-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Def Jam: Icon
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/xbox360/action/defjam3/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Strong, uncensored soundtrack.
 often-humorous story mode that stays true to its characters.
 great-looking character models.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Gameplay isn't very deep.
 feels too slow.
 lacking any sort of chain-snatching mechanic.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Mar  7, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.1
Critic Score: 7.0, 48 Review (s)
User Score: 7.2, 1,965 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: EA Games
Developer: EA Chicago
Genre: 3D Fighting
Date: Mar 6, 2007
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Def Jam: Icon plays well enough, but it really shines thanks to its crazy story mode and healthy 
 roster. 

  Hip-hop has always been a competitive form of music. Going back to the '70s and '80s, with such 
 crews as Cold Crush or Grandmaster Flash and the Furious Five, a big part of rapping has always 
 been about telling the world how great you are, especially if it comes at the expense of a rival 
 emcee. EA and hip-hop record label Def Jam teamed up a few years back to make hip-hop-themed fighting 
 games, which made sense at the time. But the first two games took the nuts and bolts of a wrestling 
 game, put it on the street instead of in the ring, and threw in a whole bunch of rappers. Unless 
 you count Macho Man Randy Savage's 2003 rap album as a success, rap and wrestling just don't mix, 
 even though the previous Def Jam games somehow managed to be pretty cool in spite of that. But 
 EA also seems to have come to this conclusion because as the third game in the Def Jam series, 
 Def Jam: Icon, trades in the wrestling for a unique fighting style, coming up with an even more 
 ridiculous and fun story mode. All around, it's a good, if somewhat simple, time.  

          The roster is mostly focused on rappers who are making an impact today, though a few older 
 guys might have been interesting.     

  The game's roster of licensed rappers is deep and varied, representing the coasts and everywhere 
 in between. The game includes Big Boi, Bun B, E-40, The Game, Ghostface Killah, Jim Jones, Lil 
 Jon, Ludacris, Method Man, Mike Jones, Paul Wall, Redman, Sean Paul, Sticky Fingaz, T. I., and Young 
 Jeezy, among others. A few nonrappers make appearances as characters in the story mode, including 
 actor Anthony Anderson, who's great as the seemingly evil record exec, Troy Dollar. Def Jam/Warner 
 Music Group exec Kevin Liles also plays a character in the story, and there's a pretty good cameo 
 from another hip-hop mogul as well. While there's plenty of people in the game, you'll probably 
 come up with more than a few omissions if you think about it for very long. For example, such acts 
 as LL Cool J and Run-DMC are still synonymous with the label's origins, but you won't find them 
 here. These days, the label is better known for its president and CEO, Jay-Z, who's also missing 
 in action. On top of that, there have been plenty of often-controversial wars in hip-hop over the 
 years, and it's unfortunate that you can't re-create some of those rivalries here. Seeing Jay-Z 
 and Nas, The Game and 50 Cent, or even Dr. Dre and Dee Barnes beat the heck out of each other at 
 a gas station would have been worth the price of admission on its own. The game has a passable 
 create-a-character mode that works just like every other EA game these days, which includes all 
 the weird sliders you can use to make your characters have awful-looking foreheads and jaw shapes. 

  The atmosphere and over-the-top story mode is the best part about Def Jam: Icon. Called "build 
 a label," this mode opens with your created character as a nobody. You defend Carver, a hotshot 
 record exec and are quickly welcomed into the fold for, you know, keeping it real. From there, 
 you rise up to become an A&amp; R man, which in game terms means that you beat people up so that 
 other people will sign to your label. You interact with characters via e-mail, which is often read 
 aloud by the involved characters. As you sign artists, you'll use your income to set release budgets 
 for their songs, which is an investment that can earn you even more money. Along the way, you'll 
 get stuck with plenty of bills, including Mike Jones' phone bill, The Game's paternity tests, and 
 Ghostface Killah dropping off of his tour so that he can go make "a video game with gorillas and 
 ninjas and s***." You can opt out of making these payments, but that's no way to keep your artists 
 happy.  

  As you rake in more money and purchase fly-looking clothes, you'll start to attract women, who 
 also suck money out of you to stay happy. There are also plenty of twists and turns. For example, 
 as the money coming in increases, things get very serious, very quickly; complete with dirty cops 
 who love to plant evidence, rival record execs who want to steal your artists, and scandalous women. 
 Things escalate so much that it becomes completely comical, almost like a so-bad-it's-good hood 
 movie. All that's missing is Master P and a truckload of stolen cell phones. But even though it's 
 all sort of silly, it still manages to feel authentic. If anything, the "white cop keeping you 
 down" tale wraps up a little too abruptly.  

          Each level has spots that you don't want to be standing in for too long.     

  It's 
 got a rock-solid premise and a surprisingly compelling story. Unfortunately, the part where you 
 have to actually fight is where Def Jam: Icon kind of breaks down. Overall, the switch from wrestling 
 to fighting is an improvement, and Def Jam: Icon is unlike any traditional fighting game. The game 
 was developed by the same team that handled Fight Night Round 3, and it shows. The fighting is 
 methodical, to the point of feeling sluggish in spots. It's very focused on fooling your opponent 
 by mixing up your high and low attacks, which can be stopped by blocks or counters, which can be 
 stopped by grabs and throws, which can be stopped by those same high and low attacks. So there's 
 balance to the basics of the fighting system, which are roughly the same regardless of which character 
 you choose, even though differences in fighting styles mean that some characters are somewhat better 
 at one aspect of combat than others. There's a second layer to the game that's a bit more stylish. 
 The right analog stick is used for grabs and for your strongest strikes. As in Fight Night, making 
 circular or tapping motions on the stick will unleash harder attacks, and you can go high or low 
 with these too. What's more, if you taunt before unleashing those attacks, your attack will land 
 even harder, often knocking down your opponent in the process.  

  Keeping your opponent down is key because you want to make sure your song is playing. Yes, the 
 music in Def Jam: Icon also plays a role in the fighting. Before each fight, you select which song 
 you want to have as "your" song. At any point during the fight, you can hold down the left trigger, 
 then rotate the two analog sticks to switch songs. Your character reacts to this motion by making 
 turntable motions in thin air. If you're fighting while your song is playing, you'll get a damage 
 bonus, so it's handy. You can counter song-switch attempts by hitting the left trigger while the 
 other player is spinning, which makes you stomp the ground, knocking your foe down. The other turntable 
 move rewinds the current song back to the beginning and causes the entire background to explode. 
 OK, perhaps that requires a bit more explanation.     

  Every stage pulsates in time with the music, and everything in the level sort of explodes on its 
 own. This usually occurs after every four bars of music, though some songs explode more or less 
 frequently. Each level has a number of dangerous spots that you don't want to be standing in when 
 this happens. A constantly burning-out car swings out to the side, hitting anyone standing in the 
 way. In the club, pole dancers whip around the pole, kicking anyone that's too close. Speakers 
 shoot out bass waves that send people flying. A helicopter whips around in the air and nails unsuspecting 
 rappers with its tail. Camera equipment swings around, lights fall out of the rafters of a club, 
 gas pumps explode... it's crazy. Because you can do a turntable move to force an explosion, a big 
 part of the game is knocking or throwing your opponent into a danger zone, then scratching the 
 song back to make everything pop, which deals a good amount of damage and sends your enemy flying 
 across the level.  

          About the only part of this game that doesn't feel authentic is the general lack of guns, 
 but they'll show up too.     

  The Xbox 360 version of the game lets you import your own music, but imported songs don't seem 
 to work quite as well as the songs on the soundtrack. It feels like the game is trying to detect 
 the beats of your music and time the explosions accordingly, but it doesn't do a very good job 
 of it. Also, to do it, you'll have to rip music to your Xbox 360's hard drive and put it in a playlist 
 named "Def Jam Icon." This isn't all that convenient. Also, the "my soundtrack" mode is the only 
 place you can do this, so you can't bring your music into the rest of the modes unless you override 
 the entire soundtrack from the guide menu, which prevents the pulsating backgrounds from working 
 properly. The PS3 version lacks this feature, but because it wasn't implemented all that well on 
 the 360, you aren't missing that much, which is unfortunate because it's a really neat idea.  

 
  All in all, the fighting system is unlike anything you'd expect to see in a fighting game. Even 
 though it feels balanced and, on paper, looks sort of complicated, it ends up feeling a bit too 
 simple in the end. Every single move is a guessing game, and you rarely get a free second hit or 
 any kind of real combo opportunity. All that guessing can get a bit tedious. Additionally, the 
 computer-controlled fighters are quick to grab you the second you block and seem almost inhuman 
 when it comes to blocking your attacks. But they've got a weakness that's just shy of being a full-fledged 
 exploit. If you back away a few steps, you can usually taunt your way up to them and tap down on 
 the right analog stick twice, which unleashes a straight, low attack. The CPU player usually won't 
 block this attack, and the taunts ensure that you'll knock your opponents down if you make the 
 hit, giving you time to back off and set up for another one. In a lot of cases, you can ride this 
 tactic for the entire fight, but it isn't 100 percent effective, especially on the harder difficulty 
 setting.  

  The solution to dealing with the spotty AI is, as always, playing with another person. Def Jam: 
 Icon has a local versus mode, as well as online multiplayer. The online works as you'd expect, 
 with ranked and unranked games. The game has a series of text-based taunts that are sent to your 
 opponent, depending on what happens. For example, if a player disconnects on you, there's a specific 
 quitter taunt. You can customize these taunts, though the game blocks you from using profanity 
 in your taunts. Considering how uncensored and full of cursing the rest of the game is, that's 
 sort of lame. And sure enough, the message that pops up when you try to swear says, "We know it's 
 lame." Great. Good to know that everyone is on board with its lameness. The online game isn't quite 
 as responsive as the offline is, which can make blocking a flurry of attacks a bit problematic, 
 but since the other player is also saddled with the same lag issues, it doesn't seem to give one 
 player an advantage.  

  Most of the game's cursing comes from the music itself. There's a lot of fantastic, uncensored 
 music on the Def Jam: Icon soundtrack, including songs from almost every one of the rappers in 
 the game. There are also a few other classics, such as "Ante Up" by M. O. P. and "Hate Me Now" by 
 Nas. But there's one really weird case of censoring in E-40's "Tell Me When To Go." The word "Hebrews" 
 is chopped out of the line "imagine all the Hebrews goin' dumb/dancing on top of chariots and turning 
 tight ones." Perhaps this is not the preferred nomenclature these days, but it's hardly worth cutting 
 out in this context, particularly when you take into account the sheer number of times that the 
 infamous "n word" turns up, which creates a very creepy double standard. The rest of the audio 
 is really great, with plenty of flavor-filled quotes from the rappers themselves during fights 
 and taunts. The game really manages to capture the larger-than-life stage personas of the rappers. 
 Hearing E-40 scream "bitch" in his own special way in a video game might be reason enough to buy 
 it. It definitely earns its M rating for lyrics alone, with all of the cursing, misogyny, and needless 
 glorification of marijuana you'd expect to hear.  

          That helicopter likes to swing around and hit you in the back of the head.     

  The 
 graphics back up the audio quite well. The rappers look a lot like their real-life counterparts, 
 and they get beat up nicely as the fights progress. The game's slow pace leaves plenty of room 
 for good, smooth animation, though some of the transitions that hook the animations together still 
 look a little off at times. Also, the animation for different characters is dependent on their 
 fighting style. So everyone that fights in the "ghetto blaster" fighting style moves the same, 
 and so on. That means you'll get a little tired of the movement fast. Characters even share taunt 
 animations. The backgrounds also look really awesome, and the colors of the level change slightly 
 depending on which song is playing. The effect of the backgrounds moving and pulsing in time with 
 the music is very cool, which overall makes it a great-looking game.  

  The pace and style of the combat in Def Jam: Icon clearly shows that it came from the guys and 
 girls who worked on Fight Night Round 3. Yes, this is technically a 3D fighting game, but you wouldn't 
 call it competition for the Virtua Fighters and the Tekkens of the world. The lack of a real combo 
 system and its heavy emphasis on move/countermove gameplay make the game more suited for players 
 who like fighting, but can't be bothered to learn any special moves. But that's not to say it has 
 no depth at all. On that note, it's likely to appeal to players who liked Fight Night Round 3 as 
 well. But there's much more to Def Jam: Icon than its gameplay. The way it handles the rappers 
 and the way its story mode plays out make it a must for hip-hop fans... unless you're still waiting 
 for some sort of Lupe Fiasco/Common backpacking simulator.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (168 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: meconate
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 6, 2009 1:43 pm PT
Review:  ICON is bound to give you some mixed reactions while you're kicking some ass in the game. The graphics 
 are stunning, infact, if you see the characters' faces during your fights, they look lifelike. 
 However, the gameplay can get dull at times if your not into steady, aggressive, brawl fighting. 
 What do i mean? Well if you're a Tekken or Street Fighter fan, this might be too slow for you to 
 get into, but if you're just so looking for a steady, agressive, brawl fighting game... well it's 
 here! But the hardest thing to say is that fans of the previous 'Fight For NY' may be slightly 
 disappointed in this.
  
  In Fight For NY, you could either play 1 on 1, a team of 2 on 2, or just simply 1 on 1 on 1 on 
 1. In ICON however, it's only a 1 on 1 fighter, so no more can you have a team-mate by your side. 
 It's disappointing but soon easy to get used to. Another difference is that some of the moves have 
 been removed and replaced. For example, you can no longer get full aggression and flip out like 
 you could do in Fight For NY, instead it's replaced by a move where you pull the left trigger and 
 rotate the left and right analogs to get your player to play the erm... "Air Turntables", do it 
 correctly and the edges of the arena will make an explosion or something will happen anyway which 
 will cause anyone near the edge of the arena to go flying! It's fun, easy to get used to and can 
 really help defeat your enemy... but it's just not as good as the agressive finishing moves on 
 Fight For NY. Speaking of finishing your enemies, no more will you have to smash your enemies into 
 a wall or hit them over the head with a weapon to K. O your opponent... well because of two reasons, 
 one because you can no longer pick up weapons (which is another shame) but also because ICON has 
 a life bar! You cannot see the life bars unless you enable it from the options menu, but basically 
 you just need to beat the crap out of your opponent untill his life bar is empty, plain and simple.
 
  
  Ok, so there are the changes, but ICON is basically saying that if you want the Fight For NY styles, 
 go buy it, this is different and its staying that way... well until the next Def Jam anyway. Def 
 Jam is a great game though, and should be played properly before being judged as the more you play, 
 the more you begin to enjoy it. What makes it so fun to play (for me anyway) is the amount of moves, 
 counter-attacks and damage you can do to your opponent if you practice enough and learn how to 
 do the right moves and most importantly, block. ICON's way of blocking attacks is to keep hold 
 on your R-trigger and press either up or down on the right analog to guard the top or bottom half 
 of your torso. If you good enough, you'll be able to block all your opponents attacks and beat 
 the crap out of him. You can even swirl your right analog to do powerful spinning kicks, or punches, 
 or whatever your character does. At times, ICON becomes really agressive, like some stages allow 
 you to throw, or be thrown into tables, pianos, windows, etc, and you can really see the realistic 
 impact it would do, not to mention that the game's objects have physics so they move around realisticly. 
 
  
  Now to top it all off in ICON, the story mode (known as 'Build a Label') has a rather good story. 
 You basically have to create your own character, and this character will go through his story of 
 how you become a nobody, to a highly paid and popular music producer. The way you get to the top 
 in ICON is to produce peoples music... and beat the hell out of anybody who's in your way or bothering 
 your music makers... yeah i mean you'll find yourself paying famous rappers and hip-hop legends 
 for them to release a goot single, which means you make some money. It's like a real buisiness! 
 Except for the fact that in the real world, you can't just go around kicking those in the balls 
 who try to wreck your career, i mean you could try, but it's not a good idea.
  
  It's as simple as this, if you enjoyed 'Fight For NY' there's a chance you could either love ICON 
 or be slightly disappointed. But if you're looking for a fast paced, special attacking game, you 
 probably won't like this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maninatrunk
Rating: 3
Date: Nov 1, 2008 5:59 am PT
Review:  Well I mean, To start off I'm pretty picky about fighting games in the first place, if it isn't 
 done extremely well, I'll probably think it sucks.
  
  
  THE GOOD
  
  
  There is some good graphics here. I mean some of the scenes where your fighting in a club just 
 have wonderful effects, light shading, and overall setting the mood or tone for the area. 
  
  There is also good music, I mean that should be a given though, if this game was AWESOME but 
 for some un-known reason had horrible music in it, I would give it a 1. Music is the entire point 
 of the game.
  
  The game does revolve around music which is only a small plus, because in the end That might be 
 it's downfall as well.
  
  
  THE BAD
  
  
  The game just gets SO OLD!, I mean I was so bored after about 10 fights, It just throws some idiotic 
 story in your face for why your about to fight a guy, and then you fight him. 
  
  The game threw in a little thing to make your own record company and sign people to your own label. 
 but that was so stupid. Before you kow it, your FILTHY rich and the only thing you have to spend 
 it on besides the Record label, are CLOTHES. You can't get new fighting moves, Car's, ANYTHING.
 
  
  Now the game-play is just the worst part about the game. To start off with, all these special things 
 you can do like when the music hits a high note and makes things explode in the game, you can't 
 do anything but get lucky to use that against your foe, and 75% of the time you end up being the 
 one getting hurt by it. Next off there is this thing called scratching, which might have been cool, 
 but in NO WAY AT ALL do they tell you how to do it! I mean you just have to COMPLETELY GUESS at 
 what you are doing. So that becomes pretty worthless and pointless right from the start. Next off 
 the overall combat is just SO repetitive with relatively no combo system worth mentioning and boring 
 light and strong attacks. I mean theres a few things you can learn as you go, but you still just 
 push a button to do it. pretty ridiculous if you ask me.
  
  
  OVER-ALL
  
  
  This game just has nothing to offer, unless your a little kid maybe. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AnalogOdyssey
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 23, 2008 2:16 pm PT
Review:  This game is a love it or hate it game... First off do you like hip hop??? If no... then stay away 
 from this game because it is all about the clothings, jewels, bling, rappers, and rap music.. The 
 game has less characters than fight for new york and the game seems more linear.... (less takedowns, 
 you cant work out, etc) so the game itself is alright.... the game still looks beutiful with its 
 light bloom effects (like fable) and has a great deal of polish (you bleed and get bruised up while 
 taking damage...) the game is an extremely fun game and should be played if you are a fan of fighting 
 games... the thing is though it takes time getting used to... The controls are hard... You can 
 beat the game in like 6 hours if you are good and the marketing system is cool to get you to sign 
 off on music singles and artists.... The game has an online component that works ok.... but once 
 in a while the game froze and crashed on me due to the games technical issues.... All in all this 
 is a great game and if you are fans of the series then buy it or rent it.... It's worth a rental 
 no matter what if you are a fan of fighting games.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lolodadon
Rating: 5.5
Date: Oct 1, 2008 8:00 am PT
Review:  after not playing the first one and loving fight for NY I figured, hey might as well try icon. 
 It must be better than the last game.... i was wrong. First off the controls are a daunting task 
 to master and even then they are hard to use. I bought the game and it sat in my collection for 
 about 2-3 months before i picked it u again and tried to learn it. I ended up liking it. I played 
 it for at least 5-6 hours straight before it started to get hard to the point where i wanted to 
 break the controller. to make it short-good game bad controls and combat system. The computer is 
 overly powerful and know everything your going to do because the delay between the button press 
 and action is so long. the only way to win is by luck. Other than that the story is great and the 
 customization is better than NY. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gizzo0316
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 22, 2008 8:56 am PT
Review:  Def Jam: Icons was one of those let downs the first two games were great. There was action they 
 both had a halfway decent storyline, lets not forget a special move. Icon's record scratchy thing 
 is your only true weapon beside throwing someone into something. your kicks and punches were only 
 ways to keep your opponent occupied until you can mess up the place enough and find something to 
 fling them into to do some real damage. Other Than that the game had great graphics, a decent storyline 
 just as the others did, a wide range of clothes and accessories to choose from and you also get 
 a really nice house. This one didn't have as many characters as the others did but its detail on 
 the ones that were in the game made up for it. this is one of those games you would want to rent 
 or borrow from a friend, but not buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Matgam
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 13, 2008 2:54 pm PT
Review:  Def Jam Icon is the third game in the Def Jam series and has to be the most memorable, past Def 
 Jam games stories have mostly been about just settleing beef and making it to the top. This game 
 is much more, Def Jam Icon's story mode (Build A Label) is addicting, fun and has some features 
 you havent really seen in games. yes its mostly about making it to the top of the charts and settling 
 beef with other fighters, its also about buisness. When you create your character you will be made 
 a music producer and in time must recruit artists to your crew, keep them happy with requests you 
 have to pay for and help them make singles and make them go multi platinum. But thats just half 
 of it, you can custimize your character with the latest in ghetto swag and the game is nothing 
 without the story. The story in Def Jam Icon is just great, it fits in with whats happening in 
 the game and the voice acting is incredible.
  The combat in this game is different than any other. Other Def Jam games have been mosly focused 
 on combos and wrestling moves and "blazin" moves, in this its mostly about the enviroment and most 
 importantly... The music, The enviroments pulsate to the beat of the song playing and you must focus 
 on the music to get your opponent into one of the hazards by throwing them or hitting them with 
 strong attacks. The controls are also different then any other fighting game, you use the A, B, X 
 and Y buttons as high and low quick attacks that dont really do much damage, on the other hand 
 you have the stronger attacks that you roll the right analog stick in different directions to knock 
 your opponent into the hazards around the area, although this does feel a little sluggish at times 
 because when your up against a stronger opponent they will block and counter your attacks like 
 they know whats coming and you will get very frustrated. DJ controls work to activate hazards and 
 restart the song if the beat isnt coming and you need to do some damage fast, although this doesnt 
 do as much damage as the natural beat it is helpful to do damage and buy you time to switch the 
 song wich also uses DJ controls.
  To say the least the graphics in this game are amazing, the gameplay is addicting and the music 
 and fighters are extremely fun to play with. This game has more to it and the only way to find 
 out is to play it. I recommend this game to any hip-hop fans and fans to the Def Jam series or 
 just anybody looking for something different in a fighting game this is a must have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: satanwershipsme
Rating: 5
Date: Aug 22, 2008 11:41 am PT
Review:  For this Ea games this game they should put last on there resamay. Don't get me wrong I like when 
 rappers slap each other but I surprise there's no guns!! But all kidding aside the game series 
 is great. but this one didn't seem to catch my eye that much. The one before this one was event 
 better than this one. I like customizing characters you know when you get to upgrade there clothing 
 and change there stats to make your character event more badass. But when the last one a played, 
 I created a character that looks like a suicide bomber dress like a gangster. I don't like rap 
 or hip-hop or event r&b but went it comes to gaming this game is one of those that make you wonder 
 what kind of talent you need to sing nursery ryhems. The game flows pretty well with the music 
 and event the little stick trick that you can do with one of the analog stick to your character 
 look like he's brake dancing!!! If they make a follow-up version of the game I will most likely 
 rent the game. But only if they put the game with guns!! get it rapper need guns to do there bidding.... 
 Just remember Country+Rap=Crap!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Taegre
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 1, 2008 11:36 pm PT
Review:  It's strange, with all the buzz surrounding the recent indie hit "Audiosurf", that Def Jam Icon 
 was passed without so much as a glance by the gaming audience. I suppose it's to be expected; one 
 would hardly assume a game advertised along the likes of E-40 and The Game would contain such ambition 
 and creativity in the disc. That's not to say the ambition was fully reached, but what Def Jam: 
 Icon achieved was a dream come true for adrenaline junkies and music nuts of all genres.
  On the surface, this game is what Korn frontman Jonathan Davis envisioned a few years back: a fighting 
 game featuring music artists battling around environmental hazards. 90% of the game's fighters 
 (and there is a staggering number to choose from!) are mainstream rappers whom you're bound to 
 know regardless of whether you know the lyrics to any song. The battles take place across a mere 
 handful of arenas, but there is so much chaos packed into each stage you'll want to see them again 
 and again. The fighting system feels strange compared to your average fighter, and there are no 
 special combos or moves, but it does require some razor-sharp reflexes and strategy to survive 
 even the earlier fights.
  Here's where DJ: I rises above being just a celebrity-painted brawler: the music is a major part 
 of the game. Each fight proceeds according to the beat of the song, and the player who knows the 
 song best has the upper hand. Attacks do more damage when timed with stronger beats, and most noticeably, 
 environment hazards are triggered with the major notes of a song. Eventually these hazards tear 
 apart the fighting stage, and it happens in some very trippy ways. Towers in the background break 
 like mirrors, the color theme changes, rooms break apart, one arena even becomes engulfed in fire 
 before your eyes! some very strong artistic attention went into the end result of each fight.
 
  That's not the best part of the music system, on the 360 you can use whatever music you want! 
 Though there is a separate mode for using your soundtrack, your music also takes effect when played 
 during the main story (trust me, the manual is lying) . Each song makes a huge difference in how 
 the fight plays out. For example, slower songs may be easier as you concentrate on fighting your 
 opponent, while fast songs have you avoiding hazards desperately while the arena is torn apart 
 in seconds. Naturally, faster songs also lead to more exciting fights, which is great news for 
 metalheads who might think this game isn't for them. In fact, the heavier the song, the better 
 the fight! This all gives the game a huge amount of replay value that otherwise might only have 
 lasted a week or so. With every CD you buy, you now have twelve more ways to beat up your favorite 
 rap artist!
  As brilliant as the music system is, the other half of Def Jam Icon's ambition doesn't deliver 
 as well. The story mode combines an amusing 90's-ish action drama with what EA Chicago was hoping 
 to be a business sim in which you lead a portion of a music label. Being the paternal authority 
 over some of the most high-maintenance musicians ever does sound like a great concept for a sim 
 game and could have added loads upon loads of replayability if done right, but it isn't. The management 
 system feels shallow with you having very minimal control over what's going on. You can only sign 
 three artists throughout the game (not including your default artist, Luda) and you can't drop 
 or change them after they've been signed. You can control their royalty percentage and plan how 
 you fund their albums releases, but that's it as far as management goes. 
  You will also very often get monetary requests from your signed artists, which you can accept or 
 decline at will. This part is actually pretty interesting since you need to balance how much money 
 you're willing to spend keeping your rappers happy vs. how much you can spend to release their 
 next album, and not planning ahead early in the game can leave you hurting for cash later as artists' 
 requests get more outstanding. Don't make your rappers happy, they don't produce albums for you 
 to mooch off of. Then again, there doesn't seem to be a real penalty for running out of money, 
 other than not being able to afford new items for your character.
  Character customization is also a double-edge sword. You can create your own character, but the 
 limitations of each slider make it hard to build an interesting fighter. There are more facial 
 hair styles than head hair, and you'll have to use your imagination if you don't want to dress 
 a gangsta appearance (the clothing options are huge, the styles are mono) . You'll want to spend 
 a lot of money on clothes and accessories, as these give a huge boost to your style points. Every 
 action you do outside of beating people up gives you style points, which unlocks better fighting 
 styles and hotter girlfriends. You'll definitely want to work for the later styles, which are both 
 entertaining to watch and pleasantly effective, like Black Panther which lets you execute a vicious 
 long-distance jumpkick.
  Management aside, The fighting system is solid and the music system and art style make it fantastic. 
 Not even the recent Audiosurf fuses music with action as well as this game, and playing through 
 a brutal fight to your own metal collection is an addictive adrenaline high very few games can 
 deliver. Of course, this only applies to the 360 version, which is the absolute definitive version. 
 The PS3 edition does not include the innovative Custom soundtrack feature, so you're stuck with 
 the impressive yet repetitive default soundtrack which is not as intense in fights as your own 
 songs. Because of this, I'd give the PS3 version of Def Jam: Icon a 7.5 for the limited replay 
 value. However, the 360 version uses Custom Soundtracks the way they should have been since they 
 were first introduced, and the replay value is limited only to your CD collection. Anybody with 
 a strong love for music will find this to be a great fighting game that won't collect dust whatever 
 your music tastes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gedz16
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 23, 2008 9:44 am PT
Review:  This game is good if all your looking for is good graphics. The fighting in this game is lame and 
 i think its bad....... When i played this game i thought the fighting and the graphics were going 
 to be all that , but what i did play makes me wish i never played at all. The fighting is horrible, 
 its so foney. Also another part i didnt get was why do you have to make record deals when its suposed 
 to be a fighting game well i guess yeah to make money, but i think its pointless you should make 
 money by winning fights not by making lame record deals. To me and this may not appeal to everybody 
 but i have to say this is one of the worst def jams and one of the worst games i played all  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lokar
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 14, 2008 8:41 am PT
Review:  This game immediately earned some points from me for the spectacular quality of its fluid graphics. 
 Things ripple, the sound is near-perfect and it offers the unique aspect of using the objects in 
 the room as either elements of the music or of the fight itself. Depending on how well you scrap, 
 the club furniture itself might turn on you. Not kidding. The line-up is exciting, with a variety 
 of artists in rap, reggae and reggaeton to offer something for many types of fans. I loved the 
 creativity, where you can tell how well you're doing by whether parts of your songs or the other 
 guy's start playing in the background. The only part of the game I found less than adequate was 
 the confusing control system. It depends almost entirely on the sticks, rather than the buttons 
 used by most fighting games. If they hadn't done that, I'd have given an almost perfect vote to 
 this title. As it is, I have to wait until any sequel, if there is one. Try renting this game first. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: demon_tracer
Rating: 5
Date: Jul 11, 2008 11:12 am PT
Review:  We'll review it in different ways:
  
  Graphics:
  
  Graphics were best this time, there was more detail on the environment and the characters were 
 looking detailed this time incredibly.
  
  Gameplay:
  
  The gameplay was NOT GOOD this time........ all the kicks and punches wee usually controlled by 
 the right-analog stick by twisting it and we can also cause explosions by using the right analog 
 stick and pressing a button. the background keeps on moving with the music and it is VERY STUPID! 
 The styles in this def jam series areghetto blasteror other stupid names, i mean come on!!!! 
 that's so childish!!! there is no gym or shop center
  
  Story Line:
  
  the story line is good and interesting this time but it is still very boring to play and pass on 
 the story mode is very very lengthy and STILL BORING...... what were they thinking this time!
  
  A game tht cud have been better!!!!!! 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: combatsoldier
Rating: 5
Date: May 30, 2008 1:49 pm PT
Review:  read this review carefully. this game has some pros with a lot of cons. the pros are that this 
 game has an innovative story line that has you actually using business and marketing skills witch 
 is actually new and loads of fun. being able to sign major artists to your label as you are a record 
 producer in this one. the problem is that the controls take a while to get use to and although 
 the new innovative turn table is a cool idea it takes away from the fighting of the game. this 
 game as much as i hate to do this you have to compare it to the predecessors such as def jam and 
 fight for new york. the character creation in this is pretty good but the lack of characters in 
 the stable is a huge dissapointment considering the last one had like 80 cool rappers and even 
 actors. even if this game had only 40 rappers instead of 20 it would have been worth it, but the 
 fighting and gameplay in the fight system is much to be desired. this one had so much potential 
 and was a huge let down. if you have to play it then rent it but thats it. go to the original xbox 
 or even ps2 version and get fight for new york and you will be completely satisfied. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MondiBlue
Rating: 4
Date: May 27, 2008 10:46 pm PT
Review:  I had extremely high hopes for this game. I came in thinking that if it could match how over the 
 top fun as the other Def Jam games, then this would be my favorite fighter on the system. I was 
 pleased that I could customize my character, but was disappointed to find that the character did 
 not resemble me as much as Fight for New York. I wish that they had kept intact the voice selection 
 that they had on the previous game. There seems to be less to buy and that is disappointing.
  
  The fighting system somewhat stinks, because now it doesn't require as much grappling and high-flying 
 jumps, but combos mixed with music. Also, simply flipping away from your opponent can makes you 
 invulnerable to attacks and the same goes for the computer. The actual fighting doesn't matter 
 as much as getting your opponent into a hazard. Even though it is on the 360, there seems to be 
 less to this game than its previous incarnation.
  
  I hope that if they decide to revive this series, they go back to the wrestling style and ditch 
 the crappy music combos. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nightmare-_-
Rating: 7
Date: May 23, 2008 12:24 pm PT
Review:  I remember seeing the trailer for this game in Eb games and screaming outJUST BLAZE!!" , but 
 when I bought the game, I was trying to re located my receipt. This game has been tinkered with 
 way too much and resulted in a terrible burnout. Lets see the review now.
  
  -Gameplay-
  *sigh* the gameplay is pretty much the same but the all important blaze moves are gone. Your stuck 
 with either a custom character with a set fighting style or a game character (T. I , Ludacris ,Etc.) 
 with a similar set style. The fighting is well.. Dull... You fight to the beat of the music that 
 sets off the various environmental elements (Cars, Hydrants, and a Helicopter tail of death) . Sure 
 , you can set off the elements you self by scratching the song but there nothing else thats extravagant. 
 Disappointing.
  6/10
  
  -Visual-
  I'll give it up to Def Jam for the beautiful visuals of the characters. They looks exactly like 
 the artist they are supposed to resemble. Also the character creation is also very top notch. The 
 many fighting uhh"Arenas?" are also very nicely made and polished (till they blow up and hurt you 
 and your opponent) . 8/10
  
  -Audio-
  I can't give a score for sound since I'm deaf so.
  
  -Online-
  The games gameplay being disappointing as it is, made no one want to try to go 
 online and play. You may get one guy trying to do it for the achievements but other than that, theres 
 no one wanting to go toe to toe with you at all.
  4/10
  
  -Overall-
  Well, playing this game for about a week and screaming Ballin countless times, I came to the conclusion 
 that this game was utterly mangled by either rushing the production or no thought at all in the 
 fighting system. Only thing I got to say this , is R. I. P Def Jam. I will be sure to Etch "Just Blaze" 
 On the tombstone, cause you been without blaze for a whole game and it killed you.
  6.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: poohman25
Rating: 6.5
Date: Apr 28, 2008 8:45 am PT
Review:  When I first got it on the very first day I thought it was the best Fighting game in the world 
 as it turns out it sucks it gets boring and once you get over the graphics and you will the game 
 is just not what its cracked up to be, story mode allows alot though but by the time you get 2 platium 
 records your near the end where you cant sell records anymore I've played through story mode three 
 times the thrid time with a game guide and still Im yet to complete it like Its supposed to ne 
 completed so screw it. and another thing why are there "NO" blazing moves on the game damn near 
 everyone fights the same this crap sucks I want my money back!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! so all fans 
 of the def jam collection this is a good looking game graphic wise but its a total let down and 
 boring and the unlockable characters are not rappers they are mad doctors and buissness men what 
 a let down to the def jam staff please stick to the basics cause yaull didnt even go gold with 
 this album bums!!!!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lilboymagic
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 8, 2008 7:46 pm PT
Review:  The Story Of The Game Is Amazing. The Clothing In The Game Is Pretty Decent. After Your Done With 
 Story Mode You Might Play It Once Or Twice Until You Get Tired Of It. I Played The Other Def Jam's 
 I Think They Should Have Kept The Tag Team Game Play And The Other Fighting Modes Would Have Made 
 This Game More Enjoyable And More Worth It. Special Like Recent Def Jam Games Had Should Have Been 
 Put In This It Really Felt Empty With Out It. But If Your A Big Fan Of Def Jam Games Well Then You 
 Might Want To Buy It But I Suggest You Think Twice About It You Might Feel Disappointed. The Achievements 
 Are Pretty Difficult To Get. The Graphics Are Pretty Good. If Your A Big Fashionista You Might Enjoy 
 The How Well The Clothes Look In This Game. But After It All Its A Pretty Decent Game. I Would Recommend 
 To Rent It That's About It. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: seker456
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 27, 2008 5:23 pm PT
Review:  a game that is great in fighting. The build a label is the best mode. you become a record dealer. 
 you sign these artist to get money and you fight over them also. you have competition so you need 
 to fight for your artist. when you pick one the other goes to the other record dealer company. 
 you fight and you get style witch attracts girls to you. you can even get more then one lol. Its 
 a good game to play. Also the multi player is good. you pick your fighting song that gives you 
 a boost in a fight. you can also throw your people into hazards like a car that can explode or 
 run into you a helicopter and even out a window. it is a fun and funny game to play. you can make 
 your own character of course and be others also like sean paul, E-40, Jim Jones, Method man, Young 
 Jezey, Ghost face Killah and even more 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mohfrontline
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 10, 2008 9:26 am PT
Review:  Def Jam: Icon is the first game of the Def Jam series to hit the 360. You start out as a homeless 
 fighter who beats up someone in a club and you get hooked up with stars and artists.
  
  Despite what you may think, the management aspect is the best part of this game. You get to set 
 budgets on new singles, help out your artists, girlfriends, and such, and completely customize 
 your character with a face, hair, and clothes. Don't forget the obnoxious jewelry.
  
  As far as the game play goes, this is where Icon falls short. It's basically a test of who can 
 smash the a and x buttons faster. There really aren't combo moves, and on hard mode, doing anything 
 special is almost out of the question. But it can be fun at times.
  
  There is an Xbox LIVE multiplayer feature, and some achievements, but I have yet to find an opponent, 
 so multiplayer achievements are out of the question (at least for me) .
  
  Overall, Def Jam Icon is a decent game that can be extremely annoying at times. I would recommend 
 a rent first, then decide if you want to buy it or not. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bool_schitt
Rating: 5.5
Date: Mar 3, 2008 7:02 am PT
Review:  I was so stoked to get this for US$30 secondhand, only to be seriously wtf-ed. Thinking the whole 
 new 'music background' thing would be cool, i was trying to defend its quality for a good half 
 of the game. But indeniably, it sucks.
  The whole concept wears off after 15 minutes, sorta like jaws unleashed. The graphics try too hard 
 to be amazing, resulting in eye-rape. The fighting is boring and utterly repetitive, while the 
 story is draggy. If you want a cool rap game, play FFNY, not this stuff. My friends did say they 
 liked the concept though, so maybe its just me. 
  In this case, more of the same fighting would be great. FFNY was repetitive, but in a 'lets do 
 this again and again' fun. On the other hand, one thing cool about Icon is the the customisable 
 soundtrack. For some spastic fun, you could always put on some metal and watch the fireworks. Other 
 than that, buy this game only if you're a rap fanatic 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dslayer1111
Rating: 6.5
Date: Feb 24, 2008 4:45 pm PT
Review:  I remember seeing the trailer for this game in Eb games and screaming outJUST BLAZE!!" , but 
 when I bought the game, I was trying to re located my receipt. This game has been tinkered with 
 way too much and resulted in a terrible burnout. Lets see the review now.
  
  -Gameplay-
  *sigh* the gameplay is pretty much the same 'cept the all important blaze moves are gone. Your 
 stuck with either a custom character with a set fighting style or a game character (T. I , Ludacris 
 ,Etc.) with a similar set style. The fighting is well.. Dull... You fight to the beat of the music 
 that sets off the various enviromental elements (Cars, Hydrants, and a Helicopter tail of death) . 
 Sure , you can set off the elements you self by scratching the song but there nothing else thats 
 extravagant. Disappointing.
  6/10
  
  -Visual-
  I'll give it up to Def Jam for the beautiful visuals of the characters. They looks exactly like 
 the artist they are supposed to resemble. Also the character creation is also very top notch. The 
 many fighting uhh"Arenas?" are also very nicely made and polished (till they blow up and hurt you 
 and your opponent) . 8/10
  
  -Audio-
  I admit, I love the music of this game. More than once I find myself screaming "BALLIN!" when I 
 scratch the song and send the guy across the rooftops with the Helicopter tail. I like the idea 
 that they gave 2 songs per artist (WOOT T. I) and I absolutley love the songs.
  9/10
  
  -Online-
  The games gameplay being disappointing as it is, made no one want to try to go online 
 and play. You may get one guy trying to do it for the achievements but other than that, theres no 
 one wanting to go toe to toe with you at all.
  4/10
  
  -Overall-
  Well, playing this game for about a week and screaming Ballin countless times, I came to the conclusion 
 that this game was utterly mangled by either rushing the production or no thought at all in the 
 fighting system. Only thing I got to say this , is R. I. P Def Jam. I will be sure to Etch "Just Blaze" 
 On the tombstone, cause you been without blaze for a whole game and it killed you.
  6.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: strandyboy
Rating: 1
Date: Feb 22, 2008 2:38 am PT
Review:  OK, the graphics are great....
  
  The rest is broken!
  
  you get a handfull of stages. which you will see 100's of times in the singleplayer. although well 
 designed and great looking there could have been alot more. The story itself is a joke. you get 
 mix tapes, and go meet people and it almost always means u just fight another random guy. then 
 you get a message on ur pda and fight the next random guy. This gets very old very fast. i liked 
 the whole taking over the clubs scenario in def jam 2, it wasnt pretending to be deep when it wasnt.
 
  
  The fighting in this game is sluggish and just unsatisfying to say the least, No blazing moves 
 to be found here at all. basically when your health is gone the next time u are thrown on the floor 
 u wont get up. so instead of a gruesome looking bone crunching move nearly every fight ends up 
 with a grab then a little throw to the floor which looks pathetic.
  
  The combat itself is rediculous, with nothing seeming like theres any sort of timing skill to it 
 and such slow movement, each fight is a bit more boring than the next. Also the rappers on offer 
 here are rubbish, no busta or DMX or any of the cool faces in rap, instead were left with mike 
 jones playing over and over. what a loadfof rubbish
  
  I loved the other 2 games but i can safely say this is the worst game in this genre i have ever 
 played. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Deth_Walkr
Rating: 6.5
Date: Feb 3, 2008 11:59 am PT
Review:  If you are expecting alot of flashy moves and fast paced action don't expect it in that little 
 bundle when and if you buy Def Jam: Icon. It just isn't there. Let's look over the game a little 
 shall we?
  
  The game is quite downright stunning when it comes to visuals. The explosions, colours and the 
 characters are vibrant and wonderfully detailed you can really see the work the graphic artists 
 put into the game right from the first cutscene. Though you will still occasionally see a piece 
 of an arm showing through a shirt here and there.
  
  Def Jam: Icon isn't to difficult to play. Once you get used to all the new mechanics it's quite 
 possible to get the most out of your chosen fighter whether it be your created icon or one of the 
 licensed characters.
  
  The sound is of course 'popping' with some new and old rap tracks. There could have been more though 
 but who's complaining?
  
  Quite frankly Def Jam: Icon is nowhere near as fun as DJFNY. The fights can be drawn out and slow 
 and the specials will be sorely missed. Not much things are as satisfying as giving your opponent 
 a Balls to the wall special. 
  
  Overall it is a good game with a nice story, wonderful graphics and nice controls. Don't expect 
 it to make any waves though. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 73Zero
Rating: 1
Date: Feb 1, 2008 1:08 pm PT
Review:  I feel that this game had many "unique" features, such as the turn table scratching. But I think 
 it is because of this that the game falls flat on its face. The controls and special moves were 
 somewhat difficult to master, such as trying to activate hazards at the right moments or trying 
 to switch soundtracks during battles. Hell, even trying block incoming attacks was difficult because 
 the joypad sequence needed.
  
  As the game goes on, the computer controlled opponents (in Build A Label mode) would become increasingly 
 harder to defeat, to the point of being practically untouchable during gameplay. And because it 
 was so hard to control your character, you'd practically get beaten up by the computer the entire 
 time... unless you just so happened to get lucky with a combo, which was pretty much the case with 
 me the entire time.
  
  Aside from my gripes, I do think this is an entertaining game. The graphics are great, the soundtrack 
 is off the hook, and the characters are excellent. The storyline mode (Build A Label) is an interesting 
 concept, and played out VERY well for this game.
  
  In the end, kudos to EA for creating this game... but they certainly could have done MUCH better 
 than this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CursemarkChris
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 14, 2008 5:51 pm PT
Review:  Def Jam Icons is the best of the series defenitly, the graphices are really crazy, they bring you 
 the joy of fighting with your favorite rapers seem real, and the ausome backrounds and playable 
 areas are really in tune with the game. Like if you slam somebody into a window it WILL , break. 
 And if you get close to a certain object itll do some kind of weird reaction that will really hurt 
 you. They also have many playable characters that Are rapers, like TI and luda Chris. so it really 
 could get cool at times , duking it out with your favorite rapers, Im suprised that some rapers 
 didnt get made about this game. So because of the great grphics the fun reactions and the cool 
 rapers. I give this game a 9. And remember whos the best gamer in the world, thats right me curse 
 mark chris, the great !!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: raddhazard
Rating: 6
Date: Jan 13, 2008 7:53 pm PT
Review:  The Def Jam series has always been great for fighting fans, wrestling fans and casual gamers. This 
 time, all that has been thrown out the window and while there's a lot of new stuff, it's disappointing. 
 First off, the idea for selecting your song before each fight, then controlling the beats using the 
 controller to inflict more damage on your opponent is a great idea but falls short due to the slow 
 style of fighting. Honestly, you never feel like you have total control of your character due to 
 lag between button presses. Gone is the variety of moves from past games and you'll start repeating 
 moves quickly. The story mode and character design mode are well done with a ton of options. There's 
 a pretty good roster of fighters and lots of music tracks. Graphics are well done also. This game 
 could've been the best in the series had the controls been better and one last annoyance been removed. 
 During the fight the background responds to the music by explosions or something spiking you to 
 cause extra damage, but it happens at random and many times will cause you to lose a fight. Fans 
 of the past games will be disappointed and hopefully EA will go back and and learn from their mistakes. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Iqen
Rating: 5
Date: Jan 5, 2008 1:54 am PT
Review:  I first played Def Jam: Fight for New York over a friend's house and I was simply addicted to it. 
 I played it over and over again and I can still play it to this day. However 'Icon' is simply a 
 whole different story. It has absouletely turned an amazing franchise into a total mess.
  
  The gameplay of this game is completely different then it's prequel, which is not a good thing 
 at all. The fighting system has completely slowed down, with slow punches and poor kicks. Unlike 
 it's prequels, the character's in Icon don't seem to have different roles in combat. They all seem 
 to fight very similarly with a very small difference. The first two installments of the Def Jam 
 series however, were quite different. Each character had a unique fighting style, whether street-fighting 
 or wrestling or many more, which were completely un-alike. It was this element that greatly signified 
 the Def Jam games to be good as they were now, but Icon greatly dissapointed.
  
  The graphics are quite good though, but it seems to be the only thing that is quite an improvement 
 from it's predecessors. Other then that, this game will only dissapoint.
  
  In conclusion, the graphics are quite neat, but what's the point if there isn't any proper gameplay 
 to back it all up? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maggon_rohit
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 8, 2007 4:37 am PT
Review:  When I saw the trailer for Def Jam : Icon , it came on my wish list , being a fan of the series, 
 but sad to say when I looked behind the mask it wasnt a pretty picture.
  
  They messed up the roster of stars so badly this time, ever since the first game I was wishing 
 when they would bring some big names in the game , like Eminem or 50 Cent. But atleast they brought 
 a good roster in the second game ,it had everything Snoop Dogg , Fat Joe , Bubba Sparxxx , DannyTrejo 
 and a lot of others but no Eminem or 50 Cent , but it was impressive no doubt . But this time around 
 they took away everyone save Method Man and Red Man who have been with the series throughout . 
 This time they put only like 20 characters as compared the 30 or so characters in Fight For Ny. 
 This was the first in a list of disappointments
  
  Then comes the gameplay . The environment behaviour is quite innovative .
  The environment reacts 
 to the music being played , and the parts of the song which has high bass leads to some damaging 
 effects by the environment if you happen to be at the wrong place at the wrong time. You will fly 
 as the gas station explodes near you or you will be swooped in the air as the tail of a helicopter 
 crashes near you , over the top but its good . But the disappointment comes when your character 
 tries to fight . Guys at EA decided that this shouldnt be a wrestling game like the previous 2 
 games. Big mistake, the fights are so slow , no over the top grapple moves and no blazin moves.
 
  
  This time you have only 5 or 6 locations where your fights take place which becomes monotonous 
 , and also the number of locations are less than they had in the other 2 games. There were so many 
 options in Fight for NY , there were locations with rings, cages, fighting pits etc. Also none of 
 the locations this time around allow you to interact with the perimeter. You could break someones 
 head on a pool table or throw your opponent into the crowd who would attack him.
  
  The Graphics are really shiny. The characters are lifelike and every blow the characters suffer 
 in fights leads to bruises during fights. Thats all I can tell you of the graphics.
  
  The Def Jam series has always had an over the top story but I've never had any complains about 
 story when it comes to Def Jam series , so the story yet again over the top but atleast it shows 
 the guys at EA did actually think about something before making this game. Our character is supposed 
 to be a guy who is trying to make it big in the hip hop industry and is employed by a big shot 
 Mr. Carter to manage the career of hip hop artists that they will be employing for their label. The 
 story takes you scouting for artists , and at any one point of time you will have 2 hip hop artists 
 from which you will have to choose one. The other artist gets taken by the opposing record label 
 and the artists of that label are your enemies. Your artists will make you do tasks like beating 
 up a paparazzi or something , which sounds a little too low for a manager of such big artists. But 
 you make a lot of money putting tracks of your artists on the market. And how do you use the money 
 ,the Def Jam series lets you buy your clothes and put some bling on your character. So all in all 
 the story part of the game is still pretty much similar to the previous games.
  
  I give it a 7.5 only because its a Def Jam game , but for the guys at EA this should be an example 
 of how you shouldnt mess up a series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: polsci1503
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 28, 2007 10:32 am PT
Review:  Many years ago I purchased Def Jam: Fight for New York on a lark. I had heard some good feedback 
 and I was looking for a fighting game at the time so I gave it a shot. I expected it to be a decent 
 game, but was totally surprised that it actually was an awesome game and I enjoyed it very much. 
 
  
  What made DJ: FFNY good was a combination of a good developer known for their wrestling games (Aki) 
 and a fun single player campaign that had you fight through a story, ultimately leading to a show 
 down against Snoop Dog. You could customize your fighter - his look, moves, clothes - and the number 
 and variety of wrestling moves available was awesome.
  
  Fast forward to 2007 and we find that EA had moved the development of the Def Jam series from EA 
 Canada (formerly Aki) to EA Chicago. Of course, EA Chicago (recently closed) was known for reinvigorating 
 the Fight Night series under the direction of hype-king Kudo Tsunoda. It seemed like an okay fit 
 right? 
  
  No. Instead of expanding on a game that was already pretty tight to begin with, EA Chicago attempted 
 to rewrite the rules to favor their experience with the Fight Night games. This is a good example 
 of messing with a formula that had worked.
  
  Gone were the wrestling moves. In its place, a punching mechanic similar to the one used in Fight 
 night was inserted along with a lame set of kicks. Each fighter in prior games also had a general 
 style that dictated what kind of moves were in their arsenal. In Icon however, each fighter is 
 given a style but that style doesn't affect the gameplay... meaning each style fights the same 
 no matter if your guy is a wrestler, a street fighter, or karate master.
  
  In an apparent effort to add something extra to the gameplay in order to make up for the removal 
 of wrestling moves - a DJ mechanic was introduced. During a fight you are supposed to "scratch" 
 like you're working over a record on a turntable (except your hands are totally empty - you are 
 "scratching" air) and this is designed to swing the battle in your favor. I absolutely hated this. 
 It felt tacked on and totally unnecessary.
  
  So we now have a boring, generic fighting game that plays significantly different from previous 
 entries. What else could you do to muck it up? How about a half-made menu system? I've seen a DOS 
 menu look just as good. The ugly-as-all-get-out menus just prove that the game was unfinished upon 
 release. And when scrolling through the different fighters in the game, why must we wait for each 
 one to load (which takes way too much time) ? It's just a menu!
  
  But it's still a fighting game right? It still should be fun... nope. It's a chore. The punching 
 mechanic is a good one and you really feel that you are brutally knocking some guys teeth out, 
 but it's boring without the wrestling moves. Sure you can throw guys into stuff, but it's not that 
 simple to execute and just not as interesting.
  
  And don't get me started on the achievements - which are just plain cruel. I don't know any other 
 game where I looked at the achievement list and said to myself "I don't even want to bother trying 
 to get them."
  
  What it looks like is that EA Chicago did a rush job on Icon. They finished Fight Night Round 3 
 and tried to pump out Icon before turning to the Marvel Nemesis fighting game they were supposed 
 to be making. Unfortunately by doing that they took a hatchet to a successful game series. I have 
 a feeling that this may have killed the series and the chances of seeing a true new Def Jam game 
 are pretty slim. Shame on you Kudo. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ken1311
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 12, 2007 7:25 pm PT
Review:  This game is not like the other D e f J a m s. The best def jam was D e f J a m fight for NY. But 
 this def jam is way different. The graghics are good.... but the game play is the worst part. Def 
 Jam fight for NY has good gameplay and good fightong. This game just has good graghics, but the 
 gameplay is completely sorry. There was a lot of Def Jams but, my favorite one was Def Jam fight 
 for NY, that was made in 2004. I really hate writing these long reviews.... why cant we just tell 
 them 2 or 3 srntences. why does it have to be 100 words. Its ridiculous.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JtAgentX
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 10, 2007 8:49 pm PT
Review:  Ever since Def Jam Vendetta was announced, me and my friends were escited about it's reease date. 
 We were always thinking of rappers and other artists that were going to appear in the game. I sent 
 endless nights creating match-ups of different rapper fights. All the wa until the game was released. 
 I was on that game 24/7/52. I beat the game hundreds of times and was the subject of every conversation 
 I started. And hen I was really psyched when they came up with the Sequel: Fight for NY. It was 
 Christmas day and it was the best game ever to me at that time. I layed that game all the way to 
 my second year in High School. Later, I pre-ordered Def Jam: Icon and finally completed it.
  
  And heres my opinion. WHAT THE ****
  
  I seen this coming becuase I saw a E3 review on 
 the Directer of the series.
  He said that Hip-Hop and wrestlig did not match. So all the Blazin moves and violent attacks were 
 replaced with simple punching and kicking.
  
  Ok, the heart and soul of the game is te way you use Music and the stage as your weapon. It sort 
 of makes up for the lack of specal moves in the game. The story mode is deep. As you star off as 
 a street hustler, you must make your way to the top of the food chain by giving rappers record 
 deals and promoting music. Some good things about this game is the way you use the music.
  
  Everytime a song hit's a specific height off bass, the result is a explosion like effect on 
 the stage. The soundtrack modes allow you to input your own songs of any genre into the game. Imagine 
 the possibilites!!!! a rock song will be deadly .
  
  Another cool thing about the game is the Create a player system. It builds up on the Suspect thing 
 from the second Def Jam. This system though, has a little bit more detail.
  
  I think they might have a fourth addition to te series. They must because Icon was a frsh start 
 to the series, though it needs a little improvement. Such as a Health bar. In this game, you have 
 to depend on the damage on the player, rather than the danger parts on the Health bars. But they 
 do brighten the screen to let you know who's about to die.
  
  Anway, this is a average fighting that is a little addicting. If you are a fan of Hustling, or 
 like to see rappers fight, you should buy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nate623
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 22, 2007 8:53 am PT
Review:  With Def Jam Icon I loved the whole idea of being a producer, signing artists, dealing with the 
 women, and all the story line stuff but the fights in the game get old after 4 or 5. The fighting 
 style was actually better (not saying these were good) but was actully better in the first 2 Def 
 Jam games. And one thing I hate about bad fighting games is that when you turn the difficulty up 
 it just screws you over instead of making it more challenging. Like when you get deep into the 
 story mode your opponents tend to block and move away from every grab attempt, kick, or even the 
 joystick kicks, its just annoying. Overall I'll say it again, The gimmick was good the fighting 
 needed alot of work. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: test65420
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 13, 2007 6:08 pm PT
Review:  The one game in the whole series with absolutely no sense in my opinion is this one. Great graphics 
 make up for the loss of an original story and some sweet moves other than the boring and ever hated 
 scratch mix. It could use a touchup, but if you are looking for a different fighting game with 
 rappers from the hip hop world, then this is your game. Other than that i would not recommend it 
 but instead insist on renting the other titles (vendetta, fight for new york) . The good news however 
 is that the soundtrack is better and you can now enlist rappers and invest in their potential (releasing 
 and making their albums sometimes making huge money) but even that wears down pretty fast. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: evil_kreationz
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 30, 2007 5:10 pm PT
Review:  well this def jam game is the best in the series. It has a new concept to it where you no longer 
 have finishing moves and combo's... this time around you have music as your weapon. The graphic's 
 looks amazing and it looks more realistic. The story mode is pretty good, it has alot of twist and 
 turns but there's only one problem the story mode is just too short u could finish it in about 
 5-7 hours or less. But it has some neat online features and it is un also. I think EA did a pretty 
 good job but theres just not much to do in the game after you are done with the story mode. I would 
 suggest you to rent this game instead of buying it ,its just not worth the money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigb89
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 27, 2007 3:07 am PT
Review:  Features
  
  It features around 30 artists, and is a much less wrestling-oriented than the previous games, Def 
 Jam Vendetta and Def Jam: Fight for NY. The game's executive producer, Kudo Tsunoda, has stated 
 that he did not feel that wrestling and hip-hop went particularly well with each other. However, 
 throws and environmental damage remain in the game.
  
  Gameplay is similar to EA Chicago's Fight Night: Round 3, featuring a focus on up-close brawling, 
 mixing up high and low attacks, blocks, and parries, and using the right analog stick to deliver 
 stronger attacks. Also, like Round 3, there is no in-game heads up display by default, encouraging 
 the player to observe physical cues on in-game characters to determine their health, such as ripped 
 and burned clothing, bruises, and an overall look of exhaustion.
  
  The developers aimed to make the music and the environment a much larger factor in the fight. The 
 environments includes rooftops, streets, and [subways] gas stations, Two Clubs, an Atlanta neighborhood, 
 BET's 106 and Park stage, and other locales, as opposed to the wrestling rings or arenas of the 
 previous Def Jam titles. In addition, the producers promised massive levels of interactivity within 
 each environment. Fighters bleed and show visible signs of their injuries as fights progress and 
 as the player's character gets hurt.
  
  The music actually effects the environment. The entire backdrop bumps to the beat of the background 
 music. Different events occur on the beats of each song - some of which are dangerous. For example, 
 a column of fire shoots up from a ruined gas station on every bass hit of a song's chorus. Other 
 changes will be purely cosmetic: hubcaps on cars will spin and twinkle to the beat of each song. 
 The developers have added more damage to a fighter's punches and kicks if they occur to the beat 
 or making a rapper stronger if one of their songs is playing. By listening to the beat of the song 
 and then timing a throw, the player can toss his opponent into an environmental hazard just as 
 it goes off. On the Xbox 360 Console, players are also able to load up their own music (Custom 
 Soundtracks) , and the game has a form of beat detection to find the beats from any song.
  
  Controls
  
  Def Jam: Icon features various controls which, used correctly, can cause severe 
 damage to another fighter. Up to four hits can be used in a combo, with a directional attack able 
 to be used as the fourth attack (but not the fifth) . Depending on the amount of damage caused in 
 the four hits, a fighter can cause an opponent to stagger backwards slightly, knock directly down, 
 or fly halfway across the venue. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: l337Bossman
Rating: 6
Date: Aug 23, 2007 7:54 pm PT
Review:  Originally looking forward to Def Jam: Icon, I found myself very dissapointed. I enjoyed the high 
 impact fighting system of the original Def Jam and was looking forward to tossing plenty of hip 
 hop artists through the scenery. Unfortunately, Def Jam: Icon struggles too hard to be cool at 
 the expense of the gameplay.
  
  One of the aspects of the original Def Jam that I enjoyed the most was the way that the blows felt 
 like they had power behind them. The sound and special effects were significant enough that you 
 would wince when you slammed someone face first into a wall. Icon on the other hand lacks the high 
 impact fighting of the first Def Jam. What immediately jumps to my mind is that they struggled 
 too hard to have realistic looking characters and realistic movement. Rather than appearing as 
 if the two combatants are fighting, it looks like two motion captured actors are facing off on 
 opposite sides of the room. Sure, the animation is great but there is not a whole lof of interactivity 
 between the two combatants.
  
  Sound wise, Def Jam features a large song selection by various artists. The idea behind the game 
 is that the music has an impact on the environment around you. As the bass beat hits, a gas tank 
 may explode or spotlights may randomly fall from the ceiling. While an interesting concept, it 
 does not play very well. You may be completely beating someone down, when a spotlight randomly 
 falls on your head for no apparent reason.
  
  The environments in Icon do not appear as destructive or interactive as its predecessor. Throwing 
 someone into a speaker, I expected the speaker to smash into bits or my opponents head to go through 
 it. Instead, my opponent fell over onto the floor and a few seconds later was tossed across the 
 room by the bass beat. While slightly entertaining, it took away the feeling of absolutely mauling 
 the other guy.
  
  Overall, if you are interested in fighting games or love hip hop music so much that you would like 
 to fight for it, rent Icon. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ajbaluyut
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 23, 2007 5:10 pm PT
Review:  In the next one if they make one they should make a two player story mode like co-op, you could 
 do team fights. anyway i don't think this is as good as i thought it would be but it's still an 
 enjoyable game with all the bass attacks. If they kept all the people from the other def jam games 
 the game would be a lot better more of a selection and they need to make the story mode much longer, it 
 was too quick to complete for me, only 2 hours. If your thinking of buying this game play the demo 
 first because most people might not like it but yeh, it's alright to me, Also if your wondering about 
 the game speed, at first when you play it you'll think it's really slow but the reason for that 
 is because it's part of the game, you have to perform a move to switch from your opponents music 
 to your song, once then you will be able to start fighting fast. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: magix2k
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 12, 2007 4:57 am PT
Review:  First impressions
  Ok, first of all. Def Jam Icon is the first game I played in the series. I've seen gameplay footages 
 of Fight for New York (FFNY) and I must say I was impressed. Creating your own character with purchaseable 
 skill/blaze moves, which are missing in Icon. It's also something I would love to see in the next 
 Def Jam sequel. Imo, it wasn't as realistic as in Icon. Sure, the background is hopping on the 
 beat ain't releastic, but look at the details put into the game. The characters facial expressions 
 and moves, background and it's enviroment hopping on the beat. Man, I love it. It even looks great 
 on my normal old school 50/60 hertz television XD
  
  Gameplay
  Now comes the gameplay. Sure, the moves are too slow to perform and it takes a while to get familiar 
 with the controls. Somewhat most of the people here dislike, because of the realism . But once 
 you get the hang of it (meaning you are ready beat the snot out of the CPU on Hard) you will be 
 ready to take this to a higher level and show your skills online. There's a mode called Build A 
 Label where you can create and pimp your own created fighter. It's a neat feature, but not as neat 
 as how you could create your character in FFNY from what I saw from the video's. But hey, Icon 
 is a realistic next-gen fighting game, so I guess the makers really wanted you to stick to one 
 fighting style. It's quite balanced if you ask me. Because if it wasn't you would prolly get bad 
 repped/scolded most of the time online an online (ranked) match...
  
  Controls
  I must say, even though I am familiar with the controls, I still have problems with right dj-stick 
 . Performing low hard punches/kicks with the stick (down-forward/backward) sometimes fails into 
 a throw move. Same goes with the counters. Holy crap, what were the creators thinking? I mean, 
 it could have made easier, just like the countering system of Dead or Alive. Pressing the RB and 
 the Up/Down on the dj-stick ables you to counter high and low attacks. Which are either critical 
 or useless online (for those who played the arcade version of Street Fighter knows what I am talking 
 about) mainly the lag.
  
  Sounds
  The sound here in this game is well done. The sound effects are clear and brings the fight alive. 
 Strikes and slams sound as they should with solid clarity. The music makes the day here since this 
 game is about the rappers. Taunt sounds are also great during matches. I love to annoy people with 
 Lil Jon's taunt ;P
  
  Features
  The neat features in this game is, you guessed it, is the scratch -stick. With it you can cancel 
 your opponents scratch move and switch songs to make you temporary faster and stronger. And most 
 importantly, you can use it and abuse the enviroment as your weapon. This scratching is new in 
 the Def Jam series and I really want it to return in a future Def Jam sequel. I don't know if the 
 countering system has been implented on FFNY, but it's handy to punish your opponent when he/she 
 repeats the same move over and over again.
  
  Replay value
  I cleared the game myself and I must say this game is imo fun to play once you get the hang of 
 the controls. It's a game you won't be playing repeatedly (Gears Of War anyone?) , but play with 
 friends for some brawling. Or if you are into pimping then the Build A Label mode will keep you 
 busy for a while. It's a great game if you like rap music and realistic street fighting. IMO it's 
 the slow version of DoA with rappers, without them booties ;D
  
  Overall score
  8/10 rating. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scat-mgduffs
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 11, 2007 6:40 pm PT
Review:  well this has to be the best def jam yet whith its clever story line and great vocie acting you 
 just cant beat it the music owns and remixing and useing the enviorment just adds to the great 
 game play i dident no wht to expesct from this game but i got my 30quids worth its ashame their 
 isent any other games like this i just cant get over how good it is the customisation is exelsent 
 from clothes to grills to the person ur useing the music bit is cool u own a labe witch u put money 
 to build up ur music empier and make more money back to buy more albums this also has a couple 
 of moment were u diside wht u want like wether u want the game or big boi on ur recorde labe and 
 wether u wana meet up wid the chick from the club or stay lo prophile and just keep to one chick 
 this game is defently worth ur cash and i would recomend it to all ages apart from over 50 and 
 under 10 lol and all my mates hated this game till they new how to use the remixing bit just adds 
 to the sheer value of the game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sean-carsner
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 18, 2007 7:37 pm PT
Review:  Def Jam comes back, but from the makers of Fight Night Round 3, with a new addition known as Def 
 Jam Icon. In this game, you play the part as a music producer, trying to work your way up into 
 an icon. But as you do so, you encounter problems such as people stealing music artists from you 
 and similar challenges.
  
  Since the Def Jam series is known for good street fighting games, EA chicago decided to change 
 it a bit, more towards fighting for music artists and for personal purposes more than just clubs 
 and making money from them. Icon also brings us a new feature, never used before. Known as the 
 DJ controls, you are able to make the level explode and try to throw your opponent into the hazardous, 
 exploding, environment by simply rotating the left and right analog sticks. The health bar has 
 also been removed, so characters can only take a surtain amount of damage. Weapons have also been 
 removed, unfortumately. And the characters in the game went more towards commercial rappers such 
 as E-40, instead of underground rappers such as Xzibit, since the previous games were more towards 
 the underground culture of rap.
  
  The mutiplayer in this game wasnt as good as we hoped but thats ok, since theres not many features 
 you can put into online play.
  
  Icon takes out a lot of cool features that were in the previous games and attempts to make better 
 content such as the DJ controls, but doesnt take it much further, unfortunately. Maybe sticking 
 it to the previous styles and adding more wouldve been better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheBurgerKing2
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 24, 2007 8:52 pm PT
Review:  I don't know why everyone is saying that this game suck it is a good game but there are a couple 
 of things that could have been better like the story could have been taken a little bit further 
 and they could have made the game play a little more fast paced but other than that i don't see 
 anything wrong with this game. Def Jam Icon is good for anyone who is into hip hop or just like 
 fighting games because the story is pretty deep and good too, and there is a huge selection of 
 rappers you can be like lil jon, the game, Jim Jones and more, and my favorite feature is how you 
 can use your environment to help you win the fight. So this game is worth a buy but if you are 
 not sure try renting it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cleanslate1982
Rating: 5.4
Date: Jul 23, 2007 1:55 pm PT
Review:  Before you read this review, know that I didn't, and don't plan to, play this game on-line for 
 multi-player. I can imagine that the fights on-line would slightly be less or more enjoyable, based 
 on your skill set and the trash talking that would take place in such fights. I rented this game 
 through Gamefly, so I wasn't afforded an instruction manual. Also, there are zero on-line FAQs 
 for this game, and the message board is about two pages deep. So in other words, the game is on 
 life support if you expect to get help on the internet. Also, those people who seem to be on the 
 message boards seem to be almost as clueless as a noob. They know how to do things, but they don't 
 know the effects. That would almost summarize my review.
  
  Gameplay (5/10) - It's extremely satisfying to whoop someone's @$$ to a soundtrack. Each fighter 
 brings their own song to the fight. In Build a Label mode, the songs that you use are either unlocked 
 or released by the artists you sign. When you fight, you want to make sure you switch the song 
 . Then make sure to keep the beating going, otherwise your opponent will switch it back. I don't 
 know exactly what switching the song does. It doesn't seem to switch momentum in your favor, although 
 I found myself get more into the game when I switched to my song. It doesn't seem to help sell 
 records either. I figured if you beat some one up to your song, then it should build up cred for 
 you and the song. Sometimes I see a difference, but most time I don't see any change. You can let 
 the opponent's song play, and you'll probably sell the same amount of records based on the money 
 you spent in production. So Song Switching is just a harder way to Scratch a Song which causes 
 the environment to explode and possibly cause you and/or your opponent considerable damage. Aside 
 from that, the fights take way too long. The player movements are really herky jerky and don't 
 correspond well with controller movements. This game could easily make a short-tempered person 
 launch a controller. Especially on harder difficulties.
  
  Graphics (8/10) - Graphics are solid. The only thing I thought was that player movement needed 
 to be smoother.
  
  Sound (9/10) - The voice acting could have been a little better, specifically with whomever did 
 the voice acting for the main character. Everyone else seemed to hold it down pretty good. The 
 soundtrack is pretty hot too, and is pretty good smacking someone upside their head.
  
  Value (4/10) - It gets a 4, because it has on-line multi-player. Honestly though, there are like 
 maybe 6 different stages to fight to and fighting just gets repetitive. With little variety, the 
 game could get old real fast. This game should get a rental first, before considering to buy.
 
  
  Reviewer's Tilt (4/10) - This game started grow on me a little, after I figured out the basic concept 
 of how everything works. Shortly afterwards, it lost it's luster. It's just too repetitive. It 
 doesn't help that a lot of the achievements are extremely difficult get. Almost every fighting 
 achievement must be earned on hard difficulty. Fighting on normal is hard enough, now try fighting 
 on hard and trying to throw someone down an elevator shaft. When and if you get that good, would 
 you want to use your time to get those achievements and play the few people who still play this 
 game on-line? Build a Label mode needed to be deeper, and the fighting needed to be a lot smoother. 
 I warn you all. This game might blow a few of you away at first. To the point you might feel the 
 need to rank it a 10. You will find out that this game only offers about 20-40 hours of quality 
 game time, before most of us will get bored with it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: adumpsy
Rating: 3.7
Date: Jul 22, 2007 12:37 pm PT
Review:  good graphics but ridiculous gameplay!!!
  good graphics but ridiculous gameplay!!!
  good graphics but ridiculous gameplay!!!
  good graphics but ridiculous gameplay!!!
  good graphics 
 but ridiculous gameplay!!!
  good graphics but ridiculous gameplay!!!
  good graphics but ridiculous gameplay!!!
  good graphics but ridiculous gameplay!!!
  good graphics 
 but ridiculous gameplay!!! good graphics but ridiculous gameplay!!! good graphics but ridiculous 
 gameplay!!! vgood graphics but ridiculous gameplay!!! good graphics but ridiculous gameplay!!! good 
 graphics but ridiculous gameplay!!! good graphics but ridiculous gameplay!!! good graphics but ridiculous 
 gameplay!!! good graphics but ridiculous gameplay!!! good graphics but ridiculous gameplay!!! good 
 graphics but ridiculous gameplay!!! good graphics but ridiculous gameplay!!! good graphics but ridiculous 
 gameplay!!! good graphics but ridiculous gameplay!!! good graphics but ridiculous gameplay!!! good 
 graphics but ridiculous gameplay!!! good graphics but ridiculous gameplay!!! good graphics but ridiculous 
 gameplay!!! good graphics but ridiculous gameplay!!! good graphics but ridiculous gameplay!!! good 
 graphics but ridiculous gameplay!!! good graphics but ridiculous gameplay!!! good graphics but ridiculous 
 gameplay!!! good graphics but ridiculous gameplay!!! good graphics but ridiculous gameplay!!! good 
 graphics but ridiculous gameplay!!! good graphics but ridiculous gameplay!!! good graphics but ridiculous 
 gameplay!!! good graphics but ridiculous gameplay!!! good graphics but ridiculous gameplay!!! good 
 graphics but ridiculous gameplay!!! good graphics but ridiculous gameplay!!! good graphics but ridiculous 
 gameplay!!! good graphics but ridiculous gameplay!!! good graphics but ridiculous gameplay!!! good 
 graphics but ridiculous gameplay!!! good graphics but ridiculous gameplay!!! good graphics but ridiculous 
 gameplay!!! good graphics but ridiculous gameplay!!! good graphics but ridiculous gameplay!!! good 
 graphics but ridiculous gameplay!!! good graphics but ridiculous gameplay!!! good graphics but ridiculous 
 gameplay!!! good graphics but ridiculous gameplay!!! good graphics but ridiculous gameplay!!! good 
 graphics but ridiculous gameplay!!! good graphics but ridiculous gameplay!!! good graphics but ridiculous 
 gameplay!!! good graphics but ridiculous gameplay!!! good graphics but ridiculous gameplay!!! good 
 graphics but ridiculous gameplay!!! good graphics but ridiculous gameplay!!! good graphics but ridiculous 
 gameplay!!! good graphics but ridiculous gameplay!!! good graphics but ridiculous gameplay!!! good 
 graphics but ridiculous gameplay!!! good graphics but ridiculous gameplay!!! good graphics but ridiculous 
 gameplay!!! good graphics but ridiculous gameplay!!! good graphics but ridiculous gameplay!!! good 
 graphics but ridiculous gameplay!!! good graphics but ridiculous gameplay!!! good graphics but ridiculous 
 gameplay!!! good graphics but ridiculous gameplay!!! good graphics but ridiculous gameplay!!! good 
 graphics but ridiculous gameplay!!! good graphics but ridiculous gameplay!!! good graphics but ridiculous 
 gameplay!!! good graphics but ridiculous gameplay!!! good graphics but ridiculous gameplay!!! good 
 graphics but ridiculous gameplay!!! good graphics but ridiculous gameplay!!! good graphics but ridiculous 
 gameplay!!! good graphics but ridiculous gameplay!!! good graphics but ridiculous gameplay!!! good 
 graphics but ridiculous gameplay!!! good graphics but ridiculous gameplay!!! good graphics but ridiculous 
 gameplay!!! good graphics but ridiculous gameplay!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jay_k3
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jul 20, 2007 1:20 am PT
Review:  I never played anything that pertained to def jam until I bought ICON. The game play is very interesting 
 and it takes time to get used to , but it gets pretty fun. If you like the hiphop culture and the 
 style, you'll like this game. The storyline seems okay, but the main thing you do is fight. You 
 have a choice of several hiphop artists, but very few songs to choose from. The game could get 
 boring, but if you have xbox live you have lots of fun playing it online. I usually play my buddy 
 who is on the other side of this country and we have a lot of fun. I reccomend this game if you 
 like fighting games that are new and innovative. If you are used to the older Def Jam games, this 
 one might not make sense at first . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Li0n96789
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 20, 2007 12:44 am PT
Review:  S0me pe0ple really like this game, and s0me pe0ple d0n't. it takes s0me getting used t00. The gameplay 
 is very different, fr0m the last tw0 games, and its much sl0wer. But with new features Like the 
 envir0nment interacting with the beats t0 the music 0f ur characters ch0ice plus the DJ Scratching 
 it helps al0t and makes the game seem al0t faster. Now there is al0t 0f rappers t0 ch00se fr0m 
 and t0 unl0ck, as well as y0u can Create ur 0wn fighter and buy him the best cl0thes and bling 
 y0u find in this game. The Graphics is this game l00k amazing, and same for the s0und 0r music 
 with s0ngs like We Fly High , Get L0w , 0r Get Back makes this game more fun to play. im n0t a 
 Rap fan but this game 0pens my ears t0 new s0ngs i've never heard 0v! n0t t0 menti0n the ST0RY 
 LINE is AWES0ME! being the 0wner/ pr0ducer 0v a Label c0mpany is great! Overall this game is great, 
 and if y0u like the first tw0 games y0u will m0st likely like this game t00. I have had s0 much 
 fun playing this game and y0u will t00 if y0u 0pen ur mind and enj0y playing the game! &gt; 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EVallette
Rating: 6.4
Date: Jul 9, 2007 9:42 pm PT
Review:  DEF JAM ICON is the third game in the series. DEF JAM is known for its street tactic fighting but 
 not this one. ICON is probably the only DEF JAM with the worst gameplay. the game has sluggish 
 controls which make me aggrivated at the game. now EA is focusing on the characters style than 
 gameplay like if the visuals are top notch. witch there not some of the clothing like the sneakers 
 are missing a lot of detail. the feature i like about the game is the creating character and the 
 customization like the clothing you can make different cobinations of clothing, jewelry, and hair 
 styles. the character creation is the exact same as Fight Night Round 3. the game is not even worth 
 playing for achievements or game that you should own because all its good for is its character 
 customization and the story mode isnt that good anyways because it lacks a lot of cutscenes that 
 explain the games story. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Links14
Rating: 6.6
Date: Jul 4, 2007 9:16 am PT
Review:  This game is a good game if you are a fan of Def Jam games and if you aren't I would rent it first. 
 First off the fighting system is ok. You use the 4 buttons and the right joystick to attack which 
 makes things kind of hard. You have strong, quick, and extreme strong attacks. You use rappers 
 in this game which is ok but it kind of dumb how ppl are fighting with baggy clothes. They are 
 raising their leg like their naked. Nobody can raise their legs and roll around with baggy clothes 
 on. You have these DJ powers which is kind of dumb. You hold LT and move the right joystick and 
 most things start to explode like they have special powers. The story made is good and a lot of 
 ppl still play this online. The only reason this game got a M is because of the music. I am telling 
 you to RENT THIS GAME FIRST!!!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: assbubbles
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jun 27, 2007 11:41 pm PT
Review:  This game was amazing! It is really fun! It is soooo adicting I mean I turned it on played it and 
 got really far but realized I had been playing it for like 4 hours! I definately like the clothing 
 store better in Fight for NY, it just seemed more LAME in Icon! Also I found the tatoo shop to 
 not be as cool, like when you wanted a chest or back tatoo it would only cover a little bit of 
 the back or chest, but in NY it covered the WHOLE thing! I seemed to like the jewelry the same 
 amount as I did in Fight for NY! Now about the jewelry, the only reason this game got a 9 on graphics 
 was because the dudes chain got stuck inside his chest, it was a graphic problem that bugged me 
 greatly, but other than that I loved the graphics! I loved the music on the game but the only thing 
 is that is was EXTREMLEY explicit and my parents HATE to hear foul language from a video game they 
 think that it is totally unnecisary in video games if it is even necisary at all. I did love the 
 fighting in this game but it was basicly the same as Fight for NY! The only thing I absolutely 
 hated about the fighting was the LAME thing that you could do with the music, I just did not understand 
 that so it really made me MAD! BUt over all I really recomend this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pete5506
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 22, 2007 11:53 am PT
Review:  Def Jam Icon is just a nother game in a chane of Def Jam games. In Def Jam Icon, there don't let 
 you do all the things you can do in Fight for NY but they do let you do other things too. Like 
 in the fighting the envioment will change and form to what music you are lising to and how the 
 fight is going. The fun part too is that you change change up the music in the middle of the fight 
 with you hand dany turn tables. Then all the cool exploshions and angles. Def Jam Icon has a story 
 line that I didnt find that good, to the fight of NY one but its still worth playing if you are 
 a fan of the Def Jam games. This game also has many people to play as, like in any other Def Jam 
 games, with that it will keep you playing. The music is good too, with lots to pick from its all 
 good. The gameplay is good, with showing blood and how the things around will change wilgh you 
 fight. The graphics are ok, I have seen better but its still good. The sound is nice, perfect for 
 all the music on the game and all the people talking. THe value is not 60 mabe wait tell the game 
 drops down to a good 40 or so. Thanks for reading. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stove11
Rating: 2.5
Date: Jun 21, 2007 3:09 am PT
Review:  This may be the worse game I've ever played. I brought this as part of a deal in my PS3 package, 
 got home and switched it on, put the disk in, within 30 minutes the disk was back out and on its 
 way to being traded in. I'm no hip hop gangsta rap fan, but I didn't actually know that the job 
 of these people is to go around beating up random people to score contracts, okay games don't have 
 to be realistic I can respect that, but the storyline on this if I dare call it one, is probably 
 THE worse thing I've played, I played some of the Def Jam games before this and I liked them, but 
 this was just beyond stupid. but this is just opinion lets look at the more suitable stuff.
  
  I'll admit the graphics are nice, but I expect that on the PS3, as nice as they are they're 
 nothing new.
  
  The game play is boring, its FAR too repetitive, even the fighting style is boring two heavy slow 
 attacks, two light attacks and a special move with turntables and analog sticks, easy to master, 
 boring to play.
  
  The creation mode on the game is good, I'll admit that, but why I would spend the time making a 
 brilliant looking character to play a terrible story is a mystery to me.
  
  DO NOT BUY THIS GAME! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: elcamino72
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jun 20, 2007 2:30 pm PT
Review:  This game is a solid fighting game at it's core. It is the best of the series so far. Being that 
 this game is based off rap artists. So it only made sense to infuse the music into the gameplay. 
 The turn table wroks very well. It works great when you throw somone in a gas tank and then switch 
 to your turn tables and throw them half way across the map. The graphics are semi-amazing. The 
 game features some good singals such as Fat Joes Make It Rain and The Game One Blood . The fighting 
 moves are very easy and would be an easy ajustment for any body new to the game. I would recommend 
 this for anybody that likes rap or fighting games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ssj3-undertaker
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jun 18, 2007 1:57 am PT
Review:  this game is a good game but its also very disappointing the graphics are awsome the fighting system 
 is good the music in it is good. the way the environments act in tune is amazing even when you 
 put custom tracks on it its still awsome i even tried some slipknot songs and it still keeps up 
 with the relly fast pace music. the fighting in its is good you get very addicted to it its simple 
 and the moves are awsome and look great being executed. the best part of this game is the story 
 made its a great story that relly pulls you in which is extreamly interesting and has loads to 
 do in it but the thing that brings it down is that it is way too short it will take only about 
 6 to 8 hours to complete. but the thing that will keep you coming back to this is the fighting 
 you just get relly addicted to it it so simple and so brilliant. in all this is a good game with 
 a awsome story and amazing graphics and a great fighting system which if that dosent sound good 
 to you should deffinetly rent. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: devonnethomas
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jun 15, 2007 7:06 am PT
Review:  i don't care wat most of these people say cause i loved the game its fun and when you get into 
 it it will have you coming back for more multi-player the is fun and the story mode is original 
 and as soon as i learned how to do all of the moves i went crazy i didnt stop playing until i passed 
 out on my couch with a soda in one hand and the control in the other so if you have the money and 
 you want a good game you should go for this it is better then most of the games i played lately 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MVfalcons83
Rating: 6.6
Date: Jun 14, 2007 12:21 pm PT
Review:  I thought this game would be like all of the other def jam games but i was wrong. It is the worst 
 def jam game i have ever played. This game could have been a very good game but it seems like i'm 
 doing everything over and over because there is only a couple places to fight in. I'm not sure 
 how this game got an 8.1 on gamespot because my friends have it too and they hate it as well. I'm 
 just playing the game for the achievements which are still very hard to get. The build a label 
 mode takes long to beat but when i'm playing build a label mode i just keep hopeing for it to be 
 over so i can beat the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tidalkr4ken
Rating: 2.4
Date: Jun 13, 2007 6:41 pm PT
Review:  Def Jam Fight for NY was definately better. They took out the awesome gameplay.. instead, they 
 have added really good graphics and awesome physics. A little too much. The fun of the old Def 
 Jam was that it was unrealistic and you could beat the crap out of the other person and it was 
 fun being unrealistic. Now, games like this are being ruined by the graphics and terrible gameplay. 
 Overall, this games is terrible and not worth the money. I would rather buy Dead or Alive rather 
 than this horrific game. THIS GAME SUCKS . This game was by far the worst fighting game ever.. 
 its definately not worth 60 dollars.. Do something better with your life. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigdaddy9
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 10, 2007 8:40 pm PT
Review:  This game was amazing! It is really fun! It is soooo adicting I mean I turned it on played it and 
 got really far but realized I had been playing it for like 4 hours! I definately like the clothing 
 store better in Fight for NY, it just seemed more LAME in Icon! Also I found the tatoo shop to 
 not be as cool, like when you wanted a chest or back tatoo it would only cover a little bit of 
 the back or chest, but in NY it covered the WHOLE thing! I seemed to like the jewelry the same 
 amount as I did in Fight for NY! Now about the jewelry, the only reason this game got a 9 on graphics 
 was because the dudes chain got stuck inside his chest, it was a graphic problem that bugged me 
 greatly, but other than that I loved the graphics! I loved the music on the game but the only thing 
 is that is was EXTREMLEY explicit and my parents HATE to hear foul language from a video game they 
 think that it is totally unnecisary in video games if it is even necisary at all. I did love the 
 fighting in this game but it was basicly the same as Fight for NY! The only thing I absolutely 
 hated about the fighting was the LAME thing that you could do with the music, I just did not understand 
 that so it really made me MAD! BUt over all I really recomend this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BlackBoxChopper
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jun 10, 2007 3:57 pm PT
Review:  Well here we go, the third installment to the great franchise of def jam. It feels like fight night 
 but i played the other 2 def jams and i think they all are even. Even if you are or aren't a fan 
 at least rent the game. The learning curve is also pretty steep, but doesnt every game have a learning 
 curve? The graphics are also a nice step up from the other 2 games, with better textures, normal 
 mapping, and the like. Even though it does feel sluggish the moves you can nail are pretty awesome. 
 Like stomping on someones face when their down or throwing them into a nice toasty fire. Along 
 with all of those theres one of the most important parts of a video game, The Story. The story 
 was awesome and it totally surprised me at some times. It started out slow you know, building up 
 your label and making choices on where to sign but in the second half it gets juicy because.... well 
 im not going to spoil it for you go play the damn game! The only let down of the story is the relative 
 shortness. I completed it in about 6 or 7 hours depending on what i was doing.
  
  Def Jam Icon is a great game but if they would increase the speed of fighting like the other two 
 and made the story a bit longer this game would totally rock my socks! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jobeesh
Rating: 2.8
Date: Jun 10, 2007 12:04 am PT
Review:  I actually wrote this for a blog not as a review but I think it serves the purpose well. I would 
 like to preface what I wrote by saying that I love games, I think violence in them is fine by me, 
 I'm not some old person looking to rip on game makers, and I'm studying game design at Ohio University. 
 With that context what I wrote should have more effect. Can games be art? There are very few, if 
 any, game designers who would tell you no. Are games art? I dont think theres a designer out 
 there that can argue that games have matured as an art form. As it stands, video game design is 
 still struggling to find its own identity. What steps need to be taken to make games art? I watched 
 a few friends play Def Jam Icon today and I know that, if games like this are made, video games 
 will never become art. Never have I seen any piece of work so senselessly and blatantly perpetuate 
 stereotypes, promote and glorify violence, and degrade women. If the game were a movie the uproar 
 related to it would surely cause more than just a commotion. At the core of all art is its ability 
 to make a statement. All media make a statement and, whether or not the creator of the media knows 
 it, that statement is being absorbed by the viewer (or reader or whatever else) . The artists decision 
 to make a statement should be a conscious one; if its not then the artist risks accidentally educating 
 the populous with some sort of false value that could have tremendously harmful effects. When the 
 artist makes something without thinking about what they may actually be saying underneath they 
 have not created art. In the game Def Jam the player may choose to play as one of any number of 
 famous rap stars. They then play against the computer or a friend, playing as another rapper, in 
 a street fight in front of one of many ghetto, inner city settings. The player uses the music in 
 combination with punches and kicks to eventually take down their opponent, presumably killing them. 
 Def Jam makes a strong statement. Its simplification of rap into gratuitous violence and catchy 
 beats is an association that has never been put into more easily understood terms. Video games 
 have a stigma of being created for children, preventing the creators from exploring touchy subject 
 matter. The designers of Def Jam seem to have taken to heart that mostly children would be playing 
 their game and made the association between rap and violence so clear that even the most dimwitted, 
 uneducated individual would instantly put together the pieces.
  The violent nature of rap has always been an issue. As gangsta rap grows ever more popular it 
 seems that more and more artists are selling records because of their profane lyrics that demean 
 women, promote violence, and reinforce the stereotypes that black activists have fought for centuries 
 to break down. Def Jam takes the most harmful portion of the rap culture, the senseless violence 
 and misogynistic culture, and creates nothing but strong ties between rap culture and its negative 
 effects.
  In a single scene I saw two black rappers fighting in a strip club, with thumping rap rhythms and 
 a barely clothed women dancing in the background. Bravo to the team of developers who thought that 
 was a good idea. There is no lesson more important to teach children than to associate rap music 
 with killing people for no reason and treating women as a mans plaything.
  Can games be art? Not with games like Def Jam Icon irresponsibly reproducing the social injustices 
 that rap originally fought to break down. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joeskates5
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 9, 2007 10:38 am PT
Review:  I love this game its so fun! some of the battles can be challenging though. And frustrating but 
 thats what really made me want to beat them. you can use the all new feature of the dj scratching 
 board and the environment reacts. there are alot of artists to play as to such as ,mike jones, 
 lil jon, fat joe, paul wall, ludacris, method man, redman, ghostface killa, jim jones, the game 
 more artists u can also buy clothing jewlery, tattoos, and even get a haircut for your created 
 character that you can take online and battle other people from across the world. overall i really 
 enjoy this game there is never a match or battle i get bored of its always fun and enjoyable. Overall 
 i would recomend this game to anyone who really enjoys fighting games and likes the mixes of hiphop 
 and rap. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rocker33
Rating: 4.9
Date: Jun 6, 2007 12:13 pm PT
Review:  This game is just TERRIBLE!! The controls are so confusing! It makes you really angry. The characters 
 are incredibly SLOWWWW, which makes the game really boring. I don't recommend this game to anyone. 
 The songs aren't that great either. It's not worth it!! It's predecessors are much better than 
 this game because it's more realistic. DON'T buy this game, just rent if you really want to play 
 it, but it's really not that fun. Once again, it's not worth it!! The new gameplay is just unrealistic. 
 The storyline is alright, but it gets tedious after a while. terrible. terrible. The worst out 
 of the trilogy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: intacomiks4
Rating: 4.1
Date: Jun 5, 2007 7:19 pm PT
Review:  The music is just the most popular songs from the past and now, no outstanding characters, the 
 control scheme sucks its just **** gay hasdiohsado h oashd aoshd oashdf aosdf hasodifh asodih sdif 
 aoshsohaasfo os ohadsfoha soad hooisa oisadohdis iohadhoasd osdaf hosdfohi sdohi ohsadf iodsohi 
 ohdaf sohiasfoh sdfha ohi ohsoha oishaohisf dohsda oh ohdisasoihdf ohaois haohisaf ohad ohsoih 
 ohsd oid ohia osadfsohad oh oashdf aos hidasdoh sd sd sd sd dssd sd sdsd sd sdds sdsd sdds sd dsdssdsd 
 sd sd d dssdsdd sd sdsd sd ds dsdds dssd dssd sd d dsds ds sd dssd ds ds ds sd sd sds dsdsd sd 
 dsds ds ds ds ds dsds sd sd ds s dds s dsd sd ds ds dsds sd sd ds dsds ds sd 
::::::

::::::
UserName: grfld
Rating: 4.4
Date: Jun 5, 2007 2:38 pm PT
Review:  im a big fan of the 1st two especially fight for NY. But this is crap its like their fighting under 
 water. i expect them to put on suba gear half the time. it is a good looking game though. But even 
 though the environment looks good IT MOVES TO THE BEAT OF THE FRIGGAN MUSIC!!! Thats so gay, at 
 least in a fighting game it is. You will probably only like this game if your a big fan of the 
 rap stars in it. oh yeah and that whole magical dj turn table is also crap just like the game. 
 so DEF JAM ICON, looks good plays terrible. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: king-of-ruckus
Rating: 3.9
Date: Jun 2, 2007 11:19 pm PT
Review:  Picked up this game because me and my buddy were baked and thought it would be hilarious for lil 
 jon to brawl with E40. Waste of a free game rental. Granted we played it for maybe 2 hours and 
 then lost all interest. The moves are redundent, nothing new happens, but the soundtrack is legit. 
 Oh and who is Tego? Heard of all the rappers but i don't even know who that is.
  
  Overall I would not play it again, even if someone explained what the hell i was doing in the game. 
 I would suggest not even wasting a free rental on such crap. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: badass5_89
Rating: 2.7
Date: May 29, 2007 6:08 pm PT
Review:  This game has without a doubt the WORST fighting system ever in any game in history. It is like 
 Fight Night in matrix slow motion. When you press the button to throw a quick punch it takes about 
 5 seconds for your character to punch. This makes stringing together good combos pretty much impossible. 
 There is absolutely no flash whatsoever in the combat since all you can do is simple kicks and 
 punches and the occasional grapple which takes forever and a day to actually do. The only things 
 that would make this game even worth playing is the spectacular graphics and the excellent story 
 line. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Flav333
Rating: 9
Date: May 27, 2007 1:46 am PT
Review:  For the Third game in the series they dramatically change the whole style of the game, but for 
 better, or for the worst? only can tell by playing this game. Some people really like this game, 
 and some people don't. The gameplay is very different, from the last two games, and its much lower. 
 But with the new features environment interacting with the beats to the music of your characters 
 choice and with the DJ Scratching it helps alot and makes the whole feel to the game seem alot 
 faster. You use the new DJ Scratching feature like you were a DJ, but when the person (or Rapper) 
 you are fighting is close to something that can blow up or can move because of the beat it will 
 hurt them alot, and it is very useful and you almost need to use it in all your fight. Now there 
 is alot of rappers to choose from and to unlock, as well as you can make your own fighter and buy 
 him the best cloths and bling you find in this game. The Graphics is this game look amazing, and 
 same for the sound or music with songs like We Fly High , Hate Me Now , or Get Crunk makes this 
 game more fun to play. Overall this game is great, and if you like the first two games you will 
 most likely like this game too. I have so much fun playing this game I hope you to &gt; 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sir_Bozack
Rating: 4.3
Date: May 19, 2007 11:56 am PT
Review:  This game is completley horrible! I mean the fact that it is actually linked to the previous game 
 (fight for new york) as a sequel should be a federal offense. the only thing this **** game has 
 to offer is the great graphics! But people are so frekkin stupid that they call a game great only 
 for its appearance! (gears of war) Graphics are'nt everything and this game doesn't offer anything 
 other than eye candy. The music control is a good idea but it doesnt flow well with the horrid 
 slow fighting. FFNY was a great fighter! it allowed you to use weapons, special moves, and an termendable 
 array of moves that are a result of you style formula. This game is sluggish and since I dont like 
 todays rap... the soundtrack pisses me off! I'd prefer a little more old school tracks. the clothing 
 options on this game are okay but it still doesnt deserve to be a sequel to FFNY. I think that 
 they should have realesed this as a halfway game, much like tekken tag or DOA 2 ultimate and hardcore 
 and volley ball (damn doa made alot of side games) . The story mode ,owever, is still fukkin awsome 
 and holds that gripping cinematic appeal that its predecessor was acclaimed for! but for all its 
 worth: BOLLOCKS! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Whirlbat
Rating: 6.1
Date: Jun 24, 2007 7:21 am PT
Review:  Let-down is how Id describe Def Jam. This is not the game I expected after playing the diamond-in-the-rough 
 that was DJ: Fight for New York. Icon is what you might expect from a developer just beginning 
 their venture into the realm of the fighting genre for videogames. Icon is to the Def Jam series, 
 what RAW (for the XBox) was to the WWE series; the only difference EA is going the wrong way with 
 their development.
  
  Props: Initially, I thought the decay of the scenery (to the beat of the music) during fights was 
 going to make me dislike the game; its unrealistic! In actuality, its pretty cool. The turntable 
 system (which allows you to scratch/switch to your song, plus blow up scenery to attack your opponent) 
 is significantly more fun than I had anticipated, in spite of making the game a little over-the-top. 
 There is also a wide variety of styles of rap music in the game, with lighter beats from artists 
 like The Game, to more reggae-style music from Sean Paul, to heavier rap like Mike Jones and Paul 
 Wall, to (probably the coolest song in the game [imho] ) a strange neo-gothic sounding rap courtesy 
 of Nas and Puffy. You can also add in your own music, which, in spite of initial reports, does 
 fit (surprisingly) well into the game, if it has significant bass lines. The graphics were also 
 up to par with what I expect from a 360 game.
  
  Needs Improvement: There arent many stages to choose from. The storyline was interesting to play 
 through once, and even the second time it was okay, but after that, theres really little replay 
 value. (I wont even bother going through to get the last achievement I need from it, Im that 
 disinterested [and Im ALL about the achievement points ;P] .) Character customization left something 
 to be desired as well. There werent many unlockables and you could afford just about everything 
 relatively early on in the game.
  
  Just Plain Bad: The attacks and fighting styles While admittedly, some of the strikes and grapples 
 were pretty exciting to use (there is little cooler than watching Lil Jon fly around and kick 
 peoples teeth out) , the controls not very intuitive. Your generic strikes and combos are just 
 like youd expect from an arcade beat-em-up, but the more elaborate attacks (and even just the 
 simple grapples) are harder to pull off. Blocking might as well not exist, as it is in no way intuitive. 
 I understand that EA was going for their own active control style in this game, but it needs 
 some major tweaking before its going to be very marketable. Also, there is no way to run while 
 fighting; something I felt was desperately needed in some situations (because there is little more 
 irritating than Sean Paul backpedaling away from you for minutes on end) . The fighting styles have 
 witty names, but thats basically where their greatness ends. You dont have many attacks in your 
 arsenal and you have precious few arsenals to choose from, so dont record your matches, because 
 you wont be pulling off any awesome fatalities in this game.
  
  Overall, I game this game a 6.1, which is not very good by my standards. If you have the itch to 
 get this game, rent it first. If you like it, you can buy it relatively cheap via online auctions 
 and stores. Its good for a couple achievement points, or just to add an extra game to your library, 
 but little more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: admiral_picard
Rating: 6.3
Date: May 5, 2007 5:33 pm PT
Review:  This game is pretty fun at the beginning, but when you start getting to the end of the single player, 
 it will almost make you break your 360. There are several glitches in the game, one just cuts off 
 the voice messages you leave people about things after a fight. There is no real way to tell how 
 or where you're going to be hit to know when and where to block, and if you don't block in the 
 last fights you'll never win. The idea is cool with the record label and all, but the fighting, 
 which is the core, is just irritatingly difficult and hard to master. Definately rent before you 
 buy this thing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Big_K-lashy
Rating: 6
Date: May 1, 2007 12:52 pm PT
Review:  For this new Def Jam, EA Chicago, the makers of the highly acclaimed Fight Night series take over 
 and it shows. At first glimpse the fighting in Def Jam: Icon does seem a little entertaining and 
 being able to control the Hazards around you with the Turn Table Controls is pretty cool, But it 
 eventually hits you just how repetitive this will get. On the easy difficulties its easy to just 
 throw punches and do a few combos and trigger some hazards then the match is won. But when you 
 put it on Hard you will see just how flawed most of the game play mechanics are, for example, this 
 is a fighting game, not a guessing game, and if you ever want to reverse any moves your going to 
 need to be pretty good at guessing to pull it off, on a few occasions you will but its not some 
 thing you can learn like on past Def Jams. Then theres the A. I. On easy opponents are of course 
 easy, but on hard they will practically reverse every time you try and hit them or grab them it 
 really does become frustrating, and just ruins a lot of the fun and a few people will argue that 
 im crap but i did complete the game on the hardest difficulty 3 times and believe me you cant learn 
 to reverse like the A. I. And a lot of people are talking about the story being good, its... Okay. 
 A lot of it is good but many of the fights seem to happen for no reason in the loading screens 
 your character is talking about talking with certain people then all of a sudden your kicking his 
 teeth in, at first its fine but after a while it started to bother me. Then theres scenes that 
 you feel should be there but arnt like they took some out or something but if this is your first 
 play this wont bother you but if you do it a few times this will of course be more noticeable. 
 The grathics for this game are pretty amazing and the soundtrack is the best ive heard to date 
 but to put it bluntly Def Jam has took a step forward in some places and a step backwards in a 
 lot of places and to be honest i think EA chicago dropped AIK [AKI] out of pride because everybody 
 knows how good Fight Night is, and EA Chicago thought they could get the same sort of result with 
 this. They didnt. And just to finish this great game off, the online mode lags no matter what, 
 it is pathetic and it was this that made me finally get rid of the game but just to note it happens 
 to everybody a lot of people have got used to it but i couldnt. I understand this review maybe 
 pretty vague but i believe i do cover a lot of the major points in the game. This game is RENT 
 only material. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alchemist89
Rating: 9.7
Date: Apr 28, 2007 10:06 am PT
Review:  For the Third game in the series they dramatically change the whole style of the game, but for 
 better, or for the worst? only can tell by playing this game. Some people really like this game, 
 and some people don't. The gameplay is very different, from the last two games, and its much lower. 
 But with the new features environment interacting with the beats to the music of your characters 
 choice and with the DJ Scratching it helps alot and makes the whole feel to the game seem alot 
 faster. You use the new DJ Scratching feature like you were a DJ, but when the person (or Rapper) 
 you are fighting is close to something that can blow up or can move because of the beat it will 
 hurt them alot, and it is very useful and you almost need to use it in all your fight. Now there 
 is alot of rappers to choose from and to unlock, as well as you can make your own fighter and buy 
 him the best cloths and bling you find in this game. The Graphics is this game look amazing, and 
 same for the sound or music with songs like We Fly High , Hate Me Now , or Get Crunk makes this 
 game more fun to play. Overall this game is great, and if you like the first two games you will 
 most likely like this game too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dopeghost
Rating: 7.7
Date: Apr 24, 2007 11:03 pm PT
Review:  the game is fun, and tough at times, a little frustrating, but i enjoy it a lot, i am what i assume 
 is most of the way through the story mode. i wish i did have more characters to play, but with 
 FACE you can make them, so thats cool.
  
  i enjoy playing the story mode, there are some cool clothes and other stuff you can buy, and teh 
 secret achievements are pretty random and cool. it's all around fun.
  
  i find playing versus while intoxicated very fun, and it's not too hard for most people to pick 
 up the basics, but if you can figure out the scratching then you sure have a major advantage. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: simpsongamer
Rating: 6.4
Date: Apr 22, 2007 10:22 am PT
Review:  When this game first came out it looked great. But i had no money to spend to by the game. So i 
 decided to rent it first. The game has good gameplay but not enough. I beat the game in less 10 
 hours it was one of the eaisest games i have ever played. I liked a lot of the options that the 
 game had like the custimizing of your fighter and the choice of songs you have to chose from. The 
 story of the game is not that great SPOILERS at the end one little thing makes your life in the 
 game go down the drain. But the replay value of the game is high. So rent it first or check the 
 bargin bin. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: armeniankid
Rating: 9.7
Date: Apr 21, 2007 10:21 pm PT
Review:  The reason i spent that little time on the game cause i got 3 days ago so i didn't get any time 
 to play lol but in the time I did I know how the game would be i'd say this game owns but I wish 
 it was faster it's more like fight night honestly but other then that the game is way to good!!!!!!! 
 so for those spectactle don't listen bout ppl saying take from me and other ppl this game is very 
 very good and xbox live with it is really cool buy the game!!! u wil not be disapointed so this 
 is why i think this story line is great about carver and troy wat kinda makes it whack is like 
 when u beat someone up there face is messed up but in the videos they ok lol but i aint gonna complain 
 like a baby its a really fun game no matter wat u do and makes u wanna play over n over the characters 
 r cool but i wanna see mnm tupac dmx again and 50-cent and members of g-unit 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kanye04
Rating: 6.6
Date: Apr 14, 2007 7:43 pm PT
Review:  Hip-Hop is a growing style of music that attracts a lot of different backgrounds and the... blah 
 blah blah its just junk. The Def Jam Series is probably a music video gone from bad to worse. Now 
 this is not to say that the series doesnt have its strong points but then again it doesnt break 
 any true grounds.
  
  When you first hear the words Def Jam (for us younger people) you think of Jay-Z or (for you older 
 people) LL Cool J and both are totally missing from the game but its no big deal becausse people 
 that have nothing to do with Def Jam have been put in instead. Once again its time to breakdown 
 this review.
  
  Characters are definetly a huge part of gameplay for the Def Jam series because they are real people 
 that have real lives and affect us. So for this installment not to have one of the people that 
 are synonomous with the label kind of makes the game feel less authentic than it could be. It makes 
 up with other popular rappers such as Young Jeezy, T. I and Mike Jones (I get the feeling that Def 
 Jam records has recieved its share of southern hospitality) .
  
  Gameplay the most important part of a game is probably the part of the game that needs the most 
 work done. I am new t playing these Def Jam games and personally I dont like fighters on a whole. 
 For the few that I have played I can definetly say this one is not my favorite. Icon tries to break 
 the regular mold by introducing a new way to play . Basing most of your movements towards how the 
 music is played and how the environment reacts to it.
  
  Their newest addition to the series is also their biggest upset. To start you dont neccesarily 
 need the music to win a match but it does help in fact every match i've played so far involves 
 the other guy having his song on kicking my ass only for me to rapidly tap buttons until he goes 
 down for the count. As to where I am up to now the game is literally forcing me to do otherwise.
 
  
  You know the saying practice makes perfect well its going to take a lot of practice to get even 
 a close to perfect. The A, B, Y and X button on your controller are going to be useless in later 
 levels as grabbing is mostly what you need to use to win. When in those small instances that you 
 do use those buttons you are countered by none other than a GRAB from your opponent.
  
  It is because of this why the game makes itself more frustrating than it needs to be. Many times 
 you try to hit and instead your blocked so you when your hit try to block only to be what.... GRABBED! 
 Early on being able to grab is tough so choose when to do it wisely and the problem with that is 
 it is need to win most of the times. Very few times will you be able to kick your opponent into 
 a hazard bot because it harder but because it takes less time if you just GRAB the guy.
  
  Overall the gameplay can definetly feel unblanced so be careful as to how to move. Move too far 
 away and a hazard will send you flying back to your opponent or move too close and be thrown back 
 to the hazard starting a sort of ping pong like effect. At first this wont happen but later on 
 it will happen all too frequently.
  
  When your opponent is in the zone its hard for you to get him out of it. Many times the starting 
 song being your opponents will annoy the heck out of you when you got beaten down 4 or 5 times. 
 Many times you'll have to keep restarting the match until you manage to win and when you realize 
 thats how you won your definetly going to hate it. Even when you do get your song to play all you 
 have to do is get knocked down once for your opponent to switch to their beat and then youll find 
 yourself having to constantly switch to your song and this can get frustrating earlier when you 
 can scratch or switch songs very well and while your opponent may get to switch songs before your 
 able to get up you will try only for you opponent to knock you down because he got up all to easily.
 
  
  Graphics in the game are definetly a hit-or-miss type of situation simply because one color will 
 blank out the screen when a type of music is played while in certain areas the character models 
 and surroundings will devastate your eyes at how beautiful it looks.
  
  Sound is the best part of the game if you like hip-hop and if you dont then you really shouldnt 
 have the game. Each song corresponds to each character unless your playing as your made up rap 
 star wannabe. The amount of songs definetly makes the sound shine so get ready to turn up the volume 
 of your t. v so everytime Jim Jones knocks someone down you can say BALLIN! The price for a new 
 xbox 360 game to me is horrendous especially when you realize sixty bucks was not worth it and 
 this game really was not worth that so wait till it gets cheaper before you decide to buy it. In 
 all honesty I dislike most fighting games so I definetly have no sympathy for this game.
  
  At first you may not agree with my review for the simple fact that I am judging a little too harshly 
 but when your far enough into the game tou'll realize everything i've said is true. So unless your 
 a die-hard fan icon is passable. It basically boils down to this: Its a game that will take you 
 one of two ways... wanting more or wanting less. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mzaher
Rating: 4.1
Date: Apr 13, 2007 8:03 am PT
Review:  I was so excited 3 months before the launch of this game, the trailers were amazing and I was so 
 upset when it was launched as I was unable to get it here in Dubai. however, it finally got here 
 and i think i was the first person to purchase it, I wish i never did. EA is my favorite brand, 
 they always come up with the best ... I really do not know what happened with Def Jam ! the game 
 is really amazing in terms of graphics and sound, but when it comes to game play, it is a big disappointment. 
 the first 2 or 3 battles are good, the more you play the more silly the game becomes. it is extremely 
 repetitive, each fight in Def Jam Icon is the same. very poor moves, all characters have equal 
 power. in career mode, you do not build or add to the skills of the player, like you do in Fight 
 Night 3 for example. when you play against a friend, you will not have fun at all as the game is 
 so easy and it does not require brains or skills.
  
  i finished it in 3 days, and now it is online on Souq. com, buy it from me! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Korage
Rating: 3.4
Date: Apr 12, 2007 6:23 am PT
Review:  The whole idea of fighting with music seems cool and all, but this game has a horrible combat system. 
 The lack of a training system makes it almost impossible to rent (unless your local rental store 
 gives you instruction mags) .
  Nothing is really explained to you. The first time I played it my character was basically a bloody 
 pulp, due to the fact that I was trying to figure out what the hell to do. You cannot just block 
 like the enemy does, you have to pull a trigger then move the analog stick exactly the same time 
 and position the enemy strikes. The whole switching/mixing records part of the game seems cool 
 at first, but then you get bored of it and realize that so much more could have been done with 
 it.
  Overall, it was a game that should have been worked on more, and at most you should rent it.
 
  That was my lackluster review. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Militarymayne
Rating: 7.4
Date: Apr 11, 2007 8:18 pm PT
Review:  its not a very in depth game but it is a good game none the less. your gonna hear alot of people 
 here saying that it sucks and so on and so forth but thats just because there comparing it to the 
 old def jam games. it is a good brawler thats worth atleast a look. even though it is on the shallow 
 side. you feel the hits land and the game looks great the scratching mechanic is really good when 
 you get a hang of it and it makes for some really fun gameplay. but the negative is like i said 
 the fighting is shallow you have high hits and low hits power hits and some throws and thats it. 
 also the online feels slow to the touch as in its doesnt act as quick as youd like it too. but 
 other then that its deffinitly worth atleast a rental. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HAMODA
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 11, 2007 9:50 am PT
Review:  Since Def Jam: Vendetta hit consoles several years ago, there has been no better series in which 
 to wage hand-to-hand combat as a real-life hip-hop superstar fighting other real-life superstars. 
 Okay, I guess the Def Jam series is the only one out there that does that. Regardless, the series 
 has always offered solid fighting games with engaging combat and stellar production values. Now 
 the next title of the series, Def Jam: ICON, is hitting store shelves. The game is the first entry 
 to hit the Xbox 360, and it makes the leap in style with the deepest and best-looking entry ever. 
 Def Jam: ICON is a great entry to the series, offering fluid controls and an awesome new music 
 system.
  
  Def Jam: ICONs main gameplay mode is the Build a Label mode. In this mode, you can create a character 
 using EAs extremely deep facial customization features, and have him build his own hip-hop empire. 
 You begin by busting heads for your boss and working as an enforcer. However, you soon will gain 
 hip-hop artists and gaining control over the distribution of the songs that they release, budgeting 
 the marketing, radio play and PR appearances for each track. Depending on how you handle them, 
 theyll garner you money and keep your artists happy. Youll also have to distribute funds for 
 handling certain damages that they make, greasing the proper palms to keep them out of trouble.
 
  
  Of course, the fighting system is pretty deep as well, thanks mainly to the great new control scheme 
 and the music system. The dual-analog system works a lot like the one in Fight Night Round 3, where 
 the right analog stick is used to perform certain moves like roundhouse kicks and strong low blows. 
 The right stick is also used as a block modifier, which can help out when performing reversals. 
 You use the face buttons as well for high and low attacks as well.
  
  The music system is a really cool addition to the formula. The environments move to the beat of 
 the music, and at certain points of the song playing, theyll make booms that will affect certain 
 areas of the stage. Speakers will pop and hurt either you or your opponent, as will exploding gas 
 pumps. Youll be able to spin invisible turntables in order to set off the stage, sending your 
 foe flying. The music system is a great addition to the game and feels right in place with the 
 focus of the Def Jam series.
  
  One of my personal favorite modes is the My Soundtrack mode. While on the surface it offers standard 
 one-on-one exhibition matches for one or two players, it does more than that. You can play custom 
 music either from your Xbox 360 hard drive, a USB device, or stream it from your PC during fights, 
 and the environments will respond as though it were the games original soundtrack, essentially 
 turning your 360 into the coolest music visualizer ever.
  
  Def Jam: ICON is a sharp looking game. The character models are almost scarily realistic, resembling 
 their real-life counterparts to a T. However, as great the character models are, the environments 
 truly steal the show. They are pretty diverse, with spots in a club, on a rooftop and at a gas 
 station. The environments pulsate with the music, tearing at their own seams as they bounce and 
 breaking down, creating hazards like falling lights and burning gas pumps to make the game a little 
 rougher on the playing field.
  
  Of course, as music factors into the gameplay in fresh new ways, the soundtrack had better be up 
 to snuff. Luckily, the score delivers, with hard-hitting hip-hop tracks with heavy baselines from 
 a myriad of artists, such as Paul Wall, E-40, The Game, T. I. and so on. The voice acting is also 
 quite well done, featuring the cadre of hip-hop artists as well as well known actors like Anthony 
 Anderson rounding out the cast.
  
  Def Jam: ICON is a solid game, as well as the best entry to the series yet. It offers deep simulation 
 features, solid controls, and great music elements, making for an experience that any fighting 
 fan would be glad to have in their gaming library.
  
  Review Scoring Details for Def Jam: ICON Gameplay: 9.0
  Def Jam: ICON utilizes the innovative 
 dual-analog control scheme from Fight Night Round 3 to give you a great deal of control over your 
 fighters moves. Also, the music system is a fantastic touch adding to the However, outside of 
 the fighting elements, the game gives you many options for expanding your hip-hop empire, giving 
 you four hip-hop artists as the single-player mode progresses to make money off of. The one downside 
 of the single-player mode is that it feels pretty linear, as you only have one way to progress 
 through the storyline.
  
  Graphics: 9.5
  Graphically, Def Jam: ICON is a fantastic looking game. The fighters bear the official likenesses 
 of their real-life counterparts, and look eerily realistic. The environments steal the show, though 
 as they pulsate with the music, breaking down as the beats literally rip them up.
  
  Sound: 9.5
  The games music system puts game audio in a brand new light, making it an integral 
 part of the action. The whole game seems to course in line with the music in a synergy that hasnt 
 been done, but definitely should be replicated. The soundtrack consists of a veritable whos who 
 of hip-hop all-stars, with cuts from heavy-hitters like Ludacris, E-40 and T. I., and the voice 
 acting is also very well done.
  
  Difficulty: Medium
  
  Concept: 9.0
  ICON is far and away the deepest entry to the Def Jam series, giving you control of a hip-hop empire 
 beyond the fighting. The simulation elements are a great touch as you can manage personal elements 
 like dating, as well as putting the right amount of your budget (and ass-beatings) behind your 
 stable of hip-hop artists to keep the cash flow coming.
  
  Multiplayer: 8.5
  The online modes are pretty standard fare. You can do one-on-one ranked matches and custom battles 
 against human opponents.
  
  Overall: 9.0
  Def Jam: ICON is a great entry to the series, combining a fluid control scheme, pulsating environments, 
 and cool simulation features for the most comprehensive Def Jam title yet. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: miiiguel
Rating: 7.4
Date: Apr 27, 2007 6:17 am PT
Review:  Def Jam Fight for New York is an amazing game, and I got real excited since I heard about Icon.
 
  I was actually scared to insert the DVD, it spent almost two weeks on the shelf before I started 
 playing it.
  Now I did, and I wasn't totally disappointed.
  The game's ok. It's quite pretty, well... it's very pretty actually. It uses the new trend in 360's 
 art - a sort of blur feeling, that looks good.
  Game mechanics ressembles Fight Night Round 3, mainly due to the use of the analogs to pull the 
 harder moves. But it's actually with the controlls that I have my strongenst doubts. It gets uneccessarily 
 hard, mainly to block and counter. I hope it'll get better, as I hope to get use to it better.
 
  It's not a pick-up and play game. You can't just invite a friend to have a go with you, for instance. 
 Is way too complicated to learn the game in a few minutes.
  Appart from the graphics, the sound (a bit obvious, as it relies somehow in music to further the 
 game mechanics) , and mainly the strong plot are the best parts of the game.
  It's a solid title, not as good as I expected though, but still a good fighting game. And 360 main 
 lack of titles is in the fighting genre. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: YoUnG1991
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 9, 2007 6:01 am PT
Review:  a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a aa a a a b b 
 b b b b b b b b b b b b b b b b b b b b b b b b b b b b b b b b b b a a aa a a a a a a aa aa a 
 d d d d s d sd sd reg h r tj s s t r hdf h df a dg sd gd gs g r yh h sf a dg e dg dsg re jhf asz 
 h dahb kuk g h ju ju j uj u ju j uj u j uj u ju j u ju j sorry about that i fing it hard to write 
 the 100 words Def Jam ICON is amazing a game everone should buy, but i suppose it all depends on 
 taste of game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: J0ker3
Rating: 3.2
Date: Apr 8, 2007 1:27 am PT
Review:  This is one of the two worst games i have recently played!! However this one is far more worse 
 than Naruto Clash of Ninja 2 for the GC; because at least for Naruto my friends and I are actually 
 playin to see what the outcome would be during a fight. Other than the graphics and sound and all 
 the rappers and would be wannabes in it, it isint worth even playing!! DO NOT WASTE ANY MONEY IN 
 BUYING IT! Def Jam Fight For New York is still WAY BETTER! Trust me. Story line is rocky to say 
 the least, and the game play just plain SUCKS! OHHH WOW i can punch and kick and then grab and 
 throw my opponent into the friggin banging sound system or have a pole dancer kick him. OHHHH that 
 is so stupid jeeze, DO NOT BUY THIS **** GAME! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wakko19991
Rating: 5.3
Date: Apr 7, 2007 11:03 pm PT
Review:  I bought the original DefJam fight for NY when it came out years ago and thoguht that game had 
 fight mechanic that were unecessarily 'different'. ICON is no different. They say it borrows from 
 Fight Night, but the responsiveness isn't nearly as good. The gameplay is pretty thin in my opinion. 
 Yoou get paged or email from people saying they ned you to protect or beat someone up cuz a signed 
 artist is in trouble or one they want to sign is. YAWN. Granted I guess I should give them credit 
 for at least trying to put a story to a fighting game. I honest have tired of the Virtual Soul 
 high Caliber Dead or Alive Fighter games with zero story whatsoever. So while the sotry isn; t the 
 greatest i will say they did try to do something interesting.
  
  The games graphics are its highpoint. that's about it. All the hype about the environment interacting 
 with the music is overblown. Elements in the environment will explode or move on big beat drops 
 and all but it get played out fast. The controls aren't the most responsive, but are generally 
 easy to eecute when they do respond. You basically have very basic punches and kick on the buttons, 
 and use the analogs to execute more powerful but less quick moves like round house kick and spinning 
 backhands. Then there is the DJ mode where you can do two things: scratch to switch the music for 
 a bonus to the damage you cause or scratch to make things in the environment explode where you 
 have just thrown you opponent. One frustrating thing was a typo in the manual that tells you to 
 pull the right trigger to start the DJ action. I spent an hour getting thrown all over the place 
 by the weakest opponent in the game only to realize on an earlier page the correct trigger to pull 
 (L) was illustrated on the controller diagram. Once this was made clear to me I eliminated that 
 guy in a few throws, but my frustration level was just getting to the point where I was on the 
 verge of shutting the game off because I seemigly could not grab the opponent, but was always being 
 beaten to the grab if we were both squared up and facing one another. I'm not certain what the 
 cause was because I was pressing the controls as indicated to grab and nothing was happening (again 
 the non-responsive controls perhaps?) I cannot say for certain because on other occaisions it executed 
 everytime I pressed the control -- I still didn't grab the opponent but at least the grab animation 
 triggered.
  
  After getting a little comfortable with the controls I went on with the game, but got quickly bored 
 with the go to aprtment, read email, fight somebody who is bothering an artist or somebody they 
 want to sign. I'm sure this line changes further in the game (i hope) , but after two or three of 
 the similar reasons to fight, I got a little bored and it seemed a little juvenile the way it was 
 presented for some reason.
  
  The environments where the fights take place are not big, but its not like the fighters move all 
 that fast anyway that they need a big area to fight in. The only problem I have with it is that 
 since you basically can really only win the fights by grabbing and throwing your opponent into 
 things in the environment (and lets be real -- it really just the background, so you'll always be 
 throwing them backwards for the most part) you will basically be throwing them at the same 2 -4 
 items in the background. Since the stages are so small it gets repetitve and boring. Artistically 
 the game looks great. the menus seem out of place since they look like something from an old commodore 
 64 game though. i dont get why thwy look that way. to me it almost makes me think the game itself 
 was some minor side project that they had the benefit of wrapping the dej jam logo and characters 
 in.
  
  in any event, this isnt the most fun game i've played, nor did it pull me into its world. to thatg 
 end the question is how entertaining is it really? in my opinion, not very. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CrusherJay
Rating: 5.1
Date: Apr 7, 2007 2:06 pm PT
Review:  WOW! I've only done one other reader review for Gamespot, and it was for Def Jam: The Takeover. 
 I loved that game, and loved the series up to that point. Know I look at the latest game &amp; 
 the series, like an old girlfriend who's changed so much, you just can't recognize her. ... And 
 it may not have been for the best.
  
  Now, up front I should point out that I've been a fan of all the Def Jam fighting games. Yeah, 
 they've all been broken of sorts, from the first one that a wrestling theme, but didn't. The biggest 
 example was how there was rope breaks, but there was no ref, and it was no rules fighting. I got 
 over it. They'd add more games, and didn't put in a control to pick up your opponent. The AI had 
 a bad EA habit of going superhuman when it was getting it's butt handed to it. Most players dealt 
 with it. Why? We loved the concept. It took rappers and made them super human urban fighting machines, 
 who settled all beefs unrealistically, man to man.
  
  That's right, got a problem? Nothing your fists, wrestling moves, and super human luchador skills 
 can't fix. Later on to make it a bit more gritty, they added weapons, which did more damage. They 
 added free for all matches, like four way dances in pro wrestling. All good, it was silly fun. 
 It gave fans who did or didn't like rap music a chance to beat the wheels off of celebrities they 
 either hated or loved. You also got to do superhuman wrestling moves straight out of the EA Big 
 series of sports games. Completely over the top and funny.
  
  So what happened to this version? Two things, EA may have felt the need to make a more graphically 
 impressive &amp; possibly more 'mature' game, and they seemed to miss the joke all of us long time 
 fans knew. No one takes this series seriously.
  
  Looking at the game now with it's stunning graphics, accurate clothing ( of sorts ) , hyper detailed 
 backgrounds, you'd think you were playing an urban version of Fight Night Round 3. Understandable, 
 it's been redone by the same people. Out goes AKI, and it's addictive gameplay style and we get 
 Fight Night's dual analog fight control scheme.
  
  The problems? Def Jam was never serious. Yes I knew DMX was never that bulked up or skilled in 
 ground fighting like he was in the first Def Jam. In a one on one fight if I could meet some of 
 these individuals in one on one street fight, I would be worried about whether or not I could physically 
 beat them down, I'd be more worried about their 'boys' &amp; gunplay. Instead we are now handed 
 the great fun of 'really' fighting rappers who still posses fighting skills they never would, but 
 they aren't bulked up or superhuman. They're... real?
  
  Or are they?
  
  The game now stresses a more 'realistic' approach to the fighting, but has you fight in surrealistic 
 enviroments that you'd think Dali inspired, or a bad LSD trip. In an effort to more tie the game 
 to music, music now plays a vital part of the game. It actually affects the background, it controls 
 the ebb &amp; flow of combat. If the music you chose to take with you into combat, you do more 
 damage, if your opponent's music is playing he has the advantage. The background throbs &amp; pulses 
 to the beat, and environmental dangers are exposed to major beats. But this is where the game really 
 runs off the rail, you can actually affect the music at any time, by magically scratching imaginary 
 floating turntables. Yes, rotating one hand one way till you hit a scratch point or using the 'clock 
 theory', then with your other hand you spin and activate your record. Just spinning with your other 
 hand, can activate environmental hazards. Wha???
  
  They thought 'Blazing moves' were silly?
  
  On tap of that, the fighting controls are completely 
 mush. Not the accuracy that the AKI system had. The biggest offense is when you try to throw now. 
 It's done by hitting up on the right analog. Sometimes it works! Imagine if you said that about 
 Virtua Fighter or Tekken. If you did, neither of those series would be up to their fifth version. 
 Also to seemingly reflect fatique in your fighter, late in fights you're fighter may not be as 
 responsive. I've read fans of the game claim it's to represent your guy's tired, like he did in 
 Fight Night. My one problem with this theory, is why doesn't the computer react more sluggishly 
 when you've beaten it to a pulp? Late in the story mode, the comp shows the fabled EA AI, and becomes 
 more tenacious, executes better, block everything, &amp; seemingly can grab thru attacks, when 
 it's down to it's last legs.
  
  The environments also seem to be on the comp's side, as the hazards go off at great times for comp 
 and seemingly wait an infinity when you back the comp into one. Also the comp has the ability to 
 know when a hazard will occur. You can learn this, but after playing for quite awhile and learning 
 the beats of the music. On the club level, it's entirely frustrating as lights fall from overhead, 
 seemingly only on you. You also can't seem to see where they are coming from.
  
  Some of the achievements if you read the boards also seem to carry this arbitrariness, as sometimes 
 they are achieved and sometimes not. Get ready to do a handful over &amp; over again, till they 
 react. Also, you're going to have to do them on hard. Why, I'm not sure. You'll probably not even 
 have the energy to go for them all.
  
  Which is a shame, since the single player aspect or 'Build a Label' is fairly interesting and will 
 hold your interest for a bit. You'll want to save your energy for it. If I had to give a recommendation 
 for this game, I'd strongly advise renting it. On easy or medium, you can beat the single player 
 in a day. For the bulk of the achievements, you'll need to do them on hard or online in ranked 
 matches. For the sake of your controllers, I'd advise you to reconsider. You might possible toss 
 the controller, because you aren't sure if it's working half the time, thanks to the broken fight 
 system. While the computer suffers no such problems.
  
  If EA is committed to going in this daring direction, for which they do deserve some praise for 
 trying something innovative, I wish them luck. The Def Jam series will be like an old girlfriend 
 you remember fondly when you knew her, but you're glad she's out of your life now.
  
  I really do recommend though that EA go get the AKI people back, make a silly wrestling game in 
 the EA Big sports vein. Maybe then there'd be an entertaining wrestling game, and very fun fighting 
 system pioneered in the intial Def Jam series wouldn't go to waste. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrnivek
Rating: 2.3
Date: Apr 4, 2007 9:32 pm PT
Review:  I guess I should have known better when I went in to Blockbuster to pick up a new game on my gamepass. 
 Thinking back It was a bad idea to pick up a game that no one really wanted, all the copies were 
 in. Usually at my local Blockbuster you have to fight for a game but this game had every one of 
 em in... First off how boring, the fighters are sluggish, the moves are sad and the whole music 
 is your weapon is crap. The music only is your weapon if you can maneuver the person in the right 
 area and what decent player or computer opponent is gonna let you do that? I was tired of playing 
 this about a hour or so later. I would avoid this fighting game there is much better out there. 
 Unless you are some hip hop fan who has plenty o money to blow on anything and everything avoid 
 this one... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nears_puzzle
Rating: 7.3
Date: May 2, 2007 10:54 pm PT
Review:  Def Jam: Icon shows so much potentai, but little flaws such as computer advantages, minor glitches, 
 online character support, and others tear the game down. The game is a bit slow as well not offering 
 much varitaion in moves or moving. The nice thing about this game is the sound and the musics input 
 towards the game with the DJ turn tables. The lack of varitation in characters moves is a downfall 
 move. There are only five different fighting styles and most hae similar moves. Sean Paul is the 
 only really original character in the game with his Capoera style of fighting. Overall the game 
 looks and sounds great, but the gameplay deffinitely grabs the game by the arm and yanks it down 
 to a lower stand point. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: star_fire_777
Rating: 6.9
Date: Apr 4, 2007 2:16 pm PT
Review:  This game is a lot of fun for a while, but quickly degenerates into a frustratingly hard-to-control 
 button mash fest. Sometimes you'll feel like you've really pulled off some nice moves, which the 
 games does a good job of when it works. However, the control scheme will probably send you up the 
 wall more than a few times with how hard it can be to get the moves to work, just because of the 
 control scheme. That is not a fun reason for a game to be difficult! The controls are easily the 
 worst part of the game.
  
  And then say you want to really play the game and get those achievements... well, get ready for 
 the fun of hard mode! Really cheap AI abounds, and it's way more annoying than challenging to try 
 to complete the game on hard. If you don't want to master Icon's awkward control scheme and gameplay 
 mechanics, then don't expect to get that many points unless you boost with a friend.
  
  The graphics, music, sounds, and environmental damage / music synchronization gameplay are all 
 excellent, however! Who would have thought an EA game would be great on presentation and a few 
 aspects of gameplay, but be essentially broken on the control / fun factor side? Oh well, maybe 
 in the future we will get both great presentation and truly fun / easy to learn but hard to master 
 gameplay, rather than a great-looking clunker. Def Jam Icon straddles that line in a major way, 
 which really is too bad. There IS a good game here, but it's way too annoying for my tastes this 
 time around. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jorge_16
Rating: 8.7
Date: Apr 4, 2007 7:59 am PT
Review:  i dont know why other websites keep bashing this game. i think its the best def jam came in the 
 entire series. its no mortal kombat or tekken or something like that but its definatley a fun game. 
 if u liked fight night round 3 then you'll have no reason to not like this game cause its almost 
 the same concept. its pretty easy to pick up and play. the music is great and fighters are good 
 too. and u cant argue about the graphics, theyre pretty much some of the best graphics ever made 
 for the 360. now with all that said there is room for improvement. the fighting could use some 
 variety. the mechanics couldnt be more straight forward. its just high attacks and low attacks, 
 thats it. there is no real combo system and the grapple attacks are to easy. im sure theyll make 
 another def jam game, and when they do they should take everything good anout this game and improve 
 the fighting system. if u liked fight night round 3 then youll like this game just the same. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lvin5992
Rating: 8.2
Date: Apr 3, 2007 6:11 pm PT
Review:  Story: This is the third Def Jam game in EA's series and the game does hold up with the previous 
 game's great story line. For one minute every thing in your created character's life is going perfectly, 
 before you know it your world will go upside down. And there are incredible twists that keep the 
 game's story fresh. The only problem with the story is that it doesn't last real long but the achievements 
 will have you coming back at least 3 times.
  
  Gameplay: The game is has an all new game play system that mirrors the Fight Night franchise. But 
 the problem is that game play online is a little slow like most of EA games. The all new DJ controls 
 add a lot of fun to the game play by being able to trigger big beats by holding the L trigger and 
 spinning the right joy stick. Or switching the whole song by holding the L trigger then spinning 
 the left joy stick until your character's other hand raises then you spin the right joy stick. 
 But over all the game play can be slow.
  
  Sound: Great sound and is the key to the game play. Most of the fighter's have their own song in 
 the game and they sound perfect and not at all like just video game music. The music in fights 
 can be a third person in the action causing hazards in levels of the fights to go off from big 
 beats. Like a big beat causing a car to spin or speakers shooting out some extra base to get an 
 opponent flying.
  
  Graphics: The real highlight of the game. Each of the rappers in the game had their faces laser 
 scanned so each rapper's face is incredibly accurate from every pore. And for the created character 
 you make can look exactly the way you want him to look so no two people will look alike. The environments 
 look very good and every detail is just perfectly done. This game in my opinion is one of the best 
 looking 360 games with real people and environments.
  
  The Good: Great graphics that show what the Xbox 360 can do. Crisp clear sound, 2 members of the 
 Wu Tang Clan, good selection of clothing and jewelry and a real good story.
  
  The Bad: No old school rappers, short story, slow online play, sorta slow off line play. The hood 
 hang outs have no speech, not a challenge for experienced players and doesn't hold up to Fight 
 for New York's game play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nellyfan21
Rating: 8.4
Date: Apr 3, 2007 5:22 pm PT
Review:  I'm all about a good story mode on most games. I felt that this game could defenately been better 
 in this aspect. Everything is done through your computer. There are few cutscenes or story driven 
 moments. It's all pretty much, someone disses you, you beat him up, Next! I was a little disappointed 
 in that. Also, the fight mechanics were too simplistic. There aren't enough combos or attacks you 
 can pull off. It's all about grabbing your opponent and throwing him into some sort of hazard. 
 It gets old after a while. Other than that, however, I felt that the game was pretty fun. The online 
 playability is nice. I wish the previous one had it too (I was much better at that one) . The graphics 
 are beautiful and the sound is awesome. Lots of great music on this game. The player-create mechanics 
 are really detailed too. You can change virtually anything about your character's face. The whole 
 new music controls are a nice touch. They are your most efficient weapon against your opponent. 
 All in all, it's a descent game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: death_burnout
Rating: 6.6
Date: Apr 3, 2007 2:22 pm PT
Review:  The Good: Spectacular visuals; a good representation of rap culture; awesome soundtrack; excellent 
 player models, the rappers look like their real-life counterparts; great story line
  
  The Bad: Not enough content for a $60 price tag; lack of customisation options; main story mode 
 lacks enough depth; the radical change in the series can be off putting at first; the My Custom 
 Soundtrack feature doesnt work as well as it should.
  
  
  
  It wouldnt come as any surprise that 
 the Def Jam series would eventually try to reinvent it self along its illustrious career, and rightly 
 so, since most music artists would do the same in some form or other in their career, whats important 
 to remember however, is that sometimes, a look or trend doesnt always need to change, some styles 
 should always remain on the same basic premise that they originally had. Unfortunately some things 
 change regardless of its past, and the old term if it aint broken, dont fix it comes to mind 
 within seconds. Def Jam: ICON is a perfect, and yet horrid example of this. The first Def Jam game, 
 Def Jam Vendetta, was an instant classic, and its unforgettable sequel Def Jam: Fight For NY 
 was adored by many, many fans. So, with a fan base that strong, why would EA decide to drop change 
 it almost entirely? Sadly that question is never going to be answered properly.
  
  But what we do know is that Def Jam: ICON has a much radical change in pace and action compared 
 to its predecessors, the whole idea of rappers fighting is still intact, but the way they fight, 
 is considerably different. Its more of a slow and methodical, straight forward fighting game, compared 
 to its wrestling roots at the hands of the AKI corporation, its all based on high and low attacks, 
 allowing extensive 4 hit combos, and blocking and throwing. Thats all very well said, but the 
 one final ingredient thats thrown in, is moving environments, according to which track you choose 
 prior to the fight, the environment beats along with the music, and once every 4 bars, something 
 huge will happen, youll see gas station pumps blowing up, low-riders swerving out and even the 
 tail of helicopter will try to take you down, the whole idea is to get your opponent around these 
 environmental hazards just in time for the big beat that triggers these hazards off, or, you 
 can hurl your opponent over in the direction of the hazard and perform a DJ Turntable move, by 
 holding down the left trigger and rotating the right analogue stick and trigger off the hazards 
 your self. They do a whole lot of damage to your opponent and are key to victory, however, doing 
 this one thing over and over can be highly repetitive and unless you take advantage of all the 
 moves at your disposal, you will soon be bored. That said, depending on which track you chose before 
 the fight, greatly changes the pace, so choosing a track that you know the beats to, will most 
 definitely improve you chances of winning, but your opponent will also have a track of their own, 
 switching tracks is very similar to setting off an environmental hazard, except this time the left 
 analogue stick is rotated first and the right stick is then rotated consequentially, not only does 
 the entire light scheme change, but your attacks will do more damage if your track is playing, 
 so switching tracks frantically is going to happen. But still, even all of that is not the Def 
 Jam we know and love, having the environment moving all the time is extremely off putting and for 
 the most part looks stupid, using the unconventional hazards is extremely repetitive, and the overall 
 fighting is just far too slow.
  
  In terms of value, Def Jam: ICON sinks below average, there simply isnt enough bang for your buck 
 so to speak, there are 2 main modes, Build-a-label mode (story) , Throwdown (exhibition) , there are 
 2 other so called modes but theyre pretty much a waste of space, one in particular is the My 
 Custom Soundtrackmode, which should have gone in the game modes section, nevertheless the mode 
 is a normal average fight, but to your music, there are 2 different ways of doing this, simply 
 by using the guide button to access the music track you want, or by using a newly created Def Jam 
 playlist, whilst it is a novelty to have the utmost unlikely song playing in the background, the 
 game finds it very hard to detect the beats to perfection, only leaving it messy and out of control. 
 The other 2 modes in game modes are practice and fight with bass, practice is essentially practice, 
 but fight with bass is a little more interesting, you cant trigger the environmental hazards yourself 
 so knowing the songs beats exactly is crucial, the hazards will do far more damage than usual, 
 but then again, this mode just reeks last minute decision and is not entirely enticing by any means. 
 There is character creation however, aptly name F. A. C. E, you can create your own rap star using 
 the famous Fight Night analogue controls to fine tune certain parts of the face, sadly however, 
 the fine tuning here is not as in depth nor particularly well done as the FN games, one of the 
 strange things you will notice, is no matter what the skin tone, the character will always sound 
 African American, it seems a little odd that no option was made for voice customisation, and again, 
 there simply is not enough actual content and customisation in the game. A great example of this 
 is the clothing options for your character, for one thing there is a strange low amount of designer 
 threads, and with a company like EA one can only imagine why that is, for the most part, all the 
 clothes such as caps, tank tops and light jackets are just mere colour changes, theres no brands, 
 no uniqueness, its just rehashed items of clothing, something DJ: FFNY didnt do. On the jewellery 
 sides of things, its a little better, you will find far more unique stuff, but the amount of jewellery 
 is startlingly low.
  
  If hardly any customisation and modes wasnt enough, the game has very little arenas, with only 
 8 total, one might feel a little ripped off considering that previous Def Jam games had at least 
 double that amount. The arenas dont exactly react like you would expect them to, instead of the 
 realistic damage the series is known for, stuff just jumbles up like a jigsaw puzzle, which looks 
 ridiculous, and there are no weapons either, music is your weapon this time round, and thats fine, 
 but we all know that theres nothing better than taking a bottle to someones face in a fight.
 
  
  With all of that lack of content, theres only one saving grace Def Jam: ICON has and thats its 
 story mode, Build-A-Label. As the mode says, your main job is to build a record label and get rich 
 using your created character, you get noticed by a long-time producer named Curtis Carver who 
 sees potential in you to become a label manger, and without a guess, you run in to some trouble 
 along the way. The story is dramatic and well written enough for you to keep playing and it also 
 features a great cast and great voice acting from Anthony Anderson and all the rappers, whats 
 not so great about Build-A-Label mode, is that its not as fleshed out as it could be, your main 
 goal (managing artists) just doesnt have enough depth as it should do, every once and a while 
 you are given the choice to decide which rapper you want to recruit, you fight, then check your 
 inbox for messages, you fight, and again, check your inbox for a ton of messages, thats all there 
 is to it, theres simply not enough progression, and you feel as if you are just fighting over 
 and over to unravel the story some more and for your artists to release new songs for you to manage. 
 This basic formula is enough to drive you insane since its so repetitive and boring, and its frustrating 
 to have such a good story ruined by such monotonous gameplay.
  
  The game is however, graphically impressive, and its clear that EA Chicago have worked on this 
 game, because they have left their superb graphical mark as always. The graphics bare great resemblance 
 to the recent Fight Night Round 3 and thats a good thing, the player models look especially 
 good, all of the rappers in the superb roster look like their real life counterparts and animate 
 perfectly to hits and throws, and get bruised and banged up really well, theres is a bit of clipping 
 here and there with the jewellery and baggy clothing, but other than that, its spot on. The special 
 effects in the environments also look brilliant, the flames for example look so real you can almost 
 feel the heat, explosions and electricity all look spectacular. Of course, the game does have its 
 blemishes, one of which relates to the clipping problems with clothing, the objects situated around 
 the arena will often clip right through the floor and the physics in general are very erratic and 
 messy.
  
  The sound effects are additionally just as good as the graphics, even though the music overhauls 
 the sound effects no matter what sound set up you have choose in the options menu, the sounds of 
 a punch to the face followed by a kick to the gut sound awesome. Being a game all about rap, theres 
 not shortage of rap tracks, and the soundtrack is brilliant, EA have done a lot better with the 
 soundtrack this time round, within the 29 tracks you can expect to see music from Lil John (yes, 
 Get Low is in there) The Game, Ludacris, Sean Paul and even E-40. The soundtrack really says something 
 about the way the game handles rap culture, not only in the form of music, but in general, the 
 game has top notch sense of style, something DJ: FFNY didnt do.
  
  Most of the achievements for Def Jam: Icon are based around using the hazards to knock out your 
 opponent online or offline, some of them are tied into the Build-A-Label as well, going multi-platinum, 
 for example is one of the harder ones, though going gold is one of the easier ones. Overall the 
 achievements are nothing too special, but they do offer a challenge for anyone who wants to take 
 them on.
  
  Def Jam: ICON is at most, very undesirable, boring and repetitive, though it does have amazing 
 graphics and an awesome soundtrack, that isnt enough to save it from feeling rushed and stretched 
 out, and unless you adore rap culture to the fullest, then Def Jam ICON simply isnt for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lazy-Kingdom
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 3, 2007 6:49 am PT
Review:  Since Def Jam: Vendetta hit consoles several years ago, there has been no better series in which 
 to wage hand-to-hand combat as a real-life hip-hop superstar fighting other real-life superstars. 
 Okay, I guess the Def Jam series is the only one out there that does that. Regardless, the series 
 has always offered solid fighting games with engaging combat and stellar production values. Now 
 the next title of the series, Def Jam: ICON, is hitting store shelves. The game is the first entry 
 to hit the Xbox 360, and it makes the leap in style with the deepest and best-looking entry ever. 
 Def Jam: ICON is a great entry to the series, offering fluid controls and an awesome new music 
 system.
  
  
  Def Jam: ICONs main gameplay mode is the Build a Label mode. In this mode, you can create a character 
 using EAs extremely deep facial customization features, and have him build his own hip-hop empire. 
 You begin by busting heads for your boss and working as an enforcer. However, you soon will gain 
 hip-hop artists and gaining control over the distribution of the songs that they release, budgeting 
 the marketing, radio play and PR appearances for each track. Depending on how you handle them, 
 theyll garner you money and keep your artists happy. Youll also have to distribute funds for 
 handling certain damages that they make, greasing the proper palms to keep them out of trouble.
 
  
  Of course, the fighting system is pretty deep as well, thanks mainly to the great new control scheme 
 and the music system. The dual-analog system works a lot like the one in Fight Night Round 3, where 
 the right analog stick is used to perform certain moves like roundhouse kicks and strong low blows. 
 The right stick is also used as a block modifier, which can help out when performing reversals. 
 You use the face buttons as well for high and low attacks as well.
  
  
  The music system is a really cool addition to the formula. The environments move to the beat of 
 the music, and at certain points of the song playing, theyll make booms that will affect certain 
 areas of the stage. Speakers will pop and hurt either you or your opponent, as will exploding gas 
 pumps. Youll be able to spin invisible turntables in order to set off the stage, sending your 
 foe flying. The music system is a great addition to the game and feels right in place with the 
 focus of the Def Jam series.
  
  One of my personal favorite modes is the My Soundtrack mode. While on the surface it offers standard 
 one-on-one exhibition matches for one or two players, it does more than that. You can play custom 
 music either from your Xbox 360 hard drive, a USB device, or stream it from your PC during fights, 
 and the environments will respond as though it were the games original soundtrack, essentially 
 turning your 360 into the coolest music visualizer ever.
  
  
  Def Jam: ICON is a sharp looking game. The character models are almost scarily realistic, resembling 
 their real-life counterparts to a T. However, as great the character models are, the environments 
 truly steal the show. They are pretty diverse, with spots in a club, on a rooftop and at a gas 
 station. The environments pulsate with the music, tearing at their own seams as they bounce and 
 breaking down, creating hazards like falling lights and burning gas pumps to make the game a little 
 rougher on the playing field.
  
  Of course, as music factors into the gameplay in fresh new ways, the soundtrack had better be up 
 to snuff. Luckily, the score delivers, with hard-hitting hip-hop tracks with heavy baselines from 
 a myriad of artists, such as Paul Wall, E-40, The Game, T. I. and so on. The voice acting is also 
 quite well done, featuring the cadre of hip-hop artists as well as well known actors like Anthony 
 Anderson rounding out the cast.
  
  Def Jam: ICON is a solid game, as well as the best entry to the series yet. It offers deep simulation 
 features, solid controls, and great music elements, making for an experience that any fighting 
 fan would be glad to have in their gaming library.
  
  Review Scoring Details for Def Jam: ICON Gameplay: 9.0
  Def Jam: ICON utilizes the innovative 
 dual-analog control scheme from Fight Night Round 3 to give you a great deal of control over your 
 fighters moves. Also, the music system is a fantastic touch adding to the However, outside of 
 the fighting elements, the game gives you many options for expanding your hip-hop empire, giving 
 you four hip-hop artists as the single-player mode progresses to make money off of. The one downside 
 of the single-player mode is that it feels pretty linear, as you only have one way to progress 
 through the storyline.
  
  Graphics: 9.5
  Graphically, Def Jam: ICON is a fantastic looking game. The fighters bear the official likenesses 
 of their real-life counterparts, and look eerily realistic. The environments steal the show, though 
 as they pulsate with the music, breaking down as the beats literally rip them up.
  
  Sound: 9.5
  The games music system puts game audio in a brand new light, making it an integral 
 part of the action. The whole game seems to course in line with the music in a synergy that hasnt 
 been done, but definitely should be replicated. The soundtrack consists of a veritable whos who 
 of hip-hop all-stars, with cuts from heavy-hitters like Ludacris, E-40 and T. I., and the voice 
 acting is also very well done.
  
  Difficulty: Medium
  
  Concept: 9.0
  ICON is far and away the deepest entry to the Def Jam series, giving you control of a hip-hop empire 
 beyond the fighting. The simulation elements are a great touch as you can manage personal elements 
 like dating, as well as putting the right amount of your budget (and ass-beatings) behind your 
 stable of hip-hop artists to keep the cash flow coming.
  
  Multiplayer: 8.5
  The online modes are pretty standard fare. You can do one-on-one ranked matches and custom battles 
 against human opponents.
  
  Overall: 9.0
  Def Jam: ICON is a great entry to the series, combining a fluid control scheme, pulsating environments, 
 and cool simulation features for the most comprehensive Def Jam title yet. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ultimo8
Rating: 6.6
Date: Apr 2, 2007 4:25 pm PT
Review:  As everyone else can attest to, coming off of FFNY, EA messed up BIG time! I read a while back 
 when they said that wrestling and hip-hop doesn't make sense..... but ABSOLUTELY senseless violence 
 does? Really appreciate the compliment there. The fighting was damn near perfect, and the wrestling 
 was awesome, it was a fighting game with hip-hop as a layer to give it the ultimate compliment, 
 and create interest. Game first, style later, but EA went SO opposite from that. EA might not read 
 this and I don't care, I just wanted to air out some complaints and see who agrees.
  
  Graphics- I can't complain about that at all it was great, but if you try to use the color white, 
 you might as well use sunglasses while you are playing.
  
  Clothing&amp; Jewels- I know it's petty, but it REALLY irked me that you don't have total control 
 with your clothing like last game, whether you wanted it out or tucked in, you should have left 
 that aspect alone, it was good! It blew that I had to make a choice whether to put a watch or bracelet 
 on either hand instead of being able to mix it up. Especially with the rings....... bad business!
 
  
  Characters- Cool, but why so many DEF JAM affiliates? There are PLENTY of people on DEF JAM and 
 it showed on the last game. It is good and all to get relevant superstars but the last game sold 
 well anyway right? JAY-Z !PRESIDENT! He must have told you no way or something because I don't 
 get it. Everyone else I can understand you might not have had the time. What the hell was up with 
 Tego Calderon and no reggaeton song from him?..... bad business! Fat Joe is about the most horrible 
 unlockable I have ever witnessed in video gaming. He is pretty much negligible. Gameplay- WOW............ garbage. 
 The fighting styles are really, really generic and get boring quick. Personally there are only 
 two that I like and can make effective use of. You might as well have cut the cast down to 5 because 
 most have the same EXACT style, with the same EXACT speed. You go from like 15 different fighting 
 styles that you can personally build (FFNY) to only 5? Analog was a cool decision for hard attacks, 
 but a little unresponsive. Oh yeah, the scratching was a crappy idea too, exploding environments 
 are great and all, but not the ability to control them. I want to fight not THROW! Beating with 
 Bass is personally my favorite mode and makes you appreciate the timing of the music better. Back 
 to scratching, you don't control the music PERIOD! You go to the first part of the chorus or the 
 second, that's it. Take that out next time please! If there is a next time. Switching songs was 
 a weird idea too, just to give one or the other the upper hand, use one song and it's all good. 
 Too gimmicky of a game, don't become like how hip-hop is really becoming now. Environments were 
 more interactive in the last game anyway. The music mogul thing was alright, but unnecessary, after 
 you third playthrough, you don't even care anymore. Bring wrestling back! Bring blaze back! bring 
 fighting styles back! You already have a good game engine going, take 2 years if you have to, please! 
 Make a super download update or something.
  
  Play testing- Oh yeah, it was great that you got rappers input and all, but as you have seen with 
 50 cents game, it really isn't a great idea to have them build any kind of game based on solely 
 their input.
  
  Music- Music was tight though. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kyle-244
Rating: 8.3
Date: Apr 17, 2007 3:56 pm PT
Review:  Well, first off I am going to say this game is a lot shorter then I expected. I was starting to 
 really enjoy it and then BOOM, its over. But I still think its a great game.
  
  The graphics on this game are really nice, the way the place changes color when you change the 
 song is a really cool touch, and peoples clothes get torn and dirty, and their faces and body's 
 get pretty beat up also. Like I said the story/career, is pretty short, but I dont have xbox live, 
 but if you do its pretty fun, I played it at my friends house. There is a lot of custimization 
 in this game, in build a label mode, you get to create the person you will be playing as, you can 
 pick how tall the person is, how much they weigh, what their hair looks like, facial hair, and 
 customize their face, like in the beginning of FNR3 if you are farmiliar with that game. Once you 
 have your person made, there is a tattoo shop, a bling shop, a hair salon, and a clothing store. 
 Their is tons of things you can buy for your character, like grills, watches, shirts, hoodies, jeans, shorts, shades 
 etc. As for the fighting I personally really like it. you fight to the music, there are hazard 
 areas around each place you fight, and in certain parts they will become hazardous, for example 
 in the hood their is a car, and when a hazardous part to you song is playing the car will do a 
 tail whip sort of thing and send your opponent flying. You also sign artist to the label and you 
 have to sell their cd's and make a nice bit of cash in the process. You can spend that money making 
 your artists happy, making your girlfriend (s) happy, spending it on yourself, spendng it on songs 
 to make them popular to make MORE money, OR all of the above. I really am enjoying this game, I 
 have started build a label again with my new person, and if your a fan of fighting games and rap 
 in particular, this is a must have game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gadeos
Rating: 7.8
Date: Apr 1, 2007 7:59 pm PT
Review:  This is gonna be a short review. What I like: good graphics, nice soundtrack, everything around 
 you wether explodes, bounces, or moves on any direction; what I Don't like: it's TOO DAMN SLOW!!!!!!! 
 Man, I know that fighting games developer have been speeding up combat, and EA even did so with 
 Def Jam: Fight For N. Y. But with this one... I feel like fighting on slow motion. That doesn't 
 mean is easy, some blows are hard to tell they're coming. Yet is really frustrating not being able 
 to quikly grab your opponent (some you even wonder, why didn't he dodge that grabbing...)
  
  Anyway, this a plain fun game , whith a funny story mode and a solid character design platform. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JNU13
Rating: 9.7
Date: Apr 1, 2007 5:16 pm PT
Review:  This game is alot of fun to play! It is on of the best fighting games for the xbox 360. No, wait, 
 it is the best. It has really good graphics and the gameplay is very fun. The online is great. 
 The story is the best Def Jam story yet. This game has good music. Very good music. If you have 
 a 360 buy this game because it is such a good game. I hope they keep making these games because 
 this is one of the best 360 games to date. It is a must have right behind Gears of War. This game 
 is very fun to play online so if you have online pick this game up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drknessfeeds
Rating: 3.2
Date: Apr 1, 2007 1:39 pm PT
Review:  this is by far one of the best looking games out right now. i played for about an hour and i was 
 in love... creating a character but once the game started it was over. the entire reason i love 
 this game is because of the gameplay, after the initial shock of getting over the graphics and 
 music i realized i had poop in my 360, given it was very pretty poop but still poop. the controls 
 are just sloppy and the collision is just a nightmare. i dont know why someone (microsoft) didnt 
 play this and tell ea to fix what they broke. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SemiMaster
Rating: 6.2
Date: Apr 1, 2007 9:38 am PT
Review:  For those of you looking for an over the top hip hop based fighting game... you sort of found it. 
 Looking for a next-gen Def Jam Vendetta? Well, look elsewhere. This is more akin to EA's Fight 
 Night Round 3 with more rap, explosions and swearing than past Def Jam games. Graphically, the 
 characters are almost photorealistic recreations of actual rappers. There isn't any more description 
 that needs to be said about the in game characters, but they do sort of move a little stiff, and 
 its irritating to see them move in the exact same repetetive motions and punches over and over 
 without any variation. But I cannot fault this game as no other game dynamically switches movement 
 graphics.
  
  The backgrounds are amazingly detailed, with a slight bit of fancy thrown in. Take the car wash 
 level for instance. This level is a gas station next to a convenience store and a car wash. Imagine 
 going into the inner city surrounded by a concrete jungle with a wire mesh cage outside to seal 
 off the propane tank storage from other things and sale signs in the window. It's quite realistic... 
 until you start fighting. Explosions abound, the car wash brush rotates violently and swings out 
 to the beat of the music, which can damage your opponent. The clouds in the sky rotate as if on 
 a turntable being mixed to the beat. The whole game comes alive with the music.
  
  In the downtown penthouse or the rooftop scenes, you can see the lights of the neighboring buildings 
 light up as if they were a giant equalizer. The environment is highly destructible and is one of 
 the biggest ways to defeat your opponent in the end, in fact most of the achievements come from 
 tossing your opponent into a flaming gas jet, or an elevator shaft or something else that ends 
 up seriously wounding your opponent. The music is amazing, providing you like hip hop. Ranging 
 from Lil Jon to Jim Jones to the Game to Method Man and Ludacris, this game has it all. But don't 
 expect a lot of indie or underground rappers. An interesting feature of the music in this game 
 is that you can switch between yours and your opponent's chosen battle track. Scratching and mixing 
 songs can swing the tides in your favor, doing more damage and such. Also actively scratching activates 
 hazards besides sounding cool. The voice acting and story is standard, start as a local street 
 team member, rise your way to the top of the recording industry. Funny how rappers in game settle 
 their differences with fists and feet. The dialogue is rather authentic and well acted, my favorite 
 characters being Lil Jon and Jim Jones as they sound true to their rap persona and the most realistic. 
 The main character is generically voice acted to make it so he fits any ethnicity you choose in 
 creating a character.
  
  The gameplay I already said was like Fight Night Round 3. The game has two sets of standard attacks, 
 high and low, and both of those are divided and into quick or strong attacks. Very very generic 
 attacks that can string together and knock down an opponent, not flashy or damaging but it works.
 
  There are directional attacks that do a bit more damage and knock enemies in a certain direction. 
 They can also be mixed into the quick and strong combos at the end to do extra damage and send 
 your opponent flying.
  
  However two of the most important parts of the gameplay boil down to this.
  First is scratching. 
 Scratching changes your songs to switch momentum and it also activates hazards. But it's quite 
 easy to mess up and the computer opponents can seem to do it flawlessly every time. The hazards 
 in the game play a huge role, almost too much of a role in the damage dealt. If you want the visceral 
 feeling of kicking someone's teeth in, or picking up a lead pipe, pool cue or bottle and smashing 
 them on the head a la Vendetta, you are in the wrong place. The move list is extremely limited 
 and there is only one way to win, drain the opponents energy bar and make sure they hit the floor, 
 period. The game is rather simplistic and not over the top, which was part of the charm of past 
 Def Jam games. But forget the change in combat style and game mechanics, the biggest qualm I have 
 with this game is the unresponsiveness and cheapness of the controls and AI. To effectively utilize 
 the hazards (which are the main source of damage in the game) , you have to throw your opponent, 
 which involves pressing up on the D-Pad followed by flicking the joystick to any of the 8 directions. 
 However the direction I press is only the direction the enemy is throw less than 50% of the time. 
 Whether this is due to bad collision detection or just a flaw from the camera angle or whatever, 
 it is still a major detraction from a game that is so heavily dependent on these hazards. But the 
 biggest problem is even grabbing someone in the first place. The grab move is so sluggish that 
 even on easy , the AI can handedly repel your attack and counter with no problems. Forget playing 
 on normal or hard, the grabbing is so sluggish it is nearly impossible and supremely frustrating 
 to play the game and get most of the achievements available. The game itself, I. E. main story takes 
 maybe a good 5 to 10 hours to complete depending on your skill or patience. It is basically a fighting 
 game revolving around a few cutscenes and a mini game of managing your label putting out records. 
 Not every meaty, and the variety of fights and restrictions are very lame. In Def Jam Vendetta 
 you had the option of Subway Matches, Inferno Matches, Tag Team, Handicap, or just straight up 
 fights. This game has 1 on 1 at all times, very bland. Surely they have lots of clothes and jewelery 
 accessories for your Create a Character? Some, but the options are severely limited and the combinations 
 you can make or modifications such as rolling up a pant leg are absent in this game. That was one 
 of the greatest charms in Def Jam Vendetta and one of my favorite parts of the graphics, you could 
 switch your character's appearance at the drop of a hat. As interesting as the aesthetic style 
 is and the innovation of beating with bass , or in otherwords, fighting to the music resulting 
 in more damage, this game's innovation cannot trump the fact it lacks soul and depth in any means. 
 Even to the most staunch fan of hip hop, I cannot recommend this game to them at the current price 
 of 59.99$ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kollawona
Rating: 6.9
Date: Apr 1, 2007 1:17 am PT
Review:  Def Jam Icon is alright but rent it first. The game dosen't have as much levels, game modes, and 
 has a smaller and suckier roster compared to previous years. Build a Label (Story mode) has a strong 
 story but if you compare it to the previous years its missing alot of action. Like in Fight for 
 NY there was alot of double crossing and killing but in this one there is almost none of that wich 
 kills the Build A Label mode. Whats good though in Build A Label is you get to walk around your 
 crib. You get to realese albums and get alot of money that way but thats about the only fun thing. 
 But now lets talk about the gameplay. The gameplay is great but once you get the hang of it, it 
 feels to easy. Expet if your playing on hard difficulty wich you can't even do damage its so hard. 
 To me the game focuses way to much on music instead of fighting wich is pretty damn gay and screws 
 up most of the fun for the game. There is also alot of good matches missing like Inferno matches, 
 Cage Matches, Tag Team matches, and so on wich were so fun that aren't there anymore. If you own 
 a 360 and PS3 and are thinking about getting this game well first of all don't because its no worth 
 the money. And 2nd if you still do get the 360 because you get to import your own songs and it 
 has better graphics. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: detroithardcore
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 3, 2008 8:00 am PT
Review:  This is officially the last game im planning on purchasing for my 360. I move through games far 
 too quickly and with a $60 price tag for games nowadays, I cant afford to keep up, and thus im 
 getting into gamefly. So far the biggest thing to stand out on this game to me is the graphics. 
 They are truley gorgeous. Im not all the way through the game yet but so far it seems relatively 
 long.
  
  
  One complaint I do have is the lackluster controls, most matches can be won simply by hitting into 
 the interactive environments. The simple high, low, weak, strong, scheme seems a bit dated for 
 todays standard but I suppose it does take a little technique. For the most part everybody is the 
 same but a couple minor differences set them apart .
  
  
  There were alot of people I expected to return that never did though. I havent unlocked everyone 
 yet but I know for sure most of the non def jam characters arent back. Which is really kind of 
 a let down because I loved playing as Henry Rollins and Snoop dog in the last iteration.
  
  Honestly Im going to say rent it first and see if its your cup of tea, because ive only had the 
 game for a day and im sort of bored already. The demo doesnt do much along the lines of showing 
 you the true nature of the game but if youre a fan of a large cast than this is right up your alley. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iMacBot
Rating: 3.7
Date: Mar 31, 2007 6:31 am PT
Review:  What kind of crap is this? Is this game a joke, are they making fun of people? This game is really 
 boneheaded, I can't believe EA is behind this. The whole city skyline breaks up when you fight... 
 with your hands. You throw your opponent on a power box, he gets fried, and then he gets back up 
 and knocks you down... like what the freak is this. Unless if you're looking for a laugh do not 
 get this game, it sucks. The only good part in the game is the store manager with the fire extinguisher, 
 that's it. This game is a cheap Hip-Hop version of Ninja Gaiden which means, in other words, it's 
 garbage. Graphics are okay, but could be a lot better. The sound is absent... all you have is noise 
 and music... actually just noise. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: microsoftmenace
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 30, 2007 6:36 am PT
Review:  At first this game seems great untill you realise how slow the gameplay actually is and how a combo 
 of punches or kicks just seems to end. The story in the game isn't deep enough to keep you playing 
 for hours on end although it does surpass the basic wants of a straight forward beat-em-up. There's 
 nothing else really to say about this game except if you want a def jam game get vendetta for the 
 ps2 it is so much better and is far superior.
  
  I wolud advise you to get this on the xbox 360 rather than ps3 due to the support of ipods. Character 
 is also pretty much the same as fight night round 3 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HymnsomniaK
Rating: 1
Date: Mar 29, 2007 8:09 pm PT
Review:  Next-Gen DefJam is finally here but if you're looking for face-crunching back-breaking leg-twisting 
 action you'd better look somewhere else. Gone is the violence that was so commonplace as are the 
 life-bars that indicate how close is your fighter to chewing up some dirt ( the developers must've 
 thought a fighting game should do without them ) . Everything that defines a DefJam game as being 
 , well , a DefJam game is gone in this installment of the series. Makes you wish they had just 
 ported The Takeover from PSP to X360/PS3. Gameplay is slow and retarded with a fighting system 
 that makes playing this game a chore rather than fun and interesting. You can hit opponents with 
 high and low attacks which in turn can be weak or strong , to grapple you have to move the right 
 analog stick and to execute a grapple move a simple press on the D-Pad will start it off. While 
 fighting you'll have the ability to increase the damage done on your opponent by making bits of 
 the scenario explode by scratching the tune that's playing. A fighting game fan's nightmare. Graphics 
 could be excellent and indeed they will appear to be so when you first experience the game but 
 when the fight starts getting to a conclusion the color tones range from what could be considered 
 normal to monochromatic ( no life-bars you see ) , this makes the game look just plain terrible. 
 Sound and music get the job done without much flare. This may be a good game on it's own but as 
 a DefJam game it falls amazingly short and has disappointed many fans. I could go on and on pointing 
 out what's wrong with this game and what should've been done but in the end it's one of those love 
 it or hate it things and if you've played Fight for New York I'm betting you'll be on the hate 
 it corner. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blackkunoichi
Rating: 6.6
Date: Mar 29, 2007 4:07 pm PT
Review:  Def Jam has made their very good popularity by making great games. First was Def Jam Vendetta. 
 It wasn't super great, but I'll cut them some slack. Def Jam just learning about the game world, 
 well along with the company that makes a lot of sports games. Next was Def Jam: Fight For New York, 
 who had more street than a ghetto in Montana (Just a Joke) . They had many great male and female 
 fighters, great environments, and environmental moves, and also some deadly endings (i. g. the Subway, 
 and the Window stages) . The game became very popular in the series. It has been a while since we 
 heard of them making another game, and now it's here. It took about a few weeks ago from it's release 
 for us to know the title. It was just Def Jam 3. This game has evolved really well. First thing 
 to state as an example is the graphics. The fighter look like theirselves in real life. Even more 
 than what WWE offers us. Another thing is the environments. One stage that many find popular in 
 this game is BET's 106 N Park. The roster is quite popular in the hip hop world (and I mean world 
 ) From T. I., to Mike Jones, to Paul Wall, and the list goes on. However it is not as much as the 
 last installment. One problem is that you fight only men, and create male characters, like the 
 last game. There is only four unplayable female characters, and they're all video vixens, except 
 one, who is a singer. One female who many may know for her part in the Apple Bottoms clothing line 
 is Mellyssa Ford, who was also a video vixen. The story centers on your created male character 
 becoming a star in the music business from rags to riches. I haven't witnessed the whole story 
 yet, because I don't own the game, but I've played it before. Now the soundtrack in the game. The 
 songs that you hear on the radio are the songs that you hear in this game. From The Game's It's 
 Okay (One Blood) , to my favorite, which is Paul Wall's Sittin Sidewayz . If you don't like rap 
 music, no need to worry. Go buy some cds, or burn some, and put them onto your Xbox 360, or Playstation 
 3. The game also have reactions to the songs that you put in the game. The gameplay, however, is 
 the problem in the game. All you do is kicks, and punches around the place, and it takes seconds 
 and seconds to trigger a grapple, which is somewhat of a weird method onto making this work. You 
 do get to throw them to traps that explode at certain moments, blowing them to the other side of 
 the stage. It's really entertaining. The bad news is that what the game is famous for, is gone. 
 There is no Blazin moves in the game, which kind of sucks. They have another special thing to do. 
 How about be a dj, and scratch your jam, and cause the whole stage to start exploding. Is this 
 game something to buy? You should rent it at first, though it doesn't matter if you buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: War_Tourist
Rating: 7.2
Date: Mar 28, 2007 8:54 pm PT
Review:  Def jam: Icon is fun. Its got a simple, smooth and responsive control. When combined with its 
 methodical pace, it makes for a very tactical game of attack and counter attack. It reminds me 
 of Powerstone, all its countering moves, blocking then exploiting, leveraging the environment. 
 The stages environmental effects are pretty amazing. At various times youll be slugging it out 
 among cities being shook apart, penthouses engulfed in flame, and skyscraper roofs. All self destructing 
 in perfect sync to the music. Its got a fun strategic layer of financial management thats part 
 strike commander and part playboy: the mansion. You gain and retain artists through combat resolution, 
 which in this game means the stage fights. These artists, on their own, spew a single that you 
 promote with your bankroll. If it does well, you have more cash to finance and produce reality 
 tv-shows and repair trashed hotel rooms. Theres some story and its fairly indecipherable, though 
 it does add a very genuine alien-ness to the atmosphere. Fighting it out with all these crazy, 
 slouching dudes with star wars bounty hunter names like E-40 and TI, theres a definite science 
 fiction vibe to it if you cross your eyes a little. Its got roughly the same character creator 
 from fight night 3, and a shallow shopping RPG. For some reason dragging the controller to the 
 corners in the face maker always creates the most interesting characters IMO. Sadly this tends 
 to make my characters look almost identical between games that let you customize your avatar (Frog 
 faced white dudes with bleached braids: fight night 3, saints row, now icon) . I chuckled when 
 I leveled to producer on the icon chart, which was right above hustler but not quite hit maker. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: terror_drone
Rating: 2.2
Date: Mar 28, 2007 6:08 pm PT
Review:  first of all i love def jam games.. especially ''fight for ny'' anyway..
  this is ea's strategy i think.. first make a good game and make it worse.. i dont know.. too much 
 thing drive me crazy in this game; music, controls, fighting system.. etc
  no fighting styles (actually a few style avaible but i still cant understand why they stupid this 
 much?!!) just grab ur opponent and throw him away or take him down.. except grab and throw characters 
 can perform kick and punch.. for a fighting game those are not enough.. oh i almost forget; everthing 
 is slow in game.. all u can do beating up ur joy-pad.. i write too much about fighting styles^^
 
  and music.. music??.. yes a few soundtrack available if u calling hip hop as music (:
  graphics; thank god somethings still good..
  well just no need to buy this game.. rent it first 
 and see ur own eyes (:
  u should find another options for spend ur money (: 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jhodge2891
Rating: 6.8
Date: Mar 28, 2007 5:36 pm PT
Review:  Being a huge hip hop fan that I am, I was genuinely excited to have another installment of the 
 Def Jam series come out for the next-gen systems. The previous two games, Fight For NY and Vendetta 
 were solid wrestling/fighting games featuring the top hip hop artists, both old and new. However, 
 in its newest installment, I feel that Icon falls a bit short of its expectations, but gives a 
 solid delivery in the story it tells.
  
  
  The first notable change in the game is the fighting style. The days of wrestling your opponent 
 to the ground are over, and more of fight night approach has been taken. Which makes sense because 
 the series switched developers, and the fight night crew gladly took the franchise, so they played 
 to their strengths. Fighting is controlled simply by pressing the A. B, X or Y buttons, all of which 
 represent a high of low attack. These attacks are varied up very little in the different type of 
 fighting stances, which is deplorable compared to the previous games, and the variation of moves 
 lacks greatly. Minor quips like that I can get over, but one major problem hindered me from having 
 a good experience and that was the overall movement of your character. During fights your rapper 
 looks as if they had just completed running a marathon, the swings seem half hearted and when they 
 do connect, the resulting hit is often times to great then the force of the punch itself. One feature 
 I did enjoy in DJI was the DJ turntable controls. This new feature connects the games soundtrack 
 with the game, something very few games have accomplished. Before each fight, you pick a song from 
 the various songs in the soundtrack, and this song becomes your fight song. Your opponent selects 
 one as well, and throughout the ensuing fight you and your opponent for control of your song, which 
 gives you extra damage when playing. Along with the extra damage, the songs serve another purpose. 
 Key points in the song will trigger environmental events such as an explosion, or electrical shortage 
 to name a few. When these events occur, you can use your DJ turntable control to rewind or even 
 fast forward the song to where the event happens. This feature is a double edged sword, because 
 it fuses the music with the game, but at the same time it makes fighting somewhat one dimensional. 
 Instead of gong for straight up knockouts you are constantly trying to throw your opponent next 
 to a car or gas tank. The games shining moment is in the story mode, titled build your own label. 
 This mode has you creating your own character form scratch, offering a great amount of detail in 
 which you can design your character, and clothing from top hip hop brands. The character you design 
 will then be put to the task off building a hip hop record label from the ground up. You start 
 off as the companies errand boy, doing odd jobs for rappers, which ultimately lands you record 
 deals, When the rappers are on your label, you manage their careers, which consists of how much 
 money they make on royalties, how much money you pt into their songs for marketing, air play and 
 so on. This adds to DJI depth in story mode and makes you want to progress on to sign more artists.
 
  
  This game is more of a rental then a buy, simply because of game play quirks and replay ability. 
 It is perfect for hip hop fans, more so of the new school because of the artists and songs that 
 play throughout the game. DJI is held back by its slow game play, but had the potential to better 
 than each of its predecessors. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Clauzer
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 27, 2007 6:43 pm PT
Review:  THIS GAME IS GREAT!!
  
  The graphics are awsome, the soundtrack it's like omg! I never pay attention to the soundtrack 
 in fight games but this one geez!!.
  
  The game it can get glitchy* sometimes but the pros blew those *glitches* away so fast. I'm sick 
 about those who gave less than 8 points to the gameplay just because of the camera angle? because 
 the A. I. blocks and give a hard fight in the hard dificulty? (you guys should stop playing DoA, SF, Tekken 
 where everything is so easy and readable even in the hardest levels) so stop saying this game gameplay 
 is bad just because the camera angle or A. I. dificulty.
  
  The best it's the fact that you must keep defending your soundtrack rom being changed into the 
 rival's tune, every single punch/throw can be countered*YAY!! no more unblockable/uncountered moves 
 =D*
  
  Everything it's good but those minor sluggish punches and the decent amount of chars available*I 
 must say this title has less chars than DFFFNY*
  
  Don't waste anymore time and go buy your copy you wontregret it =D. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: porterwarren
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 27, 2007 12:32 pm PT
Review:  Def Jam Icon is definitely the most original of the Def Jam series. It is a must have for gamers 
 who love hip - hop. The fighting system is what makes the game so unique. It combines what initially 
 seems to be simple button mashing with a more complex series of movements. You can use the left 
 and right analog sticks to control the music you hear by using in-the-air DJ skills. The storyline 
 is also very innovative. The games main weakness, is the fact that it does not have as many artists 
 as you would think. They are missing too many important people, most notably, artists such as Jay 
 -Z, Yung Joc, Nas, etc. Now you can go through the trouble of trying to create them in the F. A. C. E. 
 mode, but I don't feel you should have to. Overall though, it is a very good game, with excellent 
 graphics and by far the best hip - hop soundtrack I have ever heard on a game. If you like hip 
 hop and you like games, you won't be disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Joeker501
Rating: 7.9
Date: Mar 26, 2007 10:45 pm PT
Review:  To be honest, I have never played any of the other Def Jam's and from what I understand, it is 
 probably a good thing.
  
  First off, I hear a lot of negative impressions for ICON from others. I do know however, the bad 
 reviews and impressions are comming mostly form people that have played the previous ones. I can 
 understand that they would be frustrated that certain features and depth of the game have been 
 changed drastically from the others.
  
  Since I have no impressions of the other Def Jam games to set a standard to, I can approach ICON 
 without any expectations at all. Shortly after downloading the demo I knew that I was interested 
 in this title. Unfortunately the demo is very limited in your time to play the game, approximately 
 2 minutes, which could very well be a good marketing strategy. I would play the game a few times, 
 get tired of the limited time and stop. But, I would always find myself heading back to the demo 
 to play it through once again.
  
  The controls take a little getting used to. They deffinately don't behave like your traditional 
 fighting games. You can basically fight a whole match with just your analogue sticks, as they perform 
 the more advaced attacks. These sticks will also be visited quite a bit to act like record turntables 
 to trigger hazards from the environment. For example, at the gas station you will notice that once 
 the fuel pumps are damaged, they will explode into a fireball after every big beat to the music 
 that is playing. These beats can also be triggered by you using your turntable controls to force 
 the beat in the music.
  
  The fighting in ICON can be a little slow for most people. There is a short delay for attacking. 
 It is not like Tekken where you would expect the attack to be instantly executed right after the 
 button is pushed. The time you push an attack button and the time the move is executed gives your 
 opponent a very short window to counter the move. With a more than generous healthbar, expect your 
 fights to last several minutes as well.
  
  The graphics are done very well. You won't be dissapointed at all. The environmental hazzards are 
 executed with great detail, the character animations are smooth, and details in the levels surpass 
 a lot of next gen games so far.
  
  The music goes well for ICON. It only makes sense that your soundtrack would be limited to rap, 
 as you are fighting rappers for the most part in this game. The fact that you can play with any 
 music you upload to your 360 can be a little deceiving I think. You are only able to use your own 
 soundtrack which will affect the environment if you play against the AI offline. It is best to 
 play with your default music where it affects the environment because there is some strategy to 
 get your opponent to the dangerous areas in time for one of those big beats to cause a hazzard.
 
  
  Another great feature for this game is the customization for your character. It is very deep and 
 you are almost limitless on how your character turns out to look like.
  
  I am happy that I purchased ICON. It is a good decent fighting game that I can return to often, 
 without the 2 minute timer now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Robodawg11
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 26, 2007 8:03 am PT
Review:  If u loved fight night and love the other def jam games then you should love this game. It is differnent 
 then fight for new york, the game is now more realistic and slow paced like a real street fight. 
 The cool thing that they added to the game is the new dj turntables whick i like to call magical 
 dj powers.
  
  The graphics in this game are amazing they are one of the best on 360, same with the sound the 
 sounds like everything a streetfight would be. The online is really fun to, cause people dont just 
 throw you into the hazzards and use their magical dj powers they acctually try and fight u ( i 
 cant guarentee you though that every one wont do that though)
  
  To rap things up this is an amazing fun game and i dont think it should me missed by anyone who 
 is either fan of the series or fan of fighting games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xxxsalvo
Rating: 1.9
Date: Mar 26, 2007 5:44 am PT
Review:  Bleahh..!!! where is the old def jam?? a total disaster.. label manager.. ?? gold disc????? we are 
 joking?? i would the old defjam!!!! with the jim.. the weapons.. and fighting style.. the blood.. the 
 only god thing in this defjam is the graphic.. if you are a fanatic of def jam series dont buy this 
 title! I'am very very very disappointed!!!! i think to write a letter of protest to eagames because 
 this understood it of this game has it contort completely is not more a game than combat but a 
 manager game about music hip-hop... moreover the gameplay; the combat is too much monotone the 
 movements is little and the absence of the bars of the life does not appeal to to me not at all! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XxGreatScythexX
Rating: 7.8
Date: Mar 25, 2007 5:16 pm PT
Review:  Def Jam is hard to get use to its shaky controls, but after awhile it can be great fun.
  
  Gameplay:
  Many people that have played the other Def Jams will see that there are alot of changes 
 to the gameplay that the other games do not have. There are not many fighting styles to choose 
 from, so the controls can get very repetitive at times. Every move you unleash though, can be combined 
 with any other attack button so your opponent might not know what is coming up next after each 
 blow. The record scratching is where most of the fighting revolves around. You can switch your 
 opponents song to your own, use map hazards that hurt your opponent when triggered, or use the 
 same button for record scratching to cancel out the enemy trying to record scratch. Besides the 
 short amount of kicking/punching and record scratching, thats all that the fighting has to offer. 
 The story is pretty interesting as you try to make your way to the top as being one of the best 
 record producers of all time. It seems that most record deals in this game involve you beating 
 up the artist to settle the deal... There are a couple of twists in this game that will make you 
 want to kill them for what they have done! there are not that many maps to fight on, and they are 
 the same for multi player too... so the fighting can even get boring at times.
  Just about every multi player match that I have been in, the match is incredibly laggy, so I wonder 
 why that is so since they are all dedicated matches. All in all, the fighting in Def Jam: Icon is 
 average and is not really that amazing.
  
  Graphics:
  I think this is one of Def Jam's best qualities. There is movement in the background scenery in 
 the maps for even inanimate objects that move to the beat of your music. The character visuals 
 are soothing too and you are able to make your own character with a well-designed character creator-editor. 
 There are many nice looking clothes and jewelry to offer for your character to make him the ultimate 
 pimp.
  
  Sound:
  It is nice to fight to music in this game, but there is not even that much music to choose from. 
 It is just better to load up your ipod and fight to your own music against your opponent. It gets 
 me pumped to beat up somebody listening to BALLLINNN ... um wait... never mind that... I think I will 
 just put my own music on.
  
  Value:
  It may not be worth the $60 to buy it, but it would make a great rent. If you do buy it, you could 
 try and create a character that looks like famous people that are not in the game. The graphics 
 are really good for a fighting game and the sound can sometimes be cool, so give it a try.
  
  Tilt:
  This game may be just another fighting game, but it has many interactive material 
 to finish your opponent off in each map. The record scratching is a cool feature and it has one 
 of the best graphics I have seen for a regular fighting game.
  
  Final Words:
  I recommend this game to anyone who likes rap or loves to see Lil' John get his faced smashed in. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rangers1690
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 25, 2007 2:55 pm PT
Review:  ok - when I bought this game I was really disappointed to start with, I thought it was a waste 
 of money but after about 20 minutes of playing it I loved it. The fighting engine seemed too slow 
 and simple which really threw me off, everything else from the get-go looked spot on and sounded 
 great but the fighting in general was not what I had hoped for - after about 20 or 30 minutes though 
 I had got the hang of the analogue moves and the song switching which really made me like the fight 
 engine, the music inclusion is perfect, the graphics are excellent, the story mode is the best 
 story mode I have seen in a game and after you get used to it the fighting engine is definitely 
 a must buy - one of my favorite games and I recommend it to anyone who likes fighting games or 
 Hop Hop. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SchoolHouseDon
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 25, 2007 12:25 pm PT
Review:  Def Jam the icon is Ok but the feels like a another tweaked fighting game some of the problems 
 could have been fixed but has been overlooked like the game length u could probally beat it in 
 a couple of hours at best. The fighting variety is limited like most of the boys is hot n new but 
 what about others like 8 ball, MJG, Pimp C, Lil Wayne, Lil Boosie, or at least download mo at xbox 
 live. The multiplayer is solid and the xbox live support makes it better. The Game modes is well... mediocore. 
 The Music is rock solid and put your music into the game fight with yo music as weapon really new 
 2 me and if u know the song really well u can not lose. The create player is 2 limited u can mo 
 variety from madden create a player. EA needs 2 sho nuff if they wanna get real. Look I know that 
 the did Fight Night Round 3 and all but this game right here its just 2 slow 2 borin and just 2 
 pathetic. EA just needs 2 Stick with the Madden, NBA Live, Medal Of Honor, Need For Speed, and 
 Fight Night. Cuzz anythang else is just disipointing real talk. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MGShacker
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 24, 2007 10:28 am PT
Review:  hey everyone thanks for reading my review on def dam icon.
  well first of all id like to say how much i have enjoyed the other def jam games. okay, the graphics 
 are great!!! and i just love it how its rappers, and you get to beat the crap out of eachother 
 (actually) like chuck guys into cars. and i really love it how the enviroment changes... like when 
 you are about to win the music goes to your music and if your owning the fight it plays your rappers 
 music instead of the other rappers music tottally turning the tide of the fight. if you like games 
 like this i want you to buy this game cuz its the real deal. i dont know why but alot of people 
 think def jam games suck but i tottaly disagree. 10 out of 10.... buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: harm0n1ca
Rating: 7.2
Date: Mar 26, 2007 6:26 am PT
Review:  Let's face it, Def Jam FFNY was an awesome game. The level of customisation available from the 
 start was almost a game in itself, and by the end most people would have had a clothing and accessory 
 line that would make a barbie doll turn green.
  For me though, and many others no doubt, the real joy came from smashing your opponents head against 
 the edge of a pool table.. No? How about throwing them into the crowd and letting them hand out 
 some pain with a weapon that you could choose to use.. No? Really? What about getting four of you 
 in the ring for some double whammies and awesome over the top slams... Still no? Well some people 
 are just never satisfied, are they?
  
  What's the point of this ramble you might ask? Well, one point is that these are just a few of 
 the components of FFNY that make it such a memorable and playable game. The other point is that 
 almost none of these, with the exception of customisation, are part of Icon, and even the customisation 
 options have been significantly reduced.
  
  With Icon it's back to bare skeletal gaming, which seems to be a definite trend among many of EA's 
 titles, where a lot of their games have seen a new major feature added, but at the expense of a 
 number of other ones being removed that may have been popular.
  
  Here, the expense is quite large. Gone are the crowds and with it crowd participation. Gone is 
 the satisfaction of breaking heads against a pool table (I really loved doing that) and gone is 
 the soul of the game... Not quite. Icon can almost hold its own, if not for some unexpanable niggling 
 features, which will be discussed later.
  
  First, the visuals. While these should not be the selling point of any game, it is hard to ignore 
 them here. The game looks beautiful. The scenery, the setting and the visual effects as fights 
 reach their end are pretty spectacular to watch. The fighters/rappers all look like their real 
 life counterparts. Apart from that not much more can be said. Spot on visuals.
  
  The gameplay is where opinions will really be split down the middle. The fighting physics have 
 been given a huge overhaul, which some may find difficult to handle. There is no mix-n-matching 
 fighting styles; you are simply given a choice before each fight which style you want to use. While 
 some may believe there isn't anything more than a superficial difference between the styles, once 
 you play the game you realise this is entirely untrue. Some styles allow the fighter swifter attacks 
 and greater block/reversal success, while others affect how quickly you can get up after getting 
 knocked down, and how quickly you can scratch-change the song. This, as will be discussed later, 
 is crucial during some of the fights, which can be extremely challenging and satsifying and frustrating 
 at the same time.
  
  The standard hit, block and reversal moves are good fun, and similar in many ways to Fight Night's 
 system. Scoring hits, or successfully reversing attacks is really satisfying, and the sound of 
 landing some of the harder hits really adds to this satisfaction. While the fighting seems oriented 
 toward being a thinker's 'brawler' rather than a typical fast paced 'arcade' style button masher, 
 once you do get into the fights you will find yourself landing substantial combos on your opponent 
 until either you slip up or they find a way out of the onslaught. Unfortunately, this potentially 
 excellent idea is brought down by the responsiveness and speed of the fighter themselves. I've 
 only ever seen people hit as slowly as this once in my life, and it was 2 very drunk individuals 
 brawling in the street at closing time, exchanging blow for blow. While that's entertaining, it 
 kind of sucks the fun out of the game when singly player mode feels like it's suffering from lag!
 
  In direct contrast to the attempt for the fighting system to be a slower, more realistic 'brawler', 
 the scenery surrealistically moves and attacks with the music. To some this is just ridiculous, 
 and immediately a reason to ignore this game. They could be forgiven for assuming the game is ruined 
 with this addition. However after a few fights it's actually a lot of fun, knocking your opponent 
 into the hazards. On top of this, as the fights goes on, the scenery will become more explosive, 
 as so presents a danger to both players. This means that if you throw your opponent into a hazard 
 but are standing too close, you will get it too. This in turn means that if you are too careless 
 you will knock yourself out, losing the fight.
  
  If there are any complaints to be had about this game, it's that the music isn't varied enough 
 to appeal to every rap fan and hiphophed, and something other than the genres presented would have 
 been nice, especially for people who don't have time to stick their own songs into the game..
 
  
  Also, the gameplay feels slow and little unresponsive, which becomes more apparent as the game 
 goes on. This is one of the most frustrating problems in the game, as gameplay is the most important 
 part of any game. By messing up such a crucial aspect, what you do is totally ruin what would otherwise 
 have been a refreshing and fun experience.
  
  Despite this the game is still worthy of a play, it is refreshing and at times highly entertaining. 
 However, I couldn't blame anyone for going back to FFNY, and it would probably be worth saving 
 your money and just renting, rather than buying the title. (NOTE: I had given this an 8.3 at first, 
 but should have reserved judgement for more of the game, as it changed my opinion as I progressed!) 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kingofdasouth69
Rating: 6.6
Date: Mar 23, 2007 2:27 pm PT
Review:  The other Def Jam games had great replay value. Def jam: ICON however, gets old fast. There are 
 no more out -of-this-world Blazin Moves. The list of rappers is extremely dissapointing, the fighting 
 is mostly based on guessing, you only fight 15 different characters maximum in the Build A Label 
 mode, and there is no 4-fighters free-for-all match. That was all the bad. There are a few good 
 things in the game to consider. For example, the pulsating backround in syncronization with the 
 music. This is a nice touch as it makes the fithers look like they were in a music video. Another 
 is the enviromental hazards such as exploding gas pumps andtransformers, swinging helicopters, 
 and explosive sound waves, etc. Still it's not enough to make up for the lack of variety among 
 fighting styles. Overall, i feel like I should've bought Crackdown or NBA Street: Homecourt instead. 
 I suggest that you rent ICon before you buy it for keeps. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tekkor
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 22, 2007 1:41 pm PT
Review:  Well first of all let me start out saying I have not ever played the old Def Jam games. I always 
 heard good things about them but just missed them for one reason or another. So I had been looking 
 at this game for a couple weeks now. Went back and forth about getting it and read alot of other 
 reviews and opinions etc.
  
  I decided to go ahead and get it because I had been really wanting a new game for my 360, hehe.
 
  
  Overall Im very pleased with the game. I think people need come off the saying it sucks because 
 FFNY was so much better etc etc. The game is trying something new and going in a bit of a different 
 direction. I think people expecting a wrestling game or a highly technical fighting game are missing 
 a bit of the point behind this game.
  
  The game is basically a game for fans of rap and fans of the sorta Cribs style features of past 
 football games etc. Its a fighting game that allows you to work your way through a storyline and 
 enjoy low pressure sim building stuff while doing it all in a very well done hip hop setting. The 
 game is not trying to be Tekken 18. Its not trying to be Sims 3. Its not trying to be EA's Head 
 Coach.
  
  But it sorta has pieces of all these games elements worked into it. I think the game is great. 
 I just think people are being a bit to picky in what they think they want. Anyway here is a basic 
 list of my Pros &amp; Cons:
  
  Pros:
  
  - Nice fighting system for those people who dont want to learn 400 combinations and counters. The 
 fighting system is fun and unique.
  
  - Graphics are stellar. Nuff' said yo.
  
  - Plenty to do to keep your interest other then just mindless fighting. You get to listen to entertaining 
 emails, plan cd release budgets, deal with money grubbing girlfriends and shop for clothes and 
 such.
  
  - Great music if you like hip hop etc.
  
  Cons:
  
  - Controls are not explained very well at beginning of game. Maybe there is a training mode but 
 I just went right into the Label mode.
  
  - Difficulty settings seem a bit off. Medium is sorta hard. Easy is too easy. found my self switching 
 it back and forth.
  
  - Could have been maybe a hair longer and maybe a couple more arenas.
  
  Overall Im enjoying 
 it. Your mileage may vary. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spoogan
Rating: 7.2
Date: Mar 21, 2007 9:37 pm PT
Review:  Def Jam: Icon is the newest game in the Def Jam series of games. In this one, you make your character 
 and are taken from being a typical street hood to a producer for a big shot music mogul named Curtis 
 Carter. As the story goes on, and you sign more artists and become richer, a whole conspiracy unfolds 
 involving a rival music mogul named Troy Dollar and off-duty cops.
  
  The game starts off with you creating a character - you can customize pretty much everything from 
 his eye seperation to body build to head size to hair color - and then from there you are thrown 
 into the game. You can purchase jeans, shirts, hoodies, jackets, shoes, hats, tattoos, jewelery, 
 shorts... pretty much anything that you could in real life but just couldn't afford haha. Anyway, 
 after that you have to fight; the controls are simple really - right analog stick does strong attacks, 
 and the buttons do either quick or semi-strong attacks. As your empire grows you can begin to do 
 favors for the artists under your label like bail them out of jail (I had to do this for E-40 atleast 
 17 times) or send their familys to Europe under your expense. Additionally, on the same lines of 
 your artists, you have to budget how much money to spend on the marketing and air-play of their 
 newest singles to depend on how much revenue they will bring to you in the end. Finally, you can 
 also get girlfriends who will also ask you for money.... hmm...
  
  Now this particular Def Jam game relies on the environment for the bulk of your fights. By this 
 I mean there are random hazards strewn about the level like stereo speakers or helicopters or cars 
 and the point of them is to throw your opponent into them and activate the DJ Turntables to have 
 these hazards to explode and cause additionally damage. The DJ Turntables basically have your character 
 stand still and rotate (quite literally) air-vinyl tracks and cause things to explode. You can 
 also use these to change the song during the fight.
  
  The best part about this game, besides the customization, is the online play. I can truely say 
 that DJ: I has some of the most balanced online fighting I have experienced and it isn't filled 
 with a bunch of foul-mouthed punks talking yang non-stop. I had a lot of fun online, and there 
 are achievements to be found through X-Box Live.
  
  The graphics were pretty solid, and quite impressive. The way the levels were designed and how 
 they interacted with the fighters was pretty cool. The rappers looked practically lifelike, so 
 that was a plus. Only, there was a serious clipping issue - your necklace would go through your 
 clothes, enemies would grab you and their arms would be through your body (lol) ... it wasn't big, 
 but it took away from the semi-serious tone of the game.
  
  The music was off the hook. I loved the tracks (though now I have a new found dislike for Mike 
 Jones) that this provided. However, there wasn't enough of a variety in the songs I mean there 
 was like.. I think 10 (give or take) artists to listen to.
  
  Now for the bad part - this game is SERIOUSLY hard. The fights last really long, enemies always 
 seem to counter your attacks and always throw you into hazards regardless of how far away they 
 are from it, and Young Jeezy is almost impossible. The camera tends to place itself in awkward 
 positions making seeing the action hard, and like I said the game difficulty is RIDICOUSLY hard. 
 Oh, and sometimes you'll be in the middle of pulling of a move and the enemy will just come over 
 and tap you once causing you to stop the move all the way... errrr...
  
  The ending was flat out terrible. You unravel the conspiracy, and have to fight the last boss. 
 After winning, you become the top man in your own label. You find yourself sitting in a club with 
 Method Man (who in this game is called Goosh or Coosh.. something like that) as he talks to this 
 guy Senator Jacobson. Thats it... all that brain hemoraging anger from the difficulty for that? 
 Hmph, I smell rip-off.
  
  Anyway, Def Jam: Icon has a pretty good fighting game underneath its flaws and I do recommend it.... 
 as a rental. Cause after all the aggravation and cheesy story, there isn't much left to the game 
 except run through it again and earn more money. 7.2 Platinum Records out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: loogs
Rating: 4.2
Date: Mar 20, 2007 4:16 pm PT
Review:  Yo what it do man? This ya boy loogs hea checkin in wif dis review of def jam son. Ok enough of 
 that. Im only doing this review to speak my mind. Unfortunately EA has taken a game that has a 
 huge upside and butchered it. Thats not to say that this game isnt fun because it is. Im just 
 wondering why they had to go and mess it up with the stupid controller setup. The controls feel 
 archaic and sluggish. You will be mashing buttons just in hope that youll connect first. It feels 
 very slow and unresponsive. It makes the game laborious and takes away the fun factor of a game 
 that would absolutely shine if it was done right.
  
  Those are the negatives. On the plus side the graphics are awesome. The soundtrack is sweet. The 
 interaction with the music and the environments is pure genius. You will love scratching and mixing 
 songs. Label maker/ career mode is very well put together and has a very good storyline. The wardrobe 
 is cool and all the cribs you unlock and everything else from budgeting money in relation to songs 
 being dropped and girlfriends as well as your artist getting into various troubles is an interesting 
 and fun part of the game.
  
  I do like this game a lot; its just the controls that bother me. Except for scratching and song 
 switching the fighting could have been done much better and needs to be more responsive. Peace 
 out
  
  ok, ive been playing this game all day today so i have this to add. this game is %^&amp;%&amp;% 
 $^#^^&amp;. and if you dont understand that then i cant help you. i almost destryed everything 
 in my house. i ticked off my wife so bad that she left the house. ive decided to stop playing this 
 game and i almost broke it in half before oming to my senses. i will be trading it in asap. the 
 problem is that the game goes from having a pretty basic difficulty, ie not too hard not too easy. 
 to being downright unplayable. why? you ask. its because of the %$^^%$^&amp;$#^&amp;# control. 
 the computer blocks everything you throw and because its so sluggish you dont have time to react. 
 next thing you know its whoopin you behind all over the pavement. this is the last EA game i buy. 
 ive had it with their mediocre production value. they take great games and turn them into $#! t. 
 and i m sure now that gamespot is on EAs payroll. they give mlb 2k7 a 7.9 and this an 8.1. 2k7 
 may have alot of bugs but its much better than this piece of junk 
::::::

::::::
UserName: king_bodian
Rating: 4.8
Date: Mar 19, 2007 11:59 pm PT
Review:  One thing I have to say about this game is the difficukty level is so poor. I have playing games 
 since before i have memory, about 19 years now and apart from Days of Thunder for the NES I have 
 never seen a game as hard as this. It may be just based on the fact that no one else seems to be 
 complaining about it but this game is so set in its ways that if you don't have an incredibaly 
 firm grip on the music featured in the game or a complete understanding of the system in the game 
 you have little to no chance of making ti through the default difficulty setting int his game. 
 Like I said before I have literally been palying video games for almost two decades and this is 
 undoubtely t he second hardest game I have ever played, other then that the character models look 
 great, the soundtrack is awesome, I am not a rap fan and I have found more then a couple songs 
 that I love, but it is all undone by the fact that you are completely at th AI's will in the latter 
 stages of game, I haven't played online put barring any lag i would safely recommend its multiplayer 
 over the horrendously difficult single player campaign that exists within this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: melo_211
Rating: 7.7
Date: Mar 19, 2007 4:02 pm PT
Review:  What does it depend on? It depends on if you have played Fight for New York really. For those who 
 have gotten their hands on the best Def Jam in the series in Fight for NY, you have to go into 
 this game.. pop it in your 360/PS3 with a NEUTRAL feeling. As if this is the first ever Def Jam 
 you've ever played. If you successfully pull that off, this game is very playable. If you are thinking 
 about it, and you have played Fight for NY, but you know you can't neutralize your love for Fight 
 for NY, don't bother... don't waste your money.
  Personally, it took me a day or two. First night I got back.. this game was absolutely trash. Like... 
 Oh my f'in god... why did I pay But once I decided to give it a second chance, it turns out not 
 so bad. Sure the characters seem somewhat to lag during the fighting (meaning their kinda slow, 
 or so it feels that way) , but the story mode is the bread and butter. Although somewhat cheesy, 
 the artists you encounter in the story, whether if you're beating them senseless or getting them 
 to sign on the dotted line for you, are all realistic. Nobody in the game acts differently or talks 
 differently from their real life counter parts. Trust me, try out the story first before throwing 
 this game in the trash. It worked for me, I honestly hope it helps some that bought this game and 
 is disappointed. Try to give it a second shot for those thats threw it away in a matter of seconds. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MicK765
Rating: 8.7
Date: Mar 19, 2007 7:21 am PT
Review:  This is a game that has been made for hip hop fans. The simple fact is that this game is based 
 around the Hip Hop music and Lifestyle. If your into heavy rock and HATE!! hip hop don't even bother 
 with this game. They tried to incorporate a my Soundtrack thing but it's not the same w/o rap.
 
  
  The graphics on this game are stunning however sometimes motion can seem a bit slow. But once you 
 have got a hang of the game it is really fun and enjoyable, but sometimes frustrating. This game 
 has great sound, with a good selection of songs from a whole bunch of rappers.
  
  But if you can complete the story mode you will find yourself doing it all over again Awesome game 
 i give it 8.7 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Metspeter
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 18, 2007 9:25 am PT
Review:  it has crazy backgrounds moving just like to the beat. i liked it the first day when i bought it. 
 I continued to play it for 2-3 days. If you played the original def jam 1 and Second one, then 
 you will see huge difference. you definitely will like this game if you are into fighting games. 
 it is cool that you have control of your money for brochure of your rappers asking you what they 
 need. The storyline is amazing, better than the first and the second one. im disappointed in one 
 thing, it does not have many game modes, like tag team, everyone for themselves. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: UTfan1883
Rating: 7.9
Date: Mar 17, 2007 7:36 pm PT
Review:  I liked the first Def Jam, and I'll admit I skipped the second but this one is the best yet.
  The graphics are well done. The clothes even move while attacking your opponent. The color change 
 made when someone is close to being finished is a nice touch.
  The sound could have been better. Although throughout the story, nice VOs are done, you are not 
 able to pick your own voice. The taunts beyond lame, and some of the tracks EA provided were weak.
 
  The gameplay has evolved since I last played. I liked the wrestling, but this game is just straight 
 fighting. The game was still fun, but everything in the story led to a fight. I find it hard to believe 
 that a producer would fight Lil' Jon in a fist fight just to sign another rapper to his label.
 
  Overall, you probably won't want this game too long. Every achievement is earned online, or on 
 the difficulty of hard. No easy ones here. The game, while good, just gets plain repetitive after 
 a while. Rental only. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maxmax1234
Rating: 8.4
Date: Mar 17, 2007 7:01 am PT
Review:  So the gameplay is hard i totally agree, the story line awsome, could have more players in it, graphics 
 are fantastic.
  
  Te gameplay is really hard if you just start, and you really have a hard time adjusting towards 
 those. but if you've done that, its really fun and awsome to play and basicly WIN!
  
  The story is really good, and absolutly not something you play every day, you need to build a label 
 and release songs. thats really fun and really keeps you in the game.
  
  There are a whole bunch of players in it, but not who you would expect. no jay-z, run dmc, mc hammer, 
 you would expect them to be in the game, and guess what... they aren't!
  
  Graphics, the players look good in the beginning of a match, but after the match there clothing 
 will be torn apart and they would really have bruises on there face, and thats awsome to see.
 
  
  Overall good and exciting game, absolutly a recommender if you have the patience to learn the game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RottNKorpse
Rating: 1.3
Date: Mar 16, 2007 7:02 pm PT
Review:  It really pisses me off that they dropped AKI because AKI is my favorite developer... I've never 
 played an AKI game that I didn't like.
  
  This game is basically a SLOOOOOW paced hip-hop based of Fight Night. It looks like all they did 
 was take the Fight Night engine and tweak it to fit a rap style.
  
  The sound and graphics are very nice but what makes a game a great game? GAMEPLAY!!! I still play 
 an old AKI game on the N64 because the gameplay is superb.
  
  The enviroment stuff is cool and the turn table thing is a nice idea but it gets so boring after 
 a while because thats the only fun part about the game.. the actual fighting engine is a boring 
 piece of crap.
  
  Another thing that sucks is they took out SO MANY characters... Wheres N. O. R. E, Capone, Keith Murray. 
 Mobb Deep, and WC? wheres Busta Rhymes? Too Short? Ice-T? Flava Flav? COME ON EA, wheres DMX, Joe 
 Budden, Bubba Sparxxx, Xzibit and FMF!!!
  
  There is only one thing I barely like about this game and thats the fact that it has xbox live 
 support but who really wants to play something online that they dont even want to play.
  
  Def Jam : Vendetta (created by AKI) = Great Game
  Def Jam : Fight for NY (created by AKI) = OUT-FREAKIN-STANDING
 
  Def Jam : ICON (EA Chicago) = Piece of goat crap 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Killer_Prey
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 16, 2007 2:17 pm PT
Review:  Def Jam: Icon had a very interesting new idea to add to gameplay, which is the new dj table controls 
 and of course online play which is new to the Def Jam series. The Graphics in the game are amazing; 
 the character models in the game were very realistic and really looked exactly how the rappers 
 should look like. The Story mode: Build a Label is was the fun part of the game by letting us create 
 our own character and having to sign artists to release songs to make money and hits, Also the 
 twisted story is what gives Def Jams shine. The sound quality is well done, when having music 
 playing in the background and having it bumping to the beat. Online is another fun factor of this 
 game, fighting others online is fun. Plus, to top off the online you can get special chains unlocked 
 by getting a certain number of wins, played matches, and getting winning streaks. The only things 
 that lets this game down is the lack of artists and for some reason getting cut off during online 
 play. The Achievements in the game are somewhat easy and some dont make sense to get like the 
 reversals and directional attacks are kind of hard to get. So, if you liked the previous def jam 
 games give this game a chance. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bp275
Rating: 7.9
Date: Mar 16, 2007 3:31 am PT
Review:  This game is for the lonely gangsta wanting a real life and that tells you rent it first cuz if 
 you waste $55 on this hunk of **** then sorry man all i can tell you is not to open the plastic 
 wrap and send it back bcause that'll suck if you pay before you play for this one. You know how 
 they say never judge a book by its cover well screw that judge! judge! judge! Normally people are 
 turned off by the name def jam because they judge! and thats why they are smart! Who really wants 
 a game that has 2 home boys beating the crap out of each other? I dont! Why dont hey make a game 
 about how home boys really fight in the hood. With guns ,knives and shanks. I mean come on would 
 you beat up a guy that made your dead homie your dead homie in the first place. Depending on who 
 it is I would pull out a 9mm on him and BOOM!! hes gone in a flash! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: redgoddog
Rating: 1
Date: Mar 15, 2007 9:26 pm PT
Review:  This game is the worst game on the planet... the controls suck, the music keeps on repeating, and 
 when your trying to defeat your opponent.. you cant because a damn stage light is going to fall 
 on your head.... this game pissed me off so bad I BROKE A CONTROLLER!!! maybe that wouldn't have 
 happened if PAUL WALL would DIE!!!!! im telling you this game is a complete waste of time and money.. 
 music never stops, and the character creation is bad ... the words are to small to read... what 
 ever you do .. DON'T BUY THIS GAME!!!!
  
  the A. I. in this game are from HELL 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tellee
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 15, 2007 8:02 pm PT
Review:  I think they are headed in the right direction with the series this is real life street fighting 
 no over exagerated blazing moves which I think is cool cause some of the blazing moves in fight 
 for ny were outrageous. They could have added special attacks other than the haymaker to give each 
 character there own little flavor maybe something like the special puches in fight night. All an 
 all a great game and gaming expeirience def jam really shines online I never get tired of scraping 
 its all punch for punch kick for kick block for block slam for slam until the best man wins. The 
 enviormental hazards are the only thing thats exagerated other then that this is just grown man 
 scraping and if u cant appreciate that go play street fighter or dragon ball z this aint for u. 
 I think u should have been able to use weopons but they have 2 leave us something to want for this 
 is just the beginning but its shaping up to be a hell of a franchise 
::::::

::::::
UserName: --ScorpZ --
Rating: 5.8
Date: Mar 15, 2007 7:17 pm PT
Review:  Everybody was just anticipating for the next Def Jam came to come out after Vendetta came out they 
 followed it up with a 20 times better game in Fight for New York. After fight for new york was 
 probaly one of the top 100 ps2 games ever made they follow it up with this crap!!. Just when people 
 thought the def jam series couldnt get ne better they were right. It wouldnt get better it wouldnt 
 even stay at the same level as the previous it would actually down grade. This game has succesfully 
 pissed me off as being the Top 5 dissapointing games ever made. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fathomglow
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 15, 2007 3:46 pm PT
Review:  As a fighting game fan, the Def Jam series (especially FFNY) holds a special place amongst my other 
 games. First, it was the first time the use of celebrity characters was implemented rather well 
 and second, it was the first time Ill admit that I enjoyed a quasi-wrestling game. So while I 
 will most likely time and again compare it to Fight for New York (FFNY) , I see it as only natural 
 as one would assume a sequel to be the natural evolution of a game series. For those familiar with 
 the series, the Def Jam fighting games pit a usually large roster of rappers and celebrities against 
 each other in often brutal and stylized combat. Def Jam Icon is no different and includes a similarly 
 large roster of its veteran fighters (albeit now sporting their real names for the most part) and 
 adds some new fighters, mostly made up of currently popular rappers. Celebrity fighters have been 
 taken out for the most part, much to the dismay of Carmen Elektra and Kimora Lee Simmons fans Im 
 sure, and its strictly rappers (and the fictional ensemble cast for the single player story mode) 
 now. Women fighters have also disappeared as a whole. If the roster isnt enough for you, the F. A. C. E 
 feature allows you to create your own fighter with a pretty intuitive system of options. While 
 the system is similar to that of Fight Night Round 3, there have been harsh criticisms (check the 
 Def Jam Icon forums) of the new system and its inability to make fighters that are not African 
 American. While some of the options are indeed limited, it should be enough for the casual gamer 
 to play with. The fighters themselves are graphically great, and many do look very much like their 
 real life counterparts. Many people have bought the game for this novelty.
  
  The gameplay of the fights itself has been entirely changed from the original Def Jam and FFNY 
 formula. Clearly based on Fight Night R3, the gameplay is slower paced and plays out much like 
 a stylized rock, paper, scissors game. Which while it sounds good in theory, may not be such a 
 good thing. Normal strikes are countered by blocks, which are then countered by throws, which can 
 be prevented by a fast strike and so on. The normal strikes are now only categorized as high and 
 low/fast and fierce, and you can no longer control whether the hit thrown is a punch or a kick. 
 The grab feature still does what grab does in most fighting games, but the finishers from FFNY 
 have been removed in favor of takedowns, which are basically a trip or throw that does only marginally 
 more damage than a normal hit. There is also a heavy strike which be performed my swirling the 
 right analog. The depth to the fighting styles has also been simplified. Instead of the previous 
 styles (martial artist, street, wrestler) and mixes of styles, fighters are now limited to a single 
 style complete with its own ebonics title. The differences amongst them is minimal and is for the 
 most part largely cosmetic.
  
  While the game is based on Fight Night Round 3, it seems as if it just didnt get it right. Fights 
 seem tediously paced, as if Fight Night was slowed down. This can incredibly frustrating sometimes, 
 as your fighters literally walk around like theres nothing happening. There is a roll dodge maneuver, 
 but it only large useful for a retreat as using it to close with the enemy usually means a foot 
 in the face. And so for the most part you spend the fight circling each other waiting for the guy 
 to hit first so you can counter. If theres one thing that Def Jam Icon has been thus far advertised 
 for, its the fight with music (anyone remember that KISS arcade shooter years ago with the same 
 tag line) feature. The idea itself is very novel, each fighter chooses a fight song or anthem and 
 then uses it to gain an advantage in the fight, the levels pulsate to the bass beat of the song 
 and it triggers environmental hazards. The idea is great but the implementation is actually shallower 
 than touted once you really start playing the game. Basically, you use the two analog sticks to 
 control the music via air scratch tables. Unfortunately theres really only two things you can 
 do usefully with this. The first is change the song thats playing to your anthem, which gives 
 your fighter a slight speed and power advantage. And second, when the enemy fighter lands, is thrown 
 or is standing near an environmental hazard you can activate it usually sending him sprawling (and 
 often hitting you at the same time) to the floor.
  
  The environmental hazards themselves sometimes become more of an annoyance than a feature as there 
 are some hazards that are simply unavoidable. Its quite annoying when youve got the other fighter 
 reeling from your blows and suddenly having an errant light fixture fall on your or manhole cover 
 blow you back. Most fights center on fighting directly in the center of the stage as trying to 
 pin an opponent on a corner can sometimes be hazardous to both of you. The Xbox 360 has a option 
 to use your own fight song, but unfortunately its limited to the Custom Sountrack mode.
  
  In the end Def Jam Icon turned out to be not exactly what all the previous Def Jam fans expected. 
 Instead of being the next evolutionary step in the fighter/wrestler, its creators have decided 
 to try a new system for the series entirely. As such, the game hits few need kid on the block hiccups. 
 Thats not to say the game is bad, the graphics are a sight to behold and the sheer number of liscenced 
 music is amazing, but fans expecting a next-gen iteration of Def Jam FFNY might be turned off by 
 the change. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chronos_GF
Rating: 8.4
Date: Mar 15, 2007 1:35 pm PT
Review:  Its a very good game, but they should kept the blazin' moves. but it still great game to play. 
 i understand you can use music to become an icon, but i like the blazin better. the gameplay is 
 excellent, story line is excellent., its just a good game to play, i like it, its great. I still 
 dont understant that why they took out the blazin moves, i thought it was stupid at first, but 
 it ended up as an awsome game. those who like fighting games must definetly get def jam icon, but 
 i kind of like def jam fight for ny just a tinny better, cause they still have blazin' moves. but 
 def jam icon has most of my favorite rappers, and thats one of the reason why i like the game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jackson84
Rating: 8.1
Date: Mar 15, 2007 10:26 am PT
Review:  Icons only has a slight edge over Def Jam: Fight for NY...... only because of the graphics. I hoped 
 they would carry over the same game play from Def Jam: Fight for NY to Icons. Don't get me wrong 
 but the throwing your enemy to the speakers and watch them fly across the room is fun in all but 
 everything before that is slow. The combos are good but they're just too slow. Makes the fight 
 last long..... I also thought each character have there own finishing moves. Why did they take 
 that out of Icons...... It would of been great to see the types of moves on the 360. That was the 
 main reason why i brought the game! I mean the game is fun to play don't get me wrong but the fight 
 is just too too slow. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nickdastick
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 15, 2007 8:28 am PT
Review:  Def Jam Icon is a good game if you like fighters. It is close to great but falls short due to a 
 few hiccups in the gameplay.
  
  Gameplay: Fun but at times very annoying because you can be in a roundhouse kick and they barely 
 tap you and it stops you like you got drilled! In other words, collision detection could use a 
 touch of work. Fighting is normally very satisfying though so it's all good.
  
  Graphics: Characters and environments look awesome! Your character bruises up and can start bleeding 
 which all fighting games need!
  
  Audio: The soundtracks are sweet and the fighting noises are solid.
  
  Overall this game is 
 fun but can annoy you too (my brother about went crazy sometimes playing it!) . It's a solid outing 
 but most likely you wouldn't want to add it to your game library, you would just rent it once and 
 be done with it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dinosha
Rating: 8.1
Date: Mar 15, 2007 4:22 am PT
Review:  The last time I played head to head games like this was Tekken 3 for PS2 at a friend's house. Naturally 
 I don't buy these sort of games, but after reading the review at Gamespot I've finally decided 
 to splurge on it. One particular reason is that, despite the main versus genre, you can take the 
 stakes at marketing your own label, something like Death Row or Shady. Yes of course, it's fictional 
 and virtual right down to the greens, but the music is not. Tracks you get are real. Once you've 
 revved up some style points after beating your opponents stylishly, you could even hook up artists 
 to sign up on your label and release their songs. All in your fingertips will be the budgeting 
 for marketing, airplay, promos and such. It all depends on how much you want to spend and invest. 
 You reap what you sow.
  
  Combat is somewhat similar from the previous Def Jam titles. Learning curve for me is a little 
 steep, since I had trouble getting blocks. Controls are pretty adjustable so you might find a way 
 to your liking. The unique thing to complement the combat arsenal is the DJ controls. You will 
 be able to put the hostile environment to your advantage, by pulling a DJ scratch. The environmental 
 hazards in-game can be deadly and useful as you progress further into the game. Apart from that 
 you can use song switching, which acts as a bonus for extra attack power.
  
  There's a variety of fighting styles, from the Ghetto Blaster to the Jah Breaker, 6 in total. Each 
 has it's own strengths and weaknesses, but you can earn them as you progress.
  
  Dealing with people in the game needs money too. As you get richer, you'll tend to spend for them, 
 not just on you. Apart from shopping for the hip blings and clothes to boost your style points, 
 you'll spend on artists' sound wares and even cars. Take it as an investment to keep their relationship 
 level healthy with you.
  
  So far, I've got Ludacris and Mike Jones under my record label, and Redman keeps things swell for 
 me. My finger is twitching to grab the controller, but reality calls and I got to work tomorrow 
 morning. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SlayerX13
Rating: 7.2
Date: Mar 15, 2007 2:19 am PT
Review:  Great graphics, good music (if you like club rap) , but shallow fighting engine, very shallow. Why 
 did they change it?!?
  
  The old AKI wrestling engine was the best part of Def Jam previous games but, EA, in their infinte 
 wisdom (sarcasm) , felt they need to remove and, replace it with a simple, watered down, lack luster 
 fighting engine.
  
  Sluggish, repeatitive, and shallow is the best description of the gameplay. If you are a die hard 
 rap fan the game is great. If you are like me and don't get jiggy with the MTV rap skip this game.
 
  
  It's visually gorgeous but, thats about it. As I count in my head I can only recall 9 attacks per 
 character. Including the normal high and low attacks. with grapples it would be 14 I think. Either 
 way. This is no true fighting game.
  
  Honestly I think Def Jams sent the reviewers some ladies to pump up the review. That or they where 
 completely blinded by the visuals. It's all gimmicks no meat. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ps2Viper87
Rating: 5.4
Date: Mar 14, 2007 10:47 pm PT
Review:  When Def Jam Vendetta came out I went and bought it for Ps2 and I thought it was the most awesome 
 fighting game I have played in a long time. It was a very fast-paced game, had an ineresting story 
 line and it was just all out fun (until I beat it atleast then it just sat on my shelf) . Then they 
 releast Def Jam: Fight for NY and it was a huge jump from DJ: Vendetta. It had a deeper, brouder, 
 and more interesting story line and the game had more features like weapons, moves, training, etc. 
 And like DJ: Vendetta before it, it was a fast-paced fighting game.
  I downloaded the demo to Dej Jam Icon a few days ago on my 360 off of XBOX Live and I was pretty 
 dissappointed. The one good thing I liked with the game were the beautiful graphics in the game. 
 And even those were not as great as say Oblivion or F. E. A. R.! The game is very slow paced and the 
 characters that you control while fighting move like snails. They look more like they're pushing 
 each other around rather than throwing fast punches and throwing each other around on cars and 
 into cashes and such. I dont know this Def Jam just didnt hit it for me and I didnt enjoy it near 
 as much as the other two before it. Maybe if they made the gameplay and animation ALOT faster I 
 would have enjoyed it more but its just too sluggish. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sailmaster2000
Rating: 5
Date: Mar 14, 2007 3:52 pm PT
Review:  I just think that they really did a bad job witht he game play, they didn't take enough advantage 
 of the ease of use you cvan get with the the controller!!! The first Def Jam was definatly better 
 then the first, which is usually the case with most sequals, but this one takes the cake.
  
  After the fisrt hour or so i finally started getting used to how the controls work... and after 
 frustrating loss after loss, thought i was getting the hang of it. After beating a few guys i though 
 i was getting pretty good, but concentrating too much on switching songs, and keeping the guy down 
 only to be defeated because he threw me into more objects. This game just frustrates rather then 
 entertain, so if you feel like having an anurism tonight, play def jam: icon. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WillerX
Rating: 7.4
Date: Mar 14, 2007 12:20 pm PT
Review:  The Good: -Has a large roster of artists to choose from including one of my all time favorites 
 Lil Jon -The fighting styles are cool and have original names like Street kwan doe, Muay Fly, Ghetto 
 blaster, etc. -Create a label mode is long and expansive -You can create your own character, buy 
 his clothes and jewelry, get him tattoos, give him his own fight song and fighting style -The levels 
 react to the beat of the music you are listening too whether it be the games soundtrack or your 
 own music that you downloaded on your 360 or off your mp3 player that you can link up with a USB 
 cable -The first EA game with a decent soundtrack, and its completely unscensored -Graphics are 
 amazing -Online multiplayer The Bad: -The core fighting of the game I found was way too slow, and 
 that it didnt work too well with the new control scheme that seemed to be like fight night just 
 not good
  
  -The career mode can get a little repetitive -I didnt enjoy the turn table moves that they added 
 to the game, makes the AI very repetitive in their movements 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spidermanc2k
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 14, 2007 7:17 am PT
Review:  It was only a matter of time before a new Def Jam game hit the scene. For the past few years, Def 
 Jam and EA have been able to put their heads together and actually take the concepts of Hip-Hop 
 and fighting games and create one the most unlikely sleeper sucesses. Although underlying premise 
 of using a famous rapper to beat down on your opponents is still here, this new generation of systems 
 has given developers the abilities to try new and exciting things that may not have been possible 
 before. However, in the case of Def Jam icon, sometimes you shouldn't try to fix something that 
 wasn't broken.
  
  The game throws a few modes at you to play around with, including varations on your standard versus 
 or pick up and play mode, as well as its own create a fighter. However, the main focus of this 
 game will no doubt be its build a label mode.
  
  The build a label mode is basically the games story mode. In it, you create your very own fighter/producer 
 that you will use most of the time to take care of different tasks. As a young, up and coming producer, 
 its your job to do whatever it takes to sign rappers in the game to your label. In order to do 
 this, you must first gain a rapper's trust by doing a favor for them such as beating up nosey paparazzi 
 or rival rappers. Eventually, after enough favors, the rapper will sign to your label, start making 
 songs and the money will begin to roll in. With the money you earn, you have sign more rappers, 
 keep the one's already signed happy, and manage your music in the most profitable way possible. 
 You'll also be able to buy all types of clothes and jewelery to deck out your character, which 
 is a nice touch.
  
  Although the story won't break any new ground, it does tell an interesting hip-hop flavored story 
 if that sort of thing interests you. There's a lot of twists and turns here that could have easily 
 been a movie or at least a straight to video feature. The voice acting is pretty good at time as 
 well, since a lot of the characters in the game are voiced by real actors who also have their actual 
 likeness modeled in the game.
  
  Graphically, this game looks good. Character models of main characters in the story as well as 
 the game's selection of rappers look very lifelike. Although they are not quite the same quality 
 of say, Fight Night Round 3 models, they still do not dissapoint. I would probably be more please 
 with all of the character models in the game, but for some reason the female characters in the 
 story mode just don't look as realistic as the male models do. However, I have no complaints about 
 the backgrounds in the game. As far as graphics are concerened, the stages in the game steal the 
 show and really round out the package with the bright colors and thumping images.
  
  If you're a fan of hip-hop music, then you'll love this game. It features some of the hottest tracks 
 out right now, and is sure to please the fans with this extensive soundtrack. The main thing keeping 
 this game down is the fighting system. Using music and the background as part of the gameplay was 
 a good idea and works fine. However, there should have been more substance involved with the fighting 
 itself. At its root, Icon is a button masher pure and simple ( right analog moves or not) . Often 
 times, it seem like it takes about 90% luck to land a hit or a throw on someone, and the computer 
 itself seems to be able to it at will. Its pretty much a rock-paper-scissors affair and it gets 
 old quickly. Instead of adding to the experience that AKI gave in Fight for New York, EA Chicago 
 instead went backwards. I suppose that this makes the game more accessible and easier to play, 
 but really it just makes it a pale shadow of its predecessors.
  
  Although Build a Label is interesting, there really isn't much else to the game that will really 
 keep you coming back for more long after its done. Although the game is pretty and has a great 
 soundtrack, once you get past all of that and get right down to gameply, this game starts wear 
 out its welcome. With a little more time spent working on the fighting engine, this game could 
 have been great. I would only suggest this game to the most hardcore of Def Jam and hip-hop fans. 
 For those looking for a highly replayable fighting game, look elsewhere.
  
  Buy if: You really love hip-hop music in your games and really don't care about a deep fighting 
 system.
  
  Rent: If you really love hip-hop music in your games but hate that AKI didn't make the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GamersinceAtari
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 13, 2007 6:46 am PT
Review:  DJ Icon has a decent storyline, however, the game seems and feels rushed to a certain extent. That 
 is there are limitations in the gameplay, where obvious creative solutions could of been implemented. 
 More specifically the build a label mode could of had more girls, nonlinear story. Furthermore, 
 the use of objects around the stage is not a bad idea, thus without furthering the detail of these 
 elements, I turn to actual gameplay. That is the fighting is rather slow, kind of like the change 
 that happened in FN2 into FN3. Many of the elements in the previous DJ was lost for a no game condition... 
 all and all the game was a letdown which emphasized graphics over gameplay. ( I do admit the first 
 minutes of the game are rather enjoyable, however, even this lead to boredom. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nobaxus
Rating: 8.4
Date: Mar 12, 2007 5:37 pm PT
Review:  To start this review off, let me just say that you should in no way be playing (or reviewing for 
 that matter) this game if you hate rap music. Honestly, giving this game low scores just because 
 you don't like the music genre? That is a little lame folks.
  
  Alright, enough ranting. I spent a good deal of time playing the game, and I found it to be quite 
 an enjoyable experience. I love the level design, and the sound and musical quality is superb. 
 The fighting is a little different from most fighters, in that it is quite a bit slower-paced, 
 but that doesn't mean the game is bad. The majority of time I spent playing this game was the multiplayer, 
 which I discovered is a real hoot when you have a buddy or two to play with. The single player 
 is well thought-out, and the story and the way it develops is quite interesting. As I mentioned, 
 the level design is quite spectacular. Different aspects of the levels move to the beat of whatever 
 song is playing, and add a really nice style to the game. The interactivity within each level is 
 quite amazing as well, giving you the ability to light your opponents on fire by blowing-up a nearby 
 gas pump. Or you could cause some damage by throwing them into a helicopter tail. The fighting 
 itself is quite fun, though it is by no means perfect. As I mentioned before, it feels a little 
 slow. The speed of the combat isn't what hinders the game however, what does is how simple the 
 controls become after a little time with them. Even though the fighting is definately enjoyable, 
 it just doesn't have as much depth as I would like.
  
  The soundtrack is excellent, and even though I'm not the biggest fan of rap and hip-hop, I still 
 enjoy it. The way the music is implemented through the use of the turntable moves is quite excellent 
 as well. Basically, you hold down the left trigger and move the thumbsticks in order to change 
 the song. While the game is playing your song, you gain an attack bonus, so it is definitely worth 
 making sure your song is always playing. You can also use the right thumbstick to rewind the song 
 and activate the levels various danger zones.
  
  In conclusion, I would recommend at least renting this game, even if rap and hip-hop isn't your 
 thing. It's definately above average, and the stuff it got right overshadows the things it didn't. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: csutherl
Rating: 3.8
Date: Mar 12, 2007 12:29 pm PT
Review:  Bottom Line....
  This Game Blows!!!
  
  What no finishing moves, a bunch of lethargic kicks and punches.
  Dont waste your money, the 
 old DEF JAMS are way better.
  I don't know what type of quality control EA has now a days, but this one definetly slipped by....
 
  Graphics and Sound don't make a game, it never has. It's all about the controls and gameplay and 
 the rest fall into play, just a little suggestion for you EA folks.
  
  I'm only writting jibberish now, because this forum won't except less then 100 words, there's nothing 
 else to say about such a worthless game. Oh yea, the same is true about NBA Homecourt. It's nice 
 and pretty but the game is boring as hell. I would Vol 2,3 anyday over this piece of crap game.
 
  Good job EA 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gdog988
Rating: 6.9
Date: Mar 12, 2007 10:47 am PT
Review:  its still good but gets boring fast and its too easy i havnt beat the game yet but my room mate 
 has and i have to take his word for it and say the game is too short and has lots of glitches and 
 it has good music but it deosnt play the whole song it just loops the song and the music should 
 be bought or somthing not won by an award and thay should put back the gym to train your fighter 
 but overall i still like the game i just suggjust that you rent it first this game is not for every 
 one 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kriz24c
Rating: 2.8
Date: Mar 11, 2007 3:30 pm PT
Review:  when i 1st started playing i had high hopes for this game graphics were nice the turntables were 
 a nice new feature and seemed like alot of options with shopping and promoting artists. Soon after 
 u start playing u realize that whether u are 15 hours into game or 1 hour its exactly the same 
 theres no character customization in terms of increasing your fighting skills u pick from 1 of 
 5 or 6 styles and thats it never changes or gets better. The computer back at your crib is just 
 something to give the impression that there is more to this gamne then there is. I believe wethere 
 u invest your entire fortune to an artist or 0 the outcome will basically be the same just an illusion 
 u have control in this area. The option to buy clothing jewelery and get tattoos looks promising 
 to at start but there is almost no new items by end of game as there was from start. The fighting 
 itself which the game is really about FAILS misserably. Each fight is basically won on luck and 
 not of skill, have had many fights where i dominated the entire fight but lost the upper hand for 
 a short period and wound up losing. The lack of any kind of hud is nice in most games but in this 
 game i feel its almost a way for computer to cheat seems as if NPC has almost 3 times the amount 
 of energy u do. During the fight the npcs seem to recover from knockdowns instantly while it will 
 take u 5 secs to return to feet agtain giving them chance to switch songs or hit u with dj hazard. 
 Dont get me started on there constant ability to throw u right into the perfect spot for a dj hazard 
 over and over even if all the way across board. For the most part graphics are nice and music is 
 good for any rap fan but every other aspect of the game is an absolute mess. I say rent 1st and 
 see if u still like few hours later but personally dont think its worth the fee it cost to rent. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fixrox
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 11, 2007 1:41 pm PT
Review:  This is hands-down the best looking game currently available on the XBOX 360. The character models 
 are spot on, the backgrounds are phenomenal, and the contrasts in lighting are unlike anything 
 I've ever seen.
  
  For a fighter, the game play is a bit sluggish, but nothing that can't be overcome after getting 
 over the learning curve. There's blocks, high/low attacks, and extra-strong attacks executed using 
 the right analog stick much similar to the fight night controls.
  
  What makes this game stand out is the use of the environments in the fight, which differs from 
 venue to venue. Various creative environmental hazards such as exploding gas pumps, camera cranes, 
 tail whips from a pimped out impala, and super sonic speakers can be used to send your opponent 
 flying after a successful knockdown by scratching (holding LT and turning the right analog stick 
 clockwise/counterclockwise) . This really is the only way to defeat your opponent as punches and 
 kicks simply won't do the job. In different game modes you can execute these maneuvers manually, 
 or you have to time these attacks to the beat of the music. Furthermore, you can change songs between 
 your designated song and your opponents song. After successfully doing so, the lighting changes 
 dramatically, creating a very different atmosphere depending which song is playing and is a very 
 aesthetically pleasing effect.
  
  This game is worth at least a rental just to take in the graphical marvel this game is, however 
 whether or not the game play is worth a purchase is up to the individual player. Aside from the 
 fighting in career mode, your character is signing various recognizable artists, setting budgets 
 for albums releases which in turn generate revenue for you to spend on clothes/jewelry, keeping 
 your girlfriend and entourage happy, and for future record budgets. All-in-all I think this game 
 is better than most people are giving it credit for, and if it's rap that you have a problem with, 
 well plug in your iPod and get your kicks to the tune of Lamb of God if that's your thing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarbyXCrash
Rating: 8.1
Date: Mar 11, 2007 12:20 pm PT
Review:  I really like several aspects of this game, and it is fun for anyone who either likes or hates 
 rap. Listening to The Warriors or Death By Stereo while pounding the $hit out of these guys is 
 unbeatable. It's different than the earlier ones, but can still hold its own. Frustrating at times, 
 it could have been a little more fine tuned and immersive, with more characters like FFNY, but 
 in the end is still a game that is worth playing. The character customization returns as well, 
 with more details and options to your character looks more like you (or whoever you make) . The 
 graphics are awesome, too, body movement, muscles, and facial expressions are convincing enough 
 that my dad thought it was a movie. Fun time, unique game, and, while its not for everyone, it 
 will certainly satisfy a lot of you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rane092
Rating: 4.4
Date: Mar 11, 2007 10:31 am PT
Review:  This is an honest non-biased review. I rented this game (thankfully) , for the gamerscore points, 
 but I am not even sure that alone is worth suffering through it. First of all, I have not played 
 any of the previous Def Jam games, so before you come to the conclusion that I hate this game because 
 it isn't like the others, just know that.
  
  Like another reviewer said, fighting games should have a speed limit, this game made me feel like 
 I was on acid; it was THAT slow.
  
  The graphics are really the only redeeming factor. The venues are beautiful and mix well with the 
 characters. But in Build a Label mode, you will see about 3 over the 8-10 you get. So basically 
 it is very repetitive and feels like you have been in the same fight for a very long time.
  
  The gameplay is horrendous. The only good thing is you can link high and low attacks very smoothly, 
 why shouldn't you be able to though? The game is slower than a golf cart on the freeway.
  
  The sound is good, if you like rap. That is all I am going to say, besides I am a rock guy.
  
 
  I think flipping a coin has more replay value than this game.
  
  All in all, I hate this game, don't buy it. I tried to like it, but I only got 400 GS points before 
 I quit playing and took it back to Blockbuster. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gmboot
Rating: 4.8
Date: Mar 10, 2007 11:06 pm PT
Review:  Man they dropped the ball on this. Honestly, the graphics are great, but game play and depth are 
 really weak. In their effort to make it like real life they took all the fun out of the game. Instead 
 of being bigger and better, it smaller and weaker. All to often when you think you have learn the 
 moves of you character you find that the control system makes it difficult to reproduce. The addition 
 of making the environment part of the game is cool but half the time it doesn't work for you. But 
 it sure works all the time for the AI. Miss the finishers from NY too. The mix of MMA / Street 
 fighting and Wrestling in NY was cool. Another great part of the first two games (especially NY) 
 was the ability to gear up your character. We all were expecting a lot more choices, but got less 
 than half of what was out there in NY. It was like the game was rushed. The game is short too. 
 Just finished it. NY when the game turned in the middle you had just reached the halfway point. 
 In Icon it darn near over. The blew it. I hope someone is planning on a 4th instance of the game 
 and they manage to combine the best of 1 and 2 and mix it with the graphics of Icon. That would 
 have been the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ranger_waha
Rating: 4.7
Date: Mar 10, 2007 9:39 pm PT
Review:  I watched this game played, and I must say, unless you REALLY like rap, don't bother. You may be 
 thinking to yourself, Hey, it looks pretty Well, it does. But I could have sworn there was constant 
 lag during singler player, until I noticed that's how the game is supposed to be. It's kind of 
 wrong. Maybe realistic, but that's where the realism ends. You see, you seem to be able to scratch 
 or move your hand in am otion resembling turntables. This might sound likea taunt, but it's actually 
 a reality manipulation taactic, somehow. When your char. does this motion, time screws up, the 
 clouds either stop or zoom across the screen, and the surrounding area gets destroyed a little. 
 I. E. A house almost breaks in two.
  
  Furthermore, hitting someone sends off little soundwaves. Odd.
  
  Basically, if you like fighting 
 games, you probably won't like Icon.
  If you like rap, you probably will. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Riuy1
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 10, 2007 2:34 pm PT
Review:  Def Jam: Icon is the worst Def Jam game. There is no game play just no game play I love all the 
 other Def Jam games, but this one sucks yes it has a great story but the fighting poor it the most 
 basic moves with no combs and there no one with there own move set there only the 6 styles it make 
 me mad that everything change I like the old Def Jam games but this is very poor the build a label 
 is something new that dose work good for the game but I feel it need to be longer and one more 
 thing were the finishing moves? Bring back the old Def Jam 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FOO_JY
Rating: 8.4
Date: Mar 10, 2007 11:23 am PT
Review:  Ok so here it is : Def Jam Icon. A long awaited sequel from Def Jam Fight For NY (At least it was 
 for me) .
  
  First, the game modes aren't new at all. Which make any fans from the recent games a little bit 
 at home. Second, the gameplay is all-new. So ppl will need a little checking into the instruction 
 booklet since they don't really explain the controls in the game. That's about the bad parts. Now 
 what's new other than the controls ?? Everything. The new areas are absolutely incredible and the 
 players themselves will fall into the sweetness they give with all the background details (They 
 certainly did a great job with those) . The story mode (build a label) is intense and really addictive. 
 You'll have to sign and manage artists like Ludacris, Young Jeezy and Sean Paul. You'll have to 
 decide how much $ you'll spend on marketing, air time, PR etc. Even sometimes ppl will ask you 
 for personal favors ( like bulletproof glasses on their car, a new vase for your girlfriend etc.) 
 That's about it, if any of these seems to give some interests, you should consider (at least) a 
 rent. But I'm pretty sure you'll be asking for more !!!
  
  So in a major way, this game is awesome an needs to be played more than 5 minutes :P 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RUFF1807
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 10, 2007 8:11 am PT
Review:  ya its pretty good but whne i started playin i relized thers no blazin, no crowds to help you out 
 in the game. story mode is so confusing like u creat ur person then it shwios da futhure about 
 when that big recored preducer got shot and then it gos back to u and whats ur guy is doin. the 
 controls are pretty hard 2 figure out tho if u play da game for a few hours it all starts 2 lean 
 in, and i herd aaaaalll thses rumers sayin all thses people where gonna be in it and thers only 
 like 20 or 17 people in it, and i also herd that u can buy yots and houses and cars and u can barly 
 do that eather and that was a bug let down
  
  
  the good side of the game i like are the dj controls those are pretty good and thgey help u beat 
 the person faster, and i like the jelwery options it realy cool that u can get grills and that
 
  
  whats realy sucks in that when u pick clothes u can drag ur pants or pull up a pants lag, u cant 
 where ur bandana a certint way, and neer the end of the story mode ur gusy gets shot and thne method 
 man take u to that doctor and thne u gotta re-creat ur guys face
  
  
  but any ways it a good game for u and ur friends 2 play so ummm have fun with it and atleats give 
 it a try its worth it.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dumbgrim
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 10, 2007 2:31 am PT
Review:  Def Jam: Icon plays well enough, but it really shines thanks to its crazy story mode and healthy 
 roster.
  Def jam gives u a great idea of cool street fighting. you can fight in the streets . differnt people 
 have cooler moves. You can do almost the same stuff like what u can do on tekken. this game is 
 the best out of the drf jam games. if u are a fan of def jam buy it now. the fighters in def jam 
 are real homey fighters in other words they look cool. the characters looks like normal african 
 or white americans they do not look like tekken characters 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cj87144
Rating: 4.4
Date: Mar 9, 2007 11:07 pm PT
Review:  Trust me, this game... it so damn horrible. There hasnt been a game before that I hated so much. 
 To start off, it dosent tell you crap on how to play. there is no way at all to tell how much health 
 you have, other than your character weezing every time they throw a punch. Not to mention, you 
 have not a clue whats going on with the economic side of it all. This game has made me hate rap, 
 rather, just any that has any affiliation to this very horrid game. If it could tell you more on 
 how to even work the damn game, then it would be better... but... damn. honestly after playing, 
 I felt a little bit more dead inside. But on lighter news, the graphics are some of the best in 
 a fighter I have seen. If they had more than 12 or so different tracks it would've gotten a better 
 score. All this game is, is something for cheap thrills, dont burn a full 60$ on it. If you really 
 want to play it, rent it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: orionthescorpio
Rating: 6
Date: Mar 9, 2007 10:51 am PT
Review:  I can't believe how much this game has changed... for the worse. If this is supposed to be a fighting 
 game then where is the fighting? Does anyone feel this game lacks personality?? I will give cred 
 to the graphics in this game as they are good and the environments are cool but few and I don't 
 care for the tie-in with the music to trigger explosions. If this was the type of game that EA 
 was looking for they should have started a new series and not tie this in to the Def Jam series. 
 Some of the concepts are different but what FFNY could of been a great foundation for the series 
 on the next-gen. I am truly disappointed in what could of been a real cool fighting game. EA Chicago 
 got it right with Fight Night but that formula doesn't work for the Def Jam series. I gave this 
 game a chance but I just couldn't get into it. Now it is sitting in a re-sale bin. BRING BACK THE 
 REAL DEF JAM!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: d1178
Rating: 6.9
Date: Mar 8, 2007 11:28 pm PT
Review:  i like the last one better. with tha brawls. the last game was so much more fun to play. at least 
 i can say the graphics are great with the backgrounds bumpin with the music, and explosions. the 
 build a label mode is good. it has a good story and is kind of funny . but the fighting was not 
 so good there should have been more styles, wrestling moves, finishing blows, and weapon attacks. 
 dont you think? it was a nice try with the music affecting the fight but it dosnt make up for the 
 lack of fighting moves. i wont keep this game in my collecion too long. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ssgoku2833
Rating: 7.2
Date: Mar 8, 2007 8:26 pm PT
Review:  One of things that I loved about Def Jam were the Blazing Moves . Those are gone. Character development 
 has been eliminated. No more stat building. No wrestling moves. You can grab your opponent and 
 throw them into the backround to cause extra damage. You've all seen the videos. Some fighters 
 may do a suplex and a slam here and there. But the fighting is not all that deep. Not at all. It 
 gets kind of boring.
  
  The Graphics and presentation are where this game shines. Def Jam has always had a good storyline 
 and this time it's no different. The backrounds bumping to the beats looks nice. Character models 
 are made to look exactly the rappers. Music as a weapon is a good addition.... but not a replacement 
 for the moves of before. The story, music and gameplay kept me going thru the game. In reality 
 it takes about 5 hours to get thru this title. The fights get boring after a while. But EA is going 
 in the right direction. Not in gameplay though.
  
  Rent it First. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: electric_90
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 8, 2007 6:11 pm PT
Review:  def jam icon. waited so long for its release n i can honestly say... its a pretty good game. the 
 graphics are excellent, the story line is good, n the superstars chosen to b a part of it are an 
 interesting selection. BUT.... although the game was great there are a few things that i wasnt exactly 
 thrilled about. for instance... i beat the story mode within 3 n a half to 4 hours..... what now? 
 2. remember all those superstars in fight for new york? dont xpect to c half the amount in icon. 
 and lastly, no finishing moves or flashy knockouts to take ur opponent out with. other than that, 
 great game.
  GAME RATING- A- GRAPHICS- superb 10 out of 10
  Gameplay- good 7 out of 10
  Sound-superb 10 out of 10
  
  Should we rent or buy this game?
  I mostly say that you should 
 rent it first. If you truly liked the game then you should buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jdhounshell
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 8, 2007 4:19 pm PT
Review:  Today im reviewing Def Jam ICON For the 360/PS3
  
  This game fetures a Robust Create a Player a Engageing Storymode and Plenty of fighters to back 
 it all up The Games Soundtrack is Excellent as well the 360 Has Custom Soundtrack feture where 
 you can Upload your songs in to the game and Mix em with the ALL NEW Dj Controlls wich is a Nice 
 touch but doesnt do much this Mode how Ever was left outta the PS3 Game I Am Told This games Story 
 Mode is Ever Engageing its about your Fighter and Music Mogals Elliot Carver and Troy Doller Who 
 is Played by Anthony Anderson In this Build A Label Mode its kinda Like Sims You have to Keep your 
 Artists Happy as well as Sign New ones Pay bills they make and so forth The More the Album you 
 Produced sales the More you Get Money to Build your Label up with wich means you can Buy Additional 
 Clothing and Jewelry and Tatoo's and Shoes for your fighter You can also give your fighter a Haircut 
 and change is Facial Hair arround if you desire its all up to you
  
  On To Unlockables and extras Well you get 18 fighters to start out with But You Unlock more as 
 the Storymode Kinda Progressess Im Sad to report it took me 2Days to Beat the Storymode as it was 
 Kinda Short this Year I Think that EA Chicago Coulda Done more with this mode but they didnt .
 
  
  Overall Presentation its beautafull the Graphics are great the PlayerModels are Nice and the Areanas 
 In wich you fight in are simply Stunning
  
  the Fight Night round 3 Controlls Implemented here are Kinda Slow and The Grapples while somewhat 
 Genaric are a Bit of Hit and Miss sometimes depending on what your doing
  
  Useing the Right Analog Stick to Issue spin kicks and little other goodys is a good idea but coulda 
 used more work
  
  Now on to the DJ Controlls they are a little iffy its a Nice Idea to Have the Music as a weapon 
 and the Hotspots mixed with that works well to its Credit its a Nice Idea and Hopefully in the 
 Next game they will Tweak it a little more would love to see what they can really do with this
 
  
  Overall this game is Great I've Had a Fun time playing it the Storymode kept me Entertained and 
 the Little extra touches Such as the TOP Notch Voice acting found in the game made me feel like 
 i was watching a Movie at times all the Twists and turns found here and there was really good
 
  
  Over all with the Graphics and Presnetation i feel that EA/Ea Chicago Pushed the 360 and PS3 To 
 its Limits breaking even further in to what kinda Powerhouses these systems are So heres my final 
 Score
  
  Graphics/Presentation 10.0 Great Looking Visuals
  
  Gameplay/DJ Controlls 8.5 Coulda Used a Little more tweaking
  
  Storymode 9.0 Great Voice Acting 
 Verry Engageing
  
  Create a Player 10.0 Deep N Rich Can Create A Mirror Image of my self If tryed hard enough
  
 
  FINAL SCORE 8.1 Great
  
  Reviewers Note (Need a Code to Unlock Aditonal Fighters Such as Carver and Fat Joe WTF) lol
  
 
  Noteable Menchons The Games Soundtrack for the first time in Any Def Jam Game is Completely Uncensord 
 Most of the Curseing Comes from the games sOUNDTrack so you get to really Appricate Musical lyrics 
 of what the Artist was trying to do with his Music So that Kicks Ass WTG EA 
::::::

::::::
UserName: T3h_Butt3rs
Rating: 8.4
Date: Mar 8, 2007 9:35 am PT
Review:  Def Jam: Icon is a solid fighting game with stunning visuals. The gameplay is somewhat slow for 
 its grene. The EA creators decided the gameplay to run somewhat like Fight Night: Round 3 with 
 the pace and controls of the game.
  
  Graphically the game looks gorgeous. Everything is destructible and the player models look surprising 
 good on this next-gen instalment of Def Jam.
  
  For the people out there who love rap music, this game has a superb soundtrack. All the great hits 
 from the top artist's are in playing to the ever changing scenery of the gameplay.
  
  If your not a fan of the Fight Night series or the Hip Hop scene, then this game might be a renter 
 for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: redlightningxvx
Rating: 8.7
Date: Mar 8, 2007 6:39 am PT
Review:  Def Jam icon maybe disapoiting to others just because its not like the old def jams. Its not like 
 the old def jams, but that doesnt mean its a bad game. The one on one fighting in the game is good 
 but there isnt that many fighting styles to really get alot of different combanations in the game. 
 The fighting is still fun and you have to be more selective with your strikes in this game than 
 the previous def jams. The only thing that is wrong with the gameplay is the loss of our specials 
 and the ability to throw someone halfway across the venue. The Dj controls are fun believe it or 
 not once you start using them and it takes the game in a whole new direction.
  
  The graphics are amazing and the characters look almost exactly how they really look. The only 
 thing is the color changes depending on whos winning the fight so you dont get the full effect 
 of the pretty grahics. The sound is great and plays the whole roll of the game. Depending on the 
 song is when theres gonna be a big BOOM in the game to explode one of the hazards. So playing to 
 the beat of the song is helpful.
  
  The story mode in this game is better than any of the previous ones. You become a record producer 
 and make money by beating up people and selling songs. The storyline in the game isnt bad either. 
 You can buy almost anything you want from cloths and tatoos to nice jewlery with the money you 
 earn. Money isnt that hard to get either which lets you really pick out your outfits without the 
 fear of losing all your money every five seconds. This keeps the game from being repetitive.
  
  It may not be like the other def jams but its a good game and shouldnt be overlooked just because 
 its not like the other 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: playa42018
Rating: 4.1
Date: Mar 7, 2007 8:59 pm PT
Review:  This game is a huge step backwards for the Def Jam series in terms of gameplay. Each fight is more 
 or less the same and will feel old after only a few fights. The story is one of the few good things 
 this game has to offer, but it's almost a chore to compete these fights to advance the story. Not 
 to mention the story is only about 4-5 hours long. The F. A. C. E. create-a-player is something you 
 would except to see in an EA game, a cross between Fight Night's character creation with FFNY's 
 Accessories.
  
  There are a total of 6 different fighting styles with each character in ICONS possessing just 1 
 of these different styles. For example, Big Boi &amp; Sticky Fingaz both have the Beatboxer fighting 
 style, so they fight exactly the same.
  
  The fighting styles include:
  Beatboxer
  Black Panther
  Ghetto Blaster
  Jah Breaka
  Muay Fly
  Street Kwon Do
  
  Each fighter 
 also has a total of four grapples or wrestling moves, so if you're expecting a wrestling game, 
 you will be sorely disappointed. Most of the fighting in the game consists of a few punches/kicks, 
 then a grab, and finally a throw into a nearby environmental hazard. Then you trigger the hazard 
 by pressing left trigger button and spinning your right thumbstick. By describing this to you, 
 I have already described how most of your fights will play out.
  
  Another thing this game lacks is the inclusion of 4 players. The modes included in ICONS are for 
 the most part, 1v1, 1v1 Online, Story Mode, and Practice Mode with no turntables (who would even 
 play in this mode?) . So unless you have a roommate or someone to play with regularly, this game 
 will be extremely boring to you. I would not depend on Online play since the game is sluggish already 
 offline, combined with lag from online and this game becomes nearly unplayable.
  
  This review is mainly negative, but there are a few good things to come from this game. The turntables 
 and the music inclusion is innovative, but at the expense of a deep fighting system. The music 
 is great and the graphics are wonderful, each rapper looks like their real life counterpart, it 
 is unfortunate they all fight pretty similiar though.
  
  No matter how great a game looks, it can not make up for a lack of gameplay or depth. If you're 
 a fan of the previous Def Jam games, you will be disappointed. If you've never played the previous 
 Def Jam games, then you might like this game simply because of your ignorance of the other games. 
 If you want a better value for your money and you still own an Xbox, I recommend picking up Def 
 Jam FFNY for $20 on Ebay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lauryn2000
Rating: 8.2
Date: Mar 9, 2007 4:16 am PT
Review:  ... Lil Jon is a headache.. shoulda went with The Game 
  
  You might find yourself saying this if you're playing in career mode and juggling the beat downs 
 with running a music industry with a rapper (s) who just can't seem to get along.
  
  This is a decent beat'em up game, no real combo moves in this which can get kinda a boring after 
 awhile. This is my first time playing the Def Jam fighting game, and I can say I am really impressed 
 with the facial graphics of the rappers, not so much on the fighting/gameplay
  
  The fighting is to be desired since you really don't have that many fighting styles to choose from. Basic 
 sweeps, round house, kick to the mid-section and side kicks rounds out pretty much what you can do. With 
 your occasional take down moves and a variety of upper cuts and jabs.
  
  Storyline can be very funny at times, especially if you have two rappers that are more concerned 
 with beefing with each other instead getting their lyrics on paper and into the studio. Some rappers 
 you sign, you will regret because no matter what you do to keep them out of trouble. Trouble just 
 comes a knocking, if they sell enough cd's, going gold or platinum. That's money in your pocket for 
 a better  spend you're money wisely, it can be gone with court 
 cost, paying off the cops and loose spending of cash on dumb stuff. You're place of dwelling and 
 ride is supplied by you're CEO so the better you do snatching up the likes of The Game and Mike 
 Jones the better you will be living.... feel me???
  
  It would have been nice to have some old school rappers like LL Cool  
 Dog, Dr. Dre and Eric B and Rakim as well as some female rappers ie: Queen Latifah, DaBrat, Foxy Brown 
 and Lil Kim in this game as well.
  
  This is a fun beat'em up game, can get very repetitive in the fighting department but a nice addition 
 to the fighting genre until Virtua Fighter or the next edition of Fight Night hits the console.
 
  
  P. S,
  I completed this game in a day on easy/build a label 
::::::

::::::
UserName: THE_PREZIDENT
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 9, 2007 12:34 pm PT
Review:  Many people feel that this game is garbage, because its some what slow paced. In some ways it trys 
 to be realistic in term of street fighting.
  
  Graphics are a nice, the stages look really nice, and the character models look fantastic. They 
 really do resemble the rappers.
  
  And for the sounds, the sound track, is really nice, explicted music. Gives you a taste of what 
 music these rapper's have. And character voices are well put, taunting and trash talking never 
 sounded so perfect. And of course the enviorment interacts with the music, did I say on the 360 
 your able to use your music on the stage for battle? Its a nice little feature.
  
  Unlike the other fighting games people have played, this game is different. No flying in the air, 
 doing 10 ft. jumps and back flips, shooting laser beams through your eyes like everyone is used 
 to.
  
  As mention the slow paced and high price tag has given the game a bad image on how it might interfer 
 with gameplay and the lack of features, but it fact it doesnt, pretty much the opposite and a game 
 that haters will bash because of its image and it being made by EA. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aarronnn
Rating: 7.3
Date: Mar 7, 2007 4:14 pm PT
Review:  This game definitely has to grow on you. It's not the type of game you can pick up and play right 
 away. Here's my review of this over-hyped up game.
  
  Probably the biggest part of the single player game would be the Start a Label feature. You start 
 off creating your character. The F. A. C. E. feature is pretty cool, considering its very detailed, 
 but gets annoying because its hard to really get the look you may want. plus its not like you want 
 to stare at the face of your own character that long. It took me about 15 minutes just to create 
 mine. Tried to go for a look that reminds me of myself, but its too frustrating because in the 
 end during gameplay, it always looks the same.
  
  After your done, you start off in a fight, i'm not gonna get detailed with the story since, that 
 would be considered a spoiler. So here's my review of what the fighting parts are like. The brawls 
 are very slow. annoyingly slow. Definitely not a button masher, since you kinda need to time your 
 moves, but its too predictable. Once the opponent misses, you have a world of time to attack back, 
 when you miss, he gets you in a hold or a nice long combo.
  
  The best way to end fights, especially in the beginning of the game, is throwing or cornering your 
 opponent and just knocking them into the surroundings. Then the environment (such as speakers, 
 electrical equipment, lightings) will explode and send the opponent flying through the screen.
 
  
  Fighting gets boring quickly, so just try to end it fast. Also there are ridiculous amount of load 
 times. You'll get a loading screen before and after every event. Before and after a fight, cutscene, 
 entering and your apt room, etc etc. It's not that long, but its annoying.
  
  The best part of the game probably is the same with most other games on the Xbox360. the connect-ability 
 of your Ipod/mp3 player. In the beginning of the game you start off with only 3 songs which repeats 
 over and over again during your fights, so connect your ipod and keep it going!
  
  The game overall has some awesome graphics, sound, and gameplay, but it does get repetitive and 
 boring quickly during the fights and endless load times. It's definitly not worth 60 bucks but 
 if you can find one on ebay or amazon for maybe 45-50 bucks later down the road, it might be decent.. 
 Nevertheless, the game will be good for about 10-20 hours at most.
  
  Hence All flash, no substance . Got all the pizazz and show but always makes you feel like there's 
 something missing...... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xphoenixtheory
Rating: 8.1
Date: Mar 7, 2007 8:55 am PT
Review:  i think it need one more thing that the other def jam games had and was the ending finisher thats 
 what it needed n collaboration with urban lifestyle powerhouse Def Jam Interactive, EA Chicagothe 
 team behind the critically acclaimed EA SPORTS Fight Night seriesis integrating hip hop culture 
 and gaming like never before. With the hottest music seamlessly infused into the world around you, 
 the games environments pulsate, crumble, and explode to life with every bone-jarring beat. Time 
 your attacks to the driving bass and use falling debris and exposed environmental hazards to pound 
 your rivals. Featuring an all-new single-player story, the game takes you deep into the life of 
 a high-rolling hip hop mogul to build a record label, discover new superstars, and become a hip 
 hop ICON. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
