-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Destroy All Humans! Path of the Furon
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/xbox360/action/destroyallhumanspathofthefuron/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Zapping humans and causing chaos is entertaining for a short while.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Racist portrayal of some characters.
 Objectives get old fast.
 Heinous graphics.
 Tired humor.
 Slow, tedious pacing.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Dec  9, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 4
Critic Score: 3.9, 21 Review (s)
User Score: 7.0, 350 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: THQ
Developer: Sandblast
Genre: Sci-Fi Action Adventure
Date: Dec 1, 2008
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
If you enjoy tedious objectives, racially insensitive humor, and ugly graphics, the latest Destroy 
 All Humans is right up your alley. 

  Developer Sandbox Games was shut down by THQ nearly a full month before Destroy All Humans: Path 
 of the Furon hit retail shelves, and the PlayStation 3 version of the game was canceled shortly 
 thereafter. After a short time with the Xbox 360 version of the game you'll probably wish THQ had 
 put it out of its misery, too. The game's visuals are dated, and its insensitive, stereotypical 
 portrayal of the Chinese (among other ethnicities) is appalling. Add in repetitive objectives and 
 played-out humor and there's no reason to waste your time with this shoddy excuse for a game.  
 

           Hahaha, it's an anal probe and it hurts his butt! So funny!      

  As in previous DAH games, you play as Crypto, a curmudgeonly, smart-alecky alien with a dislike 
 for the human race. The game takes place in the 1970s, and Crypto has his hands full dealing with 
 the Mob in what's supposed to be Las Vegas. After a few unexpected attackers try to off him, he 
 realizes someone or something other than the Mob wants him out of the way. Crypto sets off across 
 five open-world environments that include faux Vegas, a poor man's Hollywood, and a pseudo China, 
 among others.  

  While you're free to run or hover around the game's large worlds, there's not a whole lot that's 
 exciting to do. If you're in your flying saucer you can destroy buildings, but rather than them 
 crumbling to the ground after a huge explosion, they melt like a stick of butter left in the hot 
 sun. You can zap humans and bad guys with a number of weapons including the not-funny-anymore anal 
 probe. You can take control of peoples' bodies, make them dance, and use telekinesis to grab and 
 throw them, but you're best off sticking with your default weapon and powering it up with the DNA 
 you earn for finishing missions. Likewise, the many weapon options available to you while in your 
 flying saucer are generally less useful than the default ray. You might have a bit of fun messing 
 around with a few of the tools of destruction made available to you, but the large number of options 
 is little more than a novelty.  

  It feels that rather than come up with interesting objectives, the developer made a bunch of weapons 
 and occasionally forces you to use them in artificially constrained ways. Rather than allowing 
 you to land your saucer anywhere, the game gives you only a few landing spots, most of which have 
 to be unlocked by playing a minigame, which in turn forces you to use a gun or skill you likely 
 wouldn't use. This is so contrived that the game even makes a joke about it. Yes, making the people 
 who were foolish enough to buy your game perform unnecessary, cumbersome tasks is really funny. 
 Mission objectives start off simple: shoot some guys, protect someone or something, blow up a building, 
 use telekinesis to carry a person to a different location, and so on. As you progress, the game 
 will lengthen these objectives and then chain them together. This means that halfway through the 
 game -- and for the rest of the game -- you'll be suffering through long missions with objectives you've 
 long since tired of.  

  The first few Destroy All Humans were amusing and relied heavily on parody and tongue-in-cheek 
 dialogue, but Crypto's act has grown old. He rarely shuts up, and his incessant yapping and bickering 
 grates the nerves. Thankfully, mission objectives are usually clearly displayed, so there's no 
 penalty for skipping the game's painfully frequent and agonizingly long cutscenes. It's bad enough 
 that the cutscenes are frequent and the dialogue constant; what's worse is that much of the game's 
 humor relies on racial stereotypes. The dialogue and accents of many of the characters and citizens 
 in the game's Chinese levels might have been "acceptable" 30 or 40 years ago, but today they're 
 downright offensive and reason enough to avoid this game.  

           Bow to me, humans, or I will destroy your beautiful planet! Oh wait, it's already super 
 ugly. Never mind.      

  Path of Furon's visuals are also offensive, but in a different way. The game proudly proclaims 
 to use the Unreal Engine, but you'd be hard-pressed to see the results in the finished product. 
 Perhaps they licensed the original Unreal Engine and not Unreal 3. There's not much of the game 
 that looks like it belongs on the Xbox 360. The frame rate is mediocre at best, textures are low-res, 
 huge buildings will pop in right in front of you, and the backgrounds look blurry, as if there 
 were Vaseline on the lens. It gets worse: many of the cutscenes have no lip-synching, camera transitions 
 during cutscenes (which often feel unfinished) are choppy, characters are poorly animated, citizens 
 skate around the city, and explosions are pitiful. Even Crypto looks terrible.  

  A few multiplayer minigames are available, but they add no value to this already miserable game. 
 If you've somehow stuck with this tired series since its inception, you'll probably have some fun 
 with Destroy All Humans: Path of the Furon, but it offers nothing to anyone with a reasonable amount 
 of taste.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (27 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: sharkboya
Rating: 6
Date: Apr 16, 2009 2:46 pm PT
Review:  Destroy all Humans Path of The Furon is a sequel to the highly anticipated Destroy all Humans 2 
 (available on the previous generation consoles) . Unfortunately this game has not improved much 
 from the older game. There are many negatives about this game including its lack of graphics and 
 its short and confusing storyline. When i mean it lacks graphics, i mean it lacks Xbox 360 standards. 
 another problem is the amount of glitches that can be found in this game. When i was playing one 
 of the levels i got stuck in the floor and had to start the mission all over again.
  
  Some of the positives in the game are the very good destruction effects when your wielding your 
 weapons of mass destruction in your insanely strong saucer. This includes the ability to mark buildings 
 when you use certain weapons or you can just blow an entire building up with the Quantum Deconstructor. 
 Some other weapons include the Death Ray, Seeker Drones and the highly destructive Tornadotron. 
 You can now suck 100's of humans up at once with Crypto's new saucer, he has a new saucer because....
 
  
  Play the game to find out!
  
  There are also some pretty cool weapons that you can use on foot like the classics such as the 
 Zap-O-Matic, Disintegrator Ray and the Anal Probe which... Shouldn't need to be explained in much 
 detail. Some of the new weapons include the Venus Human Trap, Black Hole Gun and the Superballer. 
 The Venus Human Trap (which also eats cars) will eat anyhing that is close to it, or you can feed 
 it using Crypto's Psycokinesis power (which i'll explain later) . The Black Hole Gun does exactly 
 what it says on the tin, it opens a black hole and sucks anyhing into it at high speed. The Superballer 
 is a seeking ball that tracks anyhing including cars and people and sends them on an enjoyable 
 journey into the sky.
  
  Crypto can still use his Psycokinesis powers, and their pretty much the same but with a few tweeks. 
 He can still use powers like Cortex Scan, and some sort of power that makes people dance and forget 
 they ever saw you. Some of the new things you can do are transmog humans (meaning watch their head 
 inflate until it explodes and then it gives you ammo) , and when you pick up a human you can magnetize 
 other humans and objects to the same PK and then do what ever you want with them. The really new 
 feature with your PK is the Temporal Fist. This allows you to stop time and pick anyhing up and 
 set them on a path you want. E. g picking up a human then selecting push, when time starts again 
 the human will be pushed. Using this power wisely you can set up your own chain reactions and wreck 
 havoc around the five worlds of DAH Path of the Furon. This power is also useful in puzzle events, 
 at some points the game tries to play with your mind with puzzles so be careful!
  
  Overall the graphics are reasonable and the gameplay is fine, but at some points it looks like 
 the game hasn't been tested for bugs and glitches. But with five worlds that are bigger than the 
 previous game. It ain't all that bad!
  
  sharkboyswimmer2. piczo. com
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: MarioLinkFusion
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 17, 2009 11:50 am PT
Review:  I rented this game knowing the low score these "professionals" gave it. I tried it out and it slowly 
 proved my thoughts wrong. Ever since I played Big Willy Unleashed I had thought that DAH was done 
 and that path of the furon wasn't even worth remembering. So one day I decided to rent a game, 
 and all the good ones were taken so I got DAH Path of the Furon. The game started out with a strange 
 intro, so I was getting ready to get even more disappointed, but as the game got through the levels 
 and I got more powers, it started to seem almost as good as DAH2. I think willy unleashed was just 
 a setback that pandemic and THQ are gradually getting out of. Now they realized the mistakes they 
 made when they created the game big willy unleashed and are now working on improving the gameplay. 
 Hopefully, if they ignore these low scores these critics are making, they will make another DAH 
 and it'll be the best of them all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DonMorris
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 22, 2009 10:48 am PT
Review:  I think Aaron missed the point of this game. It isn't meant to be the next big seller like COD4 
 for Fallout. It is meant to be simple, fun & funny. It achieves this. It is fun to run around and 
 zap people with your Zap-o-matic. The humor from the 70's is funny too, especially for those of 
 us who were teens in the 70's. I'm not sure how someone younger could appreciate the humor but 
 for those of us in our 40's, it is pretty funny.
  
  Don't believe Aaron. He has to be a young punk in his 20's and doesn't appreciate the satire and 
 irony of this game. Yes, Aaron, it is funny to watch people run around after blasting them with 
 an anal probe. Also, the racial humor is typical of what it was like to live in the 70's. I don't 
 mind if someone kids me about being a redneck because I'm white and I spend my weekends out in 
 the woods during deer hunting season. Oh, I forgot, deer hunting probably offends Aaron. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MasterRTG
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 22, 2009 8:52 am PT
Review:  DAH! Path of the Furon does not have anyting too new in it. There's th usual that you would expect: 
 ne levels, some new saucer upgrades, weapons, and a new PK featrue or two. Other than that, this 
 is basically just DAH! 2 with some new features. 
  The graphics are horrible for an XBOX/PS3 game. Everything is a bit blurry and does not have much 
 realistic feature to it. On the other hand, DAH! POTF addes a lot more to the plot in the sotry 
 that continues on from the other 2 games. 
  Tha game itself takes place in the 1970's and starts in Las Paradiso (a cheap knockoff of Las Vegas) 
 where Crypto owns a casino caled the Space Dust. Crypto has a rivalry with another casino, Nero's 
 Palazzo, owned by the two Italian Molinari bros. Eventually, a group of aliens called the Nexos 
 show up and, for some reason, keep trying to kill Crypto. The rest of the plot is mostly how Crypto 
 tries to find out who is behind the attacks. For some reason, Cryptos girlfriend Natalya is not 
 in this game and they only mention her once, but don't tell you what happened to her, which is 
 really stupid. In this third game, there is the same type if humor, same old guns, saucer etc. 
 You also have unlimited PK ability, which helps a loti n the missions. 
  Thee are some new enemies besides the nexos, like Kung Fu warriors who are about as tough as their 
 groups name, the White Dragon Kung Fu society. A good thing is that you finally get to go to the 
 planet Furon! Actually, the fourth ring around Furon. Omce you get to a certain level, you get 
 an awseome PK ability called Temporal FIst, which allows you to freeze time and choose a direction 
 to send objects flying in. Once time unfreezes all the objects you choose fly in their designated 
 directions. This also gives you a good advantage in following missions. When you freeze time, you 
 can also use your Ion Detonator, but that is it. This can be used to kill certain bosses like the 
 nexo walkers faster and easier. There are also challenges and collectibles hidden in the location. 
 
  DAH! POTF is not what you'd expect it to be, with crappy graphics and not much new variety, making 
 it similar to DAH 2. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: josmith16
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 10, 2009 6:16 pm PT
Review:  Graphics : I thought at first this might be the worse looking game that I've seen on the 360. I 
 might have been right, but it's definitely NEXT GEN graphics. After playing games like Fallout 
 3, Fable II, Call of Duty 4 and Assassin's Creed, the graphics don't stack up to games like that. 
 But after playing Katamari, I remembered that good graphics don't make a game, bad graphics can 
 break a game, but in this case the graphics aren't bad enough to break the game. Cut scenes are 
 horrible, but I don't really like cut scenes any way.
  
  Humor : Well, I can't say this game is as funny as the movie, Dumb and Dumber, but it does have 
 some off the wall humor. Jim Carey might even like. It might offend some people but it's funny. 
 Jim Carey might offend some people too. The game's not funny enough to make me buy the game, but 
 anal probing human's is. Tell me one other game that has any humor that you can remember. None. 
 I can't think of any. Except for Halo 3. It's kinda funny when I shoot that guy every time he regen 
 on level 3.
  
  Complexness of game : Well, if I wanted a complex game I wouldn't have bought DAH. You just run 
 around and shot things with your ray gun. Hang on. I need to go shoot my dog with my ray gun. Oh, 
 wait that's just a game. Maybe I'll anal probe my, oh wait that part of the game too. If you don't 
 have a sense of humor stick with Halo 3. Well, that's kind of funny. All you do in Halo 3 is shoot 
 things. Halo 3 - shot things with no humor. DAH - shot things with humor.
  
  Take your pick but I'd say it's a good buy if you can crack a smile every once in a while. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: linnx88
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 29, 2009 9:24 am PT
Review:  I love this game! It's halarious. The reviewer Aaron Thomas lets his personal, leftist political 
 beliefs get ahead of enjoying this great game. Aaron there are thousands of racially insensitive 
 jokes in South Park towards whites, blacks, almost everyone, you don't like it because of that 
 too?
  
  There are thousands of racially insensitive comments on TV i hear towards white people every day, 
 yet it's shrugged off and when you mention it, you're looked at as a pariah. I don't take offense 
 to it because some are funny. That is what you lack, humor, you allow you lack of humor (humor 
 should make fun of EVERYTHING!) and political beliefs ruin this game for you.
  
  It's like a German refusing to play a WW2 game because Germans are the main enemy.
  
  The game 
 is funny, well made and allows you to play out your alien fantasies unlike any other game on the 
 market. Awesome! I'm not longer visiting GS because their editors turned out to be politically 
 motivated, instead of game motivated. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: guyguyguy1234
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 28, 2009 8:19 am PT
Review:  Its easy, short, repetitive. But for some odd reason very enjoyable and funny.
  
  The good- Funny, Fun torturing people, environments and weapons are cool. The missions are fun 
 for sixty percent of the game.
  
  The Bad- It looks like a PS2 game. Glitchy. People don't move their legs if you are far away from 
 them. They were lazy when they made this game.
  
  Yay, another Destroy all humans game. This one doesn't live up to the others though. Funny, Fun 
 torturing people, environments and weapons are cool. The missions are fun for sixty percent of 
 the game. People say the humor is played out but i do not think so. The saucer weapons are very 
 cool as well as all the other ones.
  
  However, It looks like a PS2 game but oh well. It is Glitchy in Shen Long. You can get stuck in 
 the ground or have you XBOX freeze.. People don't move their legs if you are far away from them 
 and some people get stuck in mid-air. They were lazy when they made this game. You can tell.
  
  Overall i recommended this to a selective audience with a few bucks and time to waste.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: megamaster32
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 10, 2009 4:26 pm PT
Review:  path of the furon is a really fun game I would recommend it for a destroy all humans fan but, this 
 game is very challenging
  
  Here is what I think about it
  
  Pro: good weapons the venus hand trap is really fun to use very funny game, alot of humor, and 
 the weapons on the saucer is slightly improved.
  Cons: tons of glitchy some of the weapons are the same iron deanator zap o matic the gameplay is 
 kind of bad the game gets really furstrating here and there. But the guards the police guards are 
 the most complicated to get to once you get into the game but the saucer repair helps it to be 
 alittle easy to repair your health easy by cloaking
  Favors: the favorite weapon i would use would had to be the venus trap why because it can knock 
 out enemies alot easier the saucer weapon would be the drons death ray 
  so overal have to get this game a 6.5 laggy and graphics could slightly improve but you have more 
 buildings yeah the weapons are alittle weak once you fully upgrade them
  Overall this is a good game I would recommend it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shadowdynasty15
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 10, 2009 9:15 am PT
Review:  Lets start with the story you start off in a DAH! version of Las Vegas called Las Paradiso so Crypto 
 seems to be looking his best in my eyes having a casino making a little cash on the side and he 
 has respect well maybe not everyone one hates him. Yes the building look better instead of the 
 usual two or three stories these are twenty or forty high, but the way buildings go down is like 
 seeing a soufle go wrong. A real bummer after you worked so hard on it.
  Up to you get a timestop ability the story is great after however its all downhill not very steep 
 but still gets worse.
  
  Now the humor however is still grand, dialogue is great, and at times when Pox describes the mission 
 for you you'll find yourself pressing A since they can be very long and boring.
  
  The weapons on both Crypto and his new sled one that flies anyway are relativley weaker but look 
 better I swear I find myself using my first weapon more often than lets say the Ion Detonator all 
 the weapons THEMSELVES look great but the business end is much like a water gun all look but still 
 the same blast as a little water pistol. Now on to the saucer while you may find yourself using 
 some weapons in where their not as good more often than ones that are meant for that particular 
 situation. While everyone who's played DAH! 1&2 knows what the most destructive weapon in the games 
 is. Yes THAT weapon and its CHARGEABLE yes CHARGEABLE! As if it wasn't strong enough already. It 
 even looks better now plus you get this gun before the game ends not like last second but a few 
 hours before it ends.
  
  Onto the multiplayer same old same old to DAH! 1 why not 2? Because of lack of cooperative play 
 me and my friend were hoping it was still there seriously. What is the multiplayer then? Well there 
 Abductorama bringing in the Abducta Beam while you may think its to grab as many humans as you 
 can before you run out of time and out-abduct your friend its not you simply need to pick up as 
 Crypto calls him "My PAC-MAN friend" and hold onto him as long as you can while the other player 
 has to snatch it from him.
  The Brain-O-Matic has you grab humans and throw him/her into the BOM to get more brains than your 
 other.
  Ion Soccer is actually self explanatory the only multiplayer game thats actually worth a shot.
 
  
  Now this game isn't worth 60 bucks more like 45 its still grand once you start but it gets old. 
 Buy this if your a DAH! fan 4 life if your not go buy something else. 
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: chirf
Rating: 5
Date: Jan 7, 2009 4:00 am PT
Review:  No.... just.... just no.......
  
  play it for yourself..... if your an unbiased gamer, you will laugh at this horrible excuse for 
 a game.
  
  if your a DAH fan like me, but protect this game? (which i don't)
  go for it, its all yours, you can have this rushed, incomplete, or poorly made title. don't get 
 me wrong, i was very dissapointed. i was looking forward to a next generation DAH game. this is 
 not a game, this is the result of a gaming company that thought it would be funny to take a franchise, 
 and make it shoot itself in the face....
  
  i am sorry..... just don't bother....
  
  
  
  
  FINAL VERDICT
  
  overall, dont bother with it, HOWEVER, if you loved the story from 
 the other games, then play through it, its not all THAT bad storywise. the story is the same as 
 the second one. thats the only good part of this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: expandingeye
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 2, 2009 2:42 am PT
Review:  Gamespot's review is forgetting the simple aspect of fun. This game will provide fun to the great 
 fans of the first destroy all humans when it came out. 
  
  Positives:
  -The graphic complaints are unwarranted, they are much improved over the first game. They are just 
 not up to some of the AAA budget titles out on 360. But they are still 360 quality.
  -The story is mildly captivating but this game is really more about giving you weapons to destroy 
 humans than watching a intricate story. 
  -Weapons available are excellent. With a great variety and the old classics still great. They give 
 some entertaining moments.
  -Saucer is vastly improved over the original. It now does resemble serious alien weaponry. The 
 graphics tie in nicely to this.
  -people complain about framerate issues but i havent found this to be too bothersome.
  -the fact 
 that it isnt a full retail price makes it a very worthwhile purchase.
  
  Negatives:
  -With such a large game put into open world the developers left alot of glitches in which are really 
 annoying but not game breaking. 
  -The main glitch being people disappear sometimes when u turn your back to them and than look back. 
 I have just gotten used to these due to my strong love for being an alien destroying humans.
  -Cut scenese seem choppy, but it doesnt bother me much. 
  
  Final:
  This game is a must for 
 those that had the original but skipped DAH2 and Big Willy unleashed due to how poor they looked. 
 It may have some problems but there is no other game where you can bodysnatch humans while throwing 
 cars around.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: RC3-Monitor
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 1, 2009 4:40 pm PT
Review:  While most certainly not the best in the series, Path of the Furon most definitely improves upon 
 the image set by Big Willy. With spot-on voice acting, and, as always, irreverent humor, it seems 
 that Sandblast has crafted with a sort of over-protective love what is likely to be the last game 
 in the series.
  
  That said, on more than a few areas, the game fails. In the epic manner.
  Such as the story. 
 It can be easily seen that Sandblast took care in trying to closely mimic the style of pandemic, 
 but their attempt fell just shy of actually working. Another negative aspect of the game is it's 
 graphics which, although vastly superior to Big Willy Unleashed, have a massive amount of careless 
 flaws.
  
  All in all, Path of the Furon provides a somewhat disappointing yet considerably fun and well written 
 implied end to the series.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: leatherface_19
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 27, 2008 9:19 pm PT
Review:  Words can't describe how amazing Path of the Furon is, but this game also has its share of flaws.
 
  
  I have to say though Path of the Furon is most definitely an improvement from Big Willy Unleashed, 
 while this is true also the story is a little more lengthy.
  
  Now the flaws to this game: Boss Battles can be way to easy, In-Sinc dialogue is rarely ever found 
 during cutscenes.
  
  So the graphics, well to me the graphics look "good" but i wouldn't say they were ugly it just 
 looks rushed in some parts, but others parts look real nice.
  
  The story, i can tell is lengthier than BWU and the original voice actors from DAH! 1 and 2 are 
 back making the vocals sound alot better than before.
  
  As for the story i won't comment on for the sake of spoilers.
  
  Overall Path of the Furon 
 is one of the better installments into the DAH! series, while not perfect though i think it needs 
 a little more praise then what it's getting. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joshsmith16
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 31, 2009 4:01 pm PT
Review:  It's easy to realize right away that Path of the Furon is unpolished, and has some flaws. Lets 
 look at the bad first. The game bares many glitchy scars. Often at times, the player might get 
 stuck in the ground or other inanimate objects, and if the player walks through a destroyed fire 
 hydrant or a fountain, the framerate jumps like a grasshopper that's being electrocuted. The graphics 
 aren't 360 standard, but they are in no way terrible. Some textures look fake, but it isn't a hindering 
 flaw. Sometimes, if there's too much going on screen at once, or you've been playing for a long 
 time and your 360 has gotten hot, there is a slight chance of freezing. Though this issue is annoying, 
 it is a rare occurance and is hardly game-breaking. Often at times, spoken dialogue will either 
 be cut off before finished, or wont be spoken at all. This isn't game breaking, but it can be annoying 
 for those who love reading minds or enjoy the story. Since the game runs on a different engine, 
 it isn't possible to pick up and play with the dead bodies any longer either. This isn't pleasant 
 because of the fun that could have been had by mercilessly slinging around dead bodies. True, there 
 are many flaws, but not game breaking, and they certainly won't keep you from enjoying the game, 
 unless you're a graphics whore, or have no sense of humor or fun.
  
  Now that the bad is out of the way, let's focus on the good. This game isn't hardly repetative 
 at all. The missions are well laid out, and most are interesting. You'll do something different 
 in each mission, unlike in GTA IV, where you most drove somewhere and killed a guy, or chased a 
 guy and then killed him. The graphics are slightly better than the originals, and the explosions 
 and building collapses are more realistic. This gives you the sense of immense power as you wreak 
 havoc among the populous. The story is just as good as the first two, and though the humor can 
 be abit stale, there are certainly some points that will make you laugh. The Characters have their 
 original voices, making them sound far better than the cheap knock-offs in Big Willy. The gameplay 
 is definately Path of the Furon's largest strong point. Crypto, his jetpack, his weapons, and his 
 PK all handle much more smoothly and easy, allowing you to get comfortable and be able to cause 
 mass destruction with the press of a button. Temporal fist and PK magnet both add new concepts 
 to the game, and they're pulled off well. It's fun to stop time, mess up the world, and then restart 
 time just to watch all hell break loose. And there are also several new weapons, and the old weapons 
 have been made anew, and there are even new ways to use them. Car Surfing with the dislocator is 
 extremely fun. Feeding you own pet man-eating plant is even more fun. But one of the most entertaining 
 weapons is the superballer. It's fun to watch helpless humans take a bouncy rainbow trip of pain 
 throughout the level. The levels are now much larger as well, and not only have they grown out, 
 but up as well. Traversing them takes alot of time on foot, even with the jetpack. The last level 
 was given alot of detail, and is definately worth playing through the end to see. The game is definately 
 better than Big Willy in any way, and and definately deserves to be among the first two games in 
 quality.
  
  For fans of the series, it is a definate buy. However, if you didn't enjoy the first two, then 
 you most likely wont enjoy what Path of the Furon has to offer. If you aren't sure, I suggest renting 
 it first, and decide for yourself. Though the game isn't as good as other titles, it's still a 
 good time to be had, though not all people are partial to the type of fun Path of the Furon dishes 
 out.
  
  7/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darklord9193
Rating: 5
Date: Dec 23, 2008 9:48 pm PT
Review:  To start much of the things Gamespot has said about the game are true yes its racist, yes its ugly, 
 but the little joke about the way it looked was kinda like something a four year old might say 
 soo to you gamespot... really?
  
  The game was in my opinion fun, but for me fun is mindless destruction. Speaking of which the high-fi 
 destruction was a complete lie on the makers fault, and they talked about awesome explosions which 
 i don't believe i saw. The weapons were underpowered (ok its the tornadotron) and that makes the 
 game that much more annoying.
  
  The graphics were last-gen and at time it was like playing on my ps2 again... sorry DAH i'm not 
 going back to that horrible place again. In the games defense Crypto's head was cool, along with 
 his saucer. But from Destroy all Humans 2 i think there was a graphical DOWNGRADE.
  
  The difficulty was like skipping through gum drop forest, oh wait all games are like that now.
 
  
  If you liked the other games you might like this, or if your a fan of crude humor. Other than that 
 you'll wana avoid this game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SS2TRUNKS
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 19, 2008 3:15 pm PT
Review:  it aint that good but if ur in a bad mood its great to kill to no end so thats a good thing about 
 it but i prefer the 2nd one cause it is by far the best so if u want to get a DAH game get the 
 2nd one cause its WAAAAAAAAAAAYYYYYYYYYYYY better then the other three and it has a better story 
 line. but the new one does have a pretty kool story to it so thats probibly y i like it more than 
 most people and i noticd that the game did not get many good reviews from critics or users but 
 mabye im one of the few who like the game but mabye its just me. Well that was my review of the 
 4th game in thr DAH seires hope some people agree with what i think and hope they make one more 
 thet doesent suck more than the Agua teen hunger force game that one realy blows. One guy i know 
 actuly likes that game he was later takin to a mentil institution and moked for playing that peice 
 of CRAP worthless trash poor excuse of a game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: halfpipe1992
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 18, 2008 7:43 am PT
Review:  i think this game is good because: it is funny, it is now more a challenge then the first two Destroy 
 all humans and the weapons are better.
  some of you people don`t know why we play the game:
  one. it is fun to play it
  two. this game 
 has a good single player, the multi player had to be a bit better but it is good for me
  three. the grafics are a lot better then the first two destroy all humans so thats a big plus
 
  four. the pk an some other special powers are very good it think
  five. and some other things that you can find yourself or already know
  now that crypto is back 
 makes playing on my xbox 360 a lot more fun.
  and at last it does not matter what some of you people think about this , i just keep playing it
 
  and people this game is a lot better then Big Willy Unleashed.
  for the people that have fun in this game i think you must go on with ths game even when it is 
 getting a littel bored after that it wil just get better 
::::::

::::::
UserName: truehalolover
Rating: 3
Date: Dec 17, 2008 3:31 pm PT
Review:  OK people this is the most lamest, boring, stupidest game i have ever played the story line is laughable 
 ,and in the rest of the series there was always a wish crack coming from the little alien but in 
 this there was nothing the only thing i laughed at was the poor graphics, gamers don't buy this 
 its a waste of time! back to the graphics they haven't changed sense the first destroy all humans 
 and thats absolutly pathetic! Because the first was mad for the original xbox and with todays technology 
 it should have been thirty times the game it was. Now gamers i would like your feed on this review 
 so please send me a message on what you thought of this game. I just really hope that this review 
 helps in saving some gamers some of there well erned money because i no i wouldnt pay over 10 dollars 
 for this game. so ya gamers send me a message on what you thought. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: griffinboy846
Rating: 2
Date: Dec 12, 2008 12:20 pm PT
Review:  Destroy All Humans was good. Destroy All Humans 2 was excellent. DAH! Big Willy Unleashed was good. 
 Destroy All Humans: Path of the Furon, is awful.
  Story, something about kung-fu, I don't know that much about the story, as I quit playing this 
 game shortly after I started to play it.
  Gameplay is basically the same. You have PK, stuff like that. Now you can shoot enemies while using 
 PK. Destroying all humans is growing boring now. I still play DAH!2 (I played that for more then 
 25 hours destroying humans and compleiting quests and other stuff) , which is better then this. 
 When you kill an enemy, the head comes off, so you can collect DNA, which returns this game. When 
 they fall on the ground, you can not throw them around. They disappear. In DAH! 2, when i killed 
 humans, i threw the dead bodies around. Now, I can't. Saucer is boring, and you can now abduct 
 anything in your abducto beam automatically, meaning tons of stuff wilol be in your abducto beam.
 
  Graphics are AWFUL! Draw distance is bad, the civilans from DAH! 2 look better then them in this 
 game. Dialouge is not funny, the game just looks bad. The N-64 could do better.
  Do not play this game. Buy DAH! 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jetfire2000
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 10, 2008 2:20 pm PT
Review:  Welcome to the Destroy All Humans! Path of the Furon review!
  
  The game is very good, as far as storyline and other things. One of my favorite things is the "better 
 detailed" explosions, unlike the other games in which had a red glow for an explosion.
  
  Graphics look a little smeared at times, but who cares about graphics being perfect? Yeah, you 
 might want somewhat good graphics, but jeez, you're playing a game, not judging a picture. 
  
  A lot of people have been giving this game crappy reviews, such as "this game is the worst 
 in the series" and "rent this before you buy it."
  
  Do NOT take their opinion for your own! Renting is still good for people who are new to the series, 
 but if you are a TRUE DAH fan, you need to buy this.
  
  And no, this is not the worst. Big Willy Unleashed was far more worse than this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ebber
Rating: 5
Date: Dec 10, 2008 5:51 am PT
Review:  I think this is my first review of a game, only because I couldn't hold my tongue.
  
  I've been a fan of the series, and I remember playing DAH2 on the PS2 and thinking, "man, this 
 game will rock for the next generation, I can't wait!" Well what a disappointment.
  
  The game can be fun at times, but it's very unpolished, and seems as though it doesn't take advantage 
 of any of the hardware on the new-gen consoles. So many bugs, I lost count. Horrible map system. 
 For a supposed open sandbox, it feels very linear. The audio drops out frequently (especially when 
 you read someone's mind, they first couple of words will be heard, then nothing) .
  
  Thank all the gods the video store did not have the game for sale right away. I was able to rent 
 it, get as much fun out of it as I could in 5 days, and saved myself $40 by realizing it's not 
 worth buying. Do yourself a favour, rent it first if you really need to check it out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rasbezzun
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 9, 2008 9:04 am PT
Review:  First of all this Game is amazing even its feel like ur playing an incomplete game, The graphics 
 i expected better but its amazing in front of DAH 1 and 2. i never really liked how buildings fall 
 in DAH 2 this one feel more realastic, the new guns ara amazing like the black hole gun with can 
 absorb anything in it and the funny suberballer witch is similar to the dislocator and the plasma 
 cannon for the ufo is great too. the old guns are now even better like the quantum deconstructer 
 which wil make u realy crazy to destroy anything in your path! the missions are fun and great to 
 do, some ppl say its crap cos the technical flaws, well maybe its a bit incomplete like texture takes 
 time to load and some glicthes but fans wil find this better than the others
  
  i simply want to say to the fans of DAH to get this one cos the destrcuction this time is very 
 more fun and realistic then the others 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JAKISALL
Rating: 3.5
Date: Dec 7, 2008 5:02 pm PT
Review:  It is the absolute worst one out of all the franchise, ever wonder why THQ scrapped sandblast? 
 here's why! they screwed the pooch! too many polish issues and glitches for the delay that this 
 game had. And the reason the PS3 version was cancelled was because the morons couldn"t get the 
 engine to work with it. Which is odd since other games use the unreal engine that are fine. Plus 
 the physics HORRID there is a part that had u needing to push a meteorite bigger than crypto I 
 COULD MOVE IT WITH A PAINT CAN!!! Cars were tipped over by this paint can and the meteorite passed 
 thru people. You die in a foot of water and the voices sometimes just cut out and the blackout 
 screen between getting in and out of the saucer gets annoying very fast. All in all buy #1 and 
 #2 they are better and about the same price. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jarhead20
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 6, 2008 11:37 am PT
Review:  This is the first time I play a game of the series and I must say I'm very pleased with it. The 
 game does not have the sharpest graphics I've seen recently and in fact they dont nearly look as 
 good as they could with the power of the xbox. Above this the game also presents a number of technical 
 flaws that somewhat diminish the whole experience specially with the loading of textures, the draw 
 distance and the sound effects but I really think that this kind of game does not actually need 
 to be technically impressive to be extremely fun.
  
  Talking about the gameplay is probably talking about the best part of Destroy all Humans! The control 
 scheme is very intuitive and easy to get used to, the weapons you can use have fun effects and 
 at all times you really feel that you are an alien with super advanced weaponry that can easily 
 take out a city on your own. Cruisin' the city in your flyin' saucer feeling omnipotent its a blast 
 and the fact that you can upgrade your weaponry, saucer, etc. gives the game a depth that ensures 
 hours of good ol' fashion human-torturin' fun!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: awakendjay
Rating: 5
Date: Dec 4, 2008 8:52 pm PT
Review:  I am just warning you all, save your money, this game is horrid! I had this game in Que with gamefly 
 for over a year.... and finally to my utter disappointment it failed...
  
  Graphics: feels like its at about 18 fps, unsmooth, choppy.... but the graphics is not the reason 
 i hated this game
  
  The city you play in is VERY VERY VERY small...... the AI on the enemies and pedestrians are truly 
 mechanical, and give no breath of animation to them that mimics reality even in the slightest humorous 
 way..... The timestop ability feels soooooo disapointing, if you ever played the game timeshift, 
 thats the way time stop should be done....... this game is just a BIG dissapointment.......... now 
 i know why this game was not marketed hugely cause the developers knew their game sucked...
  
  Honestly it had sooo much potential but I think the developers ran out of money ...................
 
  
  
  RENT THIS GAME IF YOU MUST PLAY IT
  
  think of all the good you can do with your money once you realize how bad this game is............ 
 you can buy ice cream, beer, pizza...... anything but this game..... im just trying to save people 
 who are low on cash
  
  I personally rented the game so im happy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kstill93
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 3, 2008 2:30 pm PT
Review:  Alright, so on Tuesday and I want to best buy (after looking at a few other stores) and it wasn't 
 on the shelf. After waiting almost a year and praying for the release date to come, I nearly hit 
 the little kid next to me begging his mom to let him play "gotar heewo". I asked a guy who worked 
 there to look it up in there system, it didn't show. he said the system updates slowly, though. 
 so he left to go check something, he said. 5 minutes later he came back holding what was the greatest 
 site of my life at that moment... a copy of Destroy all Humans! Path of the Furon. he said that 
 there were only 3 copies in the back storage room! and that they got them on Sunday morning at 
 8! it hadn't even been released yet! so it was plastic wraped, but that was it. we rang it up and 
 it came out 39.99! not 60! And they only had three copies, total! is the game THAT underground 
 and underated? some people... but I didn't care, I was holding the game in my hands for the first 
 time ever. I had dreams of that moment. so enough of my life story. I got home, popped in the game 
 and my system had to update... do do dooo. So, the main screen comes up, it was a yellow gold with 
 a semi transparent video of some awesome gameplay in the background! I sign in, click new game 
 and wait for it to start up. it takes my to a great opening cutscene with some funny dialog, but 
 I won't spoil anymore of the story. I played for about 8-9 hours straight, loving it! At first, 
 i was a bit disapointed because it was kinda buggy and glitchy and the framerate was pretty bad 
 at times, but just simply switching from 450p (which I have no idea why that was on, we have a 
 60 inch plasma flat screen) to 1080i did the trick, the graphics looked super high def and amazingly, 
 most of the glitchyness went away! The gameplay and missions are really fun. the weapons are really 
 weak at first, but earn some DNA and shop at the local Pox Mart and you can get fixed up with some 
 cool upgrades, you'll be good to go! when in the saucer, refilling on ammo and health is almost 
 like cheating! it is so easy to pick up a car with the ubducto beam and suck up its energy to refill 
 on health or transmogrify it into easy, fast ammo. Pk magnet it so much fun and time stop/temporal 
 fist can do some really fun damage! the story is decent with some pretty funny dialog in the cut 
 scenes. so, let me break my review down into some numbers.
  Graphics: 8.5/10 (cartoonish, but thats what it is, right?) Gameplay: 9/10 Story: 8/10 Missions: 
 8.6/10 Difficulty: easy/medium. I love this game and anybody who reads this should totally consider 
 getting it. And Europe, sorry for you : ( 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tech_Viper
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 2, 2008 11:22 pm PT
Review:  If you liked the first two you'll definitely enjoy this one. It brings back classic weapons, and 
 introduces some new ones. The game is funny, both intentionally and unintentionally. If you enjoy 
 witty dialog and reading thoughts that will make your jaw drop then this game is for you. The only 
 problems I have encountered are mainly minor visual glitches that don't really ever heavily interfere. 
 There are also a fair share of physics based glitches, but those have no impact on gameplay, and 
 some are just plain fun to watch. If you like destroying stuff and listening to the game bash Scientology 
 as well as hundreds of other historical and pop culture references, this game has it all. Only 
 real gripes come with the aiming of the weapons, that is a little tricky at times, but it is manageable 
 once you adjust. The new abilities are amazing and fit right into the gameplay as if they have 
 always belonged, especially the new time stop , this one skill will save you countless times. and 
 at only 40 bucks its not that bad a deal for a game that will likely satisfy for quite a while, 
 play through by yourself, then play it again in coop. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
