-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Dirt
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/xbox360/driving/cmr07/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Six distinct racing disciplines.
 enjoyable mix of arcade and simulation driving.
 gorgeous looking tracks and cars that deform and break apart very nicely.
 slick menu presentation.
 tons of offline races to play through.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Cars have something of a floaty feel to them.
 frame rate tanks hard during certain scenarios.
 multiplayer options are like a cruel joke.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jun 19, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.3
Critic Score: 8.4, 74 Review (s)
User Score: 8.5, 2,692 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Codemasters
Genre: Rally / Offroad Racing
Date: Jun 19, 2007
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
As a graphical showpiece, DiRT is an unbridled success. It also happens to be an entirely enjoyable 
 rally racer. 

  Fans of Codemasters' Colin McRae rally racing series are in for a surprise with the publisher's 
 newest title, DiRT. DiRT has more in common with Digital Illusions' Rallisport Challenge series 
 than the Colin McRae games of old, putting a greater emphasis on a variety of off-road racing disciplines, 
 as opposed to sticking hard and fast to traditional rally racing. That's not to say that rally 
 fans will be disappointed with the game. DiRT veers a good bit further into arcade territory than 
 earlier games in the series, but it is still a blast to drive, and absolutely stunning to look 
 at.  

          It doesn't look quite as astonishing in motion, but DiRT is still one superb looking racer. 
     

  Let's just address that elephant in the room right off. There have been plenty of driving games 
 of late that have been visually impressive, but very few live up to the visual fidelity displayed 
 by DiRT. This game is a technical achievement in car design, track design, and damage modeling. 
 To begin with, the cars are beautifully rendered, highly detailed models that are as fantastic 
 to look at as they are to destroy. Damage modeling is one of the most impressive aspects of the 
 game; you can lose bumpers or doors, break glass, tear up the paintjob, and roll your ride into 
 a crushed, deformed mess. Tracks are equally beautiful and destructible. From the rain-slick tarmac 
 tracks of Japan and the dusty backroads of Italy to the muddy, gravelly countryside of the UK, 
 DiRT nails every environment wonderfully. The game also uses lighting to fantastic effect, not 
 just to emphasize how shiny and reflective the cars are, but to give each track an individual atmosphere. 
 Driving around desert mountains in the washed-out haze of late day is an amazing sight to behold, 
 for sure. And if you feel like tearing up these tracks, you can bust through fences, barriers, 
 bushes, and anything else not held to the ground with concrete. All the while, dirt, mud, or gravel 
 will kick up against and often stick to your car, making the game's namesake seem entirely appropriate. 

  As amazing as the game looks, all that detail comes at a bit of a price. Performance is not always 
 up to snuff, especially in races with multiple cars on the track. The frame rate is a little choppy 
 during single-car rallies, but once you get a group of other cars racing with you, the game practically 
 turns into stop-motion animation, especially if all the other cars happen to be bunched up with 
 you. This is more of a consistent issue on the 360 version, though the PC version is highly taxing 
 even on high-end hardware, so you're likely to run into some performance problems unless you're 
 running a top of the line machine. Longer-than-average load times also tend to rear their ugly 
 head (primarily in the 360 version) . Even still, the game never becomes unplayable because of the 
 crummy frame rate or lengthy loads, and at worst, these are merely annoyances.  

  The quality of the presentation doesn't begin and end with the in-game graphics either. Even the 
 menu system is immaculately built. It's hard to describe it, except to call it a bunch of floating 
 boxes with selectable options that zoom in and out as you select them. Even the loading screens 
 are cool because they display real-time statistics on your game, such as your favorite tracks or 
 vehicles, your average speed, and even your favorite driving surface. Menus are usually a forgotten 
 element of a game unless they're specifically bad, so the fact that DiRT's are notable for how 
 good they are says something.  

  Audio is not quite as immediately impressive as the visuals, but it is great all the same. Engine 
 noise is probably the best aspect because each car has a definitive and unique sound to it that 
 feels just right. Crashes and other racing effects are also excellently produced. The soundtrack 
 isn't licensed, but the instrumentals that play over the various menus and replays are quite solid. 
 The only damper on the category is your codriver, an obnoxious, bro-sounding dolt whose dialogue 
 sounds like it was written by a nonnative English speaker and whose only reference for the language 
 was reruns of  Saved By the Bell . Lines like "Smooth and steady; I'm Mr. Smooth, and you're Mr. 
 Steady," and "Yeah! We won the championship! I'm so  stoked !" are funny once, but then they're 
 annoying from there on out. At least he gives you some good info on the tracks before you race. 

          This ain't your daddy's rally racing game.     

  Once you've snapped out of the trance that DiRT's fantastic presentation tends to lull you into, 
 you might remember that this is a racing game and that you do actually have to play it. It's a 
 good thing it's a fun one. The game includes six different racing disciplines, which consist of 
 rally, rallycross, hillclimb, CORR, crossover, and rally raid varieties. If you don't know what 
 half of those are, don't fret. The game does a good job of easing you into the game's style of 
 racing, with both some rather simple early races, as well as an explanatory narration by extreme 
 sports maven and current Rally America champion Travis Pastrana.  

  Granted, even if you've never jumped into a CORR race in your life, DiRT isn't exactly a difficult 
 game to grasp. You're racing down a course by yourself, trying to get the best time possible, or 
 racing against other cars, buggies, or trucks on dirt and tarmac tracks. Most of the differences 
 in gameplay come from how the various vehicles handle. There is obviously a big difference between 
 driving a speedy Mitsubishi FTO and a massive racing big rig (yes, they actually have those) . But 
 even with all the differences among disciplines, the racing is always easy to pick up and play. 
 DiRT has a decidedly arcade-driving sensibility that makes all the vehicles relatively easy to 
 race with from the outset. Once you've gotten a feel for how all the different cars and tracks 
 feel, you can simply crank up the difficulty, which in turn makes your opponent racers much more 
 adept, and also leaves your car far more open to terminal damage. On the highest setting, all it 
 takes is one good front-end collision to send you packing.  

  As realistic as the damage incurrence can be, the rest of the game definitely maintains an arcade 
 mentality. Nearly all the vehicles have a decidedly floaty feel to them, one that seems to overcompensate 
 for nearly every minute turn of the analog stick (if you're playing the PC version, you will need 
 a dual analog controller of some fashion to play the game properly) . It's not unmanageable or anything, 
 but it's far from realistic. By the same token, the game's physics are often a bit silly, especially 
 in wrecks. That's not an insult by any means because the exaggerated physics lead to some absolutely 
 spectacular wrecks in many cases. But there are some eye-roll-worthy moments where you'll see a 
 car tilt from lying on its side all the way back upright for no good reason or drive sideways up 
 a cliff to land back on four wheels.  

  Floaty feel and wonky physics aside, DiRT is still a great deal of fun to play. Once you get a 
 feel for the controls and up the difficulty a bit, the racing can be intensely challenging, addictive, 
 and immersive. It's especially immersive if you happen to take in one of the game's two exceptionally 
 good cockpit camera views. There's a zoomed-in view and a view that's a bit further back. Both 
 views give you a great sense of being in the driver's seat, even going so far as to let you look 
 around inside the car via the right analog stick. Not enough racers do the cockpit camera that 
 well, and DiRT is worth lauding for doing it especially well.  

  As fun as the racing can be, it wouldn't be worth much if DiRT didn't offer up plenty of ways to 
 experience it. Fortunately, it does the job. Apart from being able to take part in single races 
 and events, as well as a series of championships, consisting of multiple races each, DiRT also 
 has a lengthy, involving career mode that has you working your way up a literal pyramid of events. 
 Winning races earns you points, which unlock new tiers of the career mode and cash, which you can 
 use to buy new vehicles or liveries for said vehicles. With more than 60 career events, nearly 
 50 vehicles to unlock, and more than 180 liveries to buy for those vehicles, that ought to keep 
 you busy.  

          Few games have ever displayed such dynamic damage modeling.     

  The one feature that DiRT skimps badly on is multiplayer support. There is multiplayer, but just 
 barely. Only two disciplines -- rally and hillclimb -- are available to play in multiplayer. But wait, 
 aren't those the two disciplines that don't have you competing directly against other cars? You 
 bet. Essentially, you're dumped into a lobby with potentially dozens of other players, and from 
 there, you vote on which track you want to play. The available list to vote on is always random, 
 and there's no option to pick a different car or even search for a lobby with specific cars/tracks 
 available. Once you're in a race, it's merely a time trial against all the other players. You can 
 see how you're doing in the real-time standings, but that's all. While the Colin McRae series has 
 never been known for great multiplayer support, the total lack of online racing in a game that 
 debuts several wheel-to-wheel racing types is a gigantic tease and really disappointing.  

  That said, the multiplayer support is really the only thing about DiRT you can call truly disappointing. 
 On every other front, DiRT delivers a racing experience that's a lot of fun to play and visuals 
 that are such a joy to watch that you can even bring yourself to forgive the shoddy frame rate. 
 All around, DiRT is a class act, and it belongs in any racing fan's library.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (162 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Kev_Boy
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 30, 2009 2:57 pm PT
Review:  This game can be quite fun to play - but watch out - it may crash your 360!
  
  I had one of the earlier batches of 360 so I was reluctant to blame the game (even though it was 
 the only one repeatedly locking up) but after purchasing a new 360 and still finding it locking 
 up my system I will not risk playing the game any more.
  
  It was fun while it lasted and it's an enjoyable racer, just be aware of this problem, it doesn't 
 seem to be very well documented so that's the reason I put forth this little review.
  
  I won't go into details about the graphics or game-play, plenty of other reviews out there for 
 that. Basically this is a rally game with lone tracks against the clock or races against a few 
 others. Oddly enough a split-screen mode is missing, there's just no excuse for a racing game not 
 to have one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Endach
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 28, 2009 7:04 am PT
Review:  
  
  Some say that DiRT has too much racing and that the game takes so long to load you could down a 
 pint and smoke three packs of cigarettes before it launches. All I know is that it's one extremely 
 fun game and I have perhaps made the worst Top Gear presenter spoof of all time. 
  
  But just like Top Gear, DiRT is something you can enjoy immensely. It has the looks and feel of 
 a well formed game and leads to endless segments of fun. The graphics aren't stunning, but they 
 are damn good and when you think that all you are really doing is driving a vehicle as quickly 
 as you possibly can you don't have time to stop and smell the shaders, or count the polygons on 
 the blur of passing foliage; you have to ask yourself one very simple question.. "Am I having fun?" 
 and the simple answer with DiRT is "YES!". There will always be someone who will nay-say DiRT, 
 but that same person is probably riding a bicycle to save the earth as oppose to roaring down the 
 roads at terrifying speeds and placing countless lives in jeopardy. Do you want a Schwinn or a 
 rally car?
  
  DiRT is not one of those racing games that places you in the doldrums of a circular track on perfectly 
 smooth tarmac where all you have to do is point the car in one general direction and 'mash the 
 gas'.. Though if you can't gather any of that by the name of the game then perhaps you should waddle 
 back to primary school. In DiRT you will find yourself racing in rally cars, buggies, souped up 
 semis and other tracks of nearly every type you can fathom. There are all types of racing modes 
 and track locations that circle the globe. Now, I actually read one review where a hapless player 
 mentioned that DiRT is just one race after another and that player is absolutely correct. DiRT 
 is unapologetically about racing, it's about customizing your car, buying new ones and then conquering 
 each new track as you see fit. I would almost call DiRT an sort of non-commitment game.. You can 
 run a single race before a meal and turn it off anytime you wish. You don't have to worry about 
 inane story telling, or spending hours picking up 'lightseeds' scattered about endlessly. There 
 are no guns strapped to your car, you are not blowing up traffic, you are not staring at women 
 and 'huge tracts of land'. In DiRT you race. 
  
  One of the most interesting and at the same time frustrating thing about DiRT is that it shows 
 you how you placed against other players all over the world (assuming your 360 is connected to 
 the web) and the first thing you will discover is that the top player is almost always a Scandinavian 
 in a Lancia Delta.. But their fall from the top is swiftly approaching!
  
  Sure I could go into agonizing detail over every minuscule nuance of the game, but anyone who is 
 thinking of buying this aging, but wonderful game has already read plenty of mind numbing reviews 
 that rate the game on every nebulous aspect , but I am not going to! No, I am going to slap a rating 
 of 10 on this game because it's a damn joy to play. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: philp37
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 12, 2008 5:41 pm PT
Review:  A year and half after its release, and DIRT is still the best racing or driving game ever produced 
 for the X-Box 360 or any other platform. Even it's asphalt sister game GRID, doesn't measure up 
 in polish or in pure playability. 
  
  Speaking of asphalt, there is plenty of that in DIRT too. DIRT gets off the dirt and onto the asphault 
 on aproximately 40% of the content; offering a more varied.
  
  It was one of the first games I ever purchased for my X-Box 360, and although I have purchased 
 more than 30 others (almost all rated 8.5 or better by this and other gaming sites) , DIRT continues 
 to be in my top 3 all time X-Box 360 favourites.
  
  The game offers such a wide varriance of types of racing and levels within those types, that first 
 time driving gamers will have no problem getting competitive quickly, yet master gamers will Never 
 master it.
  
  If I can think of a negative, its that I want more of it. Even though the number of tracks and 
 cars and adjustments is greater than almost any other driving game and I will never be good enough 
 to make it boring, I would love to see some new downloadable content. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: theyblizzard
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 10, 2008 8:28 am PT
Review:  Finally got a chance to play through it. Visually this is a great game. Great models, lighting, 
 damage and physics.
  
  I am not sure why liveries seem to cost money when the only thing they affect is the cars appearance. 
 On the other hand, all of the mechanical modifications are free. Since there aren't any parts that 
 you can swap and upgrade, I didn't feel motivated or persuaded by the game to go and tweak the 
 settings.
  
  Multiplayer is a disappointment but if you are more into rallies than anything else, like men, 
 then this is not a factor.
  
  I wish I was able to save the replays, especially to show off some of the great looking wrecks. 
 I find that the replays look much better from the sideline cameras. It is however a shame that 
 there is only one sideline camera you can choose from. But that is a minor detail.
  
  It is worth a play if you're into rallies, if not, its worth a rent and play for the visual appeal. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Slashfan10
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 4, 2008 11:07 am PT
Review:  I had heard that this game was really good, so i decided to get it when the price dropped below 
 thirty dollars for used. I got home and put it in, and instantly fell in love with the graphics 
 and damage modeling. It is really accurate with the damage, and where it affects your car. One 
 thing that gets on my nerves is the constant whining of the turbos. It is really loud compared 
 to the other engine noises. It has a nice set of not-overly-difficult achievements to unlock. And 
 you can go through the entire career at whatever level you feel comfortable with, as well as changing 
 it for every race. So, if you are not as fast on a crossover, as a AWD rally, you can tone the 
 difficulty down and still get the full points for the event. That makes it a bit easier to complete 
 the career with all the points in each event. Overall, it has a nice variety of cars, buggies, 
 and trucks. If you liked rallysport challenges then this is worth a look. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MightyJordan
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 29, 2008 2:46 pm PT
Review:  A weird thing about this game is that it's got the late Colin McRae's name on it, but the voice 
 acting in the main menu is done by Travis Pastrana, who apparently used to race ATVs.
  
  With that annoyance aside, the main menu is pretty dynamic and modern for starters. You can move 
 the menu around with the right stick to see it from different angles.
  
  The gameplay will take some getting used to. The learning curve is a bit steep. When you've unlocked 
 most of the cars, you should then be alright to take it online against up to 100 people! The way 
 they've achieved this is that technically, you're not racing each other. Everyone races the track 
 on their own, and the times are tallied up at the end. Shame we don't have rallycross events online 
 with multiplayer.
  
  Forget about the flaws, and please play this game to honour the late great Colin McRae. It's more 
 than worthy to bear the late great legend's name.
  
  Also, if you love GRID, be sure to thank DiRT, as if it weren't for this, GRID wouldn't have been 
 as good as it is today. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dmiisha_796
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 20, 2008 8:42 pm PT
Review:  DiRT, is first and formost an off-road racing game (most of the time) . There are a few different 
 races where your racing on tarmac so it can't be an all round off-road racer. Anyway, lets start 
 with a few major aspects which DiRT does so well in, starting with....... GRAPHICS!
  
  This game has some really good graphics no matter what platform you play it on. The visual presentation 
 is just so good the only words that can describe it are: 'Jaw Dropping visuals, man!'. But its 
 not just the car models and tracks that look great, the damage models look awesome as well and 
 it really makes you want to damage yor car just to see the wreckage. That being said the lighting 
 is also very cohesive with the presentation of the car models. The light just makes the cars look 
 so shiny and make the tracks look more realistic and a liitle bit shiny as well.
  
  There are two new camera angles in this game then in any other racers, the zoomed-in cockpit camera 
 and the not zoomed-in cockpit camera. These two new variations provide a nice look at what really 
 happens behind the wheel of a dirt racing car. Although some cars have a very small space between 
 the front windshield and the car's body frame, the racing still looks good from where you would 
 be sittiing in the cockpit.
  
  There are also 6 racing diciplines for you to endauvuer. These races vary from you driving a buggy 
 ofroad, to a Mitsubishi on a tarmac, to a big rig climbing a hillside. These races are really fun 
 and they can get really immersive if you crank up the difficulty a little bit. Then there is the 
 carrer mode where your basically just racing and getting points, unlock cars and purchase other 
 stuff for your cars (to suup it up a bit) .
  
  Then there is the cons of this game. First of all, the cars can get preety unreal to be true. For 
 instance, you will see some of your cars float through the track without the rear bumper even coming 
 close to the road. Then there is that multiplayer mode. This mode is a real dissapointment seeing 
 as how all you can do is battle time trials with your friends. There aren't even any races where 
 you and a friend (or possibly even three other friends at least) are pit against each other in 
 a test of pure video gaming and care handling skill. If only those kind of races where in the multiplayer 
 for it would have been a much better mode if it did have competitive races instead of just time 
 trials, which are really boring after a while.
  
  Well anyway, this game is a real piece of work with all the pros and cons considered. Furthermore, 
 there are too little cons to knock this racer off the track staright into your gaming library. 
 So of your a hardcore or just a regular racer, just get this game. You wont be sorry, most of the 
 time. HEHEHEHE. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skeeb23
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 30, 2008 8:56 pm PT
Review:  See above...
  
  This is a great game. Awesome graphics and sound! The playability is very good for a racer. I admit 
 sometimes it feels although you are flying around on ice when you race in the dirt/mud though. 
 Not that I have raced one of those cars in the dirt/mud so maybe it is dead on realistic.
  
  As far as my mention of repetative... you get to a point where you are doing the same things 
 like any racer. The thing is that you cant hop online and dual with someone nor can you do it locally 
 and that is a major setback for me. I like to have fun with friends but this is pretty much a loner 
 game. Dont get me wrong... it has a great career mode. Luckily I have other racers to compete my 
 friends with and this one is just the eye candy one haha.
  
  
  I would suggest trying the demo first... if you like it then buy it. Especially now it can be had 
 for pretty cheap and you will get lots of hours of fun out of it for sure! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cbathe
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 5, 2008 8:49 pm PT
Review:  this game is all a rally car enthusiast could ask for.
  
  The fact that it covers so many series and allows so many cars to be accessible by the player based 
 on their race earnings is a very addictive formula.
  
  I appreciate the Big Rig racing on the Pike's Peak course the most because having watched them 
 do it on ESPN, it seemed like such an odd choice for a racing vehicle.
  
  The graphics are fantastic, as is the soundtrack. The soundtrack does get a bit bothersome after 
 a while because there are maybe only 4-5 tracks in the game and there is only so much euro-trash 
 techno trance music before you want to nuke the tunes.
  
  I would recommend this game to anyone who is interested in racing that requires more of its drivers 
 than turning left.
  
  Here's hoping the group that put this game out also work on an F1 game!
  
  Cheers! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zyllus_
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 1, 2008 7:21 pm PT
Review:  Dirt is a good rally racer that can give you a good time for a good while. Then you start noticing 
 how repetitive this game can actually get. You feel as if you have raced this map, and raced this 
 race type 2 races ago. The only thing that keeps the game from losing your interest is the unlockable 
 cars.
  
  THE GOOD
  -Dirt has very amazing graphics, the cars and the terrain look so superb it is almost unbelievable. 
 
  - Crashing your car is hard to resist from how beautiful the car damage looks.
  - The menu's in this game have to be the most slickest and glamorous to look at, and play with.
 
  - Online play is very enjoyable.
  - Unlocking and playing with new cars is a good feeling.
  
  
  THE BAD
  - Car handling is 
 odd, and seems like your car is hovercraft.
  - You have the ability to modify your cars handling, breaks etc. to fit the track type, but most 
 of the things you can edit you either have to know cars very well or you have to take the time 
 to look up the terms. A useless feature though.
  - Racing is REPETITIVE 
  
  
  Well overall Dirt is an okay game, maybe rent it first. I am the kind of guy though that needs 
 more out of a game then what Dirt offered. Maybe you will be different. Definitely worth renting 
 though.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: peza141
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 12, 2008 11:38 am PT
Review:  This the latest game from codies is the best offroad racer i have played yet. It provides edge 
 of your seat racing because one small mistake at 100mph will usally damage your car too badly for 
 you to finish the event. With great car graphics and the most relistic damage model yet. the only 
 place where the graphics let you down in dirt is the backgrounds they are only minor improvement 
 on its predecssor toca racedriver 3. The cars seen in dirt are all modeled in the most detail possible, 
 even the interiors look really good. There are over 45 cars to choose from in dirt and lots of 
 different race classes to choose from be it traditional rallying to rallycross, buggies and classic 
 rally cars there is plenty to keep a fan of racing games occupied.
  
  Each car you drive handles in a totaly different way to other cars. The track design is great, 
 there are varied surfaces on one stage like you could start on gravel go onto mud and finish on 
 tarmac.
  
  The career mode in dirt has you starting off at the bottom of a pyramid and working your way up 
 to the top, each event you do you will earn cash which you can use to buy better cars and new liveries 
 for your cars. For the car fanatics out there you can set up your car however you like by tweaking 
 things such as break bias and tyre pressures. 
  
  The games ai is really good it provides a good challange however forza players will want to jump 
 striaght to the hardest diffaculty. The ai is really unpredictable they randomly ovetake each other 
 and some crash and spin out. 
  
  Finally dirt is a great game that is must have for racing fans espically fans of the toca series 
 i really recommend you pick up a copy of this great game.
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: beutlich99
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 10, 2008 10:07 pm PT
Review:  I have been hoping and hoping for a RalliSport Challenge to come to the 360, because in my opinion 
 it is the best video game rendition of rally racing. I'll admit it, I'm not so in to simulation 
 racers, but I also don't like full arcade racers either (i. e. Burnout) . I tried a few of the Colin 
 McCrae racers for the original Xbox and they were fairly decent, but just a touch to simulator 
 like for me. I was wary of Dirt, because once again, it is a Colin McCrae game. I am happy to report 
 though, that it is much more like RalliSport Challenge than any C. M. game has been so far. The 
 nice thing about Dirt though, is that if you want it to be extremely simulation like, it can be. 
 Just up the difficulty and you've got full damage modeling, which is a real pain at times. If you 
 don't like that, lower the difficulty down as low as it can go, and you can pretty much run the 
 car through a wall without much bad happening. There is a HUGE assortment of race types. Sometimes 
 I actually found myself wishing there were less, just so I could get used to one type of racing 
 for awhile. My one BIG complaint about the game is that there is no 2 player split screen. I don't 
 have XBL, but I do like to have buddies over who enjoy racing games that allow you to race head 
 to head. Other than that, if you like rally racing games, you'll like Dirt. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: coolguy735
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 1, 2008 2:18 am PT
Review:  When I first got this game I used the wheel. I stopped playing it for ages then decided to come 
 back to it but this time with the pad. I realised how addictive it is. The races have a big variety 
 and there are so much different vehicles from trucks to minis! Its detailed so that you can adjust 
 your car but I don't bother I just wanna race! Sometimes after a few races it can get a bit boring 
 but don't all racing games? The main bad thing is that there's no multiplayer which is really annoying. 
 The graphics are great and they have decided to make the backround look very realistic, not just 
 a load of fuzz.
  You can play this with the wheel but it can get frustrating so I'd recommend starting off with 
 the pad and when your really good use the wheel ( if you have got one. ) It is a very addictive 
 game which makes you want to keep on doing one more race though sometimes they get a bit boring. 
 All in all a great looking and playing single player racing game though I wish they had multiplayer. 
 
  My score would be 8.7 ( cant put that on the slide and rate ) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rezpatriot
Rating: 10
Date: May 12, 2008 9:35 am PT
Review:  I rented this game for 7 days and really got nowhere close to completing the game, even if I had 
 played it solidy (I didn't) then I still would not have completed anywhere close to it. I would 
 definately recommend this as a buy, and I'm not sure how sweet the LIVE version is but it is probably 
 extra great stuff. 1p is set into Championship and Career and another one which I forget, but yeah 
 start with career. You unlock chassis, and general buy cars after completing races or tracks on 
 different difficulties. Its a great game, and the races themselves are awesome and brilliant graphics.
 
  
  Colin McRae Rally DIRT is located in Continental places, Australia, USA, Britain, France, Italy, 
 Spain. You can choose your name and flag and thats about it, and you are helped along the way by 
 an American Driver.
  
  I won't unleash too much of the beast on you now, but I'm recommending this one for the older audience 
 or younger audience or families too, its great ! ! ! Get it or be left behind ! ! ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tarbandu
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 25, 2008 12:26 pm PT
Review:  DiRT is the best racing game available for any next-gen platform. It's superior in gameplay and 
 user-friendliness to any franchise churned out by EA ('Need for Speed') or Bugbear ('Burnout') . 
 What makes DiRT so good ?
  
  - Career mode offers a pyramidal structure to work your way through the races. Until you reach 
 the paex of the pyramid, there's always a set of events, rather than one or two 'must win' races, 
 that are offered to you. So if you do bad in one set of events (say, Rally) , you have other events 
 (Championship Off-Road Racing, Hill Climb) in the same tier you can recoup points and placements 
 in. This means you're never grinding thru rep after rep after rep of the same race, in order to 
 get the first-place finish that unlocks the remaining 70% of the game.
  
  -You can restart any race in any event without penalty. 
  
  -You can stop and save progress 
 after any completed event. A great feature for when you have only enough free time for 15  30 
 mins of play.
  
  -You can adjust the difficulty level (there are 5 levels) of any event. So if at "Pro" level you're 
 getting spanked by the AI and unable to finish in the top 3, you can reduce the difficulty and 
 get that podium finish. Be warned, the top two difficulty levels can be very challenging.
  
  -Great graphics (altho some races seem underlit) . Courses are provided with enough resolution 
 and crispness that even with the dirt flying, you can still see where you need to go, with adequate 
 draw-distance always in your favor.
  
  -Overall, great vehicle handling and physics  although some cars still handle like hovercraft, 
 the bane of Colin McRae on Xbox, being able to adjust difficulty means you can live with this aspect 
 of the gameplay.
  
  -Turn calls for rally races continue to be spot-on for the most part. Rarely will you go flying 
 off the road to your doom because the co-driver blows a call.
  
  -Good quality soundtrack and sound effects. Travis Pastrana's "way to go dude !" style voiceovers 
 set the mood perfectly.
  
  -Sheer 'fun factor'. The frustrations that are inevitable in Forza 2, Need for Speed, Burnout, 
 are all absent here.
  
  The game does have some weaknesses. 
  
  -The career mode 'per cent completed' tally can be deceiving, since you finish all races after 
 you complete about 45 % of the career mode. There's still a good 20 hr to the career mode, depending 
 on how many restarts you indulge in.
  
  -There continues to be a rather arbitrary quality to what constitutes a 'difficult' level between 
 one set of events and another, in terms of placement. I found Hill Climb on any given difficulty 
 easier to garner a podium finish, than the crossover segments of the rallies, where a podium finish 
 was rare.
  
  -The load screens for each event can be a bit long
  
  My summary: with the price now down to $40 or less, if you like racing games, you need to have 
 this. 
  
  I can only hope that Codemasters makes their upcoming GRID (evidently the next iteration in the 
 Pro Race Driver / TOCA series) as user-friendly. If they do, I'll buy GRID.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: shadygeneral
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 25, 2008 1:08 am PT
Review:  Great little racer. 
  
  The presentation is fantastic. The courses are really beautiful, especialy for such an old game. 
 The lighting effects are also really something special. The way the light passes through the trees 
 & bounces off your car is a great videogame sight. Most the courses are set off road (obviously) 
 & theres foliage as far as the eyes can see. The car models are also spectacular. 
  Which makes it all the more upsetting that the framerate stutters in replays & when theres a lot 
 going on screen. Theres also some slight screen tear & visible draw in. But none of this actualy 
 affects the racing so its not too bad. It just ruins the slickness of the rest of the package. 
 
  Sorry to go on about the graphics for so long but it really is a great site & is very refreshing 
 form all the drab greys we seem to be getting this gen. 
  
  The sound is also worth a mention. Through a good sound system its one of the best audio treats 
 ive heard. The sound of crashes can make you whince even when you're not looking at the screen, 
 the engine noises are great especialy when driving next to walls or in tunnels. It just bounces 
 the sound around, its just brilliant. But as the presentation is let down by some slight niggles 
 so is this. One niggle in particular - the American voice on the menu & the American co-driver. 
 Grrrrr. Its so annoying, I almost turned the sound off completely. 
  
  Then the racing - its a lot more arcadey than any other Colin Mcrae released. The emphasis is purely 
 on sliding round corners as fast as possible. It still requires a lot of breaking but its mainly 
 a foot down adrenaline rush. & when you are driving down a small offroad with trees each side of 
 you, it really does feel incredibly fast & is exhilarating. 
  But like the rest of the package, its not without its problems. Mainly the fact that its no longer 
 focused on rally stages. We now have CORR, Rallyraids, Rallycross, Hillclimb & Crossover. These 
 all include other racers on the same track except Hillclimb. The problem is apart from Hillclimb, 
 the stages for these events are pretty dull & there is only a couple of tracks for each of them. 
 You are also forced to drive big 4x4's that are way too light, slow & generaly not fun to drive. 
 It really could have benefited from keeping simple & focusing on Rally events IMO. 
  
  All in all though the good outweighs the bad, the single player structure is really well thought 
 out & the difficulty can be pitched perfectly to your level. It's a great racer thats well worth 
 a go.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: segaraptor
Rating: 6.5
Date: Apr 24, 2008 7:09 am PT
Review:  DiRT was at first very impressive. I was initially blown away by it's graphics, and the wide variety 
 of dirt-based race types seemed to enrich the Colin McRae experience. 
  
  But that has become the problem. I thought I was getting, essentially, the next chapter in the 
 CMR series.... But as of this review, I've crashed enough dune buggies and driven so many big rigs 
 up a hill that I realize this ain't yer daddy's CMR. Actually, it'd rather appeal to yer daddy 
 than appeal to a rally racing fan (given that your father is less worldly than you and isn't already 
 a rally fan) . 
  
  This isn't a rally game. 
  
  It's hard for me to say it, but it's now obviously true. I've owned and played every entry in the 
 CMR series since its second inception on the PC. It was a somewhat hardcore WRC-style rally game 
 series that was one of the few I'd say I didn't find fun but enjoyed nonetheless. It's about the 
 challenge of flinging an Impreza through mud and gravel and snow at 160 kph and not destroying 
 the car, all the while knowing that someone else is not only succeeding at that very task but doing 
 it in record time.
  
  There are stages of this nature in DiRT, and they're fantastic. But they're interspersed among 
 the garbage truck (yes, garbage truck) races and big rig hill-climbs. 
  
  So, in order to finish career mode and race those rallies, you'll have to wade through the muck 
 of boring and sometimes uncontrollably out-of-control racing types (9 times out of 10, I had to 
 restart one dune buggy race because within the first 15 seconds, the AI racers would swerve over 
 to me and lock my wheels up, forcing me to turn sideways and go off-course, into a wall... nothing 
 I could do differently to avoid that) .
  
  In the U. S., DiRT does not have Colin McRae's name in the title, but his name does appear in the 
 game as a racer on the rally stages. I suppose this should indicate that this isn't a CMR game 
 at all. 
  
  R. I. P. to Colin himself, and now R. I. P. to his video game franchise. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: charma
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 12, 2008 11:09 am PT
Review:  I bought this game when it first came out, but just started playing it again. My friend who loves 
 racing games scored 1000/1000 gamer points on Dirt -- his only game scoring all points. What I 
 like about this game is the sense of rush when you're taking those turns at almost full speed. 
 There is a variety of racing styles and a 46 total cars to acquire in the game, not to mention 
 the 120+ liveries (paint/decal styles for your car) available. This game has a career mode and 
 a champion mode. So far I'm only doing career, but to get all the achievements you'll need to race 
 online, single player career, and single player championship. There are varying degrees of difficulty 
 you can make the AI, from rookie all the way to champion. The online racing unfortunately is a 
 little lame - you don't see the other cars when you're racing them. You can be racing all at the 
 same time, but your position is based on your time to the finish line. There's nothing like the 
 feel of true head-to-head racing. However, you will get this with the single player racing when 
 you race against the AI opponents.
  
  The sound and graphics for the most part do a good job in the presentation. There are moments of 
 "wow" when you flip or run your car into something and body pieces come flying off. There is an 
 in-car view too, which is good because it adds to the realism. I recommend this game if you like 
 racing games. For a rally racer, it's currently the best on the 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WonderBread88
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 29, 2008 9:48 pm PT
Review:  Storyline: N/A - Dirty Rally Racing. No Story.
  
  Graphics/Physics: 9.5 - Dirty and filthy have never looked so good. Graphics are fantastic and 
 extremely realistic for racing standards. Sometimes a bit too much bloom or glare.
  
  Sound: 9 - Sound quality is great and has realisitic value. Rich quality in the car sounds and 
 impacts.
  
  Environment/Maps: 8 - Maps are at times a little rigid with the sharp turns, but most of the maps 
 have great quality in the which adds to the fun factor.
  
  Game Engine/Scripting: 7 - Engine tends to cause the game to randomly lag or tank out, seems to 
 happen during menu and other random times during gameplay
  
  Interface: 9 - Cars have a floaty feeling to them. I didn't expect to have this much fun with dirt 
 rally racing or off-road, lets just say I was wrong with my expectations. This game is great.
 
  -----------------------------------------------
  
  Overall: 8.5 - Dirt and Filth have never looked so good. I started playing with low expectations 
 and this game proved itself worthy. I was expecting this to be worse that the TOCA series, but 
 I thought it was actually better. Dirt and Off-road rally racing turned out to be quite alot of 
 fun. The handling of every car did seem to be a bit floaty but I only had problems on a few tracks 
 with it. Occassionally I did get annoyed with a particular track or two, specifically the 2nd of 
 Tier 1, so early in the game for one of this challange. The game lots of fun and certainly worth 
 buying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: teletran0n3
Rating: 6
Date: Mar 10, 2008 1:03 pm PT
Review:  I wanted a good race game and Dirt seemed to have gotten good reviews, so I decided to rent it 
 before shelling out full price. Best choice I have made since deciding to buy an Xbox 360. 
  
  Maybe I expected too much. It wasn't horrible, but it wasn't what I wanted either. I left the 
 difficulty setting on pretty easy because I knew I was going to return it and wanted to burn through 
 as much as possible. It was tremendously easy. I know now why it kept telling me to move up a level. 
 
  
  The physics were decent, and the graphics were very good. I just didn't get into it. The crash 
 damage looked great, and I really appreciated the damage to the guard rails and other road side 
 hazards. That is about all the good I can say.
  
  It is just one race to the next. No story, or free roam, or anything really to help it along. Just 
 race after race. Not that this is a bad thing, but it needs some help somewhere to make it more 
 appealing. It's just missing something.
  
  Again, it isn't a bad game, but I want something else. Maybe some free roam, or some kind of story 
 line career or something to get me more involved like other racing games on the market. 
  
  My advice, rent first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JKX8
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 15, 2008 2:09 pm PT
Review:  In my opinion, DiRT is almost what Resistance was to Gears of War, except to Motor Storm. And yet.. it's 
 not. Instead it's just another rally-sport off-road racing game, except elite among all of its 
 predecessors. Here you race with buggies, trucks, qualified sport cars, and even semi's in both 
 intense and beautiful off-road and on-track courses.
  
  Then comes the solemnity of the game. When playing and you ram into another car or smash into a 
 wall -- let alone even scraping it -- your car takes damage. The visuals are so realistic that even 
 the affected damage is realistic -- your vehicle will start reacting to the physical damage accordingly; 
 so maintain a healthy ride and you won't be driving on your rims or suddenly racing a convertible. 
 Just the same, repairs don't cost money -- but time. So take that into consideration for your pit-crew 
 too.
  
  As far as the actual gameplay goes, it's rather intense. Classic time-attacks range from simple 
 wins to nail-biting closures, depending on your varying difficulties as-selected. General races 
 are especially exhileratingwhen driving on muddy or dirt tracks such as Chula Vista where the crooks 
 and bumps can either be fun or game-defining -- in a bad way.
  
  All and all it's a great game, with a couple notable flaws being: below-mediocre online gameplay, 
 no offline multiplayer, and incredibly lengthy loading times. Putting those aside, though, it's 
 an excellent rally-racer to boot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Avishkar14
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 12, 2008 1:36 am PT
Review:  The first thing I noticed about Dirt was the breathtaking graphics of the game. The bright sunlight, 
 the wet roads, the tarmac and the bright light being reflected from the car - no other racing game 
 till now has been able to match the graphics of this game ( including Forza) . I have been a gamer 
 for the past 3 and a half years and I have never come across a driving games with such good graphics 
 and no frame-rate issues.
  
  Gameplay of the game is damn good as well. Just love the driver's cam which appears so realistic. 
 Although the car damages are not quite detailed, but the way the cars bounce after a jump and the 
 way the car stops after hitting a rock - that just shows the hard work the developers have put 
 in for this game.
  
  Another noticeable thing of the game is the varied difficulty setting. We have five difficulty 
 settings in the game so that all types of gamers can have fun with the game.
  
  The game also has multiplayer which is not that great but nevertheless it is fun to play a race 
 or two with your buddies. The real deal is the single player of this game!
  
  Overall this game should be atleast tried by anyone who plays racing games. It is very different 
 from the other types of games and is definitely worth your money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: its_mmd
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 23, 2008 5:59 pm PT
Review:  grafically Collin McRae series were always one of the best in their period, but gameplay was in 
 the middle and sometimes fair.
  now DiRT is released with diffrent race types that are really enjoyable, modes that sometimes are 
 easy to win and let you advance in game step by step, it doesn't force you to be a pro first time 
 that you take the game controller in your hands. then, after a while you found that you are compeletly 
 involved with the game, its when you can test advanced difficulty. game has a wide range of race 
 types, cars and even liveries combining with its superb 3D menus that are providing the the best 
 game in the series and also his offroad genre.
  the game is being hurt with frame-rate problems what is seen when you are in heavy scenses and 
 accidents ,but must of times game runs on 60fps that it helps ignorig missed frames. 
  in the average Collin McRae Rally series are back in top after two years of absence and DiRT really 
 worth playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: F1racerjb
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 19, 2008 6:48 pm PT
Review:  The latest edition of the long runningColin Mcrae Rally" series is a memorable one! 
  Being the first in the series to grace the next gen consoles, this game had to be great in many 
 ways... and that it is! It lives up to its lineage of gameplay and car selection brought forth by 
 its predecessor, Colin Mcrae Rally 2005 and then some. I should mention here that Codemasters dropped 
 the "Colin McRae" title here in the states because virtually no one here except for hardcore rally 
 fans (like me) knows the name... Sadly this legend of motorsport died in August of 2007 along with 
 his son in a helicopter crash in his native Scotland...
  The series underwent a change as new disciplines such as "rally raid' and CORR events were added, 
 apparently to appeal to American fans who arent accustomed to races of one car at a time as in 
 traditional rallying.
  The traditional rallying is still in there ,though, along with hill climb events to round out the 
 experience.
  Players will travel throughout Europe and Australia as well as the US in search of victory in the 
 aforementioned events, but one place I was surprised to see missing from the game was Sweden or 
 any other alpine setting whatsoever, as well as no rain or any other kind of precipitation, which 
 is a slight disappointment for me, however other strengths in the game render these shortcomings 
 totally forgivable.
  The graphics themselves are the icing on the cake and you will be blown away, thanks to an all 
 new engine that makes use of the power of the 360, a seamless frame rate should also be noted.
 
  The multiplayer could use a little help as well because of lack of variety, but this game was 
 meant to be played in single player mode if you ask me.
  The bottomline; get it if you like off road racing and own a 360!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: meconate
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 16, 2008 8:20 am PT
Review:  Ive never really been a racing game fan, but DiRT really shows that racing games can be realistic 
 and very fun. The graphics on DiRT are brilliant and with it's brilliant gameplay. The only letdown 
 with this game is no Split-Screen racing and the online play is rather crap too. However, DiRT 
 was built for offline play and that's how it should stay.
  
  In DiRT, you can select many modes such as Career, Championship and Single Play. In Single Play 
 you get modes such as Time Trail and the usual. In Championship mode, you do many races and see 
 if you can reach the top lead. However, the best mode in my opinion is the Career. In career you 
 work your way up a pyramid chart and try to become the best. You buy new vehicles and new paintjobs 
 and basically race till you reach the top. The more races you compete in, the more money you earn 
 and the more cars you can buy.
  
  DiRT just really delivers great visuals along with great gameplay. The scenery looks stunning and 
 lifelike. Definately one of the best racing games to come out on the 360 so far.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: coldjonathan
Rating: 6
Date: Jan 8, 2008 12:46 pm PT
Review:  DiRT is a game with beautiful gameplay, graphics and more.
  But I won't go into that. You can read that in the main review.
  This review is mainly aimed 
 at the 360 version. But I think it applies to all of them.
  What I will say is that I own the first 2 Colin McRae games on the original Playstation, and by 
 god they were good.
  My favourite bit was how you could easily jump into a multiplayer game ON THE SAME CONSOLE. You 
 know, two people, racing each other, split screen. Before anyone had even thought of online play.
 
  This is where DiRT doesn't deliver. 
  DiRT is, in essence, a game to play with other people. All racing games are. You get bored with 
 racing AI cars. 
  Yet DiRT doesn't let you play against other people. Oh yes, it says you can play with system link. 
 If you have two systems. Unlikely. Oh, and you can only play 2 disciplines like this.
  Or you can play over Xbox live. But that doesn't mean you can play with friends. They might not 
 even have the console, let alone the game or Xbox Live (or similar for other consoles) . 
  So.. My biggest disappointment. One of the biggest let downs in racing game history, in my opinion.
 
  
  WHERE IS THE SPLIT-SCREEN RACING!!!!?!?!?!!!?!?!!
  
  Nope, it doesn't have any.
  A quite honestly wasted game.
  Which could have been so good. THIS is where the originals shined. 
 How the series became the greatest rally series ever. But failed when it hit this point.
  
  Thankyou, Codemasters. For giving us a game which fails to do what every other big racing game 
 does to date. Let 2 mates race each other on one TV, on one console. I would accept graphical downgrading 
 for this, anything.
  
  But instead, we get nothing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrriggzz99
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 22, 2007 7:09 pm PT
Review:  OK i just bought dirt its a good game and all graphics look great the ai acts a little strange 
 while racing them they seems to just be locked to the track its kinda lame and if u stop in the 
 middle of the road they wont even try that hard to get past u they will just go back in forth like 
 there retarded or sumthing on road corses it almost feels like your car is floating on the road 
 it would be nice to see some tire marks or sumthing on the road when u slide... and i think this 
 game would be great if u could drive off road and didnt have to be glued to the track.... well for 
 the road corses i can see not being allowed to go offcorse but for the tracks i wihs u could just 
 go in practice mode or sumthing and drive all around without having to actually race ... dose anyone 
 know of any games out or coming out that you can do this i think that would be sweet. But all in 
 all ide say rent this game first before you buy it.. i like it but i will probally trade it in very 
 soon. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DJ-PRIME90
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 21, 2007 1:19 pm PT
Review:  This game looks great.
  When on the tracks, if you hit almost any of your surroundings, they will break. If you hit a road 
 barrier, your cars length will be indented in it.
  The cars break up really nicely too. You can hit a big tree or a pole, and wherever they hit will 
 be indented into your car. And if you hit like a big rock on the track, the whole front of your 
 car will break up, you'll lose your wheels and the car will just look like a real mess.
  
  One downside is to mud tracks, I had kinda expected that you would really be able to make deep 
 tracks in the mud, but instead you just make light brown lines on the mud, and they will have almost 
 completely disappeared by the next time you drive by that spot.
  
  The vehicles have a lot of detail, especially from an inside camera angle.
  As your vehicle (mainly 
 trucks) , as you go over bumps and stuff, you can see all the shocks and springs reacting. At the 
 starting line, you can see the exhaust pipes vibrating as the vehicle revs, and on some vehicles 
 you'll also get to see the engine jumping around under the hood as you rev the engine.
  Inside the vehicles, you can see most of what is expected from a next gen game; working speedometer, 
 steering wheel, gear changing, etc.
  
  My favorite race type in this game is Rally, where you and a computer character race together as 
 he tells you what to do and you drive. Unfortunately, his instructions are hard to understand because 
 he'll usually tell you about turns way before you reach them, also sometimes he'll give you the 
 wrong type of turn that is coming up.
  I've found him to be more of a distraction more than anything, so I just turned him off and used 
 the map instead.
  It would have been nicer if the map was a little larger though...
  
  At the end of each race your character will celebrate with himself, but he does say the same thing 
 over and over again and also if you watch his mouth, you'll see that there is a voice talking, 
 but his mouth isn't moving.
  
  The achievements are pretty easy to get in this game, they're just time consuming more than anything.
 
  
  If you have any interest in drifting a lot and want to see your car smashed to bits, then this 
 game is probably worth at least a rent. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DJTurbo
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 19, 2007 6:02 am PT
Review:  So, the name of the later Colin Mc Rae could really get some smoke in your eyes with this game, 
 since it does a big "left 1 tight" turn with the other games of the series.
  This game is clearly a Race Driver "copy" on dirt surfaces without the story elements, the gameplay 
 is more pushed to the arcade side then ever before, especially when driving on tarmac (you feel 
 like you are on some rails, whenever you move the stick the car turns) .
  Even the structure of the career emphasises this: you don't take part anymore to specific rally 
 championships, you simply participate on events with a minimum of a single track to a max of three 
 (not counting the last event, where you actually have 5) . This does not let you really get the 
 hold on the car you are driving and the discipline itself, since you'll constantly change both 
 of them.
  This was probably made to make the game more appealing to casual players, and especially to american 
 players, since the classic rally discipline is not very well know in America, but it for sure is 
 backstep from what the series has always been.
  Talking of good things you'll surely enjoy the realistic graphics, with great cars, rendered till 
 the smallest detail, and the environments, all truly different and well represented.
  The damages system is great, you can actually destroy any single part of your car and the objects 
 placed in the environments will act very realistically: if you hit a sign it will not simply go 
 down, it will bend and then break and you car will suffer damages according to the zone fo the 
 impact.
  But maybe the greatest thing of all is the sense of speed, if you are a veteran of car games you'll 
 be astonished anyway, when you got 90 mph you'll feel like you are at 180 on any other car game, 
 simply awesome.
  What is both a good and a bad thing, as already stated is variety, you'll race buggies, rally cross, 
 raids, rallies, Corr, and my favourite 1 Hill Climbing, since the only other thing i bought this 
 game for (the main 1 was rallies) is the full course of the Pikes Peak race.
  
  In the end buy it if you want an arcade game with some variety, but avoid it if you want a solid 
 rally game (go get Colin 2005 instead) or a driving simulator (actually there's none for dirt surfaces, 
 get forza and drive on getaway zones) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: II-NewEra02-II
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 16, 2007 7:22 pm PT
Review:  i realy only have one prob ,with this style of off road racer .and its not even about the style 
 its about the online everything was fine and then they dont let you talk during the game. and when 
 you do get to after or befor the next match starts nobody is there... othe than that this game 
 is great .. the best of its kind to date i like the way the interface is and the screens flying 
 at you.. the off road trucks are fun and the big off road bus-4x4 is fun even though they are slow 
 .. all the diffrent cars are fun rwd, fwd, awd, turbo ,natural asp.. old new everything is there ...
 
  
  the main game is great ... and with the prob with not being able to talk to any body accept through 
 this pre written text you can choose with you left stick ... i cant find much to complain about 
 i love it and still play it to this day.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tillekaratne
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 14, 2007 7:45 am PT
Review:  I had the demo of DiRT as soon as it was available, because through my childhood I spent relentless 
 hours at the hands of a PlayStation 2 controller playing my old favourite: Colin McRae Rally 2. 
 I always preferred it to any of the sequels that followed. It seemed to have something the others 
 didn't...
  
  Then when I heard that a sequel was coming to the Xbox 360 I was very excited. After I'd played 
 the demo for about six hours, I was even more excited.
  
  The fantastic thing that DiRT has to offer is the variety of race-types. Pretty much every off-road/rally 
 event you can think of is available to play in the game.
  
  Career mode is at the heart of Colin McRae DiRT. You are presented with eleven tiers, each one 
 with a certain number of championships, each with a number of races/events. When you begin, championships 
 usually consist of no more than a single race, but the tiers are stacked up like a 'pyramid,' so 
 every time you advance a tier, there is one less championship to complete, but each championship 
 will be harder and deeper.
  
  The various different race modes available include the traditional Rally where you have a co-driver 
 providing you with stage-information; Crossover deriving from the 'Super Special Stages' found 
 in Rally events, where you race head-to-head around a dual-lane circuit; Rallycross events are 
 European-based races around circuits where you are up against many other drivers; CORR or Championship 
 Off-Road Racing races have you racing in buggies around a short track against other competition; 
 Hill Climb is similar to Rally, but you race uphill in 850hp monsters.
  
  Championship mode theoretically works similarly to the career. You race every Rally stage from 
 every country. There are three different championships, European (Great Britain, Italy, Germany) , 
 International (Japan, Australia, Spain) and Global which combines all into one Championship. You've 
 got access to most car classes, meaning you can take your pick from the many vehicles you can unlock 
 in career mode.
  
  The different difficulties are good: the easiest three can be done by pretty much anyone. Pro Am 
 is more difficult and requires more skill, and Pro can be very tricky to a novice.
  
  Other game modes include Rally World which is basically a 'free' stand-alone game mode where you 
 can race any stage with any vehicle. And Multiplayer lets you play Xbox LIVE and System Link games 
 against other racers. The Xbox LIVE feature is a good one if you have a poor internet connection 
 - there's no lag. Ever. You race at the same time as all the other drivers, and it informs you 
 of all the drivers' times. It is, however, quite limited, as you can only do Rally's and Hill Climbs 
 in the Ranked mode.
  
  Overall, the game plays incredibly. The graphics are stunning, and so are the environments. You 
 can take your pick out of many different camera angles: include an incredible 'first person' one 
 that lets you see as the driver would. There's a lot of depth: it took me more than fifteen hours 
 to just complete the career (about nine hours of actual driving time) and I completed the Championships 
 in about five or so hours. It is a truly fantastic game. Though there are one or two things that 
 would have made it a 10 out of 10 : - there are not enough Rally stages: I want to see Sweden, 
 Corsica, Argentina, etc... - a split-screen multiplayer would have been great. - Xbox LIVE is a 
 bit limited too.
  
  Otherwise, the game is brilliant, and a must to any racing fan.
  
  And R. I. P. Colin McRae. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bharath_yp
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 10, 2007 6:19 pm PT
Review:  Ya i guess so (i hate to admit it) ..... i am a pc fanbut my brothers X360 seems to really handle 
 well the graphics my PC is unbeatable... but X360 has that kind of FORZA Motorsport feel like to 
 it (i know i ave weird sense of game reviwing) ya but the box seems to handle every little detail 
 better than the pc like the car crashing details....... ya one heck of a game if u really want to 
 enjoy this winter on the mud.......... GO get it .... oh i relly forgot the menu interface is something 
 like out of the ordinary like onboard a spaceship or something like that... really worth dying for..... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: default9308
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 7, 2007 1:42 pm PT
Review:  Let's get right to it. This is the game racing fans have been waiting for. The first thing you'll 
 notice right of the bat (literally) is the amazing graphics. Even the menus are gorgeous, with 
 amazing colors and floating screens. the car models are amazing, and if you own a HDTV, you'll 
 notice the 1080p quickly. The textures are amazing and the dirt and grime that shows up on the 
 car is purely astounding. 
  There are a large amount of races to take part in. Big rig hill climbs, hill climbs, buggy racing, 
 rally racing, truck racing, garbage truck racing, and regular rallies. The career mode is where 
 you'll head first, and with over 100 events you'll be there for a while. There are five difficulties, 
 and you'll master each of them quickly, and soon enough you'll be on the Pro setting, but that 
 one still leaves a perfect challenge. After you beat the career mode you can head to World Champ 
 mode, and do long rallies were you have to repair damage. Just now that the multiplayer kinda sucks, 
 as you race 100 people (good luck filling a room) but its only time trials and you never see other 
 people, so you might just play for achievments.
  The damage model is probably the best thing in the game. Every single scratch is shown and its 
 amazing. Flipping your 800+ horsepower car while in helmet cam view is a real treat.
  In the end if you like racing games go out and buy this game now. A+ Value. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: polsci1503
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 22, 2007 3:09 pm PT
Review:  Codemasters has been making quality rally racing games for years and having been a fan of Colin 
 McRae Rally 3 in particular, I was looking forward to their latest installment in the series. I 
 can't say I'm a fan of the sport since I don't follow it at all, but I love rally racing games 
 because they throw something at you that other racing games like PGR, Test Drive, Need for Speed 
 and GT don't... dirt, mud, gravel, snow, beat up tarmac and the kind of courses you don't see normally. 
 It makes it all alot of fun.
  
  DiRt itself is a major step forward for Codemasters. Gone are the days of "pivoting". In the older 
 games there seemed to be a central point on the car - sort of a pivot point. It almost felt as 
 though the geography was coming towards you and the car was rolling across it - just like those 
 old car games where the scenery was on a conveyor belt and your car was static, you were just steering 
 over a painted surface. Not any more. Now the cars control as they should and the racing feels 
 more real. 
  
  In fact, this is DiRT's strongest point... in hill climbs and while descending you really feel 
 the height and the control it takes to keep yourself on the road. This makes the racing more intense 
 and less random - slip up and you're out of control... focus and you'll be amazed at how well you're 
 racing. Of course all the vehicles control differently and you have a choice of racing anything 
 from souped up pickup trucks, to dune buggys, Big Rigs, normal rally cars of all different sorts, 
 to these strange huge box shaped trucks that can easily roll over if you're not careful. The amount 
 of variety is great.
  
  You'll spend most of your time in career mode advancing through 11 levels of a pyramid. You will 
 rewarded by different achievements as you progress and I was able to unlock 725 points by playing 
 through career mode alone. There are also a Championship and a Rally World mode where you can get 
 a few more points. 
  
  The difficulty is Easy. At the outset of each race you can choose between various difficulty options 
 and never are you forced to race the harder options to get achievements - you can get all of them 
 just by racing on medium. You will get more money the higher the difficulty which can make buying 
 cars alot easier, along with the various graphics packs you can get for each car (some of those 
 are very cool) . 
  
  Finally, DiRT makes two important contributions to the video game world. The first is the graphics. 
 As you may have heard, this game looks sweeeettt. Try not to stare at the countryside as it goes 
 by though, or you'll end up smacking into a tree - best to watch as someone else plays. 
  
  The second is one of the best menu systems I've seen in a game (along with some of the best menu 
 music) . Hopefully others will pick up on this, although nobody seemed to steal the awesome menu 
 system in Riddick, so maybe they won't. In any event, the menu is slick, interesting and very well 
 done.
  
  All in all, Codemasters did a superior job in giving us DiRT. Next time I'd like to see some more 
 variety in the tracks (in particular the closed course dirt tracks) but that is the only complaint 
 I could really think of. Given that this title will likely drop in price soon to around the $30 
 level, if you like racing you should definitely pick this one up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thoma7500
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 20, 2007 6:22 am PT
Review:  colin mcrae dirt is the latest colin mcrae and one of the new things to come this year is rally 
 cars combined with other motorsports to attracts european and american gamers in one game.
  
  cars
  
  loads of cars in the game that took 40 days to make each of them thats how good 
 the graphics are.
  There is tons of choices like little citroens or subaru imprezas to big rigs the game has loads 
 of choices that it will suit you in some way.
  
  career
  fantastic theres a triangle of events to go through and there is variation in all of them so expect 
 to keep playing through the night.
  
  Sadly though the game has some slight problems it may have top class graphics but the framerate 
 is very poor it drops all the time and it makes your eyes bleed combined with the graphics its 
 a shame because the gae looks so good but at times you can see they cheated with the lightning 
 effects and other things.
  
  MULTIPLAYER
  another blow is the MP due to no bumper to bumper racing this was a poor not to include it in there 
 next gen colin mcrae but at least there is a multiplaer.
  
  verdict
  overall its a great game with proper next gen graphics and a fantastic career that is a must buy 
 for rally fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jamesallenyz431
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 10, 2007 11:41 am PT
Review:  Dirt is ahead of the pack when it comes to Rally and Offroad racing. Featuring six forms of racing 
 from super fast rally cars to huge semi trucks.
  
  I'm new to the franchise, so I dont know how well this game stacks up to the previous installments, 
 but I'm impressed with this one. The first thing i noticed when I was playing was the rediculous 
 amount of detail. They didnt miss a thing from the driver reaching down to shift, to small pine 
 trees bending over as i ran them over. If for graphics alone this game would be a 10. 
  
  The second thing i noticed was how will the game felt playing. I've never raced Rally or CORR, 
 but this game felt very reallistic to me. The varity of racing surfaces actually made a difference 
 with traction and handling. Keeping momentium in turns was hard, but not so hard that it wasnt 
 fun to learn. Using the right amount of braking and acceleration to maintain traction was also 
 a fun learning experience. The physics in this game I'd give a 10 also.
  
  The third and first negative thing I noticed was lack of CORR, Crossover, and RallyCross tracks. 
 I was really bummed that there are only 4 CORR tracks, and 2 of which are the same excect one straight 
 away is different. The CORR racing in this game was the selling point for me and discovering only 
 4 tracks was a dissapointment. Rally on the other hand has a good number of tracks and they are 
 all challenging.
  
  Lack of multiplayer was another disapointment even thou to me it wasnt a huge deal at first, because 
 there is so many races to do in career mode and championship mode. Even after I completed those, 
 I returned to career mode and re-raced the CORR races to earn enough money to buy all the cars 
 and get my 1000 mile achivement.
  
  Final word : Any fan of racing games should check this game out!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrjam0
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 2, 2007 9:24 am PT
Review:  I'm not a big racing sim fan, but a do appreciate one when i see one. DIRT, the off road racing 
 game attempts to appeal a little more towards the arcade fans, but for those arcade racers who 
 made the mistake of picking up this game, were soon to find out how DIRT fails in that attempt. 
 With that said, lets jump into the review. In career mode, you start off at the bottom of a pyramid 
 where you climb levels called Tiers. Immediately this game would turn away non-sim racers as for 
 the first half of career mode you spend most of your time racing through trial runs, which makes 
 the pacing of the game extremely slow and very boring. During the trails, you co-pilot Chris will 
 navigate you through the course. At first, most first time rally racers wont have a clue what he's 
 saying. But as you progress through the game (provided that you pay attention) you'll begin to 
 pick up on phrases such as, 60 left 4 . The game does give you the option of selecting what difficulty 
 you want to race on. So if you dont want to have to suffer through the same course multiple times, 
 you can just dumb down the difficulty to Amateur or lower, and cake walk through the race. They 
 also throw in another mode called Cross-over which is basically s trial run, but one other car 
 is racing you on a different track occasionally crossing over yours. As you make your way up the 
 pyramid, you'll earn money if you make a podium position. With that money, you'll buy certain cars 
 in each series. The hard core will go ahead and buy every single car. The casual will just rack 
 up enough money so that they can buy the best in the series. The graphics are quite stunning, as 
 you can see the lighting reflect off the road and cars, and how beat up they look after you've 
 smacked it around a few times. In multiple events the damage on the car carry over to the next 
 race, and about every other course you complete, you'll be given the option of fixing damaged parts. 
 The cars control as you would expect from a racing sim. It's not just pick up and play. But once 
 you do get used to the controls, you'll become a pro, or in my case, pro am.
  One particular problem i had with this game was the lacking in the variety of courses during the 
 races. It seemed to me that more emphasis was put more into the trail runs, rather than the actual 
 races. One course in particular, featured in the opening cinematic, would have been perfect to 
 race on. But instead, its only available in Hill Climb. Another is the inability to cut corners. 
 Call me cheap if you want, but sometimes in the slightest cut you take, the game will restart your 
 car, often setting back a few positions, others you might cut a huge corner, but the game sets 
 no punishment. Once you're half way up the pyramid, actual races do become more frequent all the 
 way up to the top. Once you're done with career mode, if you're a casual/arcade racer, shut off 
 the game, and move on to another, because in Championship mode, there are practically nothing but 
 trials, and cross overs. This is a big let down as this game does feature some good races. Multiplayer 
 mode is only available in system link and X Box Live. That's another big let down because there 
 is no excuse for a racing game not to include split screen. All in all, DIRT is a game strictly 
 for the rally fans. Its a good game. it controls well, and looks good too. But it's lacking some 
 things that make a racing game fun, actual races and split screen multiplayer. Now if you would 
 excuse me, I'm going to turn in my DIRT and buy another game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: seventy5cent832
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 29, 2007 10:02 pm PT
Review:  A great rally racing game, the only problem is that the cars feel a little floaty, but that is 
 minor. Has a not to long not to short single player. the physics are amazing, Graphics are almost 
 perfect. The sequel to rallysport challenge 2 on xbox. Online is fun but i've only played it briefly, 
 the environments are perfect, the in car view is the best of any game, it gives you a feel that 
 you are really there. Amazing overall graphics, I'd give it a ten in graphics. Not that many cars, 
 and no offline multiplayer are the bad. Sound
  is good but obviously not the most exciting. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hmproductions
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 23, 2007 9:13 pm PT
Review:  For the next generation, Codemasters definitely knew what they wanted for their continuation of 
 the the Colin McRae series. The problem with this is, it shows in the gameplay. The game is very 
 straight forward, and at times this makes the game very easy. The cars have a floaty feel do them 
 (although there is a totally different feel between a RWD and AWD car) , and you don't always feel 
 in total control, but thats half the fun of the game. In it's own way, this is sort of a Geometry 
 Wars, because you're constantly saying to yourself, How insane am I, before I hit the brake and 
 slow down? And the tracks are designed with this thinking in mind. You'll be racing through some 
 narrow spots, where it seems like trees and rocks aren't just placed from an artistic standpoint, 
 but also a gameplay stanpoint. While in other spots you'll race through wide open stretches, followed 
 by a sharp turn. With all of this being said, sadly, the game also suffers from a relatively poor 
 framerate. Especially in the narrow roads, the framerate turns into a slideshow, and usually hangs 
 in the teens region. The online is also a major letdown, with it not letting you race on the same 
 track as other people (although you can play up to 99 people at once.)
  All in all, DiRT is an extremely enjoyable racer, and any casual racing fan should check it out 
 because of the easier difficulty. While some hardcore racing people might find it easier than say 
 Forza, that shouldn't deter anyone from buying this overall great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: raza3
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 22, 2007 9:48 am PT
Review:  June 8, 2007 - The first time you slip DiRT into your Xbox 360, you may just crap your pants. The 
 environments are lush, the lighting superb and the damage modeling incredible. DiRT is gorgeous. 
 And the spectacular visuals are matched by the most impressive user interface to ever bless a console. 
 Once the rush of the inspired visuals and eye-popping menus passes, you'll find a very solid rally 
 racer. Though it's not the best of the Colin McRae series, DiRT is perhaps the most accessible. 
 It's not perfect, but it's damned pretty -- and a whole lot of fun.
  
  Great rally racers find a way to mix sim aspects with an arcade spirit. The sport, by its nature, 
 features a lot of power sliding around narrow corners in rustic settings, creating a sense that 
 you're somehow defying the laws of physics. But that's true rally racing. DiRT does a great job 
 of offering both an arcade experience (for those who are faint of heart) and a hardcore challenge 
 (for those with balls of stone) . The default difficulty keeps the challenge fairly lax. Crank up 
 the difficulty setting and suddenly every fast turn becomes risky and any crash can prove fatal. 
 Few games offer two different sets of experiences, but DiRT does it better than most. So whether 
 you are just a casual racing fan or a Colin McRae nut, you can have fun racing across the beautiful 
 wilderness vistas of DiRT.
  
  The bulk of the single-player experience is placed in the career mode -- an epic pyramid of increasingly 
 difficult racing challenges. Six different rally events are spread across the career mode: Rally, 
 Crossover, Rallycross, Rally Raid, CORR and Hill Climb. These are equally distributed throughout 
 career, meaning that those who love time-trial rally racing will find considerably fewer of these 
 events than in previous CM games. While that might be reason to complain, the multi-car races fit 
 perfectly into the grittier attitude of DiRT. The healthy variety of race types keeps the career 
 mode interesting from the bottom of the event pyramid up to the top. The framerate sometimes suffers 
 with six-to-ten cars trading paint on a dirt track, but it's a worthwhile trade-off for some of 
 the exhilarating moments that come from these events. On the Croft race track in the UK, there 
 are tires bordering most of the track. Within 30 seconds of the start of a race, tires are flying 
 everywhere. It's hilarious fun. And while sim fans may feel their stomachs churning a bit at the 
 thought of flying rubber in a serious race, it's just one of those arcade touches that adds some 
 extra flair to DiRT. The good news is that the AI of your competitors just matches the difficulty 
 setting. If you choose Clubman -- meant for those who can't tell the brake from the clutch -- you'll 
 see the AI cars understeer through turns or even spin out. Select Pro and competitors make cleaner 
 lines and are fierce to the finish.
  
  Brilliant drivers have the bragging rights for driving clean races and competing to top the World 
 Record on any track. But they may also miss out on one of DiRT's greatest achievements: damage 
 modeling. DiRT's damage can be as dramatic (and thrilling) as Burnout. You'll see some amazing 
 destruction if you understeer on corners and smack into a tree or misjudge the racing lane and 
 drive into a median. These awesome crashes shatter windshields, rip off doors and can break your 
 car nearly in two. I've seen my carburetor fly out of my car and had my spoiler spin off after 
 a wreck. In many respects, the damage to cars is far more detailed and amazing than the actual 
 racing. The beauty of wiping out in DiRT. All that damage isn't just for show. DiRT has a detailed 
 damage system that covers nine different areas of the car -- from the engine to the gearbox to 
 the bodywork. Fully wrecking any of these will cause terminal damage and end your race. But reduce 
 any area to below 25% and your car will seriously suffer. Wreck the cooling system and slowly your 
 engine will overheat. This becomes particularly important in later events where you need to run 
 two and three rally races. As the damage mounts, the threat of your car's demise makes every scrape 
 against a fence that much more stressful.
  
  I should mention that the damage modeling isn't limited to the cars. You will ravage your ride, 
 but also tear up the environment. Hit a wood fence and it splinters. Drive through a yield sign 
 and it may get stuck in your hood. Brush against a small tree and the braches bend against your 
 car. For a true visual and visceral treat, switch to the helmet-cam view. This camera mode gives 
 you a complete view of the fully-rendered dashboard with the ability to turn your head and survey 
 your surroundings. You can watch your navigator read from his notes or watch as your door falls 
 off. Best camera ever? Oh yes.
  For those with more racing experience, there are in-depth tuning options. These can make a big 
 difference, particularly if you pay attention to the terrain you're going to be racing on. If you 
 are inexperienced in this area, fear not. Every tuning option has a help menu with narration from 
 dirt bike phenom and rally racing newcomer Travis Pastrana. In fact, Pastrana is featured heavily 
 in all the menus, explaining race modes and even detailing the benefits and drawbacks of every 
 single car in DiRT. For all of DiRT's excellence, there are several things that do hold it back 
 from true greatness (and keep it from being the best of the Colin McRae series) . It's easy to get 
 sucked in by the visuals and presentation, which are truly among the best on Xbox 360, but looking 
 past that, some of the flaws show strongly. The cars in DiRT -- be it a Lancer Evo or a garbage 
 truck -- turn on a central pivot. Even bicycles don't turn on a central pivot. With realistic racers 
 such as Forza 2 on the market, the central pivot feels especially unnatural. On a whole, the cars 
 don't feel grounded. Of course they are going to slip and slide, but it often feels like you're 
 driving on a cloud rather than a dirt road. There's no sense of weight to the cars. Sure, it's 
 still cool to swing the backend of your car as you slide through a corner, but you don't really 
 feel the weight shift. DiRT does so much right, it's a shame that Codemasters couldn't nail the 
 final touches on such important aspects of a racer. Again, that doesn't mean it isn't incredibly 
 fun, but for a next-gen racer it's a bit disappointing not to have the complete package.
  
  
  This is why my garbage is never picked up on Mondays. The biggest letdown, however, is the multiplayer. 
 Up to 100 gamers can race together online -- sort of. See, there are no options to race with multiple 
 cars on the track. Instead, you run either a rally race or a hill climb at the same time as everyone 
 else. You never see another car (or anyone else's replay) , and I had considerable issues getting 
 voice chat to work with others online. Still, this could have been a decent online alternative 
 if Codemasters hadn't completely dropped the ball on the set-up.
  
  When you enter a room, you can vote for one of seven tracks -- each with one specific car that 
 everyone must race. The problem is that when setting up your own race, you can't choose which tracks 
 or cars are voted on. It's always random. And by the same token, you can't search for a race with 
 a specific track or with type of car. And you can't stop the countdown clock. So if you start a 
 room and no one joins in one minute, you will load a solo race. And if everyone wants to take a 
 pee break after the end of a race, they'll have to relieve themselves in less than 60 seconds or 
 the next race will start without them.
  
  Racing games offer online multiplayer with at least six cars. That's pretty much standard nowadays. 
 DiRT delivers only narrowly. It's unlikely many will bother with the multiplayer after the first 
 few races. Fortunately, the single-player is deep enough that it easily makes DiRT worth every 
 penny of its $60 cover charge.
  It's certainly a beauty, but DiRT isn't the perfect racer.
  
  Closing Comments
  DiRT is one of the coolest racing games I have ever laid my hands on. Though 
 the framerate is sometimes suspect, there's never been a racing game with this much detail. When 
 you can count every leaf on every piece of brush across a three mile track, that's a major graphical 
 accomplishment. If only every aspect of DiRT matched the graphics and presentation, it would be 
 among the top racers on Xbox 360. DiRT still hasn't fixed Colin McRae's longtime use of a central 
 pivot for turning and the racing feels floaty at times. DiRT isn't quite as good as some previous 
 installments in the Colin McRae racing series, but it's certainly a worthy addition to the library. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ivory_soul
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 19, 2007 10:09 am PT
Review:  The Good: Out of this world graphics and audio, great car handling, slick menus, lots of races 
 and tracks, great physics and damage system
  
  The Bad: Load times could be shorter, cars are a bit floaty, can't create any type of character, 
 or car customization
  
  After playing the demo I was totally stoked for this game. The graphics are just out of this world 
 because they look so real. When you're sitting in the driver's seat your gloves look real and so 
 does the leather seats and dashboard, you're rear view mirror reflects perfectly, the glass on 
 the windows break in real time and it just looks so amazing. The cars handle great here, despite 
 a floaty feel to them, but that's not necessarily a bad thing either. There are tons of races to 
 do and lots of tracks to race on. The physics in this game are spot on and they don't miss a beat. 
 The game has a damage system so you can check to see what you've done to your car when you pause 
 it and it affects how the car handles as well. The menus are really slick as well since they float 
 and spin are you select things and while the game loads it shows you your stats. There's nothing 
 more than that to say since it's just a straight racer. It's a sim though so Burnout and Need for 
 Speed fans should stay away and go for Sega Rally Revo instead. The only issues I found were the 
 load times can be a bit long, and there are only 46 cars in the game which isn't much for a racer. 
 Despite all this you'll have a blast with DiRT and won't put it down anytime soon. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: raj_scot
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 18, 2007 1:53 pm PT
Review:  DiRT still does the same man vs. clock thing McRae has always done. It continues to place drivers 
 on unpaved tracks that feel too skinny for a bike never mind a 450bhp rally car and it certainly 
 hasn't let up with the challange pace that Colin McRae game are well known for.
  
  For the first time, the series allows drivers to start certain events simultaneously alongside 
 other vehicles. And for fans this a great new adition. DiRT does not lack variety. The game delivers 
 a wide variety of terrain (dirt, rocks, desert dust, tarmac, and more -- all of which feel distinct, 
 too) and an even wider variety of disciplines, including hill climbs, crossovers, and rally raids. 
 Some formats, such as the adrenaline-pumping crossovers, work better than others, but the versatility 
 is appreciated. Same goes for DiRT's huge lineup of vehicles. The game's built-for-rallying buggies 
 and pimped-up vehicles but they have thrown in some pimped-up 4x4 off-roaders and trucks and even 
 a big rig. After finnishing and collecting vehicles you will find yourself using 1 car the lancia 
 delta once you try this car you will see why.
  
  Unfortunately, the obvious spot where head-to-head driving would seem to make the most sense -- 
 during online multiplayer sessions -- is the one spot that's not supported. Ouch. Moreover, the 
 location of multiplayer events is purely random, and the communication between competitors is ridiculously 
 limited. Can you say afterthought ? Slightly flawed in some spots Career mode, for example, is 
 a pyramid of increasingly challenging events rather than a glimpse into a racer's life. DiRT is 
 a big, beautiful game that goes places previous McRaes have not. It's quite simply one of the finest 
 driving-centric titles to hit the 360 world but the best. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: St_Stu
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 16, 2007 1:11 pm PT
Review:  To be honest I didn't get to the super mega car classes, but from what I played... I think like 
 6 hours or something, Its safe for me to say that in some cases I was like yay this game is great 
 and in some other cases I was like aww man not another one of these races The game is very pretty, 
 the car models likewise. You have many types of races with many types of different vehicles, like 
 rally cars, buggies, pick ups, and even riggs. But the rigg races could get boring cause you're 
 not going that fast and some of the rally races could repetetive cause you'll be thinking to yourself 
 didn't I do this race already... WITH THE SAME CAR Yeah thats right you use alot of the same cars 
 for the races. you do however get more choices as you commence in the game, but you'll always end 
 up choosing the best car , if you bought it that. Which isn; t a bad thing as you race dependning 
 on how hard you choose the race to be like in PGR you get money and with that money you buy different 
 cars so thats basically it race win cash buy cars advance a class, repeat... Oh and I should mention 
 that the buggy races are super awesome... this is a rent'er 
::::::

::::::
UserName: floridajoe03
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 13, 2007 12:58 pm PT
Review:  If your like me in any way, your very new to racing games. I plopped this baby into my system and 
 i found it an instant favorite. I started out playing the campaign mode, in which you move up from 
 tier to tier trying to get to the top of the racing pyramid. Along your way to the top, you pick 
 up money. Which means new cars and paint jobs. I cant really explain how much fun this game is 
 because i only played the first hour of it. So i will fill the rest of this review up with  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dewAMP88
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 12, 2007 11:48 am PT
Review:  This game seems to have it all.
  *Stunning visual effects
  *Easy game play
  *Audio is quite impressive
  *Turnover value is full bore
  *Online features for multiplayer 
 is exciting
  
  I don't have the steering wheel/foot pedals as of yet (getting it though for NASCAR 08 as well) , 
 but the handling of the vehicles is still smooth as silk!
  I imagine the wheel will add even greater stability.
  
  There are many different levels of 
 achievement in DiRT which allow you to advance your career as a Robby Gordon DRIVE ANYTHING, ANYWHERE 
 type of driver. (Not that I am a fan of RG) .
  
  Only one thing that stood out as a negative for this game, and I could be wrong, is there was no 
 two player simultaneous play (we couldn't figure a way to compete against a guest (split screen 
 or otherwise) . We'll see.
  
  Any way, I suggest picking this game up! You will NOT be disappointed in the least.
  
  Hours 
 upon hours of fun in the DiRT! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: about_blank
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 5, 2007 6:03 pm PT
Review:  Colin McCrae Rally video games have never really made a big hype in the U. S. Rally racing has always 
 really been a European made sport. Codemasters overhalled the game to meet the harts of American 
 players like you. DIRT has an amazing aray of vehicles and events. You find yourself racing little 
 one-seating speedsters up mountain sides, where your just one mistake from possible death, or haulin' 
 around corners in a Big Rig, barley making it around the deserty track. No matter which, the visuals 
 are some of the most impressive I've seen in a racing game. The cockpit view, whick many will argue 
 is just eye-candy, is one of the most impressive views of the game. After you roll for the first 
 time, or clip the side of a tree in your 4WD Subaru, the visual and audio effect will leave you 
 wanting more. Not only are the crashes fantastic, just plain driving is awesome. Even though there 
 is no active weather effects, such as rain or snow, you can see dirt build up on the windshield, 
 getting dirtier and dirtier. dirtier is a weird word, not sure if thats even how to spell it, but 
 i digress. You can even here the gravel hiting the floor of the car. I would really get thes 
::::::

::::::
UserName: reign_six6six
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 5, 2007 1:52 am PT
Review:  Dirt is a pretty solid game.. The only thing I dont like is you cant play two players. But the 
 single player game is pretty cool. The graphics are amazing. When your car hits a bush the bush 
 actually gets pushed down and goes under the car instead of the car going rite through it. The 
 game play is pretty good to. It handles more like a simulation of driving in the dirt and some 
 roads. It seems like they wanted to keep everything as realistic as possible which in my opinion 
 is good. I dont really care for unrealistic driving games. You can earn money and buy new cars 
 and all that. You cant really customize them but you get a good bit to pick from. At first you 
 dont but as you play you get em. You know how it goes. But yeah Id say this game is definitely 
 worth playing and for people who like driving games its a nice addition to the collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Haz_4x4
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 28, 2007 6:31 am PT
Review:  Like i said R. I. P to colin he was a fantastic rally driver
  
  To the game itself i love car games and i love rally games as much as cars
  i do think the game 
 is fantastic the graphics are brilliant much crisper and better than forza the gamplay however 
 is good but i dont really get a feel for the car it feels like cars are hovering however this does 
 not put me off the game as it can be very fun driving the cars
  
  the cars themselves have a brilliant choice with 40 cars.
  
  the actual rally career is a bit 
 short but very good you get to use every car and their are many different types of races i just 
 wish their were more front wheel drive races! the career is short but does keep me satisfied and 
 the online is not bad either all in all a very good game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shub-Niggurath
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 25, 2007 8:14 am PT
Review:  Welcome to DiRT! This game is an excellent piece of Rally and off-road racing work from the geniuses 
 at Codemasters. For those of you who had no interest in Rallycross Racing until Travis Pastrana 
 threw his hat in the ring then you probably dont remember a rally star named Colin McRae. He was 
 to Rallycross what Jeff Gordon is to NASCAR or what Michael Schumacher was to Formula 1. In keeping 
 with his superstar legacy the good people at Codemasters have been showering him with praise 
 in the form of a slew of very well made, fun to play Rallycross games. This is another one. Of 
 course, this game still features McRae but now he usually comes in second to mister Pastrana.
 
  
  Barring the celebrity power behind this game we shall look first at the graphics. This game looks 
 great. The tracks and surrounding environments are incredible, highly detailed, and the Rallycross 
 races are speckled with enthusiastic spectators. The cars look incredible and dirty up quite nicely, 
 even leaving splattered windshields with clear paths cut by the wiper blades. This leads to a slight 
 inaccuracy. The blades leave their path of clean even when theyre not there to do it. This is 
 a lead-in to another graphical high point. The cars destruction looks spectacular. The vehicles 
 break apart nicely, shattering glass, and little superfluous bits of plastic and metal cascade 
 around the wreck. However, this hardcore attention to detail doesnt come free. This games frame-rate 
 gets hurt. Occasionally during large, multi-car events the frame rate starts chugging. It gets 
 particularly bad when during events like Raid or the Corr 4 truck series when everyone starts beatin 
 and bangin the frame-rate goes south, really hard and really fast. Even things like the solo 
 rally runs or crossover events can stutter quite a bit. This can cause major problems because in 
 the world of Rallycross split second timing can mean the difference between 1st place and a DNF.
 
  
  The game consists of a mish mash of 6 different racing series. This spread covers the world of 
 dirt based racing quite well. It has everything from the Rallycross series to the Lucas Oil buggies 
 and Corr 4 truck series. Each of the vehicle types for these racing disciplines has its own unique 
 handling characteristics. The larger vehicles have major suspension travel which leads to mushy 
 handling with rocking back and forth and easy roll-overs for which you have to be cautious. The 
 rally cars are very quick, tight handling cars with exceptional handling and great response. All 
 of this lends a nice splash of color and personality to the game.
  
  The handling physics by themselves are noteworthy at the least. Depending on your chosen difficulty 
 level the game displays more and more sim-based handling characteristics. At higher difficulty 
 levels the damage to your suspension and steering systems becomes more evident, playing havoc with 
 your ability to keep it on the road. Even the physics themselves get more and more sim-based as 
 you amp up the difficulty. This all helps to lend another unique touch to this game that makes 
 it enjoyable.
  
  The career menu interface is straightforward, very simple, and (at times) almost ingenious. The 
 structure is simple; a tiered pyramid, 11 rows high, each race worth points, these points unlock 
 new races, and the more you score, the more you unlock. Theres no obnoxious class selection menu, 
 no odd maps of the world which you have to peruse, just a straight forward racer with a lot to 
 enjoy. They do even more to simplify the career interface. When you enter a race, regardless of 
 racing discipline, You are taken to the difficulty selection (no loading screen) and then to the 
 car selection menu (also no loading) . If you have to buy a new car it is right there to be selected 
 and purchased. There are no loading screens until youve chosen to start the race. This all helps 
 to streamline the BS that has become almost commonplace in most modern day racing games.
  
  I dont have any real reason to mess around with the online stuff so I didnt. However, if youre 
 connected when you start playing the game will automatically upload your race times to the global 
 database of race times. Its a nice feature. Thats the extent of my online experience with this 
 game.
  
  All in all this is another undeniably solid from the Rallycross lunatics over at Codemasters and, 
 regardless of framerate, it is truly gorgeous. However, what will truly keep you coming back is 
 that when all the glitz and glamour fall off this game, like so many pieces of bodywork from your 
 mutilated rally car, this game is truly enjoyable. The simple career interface options and the 
 ease of use, coupled with spectacular physics and multiple racing disciplines, make this game something 
 not only for Rallycross fans but for anyone looking for a truly solid racer they can use to while 
 away a few hours. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HRHParkerJones
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 13, 2007 8:01 pm PT
Review:  Dirt rocks! rally enthusiasts will rejoice at the graphics and game play - this is a must have 
 rally racer.
  
  i've played pgr from the first days - even the past pc racers with the clunky graphics that we 
 all still loved - nothing prepares you for Dirt - the titles, the menus - the menus even have you 
 watering to get in and get muddy.
  
  not only does this game floor on the graphics side of things - but the gameplay itself feels as 
 if you're in the car - and add to that the great view points from within the cars - and you really 
 are there! yay!
  
  Dirt's a must have racer for anyone who follows the sport of rallying - this sets the bar another 
 couple of notches - let's see what sega does with their upcoming title. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yomamathe4th
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 13, 2007 2:47 pm PT
Review:  To bad thats a very bad thing in this game, so ill start off there :P. Ok the way the controls 
 are made you feel like you are floating above the ground instead of on it. Another thing is that 
 the cars just don't feel like cars and don't get me started about the multiplayer. On the good 
 side the tracks are nicely designed and the graphics are beautiful the guy who is always talking 
 isn't to anoying. Also the main menu is built very nice but really the only good thing in this 
 game is the campain which will last you about 19 hours. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigb89
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 28, 2007 10:56 am PT
Review:  Gameplay
  
  The single player game plays out through 3 modes. Career, Championship, and Rally World, which 
 is a single race set up.
  
  The Career mode is set up in a stylized pyramid that has 11 tiers , with the bottom tier having 
 11 different events. Each event consists of one or more race events of a single type requiring 
 a specific type of car. The player earns up to 10 points for their placing in all the races within 
 the event. Most events require a specific number of points within a specific tier to unlock, and 
 thus as the player earns points, more of the pyramid becomes unlocked, moving up to the Champion 
 of Champions event at the very top. By winning races and earning money the player is able to purchase 
 cars and liveries (skins) for the cars. In total there are 46 different cars and 186 liveries. 
 The amount of money earned is based on the difficulty level picked by the player when selecting 
 the event; higher difficulty levels have more challenging AI opponents and more realistic damage 
 effects. Completed events can be reraced at any time, though unless challenged at a higher difficulty 
 level than first raced it, the player will earn significantly less money than when they first raced 
 it. In Rally events with multiple races, the player has the opportunity to repair damage between 
 races, but is only allotted 60 minutes of damage repair at each point based on time estimates to 
 fix each component of the car.
  
  Championship mode offers up a series of races in which the player's combined time throughout each 
 stage is cumulative.
  
  Multiplayer allows the player to race up to 99 other players in rally races through solo competition, 
 as there are no other cars, ghosts or players present on the track. Fastest time determines who 
 wins.
  
  Release
  
  DiRT was released on June 15, 2007 in Europe and on June 19, 2007 in North America for the Xbox 
 360 and PC. The PS3 version is expected to be released on September 11, 2007.
  
  Critical response
  
  DiRT has received generally positive reviews, IGN UK and US rewarding 
 it a 9.0 and 8.4, respectively. It has also received 9.0 from Official Xbox Magazine, 8.3 from 
 Gamespot, and 8 from Edge. It has been confirmed by Codemasters that 500,000 copies have been sold 
 in the first week.
  
  Demo
  
  A playable game demo was released on Xbox Live Marketplace and on the PlayStation Network on May 
 24, 2007. [1] The demo for PC was released on the same date. The demo contains 3 tracks and 3 race 
 types to try out: 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mikey_PJ
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 26, 2007 11:00 pm PT
Review:  The bad spelling in the games' title tells you right away that this will be a hardcore game. Nevertheless 
 the game does live up to its grade two mistake and delivers and extreme hardcore racing game with 
 amazing graphics, great sound, and controls that suite the game to perfection.
  
  No person with an XBOX 360, and certainly no racing game fan with an XBOX 360 should be caught 
 without DiRT. It is an exceptional game, with absolutely stunning graphics. Next Gen has been used 
 to its fullest to allow gamers to experience a highly detailed and realistic virtual world. Great 
 little things like flying dust and brilliant car damage add an extra hint of excellence to what 
 would anyway be amazing. Also basic things like the cars and surroundings have been made to look 
 like something out of an actual race you watch on TV. The game unfortunately is effected by a horrible 
 frame rate which will often have you throwing the controller at that TV you bought just to play 
 your new XBOX.
  
  The sound follows up well, and matches everything that is happening on the track, from things you've 
 come to expect, like car noises, to newer things like riding through bushes. Damage is also rewrded 
 with all the great destructive sounds you want.
  
  As far as the actual gameplay goes. Everything is also fantastic. The control has been laid out 
 in an easy way for an skill level to get use to in an instant. The game features many licensed 
 cars, some of which have been seen in many other rally games. The game features so many races that 
 you do by yourself. Then theres an online mode, which isn't much of a feature, because its not 
 all that enjoyable.
  
  DiRT delivers very amazingly on a graphical view, and succeeds in all other categories, making 
 it a certain must have racing game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Travis281
Rating: 6
Date: Aug 23, 2007 1:21 pm PT
Review:  After some of us were blown away by Rallisport Challenge 2 for the Xbox, I really expected more 
 out of this newly named extension of the Colin McRae rally racing series. The good thing about 
 this game is that it looks stunning. All the environments are gorgeous even though the frame rate 
 is limited to 30. This does become visually problematic when multiple vehicles are on-screen where 
 you will see the frame rate drop instantly; perhaps this gives you even more incentive to stay 
 ahead of the pack.
  
  Single player is quite extensive and will keep you busy for a while and with multiple levels of 
 difficulty you will easily find your niche to keep you challenged, but still able to progress. 
 The multi-player is the saddest part of this game. Rallisport 2 was able to use every aspect of 
 Xbox Live three years ago and now in a new generation all we get is a surprisingly sub-standard 
 offering. You will never see an opponent on-screen; each racer simply races against the continuously 
 updated times of their opponents. There is also no voice chat whatsoever. All we are given is a 
 set of text messages reminiscent of wi-fi play on the Nintendo DS or the online games on Windows.
 
  
  Overall the game is good, but at this point in time, I expected much more. The life expectancy 
 of this game could have been greatly extended, but a lackluster multi-player was chosen instead 
 and a sorry frame rate was implemented. Better luck next time and maybe we'll get a better Rally 
 game sometime in the future. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cashplaya_2009
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 22, 2007 4:03 pm PT
Review:  When I first saw this game I thought it would just be the 360's version of Motorstorm but it proved 
 to be much better and showed much more polish. The game is very realistic so anyone looking for 
 an extremely easy game elsewhere however the game is still appealling to the casual gamer. As you 
 can probably tell from the screenshots visually this game is above and beyond all the competition. 
 Especially when watching yourself go through the track in your replays you will get a sense yeah 
 I really did that or wow I really wouldnt have survived that crash. While loads are a little on 
 the long side the statistics that scroll by during that time help time flow... a really smart thing 
 because I'm always waiting to see if I've improved or made my scores higher. Another high point 
 outside of its amazing gameplay is the extremely slick game menu which even has voice-overs by 
 Travis Pastrana the first guy to do a double back flip on a motor-bike. This team has obviously 
 put a great amount of work into this title and I'd love to see where they go with this excellent 
 ughh... rally... racer... I guess even though there supposedly moving away from that theme but otherwise 
 a great game and a must buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wardnaessens
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 19, 2007 4:15 am PT
Review:  you really feel the speed, and it is sometimes hard to keep your car levelled if you have bumps 
 on the road, so not very advised to use a steering wheel because it is really, really hard to keep 
 your car on the road in chicanes. The menu is really fast, and the loading times are somewhat average. 
 A very good game, it was worth to wait for the new colin mcrae. I dont know if it competes with 
 the realistic driving of forza 2, but if you're a more of a fan for arcade, then i would advise 
 this game, because it really gives you the feeling you are going really fast througth the corners 
 (which feels as if it is not possible) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xXxDARKNIGHTxXx
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 15, 2007 6:29 pm PT
Review:  I rented this game it is fun, fast and easy to get Achivments not a buy but a reantal yes Great 
 game tho i like the way all of the tracks and the cars and if u just bought a 360 u must rent or 
 buy this game this is a must play for the achivments i just rented it just to c how good it is 
 and i have to say that dam i was impressed i thought it would be like Motorstorm which sucked but 
 this one was really good so yea a MUST PLAY GAME in my case but if u play this u have 2 have the 
 love for raceing games if u hate the mud, dirt, sand then ger Forza Motorsport 2 this game is for 
 people with the love of dirt trak racing and love and terrain the game throws at them 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tbs76
Rating: 8.8
Date: Aug 12, 2007 1:58 pm PT
Review:  I have always been a fan of the Colin McRae games as they truely are a different breed so to speak. 
 These games border on more realism than most 60 fare but are still easy to pick up by the average 
 gamer and take time to master. I found the latest itteration, aptly named Dirt to be very exciteting, 
 offered plenty of variety in its races (you can even race big rig trucks) had great handling, and 
 the graphics and damage modeling the best I have ever seen so far. This game is an awesome racing 
 game with only one glaring flaw.... no live opponents in multiplayer. You can race on live but only 
 against there time with no actual cars on the track to impeed your times or challenge you outright. 
 Given the nature of this game it is understandable since thats actually how you race in real rally 
 events but it would have been nice to have the option at least. Oh well, its one small flaw for 
 a game that is diffinitely a showcase title and one of the best racing games on the 360 so far. 
 So do yourself a favor and go get this game cause its like nothing else you have played so far 
 and you just might enjoy beating up your vehicle for a change! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: whoisryanmack
Rating: 8.8
Date: Aug 12, 2007 3:15 am PT
Review:  I should get it out of the way that I'm a race fan, and I was really looking forward to the next 
 installment of McRae rally. So, DIRT comes along and looks gorgeous. You pay your 60 dollars, unwrap, 
 pop it in, and have a seat.... and think what is this? The game is beautiful, and all the details 
 are there, right down to crackling turbo exhausts and metallic thunk downshifts. The handling, 
 however, is so very arcadey it almost makes you sick. It's bad enough that hardcore fans might 
 give it up before even making headway in a career. That would be a mistake however. Race after 
 race, you begin to see the method behind the madness. As the cars get faster, and your skill improves, 
 you notice that you're driving almost exactly like a professional might. The arcadey controls are 
 actually making you the driver you need to be in order to compete at this level. The further you 
 get, the more you start to realize that this is a blast. You're flying through forests, drifting 
 multiple linked turns, jumping massive dropoffs... it's great fun in a way you didn't think it would 
 be. This is not to mention the well modeled and numerous tracks, the many different types of racing 
 available, the beautiful replays, perfect sounds, numerous vehicles, the excellent damage modeling.... it's 
 all there. The element that surprises me most is the co-drivers instruction. While you would expect 
 him to be annoying and unhelpful, he's the opposite. He's always right on, and using him to your 
 advantage actually makes you faster. It's a great touch. This is a definite buy for race fans, 
 and for someone looking for a fast paced arcade all the same. Give it a good couple of hours to 
 really show you what it's made of, it will impress. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: metalhead164
Rating: 9.3
Date: Aug 11, 2007 8:04 am PT
Review:  DiRT is a new racing game were you drive on mountains, dirt, and mostely anything except road racing.
 
  
  This game is great, when you play the game you dont want to stop it is not boring at all basiclly 
 the car situation is cool you can drive with go kart type cars and you can even race with semi 
 trucks. The graphics are great and the gameplay is great too! The sound of racing on dirt never 
 gets old. The game acts as a pyramid and you have to climb up to really get with better races and 
 racers. The online play is awesome FINALLY we get to race online not on the road but on gravel, 
 mountains, and my favorite dirt. I would really reccomend getting this other than Forza 2.
  
  And this game has a soundtrack other than some racers! The only bad thing about it is that 
 driving the vehicals takes some getting used to. But other than that this game is uber awesome 
 fun and you should definetly get it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: naztwelve
Rating: 8.6
Date: Aug 11, 2007 4:46 am PT
Review:  This is a solid racer, very refreshing as it is different to others available for the 360. And 
 its a great wake up after so much repetitveness in forza2.
  
  The biggest letdown id say though is the multiplayer side of things, thats why i say its best for 
 a few days rent instead. Unless your the social gamer who takes their time, then sure its definatly 
 worth a buy.
  Multiplayer has minimal interaction with other players, you cant do 8 players against each other 
 (eg hitting each others car racing..) only stage like racing from what ive seen so far...
  There are no longterm multiplayer acheievments so nothing to keep you going, and the statistics 
 for online is poor.
  
  The graphics are amazing, music is good (menu only) , racing feel is speedy especially when racing 
 from bonnet or (if you can see) in car mode. feels a bit slow from 3rd person p. o. v
  
  Single player mode is absoultley great!!! will take some time, but not death like time, so yeah 
 the few days rent instead of a one nighter (ive played about 6 hours on my first night rent tonight 
 and got 220gamer points .. for an estimate)
  
  The game is great, 
::::::

::::::
UserName: X360Gurl
Rating: 9.6
Date: Aug 4, 2007 3:26 am PT
Review:  The main reason i bought DIRT for my 360 was because it's the closest thing i've got to a motocross 
 game. The brilliant extra of Dirt is it's not just rally cars, theres buggys, trucks and lorrys. 
 This combined makes a game not only about racing but about having fun ripping up the course with 
 a lorry you'd see on the motorway. How does it play? Well when i first got it i played it for hours 
 then bought Forza 2, when i went back to DIRT to give it a shot i was like wow, the handling is 
 so much different well sharper really. If i went to PGR 3 after i played Forza 2 it would have 
 been fine because the gameplay is quite similar. After a few races i got it back together and was 
 doing fine.
  
  Graphics? Sharp, excellent in HD. Still great without HD but with they look amazing. The detail 
 inside the car is precise and with each livery you choose theres a different suit that you're driver 
 wears. Good Points? Well the gameplay, graphics and the whole game really, theres just a few problems 
 that could have done with being sorted out however they don't make you not want to buy the game. 
 Also the ammount of cars avalible.
  
  Bad Points? Just a few, loading times and the fact that it's not Colin Mcrae it's Travis Pastrana 
 :S Not sure what happened there. Live could be improved to be honest but it's still playable. Overall 
 Conclusion? If you like racing games or offroad then buy it. However if you're not that at racing 
 games then then the handling could be diffecult to grasp, so rent it if that concerns you. We'll 
 just have to see how Sega Rally meausres up to Dirt. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rick-garza
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 3, 2007 4:21 pm PT
Review:  Ohhh the game is great! Gameplay:
  It has a big replay value to it. The Game Play is very fun. Except when you do those horribly long 
 championship races.. it took me 2 hours to beat the International races. But the career mode is 
 very fun and the online is great.. Except voice communication.. alot of people out there are trash 
 talkers like me.. but you cant talk trash to people on this game while your in first place killing 
 the competition!
  Hmm maybe i should go back and review the online only.. I've only played it six times and all 6 
 times there was no voice communication .
  The Controls are kinda touchy but that makes up for the bumpy roads ahead, or the smooth surface 
 of tarmac ahead, takes time to get used to.
  
  Graphics and Greatness:
  The graphics are Perfect! People say nothing is perfect, this time there wrong! 
  When you break 
 something on the car.. You Literally break it! Like on Some racing games lets say the tire icon 
 pops on red its time to change a tire not this time! When you hit a boulder or something or even 
 a pole the wrong way and your tire flies off its over with! The crash Stability is Awesome, Even 
 tiny pieces of What the hell is that? Comes off your car. And also i love the way Your car gets 
 what i call Real Time Messy .. Let me Explain for the people thats looking to buy this game..
 
  You start off when a very clean vehicle Not even a Scratch.. After a minute of dirt roads you 
 can actually start to notice the more beat up and messy it becomes. Little by little its not like 
 Hey, lets go through the proxy check point and Bam! Your cars dirty.. no it gradually gets dirty 
 by the further you progress. You think a regular TV looks great you should play it in HD.. Its 
 to die for . Especially the breath taking visuals of the Surroundings it is very great!
  
  The Sound:
  The sound of this game is great. Nothing bad to say about it at all.. It sounds great 
 in 2 channel and even 5 channel surround. The cars sound as real as ever.. it does'nt sound like 
 a repeating keyboard hitting higher notes with a car effect.
  
  The Value:
  Its worth the penny you pay and its worth the replay you put into it only if its a lot 
  
  
 Tilt:
  All together to be all honest its the best racing game ever made to me from the visuals the graphics 
 to that pole or tree the demolishes your vehicle.. or even that wet road the hydroplanes you into 
 a rail. it looks perfect and sounds great, fun to play, even if your coming out the pocket to give 
 60 dollars for it its well worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: b0-0n
Rating: 8.6
Date: Aug 1, 2007 1:23 pm PT
Review:  Colin McRae: DiRT is probably not what most of the veterans from the series expected. The maker 
 chose for a more arcade approach but in return promises more variation and graphical power, which 
 should make the series a lot more accessible for gamers who arent specifically looking for time 
 trials and flawless driving. What youll immediately notice are the graphics. Both the cars, with 
 full damage model, tracks and surroundings look really beautiful and whether you look at them from 
 the very good in-car view or from third person view, they remain equally impressive!
  
  Who kicks on cars will especially appreciate the detail and realism of the models. For the first 
 time we also get damage that gets really well shown. Your front window breaks realistically, paint 
 dribbles off as it should, and you can drop any part of your car in a curve like in the very best 
 action movies. Spectacular crashes against a pole or opponent are also never far away. Your car 
 also collects the necessary dust and dirt and those that really go all the way can completely wreck 
 their car.
  
  Your destructive tendencies can also be cooled on the surruondings. Fences, trees and anything 
 that isnt attached to something (sheep?) are willing victim to your bumper. But thats not what 
 gets noticed most in the locations. Especially the light effects and the variation steal the show. 
 Whether youre in the desert, take a turn on the asphalt in Japan, or drive through muddy roads 
 in England, youll constantly get treated to a ton of atmosphere, a lot of detail and an immersion 
 that makes you believe youre sitting in a racing seat. The same level is kept in the menus and 
 loading screens that are simply the most beautiful and vivid weve ever got to see. They not only 
 flow over your screen in beautiful 3D, they also show all kinds of info on your accomplishments 
 and preferences while driving.
  
  While the makers in Forza 2 chose for the framerate, at cost of some visual details, its clear 
 that the graphics were most important. Unfortunately that also means that the frames per second 
 sometimes drop to an unacceptable level, but lets say this isnt so bad seeing the more arcade 
 type of game. Still, we would have preferred it differently!
  
  Something we cant complain at all about are the modes. Contrary to previous version you can show 
 off your skills now in different disciplines like the usual Rally but also rally-cross, hillclimb, 
 CORR, crossover and rally raid. Those that feel a bit lost will get the necessary tips and explanations 
 through the commentary voice of Colin which adds to the invitational feeling of the game. These 
 disciplines are playable in separate races, full events and championships, but the most addictive 
 is clearly the Career mode in which you have to finish a pyramid of events. Winning races delivers 
 you credits and new events, new cars and new outfits for them. The career will keep you occupied 
 for quite some time and nicely introduces you to all new aspects of the game.
  
  You dont have to add DiRT to your collection for the great multiplayer mode. You can play Hillclimb 
 and Rally online, but youll only get to see the times of your opponents and wont meet them on 
 the track which is unfortunate. A lot of options for personalisation arent available either, the 
 choices are limited to voting behaviour in the lobby.
  
  Not counting the disappointing multiplayer, youll have more than enough fun with the racing. The 
 choice between vehicles, tracks, environments and types of missions is very extensive and there 
 are clear differences, but it wont take long before you can guide your car through the tracks 
 like a pro. The difficulty degree, that you can adjust more than enough, affects mostly the AI 
 of your opponents and how fast your car will take damage. Very nice for beginners and lovers of 
 arcade racing, but those that want realism will get a tad left out as the car floats too much and 
 has too little contact with the road. What bothered me personally most was the steering behaviour 
 which often reacts either too much or too little. These little frustrations luckily never spoil 
 the fun you get from the speed of racing, the fascinating tracks and the spectacular duels between 
 you and your opponents. On the gameplay we have nothing but positive things to say, but we did 
 have to adjust our expectations of a Colin McRae title for that first.
  
  We didnt speak about the sound yet, especially because it doesnt manage to reach the level of 
 the graphics. The effects are great, but the soundtrack (which this time doesnt exist out of known 
 songs) is just too unnoticeable. Luckily these tracks never bother. Also too bad is the co-pilot 
 whose voice could have been just that tidbit better to excite us during long, lonely rides. But 
 who knows, maybe these men need to do their thing as emotionless as possible to allow the pilot 
 to concentrate. Colin McRae: DiRT is a more than good game. The decision to make it more varied, 
 with more disciplines, and more accessible, including a more arcade control and driving behaviour, 
 will no doubt sound like music to many gamers ears. The presentation is still a gigantic success, 
 with beautiful surroundings and impressive cars that you can wreck at will. In the end there are 
 only two reasons why you shouldnt get this: the lacking multiplayer and the smaller amount of 
 realism for the professional pilot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pistolero983
Rating: 6.3
Date: Aug 1, 2007 9:26 am PT
Review:  The graphics are good but it does not make up for the lackluster gameplay. There really isn't much 
 difference between the gameplay on the as any other rally game that has come out in the past 5 
 years.. Rally fans will love this game but they don't really have a choice since there arent any 
 other rally titles available right now for the x360.
  
  The most annoying part of the game are the title menus. All the floating shapes in the background 
 are distracting and the angle that the menu is at cannot be set, it is continually moving around. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mmielnik
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jul 31, 2007 5:58 pm PT
Review:  DiRT gives us some amazing visuals. Sometimes I want to crash into a tree just so I can watch the 
 many different ways my car will wreck. One thing that made my jaw drop was when i switched from 
 a paved road to a muddy road, my car was covered in mud when I lost control and spun out. Its little 
 things like that which makes DiRT the best looking racing game ever. DiRT does another great thing 
 by adding my much loved feature from PGR3, the cockpit view puts you in the driver seat. You actually 
 see out from the interior of the car. The frame rate slows down sometimes and it can hurt the experience 
 but it only does this a few times. The game always starts you off in last position and you have 
 to fight your way to first because the other cars do their best to form a wall. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jrodsly
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jul 30, 2007 6:13 pm PT
Review:  Rallying games havent exactly caught on in the US, despite the fact that the Rallisport Challenge 
 series and the Colin Mcrae Rally series have both spit out very solid games. But, with the release 
 of DiRT for the XBOX 360, that's all about to change. Let's detail it's offerings.
  
  Graphics: DiRT is a fantastic looking racing game with a very slick menu presentation, amazing 
 damage modeling and great course detail. The damage modeling specifically lets do all sorts of 
 stuff to your car, like breaking windshields, shearing off bumpers, dinging up the bodywork, and 
 more. The graphics engine also allows for destruction on the course, like breaking tire barriers, 
 destryoing guard rails, and a whole lot more. The one tradeoff: the frame rate. In races with other 
 cars, the frame rate can literally PLUMMET down into single digits. On the rally stages when you're 
 just driving by yourself, this isnt an issue, but the frame rate never go beyond any great numbers.
 
  
  Audio: The soundtrack is pretty good, with some decent tunes to listen to during replays and while 
 driving (if you like that) . however, the menu music is that same repetitive crap you have to listen 
 to EVERY time ur at the game menus. The co-driver who sits next to you on rally stages and rally 
 raids is helpful, but sounds like he's reading a script (even though he technically is) .
  
  Gameplay: This is where DiRT shines. The Career mode, which is basically a huge pyramid of events 
 for you to compete in is VERY deep. With 45 cars and over 160 paint schemes for said cars, this 
 mode has a LOT to offer and will more than likely make you go back and ace the races you didnt 
 ace in order to get the cash you need to buy on the cars and paintschemes. however, it wont take 
 longer than a few days to beat the Career mode on the medium difficulty setting. This, however, 
 is only the beginning of your fun. You can also take part in Rally Championships, as well as hopping 
 on one of the tracks in the game for one race.
  
  In terms of actually driving, there are 6 different racing disciplines: Hillclimb, Rallycross, 
 Rally, CORR (Championship Off Road Racing) , Crossover, and Rally Raid. The cars all handle really 
 well, although they do tend to feel on the floaty side and not exactly realistic.
  
  The biggest disapointment is the XBOX Live play. you CANT race against other cars online. What 
 happens is you are put in a lobby for up to 100 players and you vote on one of 6 combinations of 
 cars and tracks. once it starts, all the players race in a time trial at the same time. it's nice, 
 but I would really have liked to see some wheel to wheel racing online.
  
  Bottom Line: despite some disapointments, DiRT is a great looking racing game that happens to be 
 fun as well. A great racing game in all regards, Colin Mcrae's maiden next gen voyage is a great 
 one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Parker626
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 30, 2007 3:49 pm PT
Review:  I ended up really liking this game. I had Forza for however long before this game came out. I really 
 liked Forza Motorsport 2, but there was something about it that just wasn't up my alley. After 
 watching some previews and the commercials for and about this game, I decided to pick it up. I 
 found out this type of racing was more in the genre I like. I'm not really sure why, but it just 
 hit the spot the way that Forza couldn't... maybe it was the in car view, the damage realism.... or 
 the lack of when you touch anything you automatically spin out like in Forza...
  
  I do miss the variety of cars that Forza had to offer, but the type of racing more than makes up 
 for the difference to me. If you like Forza, that's wonderful, play it and maybe you are the type 
 that likes to have both types of racing in your collection. Myself, on the other hand, finds that 
 my tastes change as often as the games do, therefore, I shall only have one or two different types 
 at a time. After playing DiRT I found myself playing Forza less and less and even liking it less 
 and less as well. In the end I traded Forza in and still continue to play DiRT... probably because 
 it's just the type of racing I like right now... but I recommend both 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tyuzfuny
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 29, 2007 7:24 pm PT
Review:  DiRT has the it factor. DiRT is the kind of game that would be playing on an Xbox 360 kiosk that 
 people would stop and take note of. DiRT really has that working in its favor even while other 
 things arent quite flawless in the game.
  
  DiRT is a continuation of the Colin McRae series. Colin McRae has always been the dominant force 
 in rally racers, and though DiRT continues on with that tradition, it definitely has a different 
 feel then the rest of the series.
  
  When you fire up the game you are greeted by what is hands down the greatest menu system Ive ever 
 seen. Not only is it absolutely astonishing to look at, but it navigates fluidly too boot. Youre 
 given the option of playing through the championship mode, which is the career mode, playing in 
 cup matches, or playing online against other people.
  
  The championship mode is basically a pyramid of various rally races that you have to fight through. 
 There are, I believe, six different types of events, ranging from buggy races, to solo hill climbs. 
 Having that variety there really helps make it more exciting, and it really keeps it fresh.
  
  Once you hit the track, you are greeted by some more fantastic visuals to drool on. This really 
 is up there with Gears of War for the wow factor. My only complaint is that when you are in the 
 middle of a ton of other cars, the frame rate plummets into the low teens at times. It doesnt 
 happen often, and it is manageable, but it is an unfortunate issue.
  
  The actual driving in this game is quite good. The handling is quite solid, although some of the 
 cars do feel a bit off in the unpaved sections. But drifting around corners and accelerating during 
 straight-aways really feels great in this game.
  
  The real disappointment comes in the form of value. Though the game is fantastic, Im 60% done 
 and Ive only raced for around 4 hours in the single player. The online could have been the saviour 
 for this, but unfortunately, its a massive let down. It says you can race up to 99 other people 
 at time, which is only partially true. The main problem is that you cant actually see them, and 
 youre just racing while they are and comparing times at the end. If they could have nailed this 
 one last piece of the puzzle, this could have been the racer of the year.
  
  So in summary, an amazing racer with a great audio/visual presentation that ends up being a slightly 
 skimpy package. A great rental, and if you still find yourself hooked, a purchase maybe a good 
 idea. Positives:
  + Best graphics of any racer ever
  + Great sound effects
  + Solid racing model
  + Great variety
  
  Negatives:
  - Framerate that dips
  - Short single 
 player
  - Multiplayer = Major letdown 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JDC92
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jul 28, 2007 3:17 pm PT
Review:  Greatest off-road racing game out there. Very realistic. The crash details are amazing. Probably 
 the funnest car racing game you can play. I think maybe PGR4 can beat it. But maybe not because 
 no car racing game is realistic as DiRT. In PGR3, the crash details were terrible. In DiRT, the 
 details effected the way your car drives. And it looks awesome too. In other racing games, you 
 crash into a tree in the center of the front of your car, and it will effect the corner of the 
 front. In DiRT, it effects where ever the object hits. And I love the TERMINAL DAMAGE effects. 
 Again, very realistic. Hard to control your car at times on dirt. Also, a very good variety of 
 cars and liveries. And the fact that you can race buggy's, trucks, and buses. Overall, awesome 
 racing game. I don't think any other racing game will beat it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mdriscool
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 26, 2007 12:09 pm PT
Review:  dirt is a really good game with brilliant graphics and a great offline career but the online play 
 sucks and you can only do 2 types of races. You cant do split screen on your on consol either. 
 The championship games are fun. If you want to just bash your car up and have fun this game is 
 the racing game too get but if you want great online play get forza. Dirt has lots of of places 
 too race and has a good range of cars. The damage effects on this game are first rate and the disructible 
 enviroments are great aswell. This game is also great fun for just taking out your opponents. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AndyTSJ
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jul 24, 2007 3:46 am PT
Review:  I own a bunch of racing games - Forza, Need for Speed, Flatout UC to name a few - but each of them 
 is different in their own way. Dirt follows that trend. It's not Forza, so anyone expecting that 
 kind of racer will be disappointed. It's not Need for Speed, so again, anyone expecting that will 
 be disappointed. What Dirt is, is a cross between the two - not enough to be a sim, but better 
 than an arcade racer. With that in mind, the driving won't feel as tight as it does in Forza but 
 not as loose as in NFS.
  
  This game is based predominantly on European rally driving. This should not be confused with off-road 
 dirt racing found in the US or other types of dirt racing - meaning, this is the kind of racing 
 that you'd see in the World Rally Championship and not some US style ton-truck racing through mud 
 type driving game. From the other reviews I've read, there's been some misconceptions about what 
 Dirt is based on as a racing title so I figure it makes sense to clear that up.
  
  Beyond that, Dirt is graphically outstanding and there are a bunch of different racing modes to 
 enjoy. I'd love to see some more in there and the online stuff could have been made a lot better 
 than it is, but overall there's plenty to choose from.
  
  Codemasters has a legact of strong racing titles going back and this follows on nicely from what 
 has gone before. The Toca racing series has always stood out and Colin McRae was a stellar PS2 
 title. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kontraband101
Rating: 3.3
Date: Jul 24, 2007 3:20 am PT
Review:  I have been looking foward to this game for a long time, its been a while since i played a truley 
 decent rallying game and i hoped that this would fill that gap. What i expected was forza 2 but 
 in a rally setting what i got was a load of corney jokes arcade style driving and severe dissapointment.
 
  Sure the graphics are astonishing but what use is that in a racing game which drives like the 
 cars have no true connection to the road itself, the best way i can describe the driving experience 
 it to imagine your driving a hover-car floating around the track with no real feel as to the raod 
 surface whatsoever.
  But this isnt even the worst thing. The brakes? i have my douts as to whether whoever desing the 
 gameplay aspect which concerned the stopping of the vehicle has ever driven a car before, let alone 
 whitnessed a five ton rally cross truck doing 60 on a dirt road. All you have to do its lightly 
 press the trigger to brake and it does so in a fustratingly short amount of distance and time.
 
  The overringing factor of this game should have been the awesome rally gameplay realistic experience, 
 but its not and on that part (the most important) they have failed.
  
  If this game were to be compared to something, i would compare it to an alfa-romeo (not sure on 
 the spelling) . i. e looks great, offers alot of promise, but when you get behind the wheel you will 
 only ever be dissapointed.
  Thank you, good night 
::::::

::::::
UserName: speed8989
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 23, 2007 6:33 pm PT
Review:  This game adds a new style to racing and does a great job of it for all who've been looking for 
 a refreshing type of race. I mean he genre is'nt new but lately it's been all about the tuner style 
 racing games but it's nice to see a company was willing to try something different and not follow 
 the hype. Not to say tuner racers aren't cool but they're getting old with few new twists. In fact 
 I didn't think Dirt would be that good but it blends the old school Car Selection style (no customization) 
 and brings it into a new high def world. Not to mention that the graphics are ten times better 
 than Forza 2. *High Five* Code Masters and Ingenuous Games :P 
::::::

::::::
UserName: farrell2k
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 23, 2007 3:50 pm PT
Review:  I'll keep it to the point and not focus on things that aren't important.
  
  This is exactly what the 360 needed, a fantastic rally racer.
  
  Great graphics, physics, visuals, 
 and gameplay combine to make Dirt, one of the best racers on any console.
  
  The framerate dips every once in a while, but the challenging gameplay make up for it. It's a game 
 you can pick up and play for 10 minutes, or even an hour and still have white nuckles while playing. 
 Replay value is through the roof! It's always fun to try to best your time and make your way uop 
 the xbox live leaderboards.
  
  A definite must-buy for anyone who likes racing games! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Godsofplunder
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jul 21, 2007 9:33 pm PT
Review:  Just had time and funds to rent the game. WILL purchase the game shortly though!
  This game seems to have it all.
  *Stunning visual effects
  *Easy game play
  *Audio is quite 
 impressive
  *Turnover value is full bore
  *Online features for multiplayer is exciting
  
  I don't have the steering wheel/foot pedals as of yet (getting it though for NASCAR 08 as well) , 
 but the handling of the vehicles is still smooth as silk!
  I imagine the wheel will add even greater stability.
  
  There are many different levels of 
 achievement in DiRT which allow you to advance your career as a Robby Gordon DRIVE ANYTHING, ANYWHERE 
 type of driver. (Not that I am a fan of RG) .
  
  Only one thing that stood out as a negative for this game, and I could be wrong, is there was no 
 two player simultaneous play (we couldn't figure a way to compete against a guest (split screen 
 or otherwise) . We'll see.
  
  Any way, I suggest picking this game up! You will NOT be disappointed in the least.
  
  Hours 
 upon hours of fun in the DiRT!
  
  - GOP 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shawn7324
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 21, 2007 3:28 am PT
Review:  DIRT mixes both Arcade &amp; Simulation racing. It mixes things up very well and that is what makes 
 it such a great game. You can race on several different types of tracks, including dirt, gravel, 
 &amp; pavement. Also there are several different types of vehicles to race with like cars, trucks, 
 buggys, and even Semi Trucks. Thats not all as there is also many different types of racing events 
 throughout the career mode. The graphics are just beautiful &amp; hardcore at the same time, &amp; 
 the online multiplayer is a thrill. DIRT blends in so many different aspects of racing so that 
 all Racing game fans are capable of getting into it. Great Game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BigC43
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 20, 2007 6:13 am PT
Review:  The Good: Fantastic graphics, good variety of racing events, well done single player mode, excellent 
 sound effects, controls great, 100 player online!
  
  The Bad: Some minor graphical glitches during gameplay, aren't alowed to go off the track during 
 races, can get pretty frustrating at times.
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  2007 has been a great year for racing games. Forza 2 and Motorstorm are getting all the attention, 
 but one title that many have not heard of is actually a brilliant fusion of the two, and is one 
 of the best racing games on the market. That game is DiRT from Codemasters. DiRT was originally 
 an extention of the Collin McCray Rally series, before some changes in developers caused the game 
 to turn out much different than the previous games in that series, so it became it's own beast, 
 and lost the Collin McCray name from it's title. DiRT is not only an awesome racing game, but it 
 is a graphical powerhouse, features amazing sound effects and 100 player online races. This is 
 one racer you can't afford to miss.
  
  In the single player mode, you must climb the triangle of DiRT to get to the Tournament of Champions 
 and prove you are a rally master. To do so, you must complete every event on every layer. The bottom 
 levels have a bunch of easy races, while the middle and upper levels have fewer, but harder races. 
 The more races you win, the more races unlock. The variety of races is also very impressive. I've 
 raced everything from rally cars, to dune buggies, to dump trucks, or what appeared to be dump 
 trucks. Each unique event has different challenges, and it ensures that no two races are the exact 
 same. The racing is pretty realistic, similar to Forza, but it has a dash of the arcady, Motorstorm 
 racing that makes it a good fusion of both. The achievement points are very well spread out throughout 
 the single player campaign, so you can get the vast majority of them just for completing every 
 event in the campaign with 1st place. My only problems with the gameplay are the frustration levels 
 and not being able to use short cuts. During races, whenever you try to cut across some land to 
 get into first place, you are respawned back where you were before you tried to cut corners. This 
 is frustrating, but once you figure it out, you just race lagitly and nothing goes wrong. Some 
 races, such as the dump truck and buggy races may require you to attempt them over and over again 
 to get 1st place, which is frustrating, but the game is enjoyable enough to keep going dispite 
 your frustration.
  
  The graphics are up there with Gears of War as some of the best on the Xbox 360, or any platform 
 for that matter. When driving on a dirt road, your car get's a build up of mud stuck to the base, 
 which is a very nice touch. Your car also takes realistic damage to crashes, and controls exactly 
 like it's real life counterpart would. Some cars are very loose, while some handle tight curves 
 with ease. The environments in DiRT are also outstanding and look amazing. I did encounter some 
 minor graphical glitches, but nothing that would blemish this amazing game's visual mastery.
  
  The sound effects are also superb. The world you drive in sounds realistic, you can crash and 
 it sounds perfect, you are guided through rally races by a guy who sounds like a real rally racer. 
 In fact, I think he is an actual rally racer... The fact is, DiRT is a must own racing game for 
 gamers looking for a perfect cross between Motorstorm and Forza 2. It's realistic, but arcady enough 
 for the Burnout crowd to enjoy. I would definately recomend that all racing fans checked this game 
 out!
  
  Gameplay: A near perfect mix between Forza 2 and Motorstorm, DiRT plays and controls fantastically.
 
  
  Graphics: Some of the best visuals a 360 game has to offer.
  
  Sound: The sound effects are also top notch.
  
  Value: This is a rare $60 game that is worth 
 the money if you want a fantastic racing game.
  
  Final Thoughts: All that Champane... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamerichard
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 21, 2007 12:48 pm PT
Review:  The Colin McRae games has gone on for a long time now and with its latest outings it's kinda been 
 the same thing over and over again, though enhanced of course, but always the same rally. In Codemasters 
 latest outing you'll be driving boggys and climbing mountains in huge trucks! Dirt is different, 
 and it's quite brilliant!
  
  Rally has never looked this good before. Driving from either outside or inside cockpit view looks 
 gorgeous. I think especially the cockpit view is awesome. The whole car can be smashed during the 
 race. And also the environments are very destructible. The game has got some drops in frame rate 
 though, but other than that the game looks perfect.
  
  There is as well as no music in the game, though that is not necessary with such fantastic sound 
 effects and voice work. In the menus there is this guy talking to you about all kinds of stuff, 
 like telling you what kinda race you're about to drive, or teaching you how to tune your cars. 
 There is also briefing on each track which in fact is very helpful, cause he tells you what you 
 want to hear and keeps it brief.
  
  Dirt plays like most rally games only it's got some fancy race modes. You drive a lot of ordinary 
 rally, but you'll also compete in all kinds of races. You have rally, rallycross, hillclimb, CORR, 
 crossover, and rally raid. They are all a lot of fun, but the best mode is still the classic rally 
 races. The feeling of rushing through some heavy corners on the German countryside is amazing, 
 and makes you wanna stop and take pictures of these fantastic locations. Dirt plays great and the 
 whole game is so well done. Having said that I still expected a better multiplayer. Cause what 
 you have here is more of a sharing of race times, and not a fully worthy head to head multiplayer 
 you would expect. The rest of the game though is close to perfect as a rally game. There is a meaty 
 career mode as well as several championships spanning the whole world. Dirt is the best rally game 
 I've played, and you ought to try it out. And by the way... the menu is insane!!! : D
  
  +
  Fantastic graphics. Great sound effects and voice actors that talk smooth and comforting. 
 A lot to do in both career and championship mode. Fantastic menu system that blew me away! Cockpit 
 view is awesome!
  
  -
  Some drops in frame rate. Disappointing multiplayer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 1fast6
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 17, 2007 4:19 pm PT
Review:  overall pretty fun, but a tad bit too arcade -y for my taste... I prefer more of a true sim approach 
 to racers... the cars seem to float over any surface... whether sand, mud, or tarmac, the handling 
 feels the same... steering response is slow, but the brakes will stop you on a dime (again, on 
 ANY surface) ... doesn't seem to be any variability on the accelerator (ie, its either full on, 
 or dead stop) , so the rear tends to break away with any input, which is surprising on FWD and AWD 
 vehicles... and although it has lots of adjustment settings, they don't seem to appreciably affect 
 the handling...
  
  but, it has good visuals, and the CORR trucks and buggies are a blast... you can even race semi 
 tractors and garbage trucks on the hill climbs... a lot has been commented on the crappy on-line 
 play... it pretty much plays as the single player mode, in that you don't race on the track simultaneously 
 - multiple racers will race at the same time, but you are essentially racing against placemarkers 
 on the progress guage... I do kinda wish it has voice chat, cuz otherwise it feels like you are 
 racing against 10 opponents in the single player game... and NO CORR races in multiplayer??? whats 
 up with that?? its the funnest part of the game...
  
  oh, well... back to a REAL racer... FORZA... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: steve_59
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 17, 2007 2:07 pm PT
Review:  Just got this game today so I haven't spent a great amount of time on but what I have seen so far 
 it looks to me that it is going to be a very enjoyable and challenging game. I really like the 
 choices you are given with the camera view, the view choice s in other driving games I have tried 
 are limited to where you can view from, which to me is a bit of a let down after all part of being 
 able to feel like you are in the driving seat is all part of the experience. The only small thing 
 that is a small let down is so far I have found that all the voices are American, no offence to 
 any Americans, but Colin Mcrae is Scottish after all and it a little bit of a shame that Codemasters 
 haven't stuck with the voices in the previous series. That said this is not going to stop me from 
 enjoying this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Altair150
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jul 17, 2007 1:47 pm PT
Review:  Dirt is a very fun racing game. And that's all it is, racing. No Burnout look-alike here. Like 
 all of the Colin McRae games, it's a rally car racer. You choose from Career mode, a Tournament 
 Mode, Multiplayer, and Rally Mode. All are the same thing... No variety of activities in the game. 
 You either are racing in a time trial, race, or race EVENT. But to tell you the truth, they're 
 all the same. Don't get me wrong this game isn't half bad, but It isn't worth $60 of your money. 
 This game is a pretty thing to look at, and the damage effects and crashes give you some memorable 
 moments. One other thing that made this game alright is the variety of cars and trucks you get 
 to drive. There are a lot of vehicles. Soon or a later, sadly, this game WILL get boring. Rent 
 it for 5 days, have your share of DiRT and be done. Enough said!
  
  Rent or Buy: RENT iT! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shikaku9
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 13, 2007 5:08 am PT
Review:  Well, after a little while away from writing reviews, I'm back! As usual, this is only my opinion 
 in a clear and concise format, I'm not going to tell you to like or dislike anything, that's for 
 you to decide for yourselves.
  
  PROS
  
  1) Fantastic graphical detail, bar one or two things (see CONS) . The cars are spectacularly well 
 modelled and pretty much any part can be damaged, I believe Codemasters put in 9 destructible 'panels' 
 on each vehicle, that means your car can look pretty crippled by the time you've hurled it over 
 a few cliffs (if it survives!) . Mud and dirt also accumulate on your car as the race progresses 
 and the cockpits/drivers look fantastic. The tracks are beautiful, from normal road tracks with 
 full stadiums, to the rally stages in the Italian hills and the miles and miles of landscape. Most 
 of the environment can also be taken out with your car too! A real visual treat, especially in 
 HD. Also, despite only running at 30fps (Forza runs at 60fps) there is a real sense of speed in 
 the game, don't be put off by the low frame rate.
  
  2) Presentation is second to none. The menu screens are a fantastic idea. The screens are all 'floating' 
 within the main area, with the next possible menus being seen to queue behind the first. It's very 
 similar to the new cascading 'switch to windows' system in Windows Vista.... only better. During 
 loading you're shown a large array of facts, such as your favourite race type, longest time on 
 2 wheels, total miles driven etc. Plenty to keep you amused with while the game loads. In career 
 mode, you're shown an enormous 36-event pyramid that you must work your way through. Winning the 
 lower championships unlocks the next few along as usual. Also, the HUD is very easy to work out, 
 it's simple yet effective. pausing allows you to look at your damage.
  
  3) The game itself can be a little difficult to get into, especially if you are new to rallying 
 or have spent a long time playing sims like Forza. Dirt is more towards the arcade racing style. 
 Those who love arcade or rally games will love this from the word go. The game includes the usual 
 single event mode, championship mode and career mode. As you progress through career mode, races, 
 tracks and vehicles unlocked will be available in the other modes. With several racing disciplines 
 to adapt to, including crossover, rallycross, CORR and hill climb, there should be something for 
 everyone. Some events dont even use cars, there's over 100 vehicles to buy as you progress (with 
 several paint jobs/sponsors to buy for too) through your career which include CORR buggies, WRX 
 rally cars, trucks and even rubbish trucks/trash carts. Different difficulties provide different 
 challenges, with the easiest setting providing easy opposition and invincible cars and the top 
 setting providing world class opponents and real-world accurate damage. The higher your difficulty, 
 the higher your prize money. Like PGR, you can choose your difficulty per event, so you don't have 
 to stick to the same setting throughout your entire career. Be warned, on high difficulty settings 
 the other drivers will actively seek to run you off the track. Several camera points are also at 
 your disposal, 2 behind the car, a bumper cam, a dashboard cam and drivers-view. Replays are a 
 nice option, with the ability to pause, rewind, change camera and go in slow motion for those extra 
 crunchy smash-ups. Controls are easily set out, and can be customised to your taste if you don't 
 find anything you like in the presets. You can also use a steering wheel if you like. Unlike Forza 
 2, with this game I felt there was a real incentive to actually try and progress, simply due to 
 the large array of different events and vehicle types. And because you feel like you've earned 
 the wins that you get. Plus, there's more fun hurling your car around corners sideways, knowing 
 full well that at any second somebody could send you flipping over the hill. Like in all Colin 
 Mcrae games, the pivot point for the cars is always dead centre, not particularly realistic but 
 I guess it adds to the arcade feel of it all. It could be a pro or con, personally it didn't bother 
 me too much.
  
  4) Sound is great. There's no official tracks like in other current racing games, but the techno 
 soundtrack is well suited to the genre. The vehicle and crash sound FX are fantastic, making you 
 feel those crunches and exhausts blasting out. Co-pilot commands are easy to follow, with the usual 
 rally commands ( eg, 2 right, over crest etc) to go with the visual aids, and the odd bit of encouraging 
 advice. The advice is a nice little touch, stops you thinking the person sat next to you in the 
 car is a monotone robot.
  
  CONS
  
  1) Couple of graphical issues. One is a minor thing that I picked up on (you'll never notice unless 
 your car is stationary though) , and that is that any crowds you see in grandstands are completely 
 flat cardboard cutouts. I know it's me being picky, but in this new generation of consoles it would 
 be nice to see some form of life in the crowds, You can hear them well enough and see them at the 
 start/finish lines all in 3D and moving about, now let's see them a bit more in the stadiums.
 
  
  2) The other graphical issue is that sometimes if there is a lot going on at once in a race, like 
 lots of cars or lots of environmental details, the frame rate can suffer, going down to something 
 like 15-20fps. It's noticeable, but hopefully most people won't be put off by this. i wasn't, you 
 get used to it. It's certainly something that can be improved though.
  
  3) The cars do sometimes feel like they're on cushions of air, a bit like being on an air hockey 
 table. This makes the steering light enough that you don't feel as though your tyres are gripping 
 too well. Even on loose gravel, the car will always have some sort of grip. More weight physics 
 to the vehicles, that's what's needed.
  
  4) Multiplayer is a bit of a joke. The box takes great pride in telling you that you can race against 
 upto 100 other players. What it doesn't tell you is that it's not that easy to setup a tournament 
 with them and that you can only race in a rally stage style. That is, you never see an opponent 
 car, you just all race at the same time on your own version of the track, and the computer just 
 compares your times afterwards. Big let down.
  
  5) Would be nice to see some more weather effects. I've noticed that many games of recent years 
 have neglected the weather, which is always so important in driving! PGR4 seems to have got this 
 together, so why couldn't Colin McRae? I've seen sun and I've seen wet roads, but not even the 
 smallest raindrop ever falls from the sky while you race. Snowfall would also be nice!
  
  CONCLUSION
  
  Well, despite it's flaws, I really enjoyed this game. It's perfect for those 
 who love arcade style racers and/or rally games. Certainly worth adding to the collection in my 
 opinion, I preferred it to Forza. Forza is too much like every other racing sim out there (such 
 as it predecessor and Gran Turismo) , only with no feeling of speed or thrill in the races. Hope 
 you liked my review, please feel free to let me know what you think. I may have left one or two 
 points out but it's late and I can't think straight anymore. But remember, it's only my opinion, 
 so don't go trying to shoot me down in flames if you preferred Forza or anything like that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JC346
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 10, 2007 8:09 am PT
Review:  Gameplay- DiRT has great gameplay that will keep you busy for hours. You have a lot of camera views 
 and my personal favorite is the driver camera view. The controls are very simple and you will be 
 playing in no time. While you are driving, you will be going off bumps, going a round turns, and 
 crashing. Crashing in this game is actually fun because you and your car experince many flips, 
 spins, and rolls. Online is kinda of shallow because you are by yourself on the track and its kind 
 of like a time trial. The single player mode is great and will keep you busy for hours trying to 
 make it to the top.
  
  Graphics- The graphics are amazing and beatiful to look at. The lighting on the cars looks amazing 
 and the tracks are well done and beatiful.
  
  Sound- The sound sounds like it would if you were actually in the car. The engines roaring, the 
 cars smashing together, it all sounds great. The only bad part about the sound is that you have 
 a guy talking non sense into your ear.
  
  Value- This game is great for $60 and well worth it. If you are not really a fan of the racing 
 genre then I would reccomend renting this first. If you are a fan of the racing genre, then this 
 is a must buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gord_mose
Rating: 7.1
Date: Jul 9, 2007 8:38 am PT
Review:  Okay, I admit DIRT looks great. It has awesome graphics, even on my crappy standard definition 
 TV. Some effects, like breaking glass, are poorly done, but overall the environments and the cars 
 look great. That's the good part.
  
  The bad part is that the actual vehicle handling is arcadey in nature and not very rewarding. You 
 slam the brakes and the vehicles stop without even sliding or becoming unstable in the least. You 
 take a corner too quickly and the vehicles just don't feel realistic; it's more Need for Speed 
 than Forza, more Burnout than Project Gotham Racing.
  
  And this wouldn't be so bad if the game didn't stick you into the same cramped environments used 
 in the Colin McRae games; they aren't fun and they aren't rewarding. At least the old Railisport 
 Challenge series was fun. But DIRT is not at all.
  
  I know everyone loves this game, and you might too, but if you like the semi-realism of PGR3 or 
 the even more realistic Forza 2, or if you enjoyed the short but sweet rally aspects of Gran Turismo 
 4, you won't enjoy this game. It may rival Motorstorm (never played it so I don't know) but it 
 doesn't rival any of those. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dmonee
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 7, 2007 3:40 pm PT
Review:  Let me preface my essay by saying, I have never played a Mcrae game before, and two, I was severely 
 dissapointed by Forza 2. From the point of booting this thing up and racing for DAYs, I have never 
 seen or raced, quite like this in a video game before. Just the variety of the vehicles, the race 
 tracks, and the race types is incredible. The game proves that you don't need 500 cars and an endless 
 amount of customary options to make a fun racer. Which is exactly what DIRT is. FUN! The most dissapointing 
 thing about Forza, was it's monotony. This game is everything but. Every track has it's share of 
 jumps, bumps, hairpin turns, and overall sense of danger that Forza just fails to deliver. Another 
 thing that I noticed, is that people have complained about the way these cars handle. I wil say 
 that after racing for a little while and you start playing around with the tuning, the cars will 
 feel just right. Last but not least, the visuals are the best I, ve ever seen in a videogame, take 
 that GOW! I have had more fun playing Dirt than any other racing game that I have ever played. 
 You may not love it as much as me, but I gaurantee that you'll like it. Since when was the last 
 time you raced a Mack truck thru a desert and up a mountainside...... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alexmantell
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 7, 2007 2:24 pm PT
Review:  Very happy with this game. Amazing visuals/sound. Very good blend of simulation/arcade style racing 
 (more on the simulation side) . You'll be hooked on this game for a while. Good way to get your 
 money's worth out of your 360. I play with a normal controller and it drives great. In-car view 
 really sucks you in. High level of challenge and intensity. This game really sets itself apart 
 from the typical racing game. This is a really refreshing break from NFS and Gran Turismo.
  
  Cons: No vehicle-customization &amp; limited online-play, framerate occasionally drops (never 
 an issue though.)
  
  Bottom line: If you're a fan of racing games, buy this game and be blown away. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: whiskeyjazz
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jul 6, 2007 6:18 pm PT
Review:  If you ask me, DiRT is a mixture of both arcade and simulation. For traditional rally races, I 
 would say they maintain a realistic level while the new race types added to this game come as arcade 
 races. I guess these types of races and vehicle handling where created to attract the attention 
 of new customers in the Colin Mcrae series. It's obvious that Codemasters wanted to change the 
 game a bit since their old CMR series games didn't sell well on America. The first change they 
 made was taking Colin Mcrae out of the title of the game in America (The European version of this 
 game is called Colin Mcrae DiRT) . I guess people who saw Colin Mcrae on the title knew all they 
 would find in the game were solo point-to-point races which many people find boring. Personally, 
 I think these types of races are the best ones (yes, I'm a rally fan) .
  
  The handling and driving in comparison to the old CMR games is different in DiRT, but not bad at 
 all. In DiRT, the handling changes depending on the race type. In some it's realistic and in others 
 it's more arcade. People seem to complaint that cars have a floaty feel to them and that they 
 stick too much to the roads (Hey, that's what these Half a million dollar rally cars were designed 
 to do) , but in comparison to the old CMR series I think the floaty feel was significantly reduced.
 
  
  As mentioned earlier, there are many race disciplines in Dirt: Rally (close to realistic driving) , 
 which you could say is the discipline where cars handle like the old CMR; Crossover (mixture of 
 arcade and realistic driving, cars are glued to the ground here) , which is derived from super special 
 stages, Rallycross (close to arcade driving) , where you race with other cars on closed circuits; 
 Rally Raid (close to arcade driving) , where you race other cars point-to-point, CoRR (close to arcade 
 driving) and hill climb (close to realistic driving) . These new disciplines are very fun and a nice 
 addition, but I personally prefer the classic rally races, so to please everyone, there's career 
 mode and there's championship mode. Championships is the one every rally fan is going to. It's 
 all about racing different Rallies, each one containing many stages (Just like WRC races) . Career 
 mode contains every type of event. It's career mode you have to play to unlock new cars and tracks.
 
  
  On a plus side to simulation in DiRT, the damage on the cars can be very realistic (depending on 
 the difficulty level) and there are lots of options for tuning and car setup which you can change 
 to fit your driving style. Car setup is way more detailed than in old CMR games. What really bothered 
 me was that there is no tire selection and races are also missing rain and snow (yeah it sucks, 
 but hey, the game is called DiRT, not SnoW) . Also, the times between drivers at the end of the 
 race are more realistic (unlike old CMR series, where they all finish with a 0.1 second behind) . 
 Before, you were most likely to come in 1st place or last. Now, you'll find yourself in the middle 
 of the leaderboard or competing in the top 5 plenty of times.
  
  If you've played old CMR games, you'll definitely notice that the co-driver in DiRT tells you have 
 of the track information than old CMR games. The Sound in Colin Mcrae is awesome, and so are the 
 visuals. Crashes and car damage are extremely detailed. The special and lightning effects are awesome. 
 Truly one of the best looking games on the XBOX360. There's a downside to it, sometimes you will 
 experience heavy frame rate issues. The game practically stops for almost a second like if you 
 were playing a new PC game on a very old computer. Frame rate issues are not that frequent and 
 they usually happen when racing against other cars simultaneously. The frame rate issues also appear 
 when using the chase cam views. I always prefer to play with an in- car view such as helmet cam 
 and I have never experienced frame rate dropping this way. Another thing that looks amazing in 
 DiRT is the replays. Too bad you can't save them (what's the hard drive for?) One thing that was 
 a disappointment for almost everyone is the multiplayer. There's not even a 2 player local multiplayer, 
 just on system link or on Xbox live and although you are racing other players, you don't actually 
 see them in you're screen. Here's how it works: Up to 100 players race simultaneously on a point-to 
 point rally race and there's you're current position is displayed for you to know how far you are 
 from the leader. The player who finishes first wins. It's just a normal rally race but there's 
 a little extra pressure since you'll know how close other player are to your tail and if they catching 
 you or you are continuously swapping positions with other players. Since I am a rally fan, I did 
 enjoy this multiplayer, but I do admit there's allot missing (there's not even voice chat!!!) .
 
  
  Overall, I do like DiRT, allot actually. I recommend it to anybody who loves racing games. DiRT 
 has a lot to offer and it is a beautiful game to watch. But beware old CMR fans; the game has changed 
 to attract new customers. I still enjoy DiRT, but CMR2005 is one of the primary reasons I haven't 
 sold my original XBOX yet. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joshuacollins
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 5, 2007 10:21 pm PT
Review:  1) This game kept me from buying a PS3. What an awesome alternative to MotoStorm. That is one of 
 the major drawing points, i thought it looked so cool.
  
  2) Holy Crap. Totally impressed by the music selection, give that licensing director a raise!!!!!!!!!!!! 
 3) I love how they broke it up into not JUST offroad stuff. The competitive 'tier' is really cool 
 and entices you to keep playing rather than getting sick of a bunch of same-old cars, and same-old 
 tracks. Not only do the tracks and types of cars change often but so do the actual goals. Not just 
 racing and getting in the top 3 but Time Trials and other things.
  
  I was more than impressed upon buying this game... And like I said before, GREAT MUSIC! :)
  Joshua 
 Collins 
::::::

::::::
UserName: talkingpie92
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jul 5, 2007 4:48 pm PT
Review:  DiRT is the latest game in the Colin McRae rally franchise, and it certainly doesn't disappoint. 
 It is not only a refined and polished technical achievement, but also delivers involving and exhilarating 
 game play, resulting in one of the best racing games to be released for a long time.
  
  So DiRT is a rally game. But the developers have stepped it up a notch this time around by including 
 a host of varied race types in addition to the classic rally. You have different types of rallies 
 such as 4WD and RWD, and Hill climb - which are single car races with just you against the clock, 
 plus other events like rally cross, rally raid and CORR which all pit you against many other vehicles 
 on the same track. The inclusion of all these different events is an excellent addition to the 
 game as it adds plenty of variety and stops the action ever getting old.
  
  The driving model itself is very good also. It is a sort-of arcade-simulation hybrid and that is 
 no bad thing, because the lack of Forza-esque crawling round corners at 3 mph is definitely not 
 present here and that helps keep the pace of the game going. However, this is no Mario Kart either. 
 The driving does feel good and solid, and let's just say that you definitely know you're driving 
 a car. Another part of the game play that must be mentioned is the damage model. This is an outstanding 
 part of the game, with hundreds of parts of the car able to fall off or dent. Even all the scenery 
 is destructible; a feature that not many driving games can boast.
  
  There are many different options for vehicle types and the good news is that they all feel very 
 different. Powering up a dirt track in a huge big rig feels very different to gliding round smooth 
 tarmac in a nimble Peugeot 207, and this really plays a big part in making sure you get a different 
 experience every time you play.
  
  The bulk of DiRT is in the career mode: a considerably large pyramid of events for you to compete 
 in. Over the course of the career you earn money, buy cars, do races, but to be honest that's about 
 it. It would be hard to call the career mode particularly deep, but it works. The fantastically 
 sleek and well designed menu system exudes class, and your friendly guide Travis Pastrama (a real 
 rally driver) is always on hand to congratulate, console or advise. The package is so well put 
 together that despite the career mode's lack of significant depth, you get a great sense of achievement 
 from winning races and climbing up the pyramid, as well as achievement points, which are well distributed 
 and well balanced.
  
  The other modes in DiRT include Championship and Rally World, where you can compete in multi-stage 
 rally events or choose a single race to participate in, and they add a nice alternative to the 
 career mode, but are nothing special. Also in this day and age you would expect a multi-player 
 element to almost any game and on this DiRT delivers... well kind of. There is an xbox live multiplayer 
 option but there are only classic rally events. You receive real-time updates of how everyone else 
 is doing in relation to you, and it can support up to one hundred players, but on a platform where 
 you have to pay for multi-player, the online component in DiRT just isn't good enough.
  
  The graphics are excellent, with realistic environments, nice car models and fantastic lighting. 
 The tracks themselves are very well done too, with a variety of different surfaces looking just 
 as they should. The sound is arguably the most realistic in any game ever released, with all the 
 vehicles sounding exactly as they should. The only fault with the game's presentation is that the 
 frame rate can dip quite considerably when there are many other cars on the screen, and this can 
 detract from the experience, but it doesn't tend to happen too often and certainly doesn't ruin 
 the game.
  
  DiRT is a truly great game. You don't need to be a rally fan or even a hardcore racing fan to appreciate 
 it. It is easy to pick up and play and has plenty of difficulty levels so you can play it no matter 
 what your level is. This game works because it is simply so well put together. The graphics are 
 outstanding, the sound is incredible and the little touches such as the menu system and the helpful 
 tips from your in game guide make this game good. Despite its shortcomings such as a lack of proper 
 multi-player and the occasional dip in the frame rate, DiRT is a worthy addition to any 360 owner's 
 collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xantiriad
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 3, 2007 11:06 am PT
Review:  For: Beautiful graphics; superb presentation; large variety of race types; original MP
  Against: Limited MP; terrible car physics; frame rate problems; tacked on features
  
  Firstly, 
 I am not a fan of Rally games;
  secondly, I am not a fan of arcade racing games (I hate Ridge Racer) ;
  thirdly, I was playing 
 Motorstorm (PS3) and Forza Motorsport 2 solidly before DiRT was released;
  ... clearly, DiRT was going to have to be amazingly good to get a look in.
  
  The sad fact is 
 that I only bought DiRT because I was so impressed with the menu presentation on the demo - and 
 also the early screen shots! In this respect I am not disappointed: DiRT has the best presentation 
 and menu system of any game to date - it is a thing of beauty. The graphics are stunning; the music 
 is excellent; even the voice-overs are okay. DiRT could be described as the Gears of War of the 
 racing genre.
  
  However, no matter how great it looks and sounds (even with a slightly dodgy frame rate sometimes) 
 I have a major problem with the game: The physics engine sucks.
  
  In fact, it both sucks and blows. For a game with this many varieties of race type, vehicles, and 
 environments to have such an inconsistent, and sometimes laughable physics engine, is disgraceful. 
 Many of the race modes are fine  the US-style rally events are huge fun  but the tarmac based 
 events  particularly Rally Cross and Cross Over  are appalling. The cars handle like supermarket 
 trolleys and the frame rate jumps up and down making it look like something from a speed-up silent 
 movie. Worse still, the Rally events, which rely on power-slides and Scandinavian turns, are ruined 
 by the weightless vehicles and brakes of pure science-fiction.
  
  For me a racing game should be either an arcade racer (Ridge Racer, Burnout) or a simulator (Forza, 
 PGR3- sort off) but DiRT treads a fine line between the two and kind of misses both. If we just 
 had the US style off road racing (basically a MotorStorm clone) , DiRT would be a brilliant and 
 beautiful arcade racer, but the badly misjudged rally and tarmac events ruin the game IMHO.
  
  Dont get me wrong DiRT is still a lot of fun (it gets the thumbs up for the US Rally Races 
 alone) ; its just that it falls some way short of being the classic it should have been. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sydthekid087
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jul 3, 2007 9:34 am PT
Review:  Well it's a racing game. You drive around the track in your car and try beat everyone else. As 
 generic and similar it sounds compared to other racers, it plays really quite well. Each car feels 
 different, and the surfaces are done well to add even more depth. The are several types of cars 
 ranging from classic rally cars to large buggies and trucks. This also adds well to the gameplay, 
 as well as the game modes. There's the Rally mode where you drive through the race with your co-driver 
 telling you about every corner. Next is the Crossover mode where you and another car compete on 
 the same track, but on different sections. These two sections, surprisingly enough, cross over 
 half way through the race, so that you both end up driving the whole track. There are also several 
 other modes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: riggatone
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 3, 2007 8:48 am PT
Review:  DIRT is a game which takes some getting used to. Having come from playing FORZA directly to this 
 was something of a shock to the system. But once you have mastered the secret iof sucess in DIRT 
 (dont go flatout ) and got to grips with the handling then you can really start to have fun with 
 this ground breaking racer. The presentation which is mentioned by all who play and review it, 
 is phenomenal. The game engine that has been built here will do for racing games what the Unreal 
 3 engine has doen for FPS. The sound is functional with the vehicle noises very impressive, the 
 introductions from Pastrana are fine, but the co-driver scripting and delivery is totally out of 
 place. This game will take you around 15 - 20 hours of fun in single player, but sadly the multiplayer 
 is almost nonexistant. Why this was not explored more is a mystery, but for me the single player 
 game is enough of a blast to warrant spending the cash. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gadeos
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jul 3, 2007 6:15 am PT
Review:  It's been a while since I don't see a cool Rally Racing Game. DiRT comes innovating in varous aspects 
 and does it just fine. Keeps classic what it has to and innovates what it must. Gameplay: first 
 of all, cars do feel kind o' floaty (as Gamespot folks told us) , yet it doesn't mean a bad thing 
 since you need almost half an hour to get used to it; when this happens, driving on any surface 
 it's cool (but I admit that street circuits feel weird on close curves and U turns) . Graphics: 
 some of the best I've seen yet. Level of detail's awsome, and car wreck design is unbelivable (every 
 part of the car can be smashed, nice) . Little frame rate problems come when there are too many 
 cars at once but, honestly, it's nothing, absolutely nothing to worry about for it's steady most 
 of the time (like 98%) . Landscapes look amazing. Sound: could have been better but, with everything 
 else being so cool, you won't even notice that sound could have get a bit of work; anyway, sounds 
 nice (if you have your 360 plugged to a good sound system, it sounds great) . Other aspects: the 
 interface is really fun to watch; windows jump from one to the other, you can hear comments about 
 your performance after finishing a race, it's great. There is plenty of vehicle variety to keep 
 you busy for a while, form cars to big trucks, each with its own feel of driving, that's really 
 something. Car wrecks are a feast for the eyes, especially when you roll over, n' over, n' over, 
 n' over again, parts flying in every direction, it's cool to watch. But be aware for your vehicle 
 can get totalled and u'll have to begin the track from the beginning. It's not annoying and, on 
 the contrary, (at least for me) it's something to laugh about.
  
  This game's great, I love it and can't wait to finish my day at job and give a play again. This 
 game is great on every aspect. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tankbrain
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jul 2, 2007 4:21 am PT
Review:  blah blah great game, very poor online. shame.
  I really wanted to race my buggy online around those mud tracks smashing into people, oh well thats 
 not gonna happen unfortunatley.
  anyway the graphics look amazing, and the damge model are very well done. The cars drive quite 
 well and it's easy to pick up and play.
  The sound for the vehicles engines is very good but the ambient track noise is average at best.
 
  a great game to buy if your gonna smash it in two or less days then take back to shop to exchange 
 for forza 2. haha
  pikes peak isone of the best tracks on the game, and driving rod millens 1200hp celica up that 
 hill is out of this world. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nickdastick
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 1, 2007 7:39 pm PT
Review:  I have always been a fan of racing games but more of a casual fan. I liked Gran Turismo and always 
 enjoyed playing the arcade racing games but I never really bought racing games for my consoles... 
 DiRT changed that.
  
  Graphics: Oh my GORGEOUS!!! This is one of the prettiest games on the 360 with amazing looking 
 cars and great effects topped off with a killer damage engine! The draw distance is also great 
 and adds a lot to the game.
  
  Gameplay: I love rally racing and this game does such a good job of making you feel the speed and 
 every turn and bump in the road. I never liked the in car view and never used it until I got this 
 game. Now it's my fave view because it really gets you into the action!
  
  Audio: Cars sound great and environment sounds are nice.
  
  Overall, this is the best racing 
 game I have ever played! People knock the multiplayer but I think it's genius! It can become so 
 intense because the leaderboard updates instantly so every little mistake can mean people jumping 
 ahead of you on the spot! And when you are racing over 70 other cars (up to 99 total challengers) 
 a little slip can mean a lot! This game is for anybody that is even remotely interested in racing 
 games. Oh, and this game is so good, I'm actually buying the Microsoft wheel which is something 
 I never thought I would do! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MoragArkadia
Rating: 7.9
Date: Jun 30, 2007 9:02 pm PT
Review:  Dirt offers up some eye popping rally / time off road and paved road racing. Vehicle models are 
 highly detailed and car damage modeling is some of the best I have ever seen. Regarding singe platey 
 this game offers up a rich plate of maps and skill levels along with a good variety of vehicles. 
 The physics, though probably to arcady for the purists proves to be just right in this fun racer. 
 I highly recommend the wireless 360 wheel as it takes this game (as would be the case in any racing 
 game) to the next level. I have not played with just the regular controller, but then again why 
 would I. As for the cons regarding this game. The lack of a true multiplayer online mode is truly 
 disappointing. There is a multipleyer but it is truly more a cruel joke then anything else as timed 
 races in which other players hang out in the lobby while you race or vice versa. However, lack 
 of a good multiplayer online should not prevent you from picking this game up. It is without a 
 doubt the most gorgeous looking racing game yet on the 360 and the variety of maps and terrains 
 combined with the 360 wireless wheel make this a great addition for any 360 owners look for some 
 off road rally racing fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: parched_son
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jun 29, 2007 12:07 pm PT
Review:  This game has done the Hat Trick. It's a sensational single player game, it has great graphics, 
 and absorbs the gamer enough to hold replay value. After all, isn't that what we're all looking 
 for? Ok, with exception of multi-player, that is. There are variety of vehicles, tracks, and obstacles 
 to keep excitement levels up, but not so difficult that you're ready to throw the game down and 
 walk away. The options for vehicle setup are abundant, come with explanation, and tries to be friendly 
 enough to convince you to give the attention required to dial in these vehicles. Though tedious, 
 if you chose to experiment, the reward can be there when dropping a second or two from your current 
 lap time. The only TRUE disappointment of this game is the multi-player. You do not actually race 
 against someone else, but against clock. Communication is limited to a pre-fashioned text list, 
 unless you use the 360 chat feature with a friend (s) . The feel, for the most part, is you're still 
 playing single player, but get to enjoy the frustration comprising the lobby experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spiniker
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 29, 2007 11:02 am PT
Review:  Dirt is probably one of my favorite racers. When I bought it, I intended to buy Forza 2, but the 
 gamestop I went to was sold out. I had heard some good things about this game so I decided to give 
 it a try. I've been addicted ever since.
  
  Ya there is not much of a multiplayer and there are framerate chokes at times but I feel this game 
 is excellent with these flaws. The cars are a bit floaty as many of the reviewers have put it but 
 personally I like the handling. Feeling a little bit out of control adds to the adrenaline.
  
  Even though your out of control at times it doesn't mean you cant stick some calculated powerslide 
 turns. Its a blast to pendulum through downhill hairpins and to get that perfect racing line. The 
 driving feels great and all the tweaking features let you fine tune your cars.
  
  The graphics in this game are the best I've seen in a racer. The cockpits of the cars rival the 
 ones of PGR3 (I dont see any cockpit feature in Forza 2 :) . Also the sense of speed you feel as 
 you race through the woodland and the incredible destruction effects rival Burnout.
  
  This game strikes a mean between arcade and sim and overall is an addictive, beautiful and incredibly 
 fun piece of software. Dont let the lack of multiplayer stop your interest. At least rent the game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 184him
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 28, 2007 4:35 pm PT
Review:  Overall this is a very, very good rally game. It has a multitude of car types to choose from (46 
 cars total) , and that's just the beginning. It has a very good, easy to use interface, that looks 
 real pretty and no longer are loading screens boring because it relays stats in an interesting 
 way. The graphics are some of the best that I have ever seen, and the environment is very changable. 
 For example if you ding a metal guardrail, nothing happens really, but slam into it and the guardrail 
 bends, and your car takes realistic damage. There is also much to do in this game, with a career, 
 a championship (which is like another career) and online, which I will admit I have not played 
 yet. The achievements are good, not tough to grab, but you will have to work to get them. Overall, 
 bravo. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rhody1976
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jun 28, 2007 1:50 pm PT
Review:  Yes, the graphics are very solid and deserving of a '9'. Gameplay is fun and rather addicting at 
 times... not an easy game, but that's a good thing; you actually have to work to win races, even 
 on medium settings (the way video games should be)
  
  The game is most immersive imo during the buggy races. Most other races you'll tend to race in 
 3rd view or completely out of the cockpit. The buggy design is excellent, and you almost feel as 
 though you are on the tracks. This is definitely the kind of game that'll motivate you to invest 
 in a surround system and big screen TV. However; a weak online mode definitely hurts the Dirt in 
 the replayability department. You know what I want to see? Stunt Car Racer (an old Amiga 500 title) 
 redone... with these kind of graphics, it would be fantastic.
  
  I'd recommend renting this one rather than buying, especially considering the cost of games these 
 days. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tig1979
Rating: 7.4
Date: Jun 28, 2007 1:13 pm PT
Review:  I'll try keep this short n sweet, the game itself is pretty good, although i wasn't as overwhelmed 
 as i thought i would be all the hype surrounding this game, this is a solid good game but i feel 
 there is something missing to give it that total wow factor i was expecting from it.
  
  One of the most annoying things about this game for me is how its gone al American ( i'm not dissing 
 the Americans btw) it's just with previous Colin games if you have ever played them, you have a 
 scottish co driver more than likely and the weather plays a huge part in it, Rallying is a more 
 european sport on the whole also which is why i believe all the other modes have been added in, 
 some are good some are not so good, to me this feels like Toca Race Driver 4 but a little bit more 
 rallying involved with the structure of the game.
  
  If your not sure i would rent first before you buy, it's not a bad game but a lot of things have 
 changed for the worst imo, for me the best rally game ever is still Rallisport Challenge 2 on the 
 original Xbox so here's praying Rallisport 3 will come and blow us away once again!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pat76
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jun 28, 2007 8:53 am PT
Review:  So far this game is really cool. I just wish there a few more options available in the game. Having 
 all class cars on the track at one time would be great. As far as the game play, CM did a great 
 job. The graphics are great. I love the damage, especially in stage races where you have a certain 
 amount of time to fix your damages. So drive safe. In the next series, there needs to be more tracks. 
 A lot of these tracks were in RC 2. The co-driver feature is very helpful. He's saved me quite 
 a few times. Overall, this is one of the best rally games I've ever played. Keep up the good work 
 CM. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vidiet698
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 27, 2007 6:10 pm PT
Review:  From the moment you race in your first Rally Race you will know if this game is for you. There 
 are many cars to purchase and tracks to win and you dont have to work for hours unlocking them 
 because money comes fairly easy and every career race unlocks a new track. Even the surface you 
 race across makes you fell as if you were really flying up the side of a mountain sliding around 
 hairpin gravel turns in your rally car that could be damaged from transmission problems to your 
 tail pipe. This game has really realistic damage that can be changed from no damage to running 
 into a tree at 30 MPH will make a race unfinishable. So straight up if you like any single player 
 racers DiRT is for you. The only problem with this game is there is no split screen multiplayer 
 race option but if you have Xbox Live the up to 100 players you have a chance to race against at 
 one time makes up for it. Also ever race you finish shows the time on Xbox Live and your rank in 
 the world on that track. So get DiRT and get your place in the world or just have fun on the many 
 tracks and cars to choose from. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nackyer
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jun 27, 2007 8:35 pm PT
Review:  I've bought DIRT 2 days ago, and the first thing I said is, like almost everyone: WOW! Graphics 
 are fantastic, especially for the in-car view, and to see real-time damage is a must : not only 
 a broken reflector; wheels can be separated from your car! What about that, PGR3!? Sound is really 
 good too, but you will have to modify sound settings if you want to hear your teammate in your 
 car (he informs you about the next turns in races in which you are alone on the track) as the motor 
 is roaring. You will also hear the sand thrown back by your wheels beautifully.
  
  I personaly think it has great value for single player, but the lack of split-screen multiplayer 
 is always something I hate, because I like to play with my brother but sadly, we can't on that 
 game. The online multiplayer isn't specially good, as you cannot race against other's cars directly, 
 you only fight in time.
  
  And now I get to the controls. I only played with the wireless racing wheel up-to-date, and I got 
 to say it is fuc*ing hard to control. At the beginning, I couldn't even stay on track for 1 minute, 
 even now i got troubles on some tracks... I broke my car a LOT of times, before I was able to finish 
 the race in one piece . The jumps are cool, but the landing is SO frustrating, as before you understand 
 you got to turn the wheel on the opposite side of where you are going, and then replace the wheel 
 to keep control, you always turn the wrong side (!?!?) and go into the cow's land. The awesome thing 
 about the racing wheel, with the force feedback, is that you feel EVERYTHING! Every single rock 
 you pass on, every little jump you take, every wheel that touches the ground on the landing, and 
 the power of traction. It is simply and only AWESOME!
  
  Overall, DIRT is a very good rally game, with road racing also, but be prepared to a lot of : f*cking 
 sh*t, and holy h*ll WTF!?!? before you can really appreciate the game. If you got the racing wheel, 
 you will really immerse in the game and love it after some practice, if you don't ... what are 
 you waiting for? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: assbubbles
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 27, 2007 3:16 am PT
Review:  This is a really AMAZING game. The graphics are great, the realism is extreme, wow its amazing. 
 The sound is really good too, and the gameplay works pretty well. The game is a little short, where 
 you can get all the achievements in under 10 hours. The A. I. is a little weird. On amateur it is 
 very easy, but then you turn it up to pro am and it suddenly becomes much harder. The worst part 
 is that they completely screwed up the multiplayer. I was expecting to do buggy races with other 
 people, but all you can do is rally and hill climb where you cant even see the other players. The 
 game doesent even have a split screen (as far as I know) and it should have.
  
  However, the great game overall makes me forget about an almost complete lack of xbox live multiplayer. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: winduck07
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 26, 2007 9:19 pm PT
Review:  A good game overall although there are some things I do like and dont like. Game physics is good. 
 Very easy to play.
  I tweaked all the settings for the 360 Steering Wheel and still could not rid that annoying side-to-side 
 motion all vehicls had, even on a straight track with the steering wheel, I held the steering wheel 
 straight and the game car would not stay straight, it swerved side to side, whats up with that? 
 Other than that, plays great with the hand controller and other little glitches, after I do a custom 
 load for a vehicle tweak-settings which will default the controller setting to setting one (had 
 mine on custom controller setting) . I had to start the race, exit to the main menu, reload custom 
 settings for my hand controller then return to the race... each time.
  I was kind of expecting at least some sort of free-for-all bumper-cars sandbox section in either 
 single player or online. Nope. Too bad that would be kind of cool, a free roam romp.
  Rolling and flipping over isnt as fun as the commercial makes it out to be, a car rolls off track 
 and the game resets the car back in middle of the track, worse yet all other cars pass you and 
 you have to catch up or start the race over again.
  Overall its a good rally game for the 360, if not the only rally game for the 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: keyboarder20
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jun 26, 2007 12:05 pm PT
Review:  I can not believe some people gave this game low scores. I think, either they don`t like racing 
 games or are PS3 owners annoyed with the fact their version is not yet out. Dirt is a brilliant, 
 fun, varied and exciting game. The variety of racing modes and environments are mind blowing. The 
 graphics are great. The on-board camera is the best ever in any game so far. To say otherwise is 
 just plain stupid. I own all of the Colin McRae games and Dirt is the best of all of them. I accept 
 the on-line mode is not what we are used to have on xbox live. But Colin McRae was never a game 
 known for its on-line gaming. This is a Rally Game. Above all is a time-trial game. In fact ,i 
 think it is nice that all the Colin McRaes perfected the single player mode instead of the multiplayer. 
 This gives me a nice welcomed break from the stupid, shouting ,swearing kids that plague and spoil 
 the on-line experience to all of us who just want to race, have fun and relax. Dirt is a great 
 game. If you don`t like it ,is because you just don`t like racing games or just want to be different 
 for the sake of being different. Dirt plays great, looks great and its super addictive. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gen_Warbuff
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jun 26, 2007 11:10 am PT
Review:  When I first played the demo for this game I could not wait to get my hands on the full version. 
 I loved everything about the demo except that there were no replays so I was anxious to see what 
 they would bring to the table.
  
  Overall this is a very solid rally game, please don't do this game an injustice by trying to compare 
 it to Forza 2, they are NOT THE SAME and are both good for the type of racers they are.
  
  First off, the many camera angles that you can use to race are fantastic! 3 inside car views, one 
 bumper a and 2 ouside views give you everything you can look for. The sense of speed is flat out 
 perfect, as you are zig zagging your way up hills or though towns you will not have time to even 
 think about looking around.
  
  One key component to this game that you will find yourself using is the direction your co-driver 
 gives you. Without him, you will be doomed to many off track crashes. Speaking of crashs, the damge 
 effects in the game are second to none! you will see fenders, hoods, glass and many other parts 
 fly off the car if you find yourself in a wreck. Graphics : This is a multi aspect thing for me. 
 On one hand you have the graphics during the race that are outstanding, and I notice very little 
 to no frame rate issues. But like I said, I wanted to see the replays. IMO the replays are good 
 from a presentation point of view, it's like watching a race on TV. But for some reason the graphics 
 look dull and cartoonish during the replays, and at some points the collision mapping gets wacked 
 out, and you will notice the wheels on the car not even moving.
  
  The online is fun, asuming you like Rally racing where you race against the clock, and not other 
 racers. Good game, but misses on some levels. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: miiiguel
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 27, 2007 2:14 am PT
Review:  A bit about myself:
  - I allways try to buys games of different genres in order to have an eccletic library on my video-games 
 shelf, so I try to pick the best of each.
  - For the reason mentioned above I consider myself a slightly above average player in each genre, 
 and as you know there are people who are really, really good at driving games, so sometimes multiplayer 
 games in those becomes a chore to people like me (taking hard beatings can only be so much fun...) .
 
  Getting over those issues (wich I think it's important in order to figure out why the lackluster 
 online features for me don't mean much, or anything, as a matter of fact) .
  The game:
  Heard many things about the game prior to buying it. The most stressed out points were the lacking 
 decent multiplayer (don't really care) , and the oh so amazing graphics.
  The 1st point, as I said, doesn't bother me at all. I like mainly a solo relation with my games, 
 especially the driving ones. And DiRT manages to deliver one of the best solo experiences a drivinvg 
 game can do. Beautifully put together, the Career, the Rallys', the Hill climb, everything is well 
 placed and balanced. You're in controll, you're seeing yourself develop, you see your score in 
 the leaderboards, you climb up, you're happy because you went 100 places higher, you have money 
 for a new amazing beast of a car..., the list goes on, and on, and on...
  The graphics, yeah..., they're good looking, but after what I read I was expecting more. Don't 
 take me wrong I play it in my 32 1080i TV, it looks fabulous, but I thought it would be like the 
 trailer, and it's not. For example, our car on the replays, look a bit out of the landscape, it 
 looks like it was glued there afterwards, could/should be better placed. In my opinion, PGR3 graphics 
 are better.
  The controls: a dream!, it plays like a freakin beautifull dream, like one of those that you don't 
 want to wake up. Fluid, responsive, aggressive, powefull.
  Sound: The least amazing part of the game, and I feel sorry for it. I allways thought the sound 
 would be the easier part to make good in a game, but some devs mess it up, or as in this case, 
 it doesn't live to the rest of the game. It should, it should!
  This is a must buy for everyone, IMO. Even if you don't like driving games, put it on very easy 
 and have a ball. If you're an harcore driving, put it on very hard and be challenged, be very challenged. 
 If you're like me put it on normal and play harder. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ringu61
Rating: 6.4
Date: Jun 26, 2007 4:42 am PT
Review:  I played the demo and the Graphics = WOW factor when I first fired it up BUT! the Physics is a 
 joke. Buggy one seems to be alright on the sandy track.
  
  Unless they put up a physics fix at Xbox Live, I am not sure whether it is worth to buy the Full 
 Game or not.
  
  Another downside is that the framerates is not fluid but stuttering or choppying. Hope there are 
 official words regarding on these issues and will they fix it or not will impact on my purchase 
 decision.
  
  Conclusion: Graphix = Superb
  Framerates = Poor
  Physix = Driving Flying Camera? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sonofares
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 25, 2007 6:19 pm PT
Review:  Pure fun. That's all I can say. Ok, I can say more. Even during the loading screens you get statistics. 
 Jump in a large enseble of vehicles. Drive offroad on dirt tracks, combination tracks, dirt and 
 asphalt and some just asphalt (i think) . If you've never experienced Rally racing, it's different. 
 In many races you have a co-pilot who is instrumental because they call out what's coming up next 
 on the track in a special rally language that takes a bit to learn but it is very helpful. Travis 
 Pastrama is the main voice of the game, guiding you through the experience. There's a demo of the 
 game on XBOX live. Check it out if you wish or don't even try it out..... no need to test it first......... trust 
 me...... YOU WANT this game!!! I'm also playing Forza 2 right now. It's also a very fun game. But 
 it's different than a Rally game. But let me say DIRT has plenty of depth for sim-lovers. It has 
 enough tuning to satsify the mechanics out there. Plenty of cool vehicles and tracks. Some of the 
 best graphics and gameplay on the 360. Jump into online play with time trials up to 100 players........ whhhhhaatt???? 
 Yep it's true.
  It's fun to check the leaderboards on each track to see wehre you rank in the whole world. Can 
 you make it in the top thousand? The top 10 thousand? Go for it man!
  Fun stuff here.
  GRREEEAATTTT!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: henry777
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jun 25, 2007 6:15 pm PT
Review:  better looking then forza and a whole lot more FUN! u wont find the dept found in forza but man 
 is beautiful and mad fun. the handling doesnt feel like it does on forza and you cant customize 
 like in forza. It did suffer from the dreaded frame rate problem, but the graphics and the fun 
 factor make it so enjoyable that at the end you wont care.... highly recommended for any rally head.... rrrrm.. the 
 interface is very innovative, the game music is good not great but more hip the forza or the same. 
 havent tried the online yet , so I cant comment on that but I know it wont top the forza online 
 play! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 281538960
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jun 25, 2007 5:31 pm PT
Review:  Play this game for just 5 minutes and if you manage to stop playing in the next 5 hours there's 
 something wrong with you. This has to be one of the best rally games in existance and if it's not 
 then I really want to play the others. Why? Lets see...
  
  Graphics: One look at this game and your in love. They're better than almost all of the competition. 
 The cars are detailed to a degree of insanity which is to be expected given that each one supposedly 
 took 40 days to make. The environment around you may not look quite as good as the cars but it's 
 still a cut above the rest. The graphics really make this game stand out from other racers.
  
  Realtime damage/carnage: I had this one race where I piledrived a subaru impreza straight into 
 a stop sign. In most games the car would stop, a scatched texture would appear on the bonnet and 
 the sign post might wobble or fall over. In DiRT I could watch the front of my car crumple into 
 a jagged V around the pole, the wind shield explode outwards and the sign post literally fold over 
 and get ripped out of the ground. My car continued another few meters before a message informed 
 me that my cooling system had just kicked the bucket and my engine wasn't far behind. Needless 
 to say I didn't make it to the finish line. Once the race ended I could the watch the whole ordeal 
 in slow-mo from different angles. That is some class next gen sh*t right there.
  
  Gamemodes: There are 6 ones available - Rally, Rally Raid, Crossover, CORR, Hill Climb, Rallycross. 
 Although the way you play is subtly altered in each mode the central objective (come first) is 
 not. Even though wreck your opponents car isn't strictly rallying it would have been welcome in 
 my opinion.
  
  Vehicle Handling: This has had some mixed views. It's arcadey but realistic at the same time. In 
 my opinion it wasn't meant to be either, it was meant to feel right and in my opinion Codemasters 
 got it just right
  
  Multiplayer: Alright, this is the only area DiRT isn't great. People who were looking to thrash 
 someones buggy on a dirt track will be disappointed. You can only rally/hillclimb for starters 
 and even though you can race against 99 different people at once you cant see or hear any of them. 
 Every checkpoint you pass give the details of other peoples times at that checkpoint. Sadly a missed 
 opportunity
  
  All in all DiRT is still my favourite racer but it could have been a tiny bit more 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jervo
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jun 25, 2007 12:27 pm PT
Review:  It's hard to know what to expect out of a next-gen driving title; ultimately, the point of every 
 driving game ever made, from Night Rider / Pole Position on down, is to get from point A to point 
 B, and generally in a certain amount of time. You have your Burnouts, which make wrecking a vital, 
 visceral and integral part of the experience (as opposed to being an automatic reset) ; you have 
 your Forzas and your Gran Turismos, too, which are dedicated to crafting an experience as close 
 to the real thing as possible. Still, though, when it comes right down to it, you're still going 
 from point A to point B. So, then, where can one innovate? It would seem that the last few years 
 have trended towards 3 specific areas: graphics, physics, and online multiplayer.
  
  Graphically, DiRT is probably the most beautiful driving game I've ever seen. But even before the 
 actual driving starts, the user interface - where you select what you want to do, etc. - is as 
 slick as can be. It's hard to explain without actually seeing it in action, but with the exception 
 of the very beginning of Psychonauts, I've never been so entranced with a game's menu system. And 
 the somewhat lengthy load times before each level are at least made interesting showing you your 
 in-game statistics, which are also quite slick to look at (and you can even move the camera around 
 during these sequences, for whatever that's worth) . As for the driving itself - well, goddamn. 
 Let me put it this way - any hunger I had for the PS3's MotorStorm was very quickly snuffed out 
 once I took a buggy for drive in the mud here in DiRT. The game is pretty much perfect - there 
 are a few minor things here and there, but I only notice them if I'm actively looking for them. 
 When the game is in motion, it's a sumptuous feast for the eyes. And even better - when a race 
 is over, the game automatically starts a replay, which you can then manipulate. Lots of games offer 
 this, but the replay is instantaneous and the slo-mo option is damned-near addictive in and of 
 itself. (The game audio will even become muffled and distant when you hit the slo-mo button, which 
 is just totally awesome.) As for the game's physics - well, I've put Forza 2 through its paces 
 recently, which has a bleeding-edge physics system, and yet it would be utterly pointless to try 
 and compare Forza and DiRT, because Forza only has one driving surface, whereas DiRT has any number 
 of them, often within the same race. Certainly DiRT is a bit less of a sim than Forza, although 
 even if it wasn't, the fundamental styles of driving are so radically different that there's pretty 
 much no basis of comparison at all. The cars do feel a bit floaty, but never unfairly so - the 
 controls are very, very responsive and whenever my car goes flying off the track, I know it's because 
 I screwed up. And that's really all I'd ever want out of a driving game, regardless of the game's 
 particular genre.
  
  I haven't experimented with the online side of the game, as I was hoping to get better through 
 the career mode before branching out - all reviews seem to indicate that the online side is pretty 
 much worthless, which is disappointing. However, since I haven't actually tried it, I can't yet 
 be personally offended. Still, though, at some point I am going to want to check it out, and there 
 appears to be little incentive to do so. Oh well.
  
  My experience with rally-style racing games is pretty much limited to the Xbox's Rallisport Challenge 
 franchise - for whatever reason, I never got into the Colin McRae franchise, of which DiRT is apparently 
 the heir apparent. The RC games were fabulously beautiful and a great deal of fun; DiRT is, as 
 I've said already, the most beautiful driving game I've ever seen and an absolute blast to play. 
 (There's a healthy dose of Achievement Points that can be acquired through the game's first few 
 hours, as well, which is always nice.) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SAMSKYWALKER
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 24, 2007 4:19 pm PT
Review:  This games graphics are top notch. The scenery is amazing and sometimes will cause you to veer 
 off of the road because you arent paying attention. There are a few parts when I noticed the graphics 
 could be better, the shadows every so often will look choppy but other than that theyre great. 
 The career mode in the games lets you try out many different maps, cars, and driving styles. The 
 sound in the game makes you feel as if you are actually in the car as the car rattles as you go 
 over bumps. I use a racing wheel for the game which makes it just that much more realistic, but 
 I have tried using the controller and its still fun but you dont get the same feeling. The car 
 sometimes feels as if it isnt completely planted on the ground. I would recommend a steering wheel 
 as it makes any racing game better. The game can get a little difficult as you move up in the rankings 
 and the courses get harder, and you do have to get use to restarting as you can sometimes land 
 improperly off of a jump and smack a tree and you car gets totaled but if you have a little patience 
 it wont be a problem. Overall a great game and I would recommend it to any person even if they 
 arent usually into racing games I bet that they would still enjoy this game. Definitely try this 
 game out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lagerfeldt1974
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jun 24, 2007 3:06 pm PT
Review:  VISUALS
  The best in a racing game yet. Check out the first Japan stage! I actually parked my car and tried 
 to get out, walk down the pier and take a closer look at that windsurfer. Wow. Too much use of 
 HDR lighting though.
  
  AUDIO
  I like the overall energy and sound of the electronic title track but the rest of the music is 
 a hotch potch of bland rock'n'roll. Sound effects are average and surround sound is not up to par 
 as it is completely underused.
  
  GAMEPLAY
  Variety is great with everything from timed races, off roading, rally cross, etc. The sensation 
 of driving at high speeds and being in control of the vehicle is amazing. Each car truly drives 
 differently. The way difficulty levels are setup means you're never stuck but still have incentive 
 to continue if you find it too easy at lower levels.
  
  MY PERSONAL EXPERIENCE
  You usually know if a racing game is for you after about 15 minutes of play. Forza Motorsport was 
 definitely too boring for me but DiRT is the bee's knee. I instantly felt at home, and this will 
 be my game of choice for the next period of time.
  
  OVERALL
  Easily the best rally game out there. Better than Rallisport and the best in the Colin McRae series, 
 albeit DiRT is more of an arcade racer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: flippy1008
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 24, 2007 9:17 am PT
Review:  DiRT isnt really a racing game in the sense of Forza Motorsport. Forza Motorsport is mainly a track 
 competition around certain tracks, with certain cars and opponents. DiRT however is something different. 
 There are many race modes in the game which involve beating someones time to checkpoints etc. There 
 is only a couple of modes which you fight for the finish with a on screen oppenent. But its not 
 all that bad, because the races themselves provide power, mishaps and, well DiRT. The cars get 
 dirty and for every crash, something in the car goes wrong to a degree. The more dangerous a stunt, 
 the more damage will occur to the vehicle. But with that in mind, i noticed how simple the screens 
 are. In Forza you worry a lot about traction control, abs etc but in this game, you can leave the 
 hard stuff to the experts who create a basic car setup for the race anyway. You can edit certain 
 features without to much hassle, and it gives you a brief about each component for extra help. 
 The Career mode is structed so you work your way to the top, Tier 11 (Level 11 for UK citizens) . 
 The levels start from easy but within in the level, unlike most games, the challenges increase 
 in difficulty so even if you go on Rookie Tier 10, race 3, it is going to be really hard. Control 
 are another step. The steering is easy and generally you have automatic computer done for you, 
 gear changer. If, however, you opt for that final achievement, you can turn off automatic, and 
 do it yourself, even though it is a lot harder. I was playing DiRT for 1 hour and i got myself 
 150 points from playing in Career mode, and one race in Xbox Live. It is so easy to grab achievements 
 in this game, because they naturally come to you. When you are in challenges against other bodies 
 on screen, unlike Forza, you can see them move in more ways than a straight driven line. If you 
 knock them off, they knock you off, but it is easy to get back on the road again and beat their 
 heads together. I think overall this game is the best game ever, simple, but extreme gameplay. 
 Its in there, for &pound;40 odd 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ThaGrateOne
Rating: 7.2
Date: Aug 6, 2007 8:56 am PT
Review:  This is one of those games I should have waited on to see the review before I run out to buy. This 
 game has the potential of a great game. Visuals and sounds are up to PAR for a Next-Generation 
 game.... but someone forgot to tell the makers that MULI-PLAYER is next-gen. This game has entirely 
 to many single car uphill thin road events. The RALLY with several cars on the track at once is 
 excellent. The cars seem to have no weight to them and makes the controls not all that great. The 
 game has a good mode that last a little while. If this would have focused on MULTI-CAR events and 
 multi-player... this game could have been one of the best games of the year. Hopefully SEGA RALLY 
 REVO will make up for this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: L33tDEATH121
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jun 24, 2007 8:29 am PT
Review:  This is the newest edition from Colin McRae's rally racing mind, DIRT.
  
  I have to say, I was not disappointed with the graphics in this game. It looks great. The racing 
 is fun and exciting as well. There are several types of races you can compete in, including pure 
 rally, hill climb, and some truck series races. You also get to race against Colin McRae in most 
 of the races. The damage is realistic and the difficulty is adjustable for each race, but the lower 
 difficulty setting the less prize money you will get for winning the race. There are also TONS 
 of upgraded vehicles you can buy with your race winnings. This makes attempting those harder difficulty 
 settings a bit more do-able. All of these things makes this game really addictive, but with that 
 said, it does have it's issues.
  
  First, the steering seems a little floaty . It is like a slight lag when turning from one direction 
 to the other. Second, I would like to see more racing that involves other vehicles. It seems that 
 there are an awful lot of pure rally races, which is a timed checkpoint race. They can get a little 
 boring. Racing alone gets lonely after a while.
  
  Overall, it is a great rally type racing game. If you are a fan of either racing games or, more 
 specifically, Colin McRae games, you will really enjoy this latest edition. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: YankeeLegend510
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 24, 2007 8:12 am PT
Review:  I've been awaiting this game for months now and I must say I was super impressed with the realism. 
 In past Colin McRae games cars took a beating before breaking down, but now just the right hit 
 on a tree or rock can end your race.
  I know a lot of people don't like this upgrade in my opinion but for me it made the game more enjoyable. 
 The graphics look much better than what was advertised and the controls are easy to operate.
  
  If your a fan of rally racing or of the previous Colin McRae rally games then you should definitly 
 pick this up, I don't think you will be disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skipper847
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 24, 2007 3:48 am PT
Review:  I played the demo and thought. No i will keep my money but then decided to buy the game and im 
 glad i did. I prefer this to forza2 but at first i liked forza 2 better. The Graphics are just 
 as good as forza2 but not got that proper shine to it but they are still good. Damage effects are 
 better on Dirt its funny when your window screen smashes and the noise scares you. I play Dirt 
 with the 360 wheel and its amazing. You got to take breaks from it though as the vibrations are 
 abit strong :D
  
  But i would give this a 8.9 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sticman2
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 23, 2007 7:44 pm PT
Review:  Dirt is a damn fine racing game. normally i don't buy racing games, but this one is a keeper for 
 sure. has hours of play time in multiple different enviornments to race on. I really like how quick 
 it is to get going and you dont have to get really involve, ie gran tourismo, unless you want to. 
 also the load screens show your game stats. Dirt's game play is quite smooth, The crashes in this 
 game are stunning, but there is nothing like cleanly finishing a Track in Dirt. I kept finding 
 myself have the music playing in my head after I play this. One things that feels great is the 
 handling with just a regular xbox controller. Another thing that is pretty sweet is the control 
 of your cars mechanics.
  Overall if you like racing games, check it out, and if you don't like most racing games you may 
 find it to be surprisingly good game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DeanCorleone
Rating: 5.2
Date: Jun 23, 2007 7:05 pm PT
Review:  DIRT is a nice rally game, but I feel there are stronger driver sims out for the next gen consoles 
 right now. Forza 2 takes it hands down with over-all enjoyment. The damage system however on DIRT 
 is very nice, at which once you smack afew trees real hard you'll be dying to put it into slow-motion 
 and watch the replay. The online player modes are lacking, as they are time based trials - I know 
 alot of people already understand this, and that its really dangerous to have two people racing 
 on these small back roads at the same time but in the same sense, its a game and I'd enjoy tapping 
 someone into a tree. Either way the effects of the crashes are lovely... once you slam into a guard-rail 
 hard enough to make it move, thats a kool feeling. What was lacking was dirt, water, and mud effects 
 from the up-kick of the tires... the cars don't leave any real looking tracks of terrain they've 
 ran over, nor does the water look even close to real as you race down the street. You can fine 
 tune the cars, but as for upgrading them and so forth it lacks in that department as well. It really 
 is the next-gen in rally racing because it still does supply that feeling of man I'm really flying 
 down this road that I don't even know. , but it lacks in alot of areas.
  
  Either way it seems to be a decently polsihed, nicely WORKING game, as compaired to some of these 
 other rush games that companies have been pumping out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vanjamin
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 23, 2007 5:26 pm PT
Review:  Two reviewers actually gave this game a rating of 2? What game were they playing?? That's just 
 rediculous. Perhaps I smell a PS3, Motorstorm loving, fanboy? Graphics like the xbox? Yeah right! 
 Too much floating is enough to give the game a 2? Uhhh no. Isn't realistic enough like Forza 2? 
 Come on!
  
  What I love:
  
  This game has beautiful graphics... I can even tell this on a regular, old-school TV! There's just 
 so much detail with the cars and background and I like the damage system. You see all the damage 
 your vehicle takes if you keep crashing into cement walls!
  
  The single player mode is long-lasting, can be challenging if you pick the right difficulty, and 
 is loads of fun to try and beat. There are plenty of cars to try and unlock or buy.
  
  There are two options of pure racing against others or sort of a time-trial hill climbing where 
 you compete to get the best time at the finish line. Racing alone is fun, but the hill climb is 
 even better.
  
  The sound. I don't really pay attention to the music, but I like that they have your partner in 
 the car with you, telling you directions of when you'll need to turn, how much further before you 
 turn, which way to turn, and how sharp of a turn it'll be.
  
  What I like:
  
  You have, I believe, 4 different control options so you can choose which one you like best, and 
 that's not including use of the wheel.
  
  You have 4 different view options to choose from. I think they are: a view from behind, a more 
 zoomed out view from behind, a view from inside the car, a view from inside the car but just looking 
 out from the front windshield.
  
  There are five difficulty levels. Basically, there is very easy, easy, medium, hard, and hardest. 
 So far, I've only gone up to medium, but for me, that's already a challenge.
  
  Because of the 5 different difficulty levels, plenty of car options, and the option of racing or 
 hill climbing, there's a ton of replay value. You can start out on easy mode and keep playing again 
 on medium, then hard. And then choose different cars each time to feel the difference in handling 
 and speed.
  
  The menu is definitely next-gen, futuruistic looking and easy to scroll through and understand. 
 They show you all your career stats as you wait for the game to load. And they even add in voice-over 
 descriptions and direcetions for those who want to listen.
  
  What I feel is missing:
  
  Apparently a good online multiplayer, which I don't personally care too much for, but for others 
 I'll say it's important.
  
  An offline multiplayer. I love racing with a friend and there's just no option for that here, which 
 is too bad, but not that big a deal either.
  
  A heavier feel to the cars. I can see what GS said when they meant a floating-feel, but again that's 
 not a big deal either.
  
  All in all, this is a GREAT single player game that is different than the usual racing game because 
 you get to ride off-road in the dirt, on open-field courses through the mountains and hills rather 
 than through tracks or city streets. It's a bit of arcade and a bit of simulation. It's loads of 
 fun and worth playing even without a good multiplayer.
  
  Finally, if you truly want to enjoy this game, I suggest not trying to compare it to Forza 2. I 
 have that game and I love it just as much, but I have more fun with DiRT. They both offer different 
 things and are 2 different kinds of racers. Take advange of what each offers and have a blast racing 
 your heart out over and over and over! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CanadianGamer1
Rating: 8.6
Date: Aug 3, 2007 4:05 pm PT
Review:  Dirt the game is a rally racer with a spin. If you are a rally inthusiasit you will notice that 
 this game is different from the previous games in the collin series. In dirt you race through rugged 
 turrains in modes such as hill climb, corr, and multi car races. The two main highlights of this 
 game are the gaphics, and the revolutionary crash system. The graphics in the game are very comparible 
 to that of gears of war. The textures, lighting, and car models are just outstanding. However because 
 of this the games fram rate is a bit disapointing. In my oppinion this game is just as good if 
 not better then forza in the driving models. However there is not a custimization system in the 
 game compared to forza'a. All in all this game is at the same level as forza. You will have to 
 decide for yoursel if it is the right style of racer for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: t-mac720
Rating: 5.6
Date: Jun 23, 2007 8:46 am PT
Review:  this game was my first real racing game and i decided to stay with those crazy racing games like 
 burn out cause this game was so boring after the first couple 30 min its the same thing over and 
 over again but the only thing i dont get is why i keep playing soooo much of it. the game is boring 
 dont buy it dont listen to what these ppl are writing about how good the game is i bought because 
 of these ppl waisted my money but i will admit that it is addictive if u want a fun crazy rasing 
 game get burn out cause its sooo fun and exciting and its way better than this game... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jammer13
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jun 23, 2007 7:40 am PT
Review:  Dirt. I haven't played a rally game in a long time. This game is one that I have been waiting a 
 while for. If you ever had Need for Speed: V-Rally (PS1) , you know that was a great game (for its 
 time) . This game has a lot of potential with the 360's capabilities, so if you have your hopes 
 high, maybe you should rent it first.
  GRAPHICS
  The graphics in Dirt are truly amazing. From the little rocks on the ground to the broken windshield 
 on your car, this is where Dirt really shines. I like the accumulation of dirt on the car as you 
 go, that's a nice touch.
  SOUND
  The sound is okay for a racing game, could be better. Not much to say about it.
  GAMEPLAY
  
 The gameplay is good, a little touchy, but solid. Different road surfaces affect how the car handles, 
 as it would be in real life. It's pretty typical for a racing game. I would like if the damage 
 actually affected the handling of the car. For example, my engine has been damaged, say, 50% wouldn't 
 I have a harder time accelerating? Nope, not here. It just says it's damaged when there is really 
 not a noticable effect, if any at all. Still, this game plays nicely enough.
  VALUE
  This game is worth it's time with a deep career mode, however, once you have completed the game, 
 what now? There's not even a two player mode on the same system, you have to have Xbox Live or 
 system link. They need more multiplayer modes and options. The limited multiplayer is a let down 
 for a rally game.
  FINAL WORD
  Dirt is worth its money, if you look in the right places. I would suggest renting it first or wait 
 unitl prices drop a bit. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dirty55409
Rating: 6.3
Date: Jun 22, 2007 11:31 pm PT
Review:  The game is beautiful for sure. I have enjoyed all 2 hours of it that I've played. But besides 
 the various vehicles you can drive nothing makes this stand out from the rest for me. I've played 
 everything from Gran Turismo 4 to Need For Speed: Hot Pursuit 2 and games like Forza Motorsport 
 2 and Project Gotham, Test Drive Unlimited (gag) , Midnight Club Racer, all sorts of racing games 
 are in my collection, the point is Dirt may fill in the Off Road gap but for $60 it's not going 
 to be more than a rental. Dang why couldn't they put rally racing into Forza 2 and make it look 
 as beautiful as this game!?!? Oh well, aside from the beauty of the game the audio is a joke in 
 my opinion. The engines may all sound different but they all sound incredibly anemic and they don't 
 add to the realism for me. When I choose an outside racing view I don't want to hear the engine 
 blasting me in the face, I only want that if I'm in cockpit view. Another qualm with the audio 
 is the idiotic voice of Pastrana or whatever his name is. He is a terrible rally driver in real 
 life (go look at his last wreck) and he is an even worse narrator. If this was a rally sim it would've 
 been more realistic instead of having such a tight highly unrealistic feel to it.
  
  The games not hard to pick up but it may get more challenging in the long run, I'll never find 
 out because I won't be playing this for very long. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: soulreaper93
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jun 22, 2007 8:43 pm PT
Review:  This is a really AMAZING game. The graphics are great, the realism is extreme, wow its amazing. 
 The sound is really good too, and the gameplay works pretty well. The game is a little short, where 
 you can get all the achievements in under 10 hours. The A. I. is a little weird. On amateur it is 
 very easy, but then you turn it up to pro am and it suddenly becomes much harder. The worst part 
 is that they completely screwed up the multiplayer. I was expecting to do buggy races with other 
 people, but all you can do is rally and hill climb where you cant even see the other players. The 
 game doesent even have a split screen (as far as I know) and it should have.
  
  However, the great game overall makes me forget about an almost complete lack of xbox live multiplayer. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: insane_metalist
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jun 22, 2007 7:28 pm PT
Review:  DiRT has a really singke player mode but online isn't that great. Xbox live on it isn't so great 
 because you can't talk to people over mic. The only way you can communicate with people is by sending 
 a Chat Text option. You can't see your opponents when you play on xbox live. You can only see which 
 place you are in. It has fun controlls but sometimes it can be hard to control your car. There 
 are alot of different cars. Graphics are great and the gameplay is lots of fun! I would say this 
 game has career mode better then its online multiplayer. Achievements are pretty easy and fun to 
 get unless you're playing on the hardest difficulty. Overall i would say it's a great game but 
 it's not very long. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: plantedchaos
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jun 22, 2007 7:10 pm PT
Review:  DiRT is a rally sport game from the makers of Coin'MC Rally. In DiRT you race different classifications 
 of cars on a wide variety of terrain and events. You can pick from rally cars, Trophy trucks, FWD, 
 RWD, AWD, Dune buggy's, Semi-Trucks, and more! Such events as hill climb, cross over, point-to-point, 
 circuit, ect. the high point of DiRT is its amazng crash detail. Your car can be wrecked in many 
 different ways, loosing all your parts in the prosses. But as you damage your car, your internal 
 parts (engine, drivetrain) will be damaged and your car will preform much slower. Overal DiRT is 
 a great game. I highly recommend it to anyone who likes driving/rally games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mars188
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 22, 2007 4:08 pm PT
Review:  i am not much in to racing games but i like to play new games and see if things has changed with 
 the sport, in my view they have never made great racing game, i love driving cars , but they never 
 get it down right the game s end up boring, true the cars take damge but it still looks cheap i 
 dont see roll offs and cars just total out and fires, the game just starts over with your car looking 
 damage, how about if the race just ends for you and the car wiped out, i dont see it, and this 
 guy that rides with you and talks through out the race that gets old, half the time it sounds like 
 he is just yamming on, the game feels kind of stiff like most race games, the game looks great 
 lot to the game, but for me it ends up just boring, i dont think they can make a great all a round 
 racing game that has it all and comes off smooth and real, i would not buy it good rent game, i 
 would buy forza motorsport and even that one has its troubles but it is fun, thanks 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eljefe91199
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jun 22, 2007 10:26 am PT
Review:  The only big downside of this game is non-existence of multiplayer. Sure I can go online and race 
 people all over the world but what about when friends come over??? Hey! lets see who can get the 
 fastest time..... not that fun. Other than that every part of this game is amazing from graphics 
 to sound to the excitement of the race. The greatest part is the helmet cam.... feels like you're 
 right in the seat. I also own Forza and compared to Dirt it's very very boring. Buy this game, 
 rent it or play the demo either way you will enjoy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jannuh
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 22, 2007 2:27 am PT
Review:  Great game, especially the different cars and kind of tracks are very cool.
  The controlls are very natural, realistic and very easy to learn. The walk trough is very good 
 to do. The graphics are awesome and very realistic.
  The game includes six different racing disciplines, which consist of rally, rallycross, hillclimb, 
 CORR, crossover, and rally raid varieties. As a graphical showpiece, DiRT is an unbridled success. 
 It also happens to be an entirely enjoyable rally racer.
  Few games have ever displayed such dynamic damage modelling. DiRT is a class act, and it definitely 
 belongs in any racing fan's library
  The best Collin so far.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: verstft
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jun 22, 2007 1:10 am PT
Review:  Either this get's an eleven for graphics... or forza2 gets a seven.
  
  Amazing what lighting can do for REALISM. This game might be more arcade oriented that forza, but 
 make no mistake, this game LOOKS a million times more real than the plastic cars and lifeless environments 
 in Forza2. Sound is quite good and give each car a different feel.
  Interface is simply the best to date out of any game.
  Collision dammage is top notch.
  Absolutely 
 positively most beautifull tracks and environment. Say goodbye to green texture maps, say hello 
 to fully render grass strands wayving in the wind and bushes.... yes I took a few trips off-track 
 because I was so aw struck by the detail in the environment.
  
  Framerate does dive once in while. Seems to be more of an optimization issue.
  
  Three thumbs 
 up... any racer's dream. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: foukas7
Rating: 2
Date: Jun 21, 2007 11:02 pm PT
Review:  A disapointing try to make a game like motorstorm of PS3. It's so simple in graphics and so rediculus 
 in gameplay that you are going to cry for every dollar/euro that you have paid fot it! Only the 
 sound is something that i like in the game! I play videogames since 1990 like a maniac and colin 
 mcraes rally games were some of my favourites but this is the WORST rally game EVER!!! I cant believe 
 that it took them so long to make a game like this! And just because PS3 with motorstorm made a 
 difference in dirt rally games, microsoft had to make something similar but they crashed and burned! 
 Cheep job! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: truevar
Rating: 2
Date: Jun 21, 2007 10:37 pm PT
Review:  Dirt, the new Colin McRae game is the biggest piece of dirt to ever come out codemasters.
  
  Colin McRae 4 was the best in the series in my opinnion. If you like realism in a racing game... THIS 
 IS NOT THE GAME FOR YOU!
  What kind of retarded physics does this game have. The cars float like they weigh 5 pounds. The 
 steering response is faster then a remote control car. The stages suffer from bad lightning and 
 shadows... For the love of god..... the dirt track shines more then the paint job on the car!!! 
 wtf is that!!
  
  Omg they really messed this game up.. THEY may just wanna rename this Pro Race Driver (The arcade 
 dirt version) This is the biggest disappointment that I have had in any racing game.
  
  Plz do not buy this game if your a true fan of hardcore rally games. Leave this game for the kids.
 
  
  This game is the opposite of immersive! Ill play Colin McRae 4 on Xbox over this anyday. And if 
 I wanted a good arcade rally game... Rallisport Challenge wins that easily... Also Rallisport Challenge 
 could be considered a simulation comapared to this.
  
  IT IS NOT EVEN FUN ARACADE....
  ITS JUST BORRING..
  
  This game makes Need for Speed Most wanted look like a simulation.
 
  
  If you think this game is simulation r even close 2 it.... u need help.
  
  Forza 2 is the closest thing we have on the xbox360 as a simulation and that i like alot.
  
 
  As far as sims go.... F1 99-02 season on the PC is best sim of all time and currently fethes over 
 $100 per cd on ebay bacause of its rarity 
::::::

::::::
UserName: masterx1059
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jun 23, 2007 8:07 pm PT
Review:  Wow! I don't think I've ever beem this blown away by a game's graphics and presentation. Forget 
 Gears of War, Dirt has my vote for best graphics on the 360. I mean, it is STUNNING! Oh, yeah, 
 the game itself is awesome fun, too. I'm not a huge racing fan, but I just love the whole setup 
 and playability. You just feel like your playing a quality game when you play Dirt. Now, I not 
 a multi-player gamer, so I can't comment on that aspect. But this game is the most outstanding 
 racer I have ever played. It is simply a great game. Oh, by the way, noone seems to be making negative 
 comments about next-gen graphics now. Do yourself a favor and bury your PS2. I have never had this 
 much fun with a racer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jonjonsilver
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 21, 2007 6:13 pm PT
Review:  Let's start out with the graphics. It is one of the best looking games for the 360. I would put 
 it #3 on best looking 360 games with Gears of War of course being #1. It is so fun ruining your 
 car and I love running right into the rail. The rails get nailed and your car leaves one massive 
 friggin dent in the rails. It never gets old. Driving into the rails is pretty much as fun as chainsawing 
 locusts in Gears of War. I didn't see any major problems with the frame. Just very small ones.
 
  
  The sound was amazing. The engine and crashing sound effects blew me away. I only played the demo 
 but I really want to get the game. If you are a fan of racing or if you just want to have some 
 fun then you need to buy this game now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tennisacerg
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 21, 2007 3:38 pm PT
Review:  First off, the career mode looks like it will take a great deal of time, which is what I look for 
 in a game. There are about a dozen tiers in a pyramid shape, which you progress higher and higher 
 as the game goes on. The gameplay is great. Surface affects driving sensitivity. The sound is alright, 
 but sometimes it sounds like a jet engine at an airport. Graphics are spectacular and the crashing 
 is pretty. Online is very fun, comparing your skills to everyone else in the world in the leaderboards. 
 A great game to pick up for every XBOX 360 owner! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jeffr1124
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jun 21, 2007 2:18 pm PT
Review:  Only huge bummer for me was not being able to have multiplayer rally races in my home with friends. 
 To do multiplayer it requires xbox live or system link. So much for playing vids with your friends 
 in person. This seems to be a trend with many games in the sports arena.
  
  This game is setup for alternating play and it was a feature I really enjoyed in earlier versions. 
 Unfortunately in this version. I picked up the game. Went down to the basement with 3 other friends 
 ready to take turns behind the wheel as we raced against each other based on the clock. Only to 
 find out first thing that we weren't able to do that. Unfortunately the people who want to play 
 with me don't have a 360 or a wheel and driving set up at home. So they can't go home and meet 
 me online. I love the online capability, but really think it is a big miss to not allows us to 
 do it in a social setting together. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: twolegsbad
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 25, 2008 2:44 pm PT
Review:  I really did almost cry when McRae '05 wasn't BC. Rally Sport Challenge 2 was excellent, but McRae 
 '05 was slightly better and deserves the often misplaced crown of best original XBox racer. But 
 apparently Codemasters knew this, they knew CM'05 was so good that it might stunt sales of a new 
 McRae game, so they only let CM4 go backwards compatible and kept '05 from making the system transition. 
 Well, it is all okay now. We're lucky that DiRT was the first rally racer out on the 360, and we 
 didn't have to wait to far into the 360 life cycle (like we will have to wait forever for a good 
 BMXer) . DiRT's being first to market saved me from having to buy lesser rally racers as I waited, 
 or deal with people being distracted by shallow pretenders like Motorstorm.
  
  So, the bottom line is this: DiRT is frickin' fun. The fun factor is the number one under-represented 
 game characteristic in 99% of game reviews. For example, TDU scores a 10 on fun factor as asphalt 
 racers go (oh how I wish it had dirt races... well there is always next time) . But TDU got raped 
 in the reviews because of other issues and those poor gamers that require technical perfection 
 missed out on one of the most fun racers ever. And then take Forza 2 as another example. Great 
 sim, and I would have actually bought it instead of just rented it if it had only had a few rally 
 stages like Gran Turismo, so I guess I will have to wait for a proper and complete sim experience 
 before I can really get my asphalt sim on. Anyway, Forza had great technical reviews, so everyone 
 buys it up like little sheep waiting to follow what Gamestop says is "good", but its fun factor 
 was reduced by its limited scope. (Yes, limited - you can do all heck with the cars, but as the 
 game goes what can you do? Limited.)
  
  So on to DiRT (i. e. McRae 6) . Big points for fun factor. The multiple oponent races - like Rally 
 Raid - are a huge, HUGE addition and improvement. And, as Gamestop said - a tease. A huge, HUGE 
 flaw is the absence of any real multiplayer. And local multiplayer too - more people would experience 
 games if friends without systems could get a taste of good multiplayer at a gamers house. Local 
 multiplayer might have required some sacrifices, but the multiplayer as is is sadly inadequate. 
 And Codemasters KNEW this sucked. They knew, and they published without multiplayer anyway. Don't 
 buy that crap about how Codemasters thought the "100 player" multiplayer was sooo cool. BS, those 
 are marketing lines. The multiplayer is crap and they knew it. Maybe they left it off to be faster 
 to market, or leave room for an easy game improvement next time, but it stinks.
  
  Anyway, I won't bore you with what everyone knows: graphics are sweet, racing is about as fun as 
 it gets, rally events are in tact, new race types are nice, sounds are great, blah blah. What you 
 need to know is this: THIS IS ONE OF THE MOST FUN RACERS EVER. BUY IT.
  
  The high point of the game for me is the Rally Raid events. These events have it all: rally style 
 off road racing, multiple oponents, and you even get to keep your co-driver. Litterally, rally 
 raid is better than better-than-sex chocolate cake.
  
  So here are the flaws of this supreme racer, for those of you who want to know what keeps the game 
 from perfection: sucky multiplayer, no local multiplayer, and you can't stray too far off track. 
 By that last one I mean that, when I crash into a river, I want to see the crash - not automatically 
 be reset - I want to choose reset from the pause menu, not mish my awesome wreck! And I want to 
 take seriously damaging alternate routes. Oh, and one other flaw, that really might not be worth 
 mentioning, but it bugged me - what happened to tire choice? That was a major part of past games 
 and really let you improve and screw up your handling. The new options more than make up for this, 
 but figuring out tire choice was simple yet fulfilling. And a free swinging right analog stick 
 camera in all view modes would have been nice.
  
  I don't think the long load times are a negative. They stay out of the way and they are a price 
 I am more than willing to pay for a sweet experience. If you can't handle load times, download 
 Rally X.
  
  And yes, the menus are the best menus ever to be graced by a video game. Crazy, but they accomplish 
 what menus never accomplish: they actually add to the game instead of just staying out of the way 
 or even detracting from it.
  
  And, for reading my review here is your free tip on how to make fat cash in the game. Always race 
 each of the difficulties in each race, starting from the easiest. This does multiple things: it 
 lets you make money while you practice and learn the track (instead of actually doing practice 
 runs) in preparation to win at the higher difficulty settings. How does this make you money, which 
 you need to buy cars? Well, when you win a race the game drastically slashes the money you can 
 make by running that race again at that same difficulty. This way you don't just run easy over 
 and over to make money. The problem is, when you when at a given difficulty, not only the winnings 
 for that difficulty, but also for all lower difficulties, are slashed. Higher difficulty winnings 
 are not effected. So, win the fat cash available at the lower difficulties first, then move on 
 up. This way you make money for your practice runs, and you don't waste all that available capital.
 
  
  Lastly, thank you Codemasters for this whole series! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yandor
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 21, 2007 9:04 pm PT
Review:  Do you like good-news/bad-news scenarios? Well DiRT is just such a thing. I'll give the bad news 
 right up front. Have you been dying for a game that let's you race buggies and trucks with your 
 friends on Xbox Live or even system link and split screen? Then here's the bad news. DiRT doesn't 
 have it. Just as Gamespot says in their review, it is almost unforgivable to strip away the very 
 thing that ANY racing game should have: multiplayer for every part of the game. Sure, you can Hill 
 Climb and Crossover on Xbox Live, but it's implemented very poorly. It's very disappointing to 
 have what is truly the best racing game on the market and not be able to smash around the tracks 
 in a buggy with your friends, let alone do an actual rally. Shameful.
  Okay, that's the bad news. And thankfully, that's the only bad news, despite how bad it is.
  
 The good news is, this game is absolutely stunning in every other facet. Graphically, there is 
 nothing better in racing. Forza 2 has the cars down just right, but sacrificed high quality environments 
 for car appearance (which is not saying Forza 2 is bad at all) . DiRT goes the extra mile and gives 
 us a racer that is pure sugary-sweet eye-candy. I own a flat panel HD television, so my review 
 may be biased, but the visuals can't help but astound. The dirt and dust that coats your car as 
 it plows along the tracks is a work of art. The damage effects are not only life-like, they are 
 so much fun to see, you may intentionally crash just to see how many different ways you can smash 
 up your ride. There are no pre-scripted animations here. Each crash is all its own, and each is 
 as beautiful to see as the rocks, fences, trees, water, other vehicles, or whatever you can find 
 to slam into are. The sheer amount of diversity in the tracks is breathtaking. Grass and trees 
 come alive as you go off the track and spin your wheels. Water splashes like it should, and the 
 dirt . . . dirt goes everywhere! The vehicle types are abundant. Just when you think you've raced 
 just about anything you can think of, you'll find yourself trying to haul a Semi up a twisted rock-strewn 
 hill. And the buggies! You won't find any more fun than trying to catch air with these babies. 
 Try racing these while in Helmet-Cam mode. A rush to say the least. The AI are incredible as well 
 - they drive smart, and fight just as hard as you do. Some say the controls are a little aracady 
 , and I'll agree to some extent, but there is a decent amount of tuning you can do to give it some 
 simulation-like feel. It's not as responsive as Forza 2, but that's not the point here. Sure, keeping 
 your ride in peak shape is crucial in Career mode (which is fun as hell) , but it's not as in-depth 
 as Forza 2. All-in-all, DiRT is the most impressive racer on the market, and with Forza 2 out there, 
 that's saying a lot. This would have gotten a 10 if it'd done multiplayer right, but the fun is 
 still here, and with a friend in the room, you can take turns trying beat each other's time. Rent 
 if you must, but I'll bet you'll end up buying. DiRT is that good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marcod1
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jun 21, 2007 4:25 am PT
Review:  DIRT, what can i say that hasen't already been said except that it is perfect.
  
  This game takes no prisoners in the racing genre, with its pulse-pounding races, it's expertly 
 configured interface and sleek graphincs. Once i popped this game in my crack box and started in 
 carer mode a revelation occured to me I am witnessing what Next-Gen is really about . Don't get 
 me wrong, Next Gen has been touted and teasing us with titles such as Oblivion, GOW, etc. but this 
 game has really defined what Next-Gen is really what it's about and what a perfect way too usher 
 us into the next wave of games.
  
  DIRT blows the lid off the racing genre. The career mode is enormous and challenging, the amount 
 of vehicles are just right, the graphics are as close to perfection as you will see, the in-the-driver-seat 
 view feels and looks like you are actually in the vehicle .... a first in my opinion... The online 
 mode is awesome as it takes only 15 seconds to join an online race with a just one more play style 
 that will keep you playing into the morning hours.
  
  I have all the racing games and i love them, but, there is always something gnawing at me as i 
 find myself getting bored very quickly and just can't put my finger on why that is. DIRT comes 
 along and answers all my doubts about gaming in the 21st century.
  
  Bottom Line, This will be a classic in the years to come. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LegendofYaslint
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jun 20, 2007 8:32 pm PT
Review:  First off, Dirt looks gorgeous. I have seldom had as much fun simply watching replays just to take 
 in the detail of the levels and lighting. The only flaw in the looks department is that the game's 
 frame rate can sometimes stutter a bit when getting too busy. This does not happen often and is 
 an easy thing to forgive given how amazing this game looks. The cockpit view is also a joy to view.
 
  
  So how is the gameplay? If you liked Rallisport Challenge 2 then you will most likely enjoy Dirt 
 b/c the games are both arcade rally games with a similar feel. Dirt doesn't give as much weight 
 to some of the vehicles as RSC2 did, but the gameplay is similar enough for a comparison. Dirt 
 isn't perfect, but it still handles well enough to make it a very fun and lasting arcade racing 
 experience. The damage system also works quite well and is really fun to experience on harder settings.
 
  
  Sound is pretty good as well and the feedback wheel, while not handling great even after playing 
 with the settings has an amazing rumble effect throughout the races. It's worth a try just for 
 how great the force feedback and rumble feel while driving, even if the poor handling is a tad 
 annoying. Try the hood cam for the best results using the wheel. Worked best for me at least.
 
  
  The online is pretty barebones and nothing to write home about. This is the area that is a huge 
 tease, as I can only imagine how much fun some of the CORR events would be online crashing all 
 around. Too bad, maybe in Dirt 2?
  
  The career is pretty deep and you get a good amount of options throughout. I can easily see myself 
 putting in over 100 hours into this game, and that alone makes it easy to recommend in my book. 
 So if you like arcade racers with a good feel and enjoy tearing nice cars through the dirt in gorgeous 
 settings then Dirt has a lot to offer you.
  
  Just don't buy it for the online portion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -DwD-WasTed
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 20, 2007 2:21 pm PT
Review:  The demo from market place got me HOOKED, and the voice at the close of the Demo was not wrong 
 when he said, See you in the game . Anyone who plays the demo will get this game, so try it its 
 free.
  
  The graphics in this game are simply stunning whether you are doing 30, 60, 80 or 120mph the graphics 
 deliver, more so becuase you feel the speed, you feel the car and you feel the DiRT.
  
  The MS Wireless Steering wheel is a must for this game, It helps your drive the way you want to 
 and completes the experiance. The wheel was made with the DiRT in mind.
  
  I'm not the best at racing games, but this game accounts for all levels and you can play to your 
 capability. And you can improve! The cars are great and the tracks demanding.
  
  The experiance is so real you do ease up of the peddal in fear of crashing, and that in its self 
 is amazing. You can watch your Smash back on the replay; in all its splender, the camera angles 
 and flow is brilliant and you find your self watching replays becuase it shows off your driving, 
 and your mistakes.
  
  It Belongs in your collection if you like driving games and even if you dont, its a top 10 360 
 game. A must have.
  
  Have Fun
  
  Ted 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jackal520
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 20, 2007 10:30 am PT
Review:  DiRT is one of those games that at first glance you wont be able to forget about. The environment 
 graphics, car models, and damage physics and just jaw dropping good. There are a few minor problems 
 in the game but nothing that wouldnt make you not love it, one of the minor problems is that on 
 a race with multiple cars the frame rate tends to dip but only for a little while other than that 
 i have no complaints. The career mode for DiRT is one that will keep you busy for a long time (you 
 can sort of compare it to Forza's career) it has you going up a huge pyramid of levels known as 
 tiers and in a tier are certain events that have to be completed to move on up the tiers. There 
 are many possibilities with this game and it will have you coming back to play it for sure even 
 after you beat the career mode and the world rally and the CORR modes. There are 46 cars in DiRT 
 which may sound like a small amount but it is pretty good for an off road racer with the amazing 
 graphics like this game. Now for the only disappointment with this game is multi-player. Multi-player 
 in DiRT consists of pretty much time trials when you cant actually see the cars youre racing against 
 but you must get from point A to point B before they do which is a real let down considering the 
 amount of potention this game has. Other than that DiRT is a game that will keep you busy for a 
 long time and it will appeal to all fans of racing sims and arcade racers enjoy the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: the_mighty_boos
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 20, 2007 3:52 am PT
Review:  What a great looking game. Seriously, this is probably the second best looking game i have seen 
 on the 360, next to gears of war. The cars are well modelled, the dirt/gravel/tarmac all looks 
 realistic as you fly past and the environments are all quite distracting. Luckily for us, the gameplay 
 is pretty sweet too. With 46 cars to buy or unlock, 6 different game modes, a very lengthy career 
 mode to complete, with 5 different difficulties, and numerous championships to win, CM Dirt should 
 last you a pretty good time. The only disappointing game mode is the multiplayer aspect, with no 
 split screen and a basic online mode. But for offline gameplay, CM Dirt certainly delivers. The 
 cars dont handle entirely realisticly, but what it loses in realism it makes up for with fun. The 
 driving is always fast and frantic. Whether your'e speeding along narrow lanes in Germany with 
 an Evo IX or smashing your way to victory in the USA with a big rig truck, the handling is always 
 varied and good fun. The way your vehicle smashes and bends always looks amazing, and you can total 
 your cars if youre not careful. Overall, CM Dirt may not be for everyone, but unless youre a real 
 rally enthusiast who thrives on realism, you should get a lot of fun out of this game.
  
  The Good - Superb and realistic graphics - Lots to do offline - Lovely menus - Pure and raw racing 
 fun
  
  The Bad - Not very realistic - No snow or rain tracks - Travis Pastrana grates - Lame online mode 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fearmackan
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 20, 2007 8:34 am PT
Review:  The most beutiful racing game ever.....
  But maybe it's not so fun like ... Motorstorm!!!
  The most beutiful racing game, but not so fun like Motorstorm!!!!! 
  The menu and the car select 
 it's so owesome.... when you play you open your mouth and just look at the car on the screen.
  THE GRAPHIC AND PHISICS IS AWESOME......
  I have only played the demo but im sure that it will 
 be exactly so great the demo is or better!!!!!!!
  
  THE TRAILER ON DIRT ITS NO FAKE THE GRAPHIC AND PHYSICS ITS EXACTLY THE SAME AS IN GAME!!!!!!
 
  
  GRAPHICS AND PHYSICS = 10.0 , PERFECT!!!!!
  THE GAMEPLAY = 8.0 , VERY GOOD!!!!!!
  
  // NOW I HAVE PLAYED THE GAME AND ALL IS PERFECT LOVE IT!!!!!!
  
  10/10!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: devilbuster
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jun 19, 2007 2:07 pm PT
Review:  DiRT is a truly outstanding racing game. With its rich gameplay, amazing graphics, and joyful moments, 
 it deserves to be one of the best racing games to date.
  
  If you like hardcore racing and you definitely get mad if you lose a race, DiRT is your answer. 
 The game isn't easy, and it requires some true rally lovers. DiRT is a bit long for a racing game, 
 and that's one thing I love about it. I'm only 30% done in Career Mode, and so far I'm speechless! 
 Never been so much entertained playing a racing game.
  
  DiRT is one cool experience that any rally fan should try, because it puts you in real challenge 
 just like if you were racing in real life. It's one of the best racing games on the 360, and will 
 remain one of the best for a while to come.
  
  Get DiRT! You won't be disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gizmyle
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 19, 2007 11:14 am PT
Review:  I really just stumbled over this game when I bought it yesterday. I planned on buying other games, 
 but for a special reason, I weren't allowed to buy them. So I had the choice between this and Forza 
 2. Since I knew my father was going to buy Forza 2, I chose DiRT. Also, I prefer dirtracing instead 
 of racing on tracks. Now, on to the review. I haven't played very much into this yet, I have barely 
 finished Tier 1, and will soon move on to Tier 2. Also, I haven't gone over Clubman difficulty 
 yet. And so far, I've played about 2 hours. And there are SO many hours left.
  
  One thing you'll notice are stunningly well graphics. While the persons, when seen inside the cars 
 after/before races, aren't to good, the cars and animation is amazing. The cars could go for real 
 any time, and they help a lot on the gaming experience from this game.
  
  Also, you'll have so many choices it'll be hard to decide what to do. Not only are there careers 
 and races, but you'll also be able to play online agains multiple real players. Which I've personaly 
 stayed away from so far, gotta get used to the game first :P
  
  I haven't tried the game for other platforms yet, but I'm sure that the X360 game will be the best 
 of them all. In addition to being able to choose multiple tracks, and I'm talking a LOT of different 
 tracks, you'll be able to buy cars with the money you earn from races. The amount you earn differ 
 from difficulty level and tracks you race. Also, you can buy different looks for every car you 
 buy.
  
  There are also plenty of achievements for those that want points and 'medals' for your gamercard. 
 So yes, I recommend this game. It's a great time waster, and will probably last for at least 50 
 hours of fun. And that's just the careers and races. After that, you'll have some achievements 
 and online races to play.
  
  Good luck, and have fun to all those that decide to buy this ;) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SamuelpukMM
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 19, 2007 9:53 am PT
Review:  First of all, a few bad points. There is virtually 75% time trails. you need to be buying new cars 
 constantly. You cant have fulkl damage and easy AI- both or none. And it is HARD. Seriosuly, the 
 lerarnign curve is steep and it is manic. but, once you get into it, it is truly enjoyable. The 
 hardness gives challenge, as you have to perfect cornering techniques etc. With a wireless wheel 
 it is MUCH better. Its fun, furious and the money rewards are staggering. but rewards are a biut 
 nil- you have to buy just about everything... only on cars though. the career progresses well. its, 
 in one pagage, brilliant. Just tread carefully- your not an expert straight away 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Uthrak
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jun 22, 2007 1:11 am PT
Review:  I didn't use to like driving games until i played DIRT !At first i didn't like it very much i thought 
 it was very difficult. But then i played again and again and in 20 min i started controlling the 
 car. It's the most exiting racing game you are ever going to play you have agony every second that 
 passes! It has many different modes, races and cars to keep you interested for a loooong time. The 
 camera is excellent, the graphics remarkable and the sound couldn't be more realistic but what makes 
 this game great is the outstanding handling of the cars!! In my opinion this game is perfect and 
 even if you don't like racing games very much (like me) you are going to like this one!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: villealajarvi
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jun 20, 2007 2:30 pm PT
Review:  I've waited this for so long, and now when its out and running i must say im not disappointed at 
 all. From the first start to finish, its just so much fun. Driving dynamics are exellent and the 
 vechiles have the feel of mass when you drive, step aside motorstorm the new king is here.. Ok maybe 
 the cars are a little floaty, but i think thats just a big PLUS really. Rally raid especially made 
 me enjoy every time ;D Music is OK, sounds are OK enough for me. The games presentation is deffinetly 
 next-gen, nothing to complain about. The games FPS drops at start (multiple car races) , but when 
 driving on the top 3 its smooth. Nobody drives behind all cars anyway. I didnt notice any (single 
 race/rally) fps drops at all !? If i must find something to complain about, the car customization 
 could be more complex.. But thats not a big deal. The multiplayer options could have been more 
 complex, but it was still fun to watch the positions all the time when racing. Fun for every penny.. thats 
 it.. Everybody ho owns a X360 or PS3, i command you all to buy this game and enjoy. Oh and with 
 MS racing wheel the result is deffinetly even better ! (8.3 gamespot.. shame on you) Maybe GS should 
 hire a new review crew. (just a one mans free oppinion) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spider254
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 18, 2007 3:53 pm PT
Review:  This game is so good, there is so much variety in different race types, not just bog standard rallying. 
 There loads of vehicles and the online mode is great. Deffinatly worth picking up if your a rally 
 fan! The career mode is massive and once your finished there you can compete in the Championships 
 etc... The achievments are great and are a nice variety. The graphics in this game again are amazing, 
 there just so detailed and the environmental physics are outstanding. The menu system is very unique 
 and adds a nice touch to the whole presentation of the game.
  To conclude this game well lives up to the hype and its a true MASTERPIECE, which could probably 
 go down as one of the best Colin Games! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tonixjade
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 18, 2007 9:14 pm PT
Review:  The new installment totally breaks away from previous Colin Mcrae games, but this doesnt necessarily 
 spoil the experience. With the inclusion of the buggy/truck and various other types of races there 
 is quite a nice variety to the gameplay. The graphics are excellent especially when using the dashboard 
 view and are only let down by the occasional tearing and frame rate drop which can be forgiven 
 when the game is running so fast.
  On the negative side the multiplayer is a huge let down only letting you play online in the rally 
 and hill climb events with noone else on the track (you can see your opponents times) . If they 
 had included a proper 8 car multiplayer in the rallycross and buggy races this would have been 
 a fantastic game.
  Overall though this is a very enjoyable arcade racing game and definateley one of the fastest and 
 adrenaline pumping racers ive played. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: English_Death
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 16, 2007 12:31 pm PT
Review:  Dirt... The name does the game no justice at all if you ask me.
  
  Yet another stunning game out on the 360. Quite simply it looks fantastic. As good as if not better 
 than motorstrom. The cars have some great damage routines. You actually see bits falling off. The 
 windscreen cracks and breaks differently each time. Small detail but works well. The veiws to drive 
 from are excellent, The standard external view of the car, internal over the nose of the car and 
 2 from the drivers point of view. On replay theres other veiws that add to the atmosphere.
  
  On the subject of replay. Replays have a great slow mo button that works superbly, really adds 
 to the thrill of the replay.
  
  The driving is as good as Forza, PGR. Multiplayer is a bit different as you dont directly race 
 the others, its more on times.
  
  One very unique thing about it, is the menu interface. Its a revalation, a real joy to look at 
 and use.
  
  This game is a must for a 360 collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dark_Dude_98
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 16, 2007 10:24 am PT
Review:  This game was released at a horrid time on the 360, just a week after Forza 2. Not only did the 
 retail game have to compete with it, so did the demo on Xbox Live Marketplace. I had a choice between 
 both of them and from the demos alone I picked DiRT and do not regret it.
  
  It's been two years since the last Colin McRae game and this one builds on what made the last one 
 so great and adds to it. With a total of 6 different race types from the traditional Rally to hill 
 climbs each offering something different. The variety of all the different types is great, in each 
 event type they are split up into different classes big rig hill climbs for example which will 
 mean that to master this game you'll not only have to be good on DiRT but just about every other 
 surface there is!
  
  The main part of the game will be in Career mode where you start your off road racing adventure. 
 There are multiple tiers and you start all the way down the bottom. You select each race and what 
 difficulty you want to play on it, then you can select your car out of a few that are available 
 for that track. As you progress through the game you'll be awarded money to buy new cars and liveries 
 for the cars you already own. With over 40 different cars in the game and about 170 liveries you'll 
 be spending a long time to go all the way through the career mode. Career mode will take somewhere 
 around 10 hours to play through just getting to the end but there's plenty of replay value going 
 back through the game on a higher difficulty to get more money to buy the rest of the cars and 
 liveries so you can get achievements!
  
  Other than Career there are two other single player modes: Rally championship which is the classic 
 mode you'll find in previous Colin McRae games and Rally World which is your exhibition mode.
 
  
  There is an online mode in DiRT however it's not what you'd expect from a racing game, you don't 
 actually race against the other cars in the sense that you're all on the same piece of tarmac at 
 the same time. Instead you all start at the same time but you don't see anyone else, first one 
 to the end wins. You have two race types for online; Rally and Hill Climb. What having no other 
 cars on the screen does is enable 100 player multiplayer which would be impossible to do otherwise. 
 The online interface is brilliant, you can pick a player, ranked or private game and it puts you 
 in a room. Usually another race will be going on and you can follow how it's going. In the mean 
 time ~8 random races will be up for vote and whichever gets the most wins! After you're done voting 
 for the track you want there's a text chat with some prebuilt options put in so you can wish your 
 opposition good luck or tell them all to enjoy looking at the back of your car. Overall the Online 
 mode is good, although they could have included some multiple car modes in Rally cross, Corr or 
 even Crossover with just one other car.
  
  After you're done looking through the superb menu system to pick which one of the above modes to 
 do you'll want to know how the racing actually is. When you've selected your car and difficulty 
 you can listen to some information about the track up ahead from your co-driver, go out for a practice 
 run or change your car set-up. After you're done that just go straight into the race and you're 
 off! The different race types mean that they all handle differently but most importantly they ALL 
 handle BRILLIANTLY. Tagging another buggy could see you spinning out of control into a wall or 
 in Rally you take a corner too tightly and say good-bye to your 5 second lead!
  
  One thing DiRT does brilliantly is the damage, the harder your difficulty the more damage that 
 gets done to your car. Running wide and scraping the barrier could damage your side door while 
 driving head first into a tree will cause your car to well... not look much like a car any more!
 
  
  The Graphics in the game are fantastic however there is sometimes some slowdown with multiple cars 
 on the track or when there's loads of debris going flying everywhere, this is very rarely though 
 and doesn't last very long at all until it's back to normal.
  
  Overall this game is brilliant and well worth a buy if you're into racing games, it'll keep you 
 entertained for years to come. If you're ensure on if you'll like it or not (You'd be crazy not 
 to) then download the demo as it gives you a good idea on the some of the modes in the game, but 
 only a very small portion of it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Walton31
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jun 16, 2007 3:40 am PT
Review:  Im about 35% complete through career mode and to be quite honest i havent had this much fun in 
 ages. The sense of speed is astounding and when anticipating a crash, my god does your heart race. 
 I am thouroughly enjoying this experiance.
  
  The graphics are probably one of the best on 360 and the variety of races and vehicles easily tots 
 upto be the most found on any other Rally game.
  
  The only problem ive found is that considering im 35% complete and ive only been on it for 2 and 
 half hours its a considerably short game, and achievements are relatively easy to get. But you 
 wil probably find yourself going through the career again maybe on a harder difficulty.
  
  iwould definetly reccomend this game for anybody wanting to get the best game on xbox 360, Over 
 Dramatic, I think not,
  
  Go buy it you want be disappointed 
::::::

::::::
UserName: garethross
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 16, 2007 1:49 am PT
Review:  Colin McRae is back with another game but this time its more than traditional rally you would come 
 to think when hearing Colin McRae. This game has an extensive supply of options for the offline 
 modes which will keep you busy for a long time. Amazing graphics, but some times the frame rate 
 will drop when a bunch of cars collide which is a shame.
  
  This game was rushed out in Europe to meet Fathers day, which has let this game down in due corse. 
 The online was rushed, limited options and only three achievments here to unlock in this mode. 
 The replay feature could have been so much more, yes the replay options are extensive but not enough.
 
  Cameras cant keep up when dramatic crashes take place, no save feature means those moments of 
 genuis or just plain amazing crashes are lost for good.
  
  Obsticles on this game make it more fustrating than fun forcing you to restart the race more than 
 once on certain tracks, tires act like stone when driving over them to get back on track, those 
 advertising signes act like stone or metal once stuck behind when you might as well restart the 
 race.
  
  The main menus and loading menus are something special which I hope other games will try and suceed 
 in copying.
  
  Loading times are nothing to complain about most take 30seconds tops to load each race and restarts 
 as expected cause no loading screens.
  
  The view distrance is amazing if only you could drive of the track and have no resets causing you 
 to go back on the track.
  
  Achievments are far to easy to gain in the first few races, I my self got 3 at once.
  
  So 
 for those Rally enthusiasts and those who love racing games this is a must for a two week rental 
 but as a purchase unless updates are brought out forget it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dark_rage864
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 15, 2007 4:35 pm PT
Review:  When i first got the game, it was very addictive in the start, i couldn't barely walk out because 
 it's the dirt that sticks to you. There wasn't any downsides to this game, but only that you cannot 
 customize cars at all, so you would have to stick with the cars they made. To compare this against 
 Forza Motorsport 2, the graphics are more intense, gameplay drives you through and online is amazing. 
 The career mode in both games are the same rating since they both are enjoying and open out to 
 the players. Graphics: Fresh as steel, the graphics are fantastic; the quality, the texture and 
 especially the tracks. Most people think that the graphics are the key thing to make a game go 
 gold but it is true and of course for this type of style!
  
  Gameplay: Repetitive and boring in someways but the quality is great. Driving and having dirt flying 
 around does bring out a lot of realism and pace for the players. Top-speed limits is variable to 
 people when driving but this is the only element we all been waiting for, more realism brings more 
 experience to players.
  
  Sound: Engine is as smooth as clay, when driving you would expect more noise of the performance 
 of your car, but you will! The music are sometimes very disturbing when playing the game. More 
 sound effects would be great. Value: The game is valuable but it is very hard to tell between Forza 
 Motorsport 2 and this, but this would be recommended for more hardcore/dirty racing type of people 
 since the game goes extreme with racing. Tilt: Amazing game, this game deserves more than ever! 
 Engaging and fun to play and realism backs it up. :D
  
  Overall the game will probably on it's highest standard on the xbox 360 console and it is a great 
 game. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
