-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Disney's Meet the Robinsons
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/xbox360/action/meettherobinsons/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Environments offer solid dungeon crawling and puzzle solving.
 different gadgets are fun to use and equally handy.
 plenty to do.
 Harlan Williams and Adam West lend their voices to Carl and Uncle Art in memorable fashion.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Puzzles and enemies tend to be easy to figure out.
 graphics aren't as extravagant as they could be, particularly on the PC and Xbox 360.
 minigames don't allow multiplayer competition.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Apr 13, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.9
Critic Score: 6.6, 18 Review (s)
User Score: 6.5, 134 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Disney Interactive Studios
Developer: Buena Vista Games
Genre: Sci-Fi Action Adventure
Date: Mar 27, 2007
ESRB: Everyone 10+

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Disney's Meet the Robinsons is a fairly satisfying movie tie-in that borrows heavily from a number 
 of classic adventure and action games. 

  As video games go, Disney's Meet the Robinsons probably won't be mentioned very often in the same 
 breath with such games as Jak &amp; Daxter, The Legend of Zelda, or Tomb Raider. Nevertheless, 
 it borrows heavily from those and other classic games, with generally solid results. It also does 
 exactly what it's supposed to do, which is let players immerse themselves in the movie's futuristic 
 world. The game revolves around the character of Wilbur Robinson, who uses a time machine to travel 
 into the past and inadvertently sets in motion a chain of events that alters the future. You'll 
 spend the majority of the game in that alternate future, using Wilbur's space-age gadgets to deal 
 with the robot enemies and puzzles contained within each massive environment. You won't be impressed 
 by the graphics, and the action will seem formulaic to you if you've been playing video games for 
 at least a few years. But through sheer variety and a mother lode of charm, the game ultimately 
 manages to be satisfying.  

          In the game, you use Wilbur's gadgets to solve puzzles and defeat enemies.     

  Structurally 
 speaking, Disney's Meet the Robinsons is an action adventure that borrows heavily from genre-defining 
 games (such as the aforementioned Zelda and Tomb Raider franchises) . There are eight main environments, 
 including the Robinson mansion in the year 2037, the science fair in the year 2007, and various 
 twisted renditions of places in an alternate 2037. Each environment has multiple floors and areas 
 that you have to get through, and each area has its own set of puzzles and enemies. Puzzles involve 
 a fair amount of jumping, climbing, and sidling your way around the environment, as well pushing 
 and pulling heavy objects. You'll also find yourself constantly using Wilbur's gadgets to manipulate 
 objects in the environment. While you're doing all of that, you'll frequently encounter enemy robots 
 that are programmed to attack Wilbur. Each enemy robot is vulnerable to a specific gadget. Some 
 robots require that you use one gadget to reveal a weak spot, then another gadget to finish off 
 the robot. Boss battles involve the same sort of gadget swapping, but they're more time consuming 
 and visually more elaborate.  

  In all, you'll collect five different gadgets. The two gadgets that come into play most frequently 
 are the disassembler ray, which can break apart certain doors and manhole covers, and the charge 
 glove, which hurls electrical balls that can obliterate certain enemies. The disassembler ray and 
 charge glove also have alternate uses. You can use the disassembler ray to reduce furniture and 
 other decorative objects into spare parts that can be fed into a transmogrifier machine to build 
 gadgets and upgrades. Meanwhile, the charge glove's electrical balls can activate distant switches 
 that provide temporary power to machines and elevated walkways. Rounding out the list of gadgets 
 are a scanner backpack that lets you scan enemies and structures to find weak spots to uncover 
 hidden areas; a pair of havoc gloves that let you launch sonic shockwaves and dive underground; 
 and a levitation ray that lets you lift enemies and heavy slabs into the air for short periods. 

  Minigames are thrown into the mix where you roll through obstacle courses in a protectosphere (think 
 Super Monkey Ball) , dig through underground mazes using the havoc gloves (think Dig Dug) , and play 
 a futuristic game of Pong against family members using the charge glove. These minigames are good 
 diversions, but they're not forced on you so often that they wear out their welcome. You can replay 
 them anytime you want. You're also free to hitch a ride on the monorail train and backtrack to 
 areas you've already solved. Even though the layout of each dungeonlike area is straightforward, 
 there are secret doors and chests hidden all over the place. Some secret areas can't be accessed 
 until you acquire the havoc gloves or the levitation ray. Chests contain concept artwork, viewable 
 action figures, and blueprints for building permanent health or energy upgrades using the transmogrifier, 
 which means that the rewards for returning to "earlier" areas are actually significant.  

  You don't need to know anything about the movie to understand what's going on in the game. You 
 play the part of Wilbur Robinson, a precocious teenager living with his family in a high-tech mansion. 
 Wilbur and the other major characters are introduced in short order, while various minor characters 
 make brief appearances throughout the course of the game. Incredibly, the game manages to present 
 a story that's similar to the one from the movie without actually giving away the movie's major 
 plot twists. In both the movie and the game, the mysterious Bowler Hat Guy steals the Robinsons' 
 time machine and goes back to 2007 to bring about an alternate future. In the movie, a boy named 
 Lewis is brought to the future, meets the Robinsons, and subsequently uses the time machine to 
 undo some of the changes that the Bowler Hat Guy caused. The game tells the other half of the story 
 and reveals what Wilbur was doing when he wasn't with Lewis. With the story put together in this 
 fashion, the game stays true to the movie's story without recycling every single scene exactly 
 as it was depicted in the movie. So, even if you have seen the movie, the game will still seem 
 fresh to you.  

  The game also does a great job of copying the movie's attitude and style, even though the graphics 
 don't push the hardware capabilities of any of the systems for which the game is available. On 
 the one hand, the characters and environments often look just like they did in the film; the bosses 
 are massive and the draw distance is such that you can see everything for miles in any direction. 
 Locations like the Robinsons' mansion and the Ant Hive are larger than life, exhibiting some outlandish 
 architecture. It's fun to watch furniture and chests shatter into multiple pieces after using the 
 disassembler ray on them. You'll even notice some snazzy use of cel-shading in the clouds and streams, 
 if you take a minute to observe them in motion. On the other hand, the quality of some visual details 
 tends to vary, which means that some locations look like they were taken right from the film, while 
 others look more like something taken out of a generic PlayStation 2 game. But more often than 
 not, the game resembles the movie, which is ultimately what matters.  

  As for the audio, the catchy guitar music and the realistic atmospheric noise help keep the player 
 immersed in Wilbur's world. However, what you'll probably remember most are all of the whimsical 
 dialogue exchanges featuring the voices of the same Hollywood actors who voiced the characters 
 in the movie. The nervous tone of comedian Harlan Williams makes him perfectly suited for the role 
 of Carl, the stressed-out robot that's constantly badgering Wilbur over the radio. Tom Selleck's 
 charming tone and gravely delivery totally sell his brief appearance as Wilbur's dad. And Adam 
 West, who is best known as TV's Batman, turns in a masterful performance in a pair of cameos as 
 Uncle Art, the galactic pizza-delivery driver.  

          Minigames, such as charge ball and protectosphere, Super Monkey Ball knockoffs, give you 
 something else to do besides exploring.     

  Like so many movie-based games these days, Disney's Meet the Robinsons is available for a multitude 
 of different systems. The versions available for the PC, Xbox 360, PlayStation 2, and the Nintendo 
 GameCube and Wii consoles are all similar in terms of content. The Xbox 360 version lets you earn 
 1,000 achievement points for your gamerscore. It also flaunts an extra, self-contained bonus game 
 that involves blasting away at flying bowler hats from a first-person perspective using the security 
 turrets situated inside different rooms of the Robinson house. You won't feel much desire to play 
 it after you've collected the 200 achievement points associated with it, but it's a fun little 
 diversion nonetheless. The Wii version makes modest use of the controller's motion-sensing and 
 infrared-targeting capabilities. Mainly, you can use the infrared sensor on the Wii Remote to position 
 the camera and to aim your gadgets. You can also tilt the Nunchuck attachment to cycle between 
 targets when the lock-on cursor is activated. The waggle controls get the job done, but they're 
 not worth the extra $20 in price compared with, say, the GameCube version. In terms of visual quality, 
 the different versions of the game all look the same with regard to environmental detail, textures, 
 character models, and overall graphical complexity. However, the Xbox 360 and PC versions look 
 cleaner and sharper than the others because they render everything at higher resolutions. The gap 
 in quality isn't huge, but it's worth keeping in mind if you have your choice of systems to play 
 the game on and intend to pick up the game.  

  All things considered, Disney's Meet the Robinsons should satisfy anyone who has the urge to explore 
 the Robinsons' futuristic world. The game won't blow you away, but Wilbur's gadgets are fun to 
 use. There's also plenty to do between gathering blueprints, playing minigames, and getting through 
 the puzzles and bosses in the dungeonlike environments.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (4 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Cogo2112
Rating: 7.1
Date: Jul 20, 2007 6:13 pm PT
Review:  This game is fun at times, then what seems in a typical Disney game fashion becomes extraordinarily 
 hard at times to complete some levels during play. There are certain game fields that are very 
 entertaining and easy enough to have your video game savvy kids to take control of. Then out of 
 the blue some mundane, and required precisly timed, repeatable puzzle that requires a XBOX 360 
 gamer score of 15,000 to complete. Good idea but they ruined the game in terrible camera actions 
 at times and REALLY frustrating things you need to do to complete the levels correctly. Primarily 
 the ease to forget to solo scan everything you see while trying to attempt a task &amp; cumbersome 
 aiming controls.
  In all the game is very fun at times. Especially the mini games, but when you play the story mode, 
 you go from this is cool to man this game sucks way to many times during the levels in my opinion. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CarltonWolf
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 30, 2007 11:21 am PT
Review:  I really liked Meet the Robinsons. I was a very well put together game. It was kind of mindless 
 fun and that is a little different from the mainstream. You have to take your time and search all 
 the areas for the hidden stuff but that is part of gaming.......... I like how the story unfolded 
 as you play thru the game and I have not seen the movie yet and playing the game has me kind of 
 interested. There is some killer glitch at the end of the game that I never encountered. Something 
 about erasing your game. Anyway if you play it you may want to do your research before starting 
 it. If you are playing the game for the points you really need to take your time and search all 
 areas and freaken scan everything. Anyway I liked the game the graphics and audio where great. 
 The Chargeball took a little getting used to but it is pretty easy once you do.......... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jejh1971
Rating: 7.9
Date: Jun 13, 2007 10:45 am PT
Review:  Meet the Robinsons is just like the kind of woman I like. Easy and Fun! Okay, so I'm only kidding 
 about the easy women statement... But I do love a game that unfolds and plays like a movie or cartoon. 
 I simply cannot stand how so many games these days are just too difficult and force you into that 
 restart - restart - restart - god, i'm losing my mind!!! style of play. Here's a clue for all game 
 design studios : RESTARTING OVER AND OVER AGAIN IS NOT FUN !!!! i already have enough grey hairs, 
 thanks very much. So anyway, MTR is a nice, slick looking, fun game in the vein of Zelda, believe 
 it or not. There's auto jump, auto hoisting over short objects and lots of gadgets to fool around 
 with in the environment. The game is not really easy , it's just not Restart-Hell hard. ... and 
 in my book that's a REALLY good game ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: clubside
Rating: 5.6
Date: Apr 25, 2007 2:35 pm PT
Review:  Another uninspired movie tie-in you guess? Well, you're right, though of the current batch of similar 
 360 games (Cars, Open Season, etc.) this one looked to be fun but pretty much blew it on all accounts.
 
  
  First, I guess, the good: graphics, animation, voice, all the bits that make it look and move like 
 the film. That's about it as the gameplay is nearly broken.
  
  Here we have what I can only describe as a non-platformer platformer. You can't jump, but there 
 are context-sensitive climb and sidle commands. Jumping i instead handled automatically basically 
 removing your normal exploration options. Eventually you'll weild a number of weapons, but the 
 lock-on is horrendous, either not locking on or locking on to the wrong thing. You're supposed 
 to be able to toggle targets by flicking the right stick but this rarely targets what you intended. 
 You can also hold in the left trigger to mark a target (or multiple depending on the gun) but this 
 takes away movement and can be interrupted.
  
  While locked on you can also dodge which is sometimes useful. This feature is needed to pass a 
 few traps and rarely works as you want. I basically passed the traps through sheer number of attempts 
 trying as it would not move as I wanted.
  
  There are a number of upgrades to yourself and gadgets but the chance to upgrade them comes infrequently. 
 There are ball rolling sections where you die because you can't see what is coming up. There are 
 mini-games like Chargeball which doesn't play well, and later Boulderdash-style underground puzzles 
 that again are mostly trial-and-error because of limited screen space.
  
  The game isn't overtly short but not long either. Just irritatingly medium in length. I rated the 
 game as easy because there is usually help to be found though I found the solution to the second-to-last 
 boss frustrtating until you find the secret, then it was easy just long.
  
  Meet the Robinsons looks great but is really not fun. You can see the hint of where they were going 
 so it could have been a decent platformer, instead it is a trial-and-error mess. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
