-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Don King Presents: Prizefighter
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/xbox360/sports/donkingpresentsprizefighter/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Plenty of real fighters.
 Lengthy Career mode.
 Don King's hair.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Controls are too complicated and unresponsive.
 Career mode's story is poorly executed.
 Gameplay is dull.
 Punches lack &quot;oomph&quot;.
 Presentation is behind the times.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jun 10, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 5.5
Critic Score: 5.9, 41 Review (s)
User Score: 5.9, 324 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: 2K Sports
Developer: Venom Games
Genre: Boxing
Date: Jun 10, 2008
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Complicated and unresponsive controls combined with uninteresting gameplay and a disjointed story 
 keeps Prizefighter down for the count. 

  Don King is one of the greatest, if not  the  greatest, promoters of all time. The spiky-haired 
 bombastic orator could sell you tickets to your own funeral with one of his patented verbose and 
 sometimes hard-to-follow rants. Don King Presents: Prizefighter needs such a salesman behind it. 
 But even the loquacious Don King can't spin Prizefighter's disappointing gameplay and poor controls 
 into something worth $60. And  that's  saying something.  

           Career mode lets you take your created fighter through the ups and downs of a career. 

  Prizefighter's main draw is its Career mode. Here, you make a fighter with the game's fairly robust 
 creation tools. Once you're done, you'll guide "The Kid" from obscurity to the limelight throughout 
 the course of his career. You book your own fights, and you'll generally have two or three fights 
 from which to choose. There's not a tremendous variation between most fighters, but there are some 
 twists here and there to keep things interesting. One fighter puts something on his glove that 
 makes it hard for you to see, another fighter has the judges in his pocket, and one guy runs out 
 of gas after six rounds, so you'll have to wait him out. This sometimes feels contrived, and it 
 can be frustrating to fight with a broken hand that you never saw your fighter break, but it does 
 help mix things up a bit. After you've won a few of those bouts, you'll unlock a new fight, which 
 is basically a boss fight.  

  Your created fighter's attributes start off terrible, but he won't be awful forever. Once you sign 
 a contract for a fight, you'll have a few weeks in which to train. There are five ways to train: 
 heavy bag, speed bag, jump rope, focus mitts, and shuttle run. These are all simple minigames where 
 you mash buttons or hit specific buttons as fast as you can. The better you do, the more your attributes 
 will improve. If you don't feel like doing the minigames yourself, you can autotrain and skip the 
 workouts, but if you select this option, you won't get much of a boost.  

  Career mode's most unique feature is its story, which is told via video interviews with such personalities 
 as Don King, Mario Van Peebles, Larry Holmes, and even a Penthouse Pet. However, the short one- 
 or two-line clips are hard to follow, they're pretty boring, and the whole thing is poorly done. 
 In addition to video clips, you'll receive voice and text messages that move the story along and 
 present choices for your boxer. You're offered training sessions, movie roles, shopping trips, 
 dates, and supplements -- it's up to you whether or not you accept. Anything that distracts from 
 your training will lower your boxer's attributes but will likely raise his media profile. The game 
 doesn't really explain what having a high media profile does though, so going out with a woman 
 and losing hard-earned attribute points isn't really an enticing offer.  

  Not everything about the story is bad, though. Every once in a while, your trainer will tell you 
 about the old days and you'll get to fight part of a classic bout. The fights aren't anything amazing, 
 but they're kind of neat and break up the monotony of the career a bit. They consist of short challenges 
 and use a sepia filter for an old-timey look. You're given a goal, such as last the round to knock 
 someone out, and if you accomplish it, you'll unlock a fighter like Joe Louis, Ken Norton, Larry 
 Holmes, or Rocky Marciano to go along with the game's roster of current fighters like Shannon Briggs, 
 Andrew Golota, and Kelly Pavlik. It's not a great collection current pugilists, but at least there 
 are a lot of them.  

           Fun Fact: Don King served four years in prison for beating a man to death.      

  
 Of course, a boxing game doesn't need a storyline, Penthouse Pets, or Mario Van Peebles if the 
 boxing itself is good. But Prizefighter's boxing isn't, and it's not good for a number of reasons. 
 The key problem is the controls, which have a steep learning curve and are unresponsive. There 
 are 31 different punches you can throw, each with its own unique input. You can jab, throw a straight 
 punch, or unleash a left or right hook, depending on which face button you press. You hold the 
 right trigger to go to the body, press two face buttons at once for an uppercut, hold the right 
 bumper plus a face button down for stepping punches, and press the left bumper with a button for 
 a signature punch if your meter is full. Given enough time, it's possible to become competent with 
 the controls, but it's frustrating to fumble around trying to learn while the AI pummels you. Even 
 when you do learn all of the controls, you'll be hamstrung by how unresponsive they are. You'll 
 frequently press a button and not see the punch thrown until a full second or more passes -- if it 
 gets thrown at all. As a result, you'll end up mashing buttons and hoping for the best. This is 
 a poor tactic, however, because it's so easy to run out of stamina early in your career.  

  You might think that a game with such complicated controls would be sim-like, but that's not the 
 case with Prizefighter. At the beginning of your career, you'll have to lean back to occasionally 
 avoid flurries if you want to be successful, but once you've gotten your stamina up, you can stand 
 toe-to-toe with your foe like a pair of Rock' em Sock' em Robots. You'll get knocked down a few 
 times, but knockdowns are little more than a speed bump. It's not uncommon to get knocked down 
 two or three times in a fight and still win easily. Of course that means you'll have to knock your 
 opponent down even more, so you'll spend a great deal of time watching fighters pick themselves 
 up off the mat. To give you some idea of how ridiculous the knockdowns are, at one point in our 
 career we were 20-6 and had knocked opponents down 124 times while being knocked down 62 times 
 in 162 (90 second) rounds.  

  Another thing boxing games simply must do that Prizefighter doesn't is make punches look and feel 
 powerful. Every once in awhile, you'll get a good flurry of devastating punches, but often, they'll 
 graze the other fighter, won't make a sound effect, the sound effect will be late, or the punch 
 will clip right through the other fighter. When you add up all of these problems, you're left with 
 a frustrating, often boring boxing game.  

  Online play potentially could have spiced things up, but entering tournaments or fighting ranked 
 and unranked bouts with another person is even less fun than fighting the CPU. Playing online adds 
 even more lag to the controls and makes the boxing more frustrating -- you'll sometimes get "hit" 
 when your opponent didn't even throw a punch. When you toss in the fact that for some reason it 
 takes a lot longer to knock other players down online, you'll be disappointed with Prizefighter's 
 online offering.  

           Whether it's you or your opponent, someone's always lying on the canvas.      

  The 
 first thing you'll notice about Prizefighter's visuals is that they're far less impressive than 
 Fight Night Round 3, which was released more than two years ago. There's not a tremendous amount 
 of difference between many fighters' appearances, and while they may employ different tactics, 
 it's tough to find much variation between fighters' animations. Between rounds, you'll notice that 
 fighters' faces bruise and their eyes will swell closed, but the camera is far enough far from 
 the action during the rounds that these details are tough to see. And when the camera is close 
 to the fighters, its often at an angle that makes it hard to play, so the last thing youre worried 
 about is how the fighters look. The arenas look fine, but none of them are especially interesting. 
 That's the thing with Prizefighter's presentation -- it's not very interesting. Nobody shows much 
 emotion, there are no fighter entrances for the first few hours, the crowds are tame, the first 
 few arenas are deadly quiet, the announcer is subdued, and the cutscenes are poorly produced. At 
 least the game has a good soundtrack with the likes of George Clinton, Run DMC, Boston, Blue Oyster 
 Cult, Young MC, John John, and Kottonmouth Kings providing customizable entrance tunes and background 
 music.  

  With a roster of more than 30 real fighters, a lengthy Career mode, and Don King's presence, Prizefighter 
 does have some things going for it. Unfortunately, all the positives are outweighed by negatives, 
 such as boring fighting, poor controls, and dull presentation. There's no reason to go the distance 
 with Prizefighter -- Fight Night Round 3 is still the champ.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (37 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: karlos008
Rating: 1.5
Date: Mar 30, 2009 1:56 am PT
Review:  This is probably the worst game I have ever played! The storymode is pathetic and disjointed with 
 no real flow to it. The buttons are far to simple with using the usual A B Y X for every punch. 
 I also found it is possiible, if you can get the timing right, to constantly hook your opponent 
 without him being able to do a thing, whaat is the point!! The only half decent thing about this 
 game is the training but, this can get repepative so quickly. There is also a limited number of 
 things you can do to customize your boxer and what ever you choose your boxer always has the same 
 voice. Finally you cannot change the weight of your boxer your stuck being a heavy weight all the 
 way through!
  
  I would recommend geting this game wen it is less tha 5, only then is it value for money!
  
 
  XIDangerMouseIX 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 5iveO
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 12, 2009 4:25 am PT
Review:  I pretty much liked this boxing game, compared to Fight Night Round 3 it doesn't stand a chance, 
 but there a some rather nice touches to it.
  
  The graphics are good but the smoothness of the fights isn't that great, the animation is not the 
 sharpest and it looks like you knock out your opponent with pretty feeble punches, on the odd occasion 
 you'll down an opponent with a signature punch which looks good.
  
  There are some nice touches to this game though and it seems though its tried to be different by 
 adding documentaries and being in the media.
  The media aspect doesnt really prove as an advantage, apart from earn you more money for your fights, 
 you just end up sacrificing training to be in a movie or on a tv commercial. 
  Which is a shame because if you could use that money you earn for say better training facilities, 
 ring attire, music or new signature punches it would of worked well, but you get all this from 
 the start and you can unlock some stuff along the way at no cost.
  
  The training before your fight is really good but some are real difficult to get to grips with.
 
  
  The other thing is there are some great challenges it sets you to beat such as fighting with a 
 damaged fist and cheating boxers.
  
  If you love boxing you will probably like this game for a while but I'd go for Fight Night Round 
 3 or wait for the New Fight Night Round 4.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ev0lutii0n
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 6, 2008 2:10 pm PT
Review:  Good Game.......... I love the story mode although its extremely repetitive.............. I played 
 the game in hope of a cutscene... But the fights get boring........... the training gets even more 
 boring.............
  Its hard to get a boxing game right.............. and 2K nearly done it............
  For example 
 the fact that you get a message from Don after EVERY fight is great................... and it goes 
 unnoticed by most....
  If the gameplay was a lil' less repetitive it would be hands down much better then Fight Night 
 Round 3... but its not.. so Fight Night wins... but its only a unnaminious 
 
  ........................
  
  But also I got the game for free so either way........ it was gonna be  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JC8911
Rating: 2
Date: Jul 22, 2008 12:08 pm PT
Review:  Problems mainly in game play really the reactions too when you hit the buttons on your controller 
 until he hits is bad, and the movement of the character is so slow sometimes it feels that he will 
 just stand there and take a beating. Which really will make you more likely too wreck the controller 
 and shouting at the screen than play the game for over 20 mins. Training can be quite annoying 
 too and pretty much boring. The graphics are way behind the times not enough detail to anything 
 but extra content no effort making the game play fun
  
  Really too say the only thing good about this game is all the real fighters in it.
  
  Poor 
 Poor game not much fun at tall you could just wish they could put more effort into game play than 
 any extras thats what makes games !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
  
  Stick to fight night it really is the boxing game to play 
::::::

::::::
UserName: seanokc
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 16, 2008 8:13 pm PT
Review:  Don King: Prizefighter is not for the gamer that only wants jump right in and blast away at an 
 opponent. The game may be more for those folks that remember when boxing matches lasted 15 rounds 
 and to win you put your time in the gym and not in front of the cameras. If you only want mindless 
 violence and everything to be easy, you won't like this game. If you want to build your own boxer, 
 train him, test his metal and follow a story line based on old school boxing, get this game. The 
 controls are responsive when you take the time to train your boxer. That's how boxing works. If 
 you are slow, work on agility, if you are weak, hit the heavy bag. I thought this was a great entertainment 
 package for those who like the fighting side and for those who like the strategy to build a winner. 
 Great video extras. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stinkfinger724
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 8, 2008 9:33 pm PT
Review:  Lets face it. We all know that this game is going to be reviewed by everyone and compared to Fight 
 Night Round 3. And so am I. but seriously, trying to make a game to follow FNR3 is no easy feat. 
 Thankfully, the guys at 2K Sports have Don King on their side to help even the odds. Just minutes 
 in to the career mode and as the trash talking maestro fills your HD display... what! YOU DON`T 
 HAVE HD! GET OUT OF HERE!
  
  But seriously, the career mode here isn`t all that bad with a documentary type feel to it. It reminded 
 me of the career mode in Guitar Hero Aerosmith. Also the boxing is nothing to hard to learn. Just 
 button-based boxing. The way it was meant to be.
  
  However (returning back to Fight Nigh) , the visuals and the controls aren`t nearly as fluent as 
 Fight Night and there is some questionable collision detection. Also, there are no illegal moves 
 this time. WHAT!
  
  Even though it does not dethrone the true king of boxing, it does deliver quite a punch. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dj_newbreed
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 5, 2008 1:22 pm PT
Review:  yo this game is actually all right, i don't get how they can say its unresponsive it handles actually 
 quite well for me, my guess unresponsive stands for "i can't just button mash an win/ i'm lazy", 
 if thats your deal then go play smash brothers, i think this game is a great boxing sim, play it 
 an try it out, but its true this game isn't for everyone you gotta have rythim to play it, you 
 can't just sit there an throw hands, you gotta time your punches an lean how to sticc an move, 
 the only thing i think that would have made this game better would have been to include an alternate 
 control scheme that allows use of the right sticc to throw punches, but its still a great game 
 an i consider it a decent rival to EA's fight night series, but i'd rent it first an c if it was 
 for me before buying it... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Adams134g
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 4, 2008 3:13 pm PT
Review:  This game is some competition for Fight Night. I love the character of Don King in this game. The 
 story being a documentary is a neat approach, which will be a strength on Prizzefighter's side 
 against Fight Night. Love the way they used so many characters in the documentary. A nice boxing 
 game. Fight Night's fans will have to get used to the different controls in Prizefighter. The fighting 
 is not as good as Fight Night but still pretty good. Graphics are okay, not much compared to Fight 
 Night's. Fight Night may have the fighting on it's side but it better get some story to compete 
 with Prizefighter. It may be hard for Fight Night fans to play this game, but I urge you to do 
 so. As for no one who's played a boxing game before this won't be a good place to start. I ask 
 all Fight Night fans to push away your stubborness and give Don King's Prizefighter a chance. You 
 won't regret it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lithium411
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 4, 2008 11:53 am PT
Review:  its not "fun" like fight night, its a lot more realistic.... its hard to explain
  
  the graphics are actually good but the game play is a bit sluggish, but its more strategic than 
 fight night. You don't go toe to toe for the entire fight. and just like boxing even if you have 
 full health you can go down if you get caught with 2 or 3 big blows
  
  the only thing thats not great is the boxer selection, but thats alright because the game is meant 
 for the awesome career mode
  
  play the demo on x box live to make sure because a lot of people don't like it because its not 
 an arcade game. It really is the most accurate display of boxing 
  If you really liked fight night then i wouldn't get it because it is really the opposite of fight 
 night, just wait for fight night 4 next year.
  
  
  THIS GAME IS FOR TRUE BOXING FANS WHO DID NOT LIKE FIGHT NIGHT BECAUSE THEY THOUGHT IT WAS UNREALISTIC 
 AND HAD A CRAPPY CAREER MODE. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Boogerbandit
Rating: 1
Date: Jul 1, 2008 1:40 pm PT
Review:  I was so disappointed after waiting months on end for this well polished turd. I traded two games 
 for this and wanted to literally go punch the Game-Stop employee for not warning me to rent first. 
 You basically can't blame him for making a sale OR coning me to put a reserve on it to get his 
 sales rep up, but BOY do I feel robbed! What game allows the Easy difficulty to pummel the user? 
 I mean I like a challenge but this was plain ridiculous! Graphics, controls, career mode = DON'T 
 BUY or rent. Yeah you could give it credit, ( for what I don't know yet) , but the video footage 
 was original. Fight Night 3 is clearly and STILL the better game 2 years and running. Where EA 
 dropped the ball in certain areas, it was not that noticeable of a flaw like 2K's DON KING PRESENTS 
 PRIZEFIGHTER's entire package. Gamers enjoyed and had fun playing Fight Night throughout any one 
 particular drawback, but I refuse to play this game EVER AGAIN. Waiting on Fight Night 4 and I'll 
 never lose faith in EA AGAIN... I PROMISE.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: peppersmith
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 30, 2008 6:03 pm PT
Review:  I rented the game from blockbuster a couple of days ago because i wanted to try a boxing game. 
 The first 10 minutes of playing the game started in confusement and tough controlls. I alomost 
 gave hope on the ame until i started the carrer mode. Creating a boxer and playing in his career 
 was very fresh and fun to play. The gameplay was very tough at first, but i got used to the toghness 
 and started to actually win some games. I pset to bring the game back, but im looking foward to 
 buying it with my money. Sure, it dosn't bring a good first impression, but when you give it a 
 hour, its pretty fun. This game also brings one of the best soundtracks eber since they started 
 making the guitar hero and rock band games. Rent it and play it for an hour, see if u like it. 
 It can be a yes or no due to how patient you are. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RbMwL
Rating: 1
Date: Jun 26, 2008 2:51 pm PT
Review:  There are so many glitches and the graphics are sub par. The commentary is horrible as they repeat 
 the same things over and over. Its hard to believe that 2K would put out such a crappy product. 
 Don King must be hurting for money to even endorse this sad attempt of what could have been a good 
 game. 
  
  There are some undertones of a Rocky storyline, but it does not pull you in, it is absolutely boring 
 and unoriginal. The commentary is something that belongs in Billy Madison with the ridiculous amount 
 of stuttering. The graphics and player movement are not smooth and have tons of freezes and glitches. 
 The career mode is short and not very rewarding while the entire game can be beat in 6-8 hours.
 
  
  In short the game is a utter mess, with a very unoriginal storyline, crappy graphics, and horrible 
 audio. I have not played a game as bad as this since Family Double Dare on NES. Anyone looking 
 to play a boxing game should stick to Fight Night Round 3.
  
  I would not recommend this game to anyone, not even for rental. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DeadlySlapshot
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 25, 2008 9:51 am PT
Review:  
  Don King Presents: Prizefighter rewards fans of boxing with a more realistic ring experience where 
 button mashing and haymakers are not useful. 
  
  You can not throw hundreds of punches per round and your punches do not always go where you wanted 
 them to. Your opponent will not stand around like a complete idiot for two or three seconds after 
 you parry his punch so that you can knock his head off. Not every punch will land cleanly on your 
 opponents face, head, or body.
  
  What you can do is box. You can move around your opponent and create openings. You can keep them 
 off you with a strong jab. You can put in work downstairs and slow them down. You can bob and weave, 
 dodge and deke. Your punches will be blocked a lot of times. You will hit and be hit on the shoulders, 
 elbows, arms, chest, etc.
  
  You can train your boxer so that he can move better around the ring. You can train him to be stronger 
 and punch harder. You can go for a boxer that has a well-rounded set of attributes. The choice 
 is yours.
  
  The mini-games are well done and I enjoy them - although the speed bag is tough for me.
  
  
 The presentation of the career mode with its storyline was definitely a big plus for this game.
 
  
  Definitely give this game a fair shot if you are a fan of boxing; It is a very ambitious first 
 entry for this series... and I hope that there will be more.
  
  Also remember that for a more arcadey boxing fix - Facebreakers is right around the corner. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: molitorious
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 23, 2008 7:51 am PT
Review:  I rented this game assuming it wouldn't be worth the price of rental. But I have been craving a 
 new boxing game.. so I bit at the chance to play it.
  
  A little background on me..
  I am a huge fan of EA's Fight Night series. 
  I may like DKP: P because I use control scheme 5 
 on fight night.
  Control scheme 5 uses almost same button set up as DKP: P, only slightly different. So keep in mind 
 I did not have to fight the battle of learning a whole new control setup (which can be daunting 
 and frustrating with new games) .
  
  I base my review with gamespot's "weakness" mentioned in the review:
  
  * Controls are too 
 complicated and unresponsive 
  Controls can be a bit much at first but ultimately I feel there is so much more to do punch wise..
 
  As far as the "unresponsive" part.. the controls only get that way when you start to button mash 
 rather than plan your attack. I think they did this on purpose to punish button mashers. 
  
  * Career mode's story is poorly executed
  In the same breathe they say it is poorly executed 
 and nice and lengthy.. seems like a contradiction. I do agree that the video cut in stuff is a bit 
 excessive at times.. but I am pretty sure you can skip the videos.
  
  * Gameplay is dull 
  Sorry.. this is way off base. In this game you have to change up the way you fight all the time 
 because each opponent has a different style of attack/defense. This is such a big deal to me because 
 I play the hardest setting in Fight Night and never have to alter or change the way I box against 
 anyone in that game (and still win) . In Fight Night I regularly fight against guys 2 and 3 weight 
 divisions higher just to give me a challenge.
  DKP: P is very different.. most matches are challenging yet fun. I may change my tune after months 
 and months of playing.
  
  * Punches lack "oomph" 
  I have KOed guys out in the 1st round on the first fall of the match.
  How many times have you 
 won a fight in fight night like that?
  I will admit that most of the time there are too many knock downs in a match (5-7 between both 
 guys) average.. but this is also true of fight night.
  
  * Presentation is behind the times.
  Presentation is a little stale in terms of originality.. but 
 has a ton.
  
  ring entrance attire (can change color of robe)
  ring entrance music (can choose a song)
  a ton of venues to fight at.. (FNR3 had 8 tops)
  better 
 create a boxer and attire options than Fight Night.
  Better music selection than fight night.
  
  
  I have 2 theories about why this game is rated 
 so bad across the gaming websites.
  
  1- they pick up the controller and assume because they have played a boxing game before they already 
 know how to play.. and get mad when they realize they don't know this game at all.
  
  2- EA has so much influence that it taints the reviews of competitors. Before you call me a conspiracy 
 theorist take a look at at just how much advertising EA has on all the major gaming sites. Its 
 a lot. 
  
  This game does not deserve a 5.5.
  
  I know it seems I have been bashing EA and Fight Night in this review..
  And I have a bit. I 
 love Fight Night and will still play it.. but this game is right up there with it.
  
  Don't Believe me? Go rent, buy it, or play it at a buddy's place. Just give this game a legitimate 
 shot. I think you will be pleasantly surprised. It is a very rewarding and fun game.
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamergeek545
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jun 22, 2008 9:39 pm PT
Review:  Well I don't think it was as bad as GS said it was but it wasn't to good either. I went into this 
 game knowing nothing but Don King has great hair. I really haven't heard anything about this game. So 
 I had very low expections of this game which is one reason I liked it kinda. Of the course the crazy 
 complex controls aren't for the fan of the joystick lovers but after a while you really like them, and 
 if you want a break from Fight Night's controls thsi would'nt be to bad. Although if you did just 
 get done playing Fight Night then there will be a big learning curve. The career mode is boring 
 and not well done but..... well..... there isn't anything I can think about that was good about it. Well 
 if you recently watched The Lineup Episode 4 the talked about Prizefighter. And I think it was Aaron 
 Thomas said you go into one fight where your left hand is broken and you know nothing about what 
 happened and he was right the most annoying thing though would be the fact they give you no mention 
 of that it'll hurt you everytime you throw a left (I'm talking about the game not mentioning anything 
 not Aaron) which annoyed me cause my health kept going down cause all I throw is left jab left jab 
 right jab and then a few left hooks. But I finally got the hang of throwing only rights and beat 
 the guy pretty easilly. Another thing they mentioned was that the boxing wasn't to good and I highly 
 disagree that was my favorite part just because there is a pretty good bit of knockdowns and to 
 me that is just great fun. Another great thing about the pure boxing is the adrenline fueled punches 
 which is really fun because they can turn the tied or they can break your heart. Now I got I think 
 one no two things to talk about. First is the punches that fly through the other guys body which 
 is so frusterating when you are near falling down and so is your oppenent. The other is the bad 
 customizeable options. You can like always on games make your face look like a 90 year old man that 
 just OD'ed on some Viagra but I'm talking about the shorts and stuff they look boring and just 
 the same. Wait I remembered one more thing that is the training sessions, some are really hard and 
 soem are really easy. The hardest is the Jump Rope it's tedious pressing the same buttons over and 
 over again.
  
  
  
  Multiplayer: I was racking my brain trying to think of some way to decipher the MP but I mean it's 
 a boxing game with some laggy moments which is annoying at points but you can sometime get some 
 good matches going and have a lot of fun with your fellow button mashing buddys.
  
  
  
  Re-play Value: Not much re-play value here just if you want to play some boxing matches over again 
 which gets boring on all boxing games. Unless you got like 15-20 friends who own the game and you 
 guys want to go at each other with boxing gloves.
  
  
  
  End It! Well all-in-all this game is a some-what boring experience but will give you some cheap 
 thrills every once in a while. But I got to make my decision Fight Night or Prizefighter hm...... small 
 edge to Fight Night but if you own/owned Fight Night I would say rent this one but other than that 
 it sucks to say this but it's a pass.
  Real Score:6.3 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tuxedo_R
Rating: 1
Date: Jun 20, 2008 3:57 pm PT
Review:  I've loved watching and participating in boxing every since I was a child. So naturaly I will love 
 boxing games, I love the fight night series. I was very excited when this game came out and actaully 
 shoved a little kid out of the way to rent it, now i wish he would have kicked me in the balls 
 to take it back. I will agree with everyone that says its very clunky and slow and its not very 
 fun when My punches actually pass through my opponent. Im rating this game very low because I found 
 the cheapest way to beat everyone in story mode. All you have to do is find an opening and then 
 uppercut them, after they start to move toward you again hit them with another one. you can land 
 an uppercut every 2 seconds. I have never had a fight go past the 2nd round except for the guy 
 who was hopped up on PCP. The game just isnt any fun and its very sad because boxing as a sport 
 is losing popularity and this game could have helped it out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hillam
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 20, 2008 10:38 am PT
Review:  ok so gamespot gave it a bad Review. i admit when u first put the game in its hard! it takes at least 
 a hour to get to grips with the controls. and the story at first is like what the ?**** but when 
 u get into a few fights its perfect and gets better and better till the end, the story is like rocky. it 
 realy drags u in till the end, so go get it now! p. s if u do get it my tip is get to grips with the 
 controls then start a career strait away. it will tell u how to fight and help more than fast fight 
 plus the first guys are very easy. trust me fight fans dont miss this CLASSIC game... ding ding fight! i 
 will now paist this again so its 800 long lol ok so gamespot gave it a bad Review. i admit when 
 u first put the game in its hard! it takes at least a hour to get to grips with the controls. and 
 the story at first is like what the ?**** but when u get into a few fights its perfect and gets 
 better and better till the end, the story is like rocky. it realy drags u in till the end, so go get 
 it now! p. s if u do get it my tip is get to grips with the controls then start a career strait away. it 
 will tell u how to fight and help more than fast fight plus the first guys are very easy. trust 
 me fight fans dont miss this CLASSIC game... ding ding fight! i 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kingdomcool5
Rating: 3
Date: Jun 19, 2008 4:14 pm PT
Review:  i rented thisgame acouple days ago egnoring gamespots review and that was a bad mistake this game 
 is horrible the controls are really bad the gameplay is bad the game seams like its in slow motion 
 when you punch no won plays online i could go on forever...
  
  but the olny thing that was okay about this game is the button mashing tranning minigames otherwise 
 it was horrible
  
  
  THIS IS 
 THE WORST SPORT GAME EVER CREATED BY 2K GAMES
  
  IF YOU 
 WONT A HALF DEASENT BOXING GAME TRY FIGHT NIGHT ROUND 3... SO SAVE YOURESELF THE MONEY DONT EVEN 
 RENT IT.
   
::::::

::::::
UserName: yamadogr1
Rating: 2
Date: Jun 17, 2008 7:18 pm PT
Review:  From the onset of the game I kept wondering when the story was going to pick up but it is the same 
 thing every time you progress. The videos were a nice touch but the controls were clunky and if 
 you time your uppercuts just right you can punch the guy all day on any difficulty. They needed 
 to deliver on the story mode and they didn't. Multiplayer stinks because no one was online. The 
 leaderboards reflected 10,000 players whihc is junk!
  and where is Mike Tyson....... Why is he overlooked in all boxing games... I was hoping there would 
 be a special unlock but that still wouldn't save this game. NOTE TO EA SPORTS ---- Include Iron 
 Mike... He might be a weirdo now but he was awesome to watch box and would be even better if we 
 could use him now... maybe rebuild his career??
  All I know is that 2K's numbers on this game will speak for itself. Don't waste your time on this 
 title.
  This is simple.... don't buy, don't rent 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EliSucks
Rating: 4
Date: Jun 19, 2008 12:03 am PT
Review:  The game is totally boring..... and the controls are virtually impossible, you can't "dance" around 
 the ring. I like Don King, but this game is not up to his standards, it ranks below amature.... Sorry, 
 but Fight Night Round 3 wins this battle! 5.0 is being nice for this game the graphics totally 
 suck for the Xbox 360... I waited and waited for this game to come out and thought it would stand 
 up to Fight Night Round 3 but doesn't even come close.... There are a couple things I do like about 
 the game, the skipping rope part is a lot of fun it kinda reminds me of Guitar Hero.... Sorry 2 
 K this will be the last game I purchase from you! All of your sports games are mediocre.... With 
 the exception of Bioshock, 2 k's game play has gone Waaaaaaay down hill and likely to stay there. 
 2 K is too cheap to put out anything worth buying, ever since they lost all the rights to the other 
 sports that EA bought out, shows that 2 K has no power left in the sports gaming industry.... and 
 has no business in making another sports game! Period..... I CAN NOT WAIT FOR FIGHT NIGHT ROUND 4 
 TO COME OUT! 
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: lyricistvipa
Rating: 5
Date: Jun 16, 2008 9:42 pm PT
Review:  This game is near atrocious, very near. It's not a slightly good game, it's not even a "mmm" game. 
 This is a bad game, simply put. Now before the people who think they know boxing say I don't I 
 must plea my case. For one I know boxing, I've not only watched the sport since I was seven but 
 actually played the sport as well. The responsiveness of this game is horrible, there's no way 
 around that. The graphics are not even decent, which is a big peav of mine. Not that I think graphics 
 are everything but being next gen, that should be a given. Another thing that I found irritating 
 is that most of the boxers on there nobody knows. Now again, I know some wannabe hard cores will 
 want to say that that's not a bad thing, but it is. I don't want to play a game that I have to 
 do research for... right? I like having people over and watching them pick Evander Holyfield because 
 that's the only person they know. It makes them look dumb, and isn't that the whole point of living? 
 
  
  This game however does offer some innovation which is the reason I gave the rating I did. Some 
 aspects of training does offer the player more control than FN3 and the career mode is slightly 
 more entertaining. However, the true markings of a great game is to take what another game has 
 already done and 'roid it up. The career mode is slightly better but the gameplay is a complete 
 joke. Don't make one thing better and screw the other. Everything seems muddy and slow, and for 
 those that claim that this game is realistic has not been in a fight or a ring, at least not a 
 real one. Innovation gets you looked at but it doesn't get you sells, I think this title proves 
 that point. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marcod1
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 14, 2008 1:50 pm PT
Review:  After reading gamespot's review I was hesitant and rented this game. Now I'm out $9 which I could 
 of put towards buying this game.
  
  Thanks Gamespot.
  
  This game offers awesome boxing, graphics, interface/menu options, neat venues, challenging AI, 
 and just an all around great game to own for your sports collection.
  
  The cool feature to this game is when you knock out an opponent, they replay the knock several 
 times if you alollow them and at all different angles. 
  
  Did I mention the graphics? When they start the match a the venues look so real that you think 
 it's a cut-scene from a real match, from the audience cheering in the stands, to the light show. 
 It's pretty compelling.
  
  Anyway, to say this game is under appreciated is a given. If you liked Fight Nigh it is different, 
 yes, but this game is great and different in THIER own way. Do you really want another Figh Night 
 knock off?
  
  Great Game.. I'm buying 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: texpsych67
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 13, 2008 11:05 am PT
Review:  This reviewer is a congenital idiot, or took 5 minutes playing the game to judge, or has NEVER 
 watched a boxing match or been in a fight in his LIFE. A 5.5 would indicate an unplayable game 
 with bugs and broken game play. This reviewer must work for EA. This review pissed me off so much 
 that I paid the 6 bucks to join just so I could speak the truth.
  
  When you first start playing, you will lose. A lot. Why? Because you're trying to fight like it's 
 Fight Night. You can't do that. You can't parry someone and then throw haymakers and NEVER get 
 hit the entire fight. Just like in real life. When you parry a punch, the other guy doesn't just 
 stand there stunned like an idiot. The reviewer also mocked how many times someone can get knocked 
 down and then get back up. Seriously? In FN, you can knock the guy down EVERY freaking round and 
 he'll get back up. I love FN, but it's NOT realistic and never has been.
  
  Anyway, the fighting mechanics are very realistic. You have to get into a rhythm, you have to watch 
 your fatigue, and if you're good, you will be rewarded by increasing your adrenaline so that you 
 can throw a signature punch to lay the opponent out on the canvas. Your training influences your 
 style very realistically. You move like a zombie until you train your agility, you're slow without 
 training your dexterity, etc. But there is a noticeable difference one you do train. Boxing is 
 a sport of timing and angles, and so is this game. You can't just stand there and throw 100 punches 
 and ridiculous haymakers and win. You won't win. You have to be good at BOXING.
  
  You actually feel like you're moving up the ranks instead of just fighting one cookie cutter guy 
 after another. Sure, the story is somewhat disjointed, and I loathe Don King, but it's still much 
 more interesting than FN. FN's ridiculous rival system was so contrived. In this game, every opponent 
 is different, every situation is different. You have to approach each fight tactically.
  
  The graphics are not as good as FN, the commentary is HORRIBLE, and there is clipping and other 
 visual b. s. But the music is freaking sweet. Not just random rap songs that suck, but a lot of 
 different genres and classics you've heard before. There are actually *gasp* rock songs. You can 
 even enter to "Play That Funky Music White Boy". Hey, as a white boy, I appreciate them throwing 
 us a bone. 
  
  If you're a serious gamer who appreciates realism and strategy instead of some kid with ADD who 
 can't put the time into learning the game, then you'll see how the mechanics actually shine. Do 
 they need work? Sure. But it's the FIRST iteration of this game. With reviewers like this, it might 
 be the last. That's why I'm so pissed off. 
  
  I want alternatives to FN. Just like I want alternatives to b-ball, baseball, (remember when football 
 had alternatives?) , etc. I'm giving it a 10, not because it's a 10, but because this game deserves 
 better than the horrible, poorly researched, dimwitted review this site gave it. I really don't 
 understand the 5.5. Get a different job. Seriously. I'm offended as a gamer reading a "professional" 
 review by someone that has no idea what they're talking about. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: redalucard1977
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 13, 2008 7:24 am PT
Review:  When I read some of the reviews trashing this game I wasn't sure if I should get it, but I wanted 
 to check it out for myself. Especially since I have been looking forward to this game coming out 
 for a couple of months now. I bought the game, brought it home, and played it until 2:00 in the 
 morning! I couldn't stop playing it. It was amazing fun. 
  The graphics are fairly decent but thats not what drew me in. The DEEP customization of your main 
 character boxer. The round by round stats. The stats and awards kept in the "Your Bio" section 
 of the game. You can schedule your own fights choosing between several boxers based on a summary 
 of their record and ability and based on the opinion of your promoter and the amount of money up 
 for grabs if you win. Another awesome feature is the documentary style used for the storyline. 
 It is not computer animated people talking, it is actual live action video of Don King, other promoters, 
 ex-girlfriends, former boxers, movie and TV stars like Mario Van Peebles (he's an 80's/90's personality) 
 and many others I haven't unlocked yet and they are all talking about you (the main character) 
 and your accomplishments. 
  The first couple of fights I went through fairly easy but as you progress the money gets bigger 
 and the fight get much tougher. They move faster, have more devastating punches, block better, 
 etc. In my first 12 fights I'm 10-2 with 10 KO's. I have 10 KO's because I spend my attribute points 
 and training points on Strength and stamina instead of agility or dexterity. But that is another 
 cool thing, you can concentrate on any of those areas and make any style of boxer in any weight 
 class you want. My two loses came to boxers much faster than and more mobile than mine because 
 of the way I spent my training points.
  The training games are fun too. Some are easy to master and others are very challenging. Overall 
 I would recommend this game to anyone who enjoys boxing and games with good customization and career 
 modes. Some other reviewers are comparing this to Fight Night but you can't because this game isn't 
 made in the same mold as Fight Night. This game is its own thing and that is cool because variety 
 makes the world go around. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VolcanoMan001
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 12, 2008 5:59 pm PT
Review:  First of all, Gamespot's 5.5 review is a joke. When you look at the choices in the boxing genre, 
 there aren't many to choose from. Having personally played Fight Night in the past, Prize Fighter 
 provides a fresh look on the subject, and another game to keep boxing fans entertained.
  
  The career mode is interesting and is where Prize Fighter excels. It does just enough to keep it 
 interesting and providing a feel that you are coming from the ground up rather than Fight Night's 
 monotonous approach of just simply fighting again and again up the chain of boxers. The fights 
 themselves have interesting quirks you have to deal with, such as a match where a judge is payed 
 off so you must win by a KO (not a decision) , or another match where one of your hands is injured 
 so you have to avoid using is or else you will hurt yourself. This, along with other things, give 
 the fights a unique feel instead of the same old boring thing over and over again.
  
  The boxing itself is pretty realistic and is the other strength in this game. The other choice 
 we players have, again, is Fight Night with its questionable techniques. Fight Night relies heavily 
 on the super parry move that stuns the opponent, followed by a hay maker punch. This approach is 
 quite gamey since the user can simply parry, and hay maker again and again until the opponent is 
 on the mat. In Prize Fighter, there is a more realistic approach in the sense that parries and 
 blocks do not stun an opponent, rather, you have to block and move and strike when the opportunity 
 presents itself. There is no magic move or parry to do again and again, you have to actually wear 
 your opponent down.
  
  That said, the graphics in Prize Fighter is not quite up to par with Fight Night, with some clipping 
 and unrealistic lip movement by the characters when they speak. On the other hand, the sound effects 
 are pretty realistic and do a good job of keeping the action intense.
  
  Prize Fighter also does a good job of making you feel like you are starting at the bottom and working 
 your way up to the top. As you play, the game will get more interesting by presenting you with 
 decisions to improve your fame (and thus give you more money) or to train yourself. You are also 
 introduced with more characters on your journey to the top, and the local and overall atmosphere 
 noticeably changes throughout the ordeal. The Gamespot review states that the game starts out slow 
 and gets more interesting as it goes, and it gives a demerit for it. In the age of ADD -- I guess 
 that is a bad thing but, in my opinion, it is another strength of the game to make you feel like 
 you are making progress, instead of bombarding the user with everything you are going to see in 
 the game, in the first 30 minutes of play.
  
  Prize Fighter does have room for improvement but when you strip all of the shallow and superficial 
 (and overly critical) complaints away you have a fun and interesting game of boxing with an interesting 
 change in scenery. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IIJuggaNottII
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 12, 2008 3:11 pm PT
Review:  If your the type of gamer who cracks open a game set it on the lowest level and run through the 
 game with the BEST weapon. Or your a boxing fan who can only appreciate a fight where theres gushing 
 blood and a guy gets knocked out. This is NOT the game for you. 
  
  After reading the review for this game I was iffy about making a purchase. Knowing how 2K are viewed, 
 and the type of challenge the makers of this game would be up against (compairison to Fight Night 
 Round 3) I ignored the negative and bought the game. 
  
  I am very satisfied!!! This is the most realistic boxing game I have played. The graphics wont 
 blow you out of the water, Its the SAME as Madden 08 vs. All Pro Football 2K8. The graphics are 
 not better but the Gameplay is where it shines. Not only graphics, but this game has a great deal 
 of BOXING in it. What I mean by that is.... you have to KNOW the sport of boxing. Not as if you 
 were a boxer, but you have to understand Boxing to appreciate the gameplay. Some guys are complaining 
 about Hit detection and stuff like that, well they must not watch boxing. Every blow is NOT a bone 
 crushing blow. If you are being hit, expect your punch to be redirected. When your in close and 
 your opponent is crowding your punches, expect it to look sloppy. 
  
  You have to gain a rhythm in this game. You also have to be on your toes at all times, because 
 you could be leading in a fight and lose your composure and end up on your back. 
  
  Don King presents prizefighter FEELS like Boxing. This is not a game where your going to open the 
 wrapper and start throwing 6 punch combos. In this game you can utilize the attributes of your 
 boxer. If you have a quick guy... he can move around the ring well. He can be a ring general, If 
 you have a boxer with reach.... and you know how to take advantage of it, you can dominate. I never 
 feel as if Im locked into ONE style of boxing no matter the attributes of my boxer. In Fight Night 
 Round 3.... I felt that way. Even if I had Sugar Ray... I felt as if I had to Brawl. In Prize Fighter 
 I can move around and stick and move with ease. 
  
  It has a learning curve that isnt out of reach. It takes time to learn how to string together punches. 
 I enjoy the mini games and they all make sense. The story mode is a nice addition that I believe 
 was well overdue for boxing games. Its not some silly little text asking you who you want to fight, 
 but a full blown career mode. 
  
  Some areas it falls short. I dont believe that every punch should be a bone crushing blow. Sometimes 
 I DO believe that a big blow should show visually in the game. I want to see damage being done 
 as far as seeing my opponents jaw rock. Thats not in the game. When you hit guys in the face with 
 crushing blows...... It doesnt come across as being a BIG blow. Beside the fact that he DOES go 
 down. Fight Night had the graphics for that, but I couldnt stand how even featherweights landed 
 bone crushing blows. It made no sense. I can even understand that some of the punches hit the top 
 of the head, shoulder etc. Every punch cant land smack dab on the kisser. 
  
  This game is for gamers who appreciate the sport of boxing. If you want an arcade boxing game Face 
 Breaker is coming out soon. 
  I give the game a 8.5 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lilirch100302
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jun 12, 2008 8:45 am PT
Review:  MANNNN!!!!!!! i was so excited to get this because EA takes way to long to release Boxing games... 
 FN Round 3 was amazing.... when it came out kinda bored of it now... then this comes out i go to 
 the store like ohhhh yesss.... i pop it in and was extremely let down... i hit jab the character 
 jabs like a second later and not even close to where i wanted it to go... graphics arent even 360 
 worthy really... why woulda company release this knowing that Fight Night was 10x better looking 
 and had 10x better controls 10x better music. I cant wait till FN Round 4 comes out just to put 
 this to shame... EA is one of the worse companies out there but DAMN they sure can make a good 
 boxing game... unlike *cough* *COUGH* clears throat 2k Sports... there was a funny boxing game 
 for Dreamcast back in the day dont remember the name but it had animated characters and was very 
 arcade like was better then this crap... i think it looked better too lol 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Russellt28
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 12, 2008 6:21 am PT
Review:  This game is definetly better than the crappy reviews it got across the board.
  
  Graphics- Defiently sub-par and the punches going through an opponenet might turn you off. along 
 with semi-awkward limbs.
  
  Sound- Great music, great voice acting, and prior to other reviews about the punches sounding dull 
 i was not bothered by that at all in fact the punches sound realistic and not fantastic.
  
  Controls- Challengeing but they are responsive. it all depends on your charachters dexterity, and 
 stamina. along with enough training you can pull of some really nifty moves, one-twos, uppercuts, 
 step around punches, and flush jabs, with hard straights. all that is missing is a check hook, 
 or maybe i just havent found it yet.
  
  Gameplay- Addictive as hell. get past the graphics and the training mode is fun all five ways to 
 train is arcade like, and doesn't feel like a chore. the boxing requires strategy which means you 
 can't just swing wildly and run around the ring. its a good take on boxing, and is more realistic 
 than FN3.
  I jsut wish they had more stances in the game. and i am happy they did not put in the parry featured 
 in FN3 i walways thought that made the game silly 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pacrone
Rating: 4
Date: Jun 11, 2008 8:13 pm PT
Review:  It seems almost fitting that the man who effectively destroyed boxing as a sport should put his 
 name on such a bad game. I don't really know where to start here. Let's begin with the controls 
 and game play. In an attempt to make the boxing more "realistic" the controls have been laid out 
 in a complicated mess so pulling off certain punches and combos are a lesson in frustration. 
 
  
  The Graphics are laughable compared to EA's Fight Night Round 3 which is the what Prizefighter 
 will be compared to over and over again. It seemed that of all the things they could have worked 
 on most the graphics took a back seat to the muddy controls. 
  
  Don King Presents Prizefighter is hardly a contender. My advice: Wait for FN Round 4. It might be 
 a ways away, but it beats playing this mess and you'll have Round 3 to keep you company while you 
 wait. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HKBrad
Rating: 4
Date: Jun 11, 2008 7:33 pm PT
Review:  The developers of Prizefighter clearly wanted to try and take boxing games to the next level. To 
 do so, they put in a great Create a Boxer tool, added some fun story/career mode stuff and developed 
 some great training mini-games that really could have put this over to top. Unfortunately, they 
 fogot to spend as much time on the boxing part. 
  
  Collision detection is broken - you'll get "hit" when your opponent misses and the opposite. Controls, 
 even once you learn them, are unresponsive (big lag time) . Graphics are a step behind Fight Night 
 3, which itself did not seem to take advantage of the next gen console's abilities. 
  
  The developers had the right idea - we still need a boxing game that takes advantage of the new 
 consoles' abilities and that delivers a true in the ring experience. Unfortunately, after Prizefighter 
 I can safely say we're still looking for that game. Prizefighter should have spent more time in 
 the gym polishing up it's skills before stepping in the ring... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: anamani
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jun 11, 2008 12:43 pm PT
Review:  i was getting killed the first few matches (i didnt even bother to look at the controller layout) 
 but ones i started a career and did the tutorial.. i would have to say this game is alright...
 
  
  there have been some truly bad boxing games over the years... and as much fun as it is to play 
 fightnight... the career mode is worthless...
  
  this game does a better job at career it seems... the training seems more in your control... 
 
  
  the create a character is pretty decent... and some parts i feel are better done than fight night... 
 (training, stamina, adrenaline, and the clinching) the game is not super responsive... and if you 
 go into it mashing buttons you will end up several moves ahead of the animation...
  
  but if you take your time and learn the controls there is some fun to be had if you are a fan of 
 boxing games...
  
  when scoring this game i looked back at FN as about an 8 rating... and felt this game could have 
 easily been a 7.5 if it had better animations... but in its current state.. i feel it falls somewhere 
 between a 6-6.5...
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: RussW210
Rating: 2.5
Date: Jun 11, 2008 9:55 am PT
Review:  My friend bought this game over my house (I don't own it, and won't) to play it for the first time. 
 He and I are 23 years old and he is a big boxing fan who especially loves to play boxing games 
 (Fight Night Round 3) .
  
  From the moment he finished his first match, his mind was made up that he hated the game. A few 
 games later I got a shot and felt the same way. We got screwed. This is one of those games that 
 a developer realizes halfway through that it sucks and instead of scrapping the whole project, 
 they release it to the public.
  
  Where to start...
  
  The character graphics are fine, not as realistic as FNR3. The crowd, however, lacks polish. Watch 
 the entrances - only the most up and front of the crowd have any detail. The first boxer's entrance 
 I watched had the crowd looking like lego's. Clearly there was too much time spent on the ring 
 and not enough on other background elements.
  
  The blood looked extremely fake with some red mist flying off your opponents face (starts becoming 
 visible about 3 inches from the face) and disappearing into thin air. Not much bruising on the 
 faces either. You go sit down in the corner and there is no patching up the cuts, just some cliche 
 BS from your trainer and you are sent back out to fight.
  
  Perhaps the most disappointing part of the game is the gameplay. This is reason alone for you not 
 to buy the game. Punches go through your opponent, most don't even land. The game doesn't even 
 try to conceal this problem as you watch the replays of your fist going nowhere near the character. 
 Blocking does nothing and after a punch your guy usually takes about 2-3 seconds to recollect himself. 
 Annoying and not very realistic.
  
  The music sucks - mostly gangster rap. And when it isn't gangster rap it isn't very good anyway.
 
  
  I haven't tried the story mode but hear that is the heart of the game. However, with the abysmal 
 gameplay, lackluster graphics, bad music, Don King pictures, and overall BORING-ness of the game, 
 story mode can't be all too great. Maybe good for one run through.
  
  Boxing fans will be upset with this game, much like my boxing-fan friend who wanted to return this 
 game after an hour. Take my advice and stick with FNR3 until 4 comes around. This game isn't worth 
 it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: threedown
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 11, 2008 9:16 am PT
Review:  ive played through about 8 match's so far, so im not that far into it yet, but for me, this game 
 has been alot of fun so far. 
  ill start witht the graphics, id give them about a 7, nothing to write home about, but they get 
 the job done and look decent enough, the venues all look pretty cool, and the boxer customization 
 is fairly deep, you can make some pretty screwed up looking boxers, or a pretty boy if thats your 
 fancy. i cant wait to get into some of the bigger venues and start fighting some legends in the 
 ring!
  now the gameplay... deserves atleast an 8, it took me about 2 match's to get comfortable with the 
 controls, i was reading the GS spot review where he mentioned how unresponsive the controls were 
 at times, well yeah, when your out of stamina your punchs are really slow, DUH!!! when your full 
 on stamina your swinging faster, not a hard concept. the footwork is a little awkward trying to 
 move around the ring and avoid getting hit, but its something i have to get used to still, you 
 can double tap the analog stick to move fast in a direction, but i rarely use that as of now. the 
 blocking is done with the right analog stick and works quite well, hold the left trigger and you 
 can bob and weave while blocking, takes some learning but once you do, it all works good! theres 
 alot of variety in the punchs and it helps to mix it up. the one thing that bothers me is the hit 
 detection, which is off alot of the time, sometimes youll graze a face and itll be a full blow, 
 stuff like that, but it doesnt bother me that much....
  the career mode is whatever, i could care less about anything except moving up the ranks and boxing, 
 you can pick your match's, but its usually choosing between 2 or 3 fighters, not really a big deal, 
 the training is whatever too, in fact alot of things in this game are whatever to me, but what 
 really counts is i like the boxing in it.... havent tryed online yet, but i will!! oh i will... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SoAxFeaRx
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 11, 2008 8:15 am PT
Review:  After reading the GS review I decided to write my own. Lack of ability, genuine enthusiasm for 
 a good boxing simulator, and overall lack of boxing expertise does not sound like a good person 
 to be reviewing a game like this. Everyone who plays boxing games seems to always look for the 
 arcade like action weve come to expect from the reigning king FN and past prince Punch Out. 
  
  But guess what? Boxing is real. And 2k is one of the best at capturing realistic sport gameplay 
 while still maintaining arcade fun. This game does just that. Its not Fight Night, its not Punch 
 Out. In real boxing you can go 12 rounds without a bigshot, or you can go 15 seconds and get knocked 
 out. The rounds are generally 1 minute 30 seconds long in real time. The same as FN default 3 minutes 
 at double time. But in Prizefighter you end up going into the 12th and past the 6th round more 
 often than not. FN would see 2 maybe 3 round matches, every single time. Even on the hardest difficulty 
 in lighter classes, not very realistic is it? Prizefighter has flash knockdowns, flash knockouts, 
 even injuries like a broken hand, bruised ribs, even blindness, one match in career mode your blinded 
 by your opponents dirty drugged gloves and have to fight your way through fuzzy tunnel vision images. 
 Albeit the injury system is not like you would expect, but not many people are concerned about 
 or enjoy injuries in games, so it fits well here the way it is.
  
  The online 8 person party is awesome. With a good point system to boot. Eight boxers square off 
 to determine who is the best. Certain outcomes bring different point amounts to the players with 
 the highest score winning of course. With some good friends you can never have enough fun playing 
 this mode.
  
  The GS review wreaked of an incompetent athlete who is looking for arcade action as opposed to 
 a realistic simulator. Its the equivalent of a child who doesnt like his vegetables telling the 
 rest of the world why they arent worth eating. 
  
  From glancing blows to hard shots, with complete control of your boxing angles, a myriad of punching 
 variations with an extremely easy control scheme. Anyone coming over from FN will find themselves 
 at home, no control stick here for punching, but the feel is not lost. Instead the right analog 
 stick controls all blocking techniques, which is actually much more efficient than the FN controls.
 
  
  Notice the GS reviewer had so many problems early on with the game, but by the time they understood 
 the controls they were winning with no problem. This shows the lack of thought that went into their 
 review, the majority of the review was made by someone who sucked for a good couple hours and decided 
 all the downfalls he had were the game.
  
  This game deserves a 10. But gets a 9 from me. Why? Xbox360 has been out long enough. We should 
 have at least 2 or 3 titles to be comparing this to. All we have is FN. And Prizefighter destroys 
 that game. Prizefighter has a story mode, online 8 person multiplayer, CAB beyond that of any boxing 
 or wrestling game out now, and near perfect boxing simulation.
  
  If your a boxing fan or a boxer looking for a sim, get this game. If your looking for a arcade 
 fighting game that looks like boxing, get FNR3 or just get VF5 or SF4. Just leave the realistic 
 fighting games for people who know what real boxing is.
  
  FN is for amateurs.
  
  Prizefighter is for champions.
  
  Hit me up for some boxing action. Gamertag v SiXGuN v 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fastnerd
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 11, 2008 8:01 am PT
Review:  When I first pop the game in, I thought that the graphics looked impressive. Then I was like, "scew 
 the graphics, whats up with the gameplay." Let me start by saying that the gameplay seems weird 
 at first but once you get the button configs down, the game really picks up another notch. Im not 
 saying it the best boxing game around but it is very entertaining and fun. You can really pull 
 off some sick combinations once you know what you're doing and look good doing it. There are times 
 when the button responsiveness seem off, but if you can look pass that, this game is really fun 
 and addictive. All I can say is give it a chance, dont compare it to FN because its not trying 
 to be a FIGHT NIGHT ROUND 4, and the game will grow on you. Starts off kind of rough but the game 
 really gets better and interesting. From a boxer and FIGHT NIGHT game lover, I AM KEEPING THIS 
 GAME. Its awesome 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DirtyAl
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 11, 2008 6:08 am PT
Review:  No catchy or overly disriptive open lines here... Just pay attention if you are stuck in the middle 
 of getting this game or not... Check it...
  
  Graphics:
  They get the job done... you see a nice amount of sweat glittering and pouring down your boxer 
 as the match goes on (no homo) ... Facial damage is real... your eyes progressively get swollen 
 and shut correctly... no over exagerration of blood and cuts... the body structure of fighters 
 are accurate... fat guys have that boxer pouch and so on... The robes are a nice addition... the 
 shorts flow nice... The ref is in the ring and does a good job of not interfering with the action 
 of the game... Presentation is what a boxing game should be... 
  
  Gameplay: The bread and butter...
  OK... the footwork could have been better but as the game 
 progresses, you will notice that your boxer will get faster and the controls are actually correctly 
 physics based... if you throw 1 or 2 punches and back up... stick and move.. your boxer begins 
 to get into a RYTHM... yes... in boxing, very few boxers start off a fight throwing a bunch of 
 punches and flying around... but the more you box and the more you punch and CONNECT... you begin 
 to find a rhythm and your boxer will get faster and start throwing more rapidly and smoothly... 
 As far as punches being thrown late.... well if your boxer isn't built up and faster through training... 
 you may throw a right hook and just like in real life... you have to brace yourself and then throw 
 a left... you don't just throw at will... if you did, you might pull a muscle or sprain a rib... 
 punches missing then connecting? well... anyone who has ever actually had a fight will know that 
 if you throw a punch and someone dodges it and you began to pull your arm back- if the dodge back 
 and hit your arm, thats called CONTACT... the step punches actually provide the effect they should... 
 I have watched a few boxing matches in my life and not ONCE.... have I seen a boxer parry a punch 
 and throw their opponent off balance... if you hit a guy with a hook and a step, he will back up 
 to regain his composure... This game has the boxing science down to a tee... it will take a few 
 fights and loses before you get the jist of how to find openings and exploit weakness... The bob 
 and weave method isn't useless as some people say... its just that any type of smart boxer will 
 know that if you continually bob and weave... you will eventually get hit... if you keep rushing 
 in, you will taste a jab and if you try to brawl with low stamina, you will get toasted... The 
 gameplay is right on... I just wish the footwork aspect of it was a little bit quicker... maybe 
 if you make a skinner dude, his lack of weight will call for quicker feet... Throughout history, 
 there have been very few heavyweights over 225 that had quick feet.... 
  
  The story is what it is... its cool to see actually footage and see people talk so dramatically 
 about a character that doesn't exist... This game is a good break from fight night. the training 
 mini games are insane after you get the hang of it... its pretty convient how they do the button 
 pressing rhythm... its actually quite addictive once you get the swing of it... ode to guitar hero 
 minus the guitar of course... 
  
  Should you get this game... Honestly, just like any other 2k game that has come out as of recent- 
 its going to throw you off at first because you are expecting the game to blow you out of your 
 socks as soon as you turn it on but as any good video game- there is a learning curve that you 
 have to endure to stop people from crossing over and using the same formula of success as the last 
 game... The way the game moves and plays would be completely hindered if you were using analog 
 punching... What they don't tell you is that there is a 3rd controller option that allows you to 
 throw hooks with the left and right triggers and throw straights and jabs with the RB and LB buttons 
 and it certainly adds something special to how you box... They could have actually advertised the 
 game with those controller options in the forefront but I love the fact that they didn't... Once 
 you play using the triggers to punch with corresponding hands, it will take you to a new level... 
 this game is certainly worth its price in weight... The slight learning curve and attention to 
 detail make the game worth the effort... The emotion if a boxer who is getting beat shows in the 
 later rounds as they will begin to throw more punches and become more aggressive as losing is in 
 sight... Get the game if you like boxing because this is a great step in the right direction... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Muska2121
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 10, 2008 6:40 pm PT
Review:  This game is pretty good. The graphics are pretty good. The gameplay is solid and if you dont mind 
 the buttons for punching, you will probably enjoy it. the career is pretty solid, just a few minor 
 flaws. training is decent and its hard at times. This game is kind of difficult so be prepared 
 to get a little angry. The venues are great and the presantation is nice. a few minor flaw to a 
 good game. Ign gave this game a 5 and i thinks thats a little underrated. Its a solid game but 
 people just worry about Fight Night 4. You have to like this game for what it is and stop comparring 
 it to other games.
  Detail on blood and damage are more realistic (less spaghetti like) than fight night. The game 
 has a good sense of realism and is not over the top in areas. It feels just right alot of the time. 
 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
