-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Dragon Ball Z: Burst Limit
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/xbox360/action/dragonballzburstlimit/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Visuals really capture the feel of the anime.
 Six difficulty settings.
 Lengthy story mode that spans three DBZ sagas.
 Japanese voice acting.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Online play suffers from lag.
 Some especially cheap moves can be used with great effect.
 English voice acting.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jun 10, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.5
Critic Score: 7.3, 43 Review (s)
User Score: 8.1, 1,642 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Atari
Developer: Dimps Corporation
Genre: 3D Fighting
Date: Jun 10, 2008
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
This 3D fighting game can be enjoyed by newcomers to the DBZ universe and Super Saiyan wannabes 
 alike. 

  If you've managed to steer clear of the popular Dragon Ball Z anime for this long, you can be forgiven 
 for thinking that Burst Limit is a game best ignored. Nevertheless, you'd be wrong. Though this 
 3D fighter is full of references for the fans, it's a good game in its own right and can serve 
 as an easy point of entry into the DBZ universe.  

  Burst Limit goes out of its way to be accessible to newcomers with a thorough tutorial that walks 
 you through all of the controls while introducing you to a handful of the characters that make 
 up the game's roster. The fact that all of the Xbox 360 controller's face and shoulder buttons 
 have multiple uses can be daunting initially, but there are no complex combos or character-specific 
 special attacks to memorize, and even the craziest-looking moves aren't much more difficult to 
 perform than a straightforward punch to the face. You'll need some semblance of skill to time your 
 attacks and to block those of your opponents, but after spending half an hour with the tutorial, 
 you should have little trouble holding your own in a fight, regardless of which character you choose. 

           Even spectacular-looking attacks can be performed with a minimum of effort.      

 
  Only three combatants are available at the outset, but as you progress through the lengthy Z-Chronicles 
 story mode, you'll unlock the rest of the roster for a total of 21. In Z-Chronicles mode, you get 
 to play through three of the five Japanese Dragon Ball Z sagas, and you experience some of their 
 most memorable battles from the perspectives of both good and evil characters. The Saiyan, Frieza, 
 and Cell sagas as they're told here represent only a tiny fraction of the anime material, but there's 
 generally enough dialog between characters to at least let you know why they're fighting, and that's 
 all you need.  

  As you play through the 50-plus battles of Z-Chronicles mode for the first time, you'll inevitably 
 unlock most of what Burst Limit has to offer, including a good number of the game's "drama pieces." 
 These brief cutscenes are triggered by events during a fight and invariably benefit the character 
 to which they're relevant in some way. For example, drama pieces can increase one or more of your 
 attributes for a short time, restore some health, or call upon a partner to get you out of trouble. 
 Drama pieces also go a long way toward making Burst Limit feel more like the anime that it's based 
 on by employing quick camera cuts and dramatic close-ups that wouldn't be practical during normal 
 gameplay. By unlocking and subsequently equipping up to three different drama pieces, you can customize 
 a character to suit your play style, and to unlock all of them you need to play through the Z-Chronicles 
 several times. New partners, attacks, and character transformations can also be unlocked in this 
 mode, so you'll probably want to beat it at least once before venturing online to really put your 
 skills to the test.  

  Like any fighting game, Burst Limit is best when played against unpredictable human opponents, 
 largely because they're less likely to fall for some of the cheap tricks that you can get away 
 with against the AI on easier difficulty settings. In Versus mode, you can do battle either with 
 a friend who is sitting next to you or with other players from all over the world. Battles against 
 players from other continents often suffer from noticeable lag, but if you successfully search 
 for an opponent nearby, then silky smooth matchups are certainly possible. Incidentally, online 
 leaderboards track and grade your performances anytime you choose to fight in a ranked match, and 
 you can use that information to search for opponents of a similar skill level.  

  In addition to the Z-Chronicles and Versus modes, Burst Limit features a training mode in which 
 you can hone your skills against programmable opponents, and three different Trial modes designed 
 to test different aspects of your fighting prowess. For example, Survival mode tasks you with defeating 
 100 opponents one after another, which forces you to block or evade incoming attacks whenever possible 
 because only a portion of your health is restored between fights. Time Attack mode challenges you 
 to beat a series of 10 opponents as quickly as possible, and in Battle Point mode, you're awarded 
 a score based on the different moves that you use to win a series of fights.  

           Drama pieces go a long way toward making Burst Limit feel like Dragon Ball Z.      

 
  Regardless of which mode you're playing, Burst Limit is a game that makes an impact with its fast-paced 
 action and a sense of style that's lifted straight from the anime. The colorful visuals and occasionally 
 frantic animation will feel familiar if you're an existing fan of the series, and will impress 
 even if you're not. The environments you fight in are bland, and the edges of the characters aren't 
 always as crisp as they should be, but the overall look of Burst Limit is definitely greater than 
 the sum of its parts. On the other hand, the upbeat soundtrack is something of an acquired taste, 
 and the English voice acting isn't nearly as convincing as that of the Japanese, which is available 
 with subtitles and was clearly the only language used for lip-synching.  

  Dragon Ball Z: Burst Limit is a fighting game that can be enjoyed not only by DBZ fans but also 
 by those of you who don't know the difference between an aura spark and a Super Saiyan. You'll 
 undoubtedly get more from the game if you're familiar with your favorite character's storyline, 
 but understanding the complex relationships between some of the key characters simply isn't necessary 
 to derive pleasure from taking control of one and beating up another.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (117 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: x8VXU6
Rating: 6
Date: Apr 9, 2009 2:47 pm PT
Review:  At first I though this was a OK game but now that I have Street Fighter IV I cant even put this 
 bk in my 360. I blame this on SF4 cuz now its like" WTF is this do u call this a fighting game?". 
 but lets get to the Good, the Bad, and the Ugly. 
  The Good 
  this is a ok game for fans of the show like me but if u played SF4 u will be DISAPOINTED. I cant 
 even play alot of fighting games do to SF4 cuz its sooooooooo good u have to compare it to every 
 fighting game new or old. 
  the Bad 
  Its to short for the show. they dont have the buu saga it and they really should have put that 
 in there to make it a longer game. 
  The Ugly 
  The ugly is that I play SF4, Im like "Y am I playing this crap when I have SF4" Then I take that 
 game out and play SF4 online some more. also online it lags alot and that gets on my nerves. 
 
  Overall if ur a fan u will like it is ok but if u have SF4 dont waste ur time with it. I used 
 to like this game alot but SF4 just took all that away from me. so just get SF4 if u r planing 
 to get a fighting game!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jaden_Arbiter
Rating: 5
Date: Mar 26, 2009 9:26 am PT
Review:  With the first next-gen release from Atari practically anyone would be expecting something at least 
 remotely epic in nature, but that adage ends up being applicable only to the hardcore fans of the 
 series and not to those who simply want to enjoy a 21st century fighter in their lives. Justifying 
 what I have said isn't very difficult as the only positive to Burst Limit is its innovated engine 
 that allows blur effects within the fighting sequences, which is nothing less than characteristic 
 of the anime series that provides a nice feel. But what if we take that factor and throw it together 
 with characters who all practically share one or two x combos outside of their unique energy blasts? 
 
  
  That doesn't exactly compliment that new factor very well when this redundant characteristic of 
 the game's interface comes alive another round now does it? It should have stayed with the original 
 Budokai which only proves that Atari cared much more for aspects of your character's specials instead 
 of their basic attacks and what depth could have been created from expanding those basic attacks. 
 Come on Atari we all know nice visuals alone don't make a game great by nature, and that is something 
 they should have already learned.
  
  Aside from this you are stuck with a sequentially-choppy story mode that cuts between events and 
 leaves newcomers wondering what is actually happening as they progress, which leaves pretty blunt 
 footprints on Atari's inferences: only people who know DBZ will play this game and the story writing 
 is garbage to begin with so just canceling out any reference to it will give us a budget bonus 
 we could all use. 
  
  That would be rational in a normal context but not so much when you cut your way through a story 
 when its practically the only source of replay value at all to begin with for the players. An unrewarding 
 5G ratio challenge mode that forces you to bout against ten fighters in two rounds each without 
 losing is first on the list of secondary modes while you can also play online versus for a whopping 
 10G total: what incredible replay value right? Atari sure hit the spot for this game didn't they? 
 
  
  Based upon what I have briefly mentioned, Atari cared much more for the mere visuals of this title 
 without expounding on what would make traditional players -- not just the DBZ obsessive -- happy for 
 purchasing it instead of having them sit inside of their rooms in frustration over how little of 
 ingenuity is given to them overall from something that always has so much hype. So if you are not 
 obsessed about DBZ this is a definite rent, because not only are the achievements very hard to 
 get in this title you will be left to spamming once you experience the fighting interface but at 
 least remain somewhat elated by how cool your character will look doing it -- but really not that 
 'cool' to be objective. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ryuyasha
Rating: 5
Date: Mar 25, 2009 6:43 pm PT
Review:  Greetings to all of you that enjoy Anime tie in games and DBZ tie in games.
  
  Forgive me, this is my first review. Let's state the obvious real quick, The graphics are good, 
 all is detailed, so for the art lover in you, be happy. The play control was not all that bad to 
 be honest, but nothing special, I honestly believe they made it a little to simple, some will like 
 it and some will not. The music was nothing special, Tenkaichi 3 had better music, though it was 
 cool that the opening was in, Japanese. Here is some disappointing stuff: No powering up! (It powers 
 you up on its own) yeah I know what you are thinking, that's one of the things that make DBZ unique 
 and its gone! limited play modes, you have the story mode and versus, that's it, no tournament 
 mode, no special endurance mode, just two modes of play. Wait there is more, no upgrading items, 
 like in the other DBZ games, sad right? I forgot to mention, the (Xbox 360) on line play was rather 
 lame and by the time anyone reads this, no one will be playing it anymore. Incase you are curious, 
 it is pretty easy and takes about 10 hours to beat.
  
  As I said, first review, but they were lazy when they made this and it has no real replay value. 
 One more thing for the (XBox 360) users, there is no market place for it, which means, no new maps, 
 no new characters, what you see is what you get. I give it a 5.5 
  Thank you for reading my first review and if you have any questions or comments, please message 
 me, thanks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tedhlfc4life
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 24, 2009 10:53 am PT
Review:  Burst limit is the first and only so far dbz game on the 360 and ps3. At first i thought the game 
 should be alright because there are plenty of fight between the start and the end of the cell saga 
 but they skip like half of the fights in the story.
  
  But atleast the game offers a class control system and deadly graphics bit that isnt enough the 
 game has a list of characters in it that could have been twice as big for example instead of having 
 only two of the ginyu force in it why not put them all in it.
  
  The story mode of the game starts at raditz and ends when you kill cell but after you beat cell 
 you unlock two extra chapters these are about bardock and the other one broly these two are the 
 only two characters out of the movies! why not put in cooler or meta cooler in the game.
  
  There are other modes where you have to beat alot of opponents before you run out health and other 
 its all very repititive since theres barely 20 characters in the game.
  
  Probably the most entertaining part of the game is the two player which also has cutscenes which 
 is kind of cool.
  
  Anyway this is good but could have been alot better 8/10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darthpathfinder
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 24, 2009 7:15 am PT
Review:  Back in the day when DB and DBZ first came out i wanted to be like the people in the show... I wanted 
 to be able to fly and beat the crap out of people who where 10 times my size..... With this not 
 being an option a game is the next best thing.
  
  While Dragon Ball Z: Burst Limit is not a perfect game nor is it the first DBZ game it is one i 
 like the most so far. The look of the game feels right the fighing within the game seems just as 
 if it was from the show. The only problem is the story.
  
  It seem they missed alot of it out... they jump from fight to fight and if you have never seen the 
 show before you do not realy have an idea of what is going on.... othere than beat the crap out 
 of the guy over there.
  
  There are neat little things like people can jump in and save you when a condition is met or other 
 types of actions that can take place due to your actions.......
  
  The other downside to this game is that there is not throwing people into buildings and the like. 
 This to me is a big point as alot of the fights in the shows are like that.
  
  On the whole this is on ok game and it is worth it just for the Kamehameha. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mr_Oblivio
Rating: 6
Date: Mar 1, 2009 12:39 am PT
Review:  I was a bit of a fan of the series when I was a kid, and I liked playing Tenkaichi 3 but this game 
 doesn't even compare. It's more of a 3D fighter rather than the free roam and open battleground 
 that Tenkaichi offers. It has good graphics but the gameplay isn't very good. The fighting gets 
 old fast. You can't charge your character like you can in Tenkaichi, it does it by itself, The 
 fighting gets repetitive. As you go through the main story mode, you see a lot of the same kind 
 of fight scenes over and over again but with different characters. The fights are interrupted by 
 "partner" characters that "help" you but it just seems annoying to me. The story mode skips a LOT 
 of fights that happen in the series. For example, if you know the series, in this game, Trunks 
 never fights Frieza. There's nothing beyond the Cell Saga. Beyond the main story mode, the other 
 play modes don't give very much options. Theres a 100 battle survivor mode, it's tedious and boring. 
 
  
  Overall, I give the game a 6 because, it's kinda fun to play with someone but by yourself, not 
 really. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SoulTaker23
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 3, 2009 4:06 pm PT
Review:  This game had so much more potential then any other dbz game to date and did imply the idea, but 
 just didn't finish it for hardcore dbz standards and even a fighting game in most general areas. 
 The graphics are: superb, great. astonishing, dream come true-like. The drama pieces may get annoying 
 after awhile, but were a very good addition and a splendid idea just some fixes should be looked 
 into. The voice acting makes you feel like your watching a dbz movie. The cut scenes are very spicy 
 and touched up to very high delight. The way the fighters begin the fight by doing a sorta pre-fight 
 is very smooth and fun to watch every time even though there are only a few differences. The gameplay 
 is also very smooth and combos are easy to get used to and intriguing to keep doing even if its 
 pressing "x" twenty times. The beams are colorful and as explosive as you would expect in the dbz 
 episodes/movies/etc. The new fighting system is set to where you don't need to care about powering 
 up, but instead just kicking butt and not worrying about ki. The transformations are now very fair 
 so that even if your Gohan and go super saiyan 2 than your still at an advantage as well as a disadvantage 
 because you will gain strength for every transformation but defense decreases as well. Now you 
 will think twice about going all out and allows other players to explore other characters instead 
 of everyone focusing on the same ones over and over and over. So now you can play as krillen and 
 fight against gohan and not worry about being overwhelmed because he goes super saiyan 2 and your 
 stuck at unlocked potential. The online competing system needs a lot of work not because of the 
 fact that you can only join a persons games and must put up with their settings no matter how unfair, 
 but the lag cannot be bared for long it simply makes you wish you had just gone out and bought 
 one of the ps2 dbz games because its just a prettier, faster paced, alot more fun and different 
 in a good way of dbz boudikia 2. (forgive my spelling please) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MangoMato
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 1, 2009 9:06 pm PT
Review:  Graphics : Outstanding. Flashy, and enjoyable to look at. Great "Power struggles", and the effects 
 when you hit someone are great as always.
  
  Sounds/music : Like every other DBZ game, the sound is great. Even if you're standing in another 
 room, you'll know if someone is pulling off a kamehameha.
  
  Voices: The voices can be switched to English/Japanese. The english cast is the same as you've 
 heard on the anime, and vice versa. Though, I must say on one part, when Goku is fighting Frieza, 
 Frieza had a pretty crappy line.
  
  Gameplay : Fun, fast, exciting, just like DBZ should be. You can pull off various combos, unique 
 to each character.
  
  Story: It goes from the Saiyan saga to the Cell saga, a little short if you ask me, but there's 
 still online and the 100 man survival mode!
  
  Online: Even though it can be a little laggy and unpopulated, it's fun when you get a good game 
 started.
  
  So that's it, even though I gave it a good score, I recommend you rent it, since you can finish 
 the story mode and get the characters in one play through. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mark30001
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 29, 2008 8:17 pm PT
Review:  This is the best of all dragonballz games, and i've played nearly all of them. This game beats 
 tenkachi hands down. The action is fast along with the beatiful graphics and effects, it actually 
 feels likes your in the show fighting or getting beat down. It has online, and I know how people 
 say they have lag and but i have yet to have any lag online, everythings smooth for me. When you 
 fight online, and if you loose, it just proves you need to change up your strategy and better your 
 fighting skills just like on the show. Make sure your internet connection is fast enough to handle 
 the game online. Going super saiyan is cooler than ever and makes your feel powerful and really 
 a super saiyan. All the people that get mad when they loose give up to fast and dont even give 
 the game a chance which is unforntunant for them.
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: punkdsk8erdude
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 27, 2008 9:17 am PT
Review:  I love this game.
  And for those who don't like DBZ, who cares!
  This is a GREAT fighting game.
  There are no other games where you can fly around and shoot beams 
 outta your hands.
  This game is unique to other fighting series, and is in a class of its own.
  Its fast paced battles 
 that last FOREVER which i love!
  One thing that always annoys me in fighting games is how little it takes to end a round.
  These 
 rounds can truely last upwards of 5 minutes per round!
  There are so many difficulty settings its perfect for anyone.
  Its a very underappreciated game.
 
  THe one downside is there arent many levels, and there arent that many characters either.
  There couldve been more of both, and it wouldve been better.
  Also, the story mode was too short.
 
  It couldve included a lot more battles per saga, and it couldve extended further to include more 
 saga, s and i think it shouldve.
  But the online play was great too.
  Thing is, not a lot of people play online anymore :/
  Anyway, all around, if your looking for 
 just a fun fighter, or if your a fan of DBZ, get this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MighteyMouse2
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 11, 2008 7:26 am PT
Review:  As i expected, this game was a bit lacking in the depth department, as was the first Budokai on 
 PS2. There were a lack of characters and major battles and the story just really covered the first 
 main part of the Z saga. 
  
  The graphics were great and the gameplay was easy to pick up and addictive. 
  
  I am confident 
 that in later installments the world's will grow, more characters will be introduced, and better 
 fighting styles will come forward. 
  
  Because this was DBZ's first jump to a next gen system, i didn't expect perfection, but i was a 
 little disappointed with what was put on the table. 
  
  I am just excited for the next couple installments to come out as they get closer to a really good 
 dbz game. 
  
  In my opinion DBZ Budokai 3 was the best multiplayer or single player fighting game out there, 
 ever made. it was phenomenal. so that is what i am hoping for with this next gen series of dbz 
 games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gucake916
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 8, 2008 8:54 pm PT
Review:  This game is amazing because of its cool graphics and new added moves to it . I think this is the 
 best in the series because of everything i just said in the first sentence . It looks amazing and 
 everything is just right in this one . It shorta feels like your playing the budokai version but 
 seems like its evolved . The only thing that ticked me of is the character shortage , thats all 
 . Because wouldn't the GT series be even better if they added it in . ANYWAYS , that's my opinion 
 . That's all gamespot friends . Game spot is telling me to write more in this review but I can't 
 think of anything to say so yeah , i'm going to put alot of periods 
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
   
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: desmorsmorde
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 11, 2008 8:56 pm PT
Review:  I love the Dragonball Z Series, I consider myself to be one of its biggest fans, I know everything 
 about the series, and have played all the games, and I am here to tell you all that Dragonball 
 Z Burst Limit is the best game in the series. 
  
  Normally I have a life and friends, but when this game came out, I didn't for like a month, lol. 
 I love every game in the DBZ line (except Legacy of Goku one) , but Burst Limit is the BEST!!!!!! 
 Great Graphics awesome move high replay value, this game has everything. For me, this game even 
 beat Grand Theft Auto IV (which also rocks) The only problem for me is the short story and the limited 
 21 characters, but I got over that pretty quickly. I recomend this game to every living organism 
 with acces to an X-Box 360 or a PS3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shantmaster_K
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 10, 2008 9:59 pm PT
Review:  This game has great graphics for an anime style game. Probably the best graphics of any DBZ game 
 or the best DBZ game in general. It covers three different DBZ sagas so it is a pretty long game, 
 especially for a DBZ game. There is over 50 different battles in the story mode and there is also 
 the survival mode where you face 100 enemies 1 after the other. And also the voice acting is very 
 well done. 
  
  You start the game basically re-enacting Dragonball Z: Season 1 episodes, called the Z Chronicles. 
 You play as Goku fighting Raditz starting out. As you go through the game you meet a lot of new 
 characters not mentioned in previous DBZ games There are a total of 21 characters to make up the 
 DBZ roster. Another good thing about the game is that the moves are not as difficult. Huge powerful 
 moves are really not that much harder then just a regular melee move and there aren't any huge 
 combo moves to memorize. 
  
  The game has a lot of features and modes you can do including the story mode: The Z Chronicles, 
 training, tutorial, versus, survival mode, and more. 
  
  Overall I think this is a decent game. Probably a great game for anyone who is a big DBZ fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vergil2016
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 28, 2008 6:53 pm PT
Review:  OK burstlimit is a dragonball z game in the series so of course its ok but it was kind of a letdown 
 you dont have the big options like in the ones for ps like the world tourney that was fun and it 
 was a time waster but still it is a fun game to play with friedns and it is also a time waster 
 theres a survival and you have to win 100 matches to get a achievement I mean what game would that 
 it takes to much time if you do that for fun go get a life it takes like at least an hour to finish 
 and the story was good but it couldve been longer in the first hour I had it I was already like 
 25% into the freakin game so that couldve been better and thers not taht many charecters to choose 
 from duraning the game and the ones that are in the game you unlock realy fast also so theres nothing 
 else to achieve except being able to finish the game at least they shouldve done it like 20 to 
 10 more charecters to choose from or take out all the ginyu force people there all so retarded 
 to play as unless you use the guy who can change bodys I thaught that was pretty cool but in the 
 end its an average game in a series but its a "been there done that" kind of game so now Virgil2016 
 /out/ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Trogeton
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 13, 2008 9:29 pm PT
Review:  I have played every Dragonball Z game that has been released since the very first Dragonball Z 
 Budokia and this one I have to say is one of the most improved, I mean in all perspectives from 
 the fighting styles to the facial expressions. Just about all of the most major activities, and 
 battles scenes shown in the actual series.
  Mostly for DBZ fans, this is a definite pick up, and this is not a game you would want to just 
 have for a little while, this will keep you busy for several hours each day, the controls are more 
 accurate and new fighting engines put into the game that none of the other past games had, nice 
 changes Even the loading it impressive. I have to say, all around superior improvements and additions 
 to this game, It's definitely good to see the new Z Chronicles menu change and brought back some 
 of the original features that I liked from the very first DBZ Budokia.. Choosing the episode you 
 want to play, Just Nice to see some of the old programming put into this game still made it a spectacular 
 game. 
  
  I have to say this game definitely needs some looking into 
::::::

::::::
UserName: frogcrazyant1
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 11, 2008 8:46 pm PT
Review:  when will the producers of dragon ball z games stop making the exact same game over and over and 
 over, with the same characters and the same moves and the same battles and the same storyline every 
 time? this time they have it for the xbox 360 and yea it look great but it plays like a retarded 
 mouse in a cafe hotel cinema bar. i kno that didnt make sense but whatever, anyways. the cutscenes 
 during the gameplay of the most stupidest stuff like trunks yelling and picolo yelling and gasping....... its 
 not cool. its pointless of all the cutscenes for everyone. the storyline i cant talk about because 
 its the exact same when Dragon Ball Budika Came out like 6 years ago. nothing really changed except 
 graphics and one thing that i really liked about this game. The special Ki moves. U dont have to 
 deploy them by charging frickin R1 and then do you stupid down triangle left to deploy likr Spirit 
 bomb.
  now its just right and b and there you have it. I AM a dragonball z fan but how can i keep playing 
 a new rip off game every 6 months of the same poop when they do not make new episodes? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XCyberForceX
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 6, 2008 1:35 pm PT
Review:  Opinion - I just a big kid and I love my Japanese Manga cartoons! So when I had a chance to play 
 DBZ on the 360 I jumped at it without even waiting for the review.
  And . . . I wasn't dissapointed.
  
  Good - You get to play with characters from various different 
 sagas. Freeza, Cell, and more! The graphics is fantastic, just like watching the show. The controls 
 are rather basic and depends relys on timing and who can crunch them out faster. But that's not 
 bad. Instead of heavily focusing on giving you arthritis this game focuses on the matches. The 
 sheer ferocity of plummeting your opponent with a multitude and lightening fast punches and kicks. 
 As aspects of the show is here in the game.
  
  Bad - Nearly non-existent online play and when you find someone to play the lag can kill the fun. 
 In game single player navigation sometimes is hard to figure out.
  
  Overall - I give it B+ since it perfectly captured the essence of the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Iqen
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 22, 2008 6:28 am PT
Review:  Burst Limit is the first Dragonball Z game to hit the next-gen consoles, and it proves to be a 
 worthy experience for the Xbox 360. 
  
  The first good thing one may notice from the game is the graphics. Burst Limit still has the same 
 'anime' style graphics from it's prequels, but it has improved dramatically. The energy beams look 
 incredibly sharp and the character textures is also amazing. The sound is quite impressive, and 
 the voice acting is pretty decent at most. But the explosions and sound effects seem to leave a 
 good impression on the game.
  
  The graphics may prove to be a good factor, but the main improvement in this game is the gameplay. 
 The battle system is unique and stands out from the other DBZ games. It's easy controls, fast-paced 
 action and advancing attacks gives the game a worthy status. Every character has his own definitive 
 way of fighting and brilliant finishing moves. Each and every character differs from one and other 
 by means of countless techniques and styles. Although there are very few chracters in the game, 
 each character's depth is very immense. The online mode is quite smooth, but it may be a bit laggy 
 from time to time that may harm the game's potential. Another great addition are the drama pieces, 
 which are mild cutscenes that cut in between fights and add a storyline twist to the match.
  
  The story mode travels from the very beginning of the DragonBall Z saga till the very end. 
 Interesting cut-scenes shape up the Dragonball Z story decently throughout the game and gives a 
 thorough idea of the major story of the whole Dragonball Z saga. One minor problem is that it is 
 quite short, but it guarantees one it wanting to play again and again in harder difficulties.
 
  
  
  ~Pro's~
  -Amazing gameplay that stands off from it's predecessors
  -Graphics are extremely impressive
  -Each character consists of completely unique fighting styles
 
  
  ~Con's~
  -Quite short Story mode
  -Online games tend to be laggy once in a while
  -Few number of characters
  
  
  
  This game is an altogether a decent try-out for all 360 
 owners and a must have for fans of the Dragonball Z games. It does have it's flaws, but those are 
 exteremely minor in making one notice the potential that Dragonball Z: Burst Limit actually is. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Eckokid8301
Rating: 4.5
Date: Sep 20, 2008 11:17 am PT
Review:  I got lied to. Dragonball Z Budokai was great... way back in the day. Budokai Tenkaichi is an excellent 
 DBZ game. why don't people ever just IMPROVE on existing product. Budokai Tenkaichi 3, with Xbox 
 360 graphics, with added moves, and seemingly updated speed would have sold millions more than 
 this half-assed waste of 60 dollars. Who ends their game 75% through the full story, honestly no 
 Buu ? Who let this get out ? On top of the shortness, you have what 20-23 characters, come on. 
 All twenty of the characters play the exact same way, and there's only 1 or 2 nice burst rush type 
 moves. i got tired of having kicked someone into that rush technique and slamming on all buttons 
 like a kid after three or four times. Again, graphically excellent, but you have to know by now 
 that video games need substance, and flash. Burst limit is like the pretty girl, that's an idiot. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Exiss
Rating: 5.5
Date: Sep 18, 2008 4:41 pm PT
Review:  You know who's ironic? Fanboys. Enjoying a game that may not be critically prestigious for personal 
 reasons is one thing, and enjoying a well-known game that does what's popular at the time is another 
 thing, but when one defends a game blindly when they themselves refuse to accept that they deserve 
 more for their buck isn't just silly, it's saddening. 
  
  "We live in a matrix, my friends" a teacher of mine once said, where brand loyalty outweighs common 
 sense and what we learn in schools is not even close to as easy to remember as the jingles that 
 we hear everyday at home from the television. Don't believe me? Finish this off, "Ba-da-ba-ba-ba"
 
  
  "I'm lovin' it" 
  
  Right? When we as a society can recall McDonald's advertisements easier than current events or 
 important ideas, something is WRONG. 
  
  It's okay though because I'm not going to keep trying to shove such invasive thoughts in your face. 
 At least not thoughts that stir up multiple feelings. I'm just making a point that leads into my 
 feelings about the Dragon Ball Z franchise and Atari. 
  
  The third item is always the best. Somebody quote me someday on that. Remember how good Budokai 
 3 and Tenkaichi 3 were compared to their predecessors? There have been three Budokai games, three 
 Tenkaichi games, and now Atari has conspired with Funimation and Dimps to create yet another sub-franchise 
 with the DBZ cast. There will be two more Burst Limit games, folks. And they will be far superior 
 to this game released a few months back. Why? 
  
  Because this is how they work, I've written about this before in my Tenkaichi 3 review. I have 
 no doubts that Atari and friends consciously produce unpolished and underachieving games without 
 good reason. The reason is in fact very good: People will buy DBZ games because of brand loyalty. 
 The game can be short and lacking of the depth already found in PREVIOUS GAMES but people will 
 still buy it. 
  
  Burst Limit is a dust-buster game. It cleans up the remnants of the previous series of games to 
 create a new one. People buy it and inevitably begin talking about what needs to be added to the 
 next game, because the game is obviously incomplete. Burst Limit does this insultingly by neglecting 
 the final major storyline of the anime it's based off of (Majin Buu for people who watch) , leaving 
 out details from other stories (What happened to Androids 19 and 20?) , and reducing the number 
 of characters dramatically (around 20 I think?) . Something that the Tenkaichi series was based 
 around, lots of characters! (around 90 unique characters, maybe more, with no transformations included)
 
  
  Burst Limit's problem is that it behaves as though it were already its inevitable sequel, Burst 
 Limit 2 in that it is full of padding. The established capsule customization of character from 
 the Budokai and Tenkaichi series has been thrown out completely in favor of a stupidly simplistic 
 Drama Piece system (is it even a system?) . 
  
  Essentially, one enters a fight after equipping three Drama Pieces, which interrupt the fight to 
 activate special effects. In theory, this should add randomness to the game that can make a fight 
 unpredictable. In practice, it disrupts gameplay with cutscenes that cannot be skipped and effects 
 that most of which do very little to aid the player who is almost certainly capable enough to win 
 without the Drama Pieces at all.
  
  The story mode is shorter than acceptable based on the bar set by previous games and longer than 
 necessary due to irrelevant padding that should have been included as an addition to a complete 
 game. Although the alternate, "What If?" stories with Bardock and Broly are amusing, they are overly 
 long and do not make up for the lack of the original stories. Again, why are canon events such 
 as Androids 19 and 20 attacking totally ignored while Bardock's fictional visit to Earth is so 
 drawn out? Why is Majin Buu ignored while Broly gets a weird sub-story that half resembles his 
 actual storyline? Why? 
  
  Presentation is weak in comparison with the style and flair of previous DBZ games. The menu screen 
 is ugly and lacking in color. The cutscenes are repetitive and (in the case of Drama Pieces) unable 
 to be skipped. The characters and environments look great in HD but the attacks are missing the 
 outrageous luster they had in the Tenkaichi and even Budokai series. 
  
  Voice acting is BAD. The mouths don't match the English voices, all of whom seem bored to death 
 constantly (with the exception of Broly who has more to say than ever before, curiously) . Music 
 is more of the uninteresting crap from the Tenkichi series, why can't we have Bruce Falconer's 
 American soundtracks or the original Japanese music? 
  
  All of these things could be forgiven if the gameplay was solid, but it is not. It is barebones 
 and simplistic. The original Budokai 3 fighting engine could do much much more with combos. To 
 pun the "In Soviet Russia" joke, "In Dragon Ball Z Burst Limit, combo performs you!" And this is 
 very true. Smack the same button and your character will perform a complete combo every time. With 
 punches, kicks, and a smashing finish no matter what. Talk about an easy game. 
  
  Now one can raise the difficulty of the CPU, or play online with others, but the game's system 
 is still overly shallow and lacks staying power. I'm willing to go out on a limb and say that Burst 
 Limit 2 will have a revamped fighting system, because nobody, not even fanboys should buy into 
 this cheap slop that Atari puts out. 
  
  Unless the trend changes, and it probably won't with brand loyalty running the minds of consumers, 
 skip Burst Limit, skip Burst Limit 2, and maybe try Burst Limit 3, because the trend shows that 
 the third item is always superior. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Demon_Fox_Child
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 11, 2008 5:02 am PT
Review:  this game is great but it is missing a few things! like what happened to the RPG part of the game. 
 This game was a lot better with the RPG part. Now it is all flash, no substance. still a great 
 game would be better. the moves in this came from DBZ Budokai another road for the PSP. most of 
 the moves came from all the DBZ games & episodes. Another thing there are some mispronouced words 
 throughout the whole game. wolf fang fist could hav been longer a least. Goku's moves are always 
 the same but stronger in the series. kinda feakish & how does final flash blow up the world? but 
 it doesn't even go like the Kamehameha does any more! Most of the moves suck in the game anyway 
 because they where gay in the series? i don't even own any of the box sets cause the series was 
 so long! this game deserves the rating it got from gamespot a 7.2 end of story! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: theantihero101
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 6, 2008 5:29 pm PT
Review:  Dragonball Z Burst Limit is a good start for the Next Gen series. The only things are missing is 
 that they never made it through to the Buu saga or have more characters in the game. The good thing 
 is that they've included Broly & Bardock in the game. Also they've included the Budokai old school 
 style fighting (Obviously from Dimps) with a few twists. The Story Mode is very good but it could've 
 expanded farther. Online mode is good but it lags depending on the speed. Graphics are awesome 
 and the design is beautiful. The FUNimation Voice Cast, they sound less enthusiastic than the previous 
 Dragonball Z games. Okay, in some parts they sound more enthusiastic. But not as good in the other 
 parts. Overall it's a good game, but it needs some improvements. If they made a sequel to this 
 game, hopefully they'll expand the gameplay even further and have more characters and expand the 
 story mode. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bored_gamer
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 4, 2008 3:08 pm PT
Review:  I used to be a big fan of Dragonball Z when I was younger. I followed up on probably everything, 
 and I even watched it when it was uncut on Cartoon Network. Burst Limit is alright if you're a 
 hardcore DBZ fan but it wouldn't be bad for people who never heard of it either. Let's be honest 
 here; who HASN'T heard of Dragonball Z? I mean, it's been around for years and it's still epic 
 but at the same time, forgotten about even today. What I didn't like about the game is that it 
 takes place from the Saiyan Saga till the Cell (Android) Saga. I think it should've gone a little 
 further, and they missed out on some of the characters that were in the sagas too. The Cell Jrs, 
 Android 19, Dr. Gero and Hercule were also in the Android saga. The Frieza saga missed out on Jeice, 
 Guldo, Dodoria, Zarbon and Burter, not to mention Nail who was one of the Namekian warriors. The 
 drama pieces, although cool, it feels unnecessary because it interrupts the fights. Some of the 
 cutscenes were well-done and some were epic when they reenacted some of those unforgettable scenes, 
 although the original anime is better. The gameplay is not like Tenkaichi, but more like that of 
 Shin Budokai for the PSP. The theme song is pretty cool too and it's written by Hironobu Kageyama, 
 the singer for both Dragonball Z theme songs in japanese. I have to say that I played better DBZ 
 games than this. If there's gonna be a Burst Limit 2 or some other game similar to this, it should 
 be better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wake_of_Eden
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 4, 2008 5:33 am PT
Review:  Dragon Ball Z: Burst Limit is alright, but that's about all you can say about it. Like most other 
 games, it has the flashy bangs that will dazzle your interest and get you hyped for what's coming 
 next. Sadly, you'll just be kept there waiting. I'm not a very big fan of fighter games, but I've 
 played a couple of the Budokai's years ago because I was a fan. Seeing that I never played one 
 in so long, I was kind of excited that Burst Limits was coming out for the Xbox 306. So, I bought 
 it on the day it came out. 
  
  Firstly, the graphics are absolutely perfect. Everything looks better than I've ever seen it. They 
 even look better than the anime itself.
  
  Secondly, one of the main things I thought was nice was the drama pieces. A cut scene interrupts 
 the battle and puts on a little show. Those were cool at first, but later on when you just want 
 to get down to what you bought the game for, you'd rather kamehameha the game itself. For the first 
 run through on the normal setting they are alright. As you start playing on a higher difficulty 
 they're annoying since you're right into it then all of a sudden WHAM "look at me I R angwee!" 
 If there were a way to turn off the drama piece cut scenes, and leave the buff's/debuff's do their 
 thing, there wouldn't be any complaints. 
  
  For the voice acting, kind of in the middle. Most was alright, although some of it is pretty atrocious. 
 Not to mention that they words are not in sync with the characters lips. Except for the screams.. 
 LOUD NOISES! lol. I hate dubbing, especially ones as bad as that.
  
  Time for the gameplay! The first run through was pretty easy, and too short. But most fighting 
 games don't last that long story wise anyway. Most of the characters handle the same and the controls 
 aren't too difficult. If you can fight with one, you can do it with anyone. Although not every 
 fighter has as good of moves and finishes as the other. They all do around the same amount of damage, 
 but some are easier to hit your opponent with. Except for a handful, if you've got a strategy to 
 beat one character, then you've beat them all. The flying was pretty weak as well. There is no 
 freedom like the other games.
  
  Finally, online mode. The challenge level steps up a notch here if you come head to head with another 
 seasoned player! But lag kills everything! Most of the matches I've played lagged, other than with 
 people who live in the same continent. Say good-bye to those fast punches, it doesn't take Chichi 
 to dodge these ones. 
  
  The time spent to finish the game one time through was pretty disappointing, and quite enough! 
 Although stepping up to Very Hard Mode once your done that makes it feel more like a challenge. 
 But if you're not a die hard DBZ fan, it's not worth it to go through it again. The only reason 
 I'm doing it is for the achievements.
  
  Overall it's an alright game for those who want something different for a change. But if you want 
 to play it, rent it first, it's not worth buying for 60$. You'll get everything you want from it 
 within a day or two. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Meto_360
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 26, 2008 12:25 pm PT
Review:  Over the years theres been many dragonball z games. Some where good like this one, but some where 
 bad. And this one in my opinion I think is the best out of all the dragonball z games. It has it 
 has its ups and downs. Like the vioce acting is great , the words they say aren't correctly dubbed 
 in (its hard to explain) . And a few more characters wouldn't have hurt either. And top it all off 
 the game is too short. Like depending on how good you are, you'll beat it in like 2-3 days.
  The Story. The game is what happened in the show. Like you start off in the saiyin saga and end 
 off at the cell saga. And if you've seen the show , the storys pretty self-explainitory. Now when 
 you go through the sagas , you'll notice they cut out a couple characters. Like they didn't include 
 all the characters of the ginyu force, they only have captain ginyu and recoome. Also they don't 
 have some of frieza's minions, like zarbon and doboria, and a whole bunch of other characters. 
 My favorites are teen gohan and vegeta. 
  Now the gameplay. The gameplay is actually fun. Like its face-paced, and theres like never really 
 a dull moment. Now you can transform, ex if your goku you can go kioken and then go super saiyin. 
 Also the blocking has improved. Like you can delflect ki blasts and block special moves like hellzone 
 grenade, but its hard blocking. You have like i think 20 characters too chose from. But like i 
 said a couple more wouldn't have hurt. And you have 5 stages but they have like different looks 
 to them , its hard to explain. Oh , and theres also an online multiplayer. Which isn't bad, but 
 some of the people you are cheap. Like all they do is kamehameha and ki blast. And the one that 
 don't ki blast and just fight, are really good.
  The graphics. The graphics are good for a dragonball z game. Its basically a 3-D version of the 
 show. 
  The sound. The sound effects sound like effects from the show. Which makes the game better and 
 more enjoyable. And the game has a good sountrack.
  So overall its a great game. It has its flaws and stuff but its still good. And if your a fan of 
 the show like me its gonna be a great game for you. So go and buy it.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: richard2day15
Rating: 2.5
Date: Aug 25, 2008 2:24 pm PT
Review:  OK I have been waiting to get this game for almost 2 months now. When I picked up this game, I 
 loved it... at first. The graphics were a little better than there Budoki 3 counter-part and the 
 combat seemed slightly the same. Of course the story line hasn't changed, but in battle now, they 
 show important parts of the story now, which was pretty cool at first, but when i wanted these 
 battles over and done with, and the battle kept stopping for 10 to 40 seconds it started to get 
 me angry.
  Then I found out that there is only about 20 playable characters, and only 3 sagas. This just blew 
 my mind. Budoki 3 had about 40 or 50ish characters and all the sagas not to mention the Tenkiachi 
 series!! Overall this game about made me cry and was completely unsatisfied with it. Its sad that 
 I am probably there biggest fan and have to say that, It is 2008 and they put this on a next-gen 
 console.... I'm saddened... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zHELLDOG
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 23, 2008 7:51 pm PT
Review:  Dragonball Z: Burst limit is the first in the series to be released on the xbox 360 and the playstation 
 3, and is also the first, in my opinion, to be actually enjoyable. I say this because the other 
 games on the ps2 are for some reason more complicated. The controls here are drastically simplifed 
 so that even a virgin to the game series can jump in and whoop some ass within the first few minutes. 
 Hell, I butchered Raditz in the demo on my first try on normal and he only took away 1 bar of health. 
 And I suck at 3d fighting games... very badly. The graphics look great, the blasts and beams and 
 such are simply beautiful, and the animation is very smooth and quick. The sound is great, but 
 I DETEST the dialogue in this game. They couldnt even put the dialogue from the show into the game? 
 Thats not even too hard to do. And they say "darn you (it, etc) " way too much. The only time you'll 
 hear someone swear in the game is when Trunks fights Broly. He says "damn it! i have to stop him" 
 or something like that. My question is why make 1 person swear and the rest appear like wimps and 
 say darn it and the like. I couldnt see why they didnt make the rest of them have the ability to 
 swear. Hell, they did in the first 2 seasons of the show, why not do it in a game? 
  The gameplay is fun and grows on you, but the "z chronicles" only give a small fraction of the 
 storyline, and leaves some big gaps for the people who are not familiar with the Dragonball universe. 
 The story mode is way too short. I beat it in the first few hours of playing it (and i unlocked 
 every character and stage in said time) . One of my complaints is that this game does not cover 
 the buu sagas, and doesn't have the most awesomest villian in the series EVER... COOLER!! They found 
 the time to put in Broly but not Cooler?!?! Are you serious? And its not that big a deal but its 
 a big letdown for me. 
  
  Putting aside my dissapointment, I really do like this game, mainly because it is newcomer friendly, 
 as well as hardcore masochist friendly. There are six difficulties for the cpu, so you'll find 
 one that entertains you. 
  The special moves are essentially all equal, but they have their differences. Not to mention they 
 all look awesome and are simple to use.
  
  Graphics:9
  Sound:7
  Control:7
  Gameplay:9
  Worthyness:10
  
  All in all, Dragonball Z: Burst Limit is a great game, but falls 
 short of being mind blowing due to its short and patchwork storyline and its cliche dialogue. I 
 recommend it to anyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: I_AM_AROD______
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 18, 2008 9:48 pm PT
Review:  I played this at my friend's house. I have played DBZ games before (there one of my favorite fighting 
 games and the only thing I like about the DBZ franchise) . This game is a nice addition to the series, 
 the graphics are better, the controls are slightly modified from the Budokai series and is better, 
 but there is flaws: the game is way too short and not hard, but maybe there is more when you try 
 it on a harder mode or something. The best part about the game is playing against a friend, it 
 can get very competitive is really fun. In retrospect, the game is really fun but not quite enough 
 to pay $50. Rent it or borrow it or wait until it cost  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bez2083
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 16, 2008 10:33 pm PT
Review:  I bought DBZ Burst Limit about a month ago and enjoyed the game for the most part. The graphics 
 were authentic, the controls were smooth, and it was true to DBZ form with the exception of a few 
 things. Firstly, the English voice acting was terrible. Recoome sounded like a retarded Arnold 
 Schwarzenegger (not too hard to do) . Secondly, the environment wasn't really interactive as it 
 is in DBZ BT3 and the previous installments.
  
  Lastly, it didn't contain all the characters of DBZ. While I understand that the roster is complete 
 up until the Cell Series, it would've been nice to play as a SSJ3 or SSJ4 or as a fused character. 
 Aside from that, the game is great fun for hardcore fans, but after awhile, it just feels incomplete.
 
  
  Some highlights of the game include an extensive training mode, ultimate ki moves that look exactly 
 like old DBZ episodes, and the Survival and Time Attack modes. Low points include the lame and 
 unnecessary "Drama Pieces" and the lack of fighting stages. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: combatsoldier
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 16, 2008 3:25 am PT
Review:  I love me some good old dragonball z. To be honest when i downloaded and played the demo i was 
 extremely dissapointed. However with that said, and being a huge fan for over 15 years I had to 
 buy the game. It delivered and left no bad taste in my mouth like the demo displayed.
  
  This game offers the best graphics out of any fighting game that I have ever seen. Just absolutely 
 beautiful and takes full advantage of next gen techonology. The gameplay is solid and the controls 
 are easy after you practice for several hours. However this game has a couple of downsides.
  
  First off the game is just entirely to short. Thats fine it ended after the cell saga. but 
 they jumped around the story skipping so much that could have been added. The 30 something characters 
 dont dissapoint but they couldve added many more such as all of Friezas henchmen and Ginyu Force. 
 So unless you know the storyline then you will be completely lost.
  
  Now I wanted to give this game a perfect 10 but to be fair to you guys I have to be honest. The 
 story is broken so it does not offer anything welcome to new dbz fans. Atleast this game has online, 
 or thats what I though until I actually played online. It is very easy for other people to find 
 a glitch in the system and capitalize. They will get you with the same cheap move over and over 
 and over again making it extremely frustrating and almost a miracle if you can counter. 
  
  So all in all, I love this game because I love DBZ, but if I were a new fan that just bought the 
 game cause it looked good then I would be pissed off. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FullMetalSephy
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 16, 2008 3:21 am PT
Review:  DBZ: Burst Limit is a stylish 3D Fighter, with visuals finally close enough to that of the actual 
 series. From the innate accuracy of the outside worlds, to the flames of aura that surround the 
 fighters during combat, there is much to look at here. Blur effects during battle add even more 
 to the excitement of the fight, as the gameplay compounds upon the fact that this is as close to 
 the anime as you will get.
  
  this game is the best game to ever come out to the next gen computers this is the game that DBZ 
 Fan have been waiting for the gameplay on it look exelient andi hope ti get it my self XD long 
 live Drangon Ball Z 
  
  Maybe it's because it's been awhile since I've even watched an episode of DBZ. Maybe my resentment 
 towards much of these anime-based fighters has reached its limit (not counting Bleach on the DS) . 
 But this isn't about that. There is much left to be desired with this fighter, with many certain 
 nuances that were an easy fix.
  
  
  
  You remember during certain high-class fights in the anime, where there was a near-symphony of 
 lighting-quick vanishing attacks, one right after the other? That feat can be felt here. Multiple 
 dodge strikes and recovery techniques have the ability to keep the pace frantic and fun provided 
 your timing is right. Thankfully, there are tutorial stages that both explain the above, and keep 
 in step with certain storylines.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: FaceKicker
Rating: 5
Date: Aug 3, 2008 9:27 am PT
Review:  The game quality is good, visualy and all that stuff is very nice but that's not enough for the 
 players...
  I mean, the characters, way too few, no Videl, Buu, Kid Buu, Super Buu, good Buu, Dodoria, Kui, 
 Zarbon, King Cold, Cooler,.....
  
  If just only those named above were in the game it would be a big improvement there's no doubt 
 about that.
  And then I'm maybe in half of the whole crew that's missing in the game....
  
  The online feature will suffer because of that too, I don't want to play against just a few 
 amount of different characters if you know what I mean.
  Also the online thing is laggy what makes it annoyihg, VERY annoying....
  
  3,5 years was needed 
 to make this game and it's still so disappointing, just can't believe it, my words may be hard 
 but it's just a fact... I would rather wait 10 years for a game that will go on for 10 years instead 
 of 10 months (not literally)
  
  More options = more pleasure
  
  There's no other way to put it.
  
  I gave my game already away to a friend because it's so 
 disappointing 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RAVEZero
Rating: 6
Date: Aug 3, 2008 2:59 am PT
Review:  Maybe it's because it's been awhile since I've even watched an episode of DBZ. Maybe my resentment 
 towards much of these anime-based fighters has reached its limit (not counting Bleach on the DS) . 
 But this isn't about that. There is much left to be desired with this fighter, with many certain 
 nuances that were an easy fix.
  
  DBZ: Burst Limit is a stylish 3D Fighter, with visuals finally close enough to that of the actual 
 series. From the innate accuracy of the outside worlds, to the flames of aura that surround the 
 fighters during combat, there is much to look at here. Blur effects during battle add even more 
 to the excitement of the fight, as the gameplay compounds upon the fact that this is as close to 
 the anime as you will get.
  
  You remember during certain high-class fights in the anime, where there was a near-symphony of 
 lighting-quick vanishing attacks, one right after the other? That feat can be felt here. Multiple 
 dodge strikes and recovery techniques have the ability to keep the pace frantic and fun provided 
 your timing is right. Thankfully, there are tutorial stages that both explain the above, and keep 
 in step with certain storylines.
  
  But the fun stops there. While fun gameplay and glorious graphics are abound, the game comes up 
 short on many angles. Literally. Z Chronicles, the games' single-player mode, can be cleared in 
 just a couple of days, or, for the more experienced, a few hours. Even with the added difficulty 
 levels that can be played on, only the diehard would want to take on the Saiyan Saga for the nine-millionth 
 time.
  
  The AI is hard to discern in this game. Burst Limit is without an Arcade mode, so Z Chronicles 
 is unfortunately the way to go to unlock all the characters. ZC serves up a random batch of difficulty 
 each time you play: It can range from Baby Stroller Easy to Unholy Nut-Bashing difficult. For some 
 forsaken reason, the AI LOVES to Turtle and will do so at every chance it has, having them take 
 just the minimal damage from attacks. And with the few Guard Break moves and the AI impossible 
 comebacks from certain defeat, you will have some distinctive controller-throwing moments. A game 
 that gives you so many tactics, but is so stingy about letting you use them... what the hell is 
 going on here?
  
  Not to mention that for some unknown reason, the Buu saga is left out, along with many other characters 
 that made appearances in previous games. Videl, Goten and the Fusion Characters, for example. There 
 isn't any reason why the roster, though a strong one, can't make room for a few more people from 
 the series.
  
  And with the only other modes being Trial (Survival, Time ATK, and Battle Point) and Versus, the 
 game overall comes up short for those that don't give a damn about the DBZ. 
  
  If you happen to be a past fan, or are a fighter looking for something new in the crowd, DBZ: BL 
 will take up your time for the better part of a few days. The Drama Pieces, while an interesting 
 mix of gameplay for the fans, are more a nuisance than helpful, as they cut right into the middle 
 of the action and have the ability to break any kind of match-winning combo you may have set up. 
 Even the diehards may find themselves frustrated with the games unbalanced difficulty. The gameplay 
 is simple for the new kid, yet fun to master, while the graphics are both beautiful and exciting 
 to watch in motion. But that can only go so far. Your $50-60 is better spent elsewhere. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darkwolfyboy
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 1, 2008 6:05 pm PT
Review:  Many people have probably given up, on "The Series That Must Die" (that and a certain blue hedgehog) , 
 but no, Akira, Atari, Goku, and friends, work together to make another one to surprise and friggin 
 amaze, burst Limit for the PS3/360 keeps it simple, and yet, with depth. The HD quality kicks ***, 
 and the voice acting and sound is a super A++. The Story Mode follows through the Sayain Saga, 
 Ginyu Saga, Freiza Saga, And the Cell/Incomplete/Complete/ Cell Games Saga with every FIGHT! Even 
 the ones like Tien fighting of 1st State Cell. The story mode is about more than 70 battles, with 
 plenty to do. Drama Pieces are new to the series, which include mini in-game cut scenes, in which 
 ,depending on the circumstances, will cause a character to appear, and change the battle for you (stopping 
 ultimates from hitting you, fighting for a brief second, etc.) and plenty more. Burst Limit offers 
 graphics's, sound and game play of the Gods, but, is a few steps from... divine perfection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bmsaareagles
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 1, 2008 1:19 pm PT
Review:  Dragon Ball Z is back in the gaming world, and its a good thing. Burst Limit is a great game. There 
 are all the basic characters and some specail onces like Bardock and Brolly. The main mode is Z 
 Chronicles. In this mode you play throu 3 different sagas and unlock characters and new attack 
 and stuff. The sagas include saiyan, cell, frieza, bardock, and brolly. Its kinda long and should 
 take about 10 hours to complete. There are also tons of different difficulties and the replay value 
 of the story mode is verry high. There is also trail, witch has 3 different game modes that put 
 you to the test. Another cool thing is online play. You can use the characters and skills you unlocked 
 up to other players around the world. The fighting system is great and there are tons of different 
 attacks to do. There are also very cool visiuals that make the fighting even better. You can also 
 train, witch is cool because its presented like the movie from when gohan is training from piccolo. 
 Overall this is a great game. Even when you finish it, its still fun to play and there are still 
 tons of things to do. The achivements are even great, ranging from easy ones, to super hard ones. 
 This is a must buy for fans of the series, and new comers alike! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: F-Gohan
Rating: 5
Date: Jul 30, 2008 6:08 pm PT
Review:  The game is fast paced with good action but thats it. It has so few characters, SSj2 Gohan is broken (in 
 terms of punching speed and power) any one can win with him even someone with no clue whats going 
 on, none destructable enviornments is disappointing, drama pieces don't always help or come at 
 a convenient or when you need them (this is mainly pointed towards senzu beans which come when you 
 have half a bar of health or less and it only gives you a quarter of a bar, not being able to start 
 in a super saiyan is annoying, why isn't there a father-son kamehameha attack in the game, my big 
 question though why is it the punches never hit the other guy but he still takes damage i mean 
 thats just stupid.
  overall its a fairly good game. but don't spend $60 on it or $50 or even $40. wait for it to be 
 on sale 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spiredcrescent
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 30, 2008 9:34 am PT
Review:  Dragonball z is a franchise that keeps being put in different iterations for all sorts of fans 
 to enjoy. Burst limit goes back to that first budokai feel in order to highlight what dragonball 
 z does and that is the awesome battles. Burst Limit has characters that end with the cell saga. 
 This is sad considering the last budokai had countless characters that were all fun to play. The 
 game has a story mode called Z Chronicles which highlights the main battles and wraps it up at 
 the ending giving the feeling of a rushed product. This hurts the overall quality and you get the 
 feel that this is a more stripped down game than its predecessors.
  
  Dragonball z plays like the original budokai series as it is a 3-d fighter. The ki gauges do not 
 need to be charged as much as you hold the ki button to launch energy attacks with the amount of 
 ki of your choosing, but you still have to use all of your ki to use an ultimate attack. The format 
 is familiar as you have a powar attack, regular attack, and a ki attack. You also can activate 
 your ki in two ways, one way unlocks new stuff for you character such as a dragon rush. The other 
 just enhances your attacks and gives you a break attack which can't be blocked. You can also choose 
 between which ultimate attack you want when you select a character and which drama pieces you want.
 
  
  Dragonball z burst limit also introduces a new concept called drama pieces. These are activated 
 by certain requirements that happen during battle. These are a nice addition, but it slows down 
 the fighting and i would rather have a much more in depth story mode telling me the story of dragonball 
 z. The gameplay also just feels slower than the original budokai trilogy. The moves also seem harder 
 to pull off as you sometimes have to activate your ki energy to teleport and the back and forth 
 action from budokai 3 is slowed down considerably. You also can no longer string together a combo 
 and finish with a death move, they are now seperate which makes it easier to dodge those ultimate 
 moves. Online the game is the same with an even slower pace as a small amount of lag is present.
 
  
  Sound wise the game seems more aimed towards kids. The sounds of fighting and such are all there, 
 but the music seems to be more upbeat. The hardcore madness of guitar and simple lyrics is not 
 present and the voice acting is just awful and doesn't get you into the already bad story.
  
  Graphically is where the game shines, the character models and moves are just beautiful in 
 HD. My problem with this is there is no depth. All similar ultimate moves end in a very generic 
 and identical fashion and it takes away from the dramatic sequences of old that really showed off 
 your z fighters moves.
  
  For those avid fans of dragonball z this will quench your thirst for a small amount of time, as 
 long you can find someone to play online you may be into this for awhile, but if you have never 
 played a dragonball z game or even watch the show i would go with dragonball z: budokai 3 or tenkaichi 
 3 as they are a much more quality fighting game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AMcCarty75
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 26, 2008 2:56 pm PT
Review:  Dragonball Z Burst Limit has some of the most amazing grahpics, not in realistic wise, but is nice 
 to look at. The clothing of the fighters can be seen moving while fighting and in cutscenes. The 
 battling system is fairly easy to use with a few advanced controls that may need to be mastered. 
 However some characters have unique moves that others don't but a lot share the same moves. 
  
  The voice overs in the cutscenes are pretty authentic and the cutscenes can refresh anyone's 
 memory on the orginal storyline. With a less dense roster than the last few DBZ fighting games, 
 many fans were upset. And this game only takes players through 3 main sagas and 2 sub-sagas. The 
 3 main ones are the Sayian Saga, Freiza Saga, and the Android-Cell Saga. The 2 sub sagas are Bardock 
 and Broly which do not follow the storyline from the show. The sub-sagas are both inside one of 
 the larger sagas storyline, but are not open to play till after the cell saga is beat. 
  
  Z Chronicles is a neat way of planning out the story, but is somewhat confusing when finding the 
 exact order after beating them. The other game modes are versus which includes online play. Training 
 and tutorial which you can practice. The last mode has three different things do : survival and 
 two that must be unlocked. Online play is fun until you play spammers and run into a horrible connection. 
 This is one of those games where if there is lag it is not funny for one second it ruins the whole 
 experince. 
  
  Burst Limit is a stepping stone to a greater next-gen DBZ fighter which should include a larger 
 roster and story. And hopefully a cleaner online play. If you like previous budokai's and played 
 it to death this is a definate buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: five-zal
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jul 25, 2008 7:25 pm PT
Review:  i wish they put more characters but 21 character is not enough
  improved graphic, nice cutsene,
  gameplay is fast but a bit hard
  lengthy story mode, it only 
 last until cell saga, but i feel i played the game so long but u are gonna get bored if u play this 
 again and again, the same fighter
  im a big fan of dbz since i was 7.... i hope more than this
  
  nice flashing
  
  so if u 
 are interested to buy this game, rent it first
  
  mine was japanese, i don't really understand
  
  so thats it
  
  for my review
  
  thank 
 you for reading!!!
  
  so bye
  
  dfdf
  f
  f
  f
  f
  gg
  gg
  
  rtw
  a
  a
  
  ff
  
  fffggg
  
  ghh
  r
  ww
  wwaas
  s
  
  dd
  ff
  ff
  
  fgghk
 
  
  qijidjdjd
  
  sjdijvfdjokf
  
  vte
  
  w
  a
  s
  fgggghh
  
  hh
  
  h
  h
  
  qnadjnnd
  
  so thats it
  
  thank you
  
  donlt know what to write..
 
  d
  
  ffg
  f
  g
  d
  
  a
  
  
  a
  sdffgg
  
  tgsdnjshuwfen
  
  sdnfncjnv 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AngelWolfCDS101
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 22, 2008 2:57 am PT
Review:  GAMEPLAY
  This game plays almost exactly like it's cousin Budokai 3 in the Budokai series. There's not much 
 to really be said about gameplay, it's a button-masher. 'Nuff said.
  
  The character roster is a little short, especially following up the huge rosters of the Tenkaichi 
 series, but the major characters are there and ready. Unfortunately, there doesn't seem a way to 
 change the costumes of the characters, only the colors. So, even though we see the Cell Saga Vegeta 
 (and even play as him in Chronicles) , whenever you go to a VS challenge, you'll be seeing him suited 
 up as he was on the day he first arrived on Earth (including tail) .
  
  The story mode seems to assume that the person playing the game already knows the story and skips 
 several key elements... those leading up to the fights. Cutscenes are... lackluster. They look 
 great, but fans will notice certain things that kill the experience. First, is the aforementioned 
 skipping of scenes. Next is the 'editing' of the scenes that they do show.
  
  The addition of in-fight cut-scenes that also impart benefits to your fighter are an interesting 
 addition and add to the feeling of being in the anime, but can be intrusive and annoying at times... 
 especially since there is no skipping them.
  
  GRAPHICS
  This is where this game truly shines. It looks really nice and clean. Especially on HD. The character 
 models are extremely well detailed and represent their respective characters well. The arenas are 
 also well detailed and although more often than not the action is moving too quick to take in the 
 scenery (with a nice blur effect) if you stop and smell the roses, you won't be disappointed.
 
  
  SOUND
  Unfortunately, this game takes a step backwards from it's brethren in this department. The rock 
 rifts that pumped up the adrenaline for a superfast fight in previous games is replaced by slower 
 music... still rock, but slower, creating an odd pace.
  
  VALUE
  Probably not worth buying right out the gate as a new game, but definitely worth picking up sometime.
 
  
  TILT
  This game's difficulty fell on the line somwhere between average. The harder difficulties were 
 truly harder and the easier ones truly that. The learning curve of the game wasn't hard, but a 
 tad confusing as a lot of the moves use similar nomenclature, leaving you confused as to what move 
 is actually what.
  
  OVERALL
  If you liked Budokai 3, then you'll like this game. It's relatively the same exact thing, but with 
 prettier graphics. As a fighting game, it's not all that great, but it ain't bad, either. Bottom 
 line is, if you're a DBZ fan, you'll check it out and probably love it. If not, you'll like it 
 or just think it's so-so. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: detrek77
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 20, 2008 11:29 pm PT
Review:  lets just start this off by saying the fighting system in this game is amazing and revolutionary. 
 I mean finally they made it so u dont take every blow and u can make your character dodge the attacks. 
 I do kinda think taking the ki charging off was a dumb idea but going aura spark is pretty cool 
 along with super saiyan. The special moves are pretty good and so are all the super moves but it 
 seems to lack some attacks that weaker people like tien, yamcha, and krillen used, and wtf ever 
 happen to choutzu he like died and never came back .Some other attacks seem to strong for what 
 they are. I was glad that this game was mad and they stopped making tenchaichi games cause they 
 honestly sucks on so many levels. Mixing your ki and attacks so you can punch a dent right through 
 you opponent was a nice touch. They should of at least of had goku in his ripped up bad ass clothing 
 out fit which is another down fall to the game but the fighting system is great, game play is great 
 , and it was just a great idea to bring the franchise back. Im just awaiting number 2 because there 
 gonna have the next sagas and that mean super saiyan 3 and alot more features. so its a great game 
 but lacks a well amount of features. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Devil_Vergil
Rating: 5
Date: Jul 20, 2008 2:28 pm PT
Review:  Dragon Ball Z: Burst Limit is the 3rd Dragon Ball Z fighting Franchise to come to a next gen system 
 (following Dragon Ball Z Budokai Tencaichi 2/3 on the Wii) The game offers alot of changes. . . 
 . . some of which are more annoying than others I will dive deep into this new game on the Xbox360 
 counsole and tell you exactlly what a DBZ fan such as myself finds incrediblly RIGHT and incrediblly 
 WRONG about this game
  
  
  Graphics: 10 out of 10
  
  Graphics are amazing in this game so far the most visually appealing Dragon Ball Z game to date, 
 certainlly a step up from the old Budokai games. Fans wont be dissapointed to see their favorite 
 characters spring to life with the smooth CGI that the Atari team at this point. . . . . .has seemed 
 to perfect. Graphics I give you my hat tipped keep up the awesome work
  
  Gameplay: 6-7 out of 10
  
  Now dont get me wrong. . . . the Dragon Ball Z games have always 
 brought an interesting fighting system to fans across the world but to acually get used to all 
 the new concepts and such is just so. . . . hard. . . controls are not responsive and overall badlly 
 made. . . . . you try to input a combo and you only end up doing 1 out of the 10 hits your supose 
 to do! That leaves you wide open for attack which doesn't go over well with some users
  
  This fighting ga-. . . . . . acually I take it back. . . . because of the other newest addition 
 to the game. . . . a series of events that randomlly (after being triggered by a certain battle 
 condition) appear to help you or hurt your opponent called "Drama peices". These Drama peices activate 
 special cut scenes in the game and completelly interupt attacks and screw up your overall flow. 
 Now there are some cases where you can turn these off to have just a smooth battle but then it 
 would be like playing "Dragon Ball Z Budokai" . . . . . . . yes the original. All and all the drama 
 peices are fun. . . . but get annoying if and when you need one and it doesn't show up and when 
 your fine it does show up, Just feels like your watching an episode of Dragon Ball Z. . . . . not 
 a fighting game.
  
  As stated before the controls are unresponsive to your wishes and desires so your opponent can 
 get the drop on you. Other than that the game stays true to the previous games control output you 
 have two omg I's on fire moves. . . . . and then you have one Imma own u teh ubb3r n00b move. . 
 . . . .all these moves really dont pose a threat unless if your not quick (or as I stated. . . 
 . your game likes to see you sufer with unresponsive commands) or dont have a special drama peice 
 to dodge the attack. 
  
  AI: 1-5 out of 10
  
  The Artificial inteligance in this game can be annoying. . . . sometimes they are to easy and just 
 run right up to you screaming for you to give them a classic S. S Broly Beatdown and other times 
 they will stand there. . . . and block. . . . just block. Last time I remembered where Vegeta stood 
 there and blocked his life away was. . . . . well. . . . .never. The AI obviouslly has no problems 
 with using a bunch of complicated moves that will get your health from tip top shape all the way 
 to I'm gonna die. . . . . normally when both the computer and yourself are on your last bar of 
 health you an't help to wonder. . . . one Ultimate attack thats all I need!!! and then the AI pulls 
 abunch of strings to get the camera man to confuse and startle you with a surprise attack of whoopage. 
 . . . . .not fun at all. This can be really frustrating when your on modes such as Time attack 
 and Survival. . . . but I'll hush up about those till later on in the reveiw.
  
  There are many different modes in which you can play on this game those are (note I'll be going 
 through all these in depth)
  
  Z Chronicels - basiclly the "story mode" for the game
  
  Versus - Play the AI. . . .play a friend. . . .and now! Play against total strangers on XBL!!!!!
 
  
  Trial - Time attack. . . .survivial. . . . . total ownage to you XD.
  
  Tutorial - Learn the game!!! but then forget all the controls cause your so obsessed with the way 
 Gohan says, "Right!!" every other sentance
  
  Training - practice makes perfect they say. . . never applied to Cell though =P
  
  Options 
 - change the setting to modes save. . . and load data!!!!!
  
  Now that I have explained all the modes to you its time I go in depth with all of them some may 
 be more self explanitory then others but for the sake of saying I did this reveiw thoroughlly. 
 . . .
  
  Z Chronicles: 4 out of 10
  
  Now the story of Dragon Ball Z cannot be muked up any further I mean we have a whole mess of buff 
 guys who get their shirts ripped off and scream at the top of their lungs to show whos stronger. 
 This is a known fact and even us DBZ fans poke fun at this, but Burst Limit takes the story WAY 
 out of context. Important events are skipped (such as Nappa's death the way he dies, Cell absorbing 
 the androids ect ect) fans of the DBZ series will be like Ohhh ok he did that already in the middle 
 of the "episodes" but newcomers to the DMZ franchise will be lost in a land of Super Sayin explosion 
 limbo. I personally found this annoying and wont comment much more on that
  
  one of the main things that the Atari and its team messed up on was the limited amount of frames 
 they did for story mode. . . . every single scene seemed like the same thing . . . only with different 
 people they had the same looks same actions everything was pretty much repeatitve it excited me 
 to see a new cutscene but I go to find out it will eventually be repeated in the near future. . 
 . . 
  
  "Story" mode offers multiple difficultty settings there is
  
  Very Easy
  
  Easy
  
  Normal
  
  Hard
  
  Very Hard
  
  and Z
  
  these modes as you can tell 
 will change how the AI will interact with you in battle I will be staying with "Normal" mode where 
 it applies. If you want to test yourself put it on Z mode but first you must beat the game on Normal. 
 . . . then Hard,. . . . . the Very Hard an overall tedious task that is very time consuming and 
 frustrating but if your up for the task then by all means go for gold.
  
  Versus: 5-6 out of 10
  
  Now facing the computer awesome! You can learn their moves without 
 having anything riding on the battle!!!
  
  Fighting against friends locally SWEET!!!!!! I always like another human to challenge me!!!
  
 
  Fighting on XBL. . . . .not so sweet. The reason for this is if you are not completelly skilled 
 with the game (like I am) then you have no way of controlling who you face. . . .I was an F rank 
 on live (I was going for the achievments and not the ranks) and I end up facing a Z rank how does 
 that line up? Hello I thought I was host!!! I dont want to get destroyed in a flurry of attacks 
 and then become dazed afterwards putting the controller down and crying in the corner. No I want 
 an even match one of which if I get ya down low enough then I'm ok again I wasn't there to make 
 friends or be competitve I was there for acheivments other than that people on live are extremelly 
 polite and dont do any like "teabag motions" when you get KO'd so thats good keep it up. 
  
  Another thing that is bad about XBL (this has something to do with all fighters not just Burst 
 Limit) is the fact if you face off against someone with a 2 bar connection your done for the match 
 will be so laggy you'll think that Goku is wearing his own weights, Vegeta's armor, Piccolo's weights, 
 and Pikkon's weights all put together but like I said before its a problem with all fighters since 
 its one on one
  
  Trial: 7 out of 10
  
  Survival mode is a mode that the game puts you up against 100 enemies each subsequentlly getting 
 harder as you progress throughout the 100 win streak one loss and your done with thats it! This 
 mode is fun yet time consuming it should reach a mediocre player such as myself a little less then 
 an hour to get to 100 wins other than that the game is fun till you lose
  
  Time attack mode is a little frustrating AI is harder then they would be on a mode like survival 
 and you need to beat them twice to progress. The time attacks have courses which basiclly put you 
 against 10 of a certain type of enemy like for example course A in time attack is Freiza and his 
 men. . . . .well last time I checked Freiza didn't have 2 copies of himself near the end of the 
 saga.
  
  Tutorial: 10 out of 10
  
  the tutorial is fun and easy to use you learn first basics like reading the screen and attacking 
 . . . .then you go to the middle man lessons like using ultimate blast and stuff like that then 
 you reach the advance stages of training like Perfect Gaurd attack and I'm a God move titles along 
 that line.
  
  You follow Gohan as he progresses throughout the sagas of DBZ you first start of training with 
 Piccolo for the Sayin's arraivals then you train with Krillin for Vegeta (and Freiza) and finally 
 you train with your father to prepare for the Android attack! all these modes are fun and all but 
 the dialouge is a little torn up Gohan loves to reply with "Right!" and it makes you laugh the 
 first 2 times but then after the 5th you wanna give him a tutorial of your own. . . .
  
  Training: 10 out of 10
  
  its training what more can be said?
  
  Options: N/A
  
  I 
 cant rate how well the options are they are all pretty self explanitory.
  
  Character Roster: 1 out of 10
  
  Last time I checked the last instalement of the DBZ franchise 
 ranked in more than 120 characters now we are downsizing to only 21?!?!?! The roster is extremelly 
 dissapointing leaving many fan favorites out of the game like Cooler and Turles. Plus the costumes 
 in the game are a bit dissapointing. Goku keeps the same sostume for the whole entire game (the 
 one he had in Budokai you know where his trainer is Master Roshi) it annoys me to see such tallent 
 gone to the graphics alone but if this is the way that Atari wants to make their games then I will 
 be sadened that they to have been corrupted by the shiny penny to make an even shinier Goku. . 
 . . 
  
  Voice Acting: 2 out of 10
  
  Ugh bad dubbing I can litterally read the japanesse right from their mouths its sad and the dialouge 
 in the game is dissapointing when either Vegeta or Piccolo say "What...?!" they seem like they 
 have been winded and cant muster up enough breath to say one word but they have it in their lungs 
 to scream like a banshee. . . . . . also Atari needs to fix one small but HUGE problem and thats 
 Cell's voice his voice goes from Perfect to Imperfect form to 2nd form listen my Cell is in his 
 Imperfect state how about we keep that voice ok? Sadly how much all the fans complain about this 
 I doubt it will happen . . . . .ever.
  
  Music: 10 out of 10 
  
  the theme song to Burst Limit is catchy EXTREMELLY catchy I love it and listen to the opening every 
 time I pop in the disc it makes me happy and cooled off for the coming frustration. . . . . plus 
 battle music is nice as well keeps you calm yet angry just what a Sayin Warrior needs in battle!!!!!!
 
  
  All in all Dragon Ball Z Burst Limit is a good game. . . . if you like mediocre games for the fans 
 ots a mojor flop for new comers well I think they will not know whats up I can imagine if a newcomer 
 to DBZ came up to me and said
  
  "Ya the way Nappa was killed by Goku was awesome!!!!"
  
  I would shale my head and walk away 
  
  Atari I thought you guys had a solid formula with 
 Dragon Ball Z Budokai Tencaichi 3 but it looks like something went wrong. . . .real wrong
  
  Dragon Ball Z: Burst Limit for the Xbox 360:
  
  5 out of 10
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kooleman8
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 19, 2008 6:58 am PT
Review:  The game it selft is good but there are a few thing that make this a little too lak from the other 
 games...
  
  The History: The game take place in only 3 Sagas: Saiyan Saga, Freezer Saga and Cell Saga, also 
 have a few Special chapaters like Bardock Father's of Goku and Broly The Legendary Super Saiyan... 
 In my opinion this far, the people that buy this game need to know the Anime Serie, is practicly 
 the only serie that have the ultimate Violence and the best history that Akira Toriyama can tell, 
 so if you aren't a fan of Dragon Ball and even kwon who the hell is Goku, please do me a favor, 
 DON'T BUY ANY GAME OF DRAGON BALL...
  
  The Gameplay: Is the same (o' yeah) The same of Dragon Ball Budokai Series, you really fell in 
 a Dragon Ball Figth, The punches look's good and the combos fell right... BUT, the abilities of 
 the characters are practicly "crap", in Dragon Ball Budokai 3 you have a plenty and variable powers, 
 each powers had a mini video and you could see the moust destruction and the moust captivates moments 
 in the anime... For this game you only have a few Special moves, Goku for Example have the Super 
 kamehameha, the Genki Dama o warever it takes his name... But you don't have the theleport kamehameha 
 and other's as well, so these thing make the gameplay as the same and practicly shorter because 
 Dragon Ball Budokai 3 is more complete, have it all... Well the only new thing here is the Drama 
 piece, make the battle more realistic but only appear in certanly circunstances, so you can't **** 
 control it.
  
  Presentation: Is the only good thing in the game, my puntuation in the game is 7.0. I put it because 
 the game it selft is very good but if you compare it to the predecesors you gonna fell disappointing, 
 so I recomend you to star thinking (If I was play all the other games in PS2 and were great, so 
 this will be grate?) The answer is NO, maybe you gonna love it, but when the time pass the boring 
 star to fell fast, theres only 21 character... please in Dragon Ball Tenkaichi 3 have practicly 
 80 or more!!!! Wath thinks these people!... Ah and a matter of fact you even have the correct outfit 
 of the character... Goku for Example have the same clothes in all the game (with the Z begind) 
 Yes with the Z begind of Master Roshi Student... So Start thinking that Vegeta use the Bulma's 
 Armor that costruct to him on The Cell Saga, in the Freezer Saga... Well Piccoro dont even use 
 his robe =S.
  
  So in conclution if you read this, dont goona blame me, comon man the game is fun if you even play 
 the other's, there are a few good things but isn't pass to the other generation, in my oppinion 
 these people need to be better... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: naju890_963
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 16, 2008 8:38 am PT
Review:  Dragon Ball Z is the best anime on Televisiion that has literalyy stolen everybody's time to watch 
 all over again. If you've managed to steer clear of the popular Dragon Ball Z anime this game will 
 surely tell you that its the best anime ever. Though this 3D fighter is full of characters and 
 special moves from the anime that fans like me really know them gamers who ddidnt watch will love 
 this game for sure. Burst Limit goes out of its way to be accessible to newcomers with a bunch of 
 tutroils and training modes that teach them how to reaaly play with style. Only three combatants 
 are available at the outset, but as you progress through the story mode youll unlock many other 
 wariors but t dont expext many because the characrters are few. The Saiyan, Frieza, and Cell sagas 
 as they're told here represent few matireal that the show has to offer. As you play through the 
 50-plus battles of Z-Chronicles mode for the first time youll see what Burst limit really is like 
 many drama shots that look incredible. This was the most entissipated game that fans wanted and 
 it really filled there brain with action. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: bleedgreen2-1-5
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jul 16, 2008 1:06 am PT
Review:  it seemed as if i was playing the first budakai, the gameplay was better in some aspects but in 
 others it was a step backwards, there was no free flying during fights, fights were too contained. 
 the fact that there were only 21 characters. Broly was incredibly annoying to play with........ he 
 sucks in this game. It left out a lot of important characters such as android 20 (Dr. Gero) dodoria, 
 zarbon, jeice burter and so on. The storylines and pre match scenes were often recycled except 
 a few very good ones like goku's super saiyan transformation and gohans one armed kamehameha. I 
 was very dissapointed in this game and i will definatley rent the next one before I recommend you 
 borrow it or rent it, the only real improvement was in the graphics department. You can no longer 
 power up and the aura spark didnt appeal to me all that much, this game is very repetitive. i have 
 more fun going into training and fighting rather then quick matches or story mode, the drama peices 
 become very annoying as you play, it interupts the game and makes it dull.
  
  Dissapointed, maybe they will improve next time around? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nightblade252
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jul 14, 2008 11:15 am PT
Review:  Well when i played the demo and saw the commercials I was like OMG this game is amazing!!!! but 
 after I bought it I realized that they spent absolutley no time in the cutscenes or anything else 
 for that matter. I thought it was gonna be an amazing remake of all the other dbz games but with 
 the new seasons but i was wrong. The game only has the sayain, freiza, and cell saga...... THEY 
 LEFT OUT THE BUU SAGA!!!!!. Another letdown was that you had very little choice of character selection. 
 they didnt even have hercule *sadness* and that brings me to another point. the cutscenes, they 
 were identical to eachother except they through in different characters, i think in total there 
 are 4 to 6 different cutscenes in the whole game out of like 40 chapters!!! on another hand i was 
 blown away by the fighting gameplay it was pretty intense. but once again everyones attacks were 
 basically the same. if you remember playing the other dbz games than you remember the amzing button 
 sequences you have to type in to unleash this amazing ultimate attack. not so much in this game, 
 your ultimate is..... GET READY..... HERE IT COMES........ OMG!!!!!...... up B!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
 WHAT!?!?!?!? yea im not lieing every single characters ultimate attack is up B. I mean come on 
 seriously? have gamers really gotten that lazy? AND the ultimate attacks arent anything to get 
 excited about its just like any other attack no big long action sequence with button mashing...... just 
 up B. If you want an amazing dbz game i suggest you break out your dust gathering PS2 and kick 
 some ass with budoki 3 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Azhar85
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 13, 2008 7:44 am PT
Review:  DBZ Burst Limit is a remaked of DBZ Budokai First with enchanted graphics and cutscenes but has 
 a simple gameplay. The storyline covered from the Saiyan Saga to the Cell saga with an extra two 
 movies storyline in the DBZ Universe. The movies are Broly Saga and Bardock Saga. 
  
  The gameplay are too simple. You can created a powerful combo moves by mashing either X button 
 or Y button or both with a d-pad to knocked out you oppenent. Besides, this game doesn't have a 
 ki charge method and the ki automatically charges itself. 
  
  This game doesn't have a breakthrough method like the previous Budokai series. That mean, you can 
 only use one ultimate attack per game such as Super Kamehameha. You will give an option to select 
 your favourite ultimate attack before going into battle.
  
  Others than that, Dragon Rush moves are simple to executed in this game. You just need to press 
 RB to created the Aura Spark mode and then attack your oppenent by pressing the LT. 
  
  For me, this game is exactly the same like DBZ Tenkaichi. The difference just the camera view. 
 Tenkaichi is a 3rd person fighter but Burst Limit is a side view fighter. Others than that, all 
 the mechanisme are the same as Tenkaichi. Rent first if you want to try.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bradyboy85
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 11, 2008 7:12 pm PT
Review:  Okay first and foremost this game is great. There is good depth to be unlocked for almost every 
 character. Not only this but most characters are balanced and have there own strengths and weaknes's. 
 If you loved or even liked the Budokai or Shinbudokai series this is a definte buy. The new Drama 
 piece system is pretty cool but is worthless for serious battles.
  As for offline play they are kinda lacking in it. Storymode doesn't really cover it for someone 
 who doesn't know about Dragonball but it gives you a idea. Also, they are lacking the good old 
 fashion world tournament mode, as well as the cool rpg aspect like levilng up stats. The A. I is 
 incredible it can pull off amazing cancel combos and is actually smart in this one.
  Now as for online the lag pretty much takes away most combo cancelling leaving the game basic but 
 still fun. Matches are ussually smooth as long as your connections are good and they are located 
 not over seas (The opponent.) The only real bad part about online is the amount of quiters their 
 are because the ranking system doesn't punish them.
  As for the fighting game engine its pretty good, Its like its father Shinbudokai. However, Ki regenartion 
 is just to fast making Ultimate attacks used a lot more then usual. Not only this but deathmoves, 
 some more than others are hard to punish. When you sidestep they don't miss because they tend to 
 track your character when you side step. This makes sidestepping alot less useful part of the game. 
 Not only this but the deathmoves don't even have punishment on their KI. They should at least punish 
 them somehow by stopping Ki regen for 2-5 seconds depending on the move. Some Ultimates also are 
 hard to punish and dodge like Vegetas finalf flash because they come out so fast and have a quick 
 recovery time.
  Okay so
  Story: 7.5
  Fighting: 9.5
  Online: 8.5
  Content: 8.3
  Replay value: 10
  Overall:8.8 (Put a 9 because they didn't have a 8.8)
  Buy this game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: greeny1993
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 11, 2008 12:25 pm PT
Review:  this game is great the graphics are exelent aswell as the sound quality compaired to the previous 
 dbz games but where is the buu saga?!? personally the buu saga is my favorite saga out of dbz and 
 while the cell saga is brillient and so is the freiza saga they have missed a few fights out : ( 
 th saiyan saga was far to short and in the next dbz plz include the buu saga :) it ownz harshly 
 and it couldent hurt to add a few of the films in too nothin wrong with the cooler or meta cooler 
 films and thankyou for not including the garlic saga what a waste that was. while this dbz game 
 has the best quality unfortunatly the dragon ball z budukai tenchin 2 had by far the best game 
 play and while the online idea is good i dont like being about to win a fight then they quit so 
 i dont get any xp wts with tht? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamespotedpuppy
Rating: 6
Date: Jul 10, 2008 9:34 am PT
Review:  INTRODUCTION
  The Dragon Ball series may have ended, but the gaming series has not. Now we enter a new generation, 
 and with a new generation, more capabilities for better Dragon Ball Z games. Dragon Ball Z Burst 
 Limit is the first of what is to be many next gen Dragon Ball Z games. The question is, as it being 
 one of the first, is it also one of the worst?
  
  STORY
  The Z Chronicles mode recreates the first 3 sagas of the Dragon Ball Z series plus two movie inspired 
 what-if sagas. Nothing special though.
  
  GRAPHICS
  For a next gen game, this does not disappoint. The graphics are bright and vibrant that it feels 
 like you are in the show. The cut scenes also look like they have been taken from show. However, 
 you might see the same cut scenes over again but with different characters. 
  
  SOUND
  The music is good and so is the theme song. That is all I have to say about this section.
  
 
  GAMEPLAY
  The game play is pretty much 2D fighting. Unlike the previous games however, there is no collecting 
 capsules or Dragon Balls for your characters. The twist here is the inclusion of Drama Pieces. 
 Drama Pieces change the course of the game, from damaging the opponent to increasing attack power. 
 These drama pieces also show cut scenes, mostly they have the character say something and let the 
 game continue, but other times, it might be their partner, or they might fight. Like the cut scenes 
 I mentioned before, it looks like it was from the show. However some the drama pieces are annoying, 
 as they just happen automatically. All and all, the Drama Pieces could be improved. The fighting 
 in this game is simple for button mashers and the countering system is very timing specific, yet 
 easy to pull off. The controls are simple, doing special moves is as easy as tilting the controller 
 stick and pressing B. The fighting is simply easy.
  
  CONCLUSION
  The Dragon Ball fighting series has come a long way. Dragon Ball Z Burst Limit managed to show 
 people what awaits for the series as it enters next gen territory. Though has a few problems, it 
 manages to stay from the lower ratings for it's addictive game play and it's graphics. If your 
 a fan of the Dragon Ball series or fighting games, then by all means get it. Dragon Ball Z Burst 
 Limit bursts the limit just slightly with a six out of ten. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: javiergf
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 7, 2008 8:28 am PT
Review:  Let me start by saying that if you never watched Dragon Ball Z, you will never have as much fun 
 as if you did.
  The graphics are just simply terrific, it is like the serie but on 3D and HD. The voices are the 
 same of the original characters and the sound effects are the same as well.
  The biggest improvement has been the gameplay, it is a lot easier to make combos and super attacks 
 and the game it is more about reflexes than about memorizing combination of attacks, something 
 I never liked about fighting games.
  Again, this game is not for everyone, I don't think you will like it if you never watched the cartoons 
 or read the comics but if you did, it is a very solid and very fun game with excellent graphics. 
 The bad is the multiplayer, it doesn't work, period. I think there was a patch that was going to 
 be released by the July that will hopefully fix it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pork_Lord
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 5, 2008 8:21 pm PT
Review:  Originally posted on http://spacemeat. com. au
  
  With Dragon Ball first airing throughout Japan in 1986 it's not surprising to find a slew of video 
 game releases throughout the years based on one of the most popular manga and anime series ever. 
 DragonBall Z (DBZ) games, more specifically, have been pumping out on a regular basis since the 
 SEGA Mega Drive days. Now we have Burst Limit, DBZ's first foray into the next-gen realm of HD 
 graphics and online play in what feels like a continuation on the old series as well as an introduction 
 to a new era of DBZ games.
  
  If you've played DBZ titles from series such as Budokai or Tenkaichi, you'll of course be quite 
 familiar with the play style of Burst Limit. A mix of strength and speed, the variety of projectile 
 and melee attack combinations across each character hosts good versatility in combat necessitating 
 fast reaction times against contextual thinking.
  
  It's a lot more exciting than the anime series, I can tell you that. I do enjoy DBZ on it's own, 
 but it's well-known tendency for dragging out plots and battles across several episodes wears my 
 patience far too thin. What I do like though, are multiple fast, action-packed battles with two 
 crazily overpowered near-godlike beings duking it out against a vibrant background teeming with 
 shiny special effects. This is Burst Limit.
  
  Whether you're a fan of the anime or not, Burst Limit has a lot of fast action and seeing such 
 a familiar series re-vamped into vibrantly colourful HD helps boost the appeal for any DBZ or fighting 
 fan. In fact Burst Limit does well at appealing to both audiences of DBZ veterans and those new 
 to the series. The single player campaign titled "Z Chronicles" is a break-down of 3 separate sagas 
 that occurred in the anime series. With Saiyan, Frieza and Cell sagas included each fight symbolizes 
 a conflict within the original storyline putting the player in control of the ultimate victor.
 
  
  If you've never seen DBZ before, it may be all a tad confusing as the dialogue before each battle 
 doesn't really cover the current synopsis. If you have seen it before, you should get a kick out 
 of replaying a good chunk of the familiar sagas. Of course this implies again exactly what of the 
 story they've left out - so we know what to expect in terms of single player for the next DBZ installment, 
 and this is one of the gripes I have with the DBZ fighting series.
  
  Burst Limit does a great job of taking a familiar fighting formula and boosting it to the next 
 generation. Not only is everything far prettier, all the extra mode inclusions and battle variants 
 freshen things up to make this a substantial step-up in the series. If only it wasn't such an obvious 
 first installment, clearly it won't be too long for the next DBZ fighting game, then the next, 
 then the next
  
  This continual stream of DBZ releases does help the significance of Burst Limit, as it is the most 
 substantial upgrade the series has seen for a while. Items known as "Drama Pieces" are now brought 
 into play, unlocked and selected before battle - these are triggered by specific events in battle 
 and each have a different effect. It's also great that you can turn these bastards off if desired 
 as each time one triggers, a short video (including NPC dialogue) is played. At first this adds 
 some character into combat and is a big difference, but also continually breaks up combat and can 
 make things a little disjointed. Some of these drama pieces can be a little frustrating too, especially 
 in the unlocking process but as with (seemingly) most games out of Japan these days there's lots 
 of little things to unlock.
  
  Drama Pieces aren't the only addition, starting a single versus CPU match involves making a few 
 more new choices to the series, such as a partner who'll help out in battle when necessary. Ki, 
 your mighty power essence no longer requires manual charging. Ki is required for most powerful 
 abilities, in other installments this required a manual recharge from players. You know that iconic 
 DBZ "I'm about to take a huge dump" scream-charge. While there's still a lot of bowel-clenching 
 exuberance, it's good to see Ki automatically recharge so fighting doesn't completely stop every 
 minute as both fighters just stand and scream to charge.
  
  When it gets down to the actual button mashing, Burst Limit is largely similar to it's predecessors. 
 Controls offer a variety of abilities such as rush and smash attacks, throws, blocks, counters, 
 deflects, projectiles, charged projectiles - there's actually a very wide variety of attacks. You'll 
 learn to pull them off quickly though, as while each of the 21 characters have all different abilities 
 in terms of attack ranges and strengths, they are all mostly executed in the exact same and fairly 
 basic manner (such as Up+B for an ultimate attack) . Don't expect any excessively long chain combos.
 
  
  Mastering Burst Limit then becomes a case of exploring the range of characters and abilities available 
 (often chosen before battle) and mastering the greats. Unfortunately Burst Limit is a big case 
 of choosing the best players, with a few characters having suspiciously underpowered abilities 
 and little chance against superior fighters such as Goku. Picking a better player can provide an 
 unfair and oft unseen battle advantage, so learning each character and their potential abilities 
 is a must for any solid contending of Burst Limit.
  
  Once you've worked out the few balance issues, Burst Limit is a great game to master online and 
 off, with friends or bots. Having both Training and Tutorial modes is an excellent move especially 
 when they're both so useful. There's extra time wasters such as Survival modes and bonus content 
 but outside of standard single player or arcade play, multiplayer is definitely a huge drawing 
 point for the value of Burst Limit.
  
  Online multiplayer for Burst Limit seems like a very competent service for countless hours of ranked 
 or non-ranked worldwide fighting. It seems this way, but unless you're in a more populated country 
 you may have some issues finding a game of respectable latency. The frame rate will always coincide 
 with latency, so if you're secluded by a water locked continent of dirt such as myself you may 
 have issues finding some nearby like-minded individuals. Then consider that Australia doesn't even 
 qualify as a selectable country (we're off in "Other Countries") and I'm still trying to get a 
 decent speed game working online. From what I have played though, it was an exciting, yet laggy 
 affair.
  
  Not only does Burst Limit expand upon the DBZ fighting series with a range of additions and tweaks, 
 but the extended multiplayer options ensures Burst Limit to be full of value. If you're a fan of 
 DBZ the entire trip is a homage to a great series while newbies will find great coverage of the 
 DBZ universe and characters. Action is fast, colourful and highly accessible to fans of fighting 
 games so don't let the clear anime orientation of this title steer you off if you're not a fan. 
 Ultimately Burst Limit shapes up as one of the best DBZ titles for some time, ushering in what 
 will hopefully be a whole new era for the series.
  
  DragonBall Z : Burst Limit
  
  86%
  
  The Good -
  
  * Attractive and fast paced combat really feels like you're on a next-gen 
 console.
  * Accessible control schemes for a great variety of DBZ deities.
  * Rewarding multiplayer and single player content.
  
  The Bad -
  
  * Some overpowered characters/abilities.
 
  * Multiplayer easily inhibited by extreme latency.
  * Feels like some content holes, and we know the next one can't be too far off. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ashwyn16
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 5, 2008 12:06 pm PT
Review:  So just to start i am a huge Dragonball z fan, as it was the first Anime that i ever saw back when 
 it was first shown on Cartoon Network but this Burst Limit review will not be swaided by that fact 
 like alot of these other reviews have.
  
  So on to the Review!!!
  
  People seem to compare this game with Budokai 3 alot for some reason, even after playing it, this 
 is wrong as it shouldnt be compared with 3 but with Budokai 1.
  
  I'm proberly right in guessing that if your reading ( or have read ) this review then you are intrested 
 in some form in eithier Dragonball z itself or fighting games. Well...
  First off Dragonball z Burst Limit for the Xbox 360/PS3 is a Primary fighting game, and a good 
 one at that.
  
  Now unlike the past few DBZ games, Burst Limit return to the Budokai formula of fighting as the 
 camera is places further out and not behind your character like the Tenkaichi series, and just 
 like the Budokai series
  the game focuses more on strict fighting instead of collecting capsules and Dragon Balls for your 
 character. After completing story sequences, you unlock certain items such as characters, abilities 
 and battle stages. Combat has been simplified dramatically from the previous games. Using special 
 moves is as easy as pressing a button and moving the left analog stick or d-pad simultaneously. 
 If certain actions are made during the battle, "Drama Pieces" are activated, causing many different 
 effects such as having your health restored with a Senzu Bean and a helper character attacking 
 your opponent.
  
  Now these '' Drama Pieces '' are what i would call a '' double edged sword '' for the sheer fact 
 that when you first play the game and activate one of these Drama pieces, it looks cool thanks 
 to the great Animation ( exept the mouths that keep moving after the dialogue has been said ) and 
 core graphics, but after completing the game you would of most proberly unlocked 80% of these Drama 
 pieces which means you can use them if equiped to your character in fights online or against friends, 
 thats good and everything, until you have seen and activated the same Drama piece OVER AND OVER 
 AND OVER AND OVER AGAIN, which again would be fine......
  
  IF YOU COULD SKIP THEM !!!!!!!!!!!!
  
  Although implemented fairly well these Drama Pieces 
 turn from being a great addition to being a hindrance during gameplay and although what gamepot 
 said is true in the way that '' They dont really determine who wins '' it still fells rather dissjointed 
 enough to make the game abit of a chore.
  
  Now aswell as noticing these unlocked Drama pieces during the story who'll also notice the story 
 itself fell abit ( or hugely ) disjointed from pretty much the previous animation scene...
  E. G. in one particular scene Goku fights freiza for a while and finally comes to a desition that 
 the only course of action would be to use the Spirit Bomb, only a second after Goku saying this 
 the Scene jumps to Goku Firing it ......
  
  So what happened to Gohan , Krillin, and piccolo fighting freiza long enough for Goku to gather 
 enough energy?
  Makes me wonder if anyone from Atari even watched the Anime or if they just saw bits of it during 
 Adverts.
  
  Anothering thing as well as skipping fights altogether, '' What if '' fights have been added ( 
 For some stupid reason ) one of these '' what if '' fights include Bardock fighting all of the 
 main Z fighters until he fights Goku.
  Now i cant really complain about the core gameplay, but why in the hell skip important fights that 
 were really in the anime and put in this crap?
  
  Also within the story mode you will unlock all 20 or so of the fighters within Dragonball z Burst 
 Limit, for this ive heard both arguments...
  
  '' ONLY 20 CHARACTERS?... THATS **** '' and
  '' There may be only 20 characters but they all 
 play differently now '' I have found out that boths of these statements are utter crap.
  Yes i'll admit the hand to hand combat is different for around 17 characters but the special attacks 
 are something far different....
  E. G. Yamcha, Goku, Krillin and Gohan all have the same special attack, the KAMEHAMEHA!
  So how 
 can every character play differently if they each have the same DAMN ATTACK.
  
  Of course aswell as the stroy mode Burst Limit offers a few other features for you to pretty much 
 waste your time in, these features are:
  
  Survival Mode: A mode where you keep fighting opponents ( 100 ) as long as your health lasts.
 
  
  Time Attack Mode: A mode where you fight a specific set of opponents and try to beat them as quickly 
 as possible.
  
  Battle Point Mode: A mode where you fight a specific set of opponents and try to score as many 
 points as possible.
  
  Now apart from some good leaderboard options to see who has the best in each mode, these are pretty 
 terrible for 3 main reasons:
  
  1. There all pretty much the same thing but one with a set of health, another with time and the 
 last with a point average.
  
  2. As there is 100 opponents on the survival Mode and only 20 character within the game its highly 
 repeatitive.
  
  3. Unskipable Drama Pieces Oh not only does Burst Limit screw you over with content but it also 
 screws you over with it's online ( from my point of view anyway ) as just like Gamespot stated 
 in there review it's core online feature is 1 Vs. 1 fighting, which it good and all considering 
 alot of fighting games only have this feature, but what makes it far worse than them games would 
 be the LAG during fights, if your opponent is across sea's...
  So be Warned....
  
  Overall Dragonball Z Burst Limit IS a good fighter, with improved Graphics and gameplay but where 
 it shines brightly in Flash and flair it seriously lacks in substance, so much so that it feels 
 this game is the first DBZ ever on sonsoles, However if you are like me a fighting game fan and 
 a dbz fan you will get a few kicks out of this.
  
  The Good:
  
  Nice visuals
  Drama pieces start off being a nice touch
  easy lurning curve
  
  The Bad:
  
  not worth 
 the 40 i payed
  depends on wether you like Eng Dub
  Drama Pieces annoy you after a period 
  
  The Ugly: Online suffers from relentless Lag 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IAMVEGETA
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 3, 2008 6:30 am PT
Review:  Now, I know that the amount of characters is more than halved, but did we even use about half of 
 the Tenkaichi characters? I didn't! Burst Limit gives us the essentials with characters, but much 
 more to offer than that. Many cutscenes and the voice acting from Chris and Sean are amazing, including 
 everyone else. They stepped back to a pure fighting game, with a slight 2-D platform, but with 
 the rush mode, and speed of the game, you hardly ever notice it. The new effects are lovely as 
 well, including the drama pieces. The Drama Pieces give you a massive DBZ feel, take Goku, for 
 instance, if you have more health than he does, and Goku has the Drama Piece, 'Feel For Battle' 
 he admits the other fighter is incredible, but then laughs and says, 'But even when things look 
 this bad... I'm really excited!' Then Son Goku gets ready for more! They've even put in Piccolo 
 and Cells regeneration, partners helping you, better specials, and new combos that really make 
 fighting a Z leveled computer, or others on live, much more interesting. The graphics give it a 
 very nice look, It may not be what most people call 'next gen' but when the game is based of an 
 anime, thats what next gen IS, only better! This game would have been worse if they'd use the budokai 
 fighting style, but instead, they used SHIN Budokai, although, the way Ultimate's work should have 
 been more of a Budokai 3 deal there. All in all, this is the best Dragon Ball Z game, in MY opinion, 
 and I can't wait for the next one, I NEED TO USE SUPER SAIYAN TWO GOKU AND VEGETA!! AND I CAN'T 
 WAIT TO SEE SS3 AND VEGITO AND BUU!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rockerman235
Rating: 5
Date: Jul 3, 2008 2:02 am PT
Review:  Dragonball Z burstlimit is the next game in the long line of DBZ related content for video games. 
 The question is would this be one of the games that sticks out, or would it be another game that 
 is relesed to keep atari above water. Well thats a hard question to answer. while the game is fun 
 to play, and there is nothing wrong with the battle system, after completing the z chronicles, 
 something felt off. This game was made for one, so that only fans could understand the story. Why 
 not spend the extra time to explain what is happening, at least a small degree so that newcomers 
 have some clue to what is going on. Second problem with the story is, it wasn't complete. They 
 completed skipped the entire buu saga. Although not as popular as the cell and frieza sagas, if 
 this game was made for fans, why not go through draong ball z entirely? these confusing problems 
 left a weird aftertaste after i finisehd the z chronicles, because I didn't realize there wouldnt 
 be this saga included. 
  
  Pro's
  
  Fun battle system
  
  Easy to learn the fighting system
  
  Great visuals
  
  Online play, even if laggy at times
 
  
  Con's
  
  Z chronicles, complete let down
  
  cut scenes skrew up action, and then provide no insight
  on the story
  
  Cut Scenes repeated 
 for diffrent battles,
  exactly the same and still make completly 
  no sense
  
  20 charcters....... Didn't we have 150 in tencaichi 3?
  
  short 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 09231991
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 1, 2008 8:45 am PT
Review:  Burst Limit is truly a next-gen anime based game. The very fluid animations, the very fast paced 
 action and high framerate make this the best reenactment of the DBZ universe, EVER! Burst Limit 
 features some new things this time around. The story mode is done like the first budokai with actual 
 cutscenes from the show. The only issue with the story mode is that they rehash the same cutscenes 
 a lot but with different characters. There are definitely some very unique cutscenes that capture 
 the show and then some but the rehashed cutscenes are definitely an issue and something only fans 
 of the show can tolerate. The combat system has been redone to work smoother and faster than the 
 previous budokai games. Every character has their own animations and fight at different speeds 
 then everyone else making every character more unique and different. The game also features a trial 
 section that contains three modes; A survival mode, a Battle Point mode and a timing mode. The 
 game also features for the first time ever, real online play against people around the world. The 
 online though can suffer from lag as well as spammers as well. DBZ: BL features 21 characters as 
 well as 5 stages that have two versions to each. DBZ: BL is definitely worth it if your a huge 
 fan but if not so much, I suggest renting or buying it used. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: diablo8514
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 30, 2008 1:54 pm PT
Review:  when i first played the demo of this game i thought it was going to be awful. until id ecided to 
 buy the game after coming off holiday. but what i found out was that there were'nt many sagas. 
 and there are'nt many charaters in the game as there's about 15-25 i think not many at all. but 
 a few things i liked about this was the online gameplay was ok. the only problem is on a ranked 
 match i beat a few people and well.... there quit to dashboard before i got there points so they 
 did'nt lose points. anyways another thing i liked was the new survival mode i played it on default 
 and custom and got 50 on both my second go on survival default and i got 100. which is the achivement 
 birth of a legend. i might do custom just to get the achivement. i only have 7 achivements left 
 to get. but anyways cut the chit chat bk to the gameplay. a very bad bit which would be the drama 
 scenes your about to finish someone and a drama scene comes up ruining your finishing move or whatever 
 your doing. and it get's really annoying as if u were both low on health and they win cause of 
 it. it is pretty lame. i like the way u get into the aura spark and the ultimate move attack it's 
 a great game altogether but it will never compare to dragonball z budokai 3 if u brought that game 
 up to graphics and speed and no drama scenes and more charaters and arenas to fight in and have 
 lobbys so more then 2 people can go into and wait there turn like on dead or alive 4. but if u 
 had all that on dragonball z burst limit it would be the best dragonball z going. thank you for 
 reading i hope you may have found this helpful. happy gameing. thank's again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hellblaze3
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 29, 2008 1:04 pm PT
Review:  
  This game is a extremely fun game. As the first DBZ game to hit the next gen consoles, it's surprisingly 
 fun. The controls are easy to get used to, and battles are fast paced. The new drama piece system 
 introduces a bit of variety into the game, although i prefer not to use it. The only flaw i see 
 at all in this game is the fact that they recycle battle scenes for almost the whole story. However, 
 this game definately is a must buy and has huge replay value. Online play is another great feature 
 in this game and it really doesn't lag much so long as you play with people in the same country 
 as you. Also, i think player matches are more suitable than ranked matches when playing online 
 since its much more relaxed and you don't see much "vegeta spammers." (You'll know what i mean 
 when you play) . overall, this game is a great start for the next gen DBZ games and i recommend 
 it to all players including non-DBZ fans.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jabstor
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 28, 2008 4:25 am PT
Review:  I think this game is underrated. Yeah it might get frustrating at times like when your beating 
 up a computer character then they just fly off and do the same moves, but all i do is counterattack 
 it after a few goes. The single player mode is quite short but with the difficulties it might take 
 awhile and then there is a few other modes which may take awhile to complete like the survival 
 mode when you have to defeat 100 opponents, which gets harder and harder. Then there is the multi 
 player which is great fun for you and those fingers because of the button mashing.
  The bad things are i think is the computers A. I they act really stupid by doing stale moves all 
 the time the time when you face Krillin all he does is attack with some unavoidable attack but 
 it will get better and show him who is boss.
  The other bad thing is when you are fighting in a corner. WHAT THE HELL!! a corner in an open field 
 yes there is and the camera goes dodgy as well. Tch.
  i think they should make a DLC for this game which includes the next saga and tons of characters. 
 Which will make this game GREAT. So if your looking for a good fighting game. Try this one 
::::::

::::::
UserName: link_1994
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jul 10, 2008 8:48 pm PT
Review:  Any hardcore DBZ fan might have thought when seeing the first trailer "wow this is gonna be the 
 best DBZ game ever" now they're probably saying. "This game sucks, why did I even bother with this 
 junk?" 
  
  
  Story: Almost as if 4kids got the rights to editing the story, I mean c'mon it's rated "T" for 
 christs sakes there's hardly any blood and let me remind you this is a Dragonball Z game on the 
 XBOX360! For example when Piccolo sacrifices himself to save Kid Gohan from Nappa, you'd expect 
 to see some form of damage I mean he just took a destructive blast head-on but he somehow ends 
 up unmarked, even his clothes were in perfect condition. Speaking of story mode, the story has 
 been cut to ribbons, most of it made no sence at all. 
  
  Sound: Sound is good, English voice acting not so good the sound effects fit in with the fighting 
 perfecly though.
  
  Graphics: Possibly the best part of the game, they look as if they came directly out of the anime 
 in HD format. 
  
  Gameplay: The gameplay is very hard to describe, it's really nothing new, except for Drama pieces. 
 The fighting isn't that great afterall you can just "Heavy Smash" your way to victory. 
  
  Overall: This game is slightly above Mediocore, with it's cheap fighting system and horrible story. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CloudXentar
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jun 25, 2008 6:39 am PT
Review:  I really don't know where to start because I expected so much from this game. Sure when you watch 
 the trailers you would say '' Hey it's an enchanted version of Budokai 3 with storyline cutscenes 
 from Budokai 1!''. Unfortunately, the trailer actually made us to believe that, until I wasted 
 my money by getting this.
  
  No matter what you say, this game is another huge step backward in the series. 
  
  PROS
  
 - Characters are well drawn, and if I may say boldly, even better then the cartoon.
  - The fighting controls are great and easy to get into.
  - The catchy new intro made by the awesome 
 Hironobu Kageyama is back.
  - No charging Ki so you only concentrate on the fight
  
  CONS
  - There isn't a story mode, only set up pieces of fights in a certain saga. You get Krillin 
 VS Nappa, for example, and they exchange three sentences and fight while using the same animation 
 and moves in the cutscene which repeats itself every second time with every character's fight. 
 The only new animations and different cutscenes are with Goku VS Vegeta or Frieza, in other words, 
 the only ones you saw on the trailer. 
  
  - Story telling doesn't exist, you only get a fight and if you don't know what happened in the 
 anime then you'll have no clue what is going on.
  
  - The conversations between characters are sometimes written really badly and often not correct 
 comparing to anime or manga.
  
  - The cutscenes never show more then two characters at a time which makes the game feel empty.
 
  
  - Ultimate moves don't look cool and entertaining like in the previous games.
  
  - Small cast of characters, and even if it does cover a certain saga, few of the characters are 
 missing.
  
  - Weak gameplay with all the balanced characters who are almost all the same which in DBZ's case, 
 isn't right.
  
  - Except for Z Chronicles (story mode) , online and offline versus mode, there isn't anything else 
 to do. No tournaments and no building up your characters. 
  
  I can go for hours but there isn't anything else to add. If you like DBZ, better get Budokai 3 
 or Tenkaichi 3 and if you must see some kind of story cutscene, then better get the old Budokai 
 1 cuz it's way better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SuperGeekNo1
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jun 24, 2008 4:54 pm PT
Review:  After the great sensational hit on the PS2 DBZ: Budokai 3 comes this disappoining instalment. Ok 
 so I can look past the whole short story line (Cell Saga) . But this game plays nothing like any 
 other DBZ. You can not charge your energy bar and the energy bar also takes long to regenerate 
 as well as doesn't recover if you're being hit, so allows for cheap juggles when you have none 
 because you can not counter with out. This is a load of crap as it makes it lack that DBZ feel 
 because this also effects the transformation significantly. The Ultimate attacks are not impressive 
 not way close very poor and too easily avoided. The online play is not worth while as the game 
 is already naff so expect a lot of cheap techniques to win, doesn't give the feel you'll expect 
 from a DBZ game.
  
  To bottom line this I'm confused how they backward this game is. You would have though Atari and 
 Bandai would want to top the last proper DBZ game (DBZ: Budokai 3) released on the older consoles. 
 I can only hope that the next DBZ would make major improvements and will consider being more like 
 its predecessor (DBZ: Budokai 3) in terms of game play and perhaps storyline as well.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Steven_Beynon
Rating: 4.5
Date: Jun 24, 2008 10:25 am PT
Review:  
  SCORE: 2/5
  
  Pros 
  
  -All the characters are well drawn, possibly the best recreation of animated characters in a videogame
 
  -Brings online to the Dragonball franchise 
  -Easy to learn fighting mechanics
  -Includes alternate reality side stories, while its a small fish, it's still their
  
  Cons
 
  
  -Those easy to learn mechanics may turn off veteran fighting fans
  -Terrible story telling 
  -Occasional online lag
  -Bad writing 
  -Constantly recycles animations
 
  -Short single player
  -Shallow gameplay
  -Lacks the variety of characters and stages previous titles had
  -Recycled animations
  -Most 
 fans will buy it just because the box says "Dragonball Z" 
  
  Score: 2 out of 5
  
  Dragonball Z Burst Limit is the first Dragonball game to arrive to the current generation, and 
 on its run here it seemed to of lost a lot of potential. If your a fan of the Japanese cartoon 
 you may be disappointed by the way this game conveys its potentially epic story, and minimizes 
 it to short bursts of cutscenes that pathetically introduce each fight which will immediately turn 
 off anyone who isn't a fan of the series. Not that Dragonball Z's story arc is work of genius, 
 but the games presentation on the narrative is just lazy. For series that's all about filler, and 
 pointless dialog (I'm looking at you Frieza saga) Burst Limit ignores all the backstory and focuses 
 on the fighting itself, which makes me wonder what the point of the less than stellar cutscenes 
 are. 
  
  The story follows the bullet points of the Dragonball Z series, taking you to each of the shows 
 important fights starting with the arrival of Raditz, and ending with the battle between Gohan 
 and Cell. So don't worry kids, no one has to deal with the Buu saga, although there's a good chance 
 a sequel will be dedicated to that. The story is just a major disappointment, and I wish it was 
 more fleshed out, or at least the small bits available were better scripted. However, the game 
 does contain unlockable alternate reality side stories, one for both Goku's father Bardock, and 
 the nefarious psychopathic Broly. While these seem like good distractions it was cool to see Bardock 
 interact with Vegeta, and Goku. Broly's on the other hand is a pure distraction, and proves he's 
 a worthless character.
  
  Story aside, Burst Limit offers a decent fighting system. You wont find the depth that other fighters 
 have, but rather an easy to learn button masher. Once you master dodging, and hitting Up and B 
 to do an Ultimate Attack, you pretty much mastered the concept. This doesn't mean the fighting 
 is bad at all, in fact it's good middle ground between a game like Tekken, and Smash Bros. One 
 of the more interesting features is the fatigue meter. In theory the more you fight, and more you 
 utilize special Ki moves, the higher the gauge would fill, and you would slowly become weaker and 
 more open to attacks from your foe. While this is how it should work, it doesn't play enough of 
 a role that effects the combat. The fatigue meter pokes an interesting possibility I look forward 
 to a sequel developing. 
  
  While Burst Limit has multiple issues, the worst of all are the visuals, and sound. When I say 
 visuals, I don't mean graphics, the game itself looks fantastic. Every character is rendered beautifully, 
 all the environments look fantastic, all that is fine. The atrocious quality in the cosmetic department 
 is the non-playable animations, so basically cutscenes. Characters on screen look stiff and feature 
 no personality, nor does it appear as if DIMPS bothered to do motion capture during the development 
 of this game. It's a shame such well drawn characters suffer in "story" scenes, and recycled animations. 
 Joining motion capture, American music is also MIA, which I fail to understand. DBZ doesn't have 
 any fantastic score, but does feature its own distinct music, and the lack of it in the game will 
 turn off many hardcore fans. But those fans will favor the cheesy under modulated music someone 
 created in Soundtrack Pro instead. 
  
  The golden goose Burst Limit does offer is the first ever online play in a Dragonball game, however 
 the online play is very basic. The only thing you can really do is hook up with another player 
 and fight however many rounds the host chooses. It would have been nice to have tournaments or 
 possibly some other modes, but it's a relief that Dragonball Z fans can finally duke it out. A 
 major downside to the online is the abounding amount of lag plaguing the game, while this is a 
 possible future patch nothing has yet to be announced. 
  
  It's a shame that the overall product of Dragonball Z: Burst Limit is a disappointment. In fact 
 the long roster list that the series is known for isn't even present. Players will find the major 
 characters of the series such as Goku, Vegeta, Cell, Frieza, but 24 characters, and only a handful 
 of uninteresting levels is what really pulls this game down considering previous entries to the 
 series had nearly all the characters in the series. The lack of many fighters would be excused 
 if their fighting styles were more distinct, however, with variables of speed aside all the DBZ 
 characters fight exactly the same. 
  
  Rabid fans will buy anything involved with their favorite series, and its unfortunate Dragonball 
 Z has that fanbase. If you love Dragonball Z so much you secretly do kamehamea waves in front of 
 the mirror in the bathroom, then you'll enjoy Burst Limit. Despite the new name, this is basically 
 Budukai 4, and don't be fooled by the idea of this being the first appearance of DBZ in the current 
 generation of consoles. Rather your a huge fan or just enjoy the franchise, it would be hard to 
 be not disappointed by Dragonball Z: Burst Limit. If the lack of innovation, and DIMPS crapping 
 on this major anime doesn't bother you, then you might be one of those people who are willing to 
 pay for crap if it has the right name on it. 
  
  Steven_Beynon
  Gamertag: Epicbomb 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jeffbtall
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 23, 2008 11:34 am PT
Review:  The game is about everything the developers said it would be.. The graphics of the game are by 
 far the best quality of the game itself and made me wish they would re-develope the actual series 
 with CG.. Can you imagine the entire series looking like FF: advent children? The gameplay is very 
 fun and its obvious that the developers have improved their skills from Budokai 3. One one hand, 
 some people said that the tenkaichi series was not balanced enough and that burst limit did an 
 excellent job equalizing the players out. This is a good and bad thing, good for online play and 
 vs mode, but in the sense that that is not really DBZ. I did like the not having to charge up, 
 and this made the game easier, but POWERING up is a big BIG part of DBZ. The stages were too small 
 for the DBZ world, and the free roaming of Tenkaichi was what DBZ is. Burst Limits fighting mechanics 
 are the best i have played in the DBZ gaming universe. I really got annoyed at the repetative cutscenes.. 
 Different character performing the same combo and different characters in the cutscenes. But the 
 cutscenes that were original and a one time thing, were fantastic to watch.. Sound was excellent 
 and i love they added the japanese voices, but i was hoping for the japanese music as well. Overall 
 i would give the game a 7.5 because it was fun dispite the nitpicks i have been stating. i just 
 hope they learn from their mistakes and be able to provide more story, more characters, more original 
 cutscenes, and learned that the xbox360 can do much more that what they already did a great job 
 on. It could be leaps and bounds better with the capabilities of the system. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Meatloaf2
Rating: 5
Date: Jun 22, 2008 7:34 pm PT
Review:  The game play was enjoyable and great, but the lack of characters and the shortness of the story 
 line make the game horrible. Don't get me wrong I love DBZ to death, but this game just didn't 
 give it any justice. I beat the game in 3 hours without trying, and if your have never seen an 
 episode of DBZ you will be so lost when they show the cut scenes. They never explain how thing 
 happen like how cell got the chance to transform. Then there is the fact that there are only around 
 15 characters, Budokai was better than this game. I mean Goku can't even go Super Saiyan 2, but 
 Vegeta, Trunks and Teen Gohan can, I guess they don't want to make Goku strong like he really is. 
 Really the only thing good about this game is that Broly is included, next gen graphics and the 
 fast action game play, without that I wouldn't have even given the game a 5.0. I only wish they 
 would have studied the series better before releasing the game. If you plan on getting the game 
 don't buy it just rent it, I regret ever spending $60 on it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vivvav
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 22, 2008 4:40 pm PT
Review:  I started playing DBZ games around Budokai (not that I owned any until Tenkaichi 2) , and since 
 then, I've only played the home console games (with the exception of one really good GBA game) .
 
  The original Budokai was a standard sidescrolling fighter: You had normal attacks, you had supermoves. 
 And since it was DBZ, you could fly and transform. Pretty standard. There were also some story 
 challenges, like lining yourself up for you and Raditz to get killed by Piccolo, or charging up 
 your power so you could kill Goku and Raditz as Piccolo. But it was a fun game.
  Tenkaichi took things to a whole new angle, literally. The open world behind the back deal was 
 a lot of fun, and it really opened up gameplay alot.
  Now we've gone back to 2-D views with Burst Limit, and honestly, I'm not too thrilled about it. 
 The gameplay seems to have a lot of kinks and annoying things in it:
  Pros and Cons:
  Normal Attacks: Normal attacks are normal attacks, nice and reliable, and you gotta be right next 
 to the guy to hit. But if the guy's guarding it, you might as well be spitting on him, because 
 it will do an equivalent amount of damage.
  Supermoves: The Supermoves are pretty cool, and you don't lose any ki unless you execute your ultimate 
 one. Unfortunately, neither does your opponent, who can also interrupt your attack.
  Ki Blasts: Ki Blasts are nice long ranged attacks. They're also totally useless unless you're the 
 world's greatest game master, or the game's computer.
  Guarding: Guarding is a nice way to reduce damage. Unfortunately, this is all the computer does, 
 so you're **** when it takes a break from superguarding and deflecting your ultimate attack to 
 launch one of its own when you're not ready.
  
  There were some new elements introduced as well:
  Aura Spark: Aura Spark allows you to harness 
 your full strength when your Ki bar is full (ie: every 10 seconds) to pull some serious badassery. 
 Every hit of yours is like a full charged attack (so the game claims) and you can do one of those 
 awesome fight sequences where you fly around punching and blocking each other. Of course, the computer 
 is a lot better at it then you, just like everything else.
  Drama Pieces: Drama Pieces seem to be more like Crap Pieces, as they're randomly triggered events 
 (the game claims there's criteria for them to occur, but I have no **** clue what it is, and you 
 usually have to be almost dead for it to happen) that just temporarily raise a stat. If you're 
 lucky, you may have picked the one where Piccolo and Cell regenerate and get a health bar, but 
 that's it. Overall, not really worth it, and they're like unskippable cutscenes.
  
  Now it's time to talk about the game's selling point: It's Dragonball Z.
  If you're new to the 
 series, you're in luck. The game currently comes with a bonus DVD featuring the first seven episodes 
 of DBZ. Sadly, this only informs you during the three parts you fight with Raditz. Afterwards, 
 you're screwed again.
  That's right: The game tells the story terribly. The Budokai Tenkaichi games had the decency to 
 give you a narrator so you had a **** clue what's going on. Burst Limit jumps around from one important 
 fight to the next, skipping battles and giving you no explanation for who Freeza is, why Vegeta 
 gives a **** or why you play the game as these characters the whole time and then start brutally 
 destroying them as Brolly, the king of Steroidville. If you care about DBZ's story, and don't want 
 to, say, read the manga or watch the TV show, stop reading this and go buy and play Budokai Tenkaichi 
 2. The game took me 48 hours to beat, 41 of which was gameplay, 6 of which was storytelling, which 
 was actually really good and the other one of which was saving, buying **** and going on this site 
 to find out how to unlock people.
  Then there's the characters. We got Saiyan Saga Goku and Goku who can go Super Saiyan. Of these, 
 you want the second. Then we have Kid Gohan and Teen Gohan (this doesn't go through the Majin Buu 
 saga. BL2 anyone?) where once again, you want the second. We have Krillin, who's just Krillin, 
 Picollo, Androids 16, 17, and 18, Cell and his forms, Frieza and his forms, Vegeta, Trunks, Bardock, 
 Raditz, Nappa, Yamcha, Tien, and Brolly. This is stunningly small for a cast for a DBZ game, and 
 it must have taken them all the restraint they had at Bandai/Namco to not make this game have 100 
 characters (don't worry, it will in the sequel) . Still, it's a decent cast for anyone just looking 
 for a game, and unless you're a die-hard fan who wants to play as obscure characters like Devil 
 Man or Nail (like I did, and got my wish in BT3) , you're going to be a very happy person with this 
 game. Sadly though, no Giant Monsters. Just Brolly, who's really **** big. Pit him against Kid 
 Gohan. Hilarious.
  
  Overall, this isn't a bad game on its own. If you don't give a **** about the story and just want 
 a good game, but know nothing about DBZ, get it. It's decent. I really do like it a lot. I just 
 don't like it in comparison to the Tenkaichi games, which I loved. I also don't like its terrible 
 storytelling, but I can live with it. Anyway, if you're looking for a good time, and don't want 
 to call the number the creepy rapist wrote on the bathroom stall door, get this game. And despite 
 the bad things I've said, make no mistake: I will get the sequel. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darkdtrex
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 22, 2008 8:57 am PT
Review:  very good i think it is great but can still use a few adjustmentslike the sound needs to be on 
 time not a second slow be able to doge better and be able to fuse and give people the proper moves 
 like e. g. vegeta final flash is nt a beam its waves of energy and make the story lin longer don't 
 skip out some and they should give the characters more clothes and proper ones goku hasn't got 
 the clothes where his sash isnt hanging out and add more multilayer, options like racing who can 
 beat most characters faster wins points or zennie. There should let us have free flight ands more 
 aura moves. The instructions should be more clear because it dosen't tell you how to control yamacha's 
 spirt ball attack other then that shey should be able to collect dragonballs and call shenron and 
 put in a mini game if you get bored. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PrinceForte
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 21, 2008 9:59 pm PT
Review:  When I first tried a Dragonball Z game, it was Dragonball Z: Budokai for the Nintendo Gamecube. 
 Then I tried my hand at its successor, Budokai 2. Since most of the other Dragonball Z games were 
 for the Playstation lineup, I lost interest in the series. I wasn't even keeping track of how many 
 games were being made. But then, recently, Dragonball Z: Burst Limit for the Xbox 360 caught my 
 eye, and the trailer caused me to lose muscle -- and saliva -- control in my jaw.
  
  Burst Limit is one of the first games I've ever played on an Xbox 360. When I popped it in to the 
 console for the first time, I sat through the entire opening cinema just to hear the theme song 
 and look at the convincing punches, kicks, and visuals. I braced myself for what I thought would 
 be a game of truly epic proportions.
  
  Let's start with controls. Given the Xbox 360's comfortable controller layout, and the game's simple 
 combo system, learning the moves of the game's characters was as easy as a single sit-through of 
 the tutorial, followed by an hour or so of practice in Training mode. I especially liked how easy 
 it was to use techniques, knock enemies flying, have a brawl, through a Ki blast, etc. It alleviated 
 the frustration I'd experienced while playing earlier Dragonball Z games. It's true what they say: 
 newcomers and veterans alike can play this game.
  
  Now, graphics. Oh boy, the graphics. I won't deny it: the Xbox 360 does this game justice. Flashy 
 super moves, blazing auras, colorful backgrounds. Yeah, there's no "used-coffee-filter vision" 
 (read: realism) and obnoxious bloom effects here. When you're playing this game, you WILL feel 
 like you've got the anime itself literally at your fingertips.
  
  Gameplay: Easy. That's all there is to it. I can only describe the CPU as 'childish' (I wanted 
 to use different terminology, but Gamespot tapped me on the nose with a newspaper for doing so) . 
 Even on normal level, because I blew through the first two sagas with nary a single loss, except 
 when I got too carried away and tried one too many times to finish with an 'ultimate move.' At 
 the time of this review, I haven't unlocked the higher difficulties, so this may be subject to 
 change. It's also hard to tell when a Drama Scene will kick in, and being unable to brace for it 
 breaks the flow of gameplay. Sometimes, when I'd just launched a super move, a Drama Scene would 
 cut in and I'd have done no damage to the computer whatsoever, which got a bit annoying after this 
 occurred more than a few times. And while we're mentioning moves, this game employs a lot of them, 
 and they're cheap. Probably the cheapest move is the Pursuit Attack, which is when a player knocks 
 back the enemy and immediately presses the shoulder button afterward, causing his/her player to 
 appear behind the opponent and knock them in another direction at least 3 or 4 times. Second cheapest? 
 The Ultimate Defense, which employs the use of Ki to create an aura barrier that can block even 
 Ultimate Attacks.
  
  At this point of the review, I would like to mention what I found to be the most disappointing 
 aspect of the game: the between-fight cutscenes. Not the Drama Scenes during fights, mind you. 
 They're repetitive. They're cut-and-paste. I'm not lying to you: in more than one cutscene preceding 
 or succeeding a fight, you will see different characters move in perfectly identical patterns to 
 other characters in other cutscenes. Not only that, but the lip-syncing was only done with the 
 Japanese voice acting in mind. How hard is it to add extra movements for English cast lip-syncing 
 as well, especially when it's all computer-animated? The developers obviously weren't too focused 
 on quality: they got lazy, and cut corners. I didn't notice all of this at first, but when I did, 
 it practically ruined half the game.
  
  All in all, Dragonball Z: Burst Limit is easy to play, fun to play, and full of eye-candy, but 
 when you look at the game as a whole, you can tell it was made just like all the others in the 
 series: half-assed. Maybe 3/4-assed, at best. My advice to those looking to buy it is to wait for 
 it to drop in price before you do. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: guitar_27
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 21, 2008 5:51 pm PT
Review:  For people that like dragon ball z games and played them before: dragon ball z burst limit has 
 the best gameplay in the series, you are never out of the fight. it has only 21 characters to play 
 even though other games haves over 150 characters. if you like good gameplay over lots of variety 
 you should get it.
  dragon ball z newcomers. you might not want it because it dosent teach you about the story they 
 skipped alot from the series.
  everybody it has a short story but you will never get tired of it because of live combat against 
 others across the world, trial mode, and similar to live play local against a friend except then 
 you can rub it in there faces if you win. dragon ball z burst limit is a great game and you should 
 get a copy. And also if you are thinking of getting dragon ball z tenkatchi 3 dont! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deathx112
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 20, 2008 3:11 pm PT
Review:  This has to be the BEST dragon ball Z game i have ever played! It is filled with action, exitment, 
 and has just a great look to it. When i look at burst limit's battles compared to the other DBZ 
 games for ps2 i say "WOW"!!! They really have out done there selfs with this one. The good things 
 about this game is that it has a fun and an amazing story mode and great online play. Also there 
 are lots of fun achievements, and some that you have to work hard to get! One of the bad things 
 about Burst Limit is the story mode is GREAT, but just a little to short. Also what i would have 
 liked to see in this dragon ball z is the Buu saga, but they failed to put that in. In the end 
 this game is one of my favorite DBZ game and i would like to see some improvements in the next 
 one, but Burst Limit still kept me busy and happy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DS-man
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 20, 2008 11:13 am PT
Review:  Theres one thing great about DBZ games and thats its intense battles in colourfull ways. Huge exsplotions 
 and attacks that can destroy mountains.
  Burst Limit is the most intense so far, the gameplay is super fast and exstreame with a decent 
 roaster of fighters in a lenghy story mode.
  
  Saddly the game is'nt as deep found in Budokai3 with the flyign free mode nor the RPG element. 
 the best thing in this game is the drama scne that gives an helping hand during battles. the Online, 
 first found in a DBZ game, is brilliant, apart from the slow down when facing ppl in different 
 countries. = (
  
  
 
  OVERAL: I think this is the best DBZ By far. fast, thrilling and non stop. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ATLien122
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 22, 2008 10:12 pm PT
Review:  I am a fan of the Dragon Ball Z series and if you are anything like me, you were not completely 
 happy with this game. It looks great, plays pretty well and gives you that "Wow" feeling, but it 
 only lasts about 2-3 days. The new "cut scenes" that have been added will look cool at first, but 
 they won't be so cool when you're doing one of you're "ultimate attacks" that could change the 
 tide of the battle and all of a sudden, Krilin pop up and cuts it short. Another thing that I wasn't 
 particularly happy with was the fighting mechanics. It is to easy for people to win battles with 
 only using blasts (All people do online is keep there distance and use ki blasts, it's boring) , 
 which takes the hand to hand combat out of the picture. The online is pretty good, and runs with 
 few lags. Overall the game is ok, but there is still a lot of room for improvement. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: braylee
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 19, 2008 2:05 pm PT
Review:  Ok so if you are a DBZ video game or even love the show and dont play the games this game is for 
 you. The visuals of it are spectacular. It makes the artwork of the original show look bland and 
 boring (which it isnt) . Although the character selection is very few compared to the recent release 
 DBZBT3 its still has a wide variety of playables. I realy enjoyed how they blened the cut scenes 
 with the actual fighting. Although when some of the stuff that happened in the show was not depicted 
 into the game like the account with King Cold and Meta-Frieza yet it still makes it worth the pick 
 up and buy. This instalment also features an awsome online mode where you can choose to battle 
 player match (wont effect your rank) or choose Ranked match (win gain points loss lose points) . This 
 makes it a more of a competition than just a game. If you are not sure about it just go out to 
 the Xbox live marketplace and Download the demo for free and test its out. 
  
  This is one of the best DBZ games so far so it is a must buy for the fans but a good buy for everyone 
 else. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DisturbedMDD
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 19, 2008 12:36 pm PT
Review:  I found that this new Dragon Ball Z game is both refreshing and slightly off-putting. The actual 
 fighting in the game wasn't bad but I just found it to be a little too repetitive. However, the 
 drama sequences that you could activate in the middle of battle were a nice little addition, bringing 
 the action of the fight to life. Also, the story mode was great in that it brought the TV show 
 back; but it only goes up to the Cell Saga. The amount of characters in the game was probably the 
 biggest setback because of how many were in the last few games and they left out some of the biggest 
 characters. Overall, the game did just like it was said to do, go back to the TV series, but I 
 felt like they just decided to give up at the Cell Saga. To me, it felt a lot like the arcade game 
 Super Dragon Ball Z. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AK_the_Twilight
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 18, 2008 12:51 pm PT
Review:  Is it already time for another DBZ game? Well, here we go again. Dragon Ball Z; it's arguably one 
 of the most popular anime in history, spanning many a saga following the travels and trials of 
 Son Goku, Mr. Super Saiyan himself. Dragon Ball Z games have been hit-and-miss for years now. Yes, 
 I know that Budokai 3 was incredible. Yes, I know that the Budokai Tenkaichi games were fun and 
 challenging, but suffered from an annoying camera and long load times. But I like Budokai Tenkaichi 
 3 for the Wii, despite its problems. It is time, however, for the Xbox 360 to get a DBZ game. Equipped 
 with impressive graphics, online play and a return to the classic Budokai style of gameplay, Dragon 
 Ball Z: Burst Limit is the first DBZ installment for the 360. But has DBZ reached its limit here?
 
  
  Dragon Ball Z has been around the globe for nearly twenty years now, so if you haven't heard of 
 it, it's about time you learned why this is such a phenomenon. The story focuses around the adventures 
 of Son Goku, a man from Earth who also is part of the Saiyan race, a powerful group of aliens based 
 around warrior code. In the world of Dragon Ball Z, there are seven magical spheres known as the 
 Dragon Balls that when collected, summon the dragon Shenron to grant a wish to the collector. Along 
 the way, Goku meets up with some nasty aliens like his eternal rival Vegeta, along with other beings 
 who want the Dragon Balls like space creature Frieza and android Cell. It all gets pretty complicated, 
 but one thing that DBZ always manages to deliver is intense action, mostly the different characters 
 trying to beat the crap out of each other. The different characters have their own methods of flying, 
 firing explosive blasts of energy, or even the famous Super Saiyan transformation. Don't be too 
 confused about the story; Dragon Ball Z is mostly about the action, which it accomplishes extremely 
 well.
  
  So that's DBZ. The question, though, is: what about DBZ: Burst Limit? This is the first Dragon 
 Ball Z game on the Xbox 360, and is supposedly the first next-gen DBZ game (not including DBZ: 
 Budokai Tenkaichi 2 and 3 for the Wii) . As far as the next-generation graphics and presentation 
 go, Burst Limit does look amazing. The mix of blurring energy effects and cel-shaded characters 
 is quite impressive. Energy attacks ripple with motion blur and the entire package manages to look 
 incredibly sharp. However, you will notice reused animations both in battle and during cutscenes, 
 which both are incredibly frequent. I did find the menu screens to be bland, but it was a minor 
 issue. As far as the voice acting goes, you do get both English and Japanese voice acting. I wasn't 
 bothered by the English voice acting (although the horrifically frequent use of the term "darn 
 it," was particularly annoying) . Sean Schemmel still voices Goku well; Chris Sabat does the same 
 as Vegeta and Piccolo. Sure, a few manage to make a few waves, but it wasn't at all bad. For the 
 purists, the Japanese voice acting is there. The sound effects are also well done; crashes and 
 explosions sound off in battle. The presentation is a major step up from the Budokai Tenkaichi 
 games, as the amazing graphics and sound show.
  
  But the gameplay is the star here, so the question remains: has it changed? Back under the control 
 of Dimps (the company behind the original Budokai series) instead of Spike (the company behind 
 the Tenkaichi series) , I expected a return to form. Budokai 3 was a remarkable achievement, and 
 Burst Limit does follow in its footsteps. On the other hand, Burst Limit borrows a few ideas from 
 Tenkaichi as well. Controls are generally easy to get a handle on. A to guard, B for a ki blast, 
 X and Y for hand-to-hand attacks. Combinations of the triggers and bumpers allow for some quick, 
 though complicated, evasive maneuvers. It isn't as simple as Budokai 3's evasion system, but it 
 isn't anywhere near as demanding as Tenkaichi's, which is definitely a good thing. The game focuses 
 back on Budokai 3's mechanics, though the camera can get a bit confused during the fray. Fortunately, 
 it's not as bad as Tenkaichi's was. All of this comes together pretty nicely, but it can draw down 
 to a button-masher at times. Super moves can be pretty cheap and simplistic, and the CPU players 
 can be vulnerable most of the times. There are, however, a slew of difficulty levels to challenge 
 you. Overall, the gameplay has its ups and downs, but manages to make some interesting progressions 
 and repairs a lot of the missteps of past games.
  
  For the Dragon Ball Z fans out there, you do get your favorite characters like Goku, Vegeta, Gohan, 
 Piccolo and such, though you won't get as comprehensive a roster as seen before. Not only does 
 the main story mode only go through three sagas, you don't get many of the more obscure characters. 
 You do get some surprises after completing the main story mode, but this isn't the most collective 
 of Dragon Ball Z games, which is a bit of a letdown. However, new to the mix are Drama Pieces, 
 special pieces of cinema that not only show essential moments in the DBZ timeline, but can also 
 change the tide of battle themselves. When certain conditions are met in battle like your character 
 having low health or dodging a special attack, you may be surprised by an ally appearing or a significant 
 power-up. Although these are unskippable and can be a bit repetitive at times, these add an interesting 
 mix of cinematic and strategic factors. You can unlock Drama Pieces in the story mode, and when 
 battling in VS. Mode, you can equip up to three of your collected Drama Pieces to power up a character. 
 Although they don't change the gameplay tremendously, they're interesting inclusions and are cool 
 to watch and experiment with.
  
  As far as modes go, you get the traditional storyline mode where you play as different characters 
 throughout Dragon Ball Z history. It's here that you unlock characters, stages, and Drama Pieces 
 to use in the other modes. As explained before, there are only three sagas and not all battles 
 are represented, so the main story can be pretty short. Returning to the main story is essential 
 to unlock the Drama Pieces, so there's a bit of replay value in the storyline. Along with that 
 is Trial Mode, which includes different things like Survival and Time Attack mode. One of the biggest 
 inclusions is online play, which is actually rather robust. You can jump into a quick match, either 
 basic or ranked, and compete against players all over the world. There is the occasional problem 
 with lag, which can be pretty annoying, but this is pretty rare and occurs mostly during battles 
 with very distant players. The VS. Mode also has two-player local versus matches and you can even 
 let some CPU characters battle. There's also a Training Mode, along with a Tutorial Mode, but aside 
 from that, the modes are pretty empty. If you're not a huge fan of online play or collecting Drama 
 Pieces, Burst Limit may not deliver. It is a shame that the game is so limited when it comes to 
 options, especially compared to the Tenkaichi series, which had a great variety of modes.
  
  Pros
  + Excellent graphic style
  + Drama Pieces are surprisingly involving
  + Online 
 play
  + English and Japanese voice acting
  
  Cons
  - Sparse on modes and longevity
  - Online play has a degree of lag
  - Not as comprehensive as other DBZ games
  
  Dragon Ball 
 Z: Burst Limit is definitely the best looking DBZ game yet; the 360's graphical power makes the 
 battles look sharp and clean. The energy effects are amazing and the cel-shaded characters are 
 great to watch. To compliment the strong graphics, you get the English and Japanese voice work, 
 both of which sound great. The gameplay, however, is a bit hit-and-miss. You do get improved controls 
 and new Drama Pieces to change gameplay, but the evasion system is still a bit too complex. Burst 
 Limit is also extremelywelllimited when it comes to modes, offering only VS, Trial, Tutorial 
 and Training aside from the main storyline. The online play is a welcome inclusion and the many 
 Drama Pieces offer some fun replay value, but it would've been better to see some more modes on 
 the whole. For DBZ fans, you won't find all of your favorite characters from the Dragon Ball Z 
 narrative, but there's a decent amount of diverse characters to play as throughout. Overall, DBZ: 
 Burst Limit makes some next-gen improvements to both presentation and gameplay, but it sacrifices 
 quite a bit of content to get the whole thing going. Fewer sagas and modes is a disappointment, 
 but if you can look past some of the missing content, you'll find a sharp-looking and challenging 
 fighter for the Xbox 360. It's best worth a rental first though, both for DBZ fans and gamers alike. 
 Newcomers shouldn't fear the license and will most likely enjoy the game's over-the-top fighting 
 style and great-looking graphics. Check it out for a solid 360 fighter.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: gearsofwar1221
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 18, 2008 11:57 am PT
Review:  I used to love DBZ as a kid, and after I stopped watching it I didn't think I would ever start 
 again. This game changed all that. The great fighting mechanics, the fun story, and the characters 
 all made me want to watch the show all over again. This is a great fighting game, and is good for 
 both fans of DBZ and anyone who just likes to punch other people. I recommend this game to anyone 
 and everyone. 
  
  However, there are some things that keep this game from being a 10. The story could be a lot longer 
 and skips over some good parts. They also cut out a lot of characters from the parts that they 
 do have in it. The inclusion of the Broly and Bardock movies were good and added some extra fights 
 and characters. While 21 characters may not quite seem like enough it still has plenty to play 
 and have fun with.
  
  The inclusion of online was also very helpful to this game's success. While it can be laggy at 
 times, it's still fun to fight with people from around the world and I've never had trouble finding 
 a match.
  
  Overall this game is a lot of fun to play. It's a great fighting game and also has a great story 
 for fans of the series. While it does have some faults it overcomes them, and is a great game that 
 I enjoyed every minute of
  
  i loved this dbz game my favrate one of them all 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jaybird209
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 17, 2008 4:32 pm PT
Review:  It's an ok game whether you're a fan of the series or not. If you are a fan, then you'll probably 
 like it just because its DBZ. The idea of drama pieces is pretty neat, but it can get pretty annoying. 
 There's a lack of characters that I don't really care about, but I still want them in the series 
 just to make it more open, such as Zarbon and Dodoria, the rest of the ginyu force, and the rest 
 of the androids, even Chioutzu. Story mode is fun, I liked that, but the drama pieces replaced 
 buying moves, which gave me a reason to keep on playing on the other DBZ games. And without the 
 moves, Tournament mode was replaced with survival mode, time battle mode, and point battle mode, 
 which are too long and hardly anything is given back, other than achievements. If you really want 
 a DBZ game for your next gen console, just wait till they get to atleast the Buu saga or into GT. 
 Otherwise, just wait till a drop price of $30-$40. (Also, I may be wrong on some stuff, cuz I only 
 played it at my friends house, but I think I played it long enough) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stave001
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 17, 2008 9:43 am PT
Review:  I used to love DBZ as a kid, and after I stopped watching it I didn't think I would ever start 
 again. This game changed all that. The great fighting mechanics, the fun story, and the characters 
 all made me want to watch the show all over again. This is a great fighting game, and is good for 
 both fans of DBZ and anyone who just likes to punch other people. I recommend this game to anyone 
 and everyone. 
  
  However, there are some things that keep this game from being a 10. The story could be a lot longer 
 and skips over some good parts. They also cut out a lot of characters from the parts that they 
 do have in it. The inclusion of the Broly and Bardock movies were good and added some extra fights 
 and characters. While 21 characters may not quite seem like enough it still has plenty to play 
 and have fun with.
  
  The inclusion of online was also very helpful to this game's success. While it can be laggy at 
 times, it's still fun to fight with people from around the world and I've never had trouble finding 
 a match.
  
  Overall this game is a lot of fun to play. It's a great fighting game and also has a great story 
 for fans of the series. While it does have some faults it overcomes them, and is a great game that 
 I enjoyed every minute of. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheLastSamurai
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 24, 2008 10:12 am PT
Review:  Mechanics:
  
  The game truly captures the feeling of ultimate power and super fast action of the dragonball z 
 series. The new simplification of the controls is welcome as they allow players to easy perform 
 flashy maneuvers while still providing a complex system for hardcore players. The drama piece system 
 adds a new level of strategy that has the potential to determine the outcome of many battles.
 
  
  Single Player:
  
  The story spans from the saiyan saga through the cell games. While certain important plot elements 
 are not show at times, it is generally easy for anyone not familiar with the series to deduce what 
 is happening in the story. Each character feels unique with their own special and ultimate moves 
 as well as drama pieces. However, there aren't many characters. The two extended "what if" scenarios 
 plot lines are welcome and provide a nice side track. The trial modes are enjoyable but standard 
 in terms of the fighting genre. In all, the single player is handled nicely but should have extended 
 through the Buu sagas.
  
  Multiplayer:
  
  A standard 1 vs. 1 mode that does things well and others poorly. It is nice that when powering 
 up to a level such as super saiyan, your player never powers back down, even in later rounds of 
 the match, unless you are being completely destroyed. Lag is a giant issue in the game but I believe 
 that is something that will ultimately be fixed. The largest issue with multiplayer is the ability 
 for players to pick certain characters and use certain abilities of characters to be cheap in matches. 
 Of my time with the multiplayer, which was around 35 matches, every adversary I faced save for 
 4 chose the same character and used one particular move. The move would knock me to the ground 
 and the other players would continue to use that move over and over, hitting me each time I leapt 
 from the ground. Dodging the attack is possible but is difficult considering the fatigue bar and 
 the timing of the move. 
  
  Overall:
  
  All in all, this is a fun fighting game that adds interesting aspects to the game but lacks many 
 of the unique characters of the DBZ universe. If you like DBZ or you simply want a fun fighting 
 game that you could play with friends (as long as they weren't cheap) this is a game for you.
 
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: luffy513
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 15, 2008 11:03 pm PT
Review:  Dragon Ball Z: Burst Limit is the newest game in the series, and the first to be HD. The game looks 
 beautiful, but how does it play?
  
  The game introduces the new Gameplay mechanics through it's tutorial mode, which does a fantastic 
 job at explaining all the moves you can do, and leaves the comboing for you to decide. It's a good 
 start for what I will assume will be the first out of a trilogy of games (as Budokai and Tenkaichi 
 both were) . You have your typical energy attacks, physical attacks, but then there's slightly complicated, 
 more powerful attacks you can use.
  
  Before each battle, you first choose your characters. Surprisingly, you can only start in your 
 first form. This is a good choice from the developers because it makes online more even, unlike 
 how in Tenkaichi 3 you could choose Super Saiyan 4 Goku while the opponent may choose a small character 
 like Kid Gohan. 
  
  Next you choose your finishing move, which determines how many energy bars you have. I see SO much 
 possibility of expansion on this idea. In Tenkaichi 3, there would be multiple versions of 1 character, 
 like 4 different Vegetas from 4 different sagas. I could see the Burst Limit series using this 
 finishing move option as a way of determining which version of the character will be your maximum 
 transformation, which excites me very much when I think of how this system could be utilized... but 
 I digress.
  
  Next you choose any partner that you've unlocked, and up to 3 "drama pieces", which could protect 
 you from energy attacks, a combo, or even heal your health. The game could use more complex moves, 
 as most AI-controlled characters can be defeated by using the same strategy over and over again. 
 But like I said, it's a good start and it's not as rough as the first Budokai game started out 
 as.
  
  Z Chronicals, the main story mode of the game, is like a jumbled mess. You'll go from battle to 
 battle and, unless you've followed the anime, you have no idea why, lets say... Piccolo is fighting 
 himself. Any loyal DBZ fan could tell you that Piccolo has an ability to make copies of himself 
 and that a couple times during the series, he's trained by doing so. But when you enter the 'chapter' 
 where Piccolo fights himself, there's no introduction to the battle at all. Another good example 
 is when Tien fights Nappa. Tien says he'll fight for Chaotzu's sacrifice. What sacrifice would 
 that be? It's never even shown in the game! Obviously it's because Chaotzu self-destructed himself 
 on Nappa as an attempt to kill him and failed, but no normal people would know this. The game does 
 a very poor job of telling any sort of story.
  
  The background music is probably the best out of any game. It's pretty techno-like and exciting 
 sounding, and for once it doesn't give you a headache! It almost seems like you never hear the 
 same track twice. The voice acting is good but it bugs me a lot to see the mouths not synch with 
 the words, which is just laziness from the programmers of the game. You're typical DBZ soundeffects 
 are in the game as well, and they aren't any worse or better than past games.
  
  Where the game definately falls short is character roster. While Tenkaichi 3 covers every Dragon 
 Ball-watcher's dream character, Burst Limit only covers up to the Cell saga. What's surprising, 
 though, is that the game even leaves out characters important to the story! Androids 19 and 20 
 are nowhere to be found, Zarbon and Dodoria aren't even mentioned in the story, 3 members of the 
 Ginyu Force are missing, and the entire Garlic Jr. saga is skipped over. This is largely disappointing, 
 as it could've expanded the slim roster of 21 to a total of up to 29! Hopefully the roster will 
 be expanded greatly when the next game releases through the Buu Saga (or maybe, JUST MAYBE, some 
 DLC will be thrown our way) .
  
  Overall, the game is a nice distraction, and I think only DBZ fans would like this game. It certainly 
 isn't the best game in the series, so hopefully DIMPS will get their act together and polish the 
 game mechanics and expand the character roster to a point where it can rival the Tenkaichi series.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Budokai-freak10
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 15, 2008 10:28 pm PT
Review:  This is a great step forward. It was better than I expected! I thought I'd be pretty decent for 
 the first game in the series, but I was blown of my feet! What an awesome game! I love it! It's 
 a great DBZ game! It's highly addicting and I probably won't get bored of it until DBZ: Burst Limit 
 2! Online play is my only dilemma. It gets laggy a lot and a lot of the players I go against are 
 hardly fair to go against. They're addicted to being cheap I guess. But anyway, I love the fighting! 
 I would have enjoyed more if the story mode and character roster were longer, but it's only the 
 first game in the series. Goku, Bardock, and Vegeta are extremely fun to play with! Although some 
 characters like Recoome and Nappa are pretty slow. Well, that's my opinion of this wonderful step 
 forward for DBZ. So, I'll see you next year Dimps! KAMEHAMEHA! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gta-codlover
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 15, 2008 8:11 pm PT
Review:  for those of you that have played this game and have beaten it or rented it or if you never played 
 and want to this GAME IS SHORT! like really short as soon as u finish one saga it seems and feels 
 like u beaten all of them at the same time it is WAY too short hopefuly this game gets a downloadable 
 patch so you can play the rest of the sagas!? i mean come on guys who doesnt want to be a ss4 (super 
 sayian 4) and fight people online when they dont know if u beat the game and when they are lets 
 say goku an he can only turn super sayian and you are vegeta and you have a ss4 up your seleve 
 i would love that im sure you guys would too! 
  
  bottom line --
  
  this game is good but if ur a soul cab fan you should just wait 
  DONT buy this game unless your 
 a huge fan or you just want too
  just rent this to try it out! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xchaosx97
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 15, 2008 7:07 pm PT
Review:  This game is a extremely fun game. As the first DBZ game to hit the next gen consoles, it's surprisingly 
 fun. The controls are easy to get used to, and battles are fast paced. The new drama piece system 
 introduces a bit of variety into the game, although i prefer not to use it. The only flaw i see 
 at all in this game is the fact that they recycle battle scenes for almost the whole story. However, 
 this game definately is a must buy and has huge replay value. Online play is another great feature 
 in this game and it really doesn't lag much so long as you play with people in the same country 
 as you. Also, i think player matches are more suitable than ranked matches when playing online 
 since its much more relaxed and you don't see much "vegeta spammers." (You'll know what i mean 
 when you play) . overall, this game is a great start for the next gen DBZ games and i recommend 
 it to all players including non-DBZ fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dylanius
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 15, 2008 4:26 pm PT
Review:  Initially, I wasn't sure if I wanted to but BL, seeing as how it's getting a real "you love it 
 or you hate it" feel out here. I took a risk and bought it and I don't regret it- it's definitely 
 similar to DB Budokai 3 with just a few changes.
  
  Graphics: The characters in BL are wonderfully rendered. It's getting harder and harder to tell 
 the difference between the anime and the actual gameplay- Auras look especially cool. However, 
 the cut scenes are indeed a little lackluster and the blasts are also not quite as pyrotechnical 
 as what might be expected or desired. Ultimate attacks should be just that- ultimate. That's not 
 to say these are little firecrackers- the kamehameha is still a sight to behold. 
  
  Sound: It's true- the English audio doesn't really synch with the cutscenes. The soundtrack is 
 interesting to say the least, however. It goes from rock/metal to jazzy to funky. The English and 
 Japanese voices both sound great, even if they're misaligned. 
  
  Gameplay: The developers have approached the fighting genre slightly differently than the other 
 games. This isn't an unusual simulator like Tenkaichi, it's a traditional fighter like the straight 
 Budokai series. Combos are still different combinations of X and Y (XXY, XXXXY, YYYYY etc) and 
 your various beams are simply a direction and B. Most of the dodges are pretty simple, simply tap 
 A to dodge or A and a direction to teleport- a copy of B3's system. However what makes BL's system 
 different from B3 is that the developers seem to have focused on all-out speed fighting. They've 
 removed all sorts of long charge-ups which makes fights much faster but also removes some of that 
 classic feeling of "3 million hours to power up" the show seems to have all over the place. The 
 only 'minigames' BL has is button mashing to overpower your opponent in the various power struggles- 
 there are no more cheese-tastic rock-paper-scissors Dragon Rushes to be found. However, instead 
 of those, there are little cutscenes that happen when certain conditions are met. For instance: 
 perhaps Freeza's health drops into the red and so suddenly the game shifts to a little movie of 
 Freeza roaring and powering up. When the game resumes, Freeza may now have a defense buff and a 
 small health recharge. While these moments seem to come right out of the show and make the game 
 feel that much more authentic. Sadly, these seem to slow down the action more than charging your 
 chi or watching as Broly blows up half the earth with his ultimate blast. Some of the little cutscenes 
 are very lacking (Gohan watches in horror as Freeza makes nasty grunts and groans as he transforms, 
 then we cut to see Freeza second form standing up) - but that's just a small flaw. 
  
  The roster IS very small but everyone plays quite differently. However, the different forms (freeza, 
 cell, goku etc) don't differ too drastically in terms of movesets. 
  
  
  Replayability: Unless fighting games are completely alien to you, you'll probably have no trouble 
 conquering this game at all. Unless you're a perfectionist and want all the achievements, you'll 
 probably be "contentedly finished" with BL (meaning all characters unlocked with most of the Drama 
 Pieces) in a solid 6-8 hours. It seems the developers wanted the players to focus much more on 
 playing online rather than playing through a story. While on paper this looks like a good idea, 
 multiplayer is rampant with players spamming a single attack, or in ranked games players disconnecting 
 just before a loss. 
  
  Final Word: If you're willing to overlook the short length and tiny flaws (mismatched audio, lack 
 of ultimate- attacks) , and find a way to beat the cheeses online, you'll thoroughly enjoy this 
 game! 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dmoney2587
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 15, 2008 3:18 pm PT
Review:  1st off, im sure most people are familiar with DBZ, so Burst Limit is right up the alley for newcomers 
 and vets. Okay so here is where they differ, the game only offers 3 sagas (saiyan, frieza, cell) 
 and these are probably the most famous ones. For people who havent played the game or played it 
 very little, they could get into this series, learning about how each saga connects to 1 another 
 and how the z fighters get stronger from saga to saga, along with there enemies. The training and 
 trial- (survial, time attack, battle point) mode, lets newcomers polish their craft. Now for the 
 veterans this a disappointing because, previous titles has had all sagas or close to along with 
 all the characters to match. In DBZ: BL, thats not the case. Fanboys will be letdown cause it feels 
 like a u played a rerun of the same game/tv show/movie. Besides that. The fighting is solid, a 
 lil better than budokai series. Everything is really well balanced, but the drama cards interupts 
 they game so often thats its hard to feel the in the moment when fighting. Online saves this game 
 cause kicking somebody's ass (especially random people) with a guy with gold stiff hair, makes 
 u smile, evil like. Overall, this is a good game to have, (my final verdict for people who dont 
 read my review. i choose to say if the game is (5) A MUST BUY, (4) GOOD BUY/BUYABALE, (3) RENT IT, 
 (2) BORROW IT, (1) AVOID THE HEADACHE) 
  This game is BUYABLE, thats i why i give it a 7/10! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ruff_edgz
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 15, 2008 12:01 pm PT
Review:  There is a long list of Dragon Ball Z games out there dating back to the NES days (only Japanese 
 releases but still) and I will have to say that moving Dragon Ball to a pure fighting game was 
 the best choice for this franchise. The series is based on fighting to save the world, why not 
 keep it that way for the game.
  
  If you are a fan of the series or not, Dragon Ball Z: Burst Limit will keep you entertained with 
 its flashy moves, combos, teleporting dodges and just all around fighting styles from 21 different 
 fighters. If you want to get the game for the story line, fans of the series will not be disappointed 
 as it follows a lot from the original series but doesn't go into much detail. For the non-Dragon 
 Ball Z enthusiasts, the story shouldn't deter you away from trying out this fighter as it's a solid 
 fighting game on it's own.
  
  Dragon Ball Z: Burst Limit gives you a standard list of options to choose from right at the beginning 
 of the screen. The Z-Chronicles is the area which will unlock lockable features in the game as 
 well as give you a small story line about the franchise that has been around since it's induction 
 in 1989 as a TV anime. Versus Mode is a must for any fighting game so you can play against a computer, 
 another local opponent or play online via XBL. Trails Mode are used to give the fighting gamer 
 a chance to prove to others around the world how good they are with speed, points or just surviving 
 100 matches in a row. Training Mode is a wonderful aspect to the game as it gives you the run down 
 of basic, intermediate and advanced moves for the game. This is the first place to go for any person 
 playing the game to fully understand ones potential of mastering this game. Options Mode helps 
 you set up the game so your controls, sounds and any other basic option is handled with care.
 
  
  The gameplay for the fighting is fast pace but the button combos aren't that complicated. This 
 combination makes it fairly enjoyable as the fighting becomes less button mashing and more skill 
 and quickness of pressing the buttons. Also while playing, there are 'drama pieces' that can cut 
 in during certain situations during the fight. Each 'drama piece' will help the character that 
 was activated for or hurt the opponent. The cut scenes are sometimes really quick but can last 
 for a few more seconds then it should. After the cut-scene is done, the fighting starts right up 
 as far away as they were before the cut scene happened. So get ready during the cut scene to think 
 of a quick strategy before it's over. Fatigue is also a factor which can paralyze your character 
 to give you opponent a chance to do some more combos or finish you off with a Ultimate Move.
  
  The sounds of the game are similar to the rest of the anime series as you can listen to the 
 characters in Japanese or English voices. All of them sound exactly like their TV series so the 
 fans of the Dragon Ball Z show will be pleased. As much as people don't like the English version 
 that much, if you ever watched the show on Cartoon Network, you might remember the good times watching 
 the show late at night or early in the morning on Sunday. The downfall to the voices are when characters 
 talk and don't matching either the Japanese or English voices for the game. The blasts, hits and 
 movements are all nicely done and also just make the game that much better.
  
  To other fighting games out there, it isn't any different with what it brings to the table. Good 
 fighting combinations, nice cut-scenes (when needed) and of course, making the fighting element 
 just out of this world. If you are a fan of the anime and/or gaming franchise, I would recommend 
 getting this game and anyone who wishes to learn more about Dragon Ball Z, try this game first 
 before playing anything else. You won't be disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nova856
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 15, 2008 10:30 am PT
Review:  Dragon Ball Z Burst Limit improves the old budokai system in different and unique way that works 
 mostly well. One huge factor is the drama pieces. They keep the matches interesting and surprizing, 
 just like the anime. They are a well deserved edition the DBZ games, beside a few flaws ( like 
 how Cell's energy field can start a drama of deflecing a ki blast?)
  Burst Limit also keep all the editions and powers that shinbudokai had that made it so much fun. 
 The grapics is the greatest improvement for that game as it really captues the feel of the anime. 
 I never played BT3 for the Wii so I don't know how good the online is there, but I thing Burst 
 Limit did a fine job with the online despite the lag the pops up in some matches. Burst Limit is 
 a whole new type of spinoff for the DBZ games and it does a great job of keeping the fans they 
 had for years and still give alot for ppl who never watch DBZ. 
  The amount of characters is the biggest dissopointment in the game, not because they didn't add 
 the buu saga, that can be forgiven, but for the fact that they didn't add all the fighters in the 
 sagas that they use. Does Zarbon ring a bell? There were a few potential fighters that they could 
 of add in the game without adding another saga. 
  Overall, Burst Limit is a pleasing game to both long time fans and newcomers alike. Burst Limit 
 leaves alot to expect for a secong coming so hopefully it will be worth it. In the meantime, Burst 
 Limit is good game to kill some time! :D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ADJ209
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jun 15, 2008 7:31 am PT
Review:  As beautiful as combat looks, this game isnt all its cracked up to be.
  The controls are complicated and most do the same thing, you wouldnt have as much 'freedom' , the 
 storytelling seems a bit half arsed and there are barely any moves as opposed to Soul calibur, 
 Tekken, Virtual fighter. And the visuals finally they might appear as the most appealing factor 
 and despite this game has been created in a 'cartoony context' i believe that there a huge room 
 for improvement graphics-wise especially in terms of character detail and enviroments... To make 
 this a much better game they need more moves, better graphics, possibly some decent cutscenes and 
 better sound
  
  Overall this game has been very disappointing, if you are looking for a game loyal to the franchise 
 and in the slightest bit more satisfying buy tenkaichi 1 on PS2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: peeweeshift
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 15, 2008 6:57 am PT
Review:  Graphics
  When I saw this game on display in previews I was amazed just like the Gamespot staff. The game 
 looked stunning. The levels and characters look dare I say better than the show. The details on 
 characters faces and the way they show emotion in the show are all reflected here. It looks quite 
 good but when you see all the fighting going on and characters getting sent smashing in to the 
 ground you expect the holes to still be there visible after the animation. Destruction was shown 
 in the show many times and only a few select attacks change the battlefield (Vegeta's Big Bang attack) .
 
  8.5/10
  
  Sound
  The sound quality as a dbz package is almost perfect. The voice acting is spot-on with the original 
 dbz cast portraying their roles once again. There are some minor lip-sync problems but that is 
 nothing much to bash against such great sound quality. However some of the dialog is really lame. 
 It's actually worse than the cartoon in some ways but at least all the yelling is there
  9.0/10
  
  Gameplay
  The gameplay is really slow paced in comparison to the older games like 
 Budokai and Tenkaichi. There is lag online but you can still avoid attacks because of the slow 
 paced nature. That might have been why they did this but a fast paced DBZ is what fans want. They 
 did a good job balancing the characters fairly well but some of them stand out as being really 
 overpowered, Gohan and Vegeta are some of the easiest to win with. They could have made it more 
 balanced in the vs mode and more of the fiction-based realism in story mode. Another thing to note 
 is the drama pieces. They look really good and some have some great dialog, however this does not 
 spread to all of them. You get them for triggering certain things in battle. An example would be 
 if you are about to do a big beam attack and the dram piece cuts in and they dodge it. And a aid 
 piece would bring your partner character to either taunt your opponent or damge them slightly to 
 prevent them from hurting you. The problem with all this is they get repetitive quickly because 
 a lot of them are similar and sound the same. On top of that they cut the gameplay up too much. 
 They should have added a a lot less and focused on making them top quality, or just cutting out 
 the boring ones already in. But the worst thing was putting it in vs mode. By far that was the 
 stupidest thing to do. The battles are already slow paced enough in burst limit and adding that 
 in made it all the worse.
  6/10
  
  Story
  They follow the story's main big battles with a few minor ones. You'd think there would be more 
 minor ones after playing the fight with the seibamen but sadly there isn't much more. The story 
 isn't really there because they expect that the people playing it know it and are playing it for 
 the game. I don't mind this but they should have still added in more of the minor battles. I wanted 
 to own choutsu with nappa and face gohan as piccolo or vice versa when they were training for the 
 arrival of vegeta. That would have been awesome but alas they skipped it. Extra intros would have 
 been good to. 6/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lance159753
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 14, 2008 11:22 am PT
Review:  First I would like all of you people to stop with these bad comments of this game. This game doesn't 
 have as many characters as Dragon Ball Tenkaichi 3. Sadly there are only 21 characters. Although 
 that doesn't mean you shouldn't get this game. Every character is special, I know all of you who 
 own Tenkaichi remember that almost every character that isn't important in the story had lame attacks 
 like that energy wave or the attack when they shoot a million huge Ki Blasts. That was a huge downfall 
 in that game. It seemed the attacks were rushed. In this game every character is special, they 
 all have attacks that were actually in the show. Every character is unique, they have there own 
 fighting style. Who cares about the amount of stages? Whats wrong with 5 stages? Are you going 
 to stop fighting to look for some lazy rocks on the ground? At least there are stages. Although 
 there is one major problem in this game, you cant charge you Ki. Seriously! I loved watching Vegeta 
 go AHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHH! And all that Ki flowing around him, so what? Your Ki comes back normally, 
 which is kind of stupid. Another problem is Ki attacks doesn't take KI. You can blast a million 
 Ka Me Ha Me Ha's but ill just teleport behind you and blow you away, so don't try spamming me lol! 
 Now the graphics I must admit are blurry, but your in battle man you think theres not ganna be 
 blasts shooting every? Sand flying around? Wind Gusting tornadoes? Now the story, this was another 
 major reason there was bad criticizing. Whats wrong with going up to Cell Saga? The story is still 
 in detail right? Yes the game seems really rushed but it still is good. I mean i beat the story 
 in one sit but you can go trough the levels in different difficulty's! Are you nub still learning 
 to play Dragon Ball Z? Or are u an expert, a pro, a novice, a semi-pro, a loser? A Major loser ( 
 Very Easy Mode) You can spend a billion years with this game because of online play! And no there 
 isn't much lag. Your Ka Me Ha Me Ha isn't going to freeze. Only Problem is nubs leave right after 
 they are about to lose, or after I own them with my Vegeta. This game is the best in the series. 
 I love it. i hope this Review was helpful and i hope this review changed your opinion of the game. 
 I give it a 9/10 Although its not that great deserve a 10/10! If you can pass the few flaws, this 
 will be a very enjoyable game. Thanks For Reading! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blueguykisame
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 14, 2008 3:04 pm PT
Review:  This game lacked the characters and story of Budokai Tenkiachi 2 and 3, but the fantastic graphics 
 that truly do blur the line between the animation of the video game and the anime barely make up 
 for the lack of story and characters. Since the game lacks different in-battle goals, and all the 
 characters and meaty story of tenkiachi 2 and 3, I give it an 8 out of 10. This game is a game 
 that, unless you are a true fan or want to fight more of your friends in the future without re-renting 
 it, I recomend renting. Though I bought it, this game was also definately on the short side. I'd 
 like to see the rest of the story and characters, along with more in-battle goals and multiplayer 
 fighting modes such as tag team, 2 players vs. 2 players, and 5 fighters v. 5 fighters. Hopefully 
 their next game will make the line of animation difference between the anime and the game truly 
 disappear. My expectations for the sequal are high.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: XileLord
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 14, 2008 2:48 am PT
Review:  When atari decided to develop this game they had a vision and that vision was Dragonball Z on next 
 generation consoles built from the ground up. Let me first off say this game could have been better 
 if more time and effort was put into it. It feels slightly rushed and lets face it, the graphics 
 on the character models are good but the environments could be better. The story mode is a huge 
 let down, its like they decided to skip out on the cut scenes that actually tell you whats happening 
 and play them after you beat each saga. So for example instead of raditz showing up at master roshies 
 island wanting to fight goku the game starts with goku just randomly fighting raditz in some random 
 open field without an explanation on why hes fighting him and then at the end of the sayian saga 
 they play that same old song they use in the trailer and you get to watch raditz appear and take 
 gohan away but ONLY after you finish the sayian saga. So basically to the average player who doesn't 
 know crap about dragonball z all they are really going to find is random guys with super powers 
 beating eachother up for some unknown reason.
  
  There were many many chances for more characters to be added to. They decide to put recoome and 
 captain ginyu in but leave out the rest of the ginyu force because i guess the developers were 
 to lazy to add in some more story line and characters. They leave out trunks killing freiza, Android 
 18 and 19, future gohan and a few other characters that should have been added but i just cant 
 think of at this moment and on top of that they taunt us with SSJ2 goku which we don't even GET 
 to play. Not to mention half the costumes in story mode are not available to multi player.
  
  I mean i wont complain about the lack of the buu saga but come on atari stop being lazy you 
 guys are losing loads of money for a reason and its because of your lazy developers who sit around 
 all day and slack off. However besides all the flaws the game has its actually quite a deep down 
 good fighting game that should be played by anybody who likes fighters. The multi player is smooth 
 and balanced if you have enough skill to fight off spammers, the fighting is fun and really sharp 
 looking and the game itself is worth it if you can look past the story modes (Z chronicals) flaws. 
 
  
  In the end its a really good buy for any dragonball Z fan that want some fun competitive online 
 action and a quick but never the less FUN run through of the dragonball z story again.
  
  + Combat is fun 
  + Multiplayer is smooth and competitive
  + Z Chronicles is great if your 
 a dbz fan who wants a quick run through of the story
  
  - Feels slightly rushed
  - Environments could have been better
  ? Where the hell is tournament mode and why taunt us with 
 SSJ2 goku if we cant use it? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Saaugelinks
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 14, 2008 1:50 am PT
Review:  I have to admit that I am a little disappointed with Dragon Ball Z: Burst Limit. Around the Dragon 
 Ball Z Budokai Tenkaichi 3 came out for the Wii I was already tired of the yearly Dragon Ball Z 
 game. When I heard this was coming out I wasn't excited, even though it was the first DBZ game 
 announced to be in HD. That changed when the demo became available on the marketplace. After I 
 played that I knew I was going to purchase the full game. After completing the story mode, I have 
 to say I feel a little let down. It feels like this is the beginning of a new trilogy of DBZ games 
 and other than game play looking good I just do not see that big of an improvement from Budokai 
 3. I can forgive the lack of characters, it is just a shame the specials don't look all that great 
 other than a few. Drama pieces are all right, though they are nothing too exciting. The story is 
 the same, just the series being retold again for the... I don't even know how many times now. Playing 
 against people over Xbox Live is sort of a drag as well. Whenever I was able to find a match it 
 would lag really bad. In the end, I did enjoy my time with the game, mostly when I played local 
 multilayer with my friend. Hopefully they will make a whole lot of improvements with Burst Limit 
 2, otherwise I may just sit the next few out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vashkey
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 17, 2008 9:01 pm PT
Review:  It's that time of the year again. Atari has released it's big DBZ game of the year and Im sure 
 alot of fans are wondering if this one is the one worth your time and hard earned cash, well read 
 on and find out.
  
  If you've ever played Dimps' classic Dragon Ball Z Budokai 3 on the PS2 or the Shin Budokais on 
 the PSP you'll likely feel right at home in Burst Limit. Largely because it's a fusion of the two 
 with additional tweaks and upgrades. With that said you can expect some fast paced action that'll 
 keep you on your toes while you teleport, throw energy beams and dodge flurry of punches. To those 
 who are new, don't feel intimidated by all the fire works here, the game is very accesible and 
 the tutorial provided in the game will be more than enough to put you on a good start and the training 
 with further your progress in picking on how the battle system works. Beyond the basics from Budokai 
 Dimps has thrown in a drama piece system. Drama pieces are special abilities that are activated 
 when/if certain actions happen. For example you can set a drama piece that will block a teleport 
 attack or a senzu bean drama piece that will have one of your buddies throw you a sensu bean if 
 your health happens to get to low. Don't worry, these drama pieces only activate once in a battle, 
 so you wont have to worry about bag of senzu bean impeding your efforts of defeating your opponent 
 or anything. Their a nice addition although they can interrupt the flow of battle (their activation 
 is represented by a short cut scene that typically lasts about three seconds) and it's kinda annoying 
 that you are unable to skip these cut scenes. Other mentionable changes is that you no longer charge 
 your power. it refills on it's own at a steady pace. So this prevents some situations where player 
 stops fighting sit there charging while getting pummeled. Some fans might be a little dissapointed... 
 Personally I thought charging was cool, but over all it's a reasonable tweak.
  
  Bust Limit is a superb looking game. It captures the look and feel of the series perfectly and 
 it looks WAY better than cartoon series it's based off of. Characters have unique and imation and 
 the whole game is full of rich vibrant colors. My only complaint is that the environments are very 
 bland. Not that they look bad or anything, it's just that nothing is going on. And it would have 
 really helped if the enviroment were interactive in some way. I mean at the very least they could 
 planes flying in the background or people running around panicking or somthing. Over all though 
 the game looks fantastic.
  
  This is probably the best Dragon Ball game so far when it comes to audio. The game provides both 
 the english japanese voice casts. We have an entirely new sound track for this game which is really 
 good. the best sound track we've gotten out of the series since the original Budokai (until that 
 sound track became ridiculously over used) . Theres also an freakin awsome rocking theme song and 
 for the first time Atari kept the original vocals. 
  
  Unfortunatly Dragon Ball Z burst Limit may not deliver enough raw content to please everyone. The 
 single player story mode lasts only about three to four hours. I can't really see much reason to 
 complain though since most fighter with longer story modes seem to drag. It's worth saying that 
 the story has some awsome cut scenes that capture escense of the series perfectly although it really 
 feels some what stripped down. The story is content with just deliver snippets instead of going 
 into depth leaving anyone who didnt watch most of the series confused as to what the hell is going 
 on. While the story mode is pretty sure, if you want the most out of it you can try beating the 
 story on normal with all chapters Z ranked (DBZ's equivalent of an A) for the achievements, collect 
 all the drama pieces andbeating it on the higher difficulties. The rest of the single player content 
 is in the challenge mode. There are three types of challeneges you can partake in. One where you 
 can fight your way through one hundred enemies, one where you fight enemies under a time limit 
 and one where you try and get as many points as you can while fighting your way through tten enemies. 
 They add a bit more replayablility although you really don't get anything out of completing these 
 challenges other than achievements. The average player will likely not bother much with these modes, 
 but they certainly don't hurt the package. Then theres of course the multiplayer mode.... And Dimps 
 didn't get to creative here. It's all bassically the vs mode. Theres local multiplayer and theres 
 online. Online has ranked and player matches. The multiplayer is acceptable although it would have 
 been nice if they had added more than the regular 1 vs 1 affair. The multiplayer provides a little 
 over twenty playable characters which is great by fighting games standards, but some of the series 
 fans will likely be a little dissapointed as DBZ games typically have more characters. And five 
 stages really isn't much no matter how you slice it. In the end it'll be the love of the game that 
 keeps you coming, not the modes.
  
  So is Dragon Ball Z Burst Limit the best Dragon Ball game ever... Not quite. But the online multiplayer 
 and the pretty graphics should be enough for fans to pick this game up and X-box affienados will 
 likely get the most out of this since this would be the best DBZ they've ever played. People looking 
 for a fun fighting games would likely enjoy this although I'd suggest a rent before you decide. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: enobe777gk
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 13, 2008 10:27 pm PT
Review:  this is in no way, one of those reviews that just give the game a crappy rating bc of something 
 stupid, actually, i wont be giving this game a crappy rating at all.
  
  forewarning... somewhat a long review... ive much of nothing else to do tonight.... but yeah
 
  
  now on with it..
  
  Graphics - amazing. like takin the anime, revamping and enhancing the graphics, and turnin it into 
 HD.
  aura - wise, they should have kept something like in budokai 3, the way those auras flared was 
 pretty sweet, better than any other aura ive seen.
  
  Sound - the sound was good, it was just occasionally, i saw areas that could have been done better, 
 like nappa... just watch him in some of the scenes he's in. his mouth moves, but words come either 
 before or after (im pretty sure it was just one of them, i just dont remember) . the sound effects 
 did a good job of emphasising how hard you punched your battle buddy's gut through his back. and 
 the soundtrack set a good mood too.
  
  Gameplay - alrighty.... juicy time...
  
  when i started playing, i played story mode, you know, against computers n whatnot. i thought the 
 game was amazing. i was super excited to go online to see how fun that would be. come to find out, 
 playin online showed a lot of flaws.
  
  ki use and ki management, what should have, and what should have not been....
  -powering up should 
 have remained
  -death moves and ki blasts should drain the ki meter
  -everyone should have the same amount of ki bars
  -the ki meter filling itself up should only 
 have filled the first few bars like in the budokais, the rest would have to be gained by landing 
 blows or powering up... or gettin slapped around by a warping kick masta
  -that ki using invincible block needs to go, either that, or a bigger consequence needs to be added 
 for using it. and it seems like it can block... EVERYTHING....
  hm... and i could swear, that once you transform... you stay that way
  
  
  the whole ki system 
 is all screwed up. i went online to play against ppl and the first fight i got into, it felt like 
 i was fighting a noob... second fight... another noob... and so on. trust me i dont suck.
  
  everyone did the same thing
  
  start of fight, slap you away
  shot a death move at you
 
  constant ki blasts until ki meter filled
  then 1 of 2 choices
  1. either went aura spark and shot the ultimate move at you 
  2. or went aura spark and (suggesting 
 you were in mid air) would warp behind you, smack you, start the button smash sequence
  
  repeat
  
  its all they did. lag didnt help too much either... this type of game play with only 
 2 punches thrown really just killed online play for me. i was in for my achievements then i was 
 out.
  
  
  but other than the whole issue with the Ki
  
  the gameplay, incredible. they gave you a junior version of "hyper mode" from B3, "Aura burst" 
 from shinbudokai and a bunch of other stuff was thrown into this...
  
  honestly though, idk about anyone else... but capsules... capsules made me continue playing the 
 game. they kept replay value in the game bc you had something to aim for. the drama clip things 
 were an ok add on. its just sometimes, they'd get in the way...
  
  for insance...
  
  battle time...
  doin business...
  unleash an ultimate attack, but before it hits
  DRAMA SCENE... 
 then afterwards
  no boom...
  and no ki...
  
  the drama clips could have been better timed, or at least activated by command or somethin like 
 with the select button when a certain situation is met instead of just randomly.
  
  and two words... tournament mode?
  
  did anyone see one? i didnt... idk if i looked hard enough 
 but for sure it wasnt there.
  
  As far as the story goes...
  i think they could have went a little bit more detailed into the story. like uh.. a bit more characters 
 ahem-COOLER hack hack-JEICE... sneeze-CELL JR.... yeah. some of the story cutscenes just seemed 
 a bit... uhh... just not solid enough... idk if thats what im trying to say. but like... the scenes 
 just seem kinda repetative. and it was usually only the 2 characters fighitng that were in the 
 scene. a few more battles per saga could have been added in too. like piccolo and gero, goku vs 
 19 and vegeta vs 19. the story just kinda was like a big sum up. 
  
  
  ... yeah i know... it seems like i bashed the game a lot... i kinda did. but i still like it. dont 
 get me wrong the game is amazing... idk... it may be the fact that im a die hard dbz fan too... 
 eh... idk... just watch those online noobs...
  
  but yea... im gonna play ninja gaiden 2 now...
  
  you want my review on that??? 
  ok.. every 
 godly positive word you can think of will describe that game...
  an 11.0 outta 10. im outie
  
  
  jaegan64 is the xbox live name... add if you like...
  
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: BLACK_ROSE_WAR
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 13, 2008 6:42 pm PT
Review:  Ok, if you hate, DBZ, I don't Care, then why are you here in the first place right? so lets get 
 started, Burst Limit is just like the first Budokai game on Roids, everything is bigger and better, 
 but it also comes with the flaw to the original, Small Character selection... I mean it will get 
 bigger.... But for now, we will have to put up with it, at least Brolly is already in this one 
 :)
  
  Ok so like I said, Just like Budokai, the first one! It's a side view, thank god! Not that there 
 was anything wrong with the other approach, but Combat had become Blan in my opinion... Anywho, 
 BL's HD is one strong point, it looks like the Anime when you play... Plus it comes with a DVD 
 of the first 7 episodes (Yay) , and thats cool, well not really, if you think about it? but Whatever... 
 Give it a shot!
  
  
  Oh I have yet to try Online, so, If what Game spot says is true, then it's not very good or something, 
 but you should still give it a try! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Prasath1993
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 13, 2008 3:47 pm PT
Review:  All right a new dragon ball z game can't wait to get it, it looks good even though it got a 7.5 
 rating I would give it 9 !. Lot of my friends first saw it in a magazine and said can't wait to 
 get it. Now I see why they want to get it. I think it's the best one yet, finally they put it for 
 next generation consoles. I heard that the game one down side to it, it has little amount of characters 
 to play with. But it is all good since it has good graphics and they bought back the classic style 
 of fighting. I don't know critics rated this game to have a 7.5, but with this rating it still 
 beat GTA IV which has a perfect 10. Well that is confusing I have GTA IV. I would have said that 
 they should have gotten a tie for first place. Well thanks for reading my review. Hope read some 
 of other reviews on other games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: UniQ
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jun 13, 2008 3:36 pm PT
Review:  I had high expectations on this game, finally a dragonball game for the next gen, also I haven't 
 played the tenchikai games but I heard that they weren't that good. Well my wish was a game like 
 budokai with a cool storymode were you can choose alot of different characters and spend hours 
 to find every hidden part, but sadly no..........
  
  Burst Limit is a disappointment and not even close to the Budokai games. I played all 3 of them 
 and loved the whole time. One of the main reason was the story mode. I played the story mod on 
 the third game at least 5 times over to find all the secrets and skills. In this I have played 
 the story mode once and I see no reason to do it again. You can finish all of the story and "bonus" 
 stories in one go. The only reason would be to get drama pieces, special scenes that unlocks when 
 you do certain things true to the series and I can't se that as something I want to waste my time 
 on.
  The story is also very short, well it includes alot of fights, a lot of weird fights just too prolong 
 the game and it nearly becomes tedious. The game ends with the cell saga, and have the bonus stories. 
 The story mode is fixed, you can't choose different characters taht have different stories, at 
 most you can choose to skip or not to skip some scenes but that happens like 2-3 times in the story.
 
  The short story means that you don't have many transformations, also the one existing just seems 
 to change your skills, not like in Budokai were you became stronger and all. This is of course 
 to open up for one or two sequels but I hate it
  
  Also everyone remembers the tournament mode from Budokai and I loved it, it was fun and challenging 
 but this have none of that, just a versus mode.
  Other than that there is no kind of skillshop like in Budokai, every character that is static for 
 the most of the time, the only thing that you can choose is the ultimate move, there is 2 or 3 
 for every character. Now you may think, "Oh that must be something you must unlock in some hard 
 way" but no, just play the story mode and you will soon have them all.
  
  The one good thing with this game is how it looks. Nothing else, my tip is to wait for the third 
 game that will surely arrive at some time. This you will play the storymode and then put it away 
 after playing som versus because the story has no replay value at all.
  
  
  Yes I am making a lot of references to the Budokai games but I think most people can agree with 
 me that they are the best DB games out yet. Actully I can't see a future with this game if they 
 don't change many part of the games.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: BlOoDyDeAtH360
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 15, 2008 1:23 pm PT
Review:  First off, the graphics of this game are amazing, cel shaded graphics work so well with next gen 
 consoles in my opnion, and this game isnt anything short of amazing. When you first start the game 
 out, you start with 3 difficulties unlocked, Very Easy, Easy, and Normal. as you progress through 
 the game, you unlock the other 2 difficulties which are, Hard, and Very Hard. When you first start 
 out there are only 3 playable characters, Goku, Piccolo, and Krillin. After those 3, as you progress 
 through Z Chronicles mode (story mode) you unlock the additional characters:
  
  Kid Gohan
  Teen Gohan
  Tien
  Yamcha
  Raditz
  Saibamen
  Nappa
  Vegeta
  Captain Ginyu
 
  Recoome
  Freiza
  Trunks
  Android #16
  Android #17
  Android #18
  Cell
  Broly
  Bardock
  
  There is a total of 21 characters, some of which have transformations (when you 
 unlock the transformations in Z Chronicles mode, the game will tell you after the battle what all 
 was unlocked) All of which are obtainable just by playing Z Chronicles mode, nothing out of the 
 way you need to do to do unlock all the characters in the game.
  
  And incase you diddnt notice, the game is missing quite a few characters, but they make up for 
 it with the individually of each character so it balances out.
  
  Another good tidbit of information to know is that you can choose to play the game with Japanese 
 or English Voice Over's, and they got both, the original cast that did the anime to do the Voice 
 Over's for the game for both, the japanese and english voice acting, so its not just a bunch of 
 people they screened to get the parts, its the same people that did the anime.
  
  
  The game also features a good number of Drama pieces that can help you out in fights. If your being 
 attacked and you have a protect drama piece selected, then you can get saved from taking the full 
 blow of the attack, and other good things like that.
  
  The game only covers the Saiayn Saga, Freiza Saga, and Cell Saga's, so if you like Dragon Ball 
 Z, you already know thats not many saga's that are in the game, But it just leaves room for Burst 
 Limit 2 to finish of Dragon Ball Z.
  
  The game also has alot of gaps, so if your not a Dragon Ball Z fan, at times you may get lost asking 
 yourself "why did this happen?" Luckily, after the Freiza and Cell saga's they somewhat get you 
 up to speed. The show scene's from the begenning of Dragon Ball Z up to when you defeated Freiza 
 after the Freiza saga and once you beat the Cell saga, it show's cut scene's leading up from after 
 Freiza's Saga to the defeat of Cell, so you'll be caught up to speed a little bit, just for me 
 personally Z Chronicles felt somewhat empty, beacuse they skip the Garlic Jr, and Trunks saga, 
 Which in the Trunks saga alot of stuff happens that you wont know does unless you watch the show, 
 which in my opnion should of been explained in the game by having those chapters playable.
  
  It basically boils down to this:
  
  If you like playing games for the single player, you'll 
 be dispointed with how easy it is, unless your one of the people who like to beat games on each 
 difficulty.
  
  If your a fan of Dragon Ball Z, then i say buy this game. Its a really good Dragon Ball Z game 
 and should be in any Dragon Ball Z fan's game collection.
  
  If you like fighting games, you may like this one, so try it out.
  
  If you like playing fighting 
 games online, rent this and try it out and see if you like it.
  
  I give this game a solid 8 because while it is lacking some stuff, i still found it to be a very 
 enjoyable experience and in my opnion was worth my $60.
  
  So if your not a fan of Dragon Ball Z, then please do yourself a favor and rent the game to try 
 it out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vegeta0623
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 13, 2008 6:47 am PT
Review:  The Burst Limit's frist try nailed the fighting but missed the online play do to lag. but it's 
 still fun to play people from all over the world and dimps did do a great job on the fighting it 
 self. but it lacks in gameplay interest and what i mean by that is. there is nothing in between 
 the fights. it's just fight after fight with no play inbetween! dimps basicly just super-sized 
 shin-budokai but what they should have done is super-sized budokai 3 and made a interactive story 
 and put some RPG elements in so it feels like your doing something other then just opening the 
 story which we already know and love. so to all the people at Dimps take a good long hard look 
 at what you did with budokai 3 and inproove on that which was clearlly your best work ever!!!!!!!!! 
 so i hope that Burst Limit 2 is far better and more like what you did with budokai 3!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: highflyer800
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 13, 2008 6:15 am PT
Review:  My relationship with Dragonball games has been a very mixed one. Some I loved and some i hated. 
 This is kind of in the middle. For the msot part its still keeps DBZ feel which I guess you could 
 say is really all it needs to do. On the other hand you wonder if they been a little lazy as well.
 
  
  Burst Limit takes dragonball back to Budokai routes, This is pretty much that kind of game. If 
 you played dragonball game before then you may already know what to expect. Its simple controls 
 with some powerful beam attacks and that has always and may always be the case. Its also has a 
 few more harder mode of diffculty which is also a nice change so you may not always be running 
 rings around the dude your smacking. There also the modes you expect story, vs, practice , ect. 
 The finally big thing you see is the Drama pieces. 
  
  These add the talking parts and such of dbz and also give bonus like increase in somthing or even 
 health increase. Some are kind of long and most get boring after a few times of seeing them but 
 the bets thing is when they chat with each other. You might get two people you u never expect like 
 if your Goku and you have Raditzas a drama Piece, he will shout at you saying somthing like you 
 suck goku, or need a hand and goku will say somthing like shut up. This does'nt work for all char 
 thought.
  
  The graphics are pretty nice but a lot of is just all flash, at the end of the day thought thats 
 what dbz has always been about. pretty attack ect. I mean there not ground breaking but they do 
 look nice. One thing I really like is some of the in game moments, Take the fight in story made 
 betweebngoku and Nappa. They put the famous Its over 9000!!! part in they and its pretty much just 
 as funny watching it on there as in the anime. 
  
  The sound is kinda of ok. The intro song is one of the best yet but its the voice acting that really 
 let it down. A lot of it just sounds really poor and hollow but some of it sounds really good to. 
 
  
  I think what let the game down most more then anything is its lack of content compared to the other 
 games. I'm not talking about adding 400 char or so but it would of been nice to a see a few more 
 people in the game like cooler ect. But they even miss out the Cell Jr which paly a pretty big 
 role in the Cell Games. I would of loved to of see them add just a bit more but i guess they saving 
 that stuff for the 2rd game which kind of sucks but hey. But they is a good number of char and 
 such in the end. They was really 1 what if story in brust limit Involing Bardock but it has been 
 by the bar the best What If I've seen yet which was nice.
  
  Brust Limit won't be for everyone but thats ok cause its not made for everyone. Its there for Dbz 
 fans and for people wanting to know more about the show. I still recommend even if you are'nt a 
 fan to at least try it. It may not be best game they put out but its by far not the worst either. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Devil303_basic
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 12, 2008 11:31 pm PT
Review:  For the first Xbox 360 DBZ game and for as much hype that was centered on the game, I found myself 
 very disappointed. 
  
  The story mode of the game ends right after the Cell Saga pretty much. You get the Broly and Bardock 
 storylines after the Cell Saga is over. This pretty much cut the whole TV series nearly in half. 
 Leaving out everything with Buu and the Martial Arts Tournaments was very disappointing for me. 
 When you first start playing story mode you can only pick between three levels of difficulty, Very 
 Easy, Easy or Normal. To unlock the other three levels of difficulty you much beat the game. If 
 I would have known the game ends after the Cell Saga, I would not have spent $60 on it. I possibly 
 would have picked up the game once it gets its priced dropped to $30.
  
  The drama card system which adds dialogue/events from the TV series into the fights is good for 
 fan boys but not for somebody looking for a fast-paced fighting game. Even for fan boys near the 
 end of story mode it gets a little irritating. It is a win-lose system also. Sometimes a cut scene 
 will occur in the middle of your attacks and will cut it off. On the other hand the same thing 
 will happen to the opponent.
  
  This game is much slower-paced then the Playstation DBZ games. Also it has many less choices of 
 characters to play and battle. There is no "rushing" to your opponent if you are separated. You 
 have to slowly fly back to him/her. To do the rush attacks you must send your opponent flying and 
 quickly hit a button to rush after him/her. Also there is no powering up. Once you use your Ki 
 you have to wait for it to regenerate. There are some drama cards that can increase its regeneration 
 rate. Partial cut scenes will play for the Ultimate attacks and transformations which is no different 
 than the Playstation DBZ games.
  
  This game does have a few perks though. The graphics and audio are excellent. All the character's 
 voices are correct and the game looks great. Also the ability to transform mid-fight is very nice 
 compared to the Playstation DBZ games where you had to pick which transformation of the character 
 you wanted pre-battle.
  
  The controls are easy to learn and get used to. Once you get near the end of the game you will 
 have no problem knowing how to control your fighter.
  
  Online mode is lacking as well. Aside from being quite laggy to where only the Host of a match 
 can win, there is only two type of battle to pick. Ranked and un-ranked would be those two. Inside 
 a match you can pick time, the number of rounds, and whether or not you want drama cards. Also 
 you can set handicaps. Once you pick a character you have to pick which Ultimate attack you want 
 to use which you must unlock in the story mode. If you didn't unlock one for the character you 
 picked you can't use one. Either that or a regular special attack will be used there instead. If 
 you win a ranked match you will get points which will add to your gamertag's "Power Level." If 
 you lose of course you lose "Power Level." I have no idea if you get anything at certain "Power 
 Levels" or not.
  
  All in all this game was decent. I would definitely not pay $60 for it. This is more of a game 
 to rent or to buy used for $30. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bardock138
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 12, 2008 1:48 pm PT
Review:  I've played a lot of DBZ games, and I mean lot. This is by far the best. 
  
  The story mode ranges from the Saiyan Saga to the Cell Saga, which leaves room for better sequels 
 to be made.
  
  Pros - 
  Online Play: This is probably this games major selling point. The online CAN be laggy if you play 
 someone from out of your own country but if you play some one near by it's like they're sitting 
 right next to you. You can play ranked or unranked matches, against friends or you can use the 
 games matchmaking feature, which hopefully is made a little better in future updates.
  
  Diversity of Characters: Because there are only 21 characters there are extremely diverse and everyone 
 plays different and have their pros and cons.
  
  Trial Mode: I haven't really had the chance to play this yet, but from what I've seen there's different 
 trial modes and each one gives you a different objective... Try to kill 100 enemies without dying, 
 kill a certain amount of enemies before the time runs out, etc etc.
  
  
  Cons:
  Story Mode Confusion: If you're not familiar with the series or the plot of the show at all, this 
 story mode will most likely confuse the hell out of you. It doesn't explain anything well at all. 
 It just kind of jumps around fight to fight without any real explanation. But oh well, no one gets 
 a fighting game for the story mode... It's all about the multiplayer XD
  
  No World Tournament: I'm really dissapointed that they didn't include a world tournament mode in 
 this game. It was my favorite feature is most of the other games and I always enjoyed having a 
 couple friends over and just playing a huge tournament together.
  
  
  
  Overall this game is fantastic for any DBZ fan. Even if you don't know what DBZ is you'll still 
 enjoy the simple, yet deep, fighting mechanics. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maaly81
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 12, 2008 8:41 am PT
Review:  For the most part, the around 2-21/2 hours I have spent so far on this game has been interesting. 
 I like how you go through the Z chronicles to unlock characters and such, and the way they do the 
 cut screening and everything. I had not bought a DBZ game since budokai on Ps2 way back when. I 
 didnt really like that game because of controls and it seemed like it did not have any flow to 
 it. This burst limit though has a good flow too it. Its not really a straight up button masher, 
 and you need to really pay attention to what the character you are fighting is doing, so you can 
 pull of a counter or a nice multi hit combo. I like it and recommend this game to anyone who want 
 that next gen DBZ experience. The only other gripe I have is similar to others that I have read. 
 Amount of characters, and the buu saga not being in the game. Would have loved to play as gotenks 
 and super buu, but I guess they are saving those characters for future titles. But another plus 
 is the free tee shirt and episodes of DBZ that came with the game. Other than the missing saga 
 and characters, a must have in you next gen collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darkchris64
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 31, 2008 1:02 am PT
Review:  This game is everything i hoped for and more. Its graphics are amazing and provide truly epic battles. 
 The controls are quite easy and move execution is also easy. Whether it's a bad thing or not that 
 your energy for super attacks is essentially infinite is up to you. For those who don't know the 
 ki regenerates on its own now and super attacks don't use ki but ultimate attacks do. In addition 
 to all of that the options for replay ability are the main campaign, the trial mode area and the 
 VS mode which is online now . This Dragon Ball Z game is second only to Dragon ball Z Budokai 3. 
 
  
  It's like this (look below)
  
  Dragon Ball Z Budokai 1 = bad Budokai 2 = better budokai 3 = really good
  The series got better 
 ratings each time up to 8.4
  
  Tenkaichi on the other hand starting at 7.0 and got worse from there
  
  I believe the burst 
 limit series will get better each time.
  
  (As long as the developers do their job well) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ucanimurself
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jun 11, 2008 10:46 pm PT
Review:  I have to admit, this game deserves the hype. The visuals are great and the fighting is incredible. 
 Characters actually have different attack patterns and for the most part different moves. The gameplay 
 is fun because the reenact the fast paced fight scenes revealed throughout the series. This game 
 is also pretty cool because it is on widescreen, which enhances the whole theatrical aspect. As 
 the gamer is watching and playing they feel as if they are apart of the series. I thought that 
 was a nice touch to this game. 
  
  Online: 
  
  As we online does not always do us justice. Most of the time the connection is determined how far 
 the guest is to the host. A couple of guests I had were pretty laggy and I literally was moving 
 slower than them when I was host and I know it was not my connection because it showed me how bad 
 there connection was, which was nice. 
  
  Drama Sequences:
  
  These either hurt you are help you. Basically, during battle you will see icons below your health 
 bar indicating what type of Drama Sequence you will receive. For instance, if you have a heart 
 box that means that Drama Sequence will be for health. I have just found it annoying at times because 
 you really don't know when your Drama Sequence will ever happen. If there is a way I need to look 
 over the tutorial because I must have skipped it. 
  
  Characters: 
  
  Yes, there are not a lot of characters but then again who ever said they were not going to put 
 any as Downloadable Content? A lot of the extra characters were useless anyway in all the other 
 dragonball z games. I own pretty much every DBZ game released in the U. S. except for the one on 
 PSP. My brother played it and said this game resembles it quite a bit. But I know I played as Trunks, 
 Piccolo, and Vegeta. So when I got Tenkaichi 3 it was pretty much a waste. 
  
  Overall, I do suggest buying this game, even if you are not a DBZ fan. I think the audience fighting 
 games will really enjoy this Dragonball Z game to their collection. I say read more reviews and 
 see what you think.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nightprolwer
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jun 11, 2008 10:13 pm PT
Review:  I have played many of the dragon ball Z games, being a huge fan of dragonball, dragonball Z, and 
 Dragonball GT, I am very disappointed in the lack of characters in this game. The graphics are 
 great, the game play is very well done, but going from over 150 different characters and character 
 versions, to 21 I find lacking. The Dragonball, Z, and GT sagas have been in the games since dragonball 
 Boduki 2, then all of a sudden in this one the stopped. I hoping for some downloadable sagas and 
 characters, but I doubt they will be released. For those of you that haven't seen any of the dragonball 
 series this is still a great game, just not up to par at all with the previous games. Some have 
 had interesting game modes, tournament modes where you can win money or "zen", and some have had 
 story modes where u actually fly around, and collect the dragonballs. Burst Limit has no free roam, 
 no dragonballs to collect, no tournament besides survival mode which you can't do without a good 
 amount of time to kill. For me the lack of characters was a HUGE fault, I think it makes it boring. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: T-nosh
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 11, 2008 9:34 pm PT
Review:  A great game but could have gone father in the story. For an anime that has ended there is no posibble 
 reason for the story mode to be cut in half. The fighting combos are too basic, and dont really 
 like the KI system. The graphics and movie sences are off the chain but the usage of same moves 
 in most of them are pretty sad since everyone did the same thing through out the entier story line. 
 Love the versus mode begining with the little action in the start thats a great add. Mainly lack 
 of characters and moves is what makes the game too simple. Other than that it a pretty good and 
 fun game. Lets hope there is another that gives us everything that we fans want and know about 
 DBZ. I also think alot more people should be added if there is another part to this game. I mean 
 everyone that actually participated in a fight during the cartoon series. And they should also 
 better the controlling so that there can be more combos and alil more free flight because there 
 were hardly any. The only way you could have really got in the air was by an opponent and thats 
 not to cool. They also should place back in the charging of you Ki. The game felt weared not having 
 to charge and it felt like all the characters were like androids from previous DBZ games. And do 
 give them all their movies not those limited ones that we got. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DBZ180
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 11, 2008 9:10 pm PT
Review:  DBZ Burst Limit is the newest entry in the long line of DragonBallZ games, is also the first DBZ 
 game for the next gen consoles. The story mode (Z Chronicles) begins at the beginning of the Saiyan 
 Saga and ends at the Cell Saga, the cutscene animations in the game are pretty cool and are awesome 
 to watch. It's almost as if you are actually watching the show. The games Multiplayer is fun, is 
 fun to play someone in the same room or evan someone across the world in Xbox Live. The graphics 
 in DBZ BL look great, and are scell shaded. The control layout in the game is easy to master and 
 to get used to. Is an easy to pick up and play game. Also, the soundtrack put in the game fits 
 in greatly, fits in with all the action and fighting in the game.
  
  OVERALL:10/10 DragonBallZ Burst Limit is a great new fighter for the 360, the storyline is awesome 
 and is fun to play. The multiplayer is a blast. The graphics and visuals look awesome. And the 
 controls are easy. All in all the game is a great game for a long time veteran of DBZ, or someone 
 just looking for a cool new anime fighting game for the Xbox360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: javo10227
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jun 11, 2008 8:06 pm PT
Review:  not good, game. 6.5. i'm one of the BIGGEST fans of dbz and it hurts me to see dbz in hands of 
 atari. I mean budokai was pretty good, but this crap don't even get close to budokai 3. First of 
 all the freaking music doesn't go along with DBZ, I think thats the biggest reason u don't get 
 inmersed into that game. they should use the original japanase music, the american version of DBZ 
 is nothing but crap. Also the "ultimate" moves dont look that amazing this time around like in 
 previous games, and explosions don't leave holes in the ground either. If they "really want to 
 please the fans they should make a GOOD game wortjy of the DBZ title, they should have instead 
 just added online to budokai 3 instead of ripping us of with this crap. the only good thing are 
 the character models, but other than that. this game is mediocre and instead of taking the series 
 forward it sends it way back. i wish i could slap the producers of this series and tell them that 
 the real good reaon DBZ is what it is because of the japanese and spanish versions!!! american 
 producers ruined it with all that retarded music and editing they did to the series. I just hope 
 they dont kill it with the upcoming DBZ live movie and make it just another trashie summer movie. 
 stupid atari!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sasuke1002
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 11, 2008 1:40 pm PT
Review:  DBZ Burst Limit captures the true essence of Dragon Ball Z with great visuals, character rosters, 
 and fighting. But that dosent stop the fights to be boring nearing the end of the freiza saga. 
 It feels as if you are doing the same thing over and over again. You kind of just beat the crap 
 out of someone, then move on to the next battle and do the exact same thing! I would not recommend 
 playing this for over 3 hours a day. Otherwise you might get bored of it. The music track is okay, 
 but the new characters fighting and visuals are what made me give this game 5 extra points. There 
 is a great character roster even though the other budokai and tenkaichi games had more. Most of 
 those extra characters in tenkaichi sucked anyway, so thats not a problem. In DBZ Burst Limit you 
 can now choose other characters as partners! While in multiplayer you can choose anyone youve unlocked 
 to support you in battle, and customize them to your liking. The only thing that is bad about this 
 feature is that it gets EXTREMLEY repetitive. The graphics are great, which enriches the gameplay 
 and makes the game WAY more fun to play., and they managed to capture the anime feel to the game 
 just right. There are plenty of new fighting moves and attacks to use too. Online is fairly clean 
 when i play, but you may have some trouble with a below average connection. All and all, Dragon 
 Ball Z: Burst Limit is a fun, and exciting game, with lots more potential if a few more characters 
 and fighting techniques were added 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FlawlessSeasons
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 11, 2008 8:55 am PT
Review:  Lets get one thing out of the way, Dragon Ball Z was my entire childhood, I loved that show. Recently 
 I've rekindled my love for it, because quite honestly, it was pretty bad ass. So with the convenient 
 timing, I gave Burst Limit a spin to see how it was.
  
  I'm a big 3D fighting game fan, and I've made a point to play all those I could on the 360 due 
 to it being a small genre. Now, Burst Limit is a good game but it doesn't deliver itself as well 
 as other games in the genre like your Dead or Alives, Virtua Fighters, and Soul Caliburs. I don't 
 know if I'm just not used to the type of game this is, but while playing the fighting seems a bit 
 clunky. Unlike other fighters, it just doesn't feel like you're delivering a fluid beating to your 
 opponent. The separate combos are fluid enough, but while chaining them together it just feels 
 like there is too much nothing in between attacks. This is obviously a very obscure complaint that 
 only huge fans of the genre will find I believe. If you're more of a casual fighting game fan or 
 just a DBZ fan, I doubt this will bother you.
  
  A really good thing that Burst Limit does is emulate the source material really well. The whole 
 look of the game is just fantastic. There is something about Akira Toriyama's character designs 
 that just let them adapt to 3D so well. The cell shading does a great job at keeping the games 
 look true to the manga and anime. It's a breath of fresh air to see a nice colorful game instead 
 of the standard brown of this generation. 
  
  One thing that game doesn't do well emulating is the english voice acting. Alone it's just fine 
 being they got the originals to voice the characters, but when switching between characters speaking, 
 theres just too much time in between and the cut scenes just seem very awkwardly edited with the 
 pauses. Luckily, the game also has the original japanese voice actors as well and it doesn't seem 
 as awkward with the japanese turned on.
  
  Another negative that I found was the general lack of characters. Sure you have the main characters 
 from the Sayin, Freeza, and Cell saga, but compared to other games, the roster is just pitiful. 
 Some of the characters available in Burst Limit are just pointless, Saibaimen? Why would I want 
 to play as them? Why? There are only 21 characters (not counting Super Sayin, Freeza, or Cell transformations) 
 which is pitiful compared to Budokai Tenkaichi 3 which had 161. Yes, Tankaiichi 3 spanned not only 
 DBZ but Dragon Ball and Dragon Ball GT as well. 
  
  Another problem I have with the game is just that, it doesn't even span the complete DBZ story 
 line. There is no Garlic Jr. (I would of let that one slide anyways) or Buu saga. Why they decided 
 just to stop at Cell is beyond me. Yeah they need to save stuff for sequels, but Atari is doing 
 so poorly they should of just delivered as much as they could. I find it stupid that I have to 
 be stuck playing with Saibaimen when I could of been playing with characters like Gotenks and Super 
 Sayin 3 if they simply would of included the Buu saga in the game. 
  
  Another big feature of the game is online, which if is going to be featured in a fighter IT NEEDS 
 TO BE BALANCED. There is no question about that at all. And the sad thing is that it really isn't 
 sometimes. There are spamable attacks that just come to commonly and can just ruin games. Yes in 
 other games there are spamable attacks like Ryu Hayabusa's back flip / spear attack which most 
 players did online in DoA4, but even then it is easily counterable leaving it balanced. Stuff like 
 Vegeta's big bang attack one after another just ruins matches completely. Oh... and its laggy sometimes
 
  
  Overall, it's a good game. I'm being generous due to it getting the look right and it's core mechanics 
 being well executed. It is hard to recommend it for a buy even to the most hardcore of DBZ fans 
 due to its lack of characters and over all stripped feeling. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Deathwillcome
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 11, 2008 3:23 am PT
Review:  The game, in itself, is very well designed; it is a great step into the next gen systems.
  
  Advantages:
  - Great and easy to use controls
  - Superb graphics. You actually feel like 
 your watching the DBZ show.
  - Voice acting taken directly from the shows.
  - Great multiplayer system. I truly recommend unlocking most of the drama pieces. Drama pieces 
 are events that are unlock throughout the Z Chronicles. Some of them can give you great advantages 
 in the games battles. Personally, this game is awesome if you have a friend around to play with 
 you since it's the multiplayer that stands out in this game.
  
  Disadvantages:
  - Lacks a bit in voice acting skills at some point, especially since some of the acting can get 
 annoying.
  - Although the Z Chronicles are very fun to play with (short in normal difficulty but very long 
 in the very hard difficulty) , if you don't know the show you can get definitely loss while following 
 this story line.
  - Compared to its predecessors, there are a few less characters but still a decent amount to make 
 the multiplayer fun and entertaining.
  - Controls are the same for every character. Although I state this as a disadvantage, in a way, 
 I see it more like a neutral part of the game since this permits the user to play with as any players 
 he wants without really having concerns about the controls.
  - The game lags if you happen to play with people oversees. So I didn't play a lot online yet due 
 to this.
  
  Tips while playing:
  - When doing moves, use the D-pad if you are good enough. The D-pad permits much easier completion 
 of the moves. Therefore just switch your finger between the left stick and the D-pad.
  - Although I haven't played much online yet. Limit your matches to people local to you. For example, 
 I'm Canadian; hence I'll limit my play with Americans and Canadians.
  - There can be spammers with every or at least most of the characters in this game. Learn teleportation, 
 ultimate guard and dodge and you should be able to resist a bit more. A good thing is not to button 
 smash. Let your character do his move. If you button smash, you're character will just end up in 
 a serious of punches and kicks which then prevents you to either teleport, dodge or guard some 
 of the spamming moves.
  
  Conclusion:
  Great game and great graphics. You'll have definitely a lot of fun playing this and even though 
 some people are complaining that the story line is too short, its not. They just haven't played 
 in very hard difficulty yet. Its not a must buy but definitely a must try.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: a1max
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 10, 2008 9:03 pm PT
Review:  This is the first DBZ game for the next gen console, and is a great game to quite an extent...... 
 The Graphics are quite brilliant and the gameplay is very fast fun and satisfying....
  
  The Graphics
  Goku and his crew never looked better, and this is the first DBZ game to get the 
 SAIBAMEN RIGHT..... the graphics are fantastic, Lighting effects are good, 
  The environments look very bland sometimes, and there are shortage of stages to fight..... for 
 the most part graphics is quite fantastic, it captures the anime feel perfectly
  9/10
  
  The Gameplay
  The game is fun fast and easy to learn, you can get a fair time playing the Z chronicles, 
 versus mode and survival and time attack modes, the game moves at a very fast pace, combos are 
 very satisfying to pull off.... there are always some CHEAP moves u can abuse..... it is a very 
 stylish game.... the aerial combat is fun but the fighters feel as if they are standing in the 
 air rather than flying.... just a few minutes in the tutorial and you will feel right at home..... 
 this is a game with more style than substance
  The replay value of the game is quite low, the number of characters you unlock is far too less 
 for a dbz game, and they are way too easy to unlock, but u have to play it again and again to unlock 
 all drama pieces.... 
  there's a quite a long story mode... and great fun to be had, the shortage of sagas will make some 
 DBZ fans disappointed but it is good enough for the first entry
  7.5/10
  
  The sound
  the soundtrack is very good, and english acting isn't really up to the mark,
  for the most part, 
 sound effects during battles is quite satisfying, the english acting feels as if they didn't want 
 to say the same old lines again and again
  7/10
  
  Overall
  this is a very good game, fun exciting and visually impressive, DBZ fans would love the new look 
 of the game, replay value is slightly on the low side because of shortage of unlockable characters, 
 and there are only three sagas..... I would recommend this for all DBZ fans and also to people 
 who like a good fight.... though this does not have depth like A Virtua fighter, it is fun.... 
 and the fun is multiplied playing with a friend or multiplayer, 
  and a great entry to next gen for DBZ... things can only go better from here...
  8.0/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zoldaire
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jun 10, 2008 12:51 am PT
Review:  The previous Dragonball Z games were awesome. You had lots of characters from all of the sagas 
 and the special moves were same as they were in the game. However, in DBZ Burst Limit, you are 
 reduced to playing only into the Cell Saga, and the characters are HIGHLY limited. I mean, where 
 the heck are the main guys from Freiza Saga? You only get 3 guys from the whole Freiza Saga and 
 those are Recoome, Captain Ginyu and Freiza himself. What happened to the rest of the Ginyu force 
 and Freizas personal bodyguards? Not to mention they skipped Garlic Junior Saga all together and 
 in the end, you only get 23 characters, and some of the characters aren't even that good. You do 
 get 2 movie characters, which is actually very few considering that in time of the Cell Games Saga, 
 there were about 6 or 7 movies made. The special moves are well done and the graphics are beautiful, 
 but that doesn't mean it's a great game. It misses so much of the original DBZ style and a LOT 
 of the characters that were available in the previous games. don't mind it being only able to go 
 to Cell Games Saga, but seriously, atleast add all the characters up to that point. 23 characters 
 from the all of the sagas till Cell Games is really low. Anyone who was seen the series or played 
 the last Budokai Tenkaichi knows that there are TONS of more characters available in that timeline.
 
  
  In the end, Burst Limit to me was a disappointment. The AI in normal or lower always decides to 
 block, whatever you do and when you up the challenge a little to Hard or Very Hard, you are very 
 likely to get your ass kicked in the first 30 seconds and in the Z difficulty, you don't even stand 
 a chance against the computer. Rent it, don't buy it. Not worth spending 70$ on. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: benbonney
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 5, 2008 2:44 pm PT
Review:  Ok let me first say that this is a fighting game and follows that formula, so dnt be expecting 
 an epic story mode. This game has had a lot of bad hype with "lack of characters and stages" but 
 might i say that the characters are a lot more unique now that they dont all handle the same and 
 even though there are few stages they come in different froms such as cells ring then cells ring 
 destroyed. 
  The game engine is very similar to budokai 3, in that the way special moves work and your character 
 moves about, but now you have small tweaks such as your character doesnt un-transform when they 
 run out of Ki or that all characters every multiple movesets but this is just generally different 
 special moves. The game also has drama scenes which activate when certain criteria is met such 
 picollo standing in frnt of a blast for gohan if hes about to take a nasty hit and this does add 
 some more fun online.
  The online is a little bit slower but i have noticed that it does prevent people from just button 
 bashing. Also your Ki recharges by itself and you cannot fast charge it so people wont just be 
 using constant special moves which puts more proper fighting into the game.
  The only thing i find this game lacks is an arcade mode, which is a bit of a shame as the story 
 mode will only last about 6 hours on a hard difficulty for budokai veterans.
  but overall id highly recommend this for any dbz fan 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
