-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Dynasty Warriors: Gundam
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/xbox360/action/gundammusou/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 A ton of different mobile suits and characters make appearances.
 A few flashy visual effects during combat.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 One-note gameplay, and it's a boring note.
 Irritating voice acting and incomprehensible storylines.
 Camera can be a pain.
 Repetitive missions.
 Ugly environments.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Aug 30, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 5
Critic Score: 5.8, 36 Review (s)
User Score: 7.4, 658 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Namco Bandai Games America
Developer: Omega Force
Genre: Beat-'Em-Up
Date: Aug 28, 2007
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Dynasty Warriors: Gundam takes the worst elements of both franchises, and smashes them together 
 into a dismally vapid action game. 

  Dynasty Warriors: Gundam is every bit as half-hearted a game as its unimaginative title suggests. 
 This mash-up of franchises is ultimately little more than a lame cash-grab, an excuse to put two 
 fairly popular brand names -- Koei's Dynasty Warriors beat-em-up series that lets you play as ancient 
 Chinese warlords fighting hordes of enemy soldiers, and Gundam, a long-running Japanese anime and 
 toy line that stars giant mechs and the space jockeys that pilot them -- on a box and extract dump 
 trucks full of cash in the process. In Japan it clearly worked, since the game hung out atop the 
 country's sales charts for a good long time. Now Dynasty Warriors: Gundam has hit North America; 
 thus, a whole new audience can experience its limp, repetitive action, its insufferable characters 
 and storylines, and its unflinching dedication to mediocrity.  

  As much as Dynasty Warriors: Gundam seems like it ought to be aimed squarely at the audiences of 
 both franchises, in reality, the scale tilts toward the hardcore Gundam fan. The game draws several 
 of its storylines from a wide variety of Gundam animes and pretty much expects you to know who 
 all these characters are, as well as what's going on, without even a hint of explanation. If you 
 don't already know a whole bunch about the Universal Century timeline, Elpeo Puru's relationship 
 with Judau Ashita, or what the significance of some guy repeatedly calling himself the "King of 
 Hearts" is, turn around and run screaming away from Dynasty Warriors: Gundam because this game 
 is not for you.  

           That sound you hear when playing Dynasty Warriors: Gundam, the pesky noise in the back 
 of your head that sounds a bit like jingling change mixed with giddy laughter, is the sound of 
 Namco-Bandai and Koei swimming in piles of money.      

  On the flipside, anyone who is nuts for the various Gundam anime series will probably cackle with 
 glee at all the crazy suits, characters and stories tossed into this game. Even some non-Gundam 
 fans might be able to just ignore the barely coherent storylines and grating voice work (thankfully, 
 you can turn the Japanese language track on, which makes the storylines only slightly more incomprehensible 
 than they are in English) simply for the promise of being able to take control of a giant mobile 
 suit to wreck a gaggle of enemy Gundams. However, regardless of which camp you fall into, once 
 you actually get your hands on the controls and bust through a few missions, that promise is quickly 
 broken.  

  Save for the swapping of ancient warriors for future warriors, this might as well be any of the 
 dozen or so previous Dynasty Warriors sequels from the past several years. Combat is practically 
 untouched, except now, every playable character can fire guns. Too bad they're worthless. Guns 
 almost never seem to hit anything or do significant enough damage even when powered up over time. 
 Beyond that, you're left to mash on the same two attack buttons over and over again against hordes 
 of mostly ineffectual enemies, periodically tossing in a special attack. Though none of the playable 
 characters play identically to one another, the combat is similar enough among all of them that 
 you pretty much end up with the same boring experience time and time again.  

  Mission objectives don't help. They rarely extend far beyond the scope of beating up everyone in 
 an area, beating up a specific enemy, rescuing a friend from getting beat up, or getting from one 
 part of the map to the other in a set amount of time while beating up enemies along the way. Combat 
 is a bit flashier visually than any of the previous Dynasty Warriors games, specifically the effects 
 that fly from the various guns and swords of each mobile suit. But the character models aren't 
 remarkably detailed, and the battle arenas are the same sort of barren, poorly textured wastelands 
 as in all the previous Dynasty Warriors games. The one wrinkle is that periodically you find yourself 
 battling in space, but the space levels are even more pathetic, as all you do in them is float 
 around on a flat plane while some ships sit still in the background. Without much visual pizzazz 
 to make up for the painfully simplistic combat, it doesn't take long for the proceedings to get 
 old.  

  In fact, the only thing that makes Dynasty Warriors: Gundam's combat even remotely challenging 
 is a slightly busted camera. It's basically OK on standard battlegrounds, but the second you get 
 into any area with walls or a ceiling, or you find yourself up against a boss enemy, it becomes 
 nearly impossible to keep track of where the enemy you're fighting is relative to you. Mobile suits 
 can dart around a fair bit, so it's easy to lose track even without the camera screwing up on you. 
 But when you couple that fact with the camera constantly snapping to a position that is least advantageous 
 to you in a fight, you'll end up a bit flustered.  

  It's sad that the combat is so dull because if nothing else, Dynasty Warriors: Gundam does offer 
 a good chunk of content. Granted, a lot of it is the same content over and over again, at least 
 in terms of gameplay. But there are 16 different playable characters spread across the official 
 mode (which is based on existing Gundam storylines) and the original mode (which is a collection 
 of new storylines built around notable characters from the series) , each with several missions 
 apiece. There is also multiplayer to consider. You and a friend can play cooperatively through 
 both the official and original modes. Though for the game to be over, it only takes one of you 
 to die, and there's really no reason to subject someone you like to this sort of perpetual boredom. 
 There's also a versus mode, where you and a friend can either fight against one another directly 
 or compete to clear an area of enemies the fastest. Shockingly, this isn't much fun either.  

 
           Yep, that's some goooooood dialogue.      

  As you play through the official and original modes, you have the ability to gain new skills or 
 parts for your mobile suits. These parts make you significantly stronger as the game goes on, improving 
 your armor, your melee attacks, your shooting skills, and adding some new abilities to your special 
 attacks. Almost none of it matters, mind you. All you really need to do is get as many melee attack 
 upgrades as you can, and you'll be an unstoppable force. And on top of that, the amount of play 
 time you'll have to log to get all those upgrades is far too high for any average person's psyche 
 to bear. No one should have to trudge through that much monotony.  

  The best thing you can really say about Dynasty Warriors: Gundam is that it's not broken. Apart 
 from the camera, nothing strikes as busted or unfinished; it's just a supremely uninspired game. 
 You could measure out the amount of thought that went into this game design inside a thimble: Take 
 Gundams, put them in the existing Dynasty Warriors game engine, and call it a day. This game is 
 content to leave every ounce of Dynasty Warriors' stale gameplay intact and just swap out the aesthetics. 
 That isn't enough to make this game fun. Not nearly enough.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (33 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: FF_fan2004
Rating: 5.5
Date: Feb 20, 2009 3:23 pm PT
Review:  This game initially on normal mode started out as reasonable until you go one-on-one with "Ace 
 Pilots" when it really takes the biscuit. 
  I'm a Gundam fan, I enjoyed going through Official mode as you sort of fight in a character's perspective 
 and it's story sort of based off its anime. However the difficulty was horrendous, the sad part 
 is that it's on normal. It got worse when I decided to play it on easy. And still no noticable 
 improvement on trying to complete a mission when the bosses still act like complete cheap !
  The camera angles are absolutely terrible, the AIs are annoying, collecting items and obtaining 
 character abilities are frustratingly monotonous. And yet, I still kept on playing. Why? Because 
 of the achievements! As a student, I'm more grateful that there's no on-line multiplayer achievements 
 as I can't afford to spend for Xbox Live. That and also for the lack of internet connection. (I'm 
 not footing 60 quid for a wireless adapter!)
  The Original mode story plots are unbearably, stupidly lame with horribly unfair mission objectives 
 (e. g. if one of your Ace dies then it's Game Over) that on some stages could not be completed without 
 my friend to help me out and even he found the game absolutely terrible. The controls are not up 
 to scratch and getting what seems to be the near impossible achievements makes the game into a 
 no-brainer, monotonous, droning of constant destruction which should be compared to sending scraps 
 to the conveyor belt straight to a furnace. 
  Both my friend and I could have spent better time trying to achieve Gears of War completion on 
 hardcore or doing our dissertations than trying to achieve 1000 points on this game and still not 
 even been able to! And even Prince of Persia took a tiny fraction of time to get 1000 points! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sandrock1000
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 26, 2008 10:11 pm PT
Review:  This is a OK dynasty warrior game but more important its not made for all gundam fans. There are 
 a lot of gundams and mobile suits to choose from, from a lot of different gundam shows but only 
 two from Gundam Wing and two From G Gundam. If U are like me and grew up watching these 2 shows 
 then this game isn't for you. I was tempted 2 trade it in when i found out i couldn't be deathscythe 
 or sandrock but in the end there is nothing like using a gundam 2 destroy hundreds of mobile suits 
 at a time. Even though fans of these two shows will be very disappointed any who calls themselves 
 true gundam fan needs to pick this up, especially if you are a fan of mobile suit Gundam, Zeta 
 Gundam or Gundam ZZ because for some reason they put an insane amount of mobile suits from these 
 three shows in the game. (Mobile suits even fans wont care about) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JazzTrombone07
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 21, 2008 9:52 am PT
Review:  (Ok, as this is my first review on GS it may not be up to par with other reviews so bear with me)
 
  
  As you know, Gamespot gave Dynasty Warriors: Gundam a 5.0. They give reasons such as repetitive 
 gameplay, ugly environments, storyline issues, irritating voice acting, and camera issues.
  
  First off, I'd like to address the story line and the voice acting. As a hardcore Gundam fan 
 (mainly Gundam Wing and Mobile Suit Zeta Gundam) , official mode makes perfect sense because it 
 is based on the Mobile Suit Gundam and Mobile Suit Zeta Gundam series. Some characters take you 
 through just the MS Zeta story, while others such as Char go through both. For a fan of the Gundam 
 series (who knows what is going on) this is just like being a part of the show. However, I can 
 see that the story line in official mode could be confusing to players who do not have any background 
 knowledge on those series.
  
  As far as my thoughts on the story in original mode, it was a bit confusing at first, but the more 
 characters you play as in the story, the more everything fits in place, albeit it is a weak story. 
 I like it though, because it is the sole place where you can play as Heero (in Wing Zero) , and 
 Milliardo Peacecraft, and Domon Kashu, and Master Asia, and other alternate-universe Gundam series 
 (Gundam Wing, G Gundam, etc.) .
  
  Gamespot also touched on the irritating voice acting. Personally, I was impressed that they brought 
 back *ALL* of the voice-actors for the English versions of the Gundam shows to play their characters 
 in the game. *THAT* is impressive, because it really shows at least some committment to their fans 
 and it really makes the game a whole lot better for Gundam fans.
  
  I've talked about the storylines and the voice acting. Now let's talk about gameplay and replay 
 value. Yes ---the gameplay is repetitive. But it's a hack-and-slash, which for the Gundam series 
 this is a perfect fit. In lots of the epic battles in the Gundam series, the Gundam pilots are 
 battling through tons of enemies, and run into a few, stronger enemies. Thus, the game does a very 
 good job of giving players the feel like they are a part of the Gundam universe, as they play as 
 Kamille or Char or Heero or Haman Karn.
  
  And what about replay value? There is plenty of it, at least for Gundam fans. Let me be the first 
 to tell you ---this game has a ton of unlockable characters, each with their own unique Gundam (s) /Mobile 
 Suits (s) , and each whose story plays out at least a little differently. And it's has achievements 
 such as collecting all of the parts for a specific Gundam or skills, which takes a while and requires 
 replays through a specific character's story. Plus, by playing through the game with different 
 characters, you get to see the bigger picture in the storylines, as well as play as your favorite 
 character. My favorite character is Heero, from Gundam wing. I have played through his story at 
 least twice now to unlock skills and parts to get achievements, but I don't get tired of playing 
 as Heero.
  
  One thing I don't understand is the negativity about the camera. You have full control over where 
 the camera is while you're fighting and so it's not even an issue. And as far as the environments 
 are concerned, yes ---they are a bit dull but that's not enough to make the game bad.
  
  So, overall this game is worth more than the 5.0 that GS gave it. While this game is not for everybody, 
 this game does appeal to it's fanbase very well and so fans of the Gundam series will enjoy this 
 game. I am personally giving it a score of 8.0.
  
  The Good: -Makes player feel like they are in the Gundam universe. -Just enough difficulty to make 
 it fun. -Tons of unlockable characters and skills and MS parts. -Original voice actors have returned 
 to portray their characters.
  
  The Bad: -Repetitive gameplay. -Dull environments. -Doesn't appeal to everyone. -Confusing storylines 
 if not a fan of the series.
  
  
  
  Thank you for taking the time to read my review of Dynasty Warriors: Gundam.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: zgreenwell
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 19, 2008 10:00 am PT
Review:  DW: Gundam is pretty much explained in its entirety in the title. It is a Dynasty Warriors game 
 that replaces the typical characters with Mobile Suit Pilots. This actually works out quite well 
 especially for Gundam Fans, but it makes the entire Dynasty Warrirors setup a little more believable.
 
  
  The game has two main campaign modes. The Official mode follows the story of the anime series. 
 There are characters from the original Mobile Suit Gundam, Zeta Gundam, and Double Zeta series. 
 For people who aren't familiar with specific characters this does a decent job of introducing them 
 while providing some challenging missions. The other campaign mode, Original more, has a new story 
 and includes all the characters from official mode and adds more characters from Gundam Wing and 
 G Gundam series. The story is centered around an asteroid falling into earth, but despite the effort 
 the story really doesn't matter. While these missions can create a lot of interesting mash ups 
 for fans, people who are unfamiliar with Gundam will probably miss the significance. The stages 
 are still fun and there are a lot of them, but with the repetitive nature of the game, most players 
 will get bored before completing all the missions.
  
  There are some options for 2 players. Any campaign can be player through with two people. There 
 is also a VS mode for some competitive local multiplayer. The co-op campaign adds a lot of fun, 
 but the camera can take a couple minutes to get used to. The Vs mode is probably going to be ignored 
 by most people, but its actually a lot of fun too.
  
  The gameplay is pretty simple. Most of the action centers around killing tons of enemies using 
 simple button combos. Each stage has fields you must capture and usually several Bosses. As you 
 progress you will gain experience for your pilot and your Mobile Suit. You will also gain parts 
 and skills that you can use to customize your characters' abilities. These are most useful when 
 someone is playing a 2nd player. In single player, by time you have power up your character considerably, 
 you're already at the end of their missions.
  
  Visually the game does alright. It has a steady framerate even with the screen packed with enemies 
 and two people playing. Some of the backgrounds seem bland, but the Mobile Suits all look good 
 and their attacks are all animated well. The cut-scenes are passable, but not astounding.
  
  Audio in the game is about the same. The soundtrack is not particularly notable, but they're 
 not distracting either. Most of the voice acting is true to the English voices on the anime. The 
 dialog I found to be enjoyable, but sometimes the characters can get annoying in battle as they 
 will say the same three sentences over and over.
  
  What it comes down to is a game that is fun to play and more fun if you're a Gundam fan. In fact 
 if you really enjoy the characters I would recommend just buying this game. There is about 50 hours 
 of gameplay to be had. If you're not a Gundam fan you might only make it through 10 hours of that 
 before getting bored. Still it makes a nice rent and is easpecially fun to work through with a 
 friend. Even with its flaws I really like the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: donoghu
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 26, 2008 9:49 am PT
Review:  Ok... Where should I start? Let's make it quick and simple...
  
  Good sides :
  -For a change, this game doesn't only involve character from the first gundam series, but some 
 from lates one ("Gundam Wings" for exemple) .
  -After a bit of search, there are about 5 possible special moves and a possibility of 8-12 hit 
 combos for each characters.
  -You can fight on both sides (Like in most Dynasty Warriors...)
  -There is 2 story modes : Original 
 story of each characters and one which involve every one available on a unknown planet. (It's looks 
 like a fight which involve 70-80's gundam' series who're fighting agains 90-00 gundam' series...)
 
  -A good pack of pilot to choose from (3 are available in both story modes, at start, and you need 
 to unlock other) .
  -Good "item combo" system which involve a bit of mind in adjusting your inventory which can only 
 include 3 items per mission.
  -Lots of skills to choose from. (Can use 4 of them per mission)
  -"Territory system" is funny... 
 If you take control of a territory, allie appear on it often... it's the same for enemies' territories 
 which mean "Killing spray" in my head XD.
  
  Bad side :
  -One the story side, this game is the one who offer the most little informations about the Gundam 
 universe of each series.
  -It can become quick repetitive.
  -Sometimes, bosses regain all their health in the middle of a battle, which is making it a bit 
 more harder, when you have been fighting for 30-40 minutes and start to feel like "it will never 
 end".
  -Items are a hell to be found. You will surely always use the same, except if you find better.
 
  
  Personnal feeling:
  -I think that, some times, fight takes too much time to be done with... Some mission takes around 
 30 minutes to be done with none stop smashing actions. If you die with the final boss (which, sometime, 
 is alone and stronger than you... which mean "no special attack and no item" and which mean either 
 that it will take forever to finish...)
  -Even if the voice acting is really bad, it has always been like this... We're talking about voice 
 which was made long time ago... so it's only normal that it's bad, for today's technology! 
  -Some times, there're so many things that happen that you can hardly choose between "save the allies" 
 or "save the mission"... You can never really know if the enemies which attack a point will take 
 it in 10 minutes or in 20 secondes... I have seen a terrictory with two allies heroes and over 
 50 mobiles suits being crushed by Amato's gundam alone in less than 2 minutes... Right after, it 
 was game over...
  This is where the stress coming from... Uncertain on nothing! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chewygun
Rating: 5.5
Date: Feb 22, 2008 6:03 pm PT
Review:  The story is.... well, I'm not actually sure there is one. Either that or the story is so bad you'll 
 want to disregard it. 
  
  The gameplay is actually fine, if you don't mind pressing the same few buttons over and over again. 
 You're pretty much doing the same combos again and again to kill enemies and capture field points 
 and stuff. Very repetitive, but at least you see yourself smacking stuff and watching it break 
 into a few pieces....
  
  The biggest flaw in this game is actually the camera. The camera system in this game is VERY BAD. 
 The camera doesn't move or anything, meaning you'll have to change it yourself. That's the annoying 
 part, because the moment your gundam moves, it magically resets itself, forcing me to adjust it 
 constantly, so everytime I'm playing against a buddy locally, some battles just last forever because 
 we're having trouble keeping each other on our screens! You probably wouldn't want to play this 
 game after the first 30 mins because you'll most likely be bored out of your mind. 
  
  However, despite all the problems that this game has, I do have to say that some people like constantly 
 spamming the same combos and don't really mind the camera, so if you don't mind that, try out this 
 game. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: temjinyui
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 28, 2008 8:41 am PT
Review:  Well the jap's have gone crazy on this game and i don't blame them. If your a fan of the serise 
 that theres no doubt that you will love the game, But saying, The game runs on the DW engine which 
 for a new release game you could a say its out dated. there are good nd bad points to this game 
 so to simplfiy things im just going to list em.
  
  Good Points
  
  GUNDAM'S!!!! nothing more like a 200 ft mech going on a rampage.
  Plenty of charcaters to choose 
 from.
  Co op. I luv Co op games and thats what make Koei DW games special
  New Based story mode + the actual offical mode!
  The first of many i hope!!
  
  Bad Points
 
  Ugh Ugh DW engine. its not bad but we would luv a new update.
  Only 2 Characaters and mechs out of Gundam Wing (sob sob) the reason i got the game was because 
 i could play as Heero and Zech, i just hope that there would be more characaters out of Wing.
 
  No Gundam SEED characaters.
  Repetative combo system.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gigastormz
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 8, 2008 8:58 am PT
Review:  Dynasty Warriors Gundam is essentially a cross between the Dynasty Warriors and Gundam universes. 
 The gameplay is basically exactly the same as Dynasty Warriors only the game is set in the Gundam 
 universe. You play as 16 or so different pilots and mobile suits from various Gundam anime. Present 
 and accounted for are characters and mecha from the original Mobile Suit Gundam, Zeta Gundam, Gundam 
 ZZ, Gundam Wing and Turn a Gundam. Modes of play include original mode, official mode and versus. 
 You can set the difficulty to easy, normal or hard.
  
  Original Mode is a brand new Gundam storyline created just for this game. You pick any one of 16 
 pilots as you investigate a stange planet that appears around earth and fight off the mysterious 
 and new Musha Gundam mobile suit. This mode has characters from various Gundam storylines, that 
 normally wouldn't be in battle together, fighting for their lives. For example you'd have Amuro 
 Ray from the original Gundam and Heero Yuy from Gundam Wing in the same battle.
  
  There is also the Official Mode which follows the storyline from either Mobile Suit Gundam, Zeta 
 Gundam or ZZ Gundam. You can play as Amuro Ray from Gundam, Kamille Bidan from Zeta Gundam, Judau 
 Ashtau from ZZ Gundam, Char Aznable from Gundam/Zeta Gundam, Sirocco from Zeta Gundam and Haman 
 Karn from Zeta Gundam and ZZ Gundam. Versus mode is just that, you and a friend battling it out 
 with your favorite mobile suits. Sadly there is no online play but you can play offline via split 
 screen mode in either the versus mode or co-op in the official or original modes.
  
  One thing you'll notice right away is that the English voice acting is absolutely atrocious. It's 
 just horrible and there is no reason to listen to it when you have the option of switching the 
 dialogue to Japanese with English subtitles. The nice thing about that is all of the original voice 
 actors from the Japanese animes reprise their roles for the game.
  
  Before a mission begins you will see the various victory conditions (or losing conditions) as well 
 as a layout of the map that shows where your troops are and where the enemies are. The level design 
 is very similar to that of Dynasty Warriors. You see a lot of red and blue dots on the screen that 
 indicate who are your allies and who are enemies. You are given tasks to take out certain enemy 
 locations (fields) , defeat certain enemy commanders or to guard your own allies. All it really 
 comes down to is destroying as many enemies as fast as possible.
  
  The losing conditions usually consit of characters or mobile suits that must survive the battle 
 or else it's game over. This can be a problem because often times you'll notice that frequently 
 you'll be fighting off a boss when one of your allies calls for help. Then you'll have to drop 
 what you're doing and go run over there to help them before they get killed and you loose the mission. 
 It can be quite frustrating at times, but travel in DW: Gundam is a lot easier than in other Dynasty 
 Warriors games, since thankfully you are piloting giant machines capable of flight or at least 
 they have rocket packs that allow for faster movement then if you were just on foot. Even then, 
 sometimes you won't make it to your allies in time and you will loose the game right then and there. 
 Luckily there is a save feature that lets you save the game whenever you want so this helps avoid 
 those problems.
  
  The controls are simple enough and they work well in combat, however the camera is a huge problem 
 with this game. Basically you'll have to constantly move the camera around so that the camera stays 
 behind your character so you can see what the hell you're attacking. Otherwise you'll end up looking 
 at your character as you're swinging at something offscreen and have no idea if you're connecting 
 your hits or not. So you'll find yourself constantly hitting the camera reset button so it centers 
 behind your character. Very annoying.
  
  When you defeat an enemy commander or guard, sometimes an item will drop. The item can be either 
 a temporary power up (increased armor, damage, speed, health, etc.) or it can be a special equipable 
 item that will increase your melee, ranged shots, armor, health or speed. After a mission you will 
 see what items you received, if any and then you have the option of equiping them in the intermission 
 screen. There are around 15 different items but then there are 4 variations of each one, all with 
 different stats. If you play the game on the hard difficulty you will obtain the best versions 
 of each item.
  
  While you are in combat and facing an enemy commander sometimes there are some neat cutscenes that 
 will take place. These CG cutscenes are directly from the various anime your characters appear 
 in. It is really neat to see these scenes in 3D, especially if you're a big Gundam fan like me, 
 and are familiar with the various anime. Note: if you are playing the original mode, there will 
 be cutscenes as well but these are brand new ones created just for the story. Another neat thing 
 that may happen while you are facing a guard or commander is your swords will clash and the screen 
 will pause as your characters yell out various battle dialoge.
  
  The other big problem with the game besides the camera, is that the combat gets pretty monotonous. 
 You have a slash attack with a melee weapon, your long range attack, and then your super attack. 
 There are really only a few different combos that you can perform and you'll probably end up using 
 only 2 or 3 of those. Some people may even go through the whole game pressing one button the whole 
 time.
  
  Overall this is a decent game but it really shines in the hands of a true Gundam fan. If you've 
 never played a Dynasty Warriors game and have no idea what Gundam is, you probably will not like 
 this. But if you love Gundam as much as me, you're going to have a great time piloting your favorite 
 mobile suits in this hack and slash action game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BaronPwent
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 15, 2007 8:23 pm PT
Review:  If you have played a Dynasty Warriors game, then you already will be familiar with the combat system 
 of Gundam. Replace ancient Chinese legend and history with giant anime robots. Of course, there 
 is something to be said for adapting a proven hit to a hit anime universe. It sounds like a solid 
 idea and in execution isn't bad, but certainly could have been better.
  
  The old dynasty warriors control scheme is begining to feel very dated. The camera control is particularly 
 annoying given the faster dashing and maneuvering of the gundams. Yet, the button mashing mayhem 
 still proves to be entertaining. Particularly with the diverse array of gundam available. The rendition 
 of all the various gundam is very well done. Sadly, the list of available gundam isn't as complete 
 as some fans would certainly like. Hopefully there will be future versions that expand the roster.
 
  
  The sound is both excelllent and horrid at the same time. Songs and vocals have been stripped directly 
 from the show making any fan grin with glee.... at least for the first half dozen times. Some of 
 the voice over lines are repeated so often that they loose all meaning. A few even have little 
 meaning in the first place.
  
  Overall, DW: G is still an entertaining game that will eat up plenty of hours especially if you 
 are a completionist and want to max out everything. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Michael-24
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 15, 2007 6:18 pm PT
Review:  Not a bad game. I just wish there were more mobile suits. (Heavyarms would have been fun) Wing was 
 one of the most popular Gundam series with a lot of mobile suits that were completely left out. 
 Bandai may correct this later with a download I hope. There was no official mode with any Wing 
 characters. Seed was skipped all together as far as I could tell. Still at lest some of this maybe 
 corrected at a later date. Dynasty Warriors maybe a dead series but Gundam never gets old for an 
 anime fan. Note this game is a little to easy on the normal settings for my taste. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: benbonney
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 15, 2007 4:26 am PT
Review:  Ok firstly lets get one thing straight, i am a gundam fan yet not really a fan of koei games. Anyway 
 you may of heard bad things of this game but it is rather fun, theres lots of variety and fun to 
 be had, i think what i cant stand though is the character voices.... you know from hearing them 
 straight away there not proper ones, its sooo annoying. As for the story its an original not just 
 a retelling of other stuff, dont want to spoil it for you, but theres a demo on xbox live of it 
 for free so try that if your intrested. anyway if your a gundam fan youll love it, if ya a DW fan 
 then at least rent it, but for a gundam game thats in english its very good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: E_Bagee
Rating: 3
Date: Nov 14, 2007 4:30 pm PT
Review:  Yay dynasty warriors! the seventh one? yay gundam the 6th one? Gundam IN dynasty warriors?! thats 
 a first. It should also be a last if this continues. But instead of ranting about it's predecessors 
 heres what the game is like.
  
  First off Production value is off the scale! in suck. Check out the background for instance. Oh 
 noes vast plces of copy and pasted land. Definetly no effort put into that. Character design.... ok 
 look at the opponents... count the different types at one time... oh look I see three.... And overall 
 graphics suck even for cell shading. Voice acting. When will koei EVER learn not to insult themself. 
 I mean they might find a reason to insult the chinese in dynast warriors... (im chinese) but Gundam?! 
 It's Anime's pride and joy! Their storyline and some characters came from the series way back when 
 (1970-80ish?) and so only hardcore fans would understand. Better lines would also be needed as 
 well. Also for a 360 game it sure is GRAND! i mean oh noes i see 30 enemies... theyre swarming.... gahhhh....*shoots 
 self. They should seriously EXPAND EXPAND EXPAND. If im fighting swarms of dynasty warrior enemies. 
 I WANT GIANT SWARMS. Give me like 150 guys onscreen and let me mow em down... if combat allows it.
 
  
  As how combat goes... I think its not satisfying at all. Most enemies take around 3-5 shots to kill. 
 After your average 3 shot combo, the enemies usually fall down and you have a half second down 
 time. this makes every repetitive 15 enemy battly last FOREVER. If you had a longer sword it could 
 help as well not a stuby bolt of energy yeesh. Guns generally suck as you cannot spam most and 
 do minimal damage. also clearing moves dont actually clear and mad super attacks are easy to attain 
 but leaves no satifaction.
  
  If you wanna pick up a fun game to hack and slash. Step on this one as you retrieve N9 ninety nine 
 nights (or knights I forgot ;P) This game is a better hack n' slash (a best hasn't come out yet) . 
 But with a combo system that's easy to use and completely different character classes, clearing 
 combos, fun charge moves, hundreds of enemies plus a lil lag... leaves you with satisfaction as 
 you smite em dead. Although it also lacks enemy creativity and bland environments. But character 
 graphics are great and bad voice acting... BUT its still better than gundam and its around 20 bucks.
 
  
  So yea unless u wanna see the storyline of anything thats gundam get this game. Fun time? Not a 
 chance in texas. So cya hopes this helped 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Infimis
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 29, 2007 3:11 pm PT
Review:  This game is in between good and bad. The good: GUNDAM and The Bad : Nothing really new. If your 
 new to the Dynasty warriors series then I would suggest renting this one before going out and buying 
 it. This game allows you to play out the Gundam story but after you up a few levels it gets too 
 easy and repetitive. I wish hey would've done more with the gun play. It gets annoying to see a 
 massive Robot shoot lasers that just tickle the enemy. Rent It! give it a shot and if you don't 
 like it, you ain't gotta deal with it in your library. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Madcows
Rating: 5.5
Date: Oct 19, 2007 4:37 pm PT
Review:  This game is ok at best. I was a gundam fan and a dynasty warriors fan but both were years ago. 
 It is a basic button pusher for sure. The graphics are good and so is the sound and both are nothing 
 special. For gundam fans it is pretty cool seeing some of the characters again but the game gets 
 old fast. You will unlock a lot of other gundams as well as upgrades as you end chapters. Its fun 
 for a few days and hard to rent so find a friend that is done with it. It shouldnt take to long 
 for you to be done with it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SGreen15LA
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 17, 2007 2:31 am PT
Review:  If you're into fighting wave upon wave of giant fighting robots, Dynasty Warriors: Gundam is a 
 good option. The game is easy to get the hang of as you are immediately thrust into battle with 
 numerous Gundam Mobile Suits throughout the anime and manga series.
  
  The game, however, become repetitive and monotonous fighting the same type of opponents over, and 
 over, and over again. And while it is fun for a short while, it quickly begins to feel like a chore.
 
  
  Basically, I would recommend this game for die-hard Gundam fans, or people who want a basic game 
 to play when they need a break from the likes of Halo 3, Bioshock, and the plethora of gaming fodder 
 known as The Orange Box. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gaeren
Rating: 5.5
Date: Sep 24, 2007 9:29 am PT
Review:  DW: Gundam is just what it should be. An easy to control Gundam game with tons of pilots and mechs 
 to control and upgrade... all while fighting under the umbrella and larger mechanic of dynasty warriors.
 
  
  Is it bad? no. Is it great? Mebbe if you're a dynasty warriors freak perhaps. otherwise it's pretty 
 average. The level design is creative for a DW game, and the zone control is a nice departure from 
 the requirement to kill generals to take over areas.
  
  That said this is next gen and no gundam game seems capable to grasp this. I had levels this detailed 
 on my Dreamcast. Koei stop embarrassing yourselves, and insulting me. Do it with some flair, or 
 stop hogging the shelves at the game store. Also the gameplay is very very repetitive. But if you've 
 played a DW game you already knew this and are fine with that. The explosions are cool, the controls 
 are pretty solid, though many of the gundam mechs could have been left out. They did a poor job 
 with many of the lesser models special moves. Wow strafing and shooting! I've never seen that in 
 a combat game! I mean please.
  
  And Namco Bandai shouldn't even be contributing here. They should be focused on making the next 
 ace combat game, or starting up the xenosaga series again. But I assume they have the rights to 
 gundam so... no accounting for taste I guess.
  
  All in all... DW gundam is fun for 1/2 hr, mebbe an hour or two. After that? Not so much. Rent this 
 puppy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Demonsbane97
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 17, 2007 10:57 am PT
Review:  Dynasty Warriors: Gundam is one of those games that were mashed together. Yeah Dynasty Warriors 
 and Gundam games may be getting old but I don't see how old is bad.
  
  For the Dynasty Warriors fans, this game is the good old button mashing we're used to. Kill a bunch 
 of enemies and take over strategic positions.
  
  For the Gundam fans, every character has a story in some way, shape or form. If you played other 
 versions of Gundam, the story lines all seem to link together decently. The controls aren't clunky 
 like some of the previous titles such as Gundam vs Zeta Gundam.
  
  At first this game will make you think there's nothing to it. But after a few hours of play and 
 a few Mobile suit and Pilot levels later you begin to see things develop. Skills, combos and the 
 faster you kill enemy Mobile Suits.
  They even included upgrades that you can combine for your suits. Some combinations will make the 
 suit either stronger or weaker so if you pay attention to what's actually going up on your stat 
 bar instead of what the item says it does it makes things much easier.
  
  Now as far as the variety of characters goes, I honestly don't think it's all that bad. Let's face 
 it, no game will last you forever. So with that in mind and this being the first version of Dynasty 
 Warriors: Gundam it's not all that bad. I'm sure we all remember Dynasty Warriors 2 and Gundam: 
 Journey to Jaburo. Not much variety but it was still mindless fun.
  
  Personally I enjoy the game because it's a break from the traditional RPG's i'm used to. And if 
 you get a friend to play next to you on the campaings it makes things so much more interesting. 
 So all in all, you got buddies who like Gundam or Dynasty Warriors i'd say get it. It'll kill at 
 least a few days. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: herbku_doavg
Rating: 3.5
Date: Sep 16, 2007 7:56 pm PT
Review:  I should not have hoped that this game would be good since it came from the creators of Dynasty 
 warriors. I like playing this game a whole lot, but I was still disappointed none the less. I really 
 was hoping of playing all the characters from the Gundam Wing series, G Gundam and Gundam Seed 
 series too, since they have the coolest Gundam. Yes their is alot of Gundam to choice from but 
 most of them really SUCK ASS because they are not as effecent as Wing Zero. But I got to hand it 
 to the developers they really got the essience of all the Gundam from the coolest to the lamest. 
 However this is way better than the Dynasty Warrior francise beacuse the killing is some how correct 
 to the anime version and there special is really right on the money. That is why I would rent this 
 game first before owning it because I surely wanted to play it first before I owned it. Hey this 
 is not the only lame game I got since I have Superman. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zombieman666
Rating: 3.5
Date: Sep 15, 2007 10:50 pm PT
Review:  God i remember when i used to love dyansty warriors a few years back dw 3 was so awesome to me 
 i would play it and play it and used to watch the gundam series all like 4 of them and i was a 
 huge fan but i soon grew out and then played this game thinking to things i onced love will be 
 awesome but i was wrong the gombat is flat you pick your gundam and then you battle a bunch of 
 stupid enimes with your mele weapon and then youll shoot them and its boring and thats all you 
 realy need to no the voice acting is bad the graphcis are bad the sould is bad and everything is 
 bad 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cthecoffee
Rating: 3
Date: Sep 15, 2007 2:31 pm PT
Review:  Dynasty warriors hack and slash got old after the second one, and ask yourself. When has there 
 been a gundam game that wasn't the same box looking robots slowly running around attacking each 
 other? DW gundam is the same old DW game with a new look. and with the gundam dialog most people 
 will not understand what there talking about if you never watch the show. At least with DW games 
 the story was the same, if you played one you know who everyone was. Save your money on this one 
 and stop looking at this game, i dont even advise a rent. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Anime-Beast
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 13, 2007 1:24 pm PT
Review:  Dynasty Warriors: Gundam is a compalation of Dynasty Warriors the chinese hack and slash game and 
 Gundam the Giant robot anime.
  
  Story: The gundam story is at work here but there is a new stor for the game
  
  Graphics: One 
 of the best looking dynasty warriors or Gundam games but has nothing on games like Bio Shock
  
  Sound: Passible Americar voice overs but great Japanese voice overs.
  The soud efects a good 
 but nothing spechael, The music sounds great
  
  Game Play: Same old same old Dynasty Warriors gameplay ( take that as you will ) But the new guns 
 arn't very good just because they don't do enough dammage.
  
  Multy Player: 3 diffrent modes but the only good one is 1 on 1 fighting. Could have benifited from 
 army on army multy player. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sindeon
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 10, 2007 6:10 pm PT
Review:  Game play ( if playing with split screen) - 9
  Graphics - 9
  Sound - 8 ( awesome battle sound and play lacking in voice acting)
  Overall - 8.5
  This game 
 I was not expecting much from and it really surprised me by just how great a job they did with 
 this game. The game is cleanly done with great environments. The game play is smooth and easy to 
 pick up but some of the missions will send the hordes of bad guys you would expect in a true all 
 out war game from a Gundam and Dynasty Warrior combination. Overall a great game to play with a 
 friend split screen. This game really shines there the only con to this game was the story voice 
 acting which was not much but that is to be partially expected of this type of game and if you 
 hit start button you can skip them even the text based overviews at the beginnings of the missions 
 to just get to the start of the actual missions. Overall a great job with the huge selection of 
 characters to play with and different play styles between them as to what area they are best at. 
 A great game to sit and play for hours with a friend. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sasuke_Ninja21
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 8, 2007 7:31 pm PT
Review:  This game is definitely NOT for everyone you have to either like or love either or both of these 
 series to enjoy the game and look past the problems that come with this game..... i just like gundam 
 battles and thats the reason i got this game so lets start this review.
  
  This game has some satisfying attacks but you will really only use 2 combos that the gundam produces 
 the other attacks are completely worthless especially when going against someone with a much higher 
 health bar, but thats not what this game is really about its mostly the special attacks and action 
 sequences that youll like about this game. The special attacks are nice to watch and well made 
 up for each gundam but some of them will become a bore after using them alot you will really get 
 into the ones that you like from the gundam series (mine being Heero and i love the blasts from 
 his rifle) . The voice acting isnt that bad but it gets boring from listening say the same fraises 
 over and over again and alot of the voice actors actually dont come back to do their point so theres 
 a sense of a let down there.
  
  The graphics are flashy and the battle sequences when you just watch two gundam's attack each other 
 are nice but their really isnt anything to gasp and say omg that looks amazing i gotta tell some 
 one no it will never come to that at all.
  
  The story line is really the same for each character once you see one or two of them the others 
 will look the same and probably be the same the only difference is your gundam and the way things 
 work out with battles.
  
  All and all this game is DEFINETLY not for everyone, its not that great and the camera issues of 
 moving it around the voice acting and the forgettable story line will not make you come back to 
 this game, but for people like me that likes either one of these series you might actually enjoy 
 the game for what its worth and you will continue to play it even though it might be once and a 
 while 
::::::

::::::
UserName: falconclan
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 6, 2007 10:07 pm PT
Review:  That to me proves that this game is well worth the $60 price. If you've played one dynasty warriors 
 game you probably know what this game is going to be like, a hack and slash with 1000's of enemies 
 with some of the most addicting multiplayer ever. Well more of the same isn't always that bad. 
 I've been a long time gundam fan so this was like a dream come true. These are what gundam battles 
 are supposed to look like. My one big complaint is the A. I. is dumb as a stick. Kammile is in danger 
 is not something you want to see every 5 seconds when 5 of your fields are being taken over. I 
 mean for gods sake Kamille took down the O, how come he can't at least fend for himself for a little 
 while. Some of the missions feel like you are baby sitting the other generals on the field trying 
 your hardest not to have allied fields stolen. So whats so great about it. Well, the gundam part. 
 I mean seriously if you've played dynasty warriors you probably know what its going to be like, 
 but this game has the stories of tons of pilots and gundams and you get to play as most of them 
 too. Each gundam has their own special attack which is awesome to see what exactly they do and 
 there are also tag team attacks where you and an ally fight together more powerful then as a cingular 
 special attack and if you have all 3 sp bars the final attack will be different and more powerful 
 then usual. Its fairly interesting just seeing how the different gundams and pilots work. The original 
 mode is sort of strange and follows its own little story, however the story really... well it sucks. 
 Plain and simple. However, on the plus side you get to play as a bunch of gundams you can't play 
 as in Official mode such as Turn A gundam and The-O (My personal favorites) . You get to fight different 
 pilots and different gundams from very different eras. The second mode, Official Mode, lets you 
 play through various stories of pilots that are factually correct for the most part. All of the 
 stories follow the actual stories of these pilots through the different series' of gundam (not 
 sure if that came out right but whatever, no ones reading all this anyways, right.) From M. S. gundam 
 to Gundam Z (or maybe it was double zeta) . Anyways, this mode is a lot of fun although many of 
 the stories are rather short, some only spanning 2 levels. So the gist is, if you like gundam and 
 you think DW is at LEAST an okay game then you will probably get a lot out of this. There is a 
 lot in here that I can see any gundam fan enjoying. I'm sure I will get well over 50 hours of this 
 game before I actually stop playing it regularly. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cyrax897
Rating: 4.5
Date: Sep 6, 2007 5:33 pm PT
Review:  I'm a big fan of the Dynasty Warriors franchise and they have always been quite a fun button smash 
 game for its time. But the series has been taking a path down hill ever since they released Dynasty 
 Warriors 4.
  
  The same gameplay has been around forever not adding anything new to the series at all just new 
 updated graphics (not quite so great either) and maybe new looks to old characters and some new 
 ones.
  
  Now this game on the other hand just completely destroyed the franchise to me after this. I mean 
 what were they thinking producing a Dynasty Warriors Gundam? The gameplay is slightly different 
 since its not ancient japan weapons and such but with giant anime robots instead. It retains the 
 look and feel like of the old Dynasty Warrior games but is just awful even so with the same concept 
 of killing stuff.
  
  The idea of turning it into Gundam was the biggest mistake instead of creating a new gameplay style 
 and improving on the original they just milked it for a short sum of money with this junk.
  
  Expect this game to in the bargain bin at Wal-Mart in a month. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: swordmast885
Rating: 6
Date: Sep 1, 2007 5:28 pm PT
Review:  If you've ever played a Dynasty Warriors game, you know what to expect. You'll fight through massive 
 amounts of enemies to fight a boss character, rinse and repeat. It's the same basic fighting except 
 that there are the additional dash attacks which does open up more attack options. Something noticeable 
 is that the enemy hordes tend to hit back a lot more which does add some challenge. Unfortunately, 
 you can still beat the game by hitting the X button repeatedly. However, killing a thousand enemies 
 in less than twenty minutes is incredibly satisfying, even if the way you do it is a little lack 
 luster. The story is told abysmally and you'll have no idea of what's going on unless you watched 
 the anime, however, if you're playing this game, you probably have seen most of them. The camera 
 can ocasionaly cause problems when fighing the boss characters, but usualy isn't all that noticeable. 
 On e of the main focuses of the game is replay value. This is clear by the fact that one of the 
 achievments is to kill a total of 100,000 enemies. The game can be fun if you don't come in with 
 high expectations and I would definitly recomend a rental if you're the least bit interested in 
 either Dynasty Warriors or Gundams. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lshezee
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 31, 2007 8:24 pm PT
Review:  I enjoy this game a lot being as i love the dynasty warriors series. I also love the Gundam cartoons 
 as well. I think the G spot reviws are a bit harsh considering the gameplay is very much the same 
 as previous dynasty warriors games. But hey, you can't fault them for what works. If you like Gundam 
 and you like dynasty warriors it's a must have. If you can take or leave the dynasty franchise 
 or just plain hate it then I suggest going an alternate route. The levels are massive like all 
 Dynasty games with hundreds of on screen enemies to fight. Each Mobile suit also has special moves 
 unique to the suit making it more than enough of a great game in my eyes. Like I said, if you're 
 a fan you gotta get it. If not don't wast your time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spyral1
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 31, 2007 4:01 pm PT
Review:  *Namco-Bandai and Koei sit down to discuss what this month's Dynasty Warriors game will be.
  
  *Actual Commentary
  
  Ok, heres an idea.... lets take Gundams, and throw them in with our 
 Dynasty Warriors series, and call it.... uhh... Dynasty Warriors Gundam! 
  
  ... why.. 
  
  ... because, that way instead of just keeping our fan base happy, now we can take all the Gundam 
 and Japanese Anime fans too! 
  
  BRILLIANT! So.... well..... here it is.... it's out.... and its a new Dynasty Warriors game. SURPRISE! 
 Ya, right, the only surprise is the fact that this month's Dynasty Warriors game wasn't in the 
 form of a Dynasty Warriors 5 Extreme Legends Empires Strikes Back II, now with 2 new characters 
 and a map! But in all seriousness, this has got to be the easiest review I've ever done. It's simple, 
 just have to answer a few questions first.
  
  1) Are you a Gundam fan?
  2) Do you like Hack and Slash gameplay?
  3) Do you have extra cash burning in your pocket? If 
 you answered yes to any or all of these ridiculous questions then go buy Dynasty Warriors Gundam. 
 If you answered no to 2 or more, stop reading this review and go buy Bioshock if you haven't already. 
 Now, that being said, DW: Gundam doesn't really do anything spectacular, but at the same time, 
 it doesn't seem to have any flaws either. The only things that bothers me about this game is the 
 fact that there's no online co-op and all of my favorite Mobile Suits aren't in it (which I'm sure 
 will be fixed with a new Dynasty Warriors Gundam Empires or something that will make me spend another 
 30-60 dollars toward my I can't believe i bought another game fund) . The graphics are sharp and 
 the special attacks are just flat out cool to watch. Co-Op and Vs. mode are executed well (despite 
 the fact of not being online) , and the missions are fun and entertaining. There's alot of replay 
 value in a game such as this simply because its almost impossible to complete everything and snag 
 all the achievements. There's tons of Mobile Suits and Pilots all with different stories, and two 
 modes to choose from. Let's not forget the fact that this game is addictive, and i don't mean, 
 hey i need coffee addicted, I mean, sitting on the corner doing things i cant mention in this review 
 to get money for coke addicted. All in all, DW: Gundam brings some new elements to the classic 
 Dynasty Warriors Hack and Slash gameplay, and is just plain fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shadow_Hokage
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 30, 2007 10:16 am PT
Review:  This game is very nice. It combine the dynasty warriors engine (with a few tweeks) with our favorite 
 gundams. There are 3 modes featured. The first is Official mode, where you will play as amuro, 
 Kamile, Char, and severeal others, where it follows their anime stories. The second is Original 
 mode, where they mix the majority of pilots together for a brand new story revolving around a mysterious 
 planet. Then there is versus, which is... Versus? huh... Yes IT DOES HAVE CO-OP. IT DOES NOT HAVE 
 DEATHSCYTHE. IT DOES NOT HAVE XBOX LIVE. sorry for caps, but you will be flamed if you ask for 
 answers on these topics. Graphics: 7.0- Good, but they are certainly not up against Gears, or Bioshock, 
 however, they do have roughly 1400 people on the battlefield at a time.
  
  Sound: all your favorite Gundam tunes, along with some new ones.
  
  Gameplay: It is slightly 
 repetitive, but its fun and addicting, if you've ever like a beat'em up, or dynasty warriors specifically, 
 you will enjoy, or I will chew my foot! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GyspyDevil
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 30, 2007 8:54 am PT
Review:  I'm not a gundam fanboy and Dynasty warriors games usually bore me pretty quickly.... but I gotta 
 say.... I like this game. This is not halo, or bioshock, or any other game on that level. It's more 
 like a really fun and addictive grade B game.
  
  It might just be because I had low expectations, but I was surprised with how much fun I had while 
 playing this game. The presentation is good imho. I like the fighting cut scenes, I like the match 
 up with multiple mini-bosses, I like the sheer number of suits on the field at one time, I like 
 the close combat and slow motion sequences. Combat isn't perfect but better than I expected. The 
 combos seem limited at first but when combine with dash/jump/counter/boost, it becomes pretty engaging. 
 The most important part of this combat system in my opinion is that the combo with the most attacks 
 isn't always the best. I found myself mixing my combos regularly to create a more effective attack 
 within a certain radius. I think it's pretty fun.
  
  Graphics fit nicely. Very fitting for the games settings, but in the end I think could have been 
 better.
  
  Sound, no complaints.
  
  I think this game is simple and fun. It does not deserve a 10 but nor does it deserve less than 
 a 7.
  
  That being the case I have to rate it as a 10 simply to offset the people who rate games as 1's, 
 2's, or 3's when they don't deserve those scores 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheVinster
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 29, 2007 7:49 pm PT
Review:  Let me start off by saying I am a big Dynasty Warriors fan, but I usually rent the games because 
 of Koei's tendancy to come out with ridiculous and uninspired games every few months using the 
 Dynasty Warriors formula. This is probably the first Dynasty Warrior game I've ever bought, and 
 I don't regret it, for once, it's a buy. On that topic, I am no Gundam fanatic, but the Gundams 
 are great to look at and a good change of pace from Japanese warlords.
  
  Gameplay: Your basic DW (Dynasty Warriors) hack-'n-slash, where you start at a point on the map 
 and go about an objective, whether it be destroying a specific Gundam, or taking a particular zone, 
 matches can take from 10 minutes (the rushers) to the amount I usually take which is around 20 
 minutes (those who take every zone, kill every Gundam, get the level down pat) . With that said, 
 it's the same things you've seen in Koei games before, you have your pilot and your gundam, which 
 both level up individually increasing their stats and potential special attacks (musou) . You can 
 then change your parts to modify your stats, and equip skills to, for instance, initiate a damaging 
 shockwave when you activate your special attack. Obviously Gundams don't ride horses, so your faster 
 transportation mechanic is to fly, or even dash, around the map. The real downpoint is getting 
 to the action, you'll be dashing/flying your heart out to a point, kill an enemy Gundam, then one 
 will appear far away from you and you'll be dashing on over there just as well; the only real downfall. 
 You have at your disposal a melee attack and a gun attack, which you can string together to form 
 combos and charge attacks, as well as adding dash in for a nice shove. So that's about it, not 
 much to go over, it's simple but addicting (try the demo on the XBL marketplace if you're unsure, 
 hack-'n-slash isn't for everyone) .
  
  Graphics: Probably high-end Xbox graphics, it doesn't really push the hardware. There are a fair 
 amount of enemies on screen, moreso than any previous DW game, but when they die their corpse explodes 
 (in other words, they dissapear) so... yea. Also, the Gundams are great to look at, but the terrain 
 and sky is dissapointing, as well as the generic robots you'll fight, besides the enemy Gundams 
 which actually look quite cool and well-done.
  
  Sound: The sound is a decent Gundam soundtrack, but the actors are still plain, and their lines 
 are often repeated countless times throughout your numerous playings... get use to it. I, personally, 
 loved Nobunaga Oda saying, It's just that simple, 20 times every game.
  
  Value: For $60, it may not be the most deserving game of your cash, so I'd recommend a rental or 
 a trial of the demo if you're unsure, but if you love the hack-'n-slash of DW and the sci-fi story 
 of Gundams, it's a pretty good buy. The achievements are pretty difficult, one of them is to kill 
 100,000 enemies in your career, a hardy task. But for those fanatics, like me, it's a must-buy, 
 the pilots, Gundams, skills, and parts are a fresh take on the Koei formula. But if you really 
 love DW and SW, then you could wait for Warriors Orochi coming out in September, it's more of an 
 opinionated choice. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JBiker51
Rating: 3
Date: Aug 29, 2007 6:59 pm PT
Review:  I used to love Dynasty Warriors. My favorite one happens to be Dynasty Warriors 3: Extreme Legends, 
 where they perfected the formula. Problem is, though, nothing ever changes with the series, and 
 now that they have released their SECOND 360 game and it still looks like a PS2 game shows just 
 how much they actually care.
  
  The first sign of weakness comes when you realize the plot is a load of BS. Gundam fans, sorry, 
 but the show you watch must be hella weak to have a terrible story like this. The voice acting 
 is also either dude-on-sleeping-pills or 
 
  And what's with the names for characters? I'm sure to take someone named Master China seriously. 
 All this is bad and all, but the gameplay's got to renew this, right? I mean, this IS Dynasty Warriors, 
 and you get to get a massive kill count! This is where the game's biggest flaw comes around; apart 
 from a different story and a different
  look, THIS IS THE SAME GAME YOU'VE PLAYED MILLIONS OF TIMES. And when I say same, I mean it. You've 
 got the same map (briefing and in-game) , the same attacks, the same enemy AI (so outdated it's 
 painful) , the same in-game officers you need to kill, the same full-meter powers (and the same 
  and on and on. You know the little messages 
 that pop up when you kill in intervals of 50, the ones that congratulate you, and your master complements 
 you? The same thing goes for this entry, and instead of trying to mix it up, they say the EXACT 
 SAME LINES! Thanks for the complement, Master China, I REALLY care what you think.
  
  An even bigger flaw is that they DO try and change a couple of things, like the lines your character 
 says and a small bit of the fighting controls, they completely break and make worse. When you're 
 laying waste to a bunch of robotic fiends, your dude doesn't make some insanely-cheesy-yet-awesome 
 quip; he says a line like Mission accomplished or some other insanely robotic line with the enthuiasm 
 of a dead cat! Also, you know how in past Dynasty Warriors entries you could use a small bit of 
 your power bar by combining some basic attacks with the button? They ripped that out. Your power 
 isn't even powerful; just you shooting lots of shots at an enemy right in front of you!
  
  It's time to put the Dynasty to bed. Trying to get Gundam fans interested was a noble effort, but 
 it fails miserably. Whatever the hell company makes this game all the time, try making a new game 
 instead of the same old stuff every time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FlawlessSeasons
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 29, 2007 4:20 pm PT
Review:  For some reason in the months prior to the release of Dynasty Warriors: Gundam, there were people 
 on forums somehow confused as to what this game is where its the most simple concept. Its Dynasty 
 Warriors with Gundams. Thats it. Substitute Chinese Warlords with giant mechs and thats pretty 
 much the game in a nut shell.
  
  Having said that, if youve played a Dynasty Warriors game before, you know what to expect here, 
 there are tons of enemies, and you need to take out as many as you can. Thats it, nothing special, 
 it hasnt changed. This could be bad for some because it may be boring, but for a few its very 
 addicting, and the fact that its set in a science fiction giant robot battle setting, it breathes 
 new life into a dull series. There are a few modes in the game. First is Official Mode, which takes 
 you through several key plot points from many of the Gundam series, most of which (if not all) 
 come from the Universal Century plot line. The next mode is Original Mode which takes characters 
 and mobile suits from the Future Century plot line and mashes them all together in an original 
 story which doesnt make too much sense. Last and certainly least is versus mode which is really 
 just a tacked on battle mode. Theres no Live play so if you want to go mono y mono with your buddy 
 with your giant mobile suites of death, youll have to be sitting next to each other with a crappy 
 split screen option. The only thing thats technically great about the game is the characters on 
 screen at once which like most Dynasty Warriors games, is a lot. The graphics are pretty good; 
 there just isnt really a whole lot to be wowed by. The audio is okay, the one good thing about 
 the audio is they managed to get (only) some of the original voice actors from the series to reprise 
 their roles in the game. In the end, its just another Dynasty Warriors game. If you dont like 
 these games, DW: Gundam isnt gonna change your mind, but if you find these games addicting and 
 have a thing for anime or just Gundams, youll love it. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
