-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Dynasty Warriors 5 Empires
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/xbox360/action/dynastywarriors5empires/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 The empire mode is bigger than ever, with more scenarios, policies, and officers.
 The strategy elements of the empire mode make the repetitive battles far easier to stomach.
 A good, solid chunk of content.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Battles still tend to get rather tedious.
 360 version looks more like an original Xbox game than a 360 game.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Mar 28, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.1
Critic Score: 6.2, 50 Review (s)
User Score: 7.6, 1,398 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Koei
Developer: Omega Force
Genre: Beat-'Em-Up
Date: Mar 28, 2006
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Thanks to some solid strategy, the Empires expansion to Dynasty Warriors 5 turns out to be the bright 
 spot amid the doldrums of endless button-mashing. 

  The Dynasty Warriors train continues unabated in Dynasty Warriors 5: Empires. As was the case with 
 the progression from original game release to final update of Dynasty Warriors 4, the fifth iteration 
 of Koei's unstoppable hack-and-slash action franchise set in ancient China started with a warmed-over 
 version of its predecessor in Dynasty Warriors 5, moved on to a menial content upgrade in Dynasty 
 Warriors 5: Xtreme Legends, and somehow manages to bring it all home with the arrival of Empires, 
 an expansion that turns the endless hacking and slashing on its head with strategy elements that 
 are actually kind of fun, even with all the button-mashing you'll still be doing as battles are 
 fought. It doesn't contain quite the same level of content as Dynasty Warriors 5 did on its own, 
 but it's still the best version of the game there is on the PlayStation 2. As for Xbox 360 owners, 
 this will be your first chance to try the series on the platform, for better or for worse.  

          Yes, you once again have to mash buttons and cut hundreds upon hundreds of dimwitted 
 soldiers to death...     

  Dynasty Warriors 5: Empires follows the same trials and tribulations of the same caricatures of 
 real-life historical Chinese warriors as the other versions of every other Dynasty Warriors game 
 has. The primary difference in Empires is that it replaces the individual story modes of the original 
 game's many, many characters with the empire mode. The empire mode is an interesting hybrid between 
 the "kill lots of dudes" beat-'em-up gameplay the series has employed for years, and a strategy 
 element that gives those many, many battles some honest-to-god context. There are six distinct 
 scenarios available in the empire mode, and you can choose to play as any of the available warlords 
 that currently occupy territory on the map of China that is the primary menu in the empire mode. 
 In some cases, you also have the option of using a created warlord (via the game's edit mode) to 
 occupy a currently vacant territory. From here, it's all about conquering new territory, as well 
 as defending your own.  

  Doing so is a multistep process that consists mostly of maintaining resources and upgrading via 
 orders. The primary resource you use in the mode is gold. You earn gold through taxing your people, 
 which is actually an automatic process. The more territory you hold, the more gold you get, and 
 so on. However, it's what you use the gold on that's especially interesting. Every year in the 
 game is broken up into four turns (one for each season) , and on each turn, you begin by consulting 
 your generals and giving orders based on their suggestions. These orders can range from supplementing 
 a specific general or lieutenant's troop counts to going into a territory and listening to the 
 words of the people, thus raising their support for you. Most of these orders have tangible effects 
 on how the game plays out -- especially the tactics, which are also earned via the suggestions of 
 your generals. Tactics are special abilities you can use while on the battlefield, like a raze 
 effect that scorches all the enemy territory, and specific sorcerer and bandit units that will 
 follow you as you fight.  

  Another thing you'll have to be mindful of is where you place your officers. You can have up to 
 three generals and three lieutenants in each territory you control, and it's key that you have 
 at least a few officers with decent troop counts in any area that borders an opposing warlord's 
 territory (who will even sometimes assist you in battle) . You can circumvent this issue somewhat 
 by forming alliances with other warlords, but once that alliance is up, you're basically fair game. 
 You gain more officers by engaging in battles and hiring captured officers. They don't always want 
 to defect to your side, but often they will, which helps build up your army nicely.  

  These tactics and officer positionings are really the only major wrinkles in what is otherwise 
 very much a Dynasty Warriors brand of battle. You go out onto a massive battlefield like you always 
 do, run around, occasionally encounter sizeable groupings of soldiers, take them all out, and go 
 do that some more until you've made your way to the primary enemy stronghold and have taken out 
 the opposing leader. In between, you'll find a number of attack and supply bases you can capture 
 to give your side the territorial advantage, but of course, you do so simply by knocking out all 
 the guard captains that hang out inside. Frankly, the action itself is as tedious as it's ever 
 been, but the strategy elements of the gameplay outside the battles give the tedious action significantly 
 more purpose. Seeing territory come under your control on the main map is oddly satisfying, and 
 the strategy itself isn't so tough as to be inaccessible to those who haven't been playing strategy 
 games for years and years.  

          But the game's strategy elements are good enough that all that mindless hacking actually 
 feels like it has a purpose!     

  So, with all of that said, here's where things get a bit tricky. Empires is available for both 
 the PlayStation 2 and the Xbox 360. Obviously, that's a bit of an odd combo. On the 360, this is 
 the first Dynasty Warriors game to appear on the system in North America, but it costs slightly 
 more than the PlayStation 2 version, and it's safe to say that this doesn't really look much like 
 a 360 game -- more like an Xbox game that looks a tad bit cleaner and runs a tad bit smoother. There 
 aren't even that many more enemies onscreen compared to what can be displayed on the PS2 version, 
 and the frame rate still dips on rare occasions. Viewing things in HD does zero to help matters, 
 either. But because Empires still isn't a full-priced 360 game, if you own only a 360 and have 
 no access to the cheaper PS2 version, despite the game's limited use of the 360's capabilities, 
 it's still a decent investment if this style of game is appealing to you.  

  Dynasty Warriors 5: Empires is the definitive proof that Koei should probably stop making Dynasty 
 Warriors games as we know them and focus solely on making new variations on the Empires formula. 
 If you combined the vast array of storylines found in the original game's musou mode with the strategic 
 value of the empire mode, you'd really have something. And even though the story elements are minimal 
 at best in DW 5's empire mode, there's definitely enough content to be found here to engage those 
 who like a little more strategy with their hack-and-slash action.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (90 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Feedbackdrmmr15
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 28, 2008 12:43 pm PT
Review:  Game Review-Xbox 360-Dynasty Warriors 5 Empires
  
  Review 171
  
  Released: March 28, 2006
  Publisher: Koei
  Developer: Omega Force
  Game Genre: Beat-'Em-Up
 
  ESRB Rating: T for Teen
  ESRB Description: Mild Language, Violence
  
  Story: 30%
  Gameplay: 40%
  Graphics: 20%
  Durability: 10%
  
  Story (6/10)
  The storyline has almost 
 entirely disappeared from this 'expansion' of Dynasty Warriors 5. Some of the battles have remained, 
 such as the Yellow Turban Rebellion and the overthrowing of Dong Zhuo. Because forces change during 
 the course of an era, some major battles cannot happen because of different personnel. 
  
  Gameplay (9/10)
  The gameplay takes a little bit of getting used to. There are a number of scenarios 
 to choose from, and completing one unlocks another. Once a scenario is selected, you must choose 
 a force to use throughout the scenario. You have the option of choosing an already built force 
 or creating an entirely new force in an empty area.
  
  There are two phases inside the game; strategy and battle. The battle phase is very much the same 
 as it is in Dynasty Warriors 5. The strategy phase is new with the expansion. In this phase, you 
 have hundreds of options available to you. This is where you take care of any planning or building 
 involved in war. Hiring officers, replenishing forces, forging alliances, upgrading defense, assisting 
 allies, defending against enemies, and invading an enemy territory are just a few of many available 
 choices .
  
  For those unfamiliar with the battle phase, it is a simple beat-'em-up style. There are a few small 
 changes that make the game a little more difficult and much more enjoyable. For example, when you 
 defeat an enemy officer you can capture them, or more likely, they will simply retreat and reappear 
 later in the battle.
  
  Graphics (8/10)
  The graphics have made some small improvements from being on a next-gen console, but are not phenomenal 
 like so many great Xbox 360 games.
  
  Durability (7/10)
  The Empires expansion is not nearly as durable as the original Dynasty Warriors 5 game for the 
 Xbox because there are only six or seven scenarios to play, whereas there were 48 characters' storylines 
 to complete in the Xbox title. There is, however, a scenario in which you create every force.
 
  
  Previous Reviews
  Dynasty Warriors 5 (XBOX) (8/10)
  
  Overall Score (7.7/10)
  Rounded Score (7.5/10)
  
  Final Thoughts:
  Even though you do not need the original Dynasty 
 Warriors 5 game to play this expansion, it is altogether pointless to play if you did not play 
 the original game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NBAmaster33
Rating: 5.5
Date: Aug 9, 2008 8:20 am PT
Review:  I enjoyed Dynasty Warriors 3 so much more than this mediocre game. First off, the presentation 
 isn't what the Xbox 360 is capable of doing. They actually look like PS2 graphics. The environments 
 don't look too bad (though there are pop-ups) but the character models look bad, and there isn't 
 much variety. In cutscenes, however, the game does have some nice visuals. The gameplay is pretty 
 much the same as previous Dynasty Warriors games. The major letdown is this Empire Mode. I don't 
 like strategy games, which is what this game has been turned into. The reason I liked DW3 a lot 
 better was because you don't actually have to think about what you're doing. That's what I didn't 
 enjoy about the game. For die-hard dynasty warriors fans, go rent or buy. But to me, this is, at 
 its best, a sideways step for the series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mckelvey1987
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 13, 2008 10:03 pm PT
Review:  A great game if you are not only into the fighting games but into strategy and tactics. It's like 
 risk but with fighting involved that causes you to use your head and not just kill people which 
 makes it that much more fun. Not a game for people just wanting to do a killing spree or just fighting. 
 Also you make gold throughout your empire to afford things which adds a little more thinking into 
 it making you think of what to improve about your empire and be more productive with your tactics. 
 This game takes thinking in it as well to make your empire which makes it the way you want it and 
 that makes it more fun. More people more stages and more tactics an move to use . Can't wait until 
 I get number 6 and see what it has to offer. Definitely a game to rent and try out and definitely 
 the game for critical thinkers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rojan_Bo
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 27, 2008 7:38 pm PT
Review:  For any Warriors Label fan this game has the perfect balance of strategy and button mashing goodness! 
 It could be said that this Warriors game is the best in the Label but that title could also be 
 taken by the popular Samurai Warriors series. If you enjoyed any of the previous Dynasty Warriors 
 or Samurai Warriors Titles then there is no chance that you wont enjoy this one! So get your button 
 mashing fingers ready for this new twist on the Warriors series that gives you a break from all 
 the mashing nd sets them on a more tactical course of action that allows you to control differet 
 aspects that were taken for granted in the other games.
  
  In conclusion my opinion would be that this game is good for not only die hard Warriors fans but 
 also for getting more tactical game players into this kind of primitive yet highly addictive button 
 mashing combat. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: combatsoldier
Rating: 2.5
Date: May 31, 2008 6:22 am PT
Review:  alright little boys and girls and people that actually care, listen up. heres the scoop with this 
 one. when you first play it, this one is actually pretty decent however the problem is there is 
 no replay value what so ever.... after you beat it once in a short couple of hours then thats it. 
 i was so excited with this one. that is until i dared and put it into my 360. 
  
  once you beat it, the story line remains the same and there is no change at all nomatter what you 
 do. everything makes the same move and there is no point in wasting your money on this one... boohoo 
 dont cry punk, grow up and go get samurai warriors 2 and smile before its to late.
  
  this one made me want to vomit and the 360 wouldnt talk to me for a week. oops did i just say that. 
 shows you how much this game sucks lol. bottom line is rent it for about two or three days then 
 return it and never look at it again as long as you live...... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Quickee42
Rating: 2.5
Date: Mar 22, 2008 11:16 am PT
Review:  I was new to the dynasty warriors games when I first began playing this one, but some half an hour 
 later, I felt like I'd known the games for years. For those unitiated with the empires expansions 
 of these games, they basically boil down to two halves.
  
  The first of these is the fighting part, which basically leaves you to your own devices on a battlefield, 
 trying to either defeat the enemy commander or take over a line of supply bases (basically, small 
 squares with about thirty enemies in) leading up to the enemy main supply base. There's also some 
 officers running round the battlefield trying to do the same as you, the number of which depends 
 on how things have worked out in the strategy element to the game. That's the attacking game, but 
 the defence game is basically the same except for the fact that if you win, there's no rewards 
 beyond the possibility of experience and a few officers if you've mauled the attackers.
  
  There are quite a few problems with the whole fighting part of the game; namely, the worst is that 
 you'll find yourself doing the same thing over and over again unless you die. There's another problem 
 with this, as the difficulty just isn't right. There are several difficulty settings, but you'll 
 find that you either beat every enemy near you or die in one of the first few battles with enemy 
 officers. The unbalance between officers and other soldiers is also quite ridiculous. You'll find 
 yourself wading through soldiers, who stand there gormlessly while you find the time to dispatch 
 them, while enemy officers will often provide a fair challenge if you're on the right difficulty 
 setting.
  
  Combat is laughably simplistic, and what there actually is isn't even done well. Being a fighting 
 game, I at least expected a few different moves, but the fact is that you just hit the x button 
 a few times (depending on the character, this can be up to about 6 without being able to be interrupted) 
 or the b button once you've hit the x button enough. There's the whole archery malarkey, but it's 
 painfully executed. You can't move while you reload, and there's nothing on-screen to show that 
 you're reloading since the action moves straight to being directly behind your (invisible) bow, 
 from which arrows shoot out in a straight line towards your target. Auto-targeting makes the whole 
 system even worse, as you seem to have nigh-on no control over what you aim at beyond the general 
 direction.
  
  Other gripes include (and I'm going to list them now since there's so many) ; sudden enemies coming 
 into existence if you've attacked bases in the wrong order, long times running between bases, horrendous 
 draw-distances, enemies suddenly running away and seemingly vaporising, dead enemies spontaneously 
 disappearing, the old person-going-through-person problem, awful weapon effects, rubbish collision 
 detection that the developers have tried to cover up with a rather strange explosion every time 
 you hit anything. How often does that happen in real life? Never, that's how often. In real life, 
 dead people decompose, people don't explode when hit and you don't get into the army if you can 
 only see things twenty feet or closer to you.
  
  The other half of the game is the tactical part, which is part of the empires expansion. Basically, 
 you make choices about what items and weapons your officers carry, where to attack, improving items, 
 replenishing your officers' armies etc. Nothing special, but it does the job, and it's probably 
 enough to rope in the strategy people, but it's not even close to redeeming he game as a whole.
 
  
  Before I finish, I'd like to level a few other criticisms at the game; the sound in general is 
 probably the worst in any game, ever. The lines that officers come out with are non-sensical; 'I'm 
 going to go pound on an enemy' is just a small example of a line recycled every battle multiple 
 times. The sounds are all the same in battle, from the whooshing of something to the grunting of 
 people that get hit ('Hi, I'm an officer, and I grunt in the SAME BLOODY WAY every single time 
 I get hit, whether it be an arrow to the groin or a sword the size of a small country breaking 
 my head in two') . not that they show any other sign of being hit; the officers simply lean back 
 and go with the flow, safe in the knowledge that they'll be reincarnated several times before the 
 battle finishes.
  
  The music is above average, for this game. Not that's it's great, good, or even passable. It's 
 one of three tunes every menu screen, two of which are rock music which doesn't fit in even slightly 
 with the ancient china setting, and one is a whistly-type thing that was apparently meant to sound 
 authentic or something, but comes across as being plain pretentious.
  
  Overall, this game is downright terrible in almost every aspect... it would nearly be tolerable 
 as an xbox live arcade download if it were just the strategy part, but you can't even skip battles 
 as the game forces you to play through the same thing over and over again... the fact that the 
 series has had so many instalments before it makes it all the more inexcusable that it's that bad... 
 it's not bad on a Big Rigs scale, but just plain lame through and through... don't buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 09231991
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 28, 2008 2:31 pm PT
Review:  Dynasty Warriors is definitely a dying breed in gaming and its sad but this game definitely is 
 a good step-up in the series. The game's tactical decisions add to the gameplay and make you think 
 a lot about what would be better, defending this base or attacking that one. The game's Empire 
 mode on a normal difficulty setting should be around 10 to 12 hours. the game allows you to also 
 play as any character in the game and also has a neat RPG, leveling up system to make your guys 
 stronger and provide them with stronger weapons. The game's empire mode allows you to follow an 
 actual scenario or a free-mode. Scenario is actual story mode stuff where guys will be placed at 
 certain spots (always the same place) and you choose one free spot and make your empire there. 
 Free mode is where you choose any province you want, make your empire there and all other provinces 
 will be randomly put under the control of other characters. In order to complete either mode, you 
 can choose from several goals that need to be met in order to beat it. Overall, this game is definitely 
 good and shouldn't be passed up by any DW fan or any action fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamecubedave000
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 22, 2008 8:06 pm PT
Review:  Well i bit, and i bit hard.
  
  This game in now way looks like a 360 game. Nothing about this game is revolutionary. Graphics 
 are ancient, but the game controls well.
  
  This game is like any other dynasty warrior game right? Well your kinda wrong because the whole 
 "empires" thing kinda works for me because im a fan of strategy, which this game requires in the 
 game mode empire.
  
  The whole dissapointment about this game is there is that it doesnt support Xbox live in no way.
 
  
  There are a lot of characters to choose from and they are unique. Starting weapons are a big dissapointment 
 but later in the game you can unlock better ones with longer combos and more damage.
  
  The items in the game are what you expect. The horses are not new in anyway. 
  
  Regardless 
 i think this game is still worth playing and buying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lilclown123
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jan 13, 2008 9:05 am PT
Review:  This game change's a little tiny bit everytime they make a another in the Dynasty warriors series 
 for the good but when they do that they forget to put in the good stuff from the past series. In 
 my opionion the dynasty warriors series was at its peak on the third game (PS2) and since then they 
 have added in a few minor changes and taken out the things we all used to love about the game. For 
 example now you cant play a simple 1 vs 1 death match its all pointless challanges like knocking 
 people off a bridge when youve got your ffriends over and your gona wana face each other not do 
 that crap.
  
  Secondly the graphics on number 3 (ps2) were probably better than this game considering that this 
 is higher on in the series and on a next gen console.
  
  And thirdly on muber 3 everyone had there own set of moves and combos
  now everyone basiclly 
 hass the same charge attacks which will make the game get extremly boring.+u can complete it in 
 1-2 hours.
  
  Lastly i hate the fact that you start with all the charaters unlock and the charater builed system 
 is a hek of a lot worse.
  
  But enogh of the negatives the good points are that its a fun game that will have u interested 
 for about the first time round you play it and well nothin else really. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: king_bobo
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 5, 2008 10:54 pm PT
Review:  It's a plain and simple well known fact that pretty much all of the dynasty warriors games are 
 basically the same, except for a few updates. That is, of course, excluding this one. Whether it's 
 the strategy and card-system or the new 'capturing bases' that's in this one, you're bound to like 
 it if you're a fan of the dynasty warriors series.
  Graphically, it is true that this game doesn't push the Xbox 360 to it's full potential, but then 
 again neither do a lot of Japan-made arcade 360 games, especially ones where there's loads of enemies 
 and it has co-op (i. e. Earth Defence Force) . The main difference if the fact that the game's render 
 distance is a lot further and quite often you'll be surrounded by upto 6 times what you might have 
 expected from previous games.
  In terms of achievements, the game, like several from Japan, are a little screwed up in terms of 
 difficulty. It doesn't matter what difficulty or options you play on, you can still get all of 
 the achievements, which achievement whores, will be pleased to hear, isn't very difficult. The 
 thing that makes this installation of Dynasty Warriors so much better than the rest is the way 
 in which there are 250 'playable' officers in the game. Although it has to be said that about 70% 
 of them (if not more) are the generic leiutenant-types from previous games it's still cool to have 
 the option. 
  The campaigns are different also in the way that you start off with a small area and choose where 
 you want to station your officers and lieutenants and where you want to invade. As the game progresses, 
 you gain access to more and more 'cards' that are basically options to do as a ruler. There are 
 around 80 of them, and all of them can be used to a greater of lesser effect. 
  For instance, if you know you're about to face an extremely powerful enemy, you might want to use 
 your moves (which you gain more of as you gain more territory) to 'reinforce' an officer (give 
 1000 or 2000 troops to them) or 'replenish' give a certain amount to all officers. Naturally, you 
 have to use money to do this, and different things cost different amounts of money. For instance 
 hiring a group of bandits to use as a tactic only costs 100 gold, as they aren't very useful, whereas 
 creating a short alliance with someone would cost 400. 
  Quite often allies will ask for assistance in invading or defending, and if you choose to do so, 
 you will gain experience from the battle and gold from your ally. As you take territory, you can 
 'capture' officers who you can station and use however you may wish to. There are other ways of 
 getting officers that are also effective, for instance 'Search Wide' where someone will search 
 all areas for an officer for you, who will join you if they do. If you have an officer you can 
 use them in battle, or use them to assist you.
  Additionally, the battlefield gameplay has changed in terms of there being no cinematic sequences 
 and far les 'traps' than before. Despite this, other officers will use their ability to their advantage 
 either temporarally improving their troops (e. g. improved speed) or doing something to affect you 
 or your bases directly (e. g taunt) . Taking bases is quite good, and is essential for winning a 
 level, as it makes it more difficult for enemies to get to your base and eventually lures the enemy 
 commander into the level, where if you defeat him or take their base, you win the level. Surprisingly 
 the AI officers on your team are decent enough to defend your bases or even occassionally take 
 some for you, which is a really good feature. Sometimes enemies will invade your territory and 
 if you choose not to defend it will basically always be taken. Defending isn't very difficult if 
 you keep your main base defended and just run to the other end of the level wher you can kill the 
 officer. 
  Although not a great deal of the 'battle' levels have changed with this version of Dynasty Warriors, 
 the Empire building alongside the to-be-expected co-op and Free Play modes, means that even after 
 gaining all of the achievements you'll be wanting to come back for more, even if the desire isn't 
 immediate. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: riplike
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 8, 2007 11:47 am PT
Review:  I would say it's good but there's one part that I think needs improvement. But first, the good 
 parts. The graphics are better than some and is OK. The game play is great and there's a lot of 
 action to it too. But, here comes the bad part. It the compilation of the empire mode. It just 
 way too much to do. Like, there barely any thing to do. And when you are done, you don't know what 
 to do. Story mode is OK but I think it's pretty much worth the money. That's all I think of it 
 so far and I played it for a while now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ArturiusMaxwell
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 6, 2007 7:19 am PT
Review:  I have followed this series for a while. I owned 2 upwards but the were stolen with a majority 
 of my DVD's and other assorted games when my house was brocken into. It is not a new twist in the 
 game not even enthusiastically unique but it offers more than the previous games in that the graphics 
 are better and you can actualy kill Lu Bu with a character that isn't supported by an entire army!
 
  
  I played this five or six times and made a barrage of characters to go along with it. The occupy 
 and settle theme is nice and the seasonal disasters are a good touch as well. I personally think 
 that this game should branch out of china itself and into the south, north, east and west to include 
 a range of countries that suite the characters they have inserted into what we now assume is fuedal 
 china. I just want to say that I don't know much about the country directly but respect the people 
 and its past so nothing said here is racialy slurred! Just an opinion about the game, made by westerners 
 lol
  
  Aside from the strange range of characters you can get it is a good game, the weapons are nice 
 and the attacks like other games are pretty standard but challenges from the AI and the missions 
 are stepped up. Not to say that the AI is better or harder just that it will make your battle harder, 
 whereas before the peasent pretty much just stood there this time round they attack more often 
 and do more damage and the AI officers are quicker to react to you moving about the map rather 
 than the "I am here and wont move unless I am nearly dead" tact the game used to have.
  
  I highly recomend you buy this game, even if you dont play it or hate the game just buy it so that 
 the programmers can get the money together to make a new and better one! 
  
  I give this game, as I would with all the others a full 10 out of 10 no matter what minor faults 
 it has or what any one else says! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dartharel
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 13, 2007 5:01 pm PT
Review:  Along came dynasty warriors 5: empires. i didnt play the 4 version of empires, so this was an accepted 
 change to the tedium of dynasty warriors. i loved how many unlockable there are in thsi game and 
 its that, that makes the liefspan so long. Normal dynasty warriors (DW) games featured the same 
 storyline and characters in the same situations but this one allows you to build an elite team 
 of all of the best ones and send them into one, catastrophic battle. the troop count for each general 
 can reach 200,000 at max level, but i dont understand this because there is in no way that many 
 men on the battlefield, if there was your xbox would commit suicide. There are one or two new maps 
 i believe but not much to class it as a new game. as i understand, you have access to level 5 and 
 even level 6 weapons, however ive never seen these so dont trust me fully on that. the game also 
 allows you to play as any named officer, even those ones that have no unique appearance, so there 
 are more styles of fighting to explore. the strategy period on the main game work well as you can 
 forge alliances and declare wars and stuff.
  
  For some reason though the game does not exceed the chi bi part of dynasty warriors, meaning such 
 periods later on like wu zhang plains (Or whatever it is) are missed out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jonzilla_basic
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 28, 2007 4:00 am PT
Review:  I have been a major fan of the dynasty warrior games do i had to get this when i got my 360.
  
  
  Graphics: The graphics are nothing to brag about. What you saw on the Xbox version is what 
 your going to get on the 360 version in my opinion. Really nothing special. I am not a fan of the 
 Blur lines around some of the bosses and enemies. I dont know what that is all about.
  
  
  Sound: Sound is just the same as the Xbox version as well. I was hoping for some huge crowd 
 yelling noises and lots of fighting noises but thats not in the game. Some of the music is cool 
 and some of it is annoying. You are able to turn it off. 2 things that really disapointed me about 
 this game in the sound department was the took out the foriegn voice acting which was SO cool for 
 DW5 for the Xbox. Second, they must have thought that this was cool but they decided to stick in 
 Swearing. What you will hear allot is DA*M, know one is defending the base . Which is Very Stupid.
 
  
  
  Gameplay: Gameplay is Amazing!! I love whipping on a thousand guys. Its great fun. The fact that 
 there are over 200 Guys/Girls is awesome as well. There is the jump in and kick some butt action 
 mode and there is the Empire mode. I am a huge fan of Nobunagas Ambition (nes/snes) and what they 
 have done here is taken the Nobunago side of things and mixed them with the DW side of things and 
 you have this amazing game. its so much fun. Unlocking things is allot easier this time around. 
 With each region you take over you get the special item for that board and there are allot of special 
 items. Game play is excellent.
  
  
  Overall: Overall This game si allot of fun and a great addition and twist to the Dynasty world. 
 I cant wait for DW6 and hopefully they will keep the Empire mode to it as well. Get this game, 
 Its button Mashing to its finest!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: noambartouv
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 4, 2007 2:39 am PT
Review:  I got this game as a present and when i got i thought wow this looks like crap: Graphics aren't 
 good at all, environments are cheaply designed and i cant understand what to do and what is happening... 
 so i went to gamespot and read like 5 different walkthroughs and then when i finally understood 
 whats going on this game i started having fun! By the way if ure not palying Co-Op then the game 
 is really boring.
  So once u know the basics just conquer china and dont recruit all the generals that look the same! 
 get the unique ones!
  
  Now i play the game every time my cousin comes here, China shall be ours . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Raven4d8
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 21, 2007 7:36 am PT
Review:  Ever since the old Romance of the Three Kingdoms series as well. Huge fan of the ancient Chinese 
 histroy about this battle... and this game once again is the same as the last one. It is good this 
 game adds in a few different elements with the whole empire mode and bring in the Romance of the 
 Three Kingdoms feel of controlling the different provinces but BUT i still think to make this game 
 a huge success what they should do is bring both games together more.
  
  Have more of the recuriting people and hiring soldiers and finding different weapons and building 
 up defenses and farming the land and stuff like that in the game. More RTK in there along with 
 the battles from Dynasty Warriors would make for a very enjoyable game i think.
  
  I give this game a 7.5/10 i still love the series of these games and i hope they continue making 
 them well into the future.
  
  Long live Xu Haung!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bababadong
Rating: 7.4
Date: Jul 26, 2007 9:36 am PT
Review:  Dynasty Warriors is a decent series that's been going on for a while. This is the fifth installment 
 in the series. (Just stating the obvious) But through those games, comes the same routine game 
 play. Here's a little recap of the series. You're in a Chinese war against other nations to take 
 over land. Your mission is to ally, trade, or defeat the other countries around you. As you progress 
 you gain more land, which also lets you gain more armies and new leaders. You play the game as 
 a single leader in the beginning and hack-and-slash you're way through the enemy lines, get to 
 their capital, and defeat their ruler to win their territory. Once that's done, you get their leader 
 as a playable person in future missions. Once you take control of all the opposing regions, you 
 win that section of the game. Each section has a different story line or basis of playing. Every 
 time you take a turn in the game, you get to do certain side strategies that will either help or 
 hurt your people. You can trade, boost, level, place, and hurt your leaders and armies. Now, through 
 all this, the game play is actually kind of dull. Through the whole game, and I mean the whole 
 game, you button mash you're way to their leader. Their may be a few moderately challenging combos 
 to perform to take enemies out with, but it really doesn't require too much strategy besides choosing 
 which base to attack first. For a person like me, I personally don't care about the mindless game 
 play (Let's me enjoy the game while watching TV at the same time) , but if you're a person who has 
 to be into the game play to get into the game, don't get this game. It will be one of the least 
 exciting things you'll play. But if not, I would suggest Gameflying this game. It's definitely 
 not a buy-worthy game, but it does have some redeeming qualities that may strike the mindless gamer's 
 appeal. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Negimakun
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jul 9, 2007 8:06 am PT
Review:  Well.. I hate to say it.. But this game is EXTREME in the repeatitive category. The fighting is 
 the same.. and once you play the Empire part, it gets repeatitive. I have always been a fan of 
 the series.. but this is getting old. Good thing they are makeing a new one with Gundams n. n Which 
 should be on the side of the screen, But in the end it will porbablly be the same thing with diffrent 
 models to be used over and over. Check out Dynasty Warriors: Gundam, if you are a fan of either 
 shows, it will surely please you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hahaleo1
Rating: 7.9
Date: Jun 19, 2007 6:14 pm PT
Review:  This new episode of Dynasty Warriors is based on the famous Chinese novel which is partially based 
 on the history of the three kingdoms splited in China. I was born in China so i might enjoy or 
 appreciate the game more since that i know who i have in my army and who i want to get. The graphic 
 was decent, the gameplay was rather simple and u can get tired of playing it before long, but the 
 empire mode made the game more enjoyable and playable. The lack of online features and the simplicity 
 of the sound of this game separated it from the most outstanding games. The unlockables, however, 
 mostly the artworks are great as long as you used faq to help you to unlock them. The gamerscore 
 achievements were not hard at all, made it valuable to those who just want gamerscores outta of 
 games. Overall, the game is very decent and is worth playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -Advent-
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 12, 2007 4:49 pm PT
Review:  While Dynasty Warriors 5 Empires seems a heck of a lot like the rest of the DW games, there is 
 one big difference. Empire mode. Of course it is an enormous addition (it's included in the title..) 
 but once you really dig deep, it is the same game. Pick your character, pick your place, and kill 
 stuff. Conquering lands is quite fun though, the strategy, economics, and diplomatic additions 
 make DW5 much more interesting than its predecessors. Also, the edit character option also adds 
 a little bit of flash because you can have your very own fighter! Yes it is very cool but after 
 doing the same thing for about two hours, it doesn't add too much to it. I will admit however, 
 I am a hack-and-slash fan so I could put up with playing this game until the end, but I know many.. many 
 people will become bored of the repetition. If you have a friend who could play this game with 
 you then it is definitely worth a rent, considering I spent about 90% of my time on this game with 
 a friend of mine. Overall, it is a source of entertainment for a short period, but the few innovations 
 that it does contain don't make up for the lack of depth and same old combat system. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SergantCross
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jun 4, 2007 12:29 pm PT
Review:  The good: More battle scenarios are exquisite and more action has splitted into the place you will 
 never give in.
  
  The bad: Non other modes like challenge mode can be useful or like edit more than 10 officers.
 
  
  Gameplay: Seems like in Vol 2 it is kind of like morrowind but this game does change everything 
 and every officers get the same but a little good moves as from the leitenuants,
  
  Graphics: Look awesome and minding people like this offends every Dynasty warrior game with poop 
 graphics well your wrong, the minds must be brainwashed and the graphics of the characters look 
 astonishing as it is from other battle fields even more on the world action stories in empire mode.
 
  
  Sound: The dead action of private troops and any other dynasty warriors are perfect and no matter 
 what you can argue about it. This game is like the game i'm looking foward to the best game ever.
 
  
  Value: It is ok i suppose but it looked a little too boring using attacking buttons in 30 minutes 
 at the same time.
  
  tilt: If you think history is fake for this? Think again watch Romance of the 3 kingdoms and your 
 mind will change, so this game is absolutly amazing and relvolutionary. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Elite29
Rating: 6.9
Date: May 20, 2007 3:22 pm PT
Review:  Everyone knows the Dynasty Warriors franchise is about falling in love with one button on the controller 
 for a long time. Most of these games are pure button-mashers that get old very quickly. On top 
 of that, Koei seems intent on putting out the same game once a year and slapping a new cover art 
 on the box. Obviously this has angered some long time fans of the series and the games have fallen 
 under harsh critical reviews. While 'Dynasty Warriors 5 Empires' is a fun game for awhile, the 
 strategy elements can't save the game from wrecking the 'X' button on your 360 controller.
  
  If you have ever played one of these games before, then you will know what to expect here in 
 the 'Battle' stages. The combat is mindless, stupid, and has some of the worst A. I. I have ever 
 seen in a videogame. The graphics are even more insulting. This is a PS2 game running in your Xbox 
 360. The music is terrible (why are we listening to crappy guitar-rock?!!) &amp; the voice acting 
 is even worse. And why they took out most of the storyline sequences, I will never know. The game 
 is essentially battle after battle with no storyline driving you along whatsoever. So why is this 
 game even worth playing at all?
  
  In 'Empire' mode, you get to add some strategy elements to the mix. It's clear Koei is pretty good 
 at this part of the game. In between battles, you can do a bunch of things that are found in some 
 strategy games. You can manage your troops, recruit new officers, build up the defenses of your 
 territories, please and/or anger the citizens under your rule, uprgrade your weapons, create new 
 items, hire bandits or sorcerers to fight along side you in battle, &amp; other fun diversions 
 that will be WAY more fun than anything you do on the battlefield. Sure it's not the deepest strategy 
 game around (not even close, actually) , but it's a nice change of pace from the idiotic combat.
 
  
  Even with the fun strategy side of 'Dynasty Warriors 5 Empires', the game becomes boring after 
 awhile and then it feels like a grind just to finish the game. Obviously when a game loses it's 
 fun-factor , the appeal to play the game disappears. It's too bad Koei continues to try to make 
 these button-mashing games when they obviously have the potential to make a great strategy title. 
 Even the 'Romance Of The Three Kingdoms' games had their moments. But like with that series, Koei 
 keeps putting out lazy expansions instead of actually making a better and NEW game. I am hoping 
 that someday they will figure it all out. Until then, I think I will give my 'X' button a rest. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cammonag
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 8, 2007 4:34 am PT
Review:  Dynasty Warriors Empires is just like every other dynasty warriors game , but with one difference 
 , tactics . And this time no story line , whats up with that? i thought one of the best parts of 
 the dynasty warriors franchise was the storyline , but whatever .
  You control a force in the beginning which has 3-6 officers and controls 1 25th of China , you 
 must take your force to battle and kill enemy generals to gain more land . The closest thing this 
 game gets to a story is the empire mode where you can relive a tactical version of the classic 
 musou mode battles eg. Hu Lao Gate , Yellow Turban Rebellion and Guan Du .
  Like all Dynasty Warriors games , this will keep you occupied for a long time and the achievements 
 in it are easy to unlock . Again , this game i would not pay more than &pound;20 for and if you 
 did , Omega Force and Koei have ripped you off .
  I would avoid this game and wait for Dynasty Warriors 6 which will completely kick ass if its online 
 .
  Also i couldnt really rate this for sound as its mostly people going eew eeh and aah . Apart from 
 that i liked the music bits 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sergeant-Wither
Rating: 6.5
Date: May 6, 2007 8:44 am PT
Review:  Don't let the cover fool you, this isn't some fast paced 3rd Century war game where you fight side 
 by side with your men. This is pretty much the opposite. Dynasty Warriors 5: Empires is a strategy 
 game. It gives you control of a small area and now you have to conquer all of Asia. So what's new?
 
  
  First of all the storyline of the game is almost however you want it to be. People change as you 
 switch roles of commander and strategist and hire new Lieutenants and Generals. Since the storyline 
 is so varied the idea of the game should be expressed. It is a conquest kind of game but what's 
 so cool about this game is that all the people you can control were real people of their own dynasties. 
 The generals and lieutenants were real people and now they are in your hands like human chest pieces. 
 If you decide to go into Empire Mode this is where you will get some kind of storyline. You select 
 an area and control the officers there in order to take over neighboring areas. Winning can gain 
 you money, officers, land, and new areas to produce new items. Depending on your settings will 
 affect what you do to win and lose from taking out the emporers to defeating each area on its own 
 for winning; and the same for losing. Other than that how things go are up to you. You can form 
 alliances and then annul them to strike an area while it's weak or busy or try and force the surrender 
 of all your enemies. Either way, the story can and probably will change after each turn.
  
  Ok now to get on to the gameplay. In a way it sucks. There are no real tutorials and the game is 
 a basically a try-and-fail kind of game. If you start out on Novice than things should be ok at 
 first, until you are being attacked. In battle just try and take all the bases and defeat all the 
 officers before the time runs out. Also the camera seems to be back in the 90's style, which means 
 its fixed and only moves if you turn in a circle (while walking because it will sometimes show 
 you walking towards yourself and not be able to see what's in front of you. At first you'll start 
 working out the attack combos which are a little easy to use at first but will get longer the more 
 powerful your weapon becomes. There are some finer parts to the gameplay though. The different 
 types of tactics and strategies and the politics in the game can make a simple strategist happy, 
 although hard to grasp at first, but the more advanced strategists will soon find the system a 
 little boring and choose to issue there own orders. The graphics in the game aren't real nice. 
 In fact, there may be some N64 games with better graphics. The graphics aren't all that important 
 in the game but with the 2D characters popping up to talk it seems pretty lame at times. The game 
 is in 3D but with the restrictions on where you can go and the camera make it more like a sort 
 of 3D comic book.
  There is a good part to the graphics though. The combinations and attacks move fluently and look 
 great, especially the musuo attacks and the true musuo attacks. Since the game is mostly a strategy 
 game the graphics aren't the most important thing in the world but there was definitely more to 
 be expected. And it is kinda sad that the introduction cinematic is so much better than the actual 
 graphics and gameplay.
  
  The music in the game is of course sort of a Japanese war kind of honor thing. Although it was 
 to be expected it actually blends in very well with the surroundings but the constant voices that 
 come up on screen are annoying enough to make me press mute and then break my remote. All in all 
 the music goes well with the gameplay and are sometimes a good way of telling if you are doing 
 good in your campaign or if you should quit while your behind.
  
  All in all the game is an okay game. It doesn't bring too much into strategy or graphics but for 
 the simple players like me, can get into the game and have some fun. I would say if you are not 
 sure you want to get the game try it over at a friends house or rent it first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Geitsau
Rating: 4.9
Date: May 3, 2007 2:14 am PT
Review:  Gameplay:
  You assume control of one of China's many warriors during the Three Kingdoms period. But the twist 
 to the Empires series is that there's almost no story, nothing fun ever happens during the fights, 
 and nearly every battle feels just the same. And this time around there's not even any versus modes! 
 What gives? The versus mode is the most entertaining part about the Dynasty Warriors Series! During 
 the battles you assume direct control of whichever officer you choose to lead the battle, and it 
 turns into a hack-and-slash game. Graphics:
  The cinematics are great as usual, but the rest of the game looks like an improved Xbox-game, definitively.
 
  
  Sound: The regular Dynasty Warriors music, though this time around you can choose from nearly 100 
 different tracks from previous games to listen to in battle, which is a nostalgic plus.
  
  Value:
  There is a co-op mode which adds some value, and there's a number of different scenarios. 
 They could have been added some value with a better use of achievements, because they're simply 
 too easy to unlock.
  
  Tilt:
  I've been a fan of the Dynasty Warriors series since Dynasty Warriors 2, and I truly hate the Empires 
 pervertion. It takes all the element of fun out of the Dynasty Warriors series, namely enganging, 
 unique battles, a compelling story mode for each character and a well-made versus mode. I was so 
 pissed off when I found out that they was bringing this game to the 360 here in the West instead 
 of the regular Dynasty Warriors 5.
  
  Let me break it down for you. The difference between Empires and the regular DW is:
  
  No versus 
 mode
  No events in battles whatsoever
  No duels
  No background stories for the maps, though there is an encyclopedia part
  No story mode for the 
 characters
  Just a stupid, horribly bad turn-based strategy part before the battles.
  
  Bottom line is: Wait for Dynasty Warriors 6, which is going to kick ass. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cajiman
Rating: 7.2
Date: Apr 24, 2007 9:43 am PT
Review:  the 360 version of this game is fun yes but it looks like a ps2 game and it had might aswell be 
 backwards compatible the bump mapping is terrible. the charachters look better and you can fit more 
 on the screen i do like it but its the worst excuse for a 360 game yet. the only people i would 
 advise to get this are fans of the series or people addicted to gamerscore the sounds are pretty 
 much the same apart from when they are talking those sounds are hut hut agh agh and that is just 
 so bad it makes me want to cry i have got 980 gamerscore off this game and i suck at games most 
 of the time the game is cheap though which is good so if you want it check whsmith 
::::::

::::::
UserName: agubna
Rating: 8.2
Date: Apr 17, 2007 8:53 pm PT
Review:  This game is pretty much like the other ones. Except that the story mode is the empire mode where 
 you take over areas in the map. There are 25 area and you win when you get them all. There are 
 a lot of characters you can be and I think that this game is very fun. The only thing is that there 
 is no tutorial or anything so it took me a little bit to find out exactly what to do and how to 
 do it, but once I found out how to play, its really fun. The graphics are ok. There not the worst 
 but their not the best. The sayings get really old too. But if you liked the other dynaasty warriors 
 games, you should definetly buy this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: poisonfire
Rating: 8.2
Date: Apr 9, 2007 5:32 am PT
Review:  Koei never stops making these games and they are almost all he same but can be quite good for a 
 few hours.
  
  GAMEPLAY:
  The same hack and slash action as always with updates on characters, areas, weapons and intrerface. 
 This is a empires version so as always on empire you mode you have a map of china with a date of 
 around 200 AD (changes for the senarios you play) and you have you unify the land. You can create 
 you own hero to play or select a force that is already there, such as wu, shu and wei. You have 
 senarios to play and at first you only have the yellow turban rebbelion and a gathering of heroes 
 ( All areas have randomly placed rulers and officers) To unlock the next you have to do the senario 
 you start with and then the next ect. To complete one you just need to take over the whole of china 
 every singe time but you can be asked for special battles, 1 for each senario for example a war 
 to wipe out the yellow turbans.
  
  GRAPHICS:
  Not all that great but work quite well on cut-scenes and are OK on the battlefield, it also manages 
 quite a few on screen enemys. The camera does not have any controls and can be annoying (you have 
 to block to centre it) . Weapons have good details and there is alot of weopons to get.
  
  SOUND:
  Annoying, The repetative sound of attacking and the screams of 'victims' of you 500 KO 
 count. The officers also say alot of stuff about 3 times every battle but most generals have induvidual 
 voices.
  
  OVERALL:
  A good game for fans of hack and slash games and the seris. Not bad game as i got it for &pound;1 
 because i got a voucher on my Birthday. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WisconsinBatman
Rating: 7.1
Date: Mar 29, 2007 11:44 am PT
Review:  Here is the long and the short of this game.
  
  Not much for innovation. Not much for plot. Not much for variety of game play.
  
  Just a whole 
 bunch of mindless button mashing which strangely is fun.
  
  I'm not much for playing games which require absolutely no thinking, but every now and then, I 
 just want to lounge in my Barcalounger and do absolutely no thinking, but have a feeling of accomplishment.
 
  
  If you feel this way sometimes, this game is great for that. You don't have to plan your attack, 
 you don't have to even care who you fight as. All you have to worry about is if you have enough 
 charge in your controller's battery to get you through 10 minutes of constantly hitting the (A) 
 button.
  
  There isn't anything that stands out for this game except this. There are multiple scenarios in 
 the game, but I have no idea why. I haven't seen anything that sets them apart from each other 
 except a slightly different starting map.
  
  The voice acting is so horrid, it's hilarious! During the battles, you have people chiming in saying 
 ridiculous things like, you are a stalwart hero, because I knocked out (with my four foot long 
 sword) 50 opponents.
  
  Don't buy this game for a substance rich experience. Now that it is priced low, it is defiantly 
 worth it for the person who wants to kill some time and have brainless fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tto55619
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 25, 2007 2:58 am PT
Review:  When i got this game, i expected the usual fighting, battles and war that makes dynasty warriors 
 so fun, this game adds a strategic feel to the game, and although it is complicated at first, becomes 
 easy to use and fun.
  One of my favourite features is the ability to create your own officer, and customize him with 
 looks, ability, weapons, even his damn voice!
  I definately recommend this game.
  
  - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 
 - - - - - - - - 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jiruto95
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 2, 2007 9:35 pm PT
Review:  I'd say that this game is just right, although it lost some of its flash and substance in Empire 
 Mode. It's a nice touch, but it won't live up to Story Mode in DW5. The models got a little face 
 lift to next-gen graphics. It's also nice to know that you can play as those generic officer models, 
 I love that idea. A DW Empires game is not complete with Edit Mode. It has a wide array of choices 
 and weapons, you won't be disappointed. I'm a sucker for the classics, but I'm always open to the 
 new things. This investment was worth it, overall it's a great game to get addicted to, I give 
 it a 4, out of 5. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rizer
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 12, 2007 9:05 am PT
Review:  Dynasty Warriors 5 is pretty much the same game it's always been, choose your favorite warrior 
 and wade through hundreds of thousands of armed chinese soldiers to reach the big man on campus 
 and kick his or her butt. It's simple, but sweet. You don't need much skill at all for this game 
 once you get the ball rolling but the action pact adventure of it all will have you and your kids 
 visiting and revisiting it over and over.... at least unitl the next Dynasty Warrior title comes 
 out.
  
  STORYLINE:
  A Dynasty Warriors game just wouldn't be a Dynasty Warriors game without a confusing story and 
 cheesey diologue. They could have improved it over time, I guess, but somehow it would be just 
 wrong. It has become a cliche to turn this game on and laughed at the voiceactors. Without the 
 cornyness of it all... it just would not be Dynasty Warriors.
  
  As expected the tradition of bad diologue and confusing one-liners was continued in this addition, 
 but the concept of a solid story... If Dynasty Warriors ever intended to have one... was almost disappointingly 
 thrown out the window due to the free-for-all map-like structure in the way DW5: Empires was set 
 up. Campains are set up as chapters and, because the player can literally play as anyone in the 
 game (and thats a LOT of characters, not includeing ten that you can create on your own) . If you 
 play a chapter as the wrong character or characters, you can totally miss the overall story. It 
 doesn't matter much in a Dynasty Warrior game, but for those looking for that laugh they might 
 get frustrated searchng for it.
  
  GAMEPLAY:
  The game play is pretty basic, not to hard, easy to learn, and expecially fun if two players co-op. 
 It's a little more than disappointing that there isn't any online capability for this game yet, 
 but chances are that you'll still play it over and over.
  
  You can begin by ether creating your custom character first or just diving strait into the Campains 
 or Empire mode . I suggest creating your custom character (s) first because this is the ony way 
 you can add the Broadsword and Rapier weapon styles in the mix, when you play the campains later. 
 You can also copy the styles of already created chracters, but this isn't really that nessasry 
 unless you feel like having a Lu Bu clone with a fro running around. There aren't many choices 
 in customizing your character's looks, but, like I said, there is a fro hairsytyle option. Hard 
 to pass that up and not use it for a laugh.
  
  Anyway the real meat of the game begins in Empire mode the goal being to start a campain as any 
 of the territories (even the ones you can make up yourself) and take over the rest through brute 
 force and, in VERY rare cases, actual cunning. How the stratigy part of this works as a whole is 
 entirely up to you due to the downtime between battles and the way you set your prefrences in a 
 campian's begining. Most of the downtime can be spent organizing troops, upgrading items, hiring 
 mercinaries looking for work (including your custom characters) and making alliances . It's fun 
 to mess with but most of it really isn't needed until you change the settings to hard or beyond. 
 After getting all that stratagy stuff out of the way you proceed and can invade another territory 
 of your choice... or defend... or whatever... it's all pretty much the same thing.
  
  GRAPHICS:
  I was expecting a lot more. It looks just like the second gen platform verison. It 
 doesn't even look like they tried to beef it up for the third gen concules, like the 360.
  
  SOUNDS: The music wasn't that great. I expected that the voice acting would be just as terrifically 
 bad as it usually was, it was quality bad voiceacting, but I thought that the would try a little 
 harder on the music the music seemed recycled. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: C_Blade
Rating: 6.8
Date: Feb 13, 2007 1:45 am PT
Review:  DW5: Empires is definitely a great, ambitious idea. I love the set up of everything they've done, 
 finally putting another decent spin on the franchise that seems to quickly be losing steam. I liked 
 DW4: Empires, so I expected this to be so much better.
  
  In some ways, the game is better. It takes you through several eras to start in, there are more 
 cards, a few more generals, and more settings you can mess with to make the game play just how 
 you want. Yet, sadly, the problem is with the gameplay. It still gets stale after the first 15-20 
 hours unless you've never played any KOEI game before. I used to love the simple, mindless DW hack'n'slash 
 thing, but it doesn't do it for me anymore.
  
  A nice addition that I've been wanting is that they added the ability to give orders to your generals. 
 The sad part is that 60% of the time, they don't listen to you. It could be because certain generals 
 are arrogant and don't take orders well, but I never read anything about that. Maybe if they explained 
 that, it would be understandable and another twist the game throws at you. At this point, though, 
 it's just an annoyance.
  
  Building your own squad and taking out the other guy's is fun, but like the caption says, there 
 is no substance after that. It's not as one-sided as Dynasty Warriors 5, so I guess it's a start. 
 But KOEI has quite a ways to go before this becomes a superb game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ghost_Face
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 14, 2007 3:52 pm PT
Review:  This was my first foray with the Dynasty Warriors series. I'm a fan of Koei's Romance of the Three 
 Kingdoms titles so I decided I'd finally give this series a try. I was mildly surprised with my 
 first play-through. The game had more of a strategy feel to it than what I initially thought and 
 was led to believe from sources I had read on the series. Being a fan of Romance of the Three Kingdoms, 
 the strategy element of that series is something I love playing around with; so this facet of Dynasty 
 Warriors was indeed welcome. You can quickly jump into the game and start playing. The learning 
 curve is not that deep. There are some elements that you'll need to read the manual to master. 
 The game can be played without those maneuvers/elements, but to truly master the game and have 
 an easier time playing and finishing; you'll need to utilize all the abilities and skills available. 
 The game gives you the ability to choose different time periods and rulers in the Three Kingdoms 
 lore. My personal favorite is Ma Teng which led to the discovery of one of the most powerful generals 
 in the game, Ma Chao! This man is a beast and is another reason why the game grew on me so much. 
 If you find someone that you particularly enjoy playing with/as, you're time spent with the game 
 will definitely be well spent and time will fly by as you kill hordes of enemy soldiers. The graphics 
 are nothing special and don't utilize on the graphics power of the 360. While there are large groups 
 of enemies on the screen, you'll see that a lot of the character models are repeated and only the 
 enemy generals are really unique in their appearance. There are some instances of slow down when 
 the action is particularly intense with a large amount of characters onscreen. Some generals and 
 their abilities are carbon copies of each other. Some generals are extremely underpowered, while 
 others are total monsters on the battlefield. I guess this is to simulate the superior war-like 
 abilities some generals have over others. Once you find a general like I did, you'll probably play 
 the majority of your battles with that character. The enemy AI is not particularly smart. Some 
 of the generals will disregard being attacked by your fellow generals and soldiers to team up on 
 defeating you. Situations like this prove to be particularly hairy but somewhat unrealistic. If 
 you find yourself in a situation where the computer generals are ganging up on you; no matter how 
 powerful your player character is, you'll probably have to reload your last save. The generals 
 under your command sometimes fail to follow the commands you assign to them. You tell them to guard 
 a specific base and they head off in another direction. You want them to gang up on a specific 
 general or unit and they sometimes have their own agenda to follow. Situations likethat can provide 
 for some frustrating battles when the key to victory hinges on one of your units providing support 
 in a crucial time frame. Even with situations like that, the game never really made me want to 
 quit or hindered my ability to enjoy the game. With this title being available for a while now, 
 so you can get it for a bargain price. If you considered playing this game in the past, I'd have 
 to give it a hearty recommendation. You could play this game over an extended weekend if renting 
 is your thing, but the game provides a lot of replayability in that you can choose to play through 
 with multiple generals/factions and time periods. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BlackBaldwin
Rating: 6.7
Date: Jan 12, 2007 8:29 am PT
Review:  The Dynasty Warriors series has always taken alot of heat in every game Koei has developed and 
 shipped out to the world. Me myself I'm a fan of these types of games I remember growing up and 
 picking up romance of the three kingdoms on the nintendo as well as sega and always imagined what 
 it woulda been like to march onto the battlefield and faced hundreds of armed men who knew amazing 
 martial arts technics. The first few Dynasty Warrior games I have picked up I have enjoyed no matter 
 their defects. But Dynasty Warriors 5 Empires, I have to say really disappointed me. I have gotten 
 use to the corny voices for the characters but for this game to be considered a next generation 
 game console I don't think so. The graphics are xbox style no improvement on them well unless your 
 a ps2 owner anyway. The part I usually enjoy the most about the dynasty warrior games was the different 
 stories and background info that the developers put into each game I have played. I saw none of 
 that in this game not to mention if your new to the series you find yourself wondering whats the 
 difference between each general and why they are fighting like hell to bring this land togather 
 so badly. Besides the faults I did find returning to the old age of romance of the three kingdoms 
 refreshing and amusing for awhile. But to justify that part for everything Koei threw out just 
 falls short. I think Fans Still dream of the day when Koei finally brings both sides togather in 
 perfect harmony but until that day comes lets just hope they put more effort into there games then 
 what they did in this one.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nic_Virgo
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jan 2, 2007 2:58 am PT
Review:  Dynasty warriors 5 (Empires) is probably the most gripping in the series of this favourite amongst 
 many button-pounding lovers.. the game this time round doesn't have the online function, referring 
 to the ranking password mode so you can compete with millions of other DW lovers out there for 
 the head prize of being no. 1 on the net tiers. that was the big disappointment for me. however 
 each part in the fantastic series has it's own special features and this time, empires brings a 
 taste of what many DW players have wished for including myself. the possibility of conquering and 
 managing your own territories. actually looking to be the ruler and not just a general on a horseback. 
 the improvement in the personalization aspect and also 2-player mode in both free mode and empire 
 mode definately got my eyes lit with excitement. this is a game you'd definately wanna have in 
 your collection if you're a DW warrior yourself and love the action pure Dynasty Style. Cheers 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DS-man
Rating: 7.6
Date: Dec 30, 2006 3:28 pm PT
Review:  Taken From The PS2 Version!.
  
  GOOD- All new system, better than ever; the same great gameplay folmular; capture more land in 
 2nd Empire game
  
  BAD- Same repetative ways; Same Story; same gameplay; same characters
  
  GAMEPLAY-
  The reason why Dynasty Warriors games are so awesome, the game brings hundreds 
 of onscreen friends and foes as you hack em all down, the combo in the game is same, even when 
 you gain levels, but you do earn extra combo limits so you can do em longer, Mulitplayer is also 
 great in these games seeing as you can work together
  
  GRAPHICS-
  The graphics are better than ever with more realistic backgrounds, tho the same charater moduals, 
 but they do have better looking outfits this time around
  
  SOUND-
  Dispite the games rubbish voice acting the background music is awesome, it has electic gitars, 
 wired in a medievil game but its still great
  
  WHY SHOULD I BUY THIS GAME?
  Why not?, it may be a botton mashing game but its realy addictive, i preffer empire games other 
 the XL's and the original series, just try it out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dolacide
Rating: 5.2
Date: Dec 19, 2006 2:35 am PT
Review:  When I first put this game into my 360, and powered it up, I played it once and hated it. After 
 a month I decided to try again, and it started to grow on me. Then after I saw all the options 
 available for strategy I thought I might actually like this game, but most of the options really 
 have no use, after just seeing what they do. Youll probably just use a few of the options throughout 
 multiple games, others youll never use after your initial time.
  
  And this brings up a big problem in this game, quantity over quality. Yes you have over two hundred 
 different playable characters, but most are just the same model with a different name and no matter 
 who you use it does not change the fighting at all. Open and large maps, which you have to run 
 around in, and if youre unlucky enough to not have a horse, this gets tedious. Hundreds of enemies 
 on screen at once, the grunt soldiers come across as more decoration than actually threatening. 
 And the A. I. on the ranked characters are just stupid. Im fighting in the enemies main base against 
 their leader, Im low on energy, so all I have to do is run out of the base he will follow me, 
 once he is out, I capture his base, no need to capture him. At least a hundred in-game items to 
 use, again youll only use a few, and some you will never use, unless you want to try it out. Graphics 
 are bland and muddy; there are some nice lighting effects. Sound and voice acting is mediocre, 
 the menus take away from the game. Youll see the same cut scene over and over only with whomever 
 you are using at the moment. The difficulty seems random, some enemies are hard at times other 
 times their not. Each and every fight is the same; every one's combos are the same as in X, Y, 
 is the combo to knock your enemy in the air, for everyone. Simple and plain, it is a distraction 
 for a little while, if I didnt get all the achievements on it, my playtime would have been a lot 
 shorter. In the end its just not worth the price, even at 29.99 I still would not recommend the 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: martin_allan
Rating: 6.8
Date: Dec 7, 2006 1:26 pm PT
Review:  Ok, here's how it goes - you're either one of two people; you like dynasty warriors and no matter 
 what's written in any review you're gonna play the game and have a good time regardless, or you 
 aren't interested and probably won't bother playing this game. Well I'm here to mainly speak to 
 the later people - the game is not legendary, hell it's not even that great but the dynasty warriors 
 series has always carved it's own niche and has a cult following which derserves at least a rental.
 
  
  You basically play as a mythical/historical officer from a period known as the Romance of the Three 
 Kingdom - a period of history that was pretty much full of battles and death and in that perspective 
 the game is one part history and two parts legend. You're main aim in the game is to kill anything 
 that moves and to that extent there is alot there to kill and to be honest this is where the game 
 excells the most. You see although this genre of game is hardly groung breaking there is nothing 
 like jumping into a crowd of enemies and watching them fall the dominos as you decimate them with 
 some martial art madness. Everyone wants to be a ninja, and although you're not a ninja in this 
 game it does comes close to that feeling, kinda like a nin....
  
  Your character also has the ability to level up in a quasi RPG feature meaning that your scrawny 
 Guan Yu that was pretty weak develops into the battle tank that he was meant to be. This also applies 
 to weapons and items which actually works really well for the game give you an incentive to keep 
 playing and revisit earlier levels.
  
  The empires mode also makes a return, this is a sort of basic cross between risk and the total 
 war series where you make decisions based on your territories on a map and when combat occurs you 
 transported straight into the fight. Although hardly pivotal to the game it does add a level of 
 depth and is certainly an intersting addition to the game breaking up mindless combat with an basic 
 element of strategy.
  
  The graphics are fairly sub par for a 360 game with the same fogging that has plagued and the music 
 still has that kick ass random guitar riff that's been in the game since the start. Achievement 
 wise it'll take a dedicated player a few days to rack up a 1000 points, which is always nice.
 
  
  Overall the game is hardly a technical achievement but the reduced price (&pound;20 at the time 
 of writting) and a genuinly fun game idea will be enough to sway a few gamers over, afterall games 
 are meant to be fun right? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Legend-at-heart
Rating: 6.2
Date: Nov 9, 2006 4:07 am PT
Review:  There have been many Dynasty Warriors games released since the Playstation 2 and still they are 
 exactly the same as they were before. I have to say i am a huge Dynasty Warriors fan but even i 
 am starting to get bored with the exactly the same thing every time i buy a Dynasty Warriors game. 
 Firstly in my opinion the graphics are nowhere near what they are expected to be for a next generation 
 console game. They are blocky and boring for the eyes with no real imagery or detail in them. Only 
 a hand few of the characters look as though they have had some serious time spent developing them. 
 Alot seemed to be rushed to get the game out just to make another sale. When you buy an xbox 360 
 game you expect to see xbox 360 graphics and i have to say that Koei have failed to deliver this. 
 Secondly the AI is still extremely dumb. The characters are all over the place and are not very 
 organised in any way. There are once again a hand full of officers however who do move tactically 
 but in general you find holes and gaps in all of the line up and set out of the entire army. However 
 when i say this there are officers that put up an excellent challenge to you in battle and make 
 the game seem more realistic. An important word to be used here is WAR. Where is it? You dont even 
 need to be that close to an enemy to kill them and it does not disperse the essence of war in my 
 eyes. It s too fake and greatly lacks in the way that war is and what events would occur. On the 
 other hand this game is based on true events which give it credibility but it still hasn't grasped 
 the real atmosphere that war hold and the way that that it is portrayed is very childish. I know 
 that this game is a 12+ and i am not asking for a blood spilling massacre i am just trying to get 
 the point across that not all wars are as straight foreward as they are in Dynasty Warriors. The 
 sound of Dynasty Warriors does not seem to change throughout the entire series of games. It has 
 got a very bland feel to it thats needs to be improved. The characters screams of pain are very 
 cartoon like and do not have a hint of realism in them at all. Although they are trying to keep 
 in touch with the old Dynasty Warriors games and keep the same house style that they all had i 
 feel that Dynasty Warriors needs an entire new make over. It is not all bad though. As a Dynasty 
 Warriors fan i love the way that you can control your own army and raise them through the ranks 
 to control the whole of China and be remembered in history. It has got more scenarios and more 
 battlefields than the previous Dynasty Warriors Empires which adds variety to its players. Which 
 adds a few hours extra gameplay.
  They have integrated the way its all played out in history into the main empire mode which shows 
 you how the real generals moved back then and how they would move now if you made a certain event 
 occur. This is a great feature that i enjoy because it gets you into the feel of how it would be 
 to be a general in China.
  They have integrated a lot more playable characters into this game so any officer that your opponant 
 has can be captured and used by yourself. But on the other hand as i said previously they are not 
 very detailed and alot of te luitenants etc look exactly the same. As for value for money i would 
 only recomend this game for a child as a christmas present because it is not particularly amazing 
 and after a few hours it gets very repetitive for an adult. My review may seem to be very negative 
 about this game but as i have said before i am a Dynasty Warriors fan but i am generally unimpressed 
 with the effort into te game and will be taking my money elsewhere if changes are not made soon. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: racerx737
Rating: 7.7
Date: Nov 3, 2006 1:36 pm PT
Review:  If you're a fan of the Dynasty Warriors series, this game is definitely a must-buy. The battles 
 are largely the same as the format that we have come to love, with a few changes such as specific 
 numbers of troops under each officer (which increase as the officer's level increases) , and certain 
 powers of each officer such as Attack, Taunt, or Defend. The Empire mode brings a new taste of 
 strategy to the series reminiscent of the old Castles: Siege and Conquest series. In Empire mode, 
 you have many choices of options you can take, you can replenish officer's troops, search for new 
 officers, acquire new abilities for coming battles, create items (which are only one-use which 
 I feel is a step back from the infinite use items previously in the series) , request aid from allies, 
 and many other choices. When you run out of turns, you get to choose whether to attack an enemy-controlled 
 area, defend an area under your control, aid an ally under attack, or rest (do nothing) . Multiplayer 
 is fun and an easy way to level up quickly. This game is overall pretty fun but the GamerScore 
 objectives take a long time to unlock. The voice-acting in the game is pretty awful as is consistent 
 with the series and the graphics aren't anything spectacular, but they are a step up from previous 
 entries in the series. But for $40, this game is a good value. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DracoStrife
Rating: 7.7
Date: Oct 25, 2006 10:51 am PT
Review:  There are several things that are both good and bad with DW5: Empires. First off, Empire mode is 
 for the win. I like being able to select the places that I want conquered. There is a fair amount 
 of strategy involved in this game: first on the map board in Empire's mode with it's multitude 
 of options on how to run your kingdom, to on the field itself as the enemy officers will keep you 
 on your toes, especially when they're coming towards your main base. Finally, the Edit Mode is 
 awesome, as now you can have your own characters run Ancient China how you see fit. This is definitely 
 a game to play with a friend as co-op is also excellent.
  
  As far as the problems go, there are several. First, the voice acting is pretty horrid. I find 
 it weird that some of the game's officers that look like they're around their mid to late thirties 
 or forties sound like they're twenty. Also, I really wish that the basic grunts on the field, your 
 side as well as the enemy's, would put up a LOT more of a fight. Finally, there are some options 
 in Empire mode that are kinda pointless, like: Rest or Defense, both which to the best of my knowledge 
 do absolutely nothing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: breckcowboy25
Rating: 6.7
Date: Oct 22, 2006 5:03 pm PT
Review:  Dynasty Warriors 3 and 4 on the PS2 were great games. This on the Xbox 360, is not. The Empire 
 theme was fairly good, but the multiplayer on this game is complete garbage. On the other dynasty 
 warriors games, you could level up weapons, and on this one it's not there. This game is definitely 
 a rental. I bought it for $40 which wasnt totally bad, but it wasn't a great deal. The fighting 
 is repetitive as usual, but on the other DW games you could tolerate it. If you've played one level 
 on Dynasty Warriors 5 Empires, you've played them all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maxx_photo
Rating: 4.2
Date: Sep 28, 2006 9:29 am PT
Review:  This game featured a nice try at combining a Risk-like strategy map with third person action. The 
 strategy part includes upgrades that can be used in the heat of the action, but it's so random 
 that it's hard to prepare for the battles.
  
  The action part is extremely lame. I found myself winning against armies of 20,000 men when I had 
 1,000 by using my hero well. While it's a nice concept to have a Rambo crushing machine with nearly 
 no backup, it's not that realistic. Then when you have evenly matched armies, the button-mashing 
 gameplay is fairly fun... for the first hour.
  
  The gameplay is highly repetitive and some heroes are severely easy to win with, while others are 
 insanely difficult to win with while on the same level. To get all the achiements, you have to 
 beat the available scenarios to unlock new scenarios. Each new scenario is played on the same maps 
 with the same key map points with the same heroes available.
  
  Overall, this game is an empty shell of what a fun button-masher should be. Rent it. Only the most 
 hardcore gamers will be able to battel through all the scenarios to get all the achievement points. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jivekibbles
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 12, 2006 11:08 am PT
Review:  DW5E has changed in the way you can have better strategy options which makes it better than last 
 DW. the stategy is nothing much in-Battle but outside it.. it is oretty deep whit comands like research 
 and trade and the areas you control have an effect on these options.
  the gameplay is the same as any other DW5 game.... nuff said... well actually the game tends to be 
 centered around territory control. and too much so it gets boring
  the graphics have been improved but they aint amazing... like any other DW game.
  cool thing is. 
 in all chapter (they all seem the same) you can choose to be one of the preset armys. OR you can 
 make your own army out of spare character that arent there and rule china your own way.
  its like doing is the normal way. but with different voices.
  i would not recommend paying full 
 for this ever. its not worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kenerhai
Rating: 7.8
Date: Aug 29, 2006 6:06 pm PT
Review:  For many years Koei has released Dynasty Warriors and its predecessors with little change to its 
 hack and slash formula. This was a fun concept that puts your officer of choice against entire 
 legions of armys and other officers from the opposing army. And with each release, nothing really 
 changed, save for the edition of a tweak to graphics (even after 3 console generations, the graphics 
 still feel very left behind) , a new character or 10, and lately a little strategy. Critics of the 
 series will tell you that even after countless reiterations, it's still the same game and yes, 
 more or less it is still the same old game. But honestly that's not a bad thing, to an extent, 
 as many still love it.
  Graphically, this game never seemed to move on, especially on the 360. Considering this game is 
 ps2 port, they never tried to make this game feel like it belongs on 360. Draw distances are better, 
 more characters fill the screen without too much slowdown, although it does happen. Music, more 
 of the same japanese elctro rock riffs, but having the 360 version lets you listen to your own 
 music, so there ya go. Voice acting is absolutely horrid, but laughably so. Hearing your generals 
 constantely yapping about bases gets old quick tho.
  Now, the gameplay. Still more of the same hack and slash endless armies of enemies. But, personally. 
 . .I love it!! After many plays through with the same characters through the same historical locations 
 it still hasn't gotten old for me. I can do this till Dynasty Warriors Empires Extreme Legends 
 9! At least with empires, a new strategy element breaks up the levels as you try to recruit new 
 officers, form alliances with bordering territories, level up you weapons, produce items, and build 
 your own army up. But, the thing that constanly keeps me coming back and what games like N3 lacks, 
 is the sheer amount of variety. Nearly 50 characters, on top of making your own, each with their 
 own unique and wild weapons. This is what I can't get enough of and probably never will.
  All in all, yes this is still the same old game, and probably always will be, but with this many 
 unique characters and weapons, each with a different place in history I will continue to play this 
 series and stand up for it. And for those that say that this is still the same game, so why get 
 the next? Well, prior to the 360, I would have told you don't get the next, stay with what you 
 got. But now acheivements begging me for the next. Just give the next one a couple of months to 
 drop in price and trade in the old one. I traded in DW5 for xbox, got $10 bucks for it and got 
 the new one used for $27, so only ended up paying 17 bucks!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thebuft
Rating: 5.2
Date: Aug 21, 2006 4:39 am PT
Review:  I have waited for the next generation dynasty warriors ever since i got my Xbox and i'm a little 
 disappointed, Graphics are similar to the old PS2 version with the only major improvement being 
 the draw distance. big deal i can see further now, quite frankly i expected more .
  
  its not that the game is bad exactly ,it just doesnt feel next Gen. the empire mode is great as 
 always and the new menu's are larger and have more options than before, sound is good but not great 
 (too many synth rock anthems) and gameplay is of the classic hack and slash style (real old school)
 
  
  overall if your a fan of the series get it, if not don't , but you could always rent 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kinco360
Rating: 6.1
Date: Aug 11, 2006 10:45 pm PT
Review:  This was technically my first Dynasty Warriors game, so I thought I'd see if the negative reviews 
 that the series had gotten from X-play in the past were true.
  
  First off, the concept of Asian warlords has always interested me. Since this game was released 
 on the previous-gen consoles, my local Blockbuster didn't take the trouble to get it for the Xbox 
 360. 
  
  So, I've got the game now, time to try it out! I start playing for awhile and almost immediately 
 start seeing a trend of repetitiveness the likes of which I have never seen in a video game. I 
 only played the Empire Mode, but that was enough to give me insight on what this game's all about.
 
  
  Bottom Line:
  
  Graphics: This may be the best aspect to this overall dreary game. The graphics really aren't awe-inspiring, 
 and make me question how a game with this sort of presentation found it's way on a next-gen system. 
 The character models, which each unique, do little to add to the game. The landscapes are perhaps 
 the most boring I've seen in any game since the PS1 days.
  
  Sound: This is the part of the game that just made me say to myself, "what the hell were they thinking?!" 
 Let's start with the background music. It's all frickin' metal music! I mean, was their budget 
 so low that they had to shove in a few generic rock tracks? I felt they could've atleast kept a 
 sense of realism by adding some nice oriental music, but noooooo! And the voice-overs are quite 
 possible the worst ever to be packed into a video game. I'm convinced that they got 20 people to 
 read the same line, but improvised. When all any of the characters say in a game is, "Let's go 
 take over a base!", there's a huge question as to KOEI's dedication to their games.
  
  Gameplay: As expected with Beat-Em Ups, this game is a button masher. Now while at times that can 
 be a good thing, it isn't present in this game. The premise of the game is to run from point A 
 to point B, while clearing out enemy bases along the way.
  
  There's almost no originality to this game, and I hope KOEI doesn't release another monstrosity 
 like this ever again. After playing this game for so long, I question my own judgement. Do NOT 
 buy this game. I would advise against renting it, but if you're determined to try this game out, 
 PLEASE rent it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamefreakwill
Rating: 7.8
Date: Aug 7, 2006 8:21 pm PT
Review:  Dynasty Warriros has had a long running series of endless button-mashing and hack and slash gameplay. 
 The series has had downfalls and risings (meaning, many good and bad times) . The gameplay of constantly 
 hacking at dim-witted enemies and forming empires has come to this, this fun and interesting game.
 
  
  First off, the gameplay has hack and slash style, along with button mashing, and strategy. While 
 the hack and slash gameply may not be so great, the strategy is. You can command your troops, reinforce 
 armies before battles, help the locals, hire officers after capture, and so on. So mainly, its 
 got a good chunk of content.
  
  The graphics really aren't that good. The creators mainly put the PS2 version's graphics on to 
 the 360, which was a bad idea, but who cares. Its still a fun game.
  
  The voice action in the game is just plain bland. One, its Americans acting as them, which isn't 
 good at all, especially since its based in China. Two, the actors act poorly. They say stuff like, 
 "Fool, you stay there and wait for me to crush you," or stuff like that and it really sounds bad. 
 Sound effecs are OK though.
  
  If you like these types of strategy, hack and slash, button-mashing, or any of that stuff, check 
 this out. If you don't, still give this a try, i know other magazines have given this bad reviews, 
 but play them and see how you like them. It is at least worth renting.
  
  If the creators really took advantage of the Xbox 360 and improved the voice-acting a lot, this 
 would've been a lot better. Not to mention Xbox Live support, like battling other people online. 
 But it still gives a 2 player co-op so you can play with a friend. But overall, Dynasty Warrirors 
 5: Empires is still a fun game.
  
  Dynasty Warriors 5, hack, hack, hack, hack, hack, hack, hack, hack, hack, hack, hack, and slash 
 gets a 7.8 out of 10
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Aerialslayer
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 2, 2006 4:44 pm PT
Review:  this game is the best of the series. This is a really great game and I am very glad they made it 
 for the 360 they made a good choice. I recommend that people rent it first though and if u like 
 it the please buy it. I hope they continure making more of these games, and i hope they continue 
 on making the story and the gameplay better. I hope they keep doing this great in the future when 
 gaming gets even better. Next time they should add it so that you are able to face your friend 
 on multiplayer and that they control their own army. they should also make this game online now 
 that would be really cool. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: odamkevin
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jul 29, 2006 7:49 pm PT
Review:  dynasty warriors is back and this game is a decent sequel to the rich series. this game tries to 
 implement more strategy into the dynast warriors, but in the end its really just another update 
 for the same concept Koei has been making their dough from the past couple years. graphics arent 
 really next-gen and other than a few new features, no different than the other titles in the series. 
 i cant help but hate the voices and comments from fellow and opposing generals during the course 
 of battle. once again, i must state that almost every title microsoft lets through the door without 
 being live enabled will feel the pain, and this game is no different. co-op is pretty fun and i 
 would definitely recommend for one of those all-nighters with a buddy. in the end, if your the 
 type to enjoy a good beat em' up experience, give this title a try but otherwise dynasty warriors 
 5 is nothing to double-take at. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kingofseas911
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jul 26, 2006 7:36 pm PT
Review:  if you are a fan of the series this game is worth playing. the graphics are good, no frame rate 
 problems, solid gameplay, far line of sight, strategic empire mode, tons of  
 items to unlock. it is pretty immersive and addicting leveling all the generals up, especially 
 if u get a guy with a blunt weapon bashing thru hundreds of soliders. however the in game vioces 
 are whiny and repetitive, but the music is good and u can pick music from the past DW games. if 
 u arent a fan of the series rent it, but its only $40 compared to $50-$60 for other 360 games. 
 it has a ton of levels and lots of content to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: R1KSTA
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jul 24, 2006 12:31 pm PT
Review:  This has to be the best of the series. With over 250 officers to work with and rank up and 75 polices 
 to use to your advantage, It really is a good all round strategy game. you can pick up the pad 
 and get straight into the action as you are battling to unite ancient china with 25 areas to conquer.
 
  
  Good points then
  5 difficulty settings for the very begginer to the ultimate samurai
  plenty of game time hours and hours of solid action
  characters, weapons, tactics and power ups 
 - never the same battle twice
  
  bad points
  can get repetative after a while
  some of the characters look and feel exactly the same
  no live mode - dynasty fans wont be happy
 
  
  all in all a good quality game at an affordable price
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dimsey
Rating: 7.4
Date: Jul 22, 2006 9:22 pm PT
Review:  Hey look, yet ANOTHER Dynasty Warriors game.
  But this one's actually somewhat different to the last thousand iterations thanks to somewhat interesting 
 strategy gameplay.
  
  The main mode here is the Empires mode, which in the beginning has two sceneario's. One fictional 
 and one historical, with more to be unlocked.
  The Empires mode contains the hack and slash and constant pressing of the "X" button Dynasty Warriors 
 fans have come to know, love and if they're somewhat sane grow tired with after a dozen times, 
 but theres a strategy section that breaks up the tedium that comes with hours of button mashing.
 
  
  You'll start with one territory a general or few and lietenets as well as a bunch of troops. From 
 there, it's pretty much up to you.
  But you can encourage crafts to earn a little more dough to spend on recruiting troops, special 
 tactics for use in battle, training for your generals, signing peace treatys with other clans and 
 more.
  
  From this map, you can also invade other territorys - which then puts you into traditional Dynasty 
 Warrior action where you'll hack and slash and after enough hacking and slashing, hopefully take 
 over the territory.
  From time to time, you'll also be attacked and need to do more hacking and slashing to defend your 
 territory.
  And just for varietys sake, sometimes your allies will request that you do a joint attack on and 
 enemy or even help them defend their land, which - you guessed it - leads to more hacking and slashing.
 
  If it were all simply hacking and slashing I'd have to give this a low score, but the strategy 
 layer is a welcome change, but in the next DW's could do with being a little more in depth, I feel.
 
  
  Graphically, DW5 is decent - it's not horrible looking, but I'm not sure it's exactly pushing the 
 360. But then I don't have an eye for detail.
  There does seem to be more going on in the screen then usual, I think. 
  And if its the trade 
 off between more guys on screen and graphics, then the more guys is a good thing.
  
  The audio department is as good as ever. Excellent music and sound effects. The voice acting though 
 is still mighty lame.
  
  The Create an Officer mode is better if I remember correctly.
  Theres certainly more weapons to choose from, which is just awesome.
  Doesn't seem to be a real 
 variety in the visual aspects of creating your own officer though.
  
  All in all, if your a Dynasty Warriors fan but like me have grown tired with the formula (or even 
 lack there of, perhaps) then the strategy part of empires is a welcome change.
  
  But if your just not into strategy stuff, using your brain or just liked Dynasty Warriors as it 
 was, well - keep playing the last DW then - almost the same anyhoo.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: colegallop
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 20, 2006 6:34 pm PT
Review:  this series has been going on for quite a long time now. this time they finally decided to do something 
 alittle new alongside the rather boring hack and slash fest that is all that makes this game. they 
 add somewhat of a franchise mode aka empire mode. you customize your nation and upgrade and do 
 all sorts of things to make your nation more powerful then others. and on top of that you take 
 over other nations as well. other then the new features nothing has changed. same old 300 kills 
 and mousou attacks. nothing spectacular. on top of it all the graphics are not very current gen. 
 it all looks like its always been. please if the makers can hear me make a new gen series with 
 better looking character and clothes that dont blow in the wind like cardboard. damn you people! 
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darkstar_Sinada
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jul 12, 2006 9:43 am PT
Review:  Mostly everyone has heard of or played one of the many Dynasty Warriors games. The fighting is 
 nearly mindless hack-n-slash, and tends to get repetitive. The engine hasn't changed much over 
 the years. But the Dynasty Warriors: Empires series has improved greatly on strategy.
  
  For those of you unfamiliar with the series, heres a short summary: You are a chinese warrior in 
 the era of the Han Dynasty. You fight thousands of soldiers for glory of one of the many kingdoms. 
 It's a button-mashing hack-n-slash filled with tons of cool characters and weapons. Your characters 
 gets more powerful with each fight, and each victory is one step closer to conquering the region 
 of China.
  
  Empires strives to improve the series by adding strategy that is not too complex, but not too simple. 
 The basic action-buffs can still coast through the game on easier settings, simply picking commands 
 from their officers. But those desiring strategy can crank up the difficulty and have some fierce 
 battles, ones that are often decided by some well placed ploys or traps.
  
  The graphics are still those of an Xbox game, but there is a slight improvement made by the 360's 
 hardware. In the past Dynasty Warriors, soldiers would appear from thin air and strike, because 
 the consoles hardware could not handle all those guys on the screen at once. But now on the Xbox 
 360, that problem is nearly fixed. Besides that, however, the game looks and feels like an Xbox/PS2 
 game.
  
  The game does a good job of making the fights seem more important. Each victory/loss yields physical 
 results, so you can feel one step closer to making Han China yours, or more desperate as your small 
 force is closed in. The achievements all require time, none of them impossible to get if you play 
 long enough. A good balance I would say.
  
  So overall, if you are a fan of the series, rent the game first. It may have more for you, or you 
 may be screaming "Deja Vu!" If you have never played a Dynasty Warriors game, give one a try. Although 
 they haven't changed much over the years, they still are fun.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: SgtJamesPerez
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jul 9, 2006 3:47 pm PT
Review:  Dynasty Warriors 5 is a very fun game for everyone to enjoy, its reply value is great, you get 
 to play as much as 250 officers !!!! It completes all the needs for any tactical game fan, its 
 fun and can be played for hours straight, but it does have its downs, it gets boring for some people 
 just for pressing the X and A button, but thats just for non real gamers, I recommened anyone to 
 buy this game, the achievements are easy and completes anyone DW5 fans needs, if only there was 
 an online mode............ which may have made a lot of past dynasty warriors fans pretty happy, 
 but watch out for samurai warriors !! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: whitey3221
Rating: 7.1
Date: Jul 9, 2006 12:38 am PT
Review:  I was absolutely hooked on this game for the week that I rented it. Although not quite hooked enough 
 to buy it, but I thought it a great rental. Maybe I just like button mashing too much, but I really 
 enjoyed beating on helpless soldiers and then having "epic" battles with other leaders. The graphics 
 are nothing special especially for the 360. The sound can get repetitive when you are giving orders 
 they each general has only one way of saying what they want such as "Do what you think you should" 
 by Meng Huo when you assign your underlings to do what they think is right given the situation. 
 Or when you attack an enemy supply base "just because we're a supply base doesn't mean we can't 
 fight." get's a tad overplayed. As I said before this game is much fun as a rental that is if you 
 are alone. The multiplayer is co-op and I felt it made it too easy to win. This would be a good 
 buy for 20 or 30 bucks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kotor_Forever
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jul 3, 2006 11:27 am PT
Review:  This game at first seemed complicated to me. But then I figured it all out and it is actually a 
 nice element. Most weapons require you to practice to learn how to use them right. Some weapons 
 are completely useless.
  *cough* FANS!!!!!*
  To unlock new weapons you must get a set number of kills and the right level of technology. If 
 you want to get something done, you have to do it yourself because the AI is completely retarted. 
 If you get ganged up on by enemy officers (unless you're really good) you will be close to death 
 (or dead) . The graphics look like they could be on the PS1. The voice acting is terrible. But if 
 you are a fan of the series, or theses elements don't bother you, then you should consider this 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maxinshoes
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jun 29, 2006 8:54 am PT
Review:  Dynasty Warriors makes it's debut on the 360 with a (not so next gen graphics) in DW5 Empires.
 
  DW5 was never going to be fully superior over it's PS2 counterpart, graphically, but thats to 
 the smothness of 360 motions, the brief cutscenes run like urine down a silken sheet. The most 
 in depth part of the game is the strategy, you choose your region, generals, lieutenants (or LEFTENANTS 
 to us British! Most of you don't know that) , weapons, items, skills, battle plans, governors, factions 
 and how you are seen in the eyes of the Imperial leaders.
  In battle you often come across a showdown (after the minutes of repetitive hacking) , these showdowns 
 can either knock your opponent down or send you flying. Power moves are also essential (referred 
 to in game as Masou moves, in which you must power up your Masou to use these moves) . OK it may 
 sound dodgy and predictable ... because it is. No customs have changed from the original DW. The 
 main differences are the Empire mode and the vast selection of tactics. The graphics may not live 
 up to scratch, but everything else scrapes in just fine.
  Great value for 30 quid! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: supersohail
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 28, 2006 9:14 am PT
Review:  Dynasty Warriors 5 empires is a great addition to the series and it is much better than the original 
 empire. There are more things you can do and also there are over 200 officers to be and some of 
 them from the original games. In this warrior, you have to focus on building an empire and upgrade 
 and gain gold to make your army better, also you can hire some officers for your own too. The graphics 
 are much the same. This version is a bit dfferent to the ps2 one, because the size of the screen. 
 It was a bit dissapointed that there are only 2 modes in the game, (free and empire mode) , they 
 basicaly the same. We all wish that there were challenge mode and also we would love the arena 
 like in DW 4. So it is a great game and good effort on to it. :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mattybman
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jun 27, 2006 4:00 am PT
Review:  So I've never played a Dynasty Warriors game before this, but I was in the mall and I saw the cheap 
 price tag, so I got it.
  
  At first I didn't have a clue what the hell was going on, I didn't understand why I couldn't invade 
 certain bits, or how I could get more money, but after a little bit of playing these things come 
 to you. Now i thrive on going out and seeing how many generals I can kill or Bases I can take over. 
 The game is pretty repeptitive but in a good way, and the music is a gret accompaniment.
  
  Gameplay: Pretty repeptitive but holds your attention while you try to master the empire
  
 
  Graphics: Quite poor compared to some of the other 360 games but not the worst either
  
  Sound: Awesome japanese metal soundtrack mixed with more traditional tunes
  
  Value: For the 
 price you get a good game that you can just pick up and hack n' slash your way through or use strategys 
 to your advantage
  
  Tilt:
  
  Pros: Fun hack n' slash gameplay
  Great soundtrack
  Good for people who enjoy making their own empire
  Cons: Can get boring when you just whoop the 
 opposition with a powerful general 
  :Graphcs not up to xbox 360 standard 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gunmetalman
Rating: 6.7
Date: Jun 16, 2006 1:08 pm PT
Review:  Odds are if you're reading this you're a newcomer to the Dynasty Warriors franchise (like me) . 
 I've heard a lot about DW but I haven't played before until now. My first impressions were that 
 it took too long to get into the action, but I soon learned that if you rush into things with this 
 game you'll probably lose. I rented this from Gamefly, but it didn't come with a detailed instruction 
 booklet so I had to download it from them; but it was still a little complicated to me. Aside this 
 the actual combat isn't that hard to pick up, it's the strategy. The game is divided into a few 
 phases. The first is the strategy phase where you position your generals and lieutenants, purchase 
 items, troops, strengthen your military and defenses, etc. You can also form alliances and invest 
 in trade routes to help your economy. When you finish this phase you proceed to the attack phase 
 where you choose an adjacent (next to) territory to invade, defend your own territory from invaders, 
 or help one of your allies invade/defend a territory. Then you finally proceed to the battle phase 
 where you actually engage in combat.
  
  The acting for the characters isn't that great and all of the bases look the same except for the 
 catapults and the main bases. There are four general commands you can give to your troops, attack 
 (search and capture bases) , defend (guard allied bases) , gather (all troops fight with you) , and 
 attack and defend (where some of your troops will attack while others will fall back and defend) . 
 You can also purchase items in the strategy phase where you can use in the battle phase (depending 
 on the difficulty this may not be necessary) .
  
  For those of you that are renting to get achievement points (like me) reconsider renting this game. 
 It takes a while to get some of the achievements, and you might get bored with the game before 
 you even get all of the points you want. For the average/casual player (that hasn't played any 
 of the DW games before) this game will bore you after about 10-30 minutes after playing it. But 
 overall this game is ok.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Carsomyr1111
Rating: 7.6
Date: Jun 12, 2006 7:40 pm PT
Review:  Dynasty Warriors 5 on the X-Box 360 is graphically unpolished, the sound FX are decent, the voice 
 cast will get on your nerves, and the music is fair. Like it's brethern before it this entry is 
 also extremely repetative. So here comes the big question why is it still so much fun to play?
 
  
  First off the level of strategy in selecting your officers, developing your empire, and selecting 
 how you will conquere gives this entry a greater depth the other titles in the series. And despite 
 being repetative it is still fun to mow down hundreds of enemies with your generals. 
  
  If you enjoyed the previous entries in the series or any game made by Koei then chances are you 
 will enjoy this title. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jtfwyvernlord
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 6, 2006 3:08 pm PT
Review:  I've been a fan of Dynasty Warriors since it came to the Xbox, and now the Xbox 360. I have Dynasty 
 Warriors 3, 4, 5, and 5 Empires for the X360. So, as you can guess, I enjoy the Dynasty Warriors 
 series. But looking at it with a critical eye, this game specifically really hasn't changed THAT 
 much over time. The characters got new outfits, and a few minor changes were made to the weapons 
 and/or the battle style, but most things remain the same. I would recommend this game to anyone 
 who gets bored easily and loves hack-n-slash video games. The graphics weren't really better on 
 the 360 than they were on the Xbox, which was disappointing, but I got that game for the gameplay, 
 not just graphics. Overall, a good game, and the strategy element added by the empire mode is much 
 better than the old games. One of my Xbox controllers' X button broke from hitting it so much. 
 Now with Empires, there is a little more strategy involved. Also, this game has a very strong Create-a-Player 
 mode, which is neat. I recommend this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joshismetal
Rating: 5
Date: Jun 5, 2006 7:38 pm PT
Review:  this series has been going on for quite a long time now. this time they finally decided to do something 
 alittle new alongside the rather boring hack and slash fest that is all that makes this game. they 
 add somewhat of a franchise mode aka empire mode. you customize your nation and upgrade and do 
 all sorts of things to make your nation more powerful then others. and on top of that you take 
 over other nations as well. other then the new features nothing has changed. same old 300 kills 
 and mousou attacks. nothing spectacular. on top of it all the graphics are not very current gen. 
 it all looks like its always been. please if the makers can hear me make a new gen series with 
 better looking character and clothes that dont blow in the wind like cardboard. damn you people! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tikichris20
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 5, 2006 1:25 pm PT
Review:  Let me just start by saying I was not really expecting too much out of this game when I bought 
 it. I mean I did get the game new for 30 bucks after all.
  I have heard quite a few people trash the Dynasty Warriors series for basically being a monotonous 
 hack and slash. While some of this is true, DW Empires has introduced an element of strategy that 
 makes this game much more interesting. Along with your basicQuick Actionmode you may also 
 play a new mode called Empire. This is where all of the fun is at. You begin on a map of China 
 broken down into 25 separate territories, in which you pick one of the available armies based upon 
 which scenario you are currently playing. From then on you start making decisions depending how 
 you feel will best suit your needs for the situation. This ranges anywhere from donating gold to 
 your people to raise the respect they have for you, beefing up the number of troops your officers 
 have, searching for new officers, applying tactics for the battlefield, producing items for your 
 officers, forming alliances ect. ( Like I said the strategy element is what really makes this game. 
 ) After you have finished making your decisions then it is time for battle! You may invade one 
 territory per turn or choose to do nothing if you feel you are not yet ready to attack. If one 
 of your territories is under attack you will also have the option to defend. Keep that up until 
 all 25 territories are under your control to finally have a united China! As for the actual battle, 
 just run around kill anything that is not a member of your army and occupy the your foes base. 
 Piece of cake.
  Graphically speaking this game is nothing to get excited about. In the games defense it is a port 
 form PS2 and is also a budget title, so give them a break ok? lol. If you are looking for a game 
 with jaw dropping graphics, look somewhere else ( Oblivion ) .
  The sound is another low point. You can get into some of the songs but with both a lack of variety 
 as well as total number of songs you will get tired of them pretty quickly. The voice acting KILLS 
 me; it's pretty bad I am not going to lie. The fact that you hear the same quote 5000 times does 
 not help much either. 
  Value in my opinion is very good seeing as how I have spent considerably more time on this game 
 than I had ever planned; I guess being 30 dollars doesn't hurt either.
  All in all, it is just a great game to sit down and play. My biggest gripe and I am sure many people 
 will agree is the lack of a listing of all the officers you have acquired. This will annoy many 
 gamers who are trying to get the 250 Officer Achievement because you have pretty much no idea who 
 is still left to to recruit. Check out www. achieve360points. com to get a little help if you are 
 having trouble finding your officers. Other than that this game was a pleasant surprise for me 
 and for the price I say give it a shot.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jakemanp
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jun 4, 2006 5:57 am PT
Review:  I happen to love the Dynasty Warriors games. They are real great fun. Unlike some other Dynasty 
 Warriors game, this one includes strategy in its gameplay. I personally find it confusing and stupid, 
 and that's my only downside to this game. This version of the game also lets you crate a character 
 with various weapons, hair styles, clothing, and voices. This is a great addition the the game. 
 The graphics are great and the controlls are simple. I know some people who love this game, and 
 some people who don't like it, and that's why I think you should rent it before you buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LouieV13
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 29, 2006 2:52 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: The combos come off smoothly and its just so fun to hack and slash everyone! Take no 
 prisiners! The problem is the jumping and the damed camera. The camera is unmovible unless you 
 use the block button. 9
  
  Graphics: Not too next gen but at the 40$ price there dam good!!! Some of the levels look like 
 they use HDR because of the mid day effects. 9
  
  Sound: Fuedel japanease metal never sounded so good! I dident even know in the 200's they had metal... 
 10
  
  Value: I had this game for 2days and all my other 360 games are gathering just!!! You can play 
 this forever!! 10
  
  TiLt: This game is just so amazing you should reccomend it to anyone who likes to kill things. 
 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: paullywog
Rating: 1
Date: Aug 1, 2006 4:08 pm PT
Review:  Okay. So you've borrowed Dynasty Warriors from a friend, wondering why he isn't playing it but 
 instead allowing you to play it. You're soon to find out. You are taken into a, totally honest, 
 shabby lobby. The confusion will get you to grudginly select some strange, corny named game mode. 
 After 20 minutes of loading, confusing "strategy" setup screens, and choppy cutscenes, the battle 
 begins with out-of-place, little-kid inspired guitar music. Also wlecoming you are the lame, 360-innappropriate 
 excuses for graphics. You'll send your guy, who, by the way, has an atrocious camera angle, into 
 a "battle" where a bunch of airheaded AI warriors swing into the air and occasionally one will 
 die in a predictable pose. You die much too easily, and have absolutely no indication as to what 
 you are supposed to be doing in this ugly, hopeless world. After dying a few times and having the 
 mission fail on you for no reason, you'll forget even playing this game for achievements. After 
 playing Dynasty Warriors 5, you'll have nothing to say except "What were the first 4 like? Gyash." 
 So do yourself a favor and act like this game doesn't exist, it'll be more fun to review it than 
 to play it, and spread the word- people who DID buy this game are in denial and gave this game 
 too much credit for its shabby, boring, outdated and overrated gameplay and what not. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Crunchy12489
Rating: 8.7
Date: May 27, 2006 2:41 am PT
Review:  Let's get down to the point.
  
  Graphics: Pretty nice, but not nice enough. It's about 3 steps above XBOX graphics, but 2 steps 
 below XBOX 360. It's much better in HDTV though.
  
  Sound: I like the sounds in game, but the voice acting sucked! You will laugh every time someone 
 says something in this game.
  
  Gameplay: Definately the best thing about this. It is just so fun and the Empire Mode will last 
 for ages! 100% Great on gameplay.
  
  Longivity: Pretty damn long.
  
  Overall: Definately worth getting. This is an underappreciated game! Not to mention an underpriced 
 one!
  
  Summarization: Don't rent it, buy it! It's the cheapest X360 game on the market, and I would have 
 to say the best game in it's class (fighting/adventure) , besides Oblivion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tdouglass
Rating: 7.1
Date: May 24, 2006 10:02 pm PT
Review:  The Dynasty Warriors series has been around for a long time, and for a long time it has been the 
 same old characters with the same old weapons doing the same old things. Dynasty Warriors 5: Empires 
 takes those same old characters and uses the same old weapons... in HD!
  
  However, Dynasty Warriors 5: Empires has an extra aspect that makes it truly a great game, where 
 the others in the series have been mediocre. You can actually choose your battles, plan attacks 
 and make strategic choices that can either help you win or doom you for the rest of the game.
 
  
  The tactical aspect of the game seperates it really from any other game out there, because it takes 
 some turn-style actions as well as actual combat, so it becomes a unique experience that is really 
 a lot of fun to play around with.
  
  Graphically not impressive as a 360 title, and the sound lacks any ingenuity, so technically it's 
 a pretty basic game. Very dissapointing in HD, not even in the same league as Oblivion or GRAW, 
 it seems like a little more time on graphics would have made the difference between a fun game 
 and an outstanding game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SoralinkGS
Rating: 5.5
Date: May 20, 2006 1:37 am PT
Review:  First off, I am a fan of the Dynasty Warriors series. I have played The DW series since DW2 on 
 PS2. Now, DW5: Empires is here on Xbox 360 and I must say that it looks great. While not the next 
 gen I was hoping for, the graphics blow what the PS2 and Xbox had the DW series running at. My 
 problem with the game? I really don't like DW5 as much as DW4 for the reason I will try to get 
 across. Read on:
  
  Graphics:
  
  These are ok. Not really a next gen game, but they could do with a load more polish. Still, the 
 game is one of a cheap Xbox 360 games since it was released with a 40 dollar price tag. The one 
 thing I notice and some Hardcore DW fans might notice as well is that the lighting in the Xbox 
 360 version is very well done and the framerate stays pretty tight throughtout even the biggest 
 mobs.
  
  Sound:
  
  Awesome. The one major thing I love about the series is the music. the Music is a mix of Rock and 
 roll and ancient Chinese songs. The music has got to be the best music in a video game full of 
 Chinese History.
  
  Gameplay:
  
  The same since DW2, the game play is a very simple, but very repeditive system. First off, this 
 is the series that invent what is known as the words "button masher" and "Hit X/square constantly". 
 Now i have not too many problems with that. My problem was that I didn't like the whole Empires 
 Mode. It kinda ruined the game for me after all the cool things were over. First, Thanks to this 
 system, The Generals in battle are now limited to 12 (6 on each side.) This is kind of sad since 
 I like haveing like a bunch of generals on the play feild. One thing i have grown to hate as well 
 is the Guard Captain thing. While cool at first, the Guard captain killing goes too far deep and 
 sometimes makes the game end feeling like your fighting guard captains constantly. Finally, the 
 whole empires thing is unbalanced. My first grip for it would be fact that if you don't take part 
 in the defend battle, you lose the territory no matter what. The second thing is that The recruitment 
 of Generals and the production of items is harder then it should be.
  
  Value:
  
  While $40, I still recommend the game as a rental only. The Empires mode is a Win-lose thing and 
 some may like it. as for me, i will pass. 
  
  Tilt:
  
  Again, the series is really fun, but this game loses points for the Empires mode not being much 
 fun.
  
  Pros:
  -Its Dynasty Warriors!
  -Its a $40 Xbox 360 game
  -The Graphics are the best yet for a DW game.
  -The music is AWESOME
  
  Cons:
  -REPEDITIVE
 
  -Empire Mode Ruins this version.
  -Enemy Generals use Cheap combos alot.
  
  Overall: 
  
  Xbox 360: 5.5/10.0
  
  Playstation 2: 5.0/10.0
  
  While it has the best Graphics for 
 a DW game, The Empires mode is a terrible. knnock points off the PS2 version for less graphic power.
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: SaMuRaI_Slice
Rating: 7.2
Date: May 17, 2006 6:00 pm PT
Review:  Dynasty Warriors 5: Empires is one of the many installments to the Dynasty Warriors frachise. If 
 you add up all the mockups, sequels, and other types of dynasty warriors games (Including Tactics, 
 and Samurai Warriors) there's around 12 of them. And I can say confindentaly that this is the best 
 one yet.
  
  But that's not saying much seeing as how all the games were horrible. DW5: Empires goes with my 
 stratgey at school, you do so badly that when you finally do something right your praised by all. 
 Luckily some people (like myself) can look past that and see what the game really is. Which is 
 just average.
  
  This is a review of the Xbox360 version, so keep in mind there may be different things in the two 
 different versions. So let's start there, from the moment you boot up the game you see Dynasty 
 Warriors did it's version of shapping up the graphics. There's better lighting, animations are 
 smoother, and little details are added like if your character has a cape or ponytail it will wave 
 in the wind. But that's nothing new, we've had that in Xbox Original games for 5 years now. To 
 say it in a good/bad way, it looks better, but it could've been a lot better. If you want a game 
 that takes your Xbox360 to the max, this isn't it. The only thing midly impressive is how you can 
 get around 20 guys on the screen with only a small chance of slowdown in frame rate.
  
  As for the soundtrack... well... it's really bad. The voice actors are all pretty terrible, they're 
 over exagerating all there lines, or just make them sound stale and dumb. The only thing saving 
 DW5: Empires from this category is the guitar revs in the background. They're not that advanced 
 but it's enough for you to turn up the volume on the Music and lower the speech of the many people 
 talking.
  
  As for new gameplay elements, there's a handful. And for a DW game that's a lot better then other 
 things. The new stratgey component of the game is nice, and keeps you thinking, there's a lot of 
 new stratgies, tactics, and other things that are all used and help to shape your empire. Which 
 I should probably explain. In a short way, Empires is basically playing Risk, except in between 
 attacking territories you have 20 minutes of cutting down guys with swords.
  
  There's more depth to it than that, but that's an over few. As for when you're actually on the 
 field, there's nothing new. You get new commands for your army instead of bodyguards from previous 
 games. They're pretty basic "Attack" "Defend" "Help Me" "Whatever you want". They're all pretty 
 straight forward and they actually work. When defending they'll actually defend, as goes with attacking 
 and help me. Which is surprisng for a DW game. Whatever you want is rarely you used though since 
 your allies end up getting themselves killed.
  
  The newer part of DW5 (And better) is the edit mode. It's very different now, from the previous 
 games minimal 4 different outfits there's now 9 different full outfits, and 12 different ways for 
 your hair and face appearance. Sadly your type of fighting is based off an already pre-made officer, 
 but it's nothing too bad. There's three new voice actors for each type of character (Male or Female) 
 and they've done a better job. Depending on how you dress your character the voice will act differently. 
 If you choose calm and make him look commando army general type he'll talk in a cocky kind of way. 
 If you choose a more peasent looking outfit he'll be more happy when he does something. And if 
 you choose an outlaw type outfit he'll be hard and "badass".
  
  To cut to the end quickly, DW5: Empires is a decent game, it's only 40 dollars and if you like 
 achievements they're all really easy, just time consuming. The game is average, it might not be 
 worth $40 dollars to some, but it was for me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: littledaves
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 17, 2006 5:31 pm PT
Review:  if they wouldve have done more to the graphics i wouldve have liked it a lot more. My absolute 
 favorite part of this game is that is involves a little stategy and u can be anybody u want not 
 just people like Ma Chao or Zhou Tai. 
  when they come out with the next DW i hope they will change the direction they are going otherwise 
 they arent going to be making anymore. DW is the first game i ever played for my ps2 and just because 
 they didnt meet my expectations on one game im not gonna stop buying there games. i have also bought 
 every DW game since DW 3, because it was my favorite game until Oblivion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: arronax2003
Rating: 8.2
Date: May 14, 2006 3:05 pm PT
Review:  Ahh dynasty warriors. this game has been going on longer than most geriatrics. well maybe not that 
 long, but its still been awhile. Empires however shoots a bit of new life into the badic dynasty 
 warriors by adding way more control over your units and territories. they took out the classic 
 Musou mode (which i guess was already beat to death with the previous 4) and put in the "empire" 
 mode. This is kinda cool i admit, but there are some times where i just want to press one button 
 and jump into a fight, not organize my armies and buy items and hire people. changing the item 
 scheme, so you can only use an item once before it disappears is kind of new to me, but it makes 
 sense when you can make them in one turn.
  
  Ah the AI. generally its pretty good, with the generals at least. But basic infantry tend to just 
 sit around like they're waiting for noon tea. You can hack up their comrades and they'll stand 
 there like they've got a stick up their.. nether.. regions. The voices are classic DW, a little fake 
 (ala godzilla almost at timeslook its Lubuzilla...") but its expected by now, after all, the 
 characters are chinese. 
  
  All in all, its a mixed bag. Its still a heckuva lot of fun to hack guys up, but now it doesn't 
 seem as rewarding to level your character up. How hard would it be to keep a classic musuo mode 
 in there?. And one last thing, Koei, can you add more that 2-player support. maybe a system link? 
 Oh yeah, the learning curve is a bit skewed because those dang instruction manuals never tell you 
 everything. Blast you Koei, and those skimpy manuals!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gingy_The_Kid
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 11, 2006 10:16 am PT
Review:  Dynasty Warriors (and the basic spin Samurai Warriors) has long been known for its repetitive mindless 
 combat against the hordes of brainless AIs. However, unlike the past, this incarnation on the 360 
 has an element to it similar to that of a board game.
  
  Basically you pick a series of policies, to govern the lands under your control. As well as moving 
 your troops around to protect your front, as well as to invade your foes. This aspect of the game 
 comes down to common sense: More land you control, more stuff you can do, more units you can control, 
 etc.
  
  Now at first it feels clunky, you easily grasp the basics of the game, garunteed that in under 
 an hour you will be up there with the pros. Want easy gamer points? Than this would be one of the 
 games you should choose. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Astrodude_5
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 5, 2006 1:59 pm PT
Review:  Man is this game fun. It's not real pretty, but at the end of the day, it's the game in my 360's 
 disk tray (well not really, I put it away, but you get what I mean) . As far as I'm concerned, this 
 is a great time to jump on the Dynasty Warriors bandwagon. 
  
  There are a bunch of things to do in Empires. You have empire mode itself, which in itself contains 
 two scenarios (Yellow Turban Rebellion and a Gathering of Heroes) and is completely replayable 
 because it'll be different each time. Empire mode is really fun, and you can choose where to begin 
 and where to invade or if you want to defend an attack or not. Also you can upgrade things, form 
 alliances, and hire new officers among many other things. You basically have 200 turns (or 200 
 years; 4 a year, I'm not exactly sure) to conquer ancient China. During each turn you get one battle 
 and a few strategic policies, some of which I have already mentioned. It really is fun. You can 
 also skip battles if you really want to.
  
  Then you have free mode where you can choose from available officers and set up a battle with a 
 great deal of customization. It can be quite fun for just a random battle with a friend.
  
  Speaking of that, co-op is available. In free mode or empire mode, you can plug in (or turn on) 
 a second controller and fight alongside a friend.
  
  But none of that really matters if the battles arent fun. But they ARE fun so the game is really 
 gripping and exciting. In game, there is also some very light strategy, such as attack base, defend 
 base, come to your character, or let them decide what they want to do. But really it comes down 
 to button mashing. But I really like it. Press (Xbox) [X] to normally attack, [Y] to do a charge 
 attack, or [B] to do a musou attack, which requires a full musou meter that refill by attacking, 
 charging with [B] , or just running. A musou attack is usually just an awesome multi-directional 
 attack to do major damage to a bunch of enemies. You can also shoot arrows to take down a foe or 
 two before they attack. And also, before they attack isnt hard because the AI is admittedly dimwitted, 
 except for officers. One thing I have to add is that you cant control the camera except for strafing 
 by holding down [LB] . Otherwise, it just follows your character and often blinds you. 
  
  And since this is an Xbox 360 game, I have to talk about graphics. Imagine if you hide your 360. 
 Ok, now your friend (whom Ill refer to as Bob.) walks in. Bob says Whoa, thats one amazing Xbox 
 game! but you have to tell him No its a decent Xbox 360 game. 
  
  But all lame attempts at humor aside, this is an average looking game. Its better (albeit slightly) 
 than an Xbox or PS2 game, but looks clean in HD and certainly doesnt look ugly or bad. Its an 
 Ok looking game, seriously.
  
  Also worth mentioning is sound. Its a very mixed bag. The soundtrack is awesome, and most battle 
 sounds are good, but the voice acting is cheesy and some battle cries sound gritty (I dont know 
 how else to describe it) . But sound doesnt hinder the experience at all, if anything the music 
 (oriental mixed with rock) just adds to the experience.
  
  So Dynasty Warriors 5: Empires, is a really fun game that deserves a try. Its entertaining, deep, 
 and will keep you busy for a long time. At first you'll be like WTF? But once you get the hang 
 of it it's purely fun. 
  
  This being my first DW game, I don't know much about the games except that this one is a whole 
 lotta fun. Oh and by the way it's only $40 *nudge nudge cough cough wink wink*.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: CrazedColombian
Rating: 7.8
Date: Apr 27, 2006 6:53 pm PT
Review:  Once again, the Empires expansion of Koei's long-running hack-and-slash action series turns out 
 to be endless button-mashing, but to me and many others I dont care its fun and cheap
  
  The Good: The empire mode is bigger than ever, with more scenarios, policies, and officers; the 
 strategy elements of the empire mode make the repetitive battles far easier to stomach; a good, 
 solid chunk of content. Over 250 officers and many scenerios. $40
  
  The Bad: Battles still tend to get rather tedious; 360 version looks more like an original xbox 
 game than a 360 game. They havent changed anything since dysnasty warrios 2
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dyaballikl
Rating: 8.2
Date: Apr 25, 2006 2:02 pm PT
Review:  And here we have yet another spin-off of a Dynasty Warriors game. There seem to be more DW's than 
 Mario games these days. But, if you're a huge DW lover like me, you appreciate every one of them!
 
  
  So, the basics. If you've never played one of these games before (get out from under your rock!) , 
 you play as a Chinese officer (you get a huge selection to choose from) around 200 a. d. during 
 the feudal era. In its simplest form, you run around killing thousands of helpless soldiers of 
 your opponents. A more detailed explanation would tell how you either play as the officer leading 
 a conquest or for the officer leading a conquest to take over the provinces of China (using a serious 
 war for peace rationality) to unite the land (Bush-esque, anyone?) .
  
  DW5 has added a lot more in depth playing than previous games. I didn't play the actual DW5, but 
 I played this game, Empires, so I'll compare to games before DW5. In previous games, you basically 
 just play the battles in a linear fashion. You got to choose your officer, and even your campaign, 
 but you didn't get to set up a whole lot reguarding the battles. Now, you control everything. You 
 control which province you start in, which order you take over the other areas. You also must manage 
 your troop count, and defend incoming attacks from other officers seeking power.
  
  As you invade other areas, you take their land over if you win, and get the option to hire the 
 officers that you captured during play. Each battle lasts one season, so you get 4 battles for 
 the whole year. And there are 25 different areas to conquer in all, before you unite the land. 
 In between battles, you'll do things such as form temporary alliances, strengthen your defenses, 
 recruit new officers and soldiers, and level up your weapons and officers' skills. So it has evolved 
 a great deal since the arcade style playing of DW2.
  
  Playing DW5: Empires on the 360 is certainly a treat, especially for us long time fans. The load 
 times are great, very quick and seldom. And the slow framerate that plagued the ps2 versions is 
 completely nonexistent here. Also, you can have many more soldiers on screen than in previous games. 
 One of the few downsides would be that the graphics are the same as the ps2 and xbox versions, 
 but frankly, that doesn't bother me in the least, since I get so immersed in the game.
  
  The controls are solid, using practically the same scheme used since DW2 first came out for the 
 PS2. It's nothing overcomplicated, but hey, if it's not broken, why fix it? This being another 
 reason why this game is perfect for fans of the series. Also, you'll enjoy the new varieties in 
 difficulty level. As previous games have has only 3 settings, DW5 adds 2 more on each end for the 
 uber n00bers and the uber vets.
  
  Thank God for custom soundtracks, though. Empires uses practically the same music as every one 
 of these games has been using, that heavy metal style of classic Chinese music. The one that loops 
 over and over again. It can get old, but thanks to the 360's custom soundtrack features, you won't 
 have to worry about that too much. The dialog is pretty good though. No A-list voice actors, but 
 a large selection of vocals, as well as everything said by an officer being spoken makes for a 
 solid listen experience.
  
  You'll could definitely get a good 50 hours out of this game, with all the gamer points to unlock, 
 as well as the supply of different conquests you can go through the game with. DW fans definitely 
 need to check this game out, you won't be disappointed.
  
  The good: Powerful 360 makes for great load times and lots of soldiers on screen. New campaign 
 mode is much more user controlled and in depth.
  
  The bad: Graphics haven't been changed from ps2 and xbox versions.
  
  The ugly: When you're 
 trying to kill a lowly foot soldier and all he does is sit there and block. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheVinster
Rating: 7.1
Date: Apr 22, 2006 4:46 pm PT
Review:  I, personally, loved the Dynasty Warriors franchise. Yet, I seriously think the series needs a 
 new leap in the right direction. Currently the company releases a new one and soon after, another 
 of the same number but with added features. This is actually the third Dynasty Warriors 5 addition. 
 I would love to see them spend their time on one large and fulfilling Dynasty Warriors with new 
 mechanics and a new creative idea to mix it up, too bad this isn't it. I rented this and that's 
 all it is really good for; a rental.
  
  Gameplay: Gameplay is as the past 5 games were. Press a button to attack, a button to mousu, that's 
 all you'll mostly do. I love the gameplay most of the time but running around in this game is a 
 CHORE. The battlefields are large but running (even riding a horse) takes forever to get around. 
 No matter how easy a map is you'll spend 15 of the 30 minutes travelling to outposts to control 
 them. Killing alot of enemies is fun (usually 200 or more each map) , but the AI is so... simple. 
 The NPC's stand around only attacking once in a while, the only smart NPC's are the generals which 
 are the ones who do the real damage, not the plain soldiers. Otherwise, this is a fun game to pick-up 
 and play alone or with your friends (co-op) .
  
  Graphics: The worst for the Xbox 360 yet. These graphics are Xbox original graphics, 'nuff said. 
 More enemies, with the 360's power I am sure, are able to be on the screen at once.
  
  Sound: People say the same things over and over again, music is kind of backseat in this game, 
 but the sound does what it is supposed to.
  
  Value: Little addition from the DW5: DX or whatever it is called, worth a rental, not a buy. I 
 hope they make a buffed up DW6 with less repetivity, less running, more attacking, and overall 
 bettter package. This game will keep you going for most of the days of your rental so you should 
 be kept busy for minimal time. Campaigns take forever, maybe 5 hours or so per, if not more, and 
 that's just one.
  
  Reviewer's Tilt: I love DW games ever since the 3rd, so I gave it an 8. Fun and simplicity in a 
 semi-lengthy package.
  
  Try this game out, rent it or if you're rich buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Joelias
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 13, 2006 5:44 am PT
Review:  This is a Good Game if you play DW I can Play This Game all Day it Fun too Kill 500 guys But it 
 will Be Good too see DW Online For PC & PS3 holp it For XBox360 & XBox Live All Can Play on one 
 Server That will be kooll But DW5E is a good game by all But it Looks like a XBox game in HDTV 
 720p But it look good i can say Koei Need More Game Likes This Koei good job & i Love DW But if 
 on the XBox DW5 Dont buy This One XBox DW5 Fun it not in HD But it Hell kooll Cant wt for DW BB 
 that will be soooooo kooll 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bluwave
Rating: 8.1
Date: Apr 10, 2006 10:25 pm PT
Review:  If you're having a boring day, and want to kill some time.... this is the game for it. I was easily 
 drawn into the games atmosphere, probably since I had a interest in the Romance of the Three Kingdoms 
 series. Graphics, while not top notch, are pretty good for a xbox port. Battles are a blast, but 
 can become repetitve at times. 
  
  My favorite part of the game is the strategic screen, while not having as many options as Romance 
 of the Three Kingdoms, it does get the job done without much of a learning curve (Great for new 
 players) . This is also one of the cheapest games you can get for the 360 right now, so its worth 
 the buy!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: StikyfingatipZ
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 7, 2006 10:31 pm PT
Review:  this game is highly highly higly addictive, to me atleast, just like the old dw's games the fighting 
 style is comfertable and simple but the great thing is all the small additions added, the strategy 
 part of dw5e is great, rather then playing the levels given to you u have the option to invade, 
 defend or skip a battle and let the computer handle ityou can have your own tiger, you can build 
 other generals strengths at the same time as the main one u play as so ur not the only one on the 
 field doing the dirty work, the AI is greatly improved and my personal favorite... you can see 
 all enemies on the screen rather than only seeing a limited amount and seeing the further ones 
 after you kill the nearest ones like the ps2 and xbox... this game is great... thats all there 
 is too it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: razakco2003
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 6, 2006 12:31 pm PT
Review:  A next-gen Dynasty Warriors? I was giddy with the possibilities, as I imagine anyone who played 
 a current-gen DW game would be. With the 360's power under the hood, the vast majority of complaints 
 about the series should be a thing of the past. While it's true that some are, Dynasty Warriors 
 5: Empires utilizes the technology about as well as someone using a chainsaw to open a can of Prego.
 
  
  You'd expect the most advancement graphically, but this is surprisingly similar to the look of 
 the series on Xbox and even PS2. The characters are better dressed and look sharper in HD, but 
 it'd be easy for someone to walk into the room and not think you're playing on your shiny new Xbox 
 360. Still, what is improved is welcome. The draw distance extends much further, and there's a 
 much greater number of troops on the screen at once.
  
  These things do make for smoother play than in the past, and I appreciate that. Also, slowdown 
 is nearly eliminated. I would've liked to see more lush environments, dazzling Musou attacks and 
 more varied soldier types, but those would've been for pure visual satisfaction and would not have 
 helped the gameplay as much as the improvements that exist.
  
  Speaking of gameplay, the bar for that aspect of Dynasty Warriors hasn't moved an inch in the console 
 generation shift. You'll find a dizzy combo with your character and use it repeatedly. Musuo attacks 
 do big damage; arrows take out far-away adversaries; and you can ride horses. Yawn. Same stuff, 
 different cover art.
  
  I have to say that Empire mode is one of the better things to happen to the franchise, and it works 
 for this game as much as it did for DW 4. Pick a spot on the map to call home, and work towards 
 securing the whole shebang. Make short-term alliances, hire new commanding officers, and build 
 up your cash reserves. It plays like a board game and adds a much-needed strategic element to things. 
 Dynasty Warriors 5: Empires has several more scenarios, which is good news for those who beat the 
 lone one in DW 4: E.
  
  Sadly, Empire mode is only joined by the generic Free mode in this game -- making it one of the 
 thinnest in terms of longevity. Imagine how cool it would've been to allow eight-player battles 
 over Xbox Live, with each side having four generals and a mess of drones. Nothing like that here, 
 mang. Not even any mini-games with Live scoreboards; just two modes, and a digital paperdoll way 
 to edit soldiers.
  
  Co-op is finally worth playing, however. Take on any battle in the game with a partner in split-screen 
 action. There's virtually no degradation in speed and action, making it a good deal of fun. Being 
 near your friend has the same effect as bodyguards in other DW titles: it connects you both with 
 an electrified line and strengthens attacks. I honestly prefer co-op to any mini-games or side 
 modes in other DW games, as it really adds something to the package.
  
  They say you can't teach an old dog new tricks. Evidently, you also can't teach an old Chinese 
 soldier new tactics. The AI in DW 5: Empires is only a small step up from previous entries -- which 
 is like a prospective driver only hitting three parked cars on a test when they hit four and ran 
 over a pedestrian the last time. It may be better, but it's still a failure. On 360, some of the 
 cloned shlubs will actually deflect some attacks every so often. This means every strike you execute 
 isn't a gimme; only about 95% of them are. Bosses are again super tough blocking machines, though 
 I noticed them toned down ever so much. Perhaps that's due to the fact that you're often fighting 
 two or three lieutenants or generals at a time.
  
  If you think the graphical improvements are a disappointment, then I urge you to mute your TV before 
 you play this game. The cheesy J-rock guitar riffs are the same, and DW 5: Empires has some of 
 the worst voiceovers this side of Resident Evil on the PSOne. You'll hear the same declarations 
 over and over during a single battle, and the sound effects don't help matters much. Dolby Digital 
 5.1 has rarely been so unnecessary.
  
  I've never pulled punches when it comes to Dynasty Warriors. After roughly 312 installments, I 
 don't think I should have to. I expected much more from this series on 360 -- a savior of the franchise, 
 if you will. I didn't get that. What I did get is some good co-op play, an extension of the Empire 
 mode that I enjoyed a while back, and a current-gen price tag acting almost as an apology from 
 Koei for the lack of innovation. This all makes Dynasty Warriors 5: Empires a roller coaster of 
 emotion for the discriminating gamer, and an ultimately average experience. Whether that's worth 
 your $40 is up to you.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: boofa_2001
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 5, 2006 2:39 pm PT
Review:  So its time for another installment in the Dynasty Warriors series. Empires is easily the best 
 "flavor" in the series since it was released as an "expansion" of 4. The new version adds alot 
 in the way of strategies. There are several additional action cards to be used in the world map.
 
  
  A standard beat-em-up title with a twist. You select a general from the area map to start off with. 
 The object of Empire mode is to take over all areas of the map. This is the meat of the game, though 
 there is a Free Mode that you can jump into a pre-determined scenario and go to town. You must 
 recruit officers and build your army to take over more and more of the map. If you're not careful 
 in your selection of areas to take over, it is easy to become surrounded and get pulverized. You 
 can form alliances with those around you to keep them from attacking, but you can Invade their 
 areas either. It can get monotonous, but the strategy element keeps it interesting.
  
  Those not familiar with the Dynasty Warriors series (where have you been?) may not be impressed 
 with this game. For a 360 game, the graphics are sub-par. They don't appear to be any better than 
 the PS2 version of the game. Having not played the PS2 version, I can't say for sure, but it appears 
 the "upgrade" that was made for the 360 was the vast improvement in the Fog of War. Fog of War 
 is Koei's way of keeping the game within the abilities of the system by limiting the number of 
 on-screen characters. On the 360, it appears to be virtually non-existent.
  
  The game is not without its problems. I have noticed in large battles with lots of enemies on screen 
 there can be some hitches in the framerate. Also, the collision detection could be better. I've 
 had guard captains or generals pinned against a wall in a base and they partially disappear into 
 it. I also don't like the fact the camera can't be moved with the right analog stick. The only 
 way to refocus the camera is with the guard button which centers the camera behind you. That may 
 be a product of reducing the effect on the Fog of War, who knows.
  
  Overall, from a fan of the series, I love this game. If you have never played any of the series, 
 this would be the one to get yourself introduced. Just don't expect flawless graphics and no bugs 
 from this budget title. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PillarofFaith
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 5, 2006 9:29 am PT
Review:  Alright everyone I know what you're thinking, "Not another one, same game new face." Not necessarily 
 the case in this re-release of Dynasty Warriors 5. Empires' primary gameplay is of course still 
 you're brainless hack and slash fighting where you get to run and around and rack up over a thousand 
 kills in a single map if you have the time to kill, but where Empires really stands out is it's 
 new use of strategy. In a Risk like fashion, you battle to build your own empire, taking control 
 province by province. On each province you are given options to upgrade your empire by swaying 
 the people to your side or hiring new officers. Each officer also has it's own army that can be 
 depleted without the necessary upgrade (though not likely to be depleted) . Also just to warn you 
 all I have never played any of the xtreme legends versions of this series because I'm a strict 
 Microsoft and Nintendo fan so if they had implemented any of these features into those games I 
 apologize, but for any of you fans of the series on Xbox it's a must have. Don't be discouraged 
 by the lack of next gen graphics, it's still a great game and graphics are second to gameplay. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Echo13791
Rating: 8.7
Date: Apr 2, 2006 9:12 pm PT
Review:  This game is the best Dynasty Warriors in the series by a landslide. The graphics are better than 
 all the previous ones (although for the 360, they aren't impressive) , the sounds and voice acting 
 are not very good (but thats not really impotant) , and the gameplay can be challenging (on hard 
 and chaos) , but the most important thing is that this game is pure fun. The empire mode is awsome. 
 You first chose a scenario (you unlock many of them) , then you chose a dynasty, or make your own, 
 and try and take over the whole map (China) . Along the way, you will make enemies and allies, grow 
 your army, upgrade your weapons, items, and character, and much more. There is also a character 
 creation mode, which is very fun. You can chose from many different weapons and fighting styles. 
 The free mode is also very fun. If you have a friend, the co-op is also very fun. I played ealier 
 with my friend (on gamespot, he is ULTIMATEZWARRIOR) through two different scenarios in empire 
 mode; and by the end, not only had we had a great time, but we had very powerful characters. For 
 Dynasty Warriors fans, this is a must have, and even if you haven; t ever played a Dynasty Warriors 
 game before, than try it out, it very fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ULTIMATEZWARRIO
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 2, 2006 7:08 am PT
Review:  Gameplay: The fighting style of Dynasty Warriors 5 is the same as in previous Dynasty Warriors 
 games. In this version there is no longer a Musou mode but it is replaced by empire mode. In empire 
 mode you pick a scenario, and then you choose a plot of land to start with. In Dynasty Warriors 
 5 you are allowed to create several characters, you can choose what weapon your character uses, 
 the hair styles the body armor, and as you progress through the game there are more choices. The 
 actual fighting is the same as usual, except this time instead if having gates where the enemy 
 spawns at they have bases. Empire mode requires more tactics and strategy than previous Dynasty 
 Warriors games. Since there are supply bases you need to take them over because that is where the 
 enemy spawns or respawns. Often times the enemy appears in the middle of your allied force and 
 march towards your main camp, and if your main camp is taken then you lose. It is important that 
 you come up with some kind of strategy that does not include going straight for the enemy base. 
 The overall gameplay is just as fun as ever.
  
  Graphics: The graphics are better than the graphics from previous Dynasty Warriors titles. Though 
 compared to other 360 games the graphics are not impressive. 
  
  Sound: you can play all Dynasty Warriors music tracks from the whole series. You can also listen 
 to your own music while playing. It has the same slashing sound and voice acting as previous titles.
 
  
  Tilt: The object of the game in empire mode is to conquer all of China within 200 turns. Along 
 the way you can make allies and employ new officers.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: MaChaorules
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 29, 2006 5:11 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: there is no new things to add to moves. all of it is the same as dynasty warriors 5 but 
 with the new strategy it gets better. With the new policies and tactics the game isn; t just about 
 killing as many people as you can and then kill the leader. In empires you have a higher chance 
 of losing then you do in rather of dw5 since you'll be outnumbered sometimes and your troop account 
 will effect if you win or not. The normal solo man kill as much people as you can wont help that 
 much as in the original.
  
  Graphics-In dynasty warriors terms this is a big leap from dynasty warriors 5 on the original xbox. 
 In 360 though this game doesn't look that good compared to other games on the 360. Dynasty warriors 
 isn't a awe inspiring master piece when it comes to graphics.
  
  Sound-some voices have been altered and now sound less cheesy but some such as Xu zhus still remain 
 in this game which takes away any seriousness feeling that make you think this was actually ancient 
 china. The dolby surround sound makes dynasty warriors sound much better though. Also you can choose 
 from dynasty warriors songs from other series than just dw5 or you can just play some music on 
 your HDD.
  
  Value-After you finish your first empire scenario you wont get bored. There are 5 other scenarios 
 you can play as well.
  
  Tilt-there really isn; t a storyline to dw5E other than everyone wants to unify china under there 
 rule 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
