-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Eat Lead: The Return of Matt Hazard
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/xbox360/action/eatleadthereturnofmatthazard/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Clever video game parody.
 Cover mechanics work well.
 Awesome music.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Derivative level design.
 Cheap enemy placement.
 Bosses are not fun.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Mar 10, 2009
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6
Critic Score: 5.6, 33 Review (s)
User Score: 6.8, 158 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: D3
Developer: Vicious Cycle
Genre: Modern Shooter
Date: Feb 26, 2009
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Eat Lead's humor carries its lackluster gameplay for only so long. 

  Humorous games usually fall into two distinct categories. There are games that use jokes to complement 
 the core experience, enhancing the already solid gameplay with clever jabs to lighten the mood. 
 And then there are games that rely completely on jests to provide entertainment, hoping that the 
 humor is strong enough to cover for a largely mediocre play experience. Unfortunately, Eat Lead: 
 The Return of Matt Hazard falls into the latter category. Although chuckle-worthy observations 
 are dropped at a frequent rate, the actual combat is not up to par. The game constantly points 
 out the foibles of other popular entries in the genre, but it does so by making you jump through 
 the same arduous hoops, which makes for less-than-thrilling action. Eat Lead is funny enough to 
 cover for some of its many missteps, but you'll have to stomach bland level design, nonexistent 
 enemy AI, and downright cheap boss fights to enjoy Matt Hazard's uneven "return" to gaming.  

 
           Joking about how many warehouse levels there are doesn't make warehouse levels OK.   
    

  Matt Hazard is the self-aware star of his own video game. He was once a prominent figure in the 
 industry, but after using his well-known face to cash in on a number of questionable spin-offs, 
 he quickly spiraled into obscurity. Eat Lead marks his triumphant return, but he is forced to fight 
 for his digital life against a creator who wants to make sure that this is his last game. The story 
 is amusing enough, poking fun at the multitude of real game characters who have overstayed their 
 welcome through the years, but it takes itself too seriously at times. The best moments of the 
 story happen in the opening cutscene, in which Hazard laments his decision to star in Haz-Mat Carts, 
 and during prebattle banter against the various bosses, wherein he mocks their cheesy dialogue 
 and stereotypical dreams to rule the world. However, the plot falters when it centers on Hazard's 
 nemesis. These scenes are simply not funny, forcing you to patiently wait until Hazard appears 
 onscreen once more to pull this game out of banal territory.  

  Matt Hazard's clever quips are able to entertain for only so long; at some point, you're going 
 to have to actually play. Eat Lead feels very similar to Gears of War. The cover system lets you 
 hunker down behind objects until enemies carelessly peek around corners, and it feels really good 
 here. You snap behind barriers with ease, and you can quickly and smoothly get out when enemies 
 flank you. There are a few twists to the classic formula as well. First of all, your fortifications 
 can be destroyed, which means that you won't be able to stay in one place for the entirety of battles. 
 Furthermore, you can aim at nearby objects and push a button to immediately run to them, which 
 makes it painless to move positions in midfight. Although your arsenal is limited, the included 
 guns usually pack a punch. Nailing an enemy in the head with a magnum from across the screen is 
 satisfying, and shooting a grenade into a group of closely packed zombies results in a glorious 
 explosion of flopping rag-doll bodies.  

  When Eat Lead is clicking, the combat is really fun and plays like a faster, bloodless version 
 of Gears of War. But its reliance on parody means that the game frequently stumbles. The level 
 design is bland and uninspired, shepherding you from one forgettable warehouse to another. Although 
 the layouts do an adequate job of poking fun at other games, the formula quickly gets old. Battles 
 are usually staged in large environments with pieces of cover liberally sprinkled around, which 
 makes for a repetitive experience. Hazard jokes about predictable enemy placement and ambushes 
 that never surprise, but just because he is aware of the sloppy level design doesn't mean that 
 it's actually fun to continually play through the same tired cliches.  

  Your enemies are sorely lacking in intelligence, exhibiting only two different maneuvers in combat. 
 During most fights, enemies will stand behind cover, giving you time to meticulously line up their 
 noggins in your sights for a quick death. At other times, they will rush at you, which borders 
 on cheap because Hazard is not well equipped to handle close encounters. Enemies also frequently 
 spawn directly behind you, which can lead to unanticipated deaths if you don't hear them teleport 
 in. At least the enemies you fight are funny. One level has you rescue a green-clad soldier named 
 Master Chef while you mow down a horde of the often-mocked space marines. When you finish one off, 
 you tauntingly yell, "Semper die!" In another level, you battle enemies from a water-based shooter 
 called Soak 'Em, and they shout "Damp if you do, damp if you don't" when you duck behind cover. 

           The master shield temporarily makes you invincible, even against water guns.      

 
  The boss fights are as amusing as the enemies, but finishing them can be cheap and frustrating. 
 You battle one sniper boss on three separate occasions, and his instant-kill gun will lead to repeated 
 failure until you figure out his pattern. Other bosses summon a never-ending horde of enemies that 
 you must fight off while you try to pepper the main baddie from afar. Despite these problems, these 
 encounters are still enjoyable because of the delightful dialogue beforehand. During one memorable 
 scene, you square off against a character pulled straight from a generic role-playing game. The 
 typical cliches are here -- flamboyantly dressed villain spouting meandering statements with an overabundance 
 of ellipses -- and Hazard frequently points out his enemies' annoying quirks.  

  The music in Eat Lead uses the cheesy allure of '80s rock to energize the experience. The standard 
 theme continues throughout the game, and its catchy synthesized riff is enjoyable and hummable. 
 Although it surfaces again and again throughout the game, it fits the mood perfectly and never 
 gets old. Various motifs also sprout up to complement the theme of each level. The two-dimensional 
 Waferthin troops come with their own German-inspired music, and another nice touch is the Japanese 
 tune when you're shooting up a sushi restaurant. The music is a standout; combined with Hazard's 
 many memorable quips, it provides the backbone for this otherwise uninspired game.  

  Eat Lead's reliance on parody is a detriment to its game design. The repetitive levels and cheap 
 enemy encounters hold back what is a fundamentally sound shooter. But though the gameplay frequently 
 stumbles, the humor is able to rise up in its place, which makes the experience more enjoyable 
 than the lackluster action promises. With no multiplayer mode, cooperative play, or hidden goodies 
 waiting to uncover, replay value is extremely limited, but it takes about 10 hours to play through 
 the campaign. Despite its problems, Eat Lead is still a fun game, but its jokes will never make 
 you forget about its many missteps.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (12 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: jbox32
Rating: 5.5
Date: Apr 13, 2009 1:12 pm PT
Review:  Eat Lead is a game the i culd probaly crap out of my butthole. its sucks nugget and yea. the game 
 is easy achievemtns wise and poops in the cellular device category. it kinda stanx if u no wat 
 imean but lik all and all i aight. but chu mighttttt likage halo 3 were dis one time i got a triple 
 kill and i did all des cool monkey butt stuff and i should have listen to my friends is a good 
 song. God bless america day an a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a 
 a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a aa a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a penis fdsa 
 fdsafdsafdsaf fdsa fdsa fdsa fdsafd safdsa god bless this rebview! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! 
 ! BUT LIKE NOT JUSAT LIKE BUY DIS HOLE SHING DINGG LA WING OF A MFin game just bcuz it looks all 
 comical and crap. it aint dat tight if u no wat i mean i am a completeemendo beastly beast you 
 k wat i taxing bout u cuz u shuld. howdy do powerded nut sack ily this review is tight god bless 
 you all 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zeus_gb
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 10, 2009 4:48 am PT
Review:  You take on the role on Matt Hazard a washed up gaming action hero who's career has taken a slid 
 recently. Like all washed up gaming action heroes you now eat and drink too much and stay at home 
 all day watching TV. Suddenly the game developer you work for wants to make another Matt Hazard 
 game and you jump at the chance but not everything is as it appears. It's Hazard Time!
  
  Good Points:
  
  Some laugh out loud moments.
  A good mixture of achievements, both easy and 
 hard.
  Interesting and unusual story.
  Nice selection of weapons.
  Cover mechanic.
  
  Bad Points:
  
  Sometimes the humor isn't all that funny.
  Guns feel a little bit weak.
 
  Hit detection is off at times.
  Kinda hard to gauge health.
  Repetitive/copy and paste environments
  
  Matt Hazard is one of those games that tries to introduce 
 humor into the mix. Sometimes it's laugh out loud funny, for example when you fight 2D Nazis (homage 
 to Wolfenstein 3D) and they turn sideways so that you can damage them. Another example would be 
 when the actual game producer of the game in the real world says that he's a producer and doesn't 
 play the games. The part that had me laughing out loud was when you have to fight a Japanese RPG 
 style boss, complete with written dialog.
  With all these great pieces of humor some of it seems a little bit wide of the mark or even forced, 
 which I thought was a real shame.
  
  The achievements are both easy and hard although most are easy to get. Watching the game credits 
 gives you 60 points, completing the tutorial gives you 10 points, pausing the game gives you 5 
 points. So there's plenty of points to be had and after my first play though I got over 800 achievement 
 points. The harder achievements include killing three testers with one grenade or finishing the 
 game on Maximum Hazard mode.
  
  Eat Lead's whole story is strange, wacky, unusual or what ever word would describe it better. It's 
 certain not one of the run of the mill shooter stories such as Earth is in danger from alien invasion 
 or zombies are everywhere, you know the usual kind.
  
  Every shooter has weapons and Eat Lead is no exception to this gaming law. You are given a 9mm 
 to start but quickly find other weapons such as the shotgun, AK47, water pistol, submachine gun, 
 water submachine gun, plasma rifle, plasma pistol, six shooters, Magnum, grenade launcher and sniper 
 rifle.
  With this quite sizable arsenal at your disposable you only get to carry two weapons at a time 
 and each weapon has a 50 kills achievement linked to it.
  Some of the guns feel quite weak then shooting the enemies but I suppose some of this can be attributed 
 to certain enemies having specific weakness, such as the enemies with the water guns have a weakness 
 to water based weapons.
  
  One of the things that becomes oblivious in some places is the hit detection being a little bit 
 on the dodgy side. I know I shot quite a very enemies with head shots and they didn't fall down 
 dead. Certain enemies such as the developer/tester avatars or the space marines do take more than 
 one head shot to kill but the instances I observed were with the construction workers.
  
  Finding cover is the order of the day especially when you crank up the difficulty level. There 
 are crates, walls and other items strewn around each level that you can take cover behind. However 
 you will be forced to move because if the object you are taking cover behind takes too much damage 
 it will de-rez (homage to the film Tron) . The cover system is easy to use, stand next to piece 
 of cover to take cover or point your cross hair and press Y to go to that cover and hide behind 
 it. You can also move around you cover and move from one piece of cover to another if the pieces 
 of cover a close enough together. The one part of the cover mechanic that I liked was the roll 
 over the cover you hiding behind, that effect looks great. There's nothing like have an enemy running 
 at you while shooting and you roll over your cover and hit said enemy straight in the face with 
 a shotgun blast... very cool!
  
  I don't know if it's just me but Eat Lead's regenerating health system seems to make it hard to 
 judge just how much health you actually have. When your health it low the screen washes out but 
 it seems a little bit of inconsistency in the amount of damage you can take after the screen washes 
 out.
  
  Now for the most game damning thing. Eat Lead has very repetitive levels, you'll run through hallways 
 shoot people and then come to a big room where the doors will shut and enemies and cover will appear. 
 As soon as you see a big room you automatically know what's going to happen, an ambush. The levels 
 are also copied and pasted for the most part, that big room you fought your way through a while 
 back will appear later on in the level and it will appear exactly the same.
  
  Overall Eat Lead: The Return of Matt Hazard is one of those games that just wants to entertain 
 you while being as silly and humorous as it came be, which it does for a while but there's no escaping 
 it's repetitive nature and it's other flaws.
  After I had finished playing it I didn't feel like I wanted to play it again and that's a really 
 bad sign. 
  This game is for people who want a few hours of OK game play and some humor or people who just 
 want to get some easy achievements.
  
  Rent it first! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PSfanboy101
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 9, 2009 3:27 am PT
Review:  Story - 
  
  The story is pretty strange but is FANTASIC in my opionion, it is wacky, new and really enjoyable. 
 
  
  Matt hazard is a famous video game character who has stared in hits games like 'Matt hazard 3D' 
 and more but when stars in a new game thing arnt as expected.
  
  The story is a parody of the last 25 years of gaming and parodys popular games such as Final fantasy, 
 Mario, Tomb raider, Wolfenstein & more!
  
  (I cant really say much more without spoiling the story!) 
  
  9/10
  
  Graphics -
  
 
  Nothing new here! pretty good graphics for a next gen game though! The game does have some lighting 
 issues though.
  
  8/10
  
  Gameplay - 
  
  Matt hazard is a Third person shooter and uses the cover system (gears of war, uncharted) It works 
 pretty well but somtimes you will find you are behind an object you werent aiming for. The gameplay 
 is fun and fairly quick and there is a reasonable amount of guns in the game, there isnt alot of 
 gameplay issues but some can really annoy you such as the amoutn of time it take you to jump over 
 the oblect you are behind but overall the gameplay is VERY FUN!
  
  8/10
  
  
  Overall -
  
  Eat Lead: The return of Matt Hazard is a very fun xbox 360 title despite the mediocore 
 review in i were you i would buy this game or at least give it a rent
  
  8.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ratchet573
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 4, 2009 5:46 pm PT
Review:  This game is one of those games that is hard to review, because it is supposed to parody itself. 
 Does that mean that all the problems it has are supposed to add to the comedy?
  
  Whatever it means, this game is an alright rental. You can beat it in around seven or eight hours, 
 and there is not much incentive to go back. 
  
  The story is pretty cool and has all kinds of funny moments and parodies that left me laughing. 
 
  
  The graphics are alright, but not at all perfect for the system. 
  
  One thing I hated were the repetitive and stupid enemies. There were some good ideas in this game 
 for enemies, but you just keep fighting them over and over and over. It gets annoying. And the 
 AI are pathetic. They sometimes hide behind cover when you can clearly get a shot at them, they 
 also like to shoot at me continually when I am behind cover that can't be destroyed. 
  
  Another thing I hated was the way the game kept on going and going. There was a point where you 
 couldn't wait for it to end, and then it goes and continues on. 
  
  Why did I put that the game was hard? Because once you get to the boss battles, good luck. One 
 boss was a Russian that had a bomb next to where he hid. Easy enough right? Minus the fact that 
 there was an infinite number of enemies coming at you and the boss kept hiding right in front of 
 the bomb, and killing you. Plus, it never explained not to shoot at the giant globe they call a 
 bomb at first. 
  
  Overall, the game dragged on and did nothing impressive. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rick-garza
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 2, 2009 12:56 am PT
Review:  Well from what i just experienced was a instant classic! "Even though there is no online play" 
 The reason i even picked this game up is because i seen all the horrible reviews it had.. and i 
 was like well i'll see for myself.. and i was very very surprised.. even though i died like the 
 first "10"minutes which is not normal for me.. i honestly enjoyed this shooter! from russians, 
 to zombies, to chicks with dual welding submachine guns, and 2d nazis! it is a fun game "If you 
 have humor like me" and not being lame "like those serious online gamers who get mad when i make 
 fart noises into the mic" . i honestly cant believe people would rate this game Any lower then 
 7 or 8 anyays on with the review!..
  
  Story:
  Its a very original story! People say its stupid but i think this idea was Grand! A Game character 
 playing a game character in a video game.. i mean come on! its not like alot of other games storys 
 like.. save the world type of ish.. i mean how many times can you save a city from crime.. or save 
 the earth from aliens/ghosts.. so on..
  
  Graphics:
  There graphics are pretty neat.. i seen alot of people b*tching about graphics and whatnot.. ive 
 seen alot worse on the 360 system. the lighting effects are pretty nice and the textures are pretty 
 cool also. the graphics are the best when they take a crack at wolfenstein 3-d. lol .. but on some 
 parts of the game there isnt shadow when you would expect to see one.. but hey all games have that 
 f-- k up even your precious call of duty games do... and it not a fps is has 3rd person but like 
 Army of Two 3rd person..
  
  Replay Value:
  I would say the replay value for this game is pretty good i am definitely going to replay it.. 
 cause i think Will Arnett is awesome! And the humor is there and very good.. i know probably after 
 about 50 hours the humor will get old.. but hey same with comedy movies...
  
  Fun Factor:
  Its only going to be fun if you play it with a sense of humor unlike a lot of other 
 jackasses who gave it a bad rating. Just cause there hardcore online call of duty m-14 wielding 
 battle rifle humping jumping 80 feet in the air halo heads.. this game would be more fans of other 
 comedic games like.. duke nukem. and the best part is when they crack at old games like Mario lol
 
  
  Final Thoughts:
  Its almost 3am and im tired.. but i just wanted to let the world know. Do not listen to these people 
 hating this game.. this game is actually pretty good.. if your afriad to buy it.. rent it first 
 if you like it you like it.. if you dont then you dont.. This game is actually very underrated. 
 at first look you will be like.. ehhhh.. but after the first level you will finally get why they 
 put you in the most mediocre of places.. cause there making fun of the other shooters thats out.. 
 and they did a good job doing it! 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrnivek
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 27, 2009 2:26 pm PT
Review:  You know I went into this game with low expectations and didn't think it was all that bad. The 
 story is cheesy with Matt Hazard being a washed up video game hero making fun of the very video 
 game he is in. I think the game was long enough that this didn't get too annoying. I think one 
 of the funnier lines was when your character tells you he is going to finish things up and get 
 the so and so achievement.
  
  About the achievements, you can't beat getting 60 achievement points for just watching the credits. 
 You don't even have to beat the game to watch the credits either The game was pretty generous 
 with the achievement points and I think I got 700 or so without really trying to get any of them. 
 
  
  But a couple of things did annoy me during the game, first the aiming was just off. A lot of times 
 I swear I was aiming at the enemy and crosshairs were red but still it didn't seem like I was registering 
 a hit. Second, I died a lot and didn't seem to have a full sense of how close my character was 
 to dying. One time I might just take shot after shot and still live and the other I would peak 
 around the corner and bang. Dead Frustrating but I kept playing.
  
  Definitely a rent and as for buying it would have to be in a pretty cheap bargain bin. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: caboose84
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 26, 2009 5:58 am PT
Review:  I'm gonna be honest, I was quite surprised when I played this game and it was actually good. It's 
 stupid but in a funny sence and it has a good cover mechanic and a few parodies of classic games 
 and movies plus great gameplay.
  You're Matt Hazzard, you were at the top of the video game characters in the 80's and 90's but 
 when your company let you put the game decisions in your hands, everything crashed and burnned 
 fast. You get a call from the people who baught your company to do a new game but as you beat the 
 first level, you find that you were to be terminated as main character and that duty was to be 
 handed off to this Terminater reject. This girl "QA" helps you by pausing the game and letting 
 you take down Sting Sniperscope and she warps you to the new level.
  The company manager Walley finds out what has happened and uses everything he can such as bringing 
 all your previous enemies from your old video games back and using your friends as bait to kill 
 you and keep you from beating the last level.
  The enemies have quite a wide veriety such as cowboys, Soviet Russians, space marines, zombies 
 and even Special Ops troops with deadly water guns.
  This game is great for corny jokes that still somehow make you laugh (at least on the inside) and 
 great gameplay and action.
  I wouldn't review a game that I wouldn't reccomend to somone unlike most people who only wright 
 reviews to keep you from buying games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LtReviews
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 22, 2009 9:41 pm PT
Review:  He's finnally back, the greatest action-game hero ever; MATT HAZARD.
  Sure, for us fans, Matt Hazard's previous non-violent third-person watergun shooter "Soak'em" was 
 a real dissapointment since it followed the classic "Matt Hazard: You Only Live 1317 Times" spy-action 
 game. But it's a great return to the classic "Shoot everything that moves" Matt Hazard games. Speaking 
 of which, one of your first objectives in the game is "Shoot everything that moves", so you will 
 get a sizeable helping of hazard.
  
  Also, if the thought of having an American action-game hero shoot the hell out of those annoying 
 Japanese RPG boss-characters makes you feel warm and fuzzy on the inside, I suggest you give this 
 game a look.
  
  In this game, Matt Hazard beats the hell out of the following enemies:
  2D Nazis
  Sexually Ambiguous Sorcerers 
  Zombies
  Squirt-gun-wielding enemies
  Sexually 
 Ambiguous 2D Nazi-Zombies-Sorcerers wielding squirt guns
  ... And many more!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: -CANUCK-
Rating: 5.5
Date: Mar 17, 2009 10:25 am PT
Review:  Eat Lead : The Return of Matt Hazard : A Meta-third person Meta-cover-based Meta-shooter. 
  
  Forgetting that Eat Lead is billed as a spoof of the video game industry, lets talk about the 
 gameplay first. Your objective, more often than not, is to go from Point A to Point B in a level 
 and shootwell most of the enemies that move. If the chance to run by an enemy presented itself, 
 I sure as hell took it. The game has a cover mechanic akin to Gears of War, but it's certainly 
 not as well thought out as Gears of War, being that most of the time, Matt's crouching animation 
 was taller than the crate he was leaning by, but despite his vulnerable head, I was still safe 
 from enemy attacks thanks to some nimrodic AI. In fact, the lack of intelligence made me question 
 the use of cover questionable; they'll stand in their single location, either alternating from 
 cover to fire at you or just stand there, striking a pose while firing their penis extension. That, 
 or they'll bum rush you with little regard for their own health, which in of itself seems like 
 a smart strategy since Hazard's clumsy controls make him slow to react. Often I found the best 
 tactic to be to soak up the damage (your health regenerates itself quickly) and execute enemies 
 with the clunky, pre-programmed three-hit combo, which I guess makes this game partially a crappy 
 Meta-beat em up too.
  
  Bosses are a nuisance and tend to comprise of someone shooting at you while lesser enemies respawn 
 at an annoying rate. And there's some annoying sniper sequences sprinkled around just to help me 
 remove stars from the final score. The selection of weapons consist of the typical array of handguns, 
 machine guns and ragdoll physics to accompany the chaos. Level designs include of your typical 
 warehouses, restaurants and other attempts at real world settings, so I guess you can call Matt 
 Hazard a painfully average, run of the mill shooter, except with cowboys randomly spawning in the 
 area. Now, for the story
  
  Story : Video game companies are akin to record labels or movie studios, and video games are filmed 
 on virtual sets, like movies, in the Matt Hazard universe. Matt himself is this supposed first 
 person shooter icon, like a Duke Nukem without the sense of humor or a Doom marine without the 
 common sense to stay quiet. After his career is sabotaged by a kart-racing side project, he attempts 
 to make his comeback starring in a Red Steel knockoff (is that really a good idea?) . However, Tron-like 
 outside programmer forces are sabotaging his efforts and Matt must take action into his own hands. 
 Do you remember in kindergarten, when you played Make Belief with the kids, and there was always 
 the one kid whose superpower was that he had every superpower and every time you struck him with 
 an imaginary lightning bolt, he'd suddenly declare that he was invincible to lightning bolts? Matt 
 Hazard is that kid. He makes a terrible dick joke at the introductory cutscene and he comes across 
 more as a whiny child than the parody of a testosterone-fueled action hero. 
  
  I have a theory, and this seems like a safe bet. Eat Lead was originally going to be a serious 
 action game, where a serious action hero goes through warehouses and other realistic settings fighting 
 realistic enemies. But upon realizing that this game was turning out to be a sub-par, clich, uninspired 
 bargain bin accomplice, the developers switched directions and decided to make fun of their own 
 bland creation. Matt makes jokes about the insipidness of his enemies, locales, the presence of 
 a tutorial, and so forth, but the game's self-deprecating humour to itself doesn't make it funny, 
 or the bland gameplay conventions anymore enjoyable. There's a free Xbox Achievement called "Multiplayer 
 Master!" that points out how the game doesn't have any multiplayer. I guess I shouldn't complain 
 about a lack of multiplayer being that no one else should want to play this online.
  
  There are a few moments that put a smile on my face. The presence of power-ups that make Matt invulnerable 
 or strengthen his attacks (called Maximum Hazard) are fun little throwbacks to Doom and the like. 
 Matt has a few good lines, and I can't help but enjoy the 80s-style power chord theme song that 
 reminded me of hokier days. But many of the jokes are rather juvenile. When was the last time an 
 Arnold Schwarzenegger impersonator was funny? But I almost want to say that Eat Lead's biggest 
 crime is that it takes itself too seriously at times. Many of the cutscenes don't have any joke 
 but exist to add exposition to the whole "game within a game" notion, like I'm supposed to treat 
 this like a serious plot. 
  
  The Simpsons Game was a similar case; it was a basic beat-em-up disguised as a scathing parody 
 of the video game industry. Except that game, for its faults, never ran out of good jokes and was 
 built from the ground-up to be a comedy piece. Get that game if you want a humourous way to spend 
 fifty bucks. Eat Lead is amateurishly written, making the most predictable jokes in a vain attempt 
 to cover up its game's weaknesses. As an action game, it's a poor man's Gears of War, a rushed, 
 low-rate shooter with faulty and dull gameplay. And for Matt Hazard, this is a comeback on par 
 with Chinese Democracy. 
  
  2 stars 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jh76533
Rating: 6
Date: Mar 5, 2009 9:26 pm PT
Review:  I should of known that there was something about this game when i didn't see actual game play on 
 the back of the cover, but yet i bought it because i cant get enough of shooting games. As i played 
 the first couple of stages with its cheesy game play i already started seeing repetitiveness in 
 the AI. Along with that the computers are really stupid and the only way they can kill you basically 
 is if they sneak up behind you. The guns in the game are pretty cool with a good selection of them. 
 Repetitive lines throughout the game can get real annoying to you and it just seems like max hazzard 
 was made out to be stupid and annoying too. The stages start to all basically beome alike and extrememly 
 boring. I played and beat the game in three days whit out even giving it my full attention. After 
 the first 3 stages i realized this game was a waste and i kept playing to see if it gets better 
 and it sadly doesnt but instead just throws the same thing at you time after time. Sure you get 
 new enemies but there still all stupid. Max Hazzards special power where you can turn people into 
 ice or light them on fire is really just a waste because you really don't need it. A good shooter 
 has you sitting on the edge of your seat waiting for whats next and getting you into the game and 
 even though this game advertised to have humor in it, it still didnt make up for a bad shooter. 
 I guess i should of realized this game was that bad when it comes new for $50 instead of $60. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: godzillab10
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 3, 2009 1:44 pm PT
Review:  Eat lead is the comeback of the infamous Matt Hazard, voiced by funny man Will Arnett. The game 
 plays like most standard 3rd person shooters and unfortunately offers nothing new to the 3rd person 
 game style, which is one reason I rate this game an 8 other than a 10. Looking past that I loved 
 the feel of the game immediately, the first words out of my mouth were "This feels a lot like Gears 
 does." You can take cover, run and shoot, focus aim, and an all so useful blind shot while in cover. 
 The character bares a striking resemblance in looks and comedic quirks to Time Splitters own Agent 
 Cortez. His antics annoy other characters while giving him some comedic relief and I have yet to 
 hear the same phrase more than once. The action is very fast paced and the A. I. is quite smart. 
 They've attempted to flank me, they destroy my cover a lot, and they provide suppressing fire for 
 one another from time to time. They even tend to charge you when your armor is low. 
  
  There is no multi-player which made me deduct another point. This game had loads of potential for 
 it too.
  
  The variety of weapons thus far is incredible. So far I've picked up
  p90, Desert Eagle, AK-47, Sub-Machine gun, Hazzard Pistol, Shot Gun, Sniper Rifle, Grenade Launcher, 
 Water Pistol, and a Water Rifle. Yes, water guns people. Quite Effective ones too.
  
  The story is very unique, the new CEO of your game company Willy, voiced by Neil Patrick Harris, 
 wants to kill off Matt Hazard because he never could beat any of the Matt Hazard games ever. So 
 he programs enemies from Hazard's past to kill him so he can be eliminated and the new hero, Snipe, 
 can take his place.
  
  I bought this as a risk and it was worth it through and through. It's available for a discounted 
 price of $49.99, not very surprising since many comeback games are rather risque because the audience 
 has changed dramatically, but whether your a Matt Hazard veteran or you've never heard of the guy 
 until now, this game is definitely worth your while. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: nygiants1080
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 1, 2009 12:40 am PT
Review:  Eat Lead: The Return of Matt Hazard is the first installment about a washed up old video game icon 
 that was in his prime in the 80's and 90's. In the next-generation on gaming he was forgotten until 
 the new CEO of the company, Wally (Played by Neil Patrick Harris) brings Matt Hazard back to the 
 video game world. Wally's primary goal is to kill Hazard because when Wally was a kid, he could 
 be every video game except the Matt Hazard series.
  
  Now Hazard is in a video game with hacks of his old enemies appearing and lots of bad guys to kick 
 ass and take names. The game blends humor and action very well and kept me entertained and laughing 
 the whole way through. Eat Lead is a 3rd person shooter with a cover system that works well. The 
 shooting is good, but not great and feels a little loose at times.
  
  The graphics in Eat Lead are pretty impressive for a budget company such as D3. Though they arn't 
 on par with games such as Halo 3 and Gears of War 2 they certainly arn't terrible. The level designs 
 don't look stunning but the character model of Matt Hazard is great.
  
  The games A. I. is medicore at best but still isn't so bad that it ruins the game. I liked how the 
 game mixes the levels up nicely and keeps new and fresh enemeis coming from Hazard's previous games 
 (Such as Zombies and Water gun Marines in the same level) .
  
  The game has a great sense of humor and I thought it was down right hillarious at times. The loading 
 screen has witty comments and are good for a quick giggle.
  
  The game only has a single player and no multiplayer (oddly enough) which makes its replay value 
 pretty slim. If you beat it once, you may play through it again on the hardest difficulty but after 
 that its done with.
  
  Although the game isn't the next game of the year or the best shooter on the market it is a fun 
 game and i'd reccommend it to anyone that was interested in it. I was looking forward to it and 
 it didn't dissapoint me. I though it was a great purchase and soild game put together by a low 
 budget company.
  
  IT'S HAZARD TIME! 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
