-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Enchanted Arms
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/xbox360/rpg/emenchantarm/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Surprisingly natural, funny dialogue for a role-playing game.
 unique battle system is fun and challenging.
 the collectible golems are all unique and useful.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Awful English voice acting.
 too much tedious backtracking through large, vacant, and uninteresting areas.
 aside from some flashy battle animations, the visuals are unimpressive.
 it's frequently difficult to get a good view of the battlefield.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Aug 31, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.1
Critic Score: 7.2, 67 Review (s)
User Score: 7.7, 2,910 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Ubisoft
Developer: From Software
Genre: Role-Playing
Date: Aug 29, 2006
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Enchanted Arms is a capable and often enjoyable role-playing game, but it's also one that you'll 
 likely forget as soon as you finish it. 

  Enchanted Arms is the first Japanese role-playing game for the Xbox 360, and while it isn't overly 
 impressive or memorable, it's a capable representative for games of its type. The game sticks closely 
 to the console role-playing template made popular by the Final Fantasy series, to the point that 
 even the victory music that plays after each battle sounds eerily familiar. Androgynous characters, 
 melodramatic plotlines, random encounters, and ridiculously overblown battles form the basis of 
 Enchanted Arms, and if you have any previous experience with this type of game, you'll feel like 
 you've seen it all before. Despite that, if you give it plenty of time, you'll find that Enchanted 
 Arms is still worth playing if you have any interest in role-playing games.  

          Golems are magic creatures that can do just about anything: make pizza, guard treasures, 
 destroy the world -- all the stuff that humans can't be bothered with.     

  You've heard this story before. A feisty young man with no memory of his past discovers within 
 himself a hidden power capable of saving -- or destroying -- the world. His name is Atsuma, and he's 
 a student at Enchant University, where he studies a type of weak magic known as enchanting. However, 
 some people seek a more powerful form of magic, which has been lost for the past 1,000 years. Turns 
 out that a millennium ago, humans were quite proficient with magic and used it to create artificial 
 servant creatures, known as golems. As you might expect, the golems one day went berserk and turned 
 on mankind, nearly destroying the world in what's known as The Golem War. The most powerful of 
 these creatures, called devil golems, were sealed away to prevent another disaster. Flash forward 
 to present day, and some conniving megalomaniacs start fussing with the seals to draw upon the 
 powerful magic that lies within. At this point, Atsuma's destiny as savior of the universe is revealed, 
 along with a mysterious power that resides in his right arm.  

  As Atsuma, it's up to you to keep these nasty golems in check, which you do by running around the 
 world battling not only golems, but also the humans who are attempting to manipulate them. Enchanted 
 Arms plays like a traditional console role-playing game. You spend most of the time running through 
 dungeons or down long, linear paths from one city to another, engaging in random encounters, collecting 
 money and items, and developing your characters to make them stronger. Between battles, you'll 
 often be treated to some heavy dialogue or the occasional prerendered cinematic sequence.  

  The story sequences in the game can be quite lengthy, with conversations lasting several minutes. 
 You might be tempted to simply skip through all the chatter, but if you do that you'll miss out 
 on a lot of the charm that Enchanted Arms has to offer. The dialogue, while sometimes a bit overdone, 
 is relatively natural and engaging for a role-playing game. There aren't many characters in the 
 game, but that works to its advantage by letting you focus on the dynamic between four entertaining 
 personalities. There's also plenty of humor, and although a lot of it is downright silly, it doesn't 
 feel forced and is funny enough to prevent your eyes from glazing over during every story sequence. 

  The nuts and bolts of the game are simple but effective. Throughout most of the game, you'll be 
 running on a linear path from one point to another. Sometimes you'll run from one town to another, 
 and other times you'll be running from the beginning of a dungeon to the obligatory boss fight 
 at the end of that dungeon. While in these areas, you'll be drawn into battle with a random assortment 
 of enemies every several steps. The encounter rate is usually reasonable, letting you cover plenty 
 of ground between battles. Sometimes, however, you'll find yourself going from one battle to another 
 every few steps, which quickly gets tiresome. It doesn't help that the game requires you to backtrack 
 through these large, empty spaces several times, which is boring and takes quite awhile since you're 
 prone to being attacked every step of the way.  

          The battle system may look complex, but once you pick up the basics, it's quite simple. 
     

  The nature of the combat system in Enchanted Arms results in some often very lengthy battles. That 
 said, the system is fun and challenging most of the time. Each battle takes place on a flat, 6x4 
 grid that is divided down the center. Your party is randomly arranged on one half of the grid, 
 while your enemies are on the other. You can't pass the center line into the enemy grid, so you 
 have to plan your attacks accordingly. You can have up to four characters in your party, and during 
 your turn, you can move those characters and assign actions in any order. Once you've done that, 
 you press go and the actions are carried out. The battles all come down to positioning, because 
 each attack has a specific range and pattern. Some attacks will hit only a single square, others 
 will hit a line of squares, and still others will hit an entire enemy area. By balancing your party 
 so that you have a proper mix of ranged and direct attacks, you can be ready to face any enemy. 
 The battle system doesn't require much in the way of strategy, but it does demand a bit more than 
 simply selecting the attack command over and over. It feels almost like a puzzle game because you 
 have to figure out the best order and position for each of your characters to maximize damage and 
 minimize risk.     

  Even if you have a team of direct attackers against a group of ranged enemies, you usually won't 
 have a problem winning. The game is very forgiving, and enemies will often move within range of 
 your attacks, if for no other reason than to avoid a stalemate situation. Between battles, your 
 characters automatically regenerate both their health points and their ether points, which are 
 required to perform all attacks. However, over time your characters will lose vitality points, 
 and characters with no vitality points left won't regenerate any health or ether points between 
 battles until you reach a replenishing station. This system requires you to keep plenty of extra 
 characters on reserve to be swapped in for characters who have expended all their vitality points. 
 The system works well, if only because it gives you incentive to make use of all your characters, 
 rather than using just a few powerhouses throughout the entire game.  

          Running through environments like these gets dull very quickly.     

  Having extra 
 characters is never a problem in Enchanted Arms. Throughout the world, you'll encounter golems, 
 and usually if you defeat one of these creatures in battle, you'll get its core, which can be used 
 along with some other items to synthesize that golem. This is just a roundabout way of recruiting 
 enemies to join your party. There are more than 100 different golems in the game, and they're all 
 quite diverse and useful. Each golem has its own attacks and abilities, and each one can be leveled 
 up and made stronger, just like the human characters. There seems to be a golem for every occasion, 
 from mermaids that can absorb hit points from enemies, to a massive Sasquatch with frosty breath, 
 and even a pizza-headed creature that can shoot fire.  

  You can take all of the golems you collect in the game online to engage in multiplayer battles 
 via Xbox Live. It feels like a feeble attempt to add a multiplayer component to the game, because 
 all you can do is have a straight-up ranked or unranked battle. The battle system isn't robust 
 enough to allow for any engaging or involved multiplayer competitions. It can still be interesting 
 to see which golems other players prefer to use, though, and it can lead you to discovering some 
 new tricks that you can put to use in the single-player game.  

  The presentation in Enchanted Arms is reminiscent of other games of this type, and considering 
 that this is an Xbox 360 game, that isn't a good thing. The character models are fairly detailed, 
 but the animation is awkward. During story sequences, you'll see large versions of the characters 
 as they jerk and spasm from one fixed position to the next without any sort of transition. The 
 environments aren't impressive, either. You'll see a lot of huge, wide-open areas that show no 
 signs of life whatsoever. The entire world feels empty and uninhabited, which makes for dull viewing. 
 Sometimes you'll see some shiny textures, but for the most part, this game pales in comparison 
 to other Xbox 360 games, regardless of whether you're viewing it on a standard definition or high-definition 
 television. Furthermore, there's the problem of getting a workable perspective in battle. There 
 are a few preset camera angles to choose from, but none of them offer a full view of the battlefield. 
 The heads up display often obscures enemies, to the point that you might not even see an enemy 
 until it attacks you. The camera is also zoomed out to get the whole battlefield in the picture, 
 but that also makes some of the characters appear tiny, and their colors tend to blend into the 
 background. The game does look good in a few respects, though. Most of the attack effects are flashy 
 and exaggerated, but they all look good. In particular, there are EX attacks, which are special 
 attacks that feature more lengthy and over-the-top animations than the standard attacks. In addition 
 to the special effects, the prerendered cutscenes in the game look great. There are only a handful 
 of these, but they're each worth watching multiple times.  

          The dialogue is surprisingly well done, but unfortunately, the voice work isn't.     

 
  The sound in Enchanted Arms is decent for the most part. The English voice acting is pretty bad 
 most of the time, but there's an option to listen to the Japanese voices instead. Even if you can 
 live with the annoying voices during the story sequences, you'll probably find it hard to bear 
 the chirpy phrases uttered by your characters with every single attack. It quickly gets old hearing 
 the same two or three phrases repeated a dozen times or more in a single battle. The music is typical 
 of a role-playing game, and it's mostly good. There are dramatic orchestrated tracks, as well as 
 ambient loops that softly fade into the background. None of the music ever gets annoying, which 
 is perhaps the best thing that can be said for the music in a game that takes 40 hours or more 
 to complete.  

  While you can finish Enchanted Arms in about 40 hours, it will take you considerably longer if 
 you spend the time to find all of the golems in the game. The game is paced reasonably well, and 
 although it's very linear, you'll never be stuck wondering where to go or what to do next. This 
 keeps the game moving along most of the time, but it still tends to drag in spots. There's too 
 much backtracking required, and it often takes an inordinate amount of time to get where you want 
 to go. If you have the patience for it, though, you'll find that Enchanted Arms is a good first 
 effort for role-playing games on the Xbox 360, even if it isn't a very original one.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (210 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: SymonDezyn
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 4, 2009 1:50 pm PT
Review:  While there have definitely been some more ground-breaking RPG's for the 360 since this game emerged, 
 it was still my first ever game AND RPG for the 360, and it still holds merit.
  
  The story starts off slowly, and might turn some gamers off with its questionable characters and 
 not-so-nice VA, but if you can get past that, it does pick up very quickly and soon becomes very 
 engrossing and fast paced, making you forget (almost) how bad the voice acting is.
  
  The story is engaging and makes you want to continue on and find out what happens next, which for 
 me is definitely a must in an RPG, especially when you will be devoting a fair bit of time to its 
 completion. Despite its aforementioned VA weaknesses, the characters do grow on you over time, 
 and you do care what happens to them.
  
  Battle wise, it is interesting and somewhat unique, and will keep your attention throughout; the 
 only drawback being the high number of unavoidable random encounters - very irritating when you 
 are trying to just GET somewhere. 
  
  There are some side quests, but be very careful - if you are not WAY over-leveled you will die 
 a horrible death very quickly if you attempt some of them, so save save save.
  
  Overall i found this game to be worth playing, it is entertaining and fun, with a decent level 
 of challenge, and a good solid storyline, which is what an RPG should be. Its weaknesses did not 
 deter me from playing the entire thing, and i would argue its value to any unbeliever.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: bacchus2
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 28, 2008 4:25 am PT
Review:  With many of todays RPG's focussing on player choice and how their own personal story plays out, 
 Enchanted Arms feels like a throwback to past generations with a typical Japanese RPG setup; a 
 linear story and random encounters. Linear stories in RPG's are fine if they are compelling, but 
 unfortunately in Enchanted Arms it isn't. However, you may find the combat interesting enough to 
 put up with the generic story.
  
  A thousand years prior to the games opening scenes, a Golem War raged. Humans programmed golems 
 to perform tasks for them, but one day things went awry. After the ensuing war, the golems suddenly 
 stopped working. Devil Golems, the most powerful, were separated from their Magicores (the source 
 of their power) and were secured away after the war. In the present day, people have forgotten 
 about the war and are using golems again. Without giving too much away, it also turns out that 
 there is another way for a Devil Golem to return to its former glory, and the story begins there.
 
  
  The main character of the game is Atsuma, and the game begins with him dreaming in class at Enchant 
 University. After you receive some tutorials from the teacher and one of your friends, you can 
 start to explore the university and chat to fellow students. While you can talk to people, there 
 is usually no benefit from doing so. When speaking to people you will sometimes be offered multiple 
 lines to choose from, but it has no impact on the game or story. You can just talk to them multiple 
 times to get their other responses and before long you will probably ignore everyone who isn't 
 necessary to the story. Atsuma is unique at Enchant University. While others are there to learn 
 the art of enchanting, his arm has the power to destroy those enchants instead. This begs the question; 
 why is he studying at the university at all? There are a number of times in the story where you 
 will be scratching your head wondering how seemingly implausible events, relationships or motivations 
 came to be.
  
  The way the story is told really fails to deliver. There are some occasional pre-rendered cutscenes, 
 and some of those are impressive, particularly those which show off the destructive power of the 
 Devil Golems. However most of the story is told by having characters overlaid on either side of 
 the screen as they talk to each other and while they are rendered in 3D and in motion, there are 
 only about half a dozen predetermined poses for each character. This limits how much emotional 
 impact each line has, but not as much as the woeful acting. Though it is hard to blame the actors 
 for getting into it when the dialogue is terrible. Characters often act or react in ridiculous 
 ways, and their behaviour at times is simply unbelievable. One example that crops up several times 
 in the story is that i'ts blatantly obvious one character is quite reluctant to go to the next 
 destination, but then pretends that everything is ok and the other characters believe them instead 
 of probing for more information. Other times they are unappropriately joking about serious matters. 
 Everything is just so inconsistent that you will find it hard to care about the story or characters. 
 Early on you will earn an achievement named 'Tragedy', and it certainly could have been moving 
 had it been treated with respect but all it did for me was add 25 points to my Gamerscore.
  
  While the story fails to deliver, the combat succeeds. Since there is no character development 
 or ways to impact the story, all of your stats and skills relate to combat. There are some main 
 characters in the story, and the rest of your party will be made from golems that you collect. 
 These can be purchased and synthesized, or you can find their avatars in environments and challenge 
 them to earn their core (who are stronger than their random encounter counterparts) . While you 
 can have eight golems accompanying your party, only 4 characters and/or golems can be taken into 
 combat. Combat takes place on a grid cut across the middle, so each party has a space of 4 across 
 and 3 deep to play with; you can not enter the opponents grid and vice versa. Your party begins 
 randomly placed on the grid, and you take the first turn. You can select any of your characters, 
 move them up to two spaces (using the 4 basic directions, no diagonals) , then select a skill to 
 use. Usually this will be some form of attack, but some characters have healing, defense and boosting 
 abilities. All of these have a predefined effect area. For example, Atsuma's 'Blow' attack hits 
 two squares in front of him. Later he unlocks Flare Blow, which can only attack one square in front 
 but does significantly more damage. Karin's (a character you will meet a few hours into the game) 
 Mist attack affects a square three steps forward from where she is standing, plus the 2 squares 
 either side. You repeat this with all of your characters, then if any opponents are still standing, 
 they all take their turn at once.
  
  There are no random numbers and attacks never miss. There is also no defense statistic; whatever 
 an attacks power rating is, is exactly how many hit points it will take off the enemy, barring 
 elemental differences or defense spells. Enemy hit points and effects they are under is displayed 
 whenever you highlight them, as well as allowing you to look at their attacks' power and range. 
 Thus combat comes down to you choosing wisely where you want to position your party, and which 
 attacks will net you the most benefit. Attacks that affect more area are usually capable of doing 
 more overall damage, but focused attacks might defeat an enemy, stopping it from counterattacking. 
 Unlike most JRPG's, hit points are restored at the end of combat. To balance this out, most enemies 
 are capable of dishing out enough damage to kill members of your party in short order. In fact 
 you should expect members of your party to fall with reasonable regularity. So long as at least 
 one member of your party survives, everyone will be revived and restored. Attacks are either direct 
 or ranged, which brings us to the cover system. While ranged attacks will deal damage to anything 
 within the attack range, direct attacks will only deal full damage to the first enemy in a column. 
 If there is a second enemy standing behind the first, they will take half damage, and if a third 
 happens to be in the same row, they will take no damage even if the attack travels that far. This 
 is another factor you will have to take into account when preparing your attacks, and also when 
 you want to protect certain members of your own team.
  
  While hit points get restored between combat, Vitality Points do not. These somewhat replace the 
 traditional role of hit points in JRPG's. Each turn of combat, they lose VP. There are some other 
 factors that reduce VP as well, such as being knocked out, or running from combat. If a member 
 of your party begins combat with no VP, they start with 1 Hit Point and 1 Energy Point (more on 
 those shortly) . This gives you incentive to swap out those characters and use different ones. It 
 also gives you incentive to focus on good tactics and end battles as quickly as possible. Scattered 
 around the lands are restore points that revitalise everyones VP, but you will often live in fear 
 of running out of VP and always keep moving towards your goal. Hint : Save your game at these points.
 
  
  At the end of each combat, everyone in your party earns experience points, including those who 
 were not in combat. While there are over 100 golems to collect, you can only have 8 with your party; 
 the rest that remain in storage (and can only be swapped in when at a shop) do not get the experience. 
 Leveling up increases all of your stats (Hit Points, Energy Points, Direct, Range, Support, Agility) . 
 Those who were in combat also earn Skill Points (but not the rest of the party) . While general 
 leveling increases every stat, SP can be used to focus on a particular attribute. For example, 
 the vast majority of Atsuma's attacks are direct, so you are likely to spend most of your points 
 there, whereas Karin is your main healer and you will want to boost her support. However each time 
 you increase a stat, it costs incrementally more to do so again. Golems have set skills, and all 
 of their SP can go towards their stats. The main characters can learn many more skills, but they 
 must spend SP to unlock them. While those skills get more powerful, their EP usage also goes up 
 considerably. For example, an upgraded attack that does 50% more damage than the previous version 
 might cost 3 times as much EP. Furthermore, each character can only have 5 main skills attached 
 at a time. This doesn't matter in the early game when each character only has 2 or 3 options, but 
 if you only equip the strongest EP hungry attacks, you might find yourself unable to attack for 
 a turn while some of your EP is restored. This doesn't come into play much during normal combat, 
 but becomes much more critical for boss fights.
  
  There are some other complications in combat. Each character and golem has an elemental alignment. 
 There are six different elements, 3 sets of matching pairs. If an attack is imbued by an opposing 
 element, the recipient takes double damage. Any attack imbued with their alignment takes half that 
 damage. While everyone has an elemental alignment, some or even all of their attacks are not aligned 
 to an element. This offers a risk versus reward, for example while Atsuma's fire aligned attacks 
 are effective at taking out water aligned enemies, they are usually capable of dealing him double 
 damage as well. Some attacks have other attributes. Some attacks make you unable to move, some 
 poison you (dealing damage to you each turn) , others knock you back. Your characters can learn 
 support skills to prevent these from affecting you. Other complications that creep into combat 
 are healers and resurrecters, enemies that counterattack during your turn, those that explode, 
 and those that will drain your EP. Their introduction is well paced, so combat doesn't get boring. 
 One of the most annoying things is that your Agility rating impacts whether the group will be caught 
 off guard. Taking your turn first and pummeling your enemies before they can make a move feel goods; 
 having it reciprocated is not. It isn't until late in the game that it becomes neccessary to increase 
 this statistic, but it affects nothing else in combat and feels like a waste of points.
  
  Overall, the combat feels great. While the path is linear, there are so many ways to approach the 
 combat, to spend your skills points, and to compose your party. One small complaint is that regular 
 battles feel over a little quickly, with many ending in one or two turns. This often makes your 
 support characters feel a little useless, but you will need to level them up for boss fights. Most 
 regular fights have between two and four enemies, but occassionally you will come across some that 
 have six, and will have to think about your opening turn carefully to make sure you don't get pummelled. 
 If you ever lose in combat, you are free to retry from the beginning. This is a nice feature, but 
 it doesn't allow you to swap out any characters or skills; if you think your party is overwhelmed 
 and you can't win the combat no matter what your tactics, you will have to reload your last save. 
 Your starting positions on the grid are random, and a retry can put you in more favourable position 
 to get an early upper hand. Another nice feature is the auto-attack feature. In any turn you can 
 have the computer manage it for you with two button presses. The computer generally does a good 
 job, but there were a few times when support spells were used, but the battle would have been over 
 a turn earlier if it had gone all out offense. You can't complain though, as the feature is optional 
 and good for those battles that you know you can win without a sweat. The graphics here are great 
 during combat, but you will hold down the fast forward button after you have seen an attack for 
 the first few times. It might sound strange, but the rumble feature feels great and supplements 
 the sound nicely as it vibrates with each strike.
  
  There are plenty of different environments to walk around, and these are generally pleasing to 
 the eye, though some indoor areas have the same wall textures and seem quite symmetrical, making 
 them bland and uninteresting. Enchanted Arms has a laundry list of minor annoyances or obvious 
 features that are missing. Granted, none of these are huge, but you will notice them frequently. 
 Getting onto ladders seems to require pinpoint precision at times, and there are plenty of invisible 
 barriers in areas where it looks like you can walk. When you get into water, the screen blacks 
 out and reloads a few seconds later, when we expect that to be seamless these days. Furthermore 
 you can still have random encounters when swimming, but the combat takes place on land, which feels 
 sloppy. You can synthesize weapons for characters in the shop, but it doesn't offer you an equip 
 option; you will have to leave the shop and load up another menu before you can equip it. Probably 
 the most greivous annoyance is when you have a main character in your main combat party, they are 
 removed from your party due to story elements, and then you are thrust into combat without the 
 option of changing your line up. You either have to complete the fight with only three characters, 
 or revert to your last save and swap him or her from the party before the story element triggers.
 
  
  A persons potential enjoyment of Enchanted Arms is likely to come down to the combat. My only desire 
 to complete the story was driven by my compulsion to find new and more powerful enemies to fight. 
 I can't help but feel that Enchanted Arms would have been an entirely better game had it thrown 
 away the story altogether, played to its strength and been about a Golem Tournament without the 
 need to traverse around waiting for those battles to happen and mashing the A button during cutscenes. 
 If story and character development are your main draws to RPG's, then stay away from Enchanted 
 Arms. If you can put up with the story, then you will find a solid tactical combat system that 
 is likely to keep you entertained. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Garrison_Ford
Rating: 5
Date: Nov 27, 2008 7:22 am PT
Review:  *** ENCHANTED ARMS ***
  
  THE GOOD
  -Unique battle system
  -Golem hunting is fun
  
  THE BAD
  -Weak story
  -Annoying characters (except for Toya)
  -Way too many random battles
 
  -Lots of maintenance
  
  OVERVIEW
  Enchanted Arms has a few instances of good character development, story telling and RPG gameplay. 
 However, majority of the game offers an uninspiring plot, annoying dialog and many gameplay features 
 that RPG gamers have grown to hate. The story takes place 1000 years after the Golem Wars, which 
 were a series of battles between very powerful golems. Golems are either organic or inorganic creatures 
 that have special powers. In the present time, most of the golems are man-made and are used to 
 serve the general public and aren't a threat to anyone. This takes us to our main character, Atsuma, 
 and his two friends Makoto and Toya. These three guys are students at the Enchanter's University 
 in Yokohama City. They're here to study and become powerful enchanters which are sort of like magic 
 users. Atsuma is basically a lazy moron that genuinely cares for other people. He also has a mysterious 
 right arm that pains him from time to time. Our "dim-witted" Atsuma ends up being a very poor choice 
 as the lead but you're stuck with him. Toya is by far the most interesting character and is best 
 friends with Atsuma. He is calm, cool and collected. Toya is a self-less and very intelligent man 
 for his age. Makoto is an absurd and self-centered kind of guy. He thinks lowly of Atsuma and definitely 
 shows his discuss often. Makoto is a complainer and most of the conversations with him involve 
 him whining about something. However, whenever Toya is around Makoto, being a transvestite, he 
 is a completely different person. 
  
  Anyways, our three friends decide to skip class and attend a festival in Yokohama's town square. 
 You'll meet another character in the golem battle tent. Yuki, the young and nave golem hunter, 
 with her squeaky little voice wants to become the number one golem hunter in the world just to 
 collect lots of money. This little gold digger is very irritating at first and pretty much stays 
 that way for the entire game. After enjoying themselves there an unexpected event happens. An earthquake 
 startles everyone for a moment and then things get worse when all the golems start attacking humans. 
 Atsuma and company fight there way back to the school to help out other fellow students when they 
 discover a devil golem underneath the school. The devil golem Atsuma meets up with is the Queen 
 of Ice. After a quick little skirmish, Toya is captured and Makoto seems lifeless after ice chunks 
 fall on top of him leaving Atsuma to fend for himself. Atsuma, being directed by the voice of his 
 arm, unleashes a huge attack with his right arm but it is not enough to stop the Queen. Atsuma 
 collapses and the Queen of Ice completely destroys Yokohama city in a flash.
  
  Atsuma wakes up in a prison cell with Karin in London City. Karin is a stubborn princess of London 
 City that treats everyone like dirt, even the people that save her life. Karin with her bossy personality 
 ends up being the type of woman that nobody likes to be around and there have been many times when 
 I have yelled at the TV for Karin to shut up. The ungrateful princess is imprisoned with Atsuma 
 because she is leading a resistance against her father. You see her father wants to resurrect the 
 fire devil golem in London City to fight the Queen of Ice and Karin thinks that this is a bad idea. 
 Anyways, after filling Atsuma in on the issues, her powerful bodyguard Raigar comes and helps the 
 two escape. Raigar is the noble knight assigned to protect Lady Karin. Now Raigar is a great guy 
 and all but the crap he takes from Karin is very disheartening. After the break out, the three 
 of them (with Yuki meeting up with them shortly) find out more about the devil golems. They learn 
 that the Queen of Ice has captured Toya and is controlling him as her magicore. You'll find out 
 more about magicores and why the Queen of Ice wants to revive the other devil golems; the Emperor 
 of Fire and Lord of Earth. Plus, you'll meet a Mystery Man and the voice behind Atsuma's right 
 arm and find out each of their agendas in the whole ordeal.
  
  Like I said before, pretty much all the characters have uninteresting personalities which coupled 
 with a weak story ends up making the game more of a chore instead of a fun gaming experience.
 
  
  GAMEPLAY
  Alright enough story, now let's get into the gameplay. The battle system is one of the better features 
 in Enchanted Arms. Once a battle is triggered two unique 3x4 grids appear with your party and enemies 
 on opposite sides. The starting positions of all the characters in battle are random. Each side 
 will get a chance to move each character on the grid and then perform an action. These actions 
 include using an item, performing a skill, or unleashing a super attack (EX) . Every action has 
 a specific range of squares it will cover on the grid. For example, Karin's healing skill will 
 heal herself and the squares to the right, left and forward. Another thing to keep in mind is that 
 every single skill requires Ether Points (EP) . This is sort of like your magic points in other 
 standard RPGs. This adds plenty of strategy into every single battle which RPG gamers will enjoy. 
 
  
  When characters and enemies perish on the battlefield, their bodies remain in the occupied spots 
 for three turns and then fade away so it is important to revive your friends sooner than later. 
 Two very useful features are that you can speed up the actions of everyone in battle by holding 
 down the "Y" button and you can have the computer choose the optimum actions for your characters 
 to execute in one round using the "RT" button. This is very useful if you're sick of all the random 
 battles and want to proceed quicker through them and also makes leveling up faster too. The thought 
 put into this is well appreciated. Another nice feature is that all your characters start off with 
 full hit points and ether points at the beginning of a battle. The only thing you have to worry 
 about is replenishing your Vitality Points (VP) . Battles will drain VP and if it drops to zero 
 that character will start any battle with one HP and EP. There is one setback to the battle system, 
 however, in that there are too many random battles. Enchanted Arms almost feels like an old school 
 RPG like Final Fantasy (for the NES) with it's number of random fights which can get irritating 
 especially if you make a wrong turn and have to back track.
  
  The leveling system is mediocre compared to other RPGs. Atsuma and friends will earn Experience 
 Points (EXP) and Skill Points (SP) from dispatching foes. After obtaining a certain amount of EXP 
 your characters will gain levels and automatically increase slightly (and I mean a very disappointingly 
 small amount) in six different parameters: HP, EP, Direct Damage, Ranged Damage, Support and Speed. 
 However, you can use your SP to increase these attributes a little more. SP can also be used to 
 learn new skills and supports (passive abilities) . Five skills and supports is the most your characters 
 can be equipped with at any time. This is kind of inadequate because it makes every fight seem 
 boringly similar. Another gripe I have about Enchanted Arms is that there is a lot of maintenance 
 to perform. This means that you have to go through too many menus in order to update your heroes. 
 For instance, you'll have to go to one menu option to learn skills and then you need to back out 
 and enter another menu option to equip the skill. Another example is when characters leave your 
 party. This happens a few times during the course of the game and when they return you have to 
 go back in and setup your party once again. This may not seem like much but when you have to do 
 this hundreds of times it gets quite annoying. 
  
  There are a few extra things to do in Enchanted Arms but unfortunately only the Golem Hunting is 
 worth your time. All throughout the game you'll not only fight golems but have the chance to capture 
 them too. Typically the golems are located off the beaten path and once you defeat them they'll 
 join your party. Golems can be fun to level up but it also means that you have to sub one of them 
 in instead of your main characters. London City also offers a gambling casino with games like roulette 
 but these games aren't really that much fun.
  
  GRAPHICS
  The visuals are actually quite poor for Xbox 360 standards. This goes for the in-game graphics. 
 The cut scenes look a little better; it's just a shame that there isn't too many of them.
  
  SOUND
  The voice acting is good in Enchanted Arms, even though some of the characters have 
 screeching (nails on a chalkboard) voices (like Yuki) . The music and sound effects are nothing 
 special, especially the uninspiring random battle music.
  
  CONCLUSION
  Enchanted Arms does a few things right but mostly this RPG experience has too many short comings. 
 The dull story and characters is a real drag and makes it difficult to really get into the game. 
 Not even the strategic battle system can save this game from escaping mediocrity. I wouldn't recommend 
 purchasing this game and if I have to hear Yuki say that she is the number one golem hunter one 
 more time I think I might blow my brains out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lorien665
Rating: 5.5
Date: Oct 28, 2008 6:41 am PT
Review:  I was looking forward to getting Enchanted Arms as it looked like the kind of game I would like 
 to play.
  
  I decided to rent it first and am glad that I did!!
  
  The battle system is not exactly to my liking with turn based, distance prohibited attacks and 
 the same for the healing system. I found the storyline not too bad but some of the characters were 
 a little too stereotyped. For example one of the first characters you meet is obviously gay but 
 he is portrayed as a highly strung, rude, camp man and i found it quite offensive. I think this 
 is the wrong message to be sending to any kids that might decide to pick up this game. I tried 
 hard to like this game, donating about 20 hours of my precious time to it, but it still could not 
 change my mind.
  
  On a positive note... yes there is one.... they have a cool system where if you do a boss and you 
 die then you do not need to go back to your last save, you can simply restart the battle. I used 
 this feature once or twice although you cannot change your party so I did have to go back a few 
 times too : ( 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lilman5100
Rating: 3
Date: Oct 7, 2008 5:25 am PT
Review:  When i 1st saw the game, i was really intrigued by it so i bought, however, i probably should've 
 rented it 1st. The is definately the worst RPG I have ever bought, but luckly for me i didnt pay 
 full price. The main characters name is Atsuma and like most RPGs, he has no recollection of his 
 past (go figure, it creates a plot in the story) and attends Enchant University, which is a magic 
 school. He is accompained by two friends, one of which is transgendered and extremely annoying. 
 The one thing that really bored me was the long dialogue between the main character and his friends. 
 It seemed to go one for ever and was utterly pointless. The graphics of the game seemed to be alright, 
 like they werent bad, and there were many golems to choose from, but it made difficult to choose 
 a favorite, however the game was so horrible I took it back to gamestop about 3 weeks later. Im 
 a big fan of RPGs and have been since FFVII, however this was just the worst ive played... If you 
 wanted to buy this game.. dont, rent it first! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skydancerofchao
Rating: 5
Date: Sep 17, 2008 1:12 pm PT
Review:  This game started out at $20 for the PS3... what does that tell you? I tried to like this game simply 
 because it was one of the first original rpg's for the next-gens, actually THE first I believe. 
 Its just so bland to me. The story is well done, but uninspired. The graphics are lackluster compared 
 to something like Eternal Sonata, which was so vibrant and full of detail it had me simply staing 
 at the screen for minutes at a time, and the characters... they are terrible. Some of them appear 
 to be drag-queens, I swear. I've seen other games do that before, but its only one character or 
 so.
  
  The battle system tried to do somethign different, but its really just the same old turned based 
 strategy (which I love, but this one is just plain blah) . As gamespot said as well, there is so 
 much walkign around pointlessly, they couldn't give you a quicker means or travel once you've already 
 visited an area? A good 10 hours of the game is walking from point A to point B, back to A, then 
 to C, then A, then C, and finall B again. Yeah, thats how they give us an rpg that is over 40 hours 
 long.
  
  It seems the fate of almost any first rpg on any new system, except for the franchise games, if 
 they make launch. Enchanted Arms has nothing about it that enchants the gamer, if anything, most 
 of it completelly turns him/her off by hour 20. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: slayer19888
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 28, 2008 9:27 am PT
Review:  this is an awsome and very entertaining game. i remember sitting up till 4 or 5 in the morning 
 playing it and fall asleep maybe 2 or 3 hours and then start back on it again. its a very highly 
 addictive game. i think its underrated. i gave it an 8.5. i put well over 80 or so hours into it. 
 i would level up and stay close to a heal spot and buy every single move, weapon, and golem before 
 moving on. so i went and 100% of on every move, weapon, and golem before i ended the game. which 
 there are 2 possible endings to the game. a good ending or the sad ending. which you have to get 
 both for the achievements. and the going back to where phoenicia and all them were in the cave 
 were really challenging. but when you beat all 4 you go to this one area where theres 12 or 13 
 floors of puzzles. you have to try to find your way through. to go all the way through it and beat 
 the boss of it took me well over 20 or more hours to beat. this game is well worth buying. which 
 i think is like $20 now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zh666
Rating: 6.5
Date: Aug 28, 2008 6:31 am PT
Review:  Enchanted Arms was.. eeh.. ok I guess. The graphics are really bad. The voice acting annoying. The 
 story was crap. However, I did like dungeon crawling in the game. I loved finding all the Golems 
 (I got most of them) . There was plenty of fun sidequests. I loved building up my characters skills. 
 While the battle system was a little slow, you can set your battles to Auto, so you can create 
 really fast battles if you wanted. This is an AWESOME idea for a game with random encounters. Not 
 only that, but you can put your characters attacks in Fast Forward aswell, speeding up the battle 
 system even more!
  
  While I hated alot of things about Enchanted Arms, there was still quite a bit of things I enjoy 
 about it too. 
  
  ----------Battle System ----------
  Enchanted Arms is a turn-based RPG. All turns are round based. If your team starts first (which 
 is 99% of the time) , then you have to set all your moves, then watch them all unfold. After your 
 team has moved then you watch the enemy retaliate with their attack. This goes back and forth until 
 one side is dead.
  
  Enchanted Arms is a grid based game. So when you get into a random encounter, your team is on one 
 side, while the enemies are on another. You can have up to four playable characters for a team. 
 The team is randomly placed on the grid, then you can move them around in any order and select 
 your moves. 
  
  You can use items, skills or EX attacks. Items are self explanatory. You learn skills over time, 
 buy them or find them. When you want to learn a skill, you first need Sp, which you gain when you 
 defeat an enemy. Once you obtained the skill, then learned it, you can then equip up to 5 skills 
 per character for each two skill sets. The first skill set is Battle skills. These skills you can 
 use in battle. Each battle skill is unique to each of the main playable characters. Each battle 
 skill have pre-determined ranges and powers, similar to turn-based strategy games like Final Fantasy 
 Tactics. Your battle skills can reach various grids sizes. The other skill set is Support skills. 
 These skills can be equipped by everyone. These skills boost your stats or protect you from status 
 effect magics. 
  
  EX attacks are special attacks, kinda like Limit breaks. Your party as an EX meter bar on the battle 
 grid. When you kill an enemy, you gain a little percentage of EX points. When you have enough, 
 you can use one of the powerful EX attacks against your enemy. Another bar you might watch out 
 for is a Combo bar, this grows during each move. If you attack in unison with one of your characters, 
 then you might use a combo attack that can unleash a powerful attack.
  
  You can get Golems to join your party as well. You can find them or buy them. Similar to Dragon 
 Quest 8, which also had random encounters, you'll find Golems wondering around on the world map. 
 You can challenge them to a fight, and if you win, you get to keep them. You can use these Golems 
 in battle anytime you want, actually you don't even need to use any of your main characters, excluding 
 Astuma. You can primarily use Golems if you wanted. You can hold up to 8 Golems at a time for reserve.
 
  
  After you win a battle, you gain TB (money) , Experience and SP (skill points) . Along with this 
 you also gain three item types as well, Power Gem, Mind Gem and Speed Gem. You need these items 
 for item synthesis. You can build weapons and golems with these items. The Skill Points are also 
 a major factor into the game because you can build up any character's stats with them. 
  
  Each character also have a VP meter, which I think means Vitality Points, but I'm not 100% sure 
 on that. Either way, these VP restore everyone's HP and EP after a battle, kinda like Wild Arms 
 games. If you run out of VP, then you'll need to swap that character out because you'll be seriously 
 gimped in battle.
  
  
  ----------Characters / Story ----------
  You play as Astuma, a dimwitted moron student with a weird Enchanted arm. His arm has the ability 
 to absorb mass amounts of ether. Astuma and his two buddies accidentally unleash a powerful Devil 
 Golem from her slumber. The Devil Golem is the most powerful Golem on Earth and plans to conquer 
 the world on city at a time. Astuma makes it his goal to save the world with his unique abilities. 
 
  
  Ok, the characters are fairly annoying, I think I hated just about all the main characters, especially 
 Karin, who was a shrill, annoying and bossy. She is probably the least likable female lead in a 
 game I've ever encountered. The story is predictable stuff. The dialog is really bad at times, 
 and they don't know when it's a bad comedy game or a bad serious rpg. 
  
  
  ----------Graphics ----------
  Ehhh.. the graphics suck. There's a few moments in the game that 
 makes me realize it's a 360 game, otherwise this could of easily been slapped on the original Xbox 
 just fine. The only good parts was the big environments, and uh... nice lighting effects. I liked 
 the wide variety of Golems.
  
  The bad parts are just about everything else. The character models suck. The battle animations 
 are PS2 quality. The battle grid is ugly. The character animations, including cutscenes, dialog 
 scenes, and everything is are poor. The character mouths barely move or sometimes don't even move 
 during dialog scenes. The water effects are N64 quality. Overall, the game doesn't have much personality. 
 The environments from the castle walls to the grassy fields are generic and boring. 
  
  ----------Sound ----------
  Where do I begin with this? While the music is ok at best, it can 
 be repetitive. I can remember a few tunes here and there, so I guess it's slightly rememberable 
 stuff, but nothing on a Final Fantasy, Dragon Quest or even Baten Kaitos level of quality here.
 
  
  The voice work is my biggest grief here. They're freaking AWFUL. Not only are most of the characters 
 just play annoying but they're poorly acted as well. I haven't heard such poor voice acting in 
 a long long time. 
  
  ----------World Map ----------
  The world map is just a open area of connecting towns, fields and dungeons, much like a Zelda game, 
 Fable or Dragon Quest 8. The game feels linear because you're often limited to where you can travel 
 at first. Near the middle of the game you'll find a warp device that can take you back to the first 
 real town in the game. Then towards the very end of the game you'll find a town full of warp devices 
 that will take you to 4 major sections of the world. Because of this, you won't feel like you have 
 much freedom in the game until the very end.
  
  ----------Time to Complete Game ----------
  39:14:43
  
  The game saves after the credits, 
 as far as I know it doesn't open anything new up. The final boss fight was frustrating because 
 it had 7 or 8 forms, this was nearly as bad as Legend of Dragoon. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: APOWDEREDDONUT1
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 24, 2008 2:35 pm PT
Review:  I'd first like to say that I have not played through the whole game, only about half, unlike the 
 reviewers before me. I'd also like to mention that this is very much a JRPG (linear-style, turn 
 based role-playing game) , so if that's not your cup of tea, you might want to give this title a 
 pass. 
  
  That aside, Enchanted Arms is a worthy opening act for traditional RPGs on the 360. The graphics 
 are pretty good, though hardly ambitious. The quality of the cinematic sequences are likely to 
 give Square-Enix a run for their money. Thankfully, the game gives the user a choice between the 
 English voice acting and the original Japanese (most English redubs are fairly poor, and this game 
 is no exception) . But what people really care about in a JRPG is characters, plot, and combat. 
 
  
  The characters start off as nothing special. In fact, they are stereotypes through and through. 
 A few past reviews were exceptionally turned off by a lesser character during the opening and tutorials; 
 that character quickly leaves the plot, but I happened to find his antics amusing (and opening 
 the game with a homosexual character is quite progressive in my opinion, keeping in mind that he 
 is flamingly flamboyant and fabulous) . The story is fairly generic to start off, but develops a 
 subtle complexity that is actually quite refreshing when compared to the epic plots of the Final 
 Fantasy series.
  
  This, I think, helps the character development some, as any development (particularly in the case 
 of Atsuma, the protagonist) is surprising. Even without Atsuma's torturous inner struggles/demons, 
 the other characters still play an active role and are far more three-dimensional than the game 
 would have you initially believe. Combat has been built from the ground up, and the result is a 
 unique experience. It combines the elements of strategy RPGs in the vein of Ogre Battle and Final 
 Fantasy Tactics, with the simple turn-based elements of traditional JRPGs. 
  
  In addition to your natural party, you can build a team of golems (monsters, essentially) to assist 
 in combat. The mix of strategy and action helps this game stand on its own amongst the competition. 
 
  
  I for one think that this title doesn't get nearly the amount of respect it deserves. If you enjoy 
 a classic RPG, check this game out. If you can't be patient for an hour and let the game develop, 
 it's certainly not for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ferus_prime
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 20, 2008 11:27 pm PT
Review:  Its not often that after i wander out of the 'starting zone' in a game that i go "Wow..." and gawk 
 for a few moments at the beautiful area.
  
  Enchanted Arms is one of those games. I recently acquired the game in a bargain bin during a sale, 
 remembering my friend's words that he was addicted to the PS3 version. So, shrugging a pick up 
 the game and go "what the heck."
  
  Several hours onwards and i feel that I've cheated the establishment for procuring the game for 
 so cheap. Admittedly the level design of a few places turns to the bland and boring from time to 
 time, but at these moments my attention is turned to the character models and how much work has 
 been put into them.
  
  The battle system is what I'd like to term, 'just right.' In a world where the norm of JRPG is 
 combatants standing in a line and flailing at the air. (Or some variation thereof.) Enchanted Arms 
 mixes it up with just the right amount of strategy, particle effects and the ever needed option 
 to fast forward. With the added option to let the AI choose how to beat the enemy there IS the 
 option of you not really playing the game and there are times when you'll want to do that. The 
 perfect cure for JRPG random encounter syndrome, sitting back and fast forwarding through a automatic 
 battle.
  
  The dialog seems natural and actually funny, there's no time while I've been playing it that I've 
 stared at the T. V. screen and had the niggling feeling that the game is staring back and muttering 
 something about why i'm not laughing at its witty, but pathetic joke. The only downside to this 
 is the choice of a few voice actors, during the course of my game play i found it easier to either 
 ignore these characters by muting, skipping over their dialog or even trying to give them a more 
 annoying voice.
  
  The additional option of wandering out of the way to find more golems is one of the more enjoyable 
 side quests I've ever committed myself to doing. I've found myself wandering off the normal path 
 in search of these collectibles more than once.
  
  On the subject of the golems. Not once have i looked over one of the superbly detailed characters 
 and not said 'i wonder where i can get one of them?!' Not content with settling on a standard 'it 
 has two legs, two arms' basic skeleton to be skinned over in six different colours the game design 
 team has churned out hundreds of one of a kind models. During the starting episode of the game 
 i found myself fighting crystalline clowns, baroque armoured dogs and a flat dough like golem with 
 a head made of pizza.
  
  The story is one of the more captivating of the last few years, making me on a few occasions move 
 the thought of putting down the controller because i just had to see what was going to happen next.
 
  
  In the end, i say go out and fish for this game. The game is well worth the play even with the 
 voicing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: coolmantony
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 11, 2008 6:48 pm PT
Review:  i loved the game i just found that it pissed me off wen u beat the game u hav to hav xbox live 
 to play more. this pissed me off badly ebcasue i overwrited the saved file of me outside the ice 
 castle and i didnt get to play for like 5 months till i got live. i found big flaw in this game 
 that is the enmies are to hard it took me forever to beat the lord of earth and wen i did i had 
 to train for like 3 hours so i was able to get to the sages tower. i found everything else in the 
 game very good just some things were confusin like tb just shouldve called it gold and took me 
 forever to figure out wat vp was which i think is a stupid feature to put in the game. i also found 
 it really frustrating wen ralgar atsuma and karin all couldnt attack far atsuma learns l8ter and 
 wen a golem kept attatcking me from far i got pissed off and turned off the system, wen i got yuki 
 i was statisfied. i loved the feature at the end of the game with the god orbs to keep u playin 
 it and i luv how theirs online so i can show off my 3 nice golems. the bets feature in the game 
 is because has a funny and amazing story line and its long :D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: persian_knight
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 3, 2008 3:55 am PT
Review:  this game is so fun and i loved playing it
  
  the battle system is great and i like how every battle you play as a certain character they get 
 some points and you can use them ponits to upgrade them which makes for a good experience and makes 
 you want to fight but the only bad ponit is it has random encounter and when your nearly dead and 
 near a save ponit this could make you die but iits not really that bad
  
  it has great graphics and a fantastic story which is so good i cried and i have played this game 
 through 4 times now it has a very complex but easy to understand gameplay and there are lots of 
 monsters to collect and train but its a shame they cant learn finishers and you end up only using 
 monsters as a back up if one of the main characters die
  
  you have 4 people in a battle at once and its kinda turn based gameplay but you move them round 
 a grid but you dont go to the enemies side if you get what i am talking about each characters has 
 a set amout of vp which are vitality ponits and when they reach zero every battle there in they 
 only have 1hp and no magic but they can get healed at a funky looking heal ponit and thats about 
 all you do is fight to get to a certain place heal boss fight and keep doing that but this game 
 is fantastic and there are loads of monsters to collect colouful graphics and a great story that 
 keeps you playing the game all the way to the end 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ctortolini
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 21, 2008 12:27 pm PT
Review:  There are games that you play because the action of playing them is fun (achieving that exact jump 
 or sorting out that puzzle) ... but there are other games that you play because you want to find 
 out what comes next in the story line... that's when you know you have found a good RPG...
  
  That's the case with Enchanted Arms... battles are ok and rewarding but at the end, what you 
 really want is to know what is going to happen with the characters and their relationships.
  
  I'm not going to say more because of the risk to spoil the experience for somebody but friendship, 
 love and loyalty are the ingredients to a well cooked drama.
  
  Another thing (not less important) is that this is the one game I've found were is actually possible 
 to get all the Achievements unlocked... all 1000 of them.
  
  So, if you like RPG's, have about 30 hours available and want to increase your Achievements having 
 fun on the process, go ahead with Enchanted Arms... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: parkelis
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 15, 2008 9:43 pm PT
Review:  Enchanted arms is a valuable RPG - unique in its own rights, and special for all hardcore fans 
 of the genre. 
  
  Gameplay wise: A-
  
  - you get five characters to play with, and over 100 unlockable golems to also use in battle. Each 
 character and golem, different in countless ways, add spice to this game. Almost reminiscent of 
 pokemon, but lacking the number of avaliable slots (max of 4 per team) , this game is really something 
 great. The battle sequences are plaed on a 3 x 4 grid, and all in all, its a pretty enjoyable experience...
 
  
  Graphics: B+
  
  -The graphics in this game are sort of lacking, in the sense that they are a reminder of the xbox 
 / ps2 era... not to go overboard - they aren't that bad, but at times, their blandness can take 
 away from the overall appeal of the game. And what lacks in graphics only occurs on the characters 
 - enviornments and vibrant and interesting, along with golems each being complete individuals. 
 THough at times they fall flat, the cutscenes in this game, can be... at times, breathtaking - 
 this only occurs though, on closeups to characters especially the ice queen. All together, they 
 fit for the game, and at times, excel. 
  
  Value: B
  
  -The game consumes over 50 hours of your time, but in some incidents, that's a little too much... and 
 this is one of those "incidents"... battles, fun; mini-games and side quests, fun; not fun is the 
 countless futile chats between characters. Along with that, some cutscenes last almost 30 minutes 
 - interesting at first, but eventually, it's too tedious for any hardcore fan... but it'll all be 
 over with a simple press of the start button. Though battles and collecting golems add to the game 
 lasting for inumerable hours, near the end, any game is just awaiting to move on to the next game.
 
  
  Sound: C+
  
  -Characters speaking - the one biggest downfall in this game... Makoto : overdramatics; characters 
 are over steriotyped, and they speak ridiculously. That aside, the background music of enviornments 
 and battles can at times carry the game along beautifully; especially once you face bosses. Some 
 moments are quite special... really, until someone speaks again.
  
  Overall, this is a good game, and one everyone should try - it takes too long, and has its fault, 
 like every other game, but at times it really does shine. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KingOfCrunks
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 9, 2008 11:16 am PT
Review:  So, this game is rather like a Final fantasy game, So if your not on a quest like run, your either 
 leveling up on some experience, or just talking with random people stocking on items. This game 
 has some interesting characters, the dialouge at times and can be cheesy, and its really gay, This 
 game fails in a few things, almost generic, Because its like it has a dialouge tech from a super 
 nintendo. Its ridculous, only seeing 2 people talking at once. And its boring, considering its 
 a supposed to be an X360 game. I think, it really deserves what I gave it, But to me, its kinda 
 funny. The game is about a boy named Astuma who's right arm is acting up on him, and eventually 
 unleashes a Devil Golem into the world of the living that was once sealed off to keep the world 
 from comming to an end. Once they go down into the chamber that the Devil Golem is sealed off in 
 his arm goes crazy and ultimately revives the golem, thats so powerful it knocks him unconcensous 
 and he ends up doing some bad stuff while he is. When he wakes up he's in a prison cell in London 
 city not knowing what happened to him. Later on (not long after) someone else joins your cell and 
 you end up breaking out. After you do you slowly starts to realize whats going on and what he must 
 do. The Ice Queen (the devil golem he resurrected) has manipulated his friend into becomming her 
 magicore, meaning if she dies he dies so Astuma must find a way to separate him from her so he 
 can kill the Queen of Ice without killing his friend. There are only 6 human characters (2 of which 
 you only play as at the begenning and end of the game) and hundreads of golems that you can have 
 in your party (they do help alot sometimes) . Alot of people say this game is bad, but i have yet 
 to find out whats so bad about the game, and I've owned it since the day it came out on the 360 
 I love this game, it is superb and if your an RPG fan you have to try this game out. you wont be 
 sorry. I recomend buying it, since its been out for so long you can find it for a decent price. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dukebd699
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jun 22, 2008 5:42 pm PT
Review:  When Enchanted Arms came out on the Xbox 360, JRPGs were barren for the system. This was the first 
 large attempt to bring Xbox 360 owners into the genre. So the question you might be asking is, 
 did it do it? Well that is the question I want to answer as I go over what this game has to offer 
 and why it is unique.
  
  In Enchanted Arms, you play as Atsuma who attends a magic school for enchanting. Your friends are 
 Makato, who is in love with your other friend Toya but unfortunately for Makato, Toya doesn't feel 
 the same. Now, as offensive as it is, the game uses the fact that Makato is gay to help proved 
 comic relief. Everything from offering Toya some shrimp covered in a creamy white sauce to Makato 
 telling an ancient evil to find her own man provides a good amount of humor and keeps you entertained. 
 Now in this game, there was an ancient war over 1,000 years before the game takes place called 
 the Golem War. These golems are basically human servants, summoned by a long lost ancient magic, 
 until the golems turned against them and were led by the devil golems, the strongest of all golems. 
 The devil golems were locked up and sealed but at a town festival, something goes wrong leading 
 the boys to find a place where one of these devil golems is sealed leading them to unleash an ancient 
 evil ending with the city's destruction. So as Atsuma, you go on a quest to save Toya from the 
 evil clutches of the Ice Queen. As you go through the game, you discover a unique power inside 
 of you, you come across unique characters, interesting enemies, and some awkward dialouge.
  
  Besides the random encounters that JRPG players are used to, this game also features a fighting 
 system that is very unique. Basically, you have a map that's divided into a bunch of squares. Now 
 you are on one half of it and your enemy is on the other. Each golem has a certain distance it 
 can move but it must stay on your side. Each golem has unique attacks that cover a certain area 
 of the map wheter it be the four squares in front of them or the entire row in front of them. At 
 first, this combat system can seem strange and somewhat confusing but once you get used to it, 
 you see it as what it is.
  
  So what's so good about this game? This game will take you around 30 hours if you do nothing but 
 the main quest but there are some side quests that can burn a good 20 minutes each including one 
 that will last you a couple of hours if you choose to do it. So this isn't a game you will burn 
 through right away. This game has a wide selection of golems that you can use in combat that all 
 have their strengths and weaknesses that you must use to complete the game. This game will keep 
 you entertained with the dialogue wheter is was supposed to be funny or not. The combat system 
 is unique and well done. Then on top of everything else, this game has a great story that can suck 
 you in along with an enjoyable ending.
  
  But just like everything in life, there are some bad things in the game. The game starts off very 
 slow. Sometimes, the random encounters can become annoying because in some places they are very 
 frequent. There are two endings and one is enjoyable and the other makes you wonder why you played 
 this game for all this time because it is unsatisfying and will make you angry. There is one boss 
 that once you get to, if you save right before him then you will not be able to level up anymore 
 and this is the first hard boss you fight. Thus, if you are not prepared enough then you will face 
 him for hours waiting to get lucky enough to defeat him.
  
  So back to the question I asked at the beginning, did it do it? Yes it did, I know there are quite 
 a few people that feel the same as me that this game brought them into the genre. I highly suggest 
 this game for anyone who enjoys JRPGs and even for those who are thinking about trying one. Even 
 if you don't enjoy this game, you will get a surprise two hours in that will make it all worth 
 it, trust me.
  
  Enchanted Arms gets an 8.1 for being great but having a few problems that can ruin the game experience 
 for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BlOoDyDeAtH360
Rating: 9
Date: May 6, 2008 1:10 pm PT
Review:  Ok, first off, This is a great game. Has some interesting characters, the dialouge at times and 
 be cheesy but to me, its kinda funny. The game is about a boy named Astuma who's right arm is acting 
 up on him, and eventually unleashes a Devil Golem into the world of the living that was once sealed 
 off to keep the world from comming to an end. Once they go down into the chamber that the Devil 
 Golem is sealed off in his arm goes crazy and ultimately revives the golem, thats so powerful it 
 knocks him unconcensous and he ends up doing some bad stuff while he is. When he wakes up he's 
 in a prison cell in London city not knowing what happened to him. Later on (not long after) someone 
 else joins your cell and you end up breaking out. After you do you slowly starts to realize whats 
 going on and what he must do. The Ice Queen (the devil golem he resurrected) has manipulated his 
 friend into becomming her magicore, meaning if she dies he dies so Astuma must find a way to separate 
 him from her so he can kill the Queen of Ice without killing his friend. There are only 6 human 
 characters (2 of which you only play as at the begenning and end of the game) and hundreads of 
 golems that you can have in your party (they do help alot sometimes) Alot of people say this game 
 is bad, but i have yet to find out whats so bad about the game, and ive owned it since the day 
 it came out on the 360 (August 29th 2006) I love this game, it is superb and if your an RPG fan 
 you have to try this game out. you wont be sorry. I recomend buying it, since its been out for 
 so long you can find it for a decen price. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: celtic1962
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 17, 2008 7:41 am PT
Review:  Alright, it's been documented that in the 360's lifetime it has had a very small selection of JRGs, 
 and what they have has been overshadowed by the mega successful Oblivion and Mass Effect RPGs. 
 However, the first JRPG for the 360, Enchanted Arms, actually provides a fun time and in its almost 
 two year old life it really has been a shame that more people have not given this game a chance.
 
  
  GAMEPLAY - 8 - Combat is a mixture of the familiar and a little bit of innovation. As you travel 
 there will be random battles, and overall they tend to happen frequently. While most people don't 
 like this feature it does have a saving grace in that you can actually have your characters auto-battle, 
 and for random battles this works out fine because most of the basic enemies are quite easy to 
 defeat. Naturally boss battles are more difficult and will require active participation and strategy. 
 Battles are set up in a grid with your characters on one half and the enemies on the other, and 
 the strategy involves placing your characters in the best spots to use their various attacks, as 
 some will be better with ranged, others with close attacks etc. An unusual aspect is that characters 
 automatically go back to full health after a battle. What has to be monitored is their Vitality 
 Points, as some will be lost every time they take damage in a battle. When VP gets to zero the 
 character is basically useless until either a recharging station is found or a VP potion is taken. 
 Parties can have up to four active characters, and this is where the game's other distinguishing 
 feature takes place. Throughout the game you will come across golems, which are basically robots. 
 Golems can be created at shops or can be found at special locations and battled in order to add 
 them to your party, and you can switch out one of your main characters with one of your golems 
 if you wish. There are over 100 different golems in the game, and each one is very unique in their 
 appearance and in their element based attacks. A few of the dungeons did require some puzzle solving 
 to get from one end of the other but thankfully it never really became a chore. Overall the battles 
 were enjoyable, especially since you can rush through the mundane encounters and work on your strategy 
 for the tough enemies. The game does follow a rather linear path.
  
  GRAPHICS - 8 - Overall the graphics were pleasant and certain areas, especially cities, tend to 
 be highly detailed though the countryside can become rather plain. Character details were good 
 and has been mentioned the numerous golems are all completely unique and most were highly detailed 
 as well. Special magic attacks were usually impressive in a Final Fantasy kind of way. There weren't 
 too many cut scenes, which was a bit disappointing because the few that occurred were very impressive. 
 During typical conversations the game would use a setup where different characters were in their 
 own windows with limited movement and expression to go with their talking, which was acceptable 
 but seemed a bit out of date.
  
  SOUND - 7 - The soundtrack is quite good, if not exactly memorable at least it isn't annoying. 
 You do have have the option to use Japanese voices with English subtitles, and I highly recommend 
 this. Admittedly I prefer using the original Japanese anyways but in this case it is much better 
 due to the fact that the English actors just weren't very good and the Japanese voices were very 
 entertaining with a lot of emotion. Sure, at times it was over the top but it was usually very 
 amusing as well.
  
  STORY - 8 - While the story won't blow you away it was enjoyable and intriguing enough that I always 
 wanted to get to the next part to see what was going to happen next. It has its share of plot twists 
 and mysterious characters to keep your interest, and fortunately has a sense of humor to go along 
 with its dark moments.
  
  VALUE - 8 - I basically reached the final boss area in about 46 hours, and then found out that 
 my party was nowhere near strong enough for that. At that point I had to level grind for another 
 12 hours and give it another shot, at which point I was able to successfully complete the game. 
 My final tally was just over 60 hours, a decent amount of time though I prefer the RPGs that can 
 more or less let you continue to advance the story all the way to the conclusion w/o spending a 
 lot of time level grinding. Obtaining golems for the most part is an option, you could probably 
 complete the game w/o bothering to obtain any of them. However it is fun to collect them and to 
 see how unique and how powerful some of them can be. There is actually an online golem battle available 
 where you can pit your most powerful golems against other people. Anyone should be able to get 
 this game for a decent price, I bought a used copy for $20 and certainly thought it was a good 
 value.
  
  SUMMARY - 7.8 - The game I played previous to this was Blue Dragon, and while it had some good 
 moments I'd have to rate Enchanted arms as the more enjoyable of the two. The story was more interesting 
 and it moved along at a much better rate. Perhaps most important the characters were much more 
 interesting and entertaining to watch. I have not yet played either Eternal Sonata or Lost Odyssey 
 so I can't compare it to those games but overall I can say that Enchanted arms is an enjoyable 
 experience, and recommended for JRPG fans that own either a 360 or PS3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mangaminx
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 16, 2008 9:51 am PT
Review:  Enchanted Arms is a cookie cutter JRPG to the extent that it has a linear path, a basic story, 
 random battles, a cast of quirky characters and is lengthy. Fortunately this in itself is not a 
 bad thing as, if you enjoy JRPG's then your bound to enjoy Enchanted Arms.
  
  Our lead is Atsuma. He's a student at the enchanting university in the city of Yokohama albeit 
 a not very good one. In fact Atsuma (not only being rather stupid, headstrong and in possession 
 of a rather firey personality overall) has a magical ability in his right arm that appears to nullify 
 enchantments.. which isn't a good thing for an enchanter to have. However, being the rather carefree 
 person he is Atsuma studies at the university with his best friends "I am officially great at everything, 
 ever" Toya and "gayer than a San-Francisco Mardi-Gras" Makoto. All is well as the three boys sneak 
 out of classes to see the festival in Yokohama, however something is of course about to go terribly 
 wrong. Atsuma and company live in a world where there are beings known as Golems designed for certain 
 tasks, however long ago some super powerful variations of these known as Devil Golems triggered 
 a war and many people died. The Devil Golems were eventually sealed away by the various cities 
 in the world unfortunately (on carnival day too!) the one in Yokohama appears to be slightly more 
 awake today and thus Atsuma's adventure begins.
  
  So Atsuma travels the world with his companions going to various cities, and dungeons as the plot 
 unfolds before you. While occasionally characters like Makoto and Toya are with you, for the main 
 bulk of the game your companions are Karin, Raigar and Yuki who you encounter on your adventures. 
 Your party can also be made up of golems you catch during your adventures. There are plenty golems 
 to collect and find (in a similar vein to Pokemon) and it adds a nice extra dimension to the game 
 when it comes to tracking them down.
  
  In Japanese RPG's the most important things are story and combat system, and while Enchanted Arms 
 storyline isn't entirely up to scratch (its rather generic and simplistic) it excels a great amount 
 in its fantastic combat system. The combat takes place on a grid similar to a chess board with 
 both teams (your four chosen combatants and your opponents) facing each other and you take turns 
 to move and unleash a variety of moves on your opponents or take actions which protect your team. 
 The turn based combat and grid movement make the battles very tactical and actually require you 
 to think on what actions you take. Each characters range of abilities make you consider what order 
 to move them in for maximum effect or damage against the enemy and it's wonderful to see your battle 
 plans prove successful. Your combat and defensive skills are learned, found or purchased throughout 
 the game with more advance abilities appearing in shops or found deeper into the games plot so 
 you don't become too overpowered and a good balance is achieved. Obviously fighting causes you 
 to level up in the game too as you gain experience, but in Enchanted Arms it also gives you points 
 which you use to boost your statistics, learn skills you have found and generally make you more 
 powerful. Raising your statistics and learning you skills are far more important than gaining actual 
 levels in the world of Enchanted Arms and while it was a nice system in itself I thought it made 
 having actual levels mildly redundant and pointless.
  
  Graphically Enchanted Arms is a beautiful game to look at. At first glance the environments may 
 seem a little barren (and some of them are) but as you progress through the game you uncover more 
 and more beautiful scenery and effects and by the time you reach the Ice Palace for the final showdown 
 you will be blown away by just how good it looks.
  
  Sound wise is perhaps the one area where Enchanted Arms is pretty bad rather than good or average 
 the experiencing worsening depending on whether you play it in Japanese or English. The background 
 music in itself is pretty uninspiring and mildly irritating but if you combines that with the dire 
 American actors hired to voice the cast the experience is on the verge of making your ears bleed. 
 While this is almost something that seems required when a game is dubbed from a different language, 
 it still irritates me a lot. Play it in the Japanese (assuming you value your ears) , I tolerated 
 the English at first but it seemed to get gradually more cringe worthy as it goes along. The only 
 good thing I say about the dub is it doesn't ruin the slick jokes and quirky sense of humour apparent 
 in many of the games dialogue exchanges in fact occasionally it adds to it with its awfulness.
 
  
  Length wise there is certainly a lot to play through here, about 50-60 hours for the main plot 
 and the few subquests and much, much longer if you intend to level everyone up to maximum statistics. 
 There's also a nice little online mode in the style of Pokemon where your golems can duke it out 
 to see who the best Golem Trainer out there is.
  
  Overall Enchanted Arms delivers a decent JRPG which considering the almost complete absence of 
 this style of game on the original Xbox is a good start. The game has its faults, bad sound, merely 
 average plot, and not really bringing anything new to the table but on the same hand it's still 
 an amazing amount of fun with plenty to sink your teeth into, great combat, a good cast, and some 
 truly amusing dialogue. It's not the golden JRPG it would like to think it is, but it's one that 
 is worth playing through as your bound to enjoy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: amozarte
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 6, 2008 10:09 am PT
Review:  Enchanted Arms is a classic Japanese RPG. Though not 100% groundbreaking or original it isn't exactly 
 like any one single other game. Unique or not, it is quite an enjoyable game and well worth it 
 for anyone who likes RPGs.
  
  If I had to choose one previous RPG to which I could compare Enchanted Arms, it would have to be 
 Final Fantasy Tactics Advance. Like FFTA, the turn-based battles of the game take place on a grid. 
 You pit the unique abilities of each character on your roster against the numerous baddies you 
 randomly encounter throughout your travels.
  
  Speaking of your roster, in true RPG fashion you start with your main character and a couple of 
 friends. As you progress you collect "Golems", which I would liken to summons, except that each 
 Golem is it's own character and is not summoned by anyone. One of the highlights of this game is 
 the quantity and variety of Golems you can collect as well as the level of detail that went into 
 each Golem, not to mention the human characters!
  
  While the visuals may be stunning, particularly the in-battle animations, the voice acting and 
 storytelling can be annoying and even down right insulting. One character has a flaming lisp and 
 clothing that made me ask "Was that entirely necessary?" In addition, most of the controls are 
 mind-bogglingly simple (i. e. "Push A") but the game insists on forcing you through a cut scene 
 during which one of your companions provides you with a dissertation on the proper technique for 
 pushing A.
  
  Some would also argue that battles are too easy and become repetitive, but to that I would advise 
 simply switching out a few of your Golems- you'll be amazed how quickly the battle dynamic changes.
 
  
  In the long run, any complaints I might have are trivial at best. The bottom line is that I thoroughly 
 enjoyed myself while playing Enchanted Arms and if you like RPGs, you will too.
  
  Summary:
  
  Pros
  -Stunning Visuals
  -Wide variety of party members
  
  Cons
  -Fairly 
 linear
  -Unnecessary tutorials 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Isual
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 26, 2008 4:31 pm PT
Review:  Until some better RPG for the 360 comes out that is. This game can either be ridiculously easy 
 or hard depending on your RPG gaming xp. the bosses in the beginning can be a breeze, but once 
 you reach around the 25th percent of the game you'll start facing up to bosses where strategy, 
 grinding or a guide will help you beat them.
  
  the story... well most who have played it including myself will just simply say that it is nothing 
 but cliche'd and totally typical of a standard JRPG. you really wont give a damn about it at all 
 when compared to stunning comparisons such as FF or DQ. but hey its an RPG, and most fans will 
 play it if they own a 360.
  
  one good thing about this game, and hopefully future developers will put in is that there is both 
 english and japanese voices. just hearing the english voice cast while mediocre at best, is completely 
 horrendous in bringing the script. soo keep it in japanese please do. you wont regret.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Atsuma2K8
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 22, 2008 10:30 am PT
Review:  This is got to be one of the greatest RPGs of all time, i only brought it a few days ago and i 
 am already addicted to is breath taking story and hilarious voice script. Ok first i will go over 
 the graphics as everyone says it lets the game down. The Graphics are hard to judge, as if you 
 were strolling around the world the graphics are pretty bad, but if you look from a tall building 
 over a city the view is beautiful, anyway it doesnt really matter if the graphics are bad as long 
 as the gameplay and story is brilliant. If you look in the form for a voice acting form you will 
 see a long list of people who say the voice acting if excellent, this is why this a top RPG game. 
 Next i will go over the battle system and how it is unique. The battle system has you fighting 
 monsters called golems using HP and EP. The game has you and your opponent duel on a 8x6 grid split 
 in half, your players may move and attack or wait and recharge his/hers EP. Ep is Enchanted arms 
 way of saying MP.
  Ok that covers the Battle System outline now for the breath taking story. The story has you as a 
 teenager called Atsuma. You start your journey at a university and your mission is to stop the 
 powerful devil golems and get revenge of the killing of his friends, or are they dead. Now that 
 covers most of it and i dont want to bore you so i just end with a quick pointer. Enchanted Arms 
 has a funny way of displaying their achievements , as they are all secret when you start playing 
 the game and you unlock them by completing a boss fight. thanks for reading from Atsuma2k8. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TTDog
Rating: 6.5
Date: Feb 11, 2008 12:11 pm PT
Review:  There is a lack of JRPG's on all consoles this generation, so this game will pick up more custom 
 than it otherwise would do.
  
  It's a by the numbers RPG, teen characters full of angst, small annoying characters that are there 
 to add colour, and a story of unrequited love... only in this case the love interest is man on 
 man and boy do they dwell on it.
  
  Its not unusual to find a character in an RPG who's sexuality is "dubious" but here its not even 
 hidden, Makota is so openly homosexual its embarrasing.
  
  Thankfully his input into the game is limited, and the whole thing settles down to the usual mix 
 of exploring, fighting for the good cause, gathering your group of misfits and oddballs and wondering 
 just what it is about Atsuma's right arm that makes the evil ice queen so obsessed with it.
  
  The battle system is one of the best I've seen for a while, both sides have a 12 block grid, 
 limited movement depending on the location of your team and there size and all attacks and cure 
 spells have a set range which will change and increase as your teams skills improve.
  
  Sadly its tacked onto a random battle system that I thought had vanished into the long distant 
 past, even Final Fantasy has ditched the random battle mechanic.
  
  There's the usual JRPG twist in that you will end up fighting a member of your own team at some 
 point, I'll refrain from giving it away but you'll soon work out who and why.
  
  The whole homosexual theme established at the start continues throughout, even down to one conversation 
 about fisting that could easily have been left out without taking anything from the game, as could 
 a few other references the game sees fit to rub in your face.
  
  Its worth a look if you desperately want an old fashioned JRPG, but we've moved on from games like 
 this a long time ago. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: John666666666
Rating: 2
Date: Jan 19, 2008 9:33 am PT
Review:  I recently bought the X-BOX 360 Arcade Edition and decided to buy Enchanted Arms and Mass Effect. 
 Enchanted Arms looked like a good RPG, though I didn't know anything about it since this was the 
 first time I bought a X-BOX system.
  
  I was extreamly dissappointed in this game. I expected a lot more. I'll go over the list of problems 
 that I had with it. First the so called graphics weren't that great, the were even a little worse 
 the the PS2 average RPG, and this is supposed to be the X-BOX 360. Then there is the story which 
 didn't make any sence and wasn't interesting. Next was the game play, which was slow, and added 
 to the boredom. Finally we have the characters, who were uninteresting
  and didn't care whether they lived or died. Atsuma was the worst of them all, he got on my nerves 
 and was annyoing, and he was the main character. 
  
  Overall one of the worst RPGs I've played with the likes of Magna Carta for the PS2. I really hope 
 X-BOX 360 is coming out with some better RPGs in the future becasue it's my favorite type of game 
 to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LsTr_Of_SmG
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 18, 2008 4:35 pm PT
Review:  Despite the covers' claims of a 50 hour storyline, it took 25ish hours to finish the story (and 
 that INCLUDES pausing to go to the toilet and have dinner - mind you I am notorious for rushing 
 through RPGs and not levelling up my character a lot. I prefer to have the last boss become an 
 almost insurmountable challenge to be overcome through clever tactics rather than the brute force 
 of my level 185476964 main character) . That said the game was fairly enjoyable with the battle 
 system being particularly refreshing (much better than the most recent Final Fantasy attempts of 
 spicing up turn based combat) . The story was pretty throwaway but then again most RPG stories these 
 days unfortunately tend to be.
  
  Overall I'd give the game about a 6.5 / 7.5 depending on whether you're into JRPG's. If like me 
 you are, but are sick of Square constantly rehashing the Final Fantasy games in newer more graphically 
 impressive iterations (I mean come on FFXII might have been alright but let's face it the series 
 hasn't moved on since FFX - AT THE LATEST!) then I suggest you check it out - though you'll need 
 some perserverance to stick through the games opening section (dull) thankfully it picks up quickly 
 after this.
  
  While hardly genre defining it does have some nice ideas and the FMV sequences are easily up there 
 with the equivalent offerings from Final Fantasy.
  
  Overall if you've played a lot of JRPGs then you wont find a lot new here, but you're unlikely 
 to find a lot to complain about either and such the game is worth a play. If you haven't then this 
 game is a solid example of the genre and a good one to start with. 
  
  Final score: 6.9
  
  Score breakdown:
  
  Graphics: 7 - While some sections are quite nice to look at, dull textures 
 and poor animation ruin other areas of the game.
  
  Sound: 6 - While there IS an option to have Japanese audio this is of little consolation when faced 
 with the frankly awful English dub (which is barely even functional) . Music is fairly generic but 
 functional at least.
  
  Gameplay: 7 - A nice battle system and golems help to spice things up, niggles over inability to 
 use items on other characters and ether 'collection' quests pull down the game down though. Character 
 development is highly intuitive andallows for some customisation.
  
  Story: 6 - Typical but ultimately well thought out JRPG storyline. Stand out sections are the development 
 of Atsuma as a character and the Toya side story. The game also satirises a number of JRPG cliches 
 which is nice to see. Example: A character subtitled 'Giggling Man' keeps trying to say his real 
 name but the main characters repeatedly interrupt him. Unfortunately the story is, overall, ultimately 
 extremely forgettable and the below average voice acting throughout lowers the sense of wonder.
 
  
  Lifespan: 7 - There are technically two different endings to the game dependant on one choice near 
 the end, which seems a bit half arsed. unfortunately these endings can both be aquired simply by 
 reloading the game just before the choice is made. The game took me 35 hours to 
  complete compared to the 50 hours cited on the case (25ish hours for the story alone) , mind you 
 35 hours is still a relatively long time for a game these days - albeit short for the genre. 
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: VitaExodus
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 10, 2008 9:01 am PT
Review:  Enchanted arms, quite a bizzare RPG I recently picked up at the rentals - Much like overlord, it 
 has a very solid core gameplay, but with a lack of polish and other flaws here and there, it urks 
 you that the game could've been in the world of awesomeness. Or something.
  
  The World of Golems: 1000 years ago yada yada war with something humans shouldn't have been tampering 
 with yadda, but that's not where the story really tends to go - You'll find it's far more towards 
 the characters, and the strange turn of events.
  
  The Sound of Insanity:
  
  Most people will be either laughing in hysterics, or turned off by the 1st hour or so by the dialogue 
 between Atsuma, Toya, and Makoto. Well needless to say something/someone of unspeakable horror 
 is released, and it needs to be stopped... Yes, the story is a bit generic, but the dialogue, whether 
 intended or not, is extremely rewarding to amuse yourself with - About every 15 minutes (or less) , 
 you'll find a hilarious line simply for its stupidity.
  
  The look of Enchanted Arms:
  
  Well, I'm not gonna lie, it looks more like a pretty good ps2 game or the like, the dialogue 
 "scenes" are particular dissapointing in that remark, I think the programmers may have been a bit 
 lazy in producing them - even FF9 or below's style of text would've been fine, but it looked more 
 like Japanese animated models doing auditions for the lines. Nonetheless, the dialogue itself will 
 be amusing enough, to reiterate, that you won't really be thinking about that anyways.
  
  The Core Gameplay: This is what truly shines about Enchanted Arms - Evidently ubisoft and software 
 decided to mix Pokemon and Mega man battle network to produce an interesting mix of turn-based 
 RPG and the standing-in-the-square bit from MMBN. Although some may argue some parts of the RPG 
 make it a little easy: HP and EP (mana/energy) refill after every battle, but there are also counter-measures 
 for this. VP, vitality points, decrease every time you get attacked, die, or stay dead for a while 
 in battle - Once this hits 0, you're in a state of being barely alive until you find a recharge 
 station.
  
  Also the choices of the Boss AI can challenge the player as well, The Fire Emperor in particular 
 took a good 10+ tries until I managed to survive. One of the enjoyable parts was what I mentioned 
 before of mixing pokemon, golems are spread all around the world, whether through recieving from 
 killing bosses, lost golems, or what have you. These can actually replace any of your party members (other 
 than atsuma) which can add a lot of variety to battles. This can be important for fighting creatures 
 of certain elements, multiple creatures, etc.
  
  The Bottom Line: The game has solid gameplay with a lot to collect, and even a casino to gamble 
 at. However what holds it back from greatness is the lack of graphics for an xbox 360 game (even 
 for a JRPG) , and the storyline just felt like a mix of every other RPG I've done before. If you 
 have a sense of humor, there are 100 moments to just look at the screen and giggle for a good minute. 
 It's a definite rental, but as for buying, Try Eternal Sonata or Elder Scrolls first, unless you're 
 really itching for a Turn-Based RPG. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spiredcrescent
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jan 6, 2008 5:59 pm PT
Review:  Enchanted arms is a story about a boy named Atsuma who has an arm that uses negative magic energy. 
 It takes place in a world of magic but has cities with names you might recognize. The game is set 
 up as you play a maximum of 4 players in a battle and you can have golems with you as well. Golems 
 are basically like Pokemon. Except you build them instead of catching them. They fight and gain 
 experience like a regular character except they are not part of the story, except for the Devil 
 Golems. Devil Golems are like gods. The story uses humor in dialogue that makes any RPG fan laugh 
 just because it is so cheesy. Graphics are on par and the music may make you want to take a nap. 
 This all would be easy to overlook if the gameplay didn't suck so bad. Walking around on FF 7 was 
 more fun than walking around in Enchanted Arms. The reactions with the environment are totally 
 lame and uneventful. The battle system is similar to Final Fantasy Tactics, but the moves are long 
 and suppose to look great, but they fail miserably. All of the moves are overextended and create 
 a bore fest. You also will find yourself in linear appearing worlds where it all looks the same. 
 Only Hardcore fans with nothing else to play will play this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IrkinGod89
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 30, 2007 7:39 pm PT
Review:  Beside it being one of the only rpg's out there for the 360, Enchanted Arms has an excellent turn-based 
 style that I can only compare to as mixing Final Fantasy and Final Fantasy Tactics together. This 
 is an average rpg; a puzzle here and there, some hidden chests all that stuff. The thing that stands 
 out for me about this game is the way points are distributed and the characters. 
  The seperation of skill points and experience points strays away from your average "level up and 
 gain a skill" rule. Skill points are won by fighting battles and depending on how many people or 
 golems are in your party at a time you get more skill points. Skill points are assigned to you 
 Hp, Ep (or in other game Mp) , direct (strength) , support (defense) , and agility.
  Now the characters are truely a sight to behold, mainly Makoto and the Pizza faced golem. Makoto 
 is a male tranvestite who also happens to be friends with Atsuma and Toya. Makoto is deeply in 
 love with Toya and will nag you for every little thing, (even if you didn't do it!) . Overall, this 
 game is fun for you who like turn-based games now go to GameCrazy and buy it used (not like me 
 the idiot who bought it new for $50) and play with me! my gamer tag is Fifis. Hope You enjoy the 
 game and it's many hours of play as I am. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 3bandman
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 24, 2007 12:31 am PT
Review:  I rented this game 3 times before I bought it. Each time I played the first fight and couldn't 
 continue. Once I bought it and gave it a chance I realized this game really had something going 
 on!
  This game is really fun! I do think that final fantasy has better music and stories for the most 
 part, but this game was super awesome. The hardest thing for me was getting past the flamboyant 
 Makato in the game at first. Once I got past it being awkward I zoomed through the game. One thing 
 I didn't like too much was the fact that there was so many characters to choose from and you really 
 didn't use them except for boss fights. It's weird not using main characters in main fights. Still 
 that really isn't that big of a deal and shouldn't keep anyone from playing this game.
  The story is great, it keeps you interested even if it is a little predictable. Connecting with 
 the characters was fun too. Overall... This game was worth the price and more! Tid bit silly. But 
 come on, How can you not like CRAZY PIZZA!?!?!?! Super funny ending too :P
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mjcowley
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 15, 2007 8:00 pm PT
Review:  It was the first JRPG for the 360 and the first Next-Gen RPG that I had picked up personally.
 
  
  The stand out aspects of Enchanted Arms is the high quality graphics, cut scenes and unique fighting 
 style. If I had to pick negatives, I'd have to say the sometimes corny voice acting and fact that 
 when you get to the final boss you are to dam weak to win! Don't get me wrong, the voice acting 
 is fantastic and really makes you feel for the characters which is a big part of an RPG for me, 
 they just go a little overboard now and then, but it is all in fun. You'll want to finish the game 
 to simply find out what happens, but the gameplay won't let you down and it doesn't feel like a 
 grind, even when you find you need to level up more to beat the final boss.
  
  I won't dribble on to much more, because this game is now only about $20AUD new from eBay and most 
 retailers for 360 and PS3. So why don't you try it for yourself? I think you'll be surprised at 
 just how good it really is. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dreww93
Rating: 4
Date: Dec 10, 2007 1:18 pm PT
Review:  did you play play enchanted arms personaly i thought it was toatal turd burger and it still gets 
 a good reviw i men the name looks promising but then you get playing and peoples mouths are moving 
 and nothing is coming out and it plays the same ambient music the whole and bt the time i furgured 
 it out i had to returrn the game to the local videore hire is just 70%carp so when you think of 
 even contplating buying this game hire it first just to make sure it is worth it and contiuning 
 with the game the batle system is prety avarage if you like chess of games where you are just solving 
 puzzles then you will gravatate torwards this but if you like fast paced contiuinaly hammering 
 the x or a button then i would highly sugst trying sompthing like assains creed 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OnlyCommonSense
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 6, 2007 5:08 am PT
Review:  One word springs to mind when considering Enchanted Arms Adequate.
  The only difference that Enchanted Arms has over any other JRPG (aside from being the only one 
 available up until Blue Dragon hit the shelves) is that it contains more homosexual references 
 than any other game ever, and that includes the dodgy looking Metal Gear sold footage on the PS3.
 
  From the opening cinematic it is very clear that one male character, Makoto, prefers to indulge 
 in sordid activity with other men, thankfully not your character but your best mate.
  The references are not even subtle, and don't stop with him either, there is one conversation later 
 in the game revolving around "fisting" that we can all do without.
  The plot is clich ridden but nicely implemented, at least it is first time through, although there 
 is little to justify playing it twice, and the battle system, which uses a grid system for positioning 
 your characters and the range of their attacks is a good one.
  As usual with JRPG's there are also characters that you just want to slaughter yourself, even the 
 excellent Eternal Sonata has those, but you can thankfully leave them out of your main party most 
 of the time.
  Conversations suck however, despite all the power of the 360 these are dreadful.
  The top portion 
 of your character appears set against a static background and talks, sometimes without moving their 
 lips, there are occasions later in the game where NPC's enter the conversation and are so obviously 
 NPC's that they don't even get a proper name, or a unique graphic.
  One conversation in a resistance base has two identical NPC's talking and they share the same picture, 
 not good, not good at all.
  Random battles also make an appearance, the bane of any good RPG, and are enough at times to drive 
 you insane, you can run away but you'll be thrust into another one within a few seconds so there 
 is little chance to recover.
  Its not a bad game, but not brilliant either, the battle system alone drags it out of the mediocre 
 game category, but I'd hate to have to play it through again, I couldn't stand the constant homosexual 
 overtone for a start, if you've got the patience to play through a dull plot with a few hateful 
 characters then it could be worth a rent, but its not something I'd recommend.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pure_Awesome
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 21, 2007 3:26 am PT
Review:  Enchanted Arms is the first Japanese Turn Based Role Playing Game to come out on the xbox 360. 
 And it pulls the job off quite well. The date of the game takes place 1000 years after the Golem 
 war, back then humans used magic to create servants known as golems. When one day all the golems 
 became hostile, the very powerful golems called devil golems were sealed away to prevent another 
 war.
  
  In the present, you play the main character named Atsuma, who is studying at the Enchant University 
 in the city called Yokohama, who has an unknown power in his arm, that later on you discover will 
 be the key point in the story.
  
  The slow beginning of the game may be a put off for people, walking around the university and buying 
 lunch, but after a while the story starts to pick up and gets more exciting.
  
  In the game there are 4 key main characters that you are with you for most of the game, that you 
 can have in your party, but what makes Enchanted Arms so unique is that there are also around another 
 100 characters you can use, in the game you are able to capture certain Golems either by seeing 
 them in the world when you are not in a battle. Or you can purchase them at the shop. Once you 
 capture one, you will need a certain amount of Speed, Mind and Power gems to create them. Golems 
 go up in level, but cannot gain any new skills than the ones they have. The same system goes for 
 creating new weapons for the 4 main characters.
  
  Role Playing Games are famous other than their long engaging stories is their turn based combat 
 system, Battles generally occur in Enchanted Arms by "random encounters" this is where every couple 
 of steps you take walking around the world, all of a sudden a sound and a animation
  appears on the screen which indicates to the player that a battle is about to start, these battles 
 occur a bit too often.
  
  Once a battle starts, your characters are on a 4x3 grid. In general RPG's your characters are stuck 
 in the same position, but in Enchanted Arms, your characters get to move around the grid
  
  which gives you more strategy. If you want a battle over and done with as quickly as possible just 
 select the auto function and all your characters auto attack with the best move they can do in 
 their position. Along with this feature, is the Fast forward button, which can be used when ever 
 anyone is attacking and generally reduces the watching time by half. Each of the main characters 
 gains new abilities throughout the game. All abilities use EP (Ether Points) which can be replenished 
 by using a items or waiting a turn during a battle. All the abilities have a range made up by squares 
 on the grid. Main Characters also build up gauge called EX, once it is high enough to use a skill, 
 players can use it to use a powerful skill similar to Final Fantasy's Limit Breaks. Once a battle 
 is over all characters HP (Health Points) and EP is filled but all characters lose some Vitality 
 Points depending on how many rounds it took to defeat the enemy, where once all of a characters 
 VP is depleted they will start each battle with 1hp and 1ep until it is restored.
  
  Some of the Disappointments in the game are that the game has the potential to put out fantastic 
 graphics, but this is let down by "still" graphics. If you travel past a tree or anything it does 
 not move at all. Being next generation this is a bit of let down. Another thing is that when you 
 are in a town or major city, generally in RPG's you can go into lots of buildings to shop. But 
 in Enchanted Arms all your shopping can only be done by a floating diamond that you see floating 
 around each area. And if you attempt to go into a house, there is a brief conversation which basically 
 ends up, in the tenants telling Atsuma to get out.
  
  The Voice acting is not that great, you will find some characters insanely annoying. But thankfully 
 the game includes a fantastic option to swap your English voices for Japanese that sounds much 
 better.
  
  Enchanted Arms is a fantastic game but has some let downs that are easy to get over and can leave 
 you with a game that lasts over 40 hours and gives you a very satisfying story. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: afq2846
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 17, 2007 8:18 am PT
Review:  Enchanted arms is the xbox 360's version of a final fantasy style RPG. Its japanese style so you 
 get the japanese anime version of the characters. You also get the long takling scenes in between 
 fighting. You literally sit and wait five mins to go through the dialogue scenes. Get ready to 
 press that A button over and over again as you try to fly by those scenes. They tend to slow the 
 game down and really do not help the game play. The difference between this game and other RPGs 
 is the fighting system. Its grid based with your characters on one side of the grid and the enemies 
 on the other side. You move your characters over the grid and then you fight. Its a different style 
 of fighting. You have your basic leveling up to make your characters stronger. You also get other 
 characters called golems. They are characters that you get to create throughout the game. Some 
 of them are strong some of them well are colorful. You get to carry eight of them in your party 
 as well as your other main four characters. Getting the acheivement points in this game is easy. 
 All you have to go is go through the game and you will get them. Graphics in this game are pretty 
 good as is the sound. Part of the problem is the fighting. You tend to keep fighting over and over 
 again and after awhile it becomes boring. Thank goodness they gave you an auto fighting feature 
 so you could fight and not have to pay attention. The game overall is fun even with the dead parts. 
 There are also some side quests where you fight four bosses and then you go into the beast shrine 
 and get a powerful golem. Its a must have because in going through the shrine you power up your 
 characters so much that the final battle is not very hard. This game is worth a purchase because 
 it gives you a lot of play time and it is fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: havik0666
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 31, 2007 5:24 pm PT
Review:  The game is pretty good, Ubisoft didn't scrap this game ^^ The game is a Tactics RPG with specific 
 moving range and range attack. You have a 2 way element effect Ex: Fire beat the Water, but water 
 can also beat the fire. They have 6  and Wind. You have Many 
 thecniques and support skills for you're characters and you can boost the parameter of you're characters 
 with SP (Special Points, win a little amount after a battle) . The graphic are not so bad at all but 
 they still have some little bug. The story is awesome, It's Immersive! You can collect many golems 
 (128 I think) and many weapons. You have a lot of boss to beat, some Boss are truly hard so train 
 characters is very ussefull. You can do some combo wtih each characters and link attack, that make 
 you made more money, XP and SP (very nice, I love that system) . The game is a quite long (for me 41h 
 and many minutes to finish this game) .
  
  So if you love Tactic RPG you should buy this game, you won't regret it ^^.
  So see you to my 
 next Review. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shadowysea07
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 11, 2007 11:17 am PT
Review:  I got bored and aggrivated with the main characters. Karin was a good one but her voice actor had 
 lifeless voice syndrome like vivi in the one piece dub.
  Raigar was okay but kinda like background scenary Had a great VA. Yuki was a pain in the @SS but 
 in the beginning up to the london castle i liked her character. But her story was just plain annoying. 
 Toya had the best personality and va in my opinion matched the character. Makato uhhh i don't want 
 to touch that. 0_O
  
  Graphics were great The clouds looked so real XD. Too bad they didn't widen the map : ( it would 
 of been nice ot explore. So the story goes About 10,000 years ago Humans had great magic ability 
 and made Golems to do all the stuff most humans consider to troublesome. Maids and butlers who 
 could kill at command. Well anyway There were 3 golems made that were to strong and almost destroyed 
 the world. The Queen of Ice, The emperor of Fire and the Lord of earth. They were called devil 
 golems. They had to have a human sacrifice to work otherwise they'd only last about 10 minutes. 
 After the golem war the few remaining cities imprisoned the devil's deep underground and rebuilt. 
 It was never explained how they were defeated and the government kept it from public knowledge 
 soon after so most people forgot about it except for the fairytales and legends.
  
  Now they fastforward to Atsuma a lazy avoided student at an enchanting university. He has the rare 
 ability to remove enchants with his right arm so he's avoided by almost everyone since enchanting 
 is one of their basic ways to survive. one day while they were skipping class as usual for Atsuma 
 to go to the towns annual festival the golems start to go berserk after a huge earthquake. So he 
 and the others help everyone in town and then rush to the accademy to help the people who may still 
 be there and grab his dog Cota. Well when they get there they hear cota barking and chase after 
 him. They arrive to the sealed ward. Atsuma hears cota bark and continues his persuit. Makato rejects 
 the idea but Toya however doesn't want to leave Atsuma on his own so as much ot Makato's dismay 
 they continue down the steps until the floor collapes. they continue until they arrive at a sealed 
 chamber where atsuma's arm starts to react to ether ( enchant users say its what runs the worlds 
 technology) and he hears a voice that says follow my command advance. Toya seems concerned and 
 thinks they should go back but atsuma pushes forward. Then his arm goes crazy and tries to absorb 
 the queen of ice but instead she is revived and attacks. After she easily defeats atsuma and makato 
 she goes after Toya. But he proves to much even for her so she instead attacks the weakened atsuma. 
 Toya jumps in the way and gets ice shoved through his chest. Atsuma's arm activate and he attacks 
 Queen of ice. His arm deactivates her regeneration ability but his body can't keep up so he faints 
 before delivering the final blow DX. So then she takes toya and flys away after freezing the remaining 
 people in the city.
  
  So after that you gather up as many golems go back to the city along with the 2 new characters 
 you get from london city. The you walk alot nad get tired of all the freaking random battles and 
 go from location to location. I didn't like most of the battles and the fact that you only get 
 4 main characters. All the golems you get don't speak english which sucks. You keep going battling 
 random monsters and stupid humans who side with the golems. You survive Princess Karins cooking 
 which it seems they censored it don't know why o_0
  
  The only tough battles are the battles with the emperor of fire Raigars gf the mysterman and the 
 final battle was waay to easy it left me empty cause all you have to do is level up big whoop. 
 game ends with a gay kiss and cornyness. If you ignore most of the characters it was an alright 
 game.
  It left me wanting more. I Like how you cna just buy characters than just getting stuck with an 
 annoying set. It would of been so cool if each golem had a past story or something. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zgreenwell
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 9, 2007 10:31 am PT
Review:  This game is fun but it really suffers for a few reasons. The voice acting and story feel quite 
 forced and the random battles. Those are the two things the almost kill this game.
  
  The visuals and music in this game are pretty good, and the battle system can be pretty fun. Its 
 actually pretty unique way of fighting using a grid system. Making and collecting golems can keep 
 you entertained for a while and the bosses are all pretty fun to fight.
  
  My favorite part of the game was the casino. I don't know why I was so drawn to it, but I spent 
 a lot of time there earning the prizes by playing bingo. So its a good distraction from the game's 
 plot.
  
  Really even with several good things about this game you'll have a hard time enjoying it, because 
 of the annoying encounters. The story doesn't help push you along, because any plot twist are obvious. 
 You basically will continue to play to fight the next boss, which feels rewarding to beat, but 
 you'll be constantly annoyed in between. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: diablobasher
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 8, 2007 5:49 am PT
Review:  Enchanted Arms is the first JRPG to hit Microsoft's Xbox 360, but hopefully, not the last, because 
 it certainly does neither the genre, nor the console justice.
  
  Graphically, Enchanted Arms looks nice, for the most part it is bright and coloerful, and technicly 
 proficient. However a lot of areas have some pretty severe lighting issues, and the developers 
 clearly have no prior experience with normal and specular mapping, leaving some areas far too bright, 
 or very dark but stupidly shiny, leaving the screen almost black, with speckles of white.
  
  That said, the characters look nice and animate well, and the majority of environments are 
 nice to look at and well put together.
  
  Enchanted Arms has a lot of pacing problems, the game major flaw is it's complete inability to 
 provide appropriate strength enemies for your level, this is not helped by the large amount of 
 backtracking through previously visited areas, with the same, weak enemies.
  
  Unfortunately, because of the inbalance of opponent strengths, this leaves you a painfull choice 
 if you wish to become powerful enough to beat some of the games rediculously overpowered bosses. 
 You either grind on these much weaker enemies, and take literally, tens of hours to reach an appropriatte 
 power level, or you can simply boost your HP by abusing the ability to buy skill points, and winning 
 heaps of money at the casino.
  
  Unfortunately, the more logical option is by cheating the casino, which extremely tedious, and 
 could be totally avoided had the developers included a few more areas in the game, and worked a 
 little longer on balancing.
  
  The game does have some good however, in the form of it's battle system. You are given two grids 
 of 3x4 squares, one fo you, and one for your enemy to move around on. You choose your moves, and 
 press the play button to watch the turn unfold, or you can select an auto option, where the computer 
 will choose a simple action.
  
  There are some other changes from the traditional RPG formula too, such as VP. Each character starts 
 every fight on full HP and EP (Equivilent to MP) but after each fight, your VP is reduced. When 
 it reaches 0, your character becomes tired and unable to fight, and from then on begins each battle 
 with 1hp and 1ep. This is an interesting mechanic which allows you to concentrate more on beating 
 your enemy, and not constantly checking your menu to see how much HP/MP your characters have left, 
 and whether or not it's enough to make a bolt for the save point.
  
  You can also create 'golems' creatures which can fight alongside you instead of your human teammates, 
 there are a decent number of these to collect, but sadly, most of them are rubbish, and there is 
 no reason to collect more than the ones you need. A missed opportunity for an achievement that 
 may have added 5-6 hours of gameplay onto the games main quest, which should take between 30 and 
 35 hours to get through. Enchanted Arms plot follows what feels like a massively straightforward 
 version of a generic anime/JRPG plotline. Atsuma, the games protagonist has little memory of his 
 past, and as the plot unfolds in a very generic and unimaginitive manner.
  
  While the game does have some very limited sidequests, they dont add too much to the game.
  
 
  The game presents little in the way of complex puzzles, with most dungeon areas you will need 
 to collect 2 or 3 amounts of ether from terminal scattered around the dungeon in order to activate 
 the exit, and continue. None of these are placed cleverly, or require any thought to get to. You 
 just get the feeling they needed something to keep the player running around.
  
  While Enchanted Arms has an overwhelming number of bad features, including the terrible voice acting 
 (although thankfully, you can switch to the much more proficient Japanese track) it still manages 
 to be enjoyable thanks to it's innovative battle system, and well designed characters, despite 
 the sheer amount of lost potential. We can only hope that the developers learn from this, and create 
 a much better experience next time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ThaSod
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 26, 2007 4:14 am PT
Review:  Enchanted Arms is the first Japanese RPG for the Xbox 360. So perhaps it can be forgiven some faults 
 as a trailblazer. And, really, it does innovate in some areas, but the parts it does poorly make 
 it feel like a terrible waste of time.
  As I said, this game isn't all bad, so I will start with the good points. The combat system changes 
 up the normal turn based system with a grid. You'll still take turns, but you'll have a limited 
 range to your attacks or heals, etc, so a larger element of strategy is added. You also have the 
 ability to synthesize golems to work for you. But you barely need them since for 90% of the game 
 you have 3 companions that are better than any golem.
  The visuals are beautiful and there are occasional bits of scenery that could even be called breathtaking. 
 The music is decent, and you won't get sick of it. And, for those who trudge through the whole 
 game, the ending is satisfying. And that is the last good thing I'll say about the plot.
  Now for the bad parts. Other than the ending, the attempts to bring out emotion in the plot and 
 character development fall flat. The plot is painful to follow due to the awful voice-acting and 
 dialog writing. There are a few cut scenes that go on and on and on... Pretty early you'll start 
 skipping most of the dialog and you won't miss anything really.
  But at least you can skip the dialog and most of the plot. Sadly, you can't really skip all the 
 massive amount of random encounters you'll find. There is a fast forward feature that does little 
 to relieve this tedium, and when you do the auto battle, the AI is so braindead that the battle 
 is actually longer because it takes more rounds to defeat your enemies.
  The worst offense of Enchanted Arms is that it is empty. Except for one part where you can run 
 around and collect verbal evidence to free one of your friends, none of the people you run into 
 have anything interesting to say. Almost all of the chests and crates you find are irrelevant as 
 well, since, with a few exceptions, you'll only find money or the equally boring gems.
  So when you endure 7 random encounters to scout out a hidden alcove, you are generally rewarded 
 with a chest containing some Tabs (money) . Wooo.
  Oh and did I mention that there are way too many hand holding tutorials for stuff like climbing 
 a ladder?
  Go up to the ladder and Press A to climb it.
  Did you understand?
  yes/no
  no: then I'll repeat myself.
  If you love JRPGs and can stand the random encounters, then you'll 
 probably like this game. And like I said, the ending made me feel a little better about it. But 
 for most of you, I can't recommend this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shadow_Fire41
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 22, 2007 3:38 pm PT
Review:  a fun, funny, violent, Pokemon like game.
  you see, you go around trying to stop this evil golem or robot.
  like Pokemon you collect a bunch 
 of creatures, unlike Pokemon they are called golems, also the actual characters fight to unlike 
 those lazy-ass trainers in Pokemon.
  and unlike in Pokemon, you don't catch them, you find one thats standing there, fight it, beat 
 it, and rebuild it, or you can buy the blueprints, either one.
  the graphics, all i can say there is, wow.
  combat isn't too sophisticated but there are hard 
 parts to it i assure you.
  
  all in all it's a good game, but a few drawbacks.
  rent it first, if you like, buy it, if not, don't. that simple. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZaneStriker
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 17, 2007 7:39 pm PT
Review:  When I first picked up Enchanted Arms I was more than a little dubious, and with good reason, as 
 the first true Japanese RPG released onto the next gen consoles and more importantly onto the Xbox 
 360 Enchanted Arms had a lot to live up to and many of us held our breath in hopes of another Final 
 Fantasy VII, but alas our dreams were snatched from us and dashed upon the brutal rocks of a western 
 shore. A little mellow dramatic perhaps but it gets my point across.
  
  Enchanted Arms is a great stand alone RPG with a solid, if predictable and sometimes rather immature 
 story and characters. If your a fan of the the beautiful stories of the Final Fantasy series or 
 the complexity of the .Hack world then this isn't the game your after, but as there is little else 
 in the world of gaming at the moment for those of us that live and breath JRPGs we have little 
 choice at times.
  
  The game looks great compared to many of the other RPGs on the next gen consoles and the voice 
 acting puts some of the newer RPGs to shame and if your just looking for something to keep those 
 cravings at bay then this is for you. The story is as I said before, solid but at times immature 
 and always predictable but despite all of it's flaws it still manages to draw you in and make you 
 want to finish it, if only to see truly how stupid the characters can become. The characters themselves 
 have some great potential but it feels as if they were just churned out in mass, leaving them generic 
 and cliched and for the most part fairly annoying.
  
  The battle system was something that surprised me and made me feel all warm and fuzzy inside but 
 at times it feels clunky and controlling. The ability to change your characters skills and the 
 number of said skills makes up for the lack of a simple fight or attack command, if barely, while 
 the ability to move around and in and out of range on a static battle field while remaining turn 
 based was an interesting change from many of today's RPGs and one that I thoroughly enjoyed. My 
 only real issue with the battle system are the golems, creatures that make me think of poke'mon 
 that once your human characters are powerful enough to survive traveling from place to place become 
 completely useless in my experience. Unable to learn new skills or equipping new weapons they feel 
 stale and more of a hindrance then any kind of help in battle.
  
  Plainly put, I enjoyed this game. It was fun and it filled in those hours where I was bored and 
 didn't feel like gunning down aliens. I would recommend it but don't put to much into this game, 
 you can achieve all the achievements by simply beating the game with no side quests etc needed 
 to unlock any. If you buy this game just persevere with it and I promise it will get better as 
 it goes on. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kagomesango
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 5, 2007 6:13 pm PT
Review:  Like I said this is a good game the graphics were great the voice acting could use some improvement. 
 It was fun trying to collect all of the golems I think I used the golem more the Karin but the 
 battle system was good it was like playing chess. The cutscenes were perfect I just wish the were 
 more cutscenes and less talking they talked way too much. The story line was good but there could 
 of been more to it but overall it is still a good game but the replay value for me is low. I've 
 tried to start over again but I couldn't go it I had already done so much 
::::::

::::::
UserName: untitledcause
Rating: 5
Date: Aug 30, 2007 7:48 am PT
Review:  Enchanted Arms for the Xbox 360 is one of the most average game ever; average in every aspect. 
 The battle system is ho-hum, the characters suck, and the graphics are passable at best. Even the 
 mini games (casino games) are average. Like many other JRPGs, the games final boss is not even 
 the strongest and the hardest boss is also average. The ending offers no redemption, just an hour 
 and a half long, boring boss. The locals are just as boring, a forest, a desert, an ice palace 
 (blah, blah, blah) Everything about the game is sublime; there is no reason to replay it, and 
 if you cannot resist the gay characters or the horrid storyline, rent it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 43n1m4
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 5, 2007 6:27 am PT
Review:  Enchanted Arms is one of the first JRPG games I've tried since FF VII, so my review isn't based 
 on countless hours of JRPG gaming. Instead, I will review this game on its own merits, be that 
 positive or negative.
  
  With that out of the way, lets look at Enchanted Arms. The main character, Atsuma, whom you will 
 be very familiar with on the course of the game, is rather annoying. Especially in the beginning 
 of the game. But if you get past the first first 10% of the game (which will take about 6 hours) , 
 things start to get better in terms of character development. Atsuma sure has some of the dumbest 
 lines in modern gaming history, and if it weren't for the rather interesting teammates, this game 
 would get old fast. The game hints are rather annoying, as even the simplest things must be explained 
 thoroughly - like climbing stairs (a single press on A) , or using elevators etc. And these explanations 
 continue throughout the game.
  
  The story, without spoiling too much, has its high and lows, but basically its as solid as the 
 rest of the game. Unfortunately many of the main topics, themes and twists, will be repeated by 
 the main characters to a point where you'll guess the next step before you get there.
  
  As for the combat mechanics, they work rather well. Which is fortunate, as fighting are very frequent 
 - to the point of getting tedious. Expect long breaks from this game, as progress is impeded by 
 the amount of fights you'll have get through. Fortunately there is a 'auto-combat' button, which 
 is useful againt some of the more common enemies.
  
  The difficulty level of the game is a mixed bag, as generally the fights are relatively easy - 
 but some of the boss fights, especially towards the end, are rather tough. At the end, you'll have 
 to prepare for some backtracking to make your characters strong enough. And backtracking may be 
 the games weakest point. It seems like the developers stretched the game by making us wander through 
 large areas in order to get back to a road previously closed. Enchanted Arms may not be a brilliant 
 game. But the story is solid, its characters solid, the combat great the backtracking elements 
 weak, which makes the game .... solid. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PandaSamurai
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 30, 2007 12:32 pm PT
Review:  Enchanted Arms was the first Japanese RPG to be released on the Xbox 360, and most Americans really 
 didn't like the game. However, Enchanted Arms is an enjoyable and refined experience that worthy 
 of being the first JRPG on the Xbox 360. In the world of Enchanted Arms, robot like creatures called 
 Golems do work for humans, but there are also special types of ultra powerful golems, called Devil 
 Golems. You play as Atsuma, a brash, naive, and headstrong teenager who attends the Enchant Academy. 
 Enchanting in this game is a sort of weak form of magic. Magic was lost long ago in the Golem War. 
 One of Atsuma's arms has the power to destroy rather than enchant, so all enchant-based machinery 
 he touches with that arm starts to malfunction. While trying to find his dog, Cota, Atsuma and 
 his two friends, the ice spear-wielding Toya, and the rather awkward Makoto run into a forbidden 
 ground of sorts. Atsuma's arm ends up awakening Yokohama's Devil Golem, the Queen of Ice. I won't 
 go further than that to avoid spoilers.
  
  Graphics: The graphics in Enchanted Arms are simply wonderful, despite Gamespot's ludicrous score 
 for that category. The art is pretty well drawn, and the bright, extremely shiny and detailed world 
 will draw you in. A large variety in environments and some really pretty places may remind you 
 of Wild Arms 4 The water is especially nice, but the swimming effects look quite dated. Your characters 
 EX Skills (Essentially super attacks) are incredibly pleasing to look at. It's hard to be disappointed 
 with the visuals in Enchanted Arms. The graphics seem like a next gen version of Shadow Hearts 
 with a few more bright environments to me.9/10
  
  Sound: This is where the game doesn't do too well. While unlike Gamespot claims, the music never 
 actually stops, it is very soft at certain points, and the music that is there is just a short, 
 repetitive tune being looped. Although, the intro and ending pieces are nice, and the music in 
 the cities is pretty good. Sound effects in battle are satisfying and fitting. The voice acting 
 is not nearly as bad as most people make it out to be. There is only one case where it is evident 
 the recording of the voices was at different times and there is no emphasis on the word that should 
 be emphasized. Some of the writing is a little stilted, which almost creates the illusion that 
 the voice acting is low quality. Some of the low key music reminded me of Shadow Hearts. 7/10
 
  
  Value: You'll get the 50 hours you're promised by the back cover out of the game, although the 
 journey is an easily forgettable one. If you choose to do the huge optional dungeon, the Holy Beast 
 Shrine, you'll have at least 60 hours on the game.
  9/10
  
  Story: At first the story feels like a sci-fi movie where robots revolt against humans, but it 
 soon grows into a more full fledged and exciting story. Atsuma's stupidity and stubbornness may 
 get irritating at times, but it's fairly good story aside from that. It features the expected loss 
 of something important that we've all come to know and love in JRPGs, and does a good job of feeling 
 epic. The pretty movies help. 8/10
  
  Game play: As I said, it's like a cross between Shadow Hearts and Wild Arms, with a bit of generic 
 JRPG thrown in for good measure. The Shadow Hearts bit comes from having a lot of people to talk 
 to, and pretty entertaining dialog with the inhabitants of the towns and cities. The puzzles with 
 moving platforms, the 3-4 word descriptions for strangers you talk to, and linearity of the game 
 also resemble Shadow Hearts. The Wild Arms bit (I was reminded the most of 4) comes from the grappling 
 hook, which while not requiring any timing, makes it feel like the developers wanted to incorporate 
 some platforming elements in the game, a few of the puzzles, and the fact that when you enter a 
 building, your presented with a background and a person. Just like Wild Arms, you cannot explore 
 the insides of buildings or houses. The combat is also quite original. Both you and your enemies 
 have a 3x4 grid, and each attack has a certain range and power, forcing you to manage what skills 
 you should equip for a certain situation. The customization is great, too. After battles, you get 
 skill points, which can be spent on increasing your parameters or learning new skills, which forces 
 more management. You have your traditional elemental opposition in this game, for example, fire 
 and ice will do double damage to each other while a fire attack will do half damage against an 
 enemy with the fire attribute. Skill names can sound pretty cheesy, but each word has a specific 
 attribute, so you can tell what a skill does from reading the name. For example, Mega Flare Rush 
 would mean it's the 3rd level of the Flare Rush ability, and Flare indicates the Fire element, 
 while Rush indicates it is one of Atsuma's abilities. There are also some nice touches to battles, 
 such as when you are directly behind an ally on the grid and both of you are hit by an enemy attack, 
 the one behind will take half damage. If there are three people, the third person will take 0 damage. 
 This forces you to think during the harder battles. Also, there is an auto attack button and you 
 can actually fast forward battles by holding the Y button. The fast forward option is wonderful 
 for times when you don't want to watch animations over and over, or just don't want slow paced 
 battles. On top of all of this, there's a Pokemon like golem system, so there are hundreds of golems 
 to collect, all of which can be used on either Xbox Live or during regular battles. There's also 
 a casino that offers Roulette, Slots, and Bingo. This is great for getting money when you don't 
 want to fight.
  9/10
  
  Enchanted Arms is a terrible underrated and overlooked title, and I recommend you pick it up if 
 you like JRPGs, or are looking for one to start with. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kurt12343
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 25, 2007 2:13 pm PT
Review:  Considering the X-box 360's very small amount of RPGs; if you like RPGs, and you own an X-box 360, 
 then you should get this game. Story: The story in Enchanted Arms isn't bad, but for some reason, 
 it doesn't grow on you like other RPGs. The story was a good concept, and the characters had great 
 dialogue, but you don't really feel connected with the characters like you do with many other RPGs.
 
  
  Gameplay: I personally loved the gameplay. The fighting system was so different from other games 
 it was like a breath of fresh air. The grid system is made similar to a chess game, where you can 
 only move your characters a certain distance and your attacks will reach the enemy based on where 
 you are on the grid. The gameplay is what makes this a solid game.
  
  Graphics: The graphics were quite average, but the detail of your surroundings can be very nice. 
 The graphics didn't really need to be a huge part of this game, so I think they are done well enough 
 that it doesn't affect the gameplay.
  
  Conclusion: To sum it up, Enchanted Arms definitely is worth playing. If your expecting a terrible 
 story, then don't worry. The story is fine and the ending, (which many people say isn't very good) 
 I thought was actually pretty well done. If your looking for a new step in RPG gameplay, you will 
 love this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jkthomps97
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 21, 2007 12:51 pm PT
Review:  This game has me in it's grip at the moment, and all I can say is I'm glad my kids don't mind watching 
 me play it. If you like Altus games on the PS2 like Disgaea, then this is the closest you are going 
 to come to it on a next-gen system. You can collect 100 or so different golems to fight alongside 
 you, and you have to choose a subset of them to be in your party at any given time, and an even 
 smaller subset to be in the active battle party. Golems who are in the reserve but not used still 
 level up, so it is tempting to bring along some weaklings and leave them on the bench just to see 
 if they eventually become useful. Every time a battle ends, you get money (which can be used to 
 buy skill points) , items (which can be sold to get money) , experience (which makes humans and golems 
 stronger automatically) and skill points (which allow you to make both humans and golems stronger) . 
 As you can imagine, that can get addicting. Definitely worth buying if you like turn-based RPG 
 games. You can get it at Gamestop for $27, and then sell it on eBay later for about $17. That's 
 ten bucks for 40+ hours, which is a great deal any way you slice it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lebbin
Rating: 6.9
Date: Aug 13, 2007 4:11 pm PT
Review:  It's slow. The fighting is slow, the story is slow, and nothing in it stands out. But it's fun. 
 I'll start with the story. It is kinda dumb, and by-the-numbers, and some REALLY annoying characters 
 (you'll know who I mean when you meet them) , but it is super cool. The cut scenes are anime-like 
 and thry have their moments. The fighting mixes traditional RPG fighting with stragedy, which looks 
 cool on paper, but isn't as fun as nomal RPG battling. The problem is that you don't really know 
 where to go which stinks. The save system is perfect, though. The graphics are great. They aren't 
 super good, but the monsters look extrordanary. The sound is so-so, and the value is standered 
 for an RPG. Overall, but this if you really like RPG's, otherwise rent if it interests you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lightfellower
Rating: 6.9
Date: Aug 10, 2007 2:31 am PT
Review:  In life, being the first in anything is never a simple matter. The first child in a family often 
 enjoys undivided attention, only to become the subject of harsh expectations when the second and 
 third come along. Bragging rights are reserved for the lucky people who got their hands on the 
 latest technological gizmos, but the glitches and the imperfections associated are hardly enviable. 
 Enchanted Arms shares similar worries. Being the first JRPG for the Xbox 360 may form the core 
 of its marketing strategy, but it's likely to be its greatest pitfall as well. The expectations 
 are simply not fulfilled.
  
  The attempt is applaudable, though. Enchanted Arms shrinks many aspects of the genre which makes 
 it so likeable to some but irksome to others in a simple 40-hour affair. The main character is 
 Atsuma, the main character of the game with a penchant for stupidity, or rather, the poster child 
 for any JRPGs. Thrown into the fray are a feisty princess, a loud-mouth hunter, a serve-my-master-at-all-cost 
 warrior, and the package is complete. Even Makoto, an 'interesting' character with a rather different 
 sexual orientation hardly assuage the feeling that we've perhaps seen it all somewhere and better. 
 The result is more like a tutorial and an appetiser to what can be expected of next-gen RPGs, and 
 not what it packages itself to be.
  
  What particularly stood out is the battle system, which quite arguably is the sole saving grace 
 for the mediocrity. Backed by the familiar random encounters, battles are presented in a chess-like 
 platform, where characters can move around and use attacks with a fixed target area. What is pity 
 is that it lacks much depth, as they are often about how to deal the greatest damage in the fastest 
 manner. But then again, this makes up for easy and fast-paced battles which can be both enjoyable 
 and addictive for the lazy-minded. That said, the camera angle needs better polishing too- another 
 pity, considering the often beautiful and varied avatars of characters and golems on the battle 
 field.
  
  Think of golems as machines, or just comrades in arms when you decide to use them in battles. Enchanted 
 Arms replicated another aspect off games such as Pokemon- the 'gotta catch 'em all' aspect, that 
 is. Golems can be recruited throughout the game, and for players who are interested in online-battling, 
 collecting the best and training them can add much logetivity to the game. The details paid in 
 designing the golems, especially when there are so many of them, are amazing. If only such details 
 are mirrored onto other aspects of the game.
  
  Graphics, for one, is caught in the limbo of what is enchanting and what is sheer laziness. The 
 portraits of characters are well-crafted, but the same can't be told about the environments. Exploring 
 the worlds in Enchanted Arms is like driving 10 hours on a road to nothingness, minus the benefits 
 of the car stereo and the auto-stick. The dullness of which is matched only by the lack of activity. 
 There is no real incentives to interact with the NPCs, except to get the story going, a real big 
 chore when there are so many back-tracking to mitigate your efforts.
  
  Silence is probably something players will have to get used to when playing Enchanted Arms. On 
 (too) many occassions, sound is mysteriously missing, reminding one of the extreme boredom that 
 comes with exploring the indifferent environments. The Japanese voice acting (comes with the Asian 
 version) is generally well done, evidenced by the convincing GAHHHHH! and the WAHHHH! Atsuma erupts 
 whenever he got excited by the most un-interesting of matters. Enchanted Arms isn't bad, it just 
 isn't good enough. As it clings onto the accolade of being the first JRPG on the shooters-proud 
 Xbox 360, it may have silently carved the path for more of such games to come. While expecting 
 more of the game is ill-advised, the game has done a decent job in portraying what next-gen RPGs 
 is about without making a big hoo-ha over it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pastey_2k7
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 9, 2007 12:01 pm PT
Review:  i think this game is relly good but hard because some of the bosses takes you ages and the and 
 god orbs but it grows on u there is loads of stuff to do on the game like search for god orbs and 
 search for golems which gets on your nevese the battle type in the game is oright but some times 
 it is hard to get a good view and the casino is oright because if you get enogh chips you can covert 
 it in to money and get a prize like a golem or items there are four types of games roulete bingo 
 golem battles and slot machines 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Airidis
Rating: 4
Date: Aug 8, 2007 2:31 pm PT
Review:  enchanted arms has splendid graphics and all just they REALLY NEED A BETTER VOICE ACTING PPL i 
 mean come on the main guy (who i think should be a bad guy because he looks that way) anyway his 
 voice is... squeakish..... only person who i thought fit well with the character is eh whats his 
 face that gets taken away by the Ice golem chick but ya...
  
  combat.... lack luster..... dull after while nuff said
  
  the map and all this what not, LOOKS 
 GREAT but to big and u ended up wasting ur time OMG THE EVIL DARK BADDY IS IN SUCH AND SUCH TOWN.....*go 
 to such and such town after long #&amp;^!^&amp;# walk* o hes not here lets go back to where we 
 started and think on where he might be.....
  
  this is just one of those games that from my viewpoin deserves.. a low rating from me srry all 
 u tht like it i just dont 
::::::

::::::
UserName: judas-savior
Rating: 8.2
Date: Aug 8, 2007 11:09 am PT
Review:  I was a bit sceptical playing the first JRPG for the 360 being an unknown franchise and with not 
 the highest review but I was desperate for some RPG action so bought it all the same and I am happy 
 I did. For the most part I was quite surprised at its funny dialogues which I quite enjoyed aswell 
 as the character choices. The graphics and sound are quite decent or so I thought and don't buy 
 into the complaints that some did as I grew up with no voice acting and MIDI soundtracks so I thought 
 it was quite decent and funny
  
  The gameplay was quite good although I got sick of backtracking sometimes and a few things were 
 quite tedious but the battle system was quite good and the story was enough to keep me hooked and 
 I quite enjoyed it as an overall experience looking back.
  
  Value wise its a standard JRPG with a innovative battle system and some funny and entertaining 
 characters with a decent story to go with them. If your looking for an RPG to play on the 360 before 
 this fall this one would be one I would recommend. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kylepadd
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 16, 2007 10:27 pm PT
Review:  A good but not great RPG. I would agree with Gamespot in saying that as soon as you are done you 
 will not likely ever pick it up again. The stroyline is interesting and the characters unique with 
 a lot of comical situations at times. The graphics are amazing for special moves during some of 
 the battles and for most of the game. The battle system is a unique gridded system that reminds 
 me of moving chess pieces around. However, the battles are very, very repetetive! I was glued to 
 this game from start to finish but will not play it again. I had no desire to battle with my Golems 
 over XBLA. The sequence of end bosses is amazingly hard. Overall a decent game with some strengths 
 but more weaknesses. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Coxxxy83
Rating: 3.4
Date: Jul 14, 2007 2:55 pm PT
Review:  The only good point of this game is the golems semi resemble the idea behind Suikoden. You can 
 kind of build your own army. The battle sequences can all be taken care of by simply pressing RT, 
 A, then Y to speed up this bundle of boredom. The dialog is played out and every voice in the game 
 is highly annoying. Put on some music when you play this game. Never once lost a battle. The attack 
 system is good but the drawn out battles and movement kill a good thing. I would say that they 
 were trying to replicate game play similar to Final Fantasy X, but everything they did was tired 
 and played out. In summary i recommend never playing this game. You are not missing out on anything 
 except gamerscore points. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: npili
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jul 12, 2007 2:38 pm PT
Review:  Warning: You should stop reading if you are not a fan of Japanese RPGs. This game has no potential 
 of converting you to liking the genre, either.
  
  Well, I bought this game recently because I've been starving to play a new Japanese RPG. Since 
 the 360 is the only console I bother to turn on anymore, my choices were limited. After checking 
 out reviews of Enchanted Arms, I was mildly interested in it. The only big negative I kept on hearing 
 was the really terrible English voice acting. Personally, voice acting usually doesn't make or 
 break a game for me so I decided to take the plunge and buy the game. I'm quite pleased that I 
 did!
  
  The game's storyline, action, and characters are all reminiscent of past Japanese RPGs. Since I 
 heard the English voice acting was horrible, I was pleased to discover that I could enable the 
 Japanese voice acting with English subtitles instead. The game itself is not terribly original, 
 but there really isn't anything wrong with it. If you loved the Final Fantasy games with random 
 battle encounters, then you will probably like this game as well. There is also a bunch of mini 
 games and other side quests throughout. All in all, I really like most of the elements to the game, 
 but I'm not in love with any of them. It will definitely help as a solid, temporary diversion if 
 you are a Japanese RPG fan that can't wait for Blue Dragon and Lost Odyssey to hit the shelves! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: davidrulez
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 11, 2007 5:30 pm PT
Review:  this is fun alot of times but the battle style is mediocre it just geos on and on its not fun after 
 60 hrs of play especially that gay guy it just not right i mean the gay guy just ruins it all and 
 sometimes the story just deosnt make sense i just dont like it that much if you dont then thats 
 your fault but didnt like that much so i really dont recomend it maybe to older people who like 
 gay guys no just kidding i would recommend to people who like fighting to be coreagrified fighting 
 and limited movement 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RadiantJezzy
Rating: 3.9
Date: Jul 13, 2007 8:08 am PT
Review:  This is by far one of the worst RPG's I have played.
  
  Graphics - unimpressive especially considering that there are not that many places to go in Enchanted 
 Arms. You would think that with just a few places to go that they would have worked harder on the 
 graphics.
  
  Sound - Let me put it this way.... there were points in the game where I had to turn the sound off 
 because the soundtracks were so bad.... the sound was totally giving me a headache. Also, they totally 
 riped off some FF tracks. I am going to include dialog in this section mostly because the dialog 
 was so bad that is needs to be commented on. This is pretty much how it went:
  
  Atsuma: Hey Rigar, did you.......
  Rigar: Well....
  Atsuma: Never-mind
  
  It was like the 
 developers sat around saying:
  
  Dev 1: Hey you know what would be really cool! Lets NOT make a beefy plot... but to make it SEEM 
 beefy we will add in a lot of nonsensical dialogue that has no point what so ever that provides 
 no insight to anything. Dev 2: GASP, you are a genius! 
  
  Dev 1 &amp; Dev 2: [obnoxious Beavis and Butthead-esq laughter ensues] hehe hehe hehe hehe we rule! 
 
  
  Also, most of the voice acting was just plain bad. Gameplay - ridiculously easy and uninspired. 
 The gameplay got old very fast and I often found myself pressing the auto button which basically 
 played the game for you in battles. How fun does that sound? There is also not a lot of incentive 
 to aggressively level since you can basically buy the points to up your stats. Of course you need 
 money for that..... oh wait! That's right.... money is super easy to get too! But the worst part 
 of the game was that there was not anything to explore or do. In each city there are a few doors 
 marked on the map in yellow. At first I was like nifty! shops and side-quests! but oh no, all you 
 would get were tiny cut scenes of the people inside that had nothing to do with ANYTHING. Buy the 
 time I got to the last city and searched for those yellow dots I was thinking Please, something, 
 anything!! Just one little shop, one little side quest, something to break the monotony of this 
 whole game! The best part of RPGs for me are the sidequest and finding those obscure items and 
 going to different shops to see what they have that is different from the other shops (hey, I like 
 to shop! Give a girl a break! ) Well, you will not find any of that here which adds to the linear 
 nature of the game. Let me put it to you this way: point A say hello to point B , now play nice 
 you two. Value - or should I say: Value? I am %93 through the game and as soon as I finish this 
 game I am going to gamestop and selling it which is something I never do. I love to play games 
 over and over. This one was so painful I don't even want it in the house.
  
  Overall I would say do not waste your money. This was a pathetic attempt to develop an RPG and 
 considering it is next gen it was a huge disappointment.
  
  [disclaimer whispers soft and fast in the background] This review is not responsible for the misconstru-iation 
 of said reviewers sarcasm. Happy Gaming! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maxhell04
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 4, 2007 8:25 pm PT
Review:  I think this is a great game. It is very under appreciated and scored way to low on the reviews. 
 The battles are very innovative and make it deserve a much higher score. It has tones of characters 
 and golems to play and lets you customize your party countless ways. You can play the entire game 
 without using any of the main characters and just golems or mix it up any way you want.
  
  If you liked the Final Fantasy series especially Tactics, you'll love this game. The ability to 
 position your character in battles adds great strategy to battles. There are also tons of side 
 quests to complete and a great Casino mini game to play with that is very lucrative and holds many 
 good items.
  
  Overall it is an awesome game especially considering how few good RPGs the XBOX 360 has to offer. 
 In my opinion it is the best RPG for the system thus far. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fer355
Rating: 5
Date: Jul 4, 2007 3:00 am PT
Review:  too much walking around with no outcome, boring in game fight scenes. not too great overall. now 
 i am just filling space up. lalalalalalalalalalalalala blablablablablablabla,  
  
 a a a aa aa a a a aa a a a a a aa a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a 
 a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a 
::::::

::::::
UserName: steadf4st
Rating: 3.2
Date: Jun 27, 2007 8:01 pm PT
Review:  This game is way to long and its so repetetive its a complete waste of time and at some parts its 
 just boring. All you do in the game is press A and thats y the only time i play it is when im trying 
 to sleep ive fallen asleep playing it. SAVE YOUR MONEY!!!!! You can cheat at one place and if you 
 dont then the rest of the game is pretty much impossible and if you dont cheat then its easy. i 
 hate the game play you walk around slowly and then there are simple puzzles that you have to solve 
 and some are just pointless. The turnbased combat is horrible it takes no skill whatsoever. I think 
 the only good point was the graphics, they were pretty good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: miiiguel
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 21, 2007 4:00 am PT
Review:  Ever since 360 was released, and even before it turned 2 months old, haters jumped the it's only 
 a no-brain shooters console wagon.
  They were wrong, oh so wrong! 360 has the most eccletic library since PS2.
  But this is Enchanted 
 Arm we aer talking about, so here it goes:
  It's a true jRPG, and I mean a pure one. The focus goes to the plot and mainly the characters, 
 and it all works wonderfully.
  In its wondering sections it is aesthetically very similar to the latest PSU (also for the beautifull 
 machine) , but the combat system is turn based. I had some doubts wether I'd like it or not, but 
 it soon vanished. It does work, and it's very, very funny. it remind me of Magic The Gathering. 
 It's very cool to plan strategies for the combats. I also read in some sites complains about the 
 random battles, I, allthough also not really fond of random fights, admit it kinda suits the game, 
 as it gives some urgency to the quests, I mean, if you miss the directions to reach some place 
 (gotta listen to the dialogues, or as in my case, read the subtitles - I like the Japanese dialogue 
 better) , you'll have to fight more. This was a good decision, better to have the urgency feeling 
 by having to fight rather than the usual-boring time limit.
  Graphics and sound wise: isn't anything outstanding (allthough it's not From Software fault, it's 
 the awesomeness of 360's library, wich placed the bar oh so high) , but they're good looking, and 
 the monsters (Golems) are really, really cool!.
  I'm quite proud to have this title in my collection. Most of all it works as a whole, and it's 
 a great piece of work from start to finish.
  Have a great journey! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bananawaxer
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jun 11, 2007 6:57 pm PT
Review:  Excluding Final Fantasy XI, Enchanted Arms is the first real Japanese role-playing game available 
 on Xbox 360. As such, this FromSoftware game is the only one with good old classic role-playing, 
 whether for moving up levels, managing equipment or saving the universe. Enchanted Arms brings 
 it all together. From a graphical standpoint, the cinematics (or synthetic images) are spectacular. 
 Enchanted Arms also features superbly animated, action-packed environments, as well as empty scenes 
 without soul. The special effets arent perfect, but the dynamic staging of combat scenes taking 
 place in stylized environments somewhat look like Fire Emblem. Japanese and English versions are 
 available, but considering Atsumas rebel nature, I suggest you think it over carefully before 
 choosing the Japanese one, because the voice of a rebelling Japanese it not a pretty thing. The 
 story is very straightforward and rather classic: a few tragic scenes, a sorceress with incredible 
 powers and stereotyped characters. Nonetheless, Atsumas past linked to the story breathes a bit 
 of life into a game that could otherwise be monotonous. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigdaddy9
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 9, 2007 3:19 pm PT
Review:  This game was fun. It kept me busy for quite a while. I would have kept playing it but i had to 
 give it back to my friend because i borrowed it. The story line was pretty cool. It was kind of 
 wierd but I mean it was very entertaining! The graphics were awesome, it looked so real. The sound 
 wasa awesome, they had alot of really cool sounds. This game is not really worth much because it 
 just is not a game you would spend fifty or sixty bucks on like alot of other games! So I like 
 this game alot, but it is not for everyone so please rent it first! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spikrath
Rating: 7.2
Date: Jun 6, 2007 9:30 am PT
Review:  The Bad: Okay, I'm all for RPG's, and next-gen RPG's sound so much better, but this style has been 
 so over-done and carbon-copied, it's insane. Enchanted Arms is no exception. From the cliche 'dark 
 gods of old are resurrected and you're the only one who can stop it' plot line to the main female 
 character being the most horrible cook alive... it's been done before... everywhere. In fact, the 
 only original thing about this game was the gay guy who just happened to die in the first phase 
 of the game. It was refreshing to see something original for once (someone stop me if they've ever 
 seen a gay 'main' character in a video game.. didn't think so) , and hey, he never did hit on your 
 character, so it's all cool. The worst thing that I have noticed though was the fact that the game's 
 protagonist was a f@%^in' idiot! For some reason, the game developers decided that it would be 
 good to have a tutorial on how to use the A button every single time you come up to some new kind 
 of button or something like that. You use the A button for everything. It is the action button. 
 I think it woulda been a little simpler for them to just say in the beginning the A button is the 
 action button, and is used for everything, just go up to something, and press A, something will 
 happen instead of explaining it again and again and again and again... I lost count they explain 
 how to use the A button so many times. I may sound like I'm ranting here (which I kinda am) , but 
 by about the third phase when they're still explaining how to use the A button, you'll be saying 
 Okay, okay, I get it, go up to it and press the little green thing, I GET IT ALREADY! And then 
 we get to the characters. First off, they are all so cheesey it's embarassing, the voice-acting 
 is horrible, and only... two out of the dozens of individual characters even knows how to speak 
 with the right tone for the right situation. And lastly, the random encounters... as you know, 
 Murphy's Law dominates all video games, and in Enchanted Arms, like in the Pokemon, Final Fantasy, 
 and Dragon Quest series, when you want an enemy to show up, they won't, and then when you're low 
 on health and running for a heal/save point, you can't take three steps without running into a 
 baddie. And of course, now that you're low on health, they will ALL be large groups of the strongest 
 enemies around.... that's Murphy for ya.
  
  Now, finally, for the good: The power behind it all... ooh, it makes my spine tingle. The main 
 bad guys, called 'Devil Golems' were apparently considered gods at one point, and rightfully so. 
 The first Cinematic sequence with the first Devil Golem, the Queen of Ice, will show you just how 
 powerful they are. It's intense... entire cities annihilated, and with such brutality, it's awesome. 
 And fo course, the brains behind all of these Devil Golems, the only thing that can destroy them, 
 the one that they call 'Lord'.... muahahaha! I shall say no more. See for yourself. And, to tie 
 in with all of this, the moveset of your own characters is quite impressive, as well as the look 
 of some of these golems you can command. First time you see a Lord Onyx, Marlin Glaive, or Atsuma 
 use certain Ex skills, you will fall in love. Of course, some of this might only be appealing to 
 those of you who thought Mewtwo was the biggest badass of the 90's, but hey.
  
  Gameplay: repetitive, too much meaningless dialogue, but battle scenes can be very fun, just from 
 your sheer ability to wipe out pretty much everybody in one shot. I have heard that many people 
 saw the boss battle as very tough, but honestly, I blew through all of the boss battles. I think 
 it's mainly because I made sure that I was strong enough to take out pretty much any random encounter 
 group in 1-2 turns. Do the same, and don't use bad golems, and you'll be fine. I suggest using 
 the Mage Guardian, Lord Onyx, and APO golems and/or a healer golem of your choice. by level 20, 
 they are beasts, yes, even the squishy little APO (hey, he can hit every enemy at the same time 
 for 100+ damage each, tell me that doesn't help) .
  
  Graphics: slightly sub-standard for next-gen gaming. Cinematic sequences are well-done, but I mean 
 come on, Blizzard has been doing better than that for over fifteen years, pull yourself together 
 and catch up.
  
  Sound: blah. see above comments on the characters. Though the sound-effects and the background 
 music are well-done, and it does add a considerable amount to the cinematic sequences.
  
  Alternatives: Castlevania: Curse of Darkness (Xbox/PS2) is a very nice alternative to this game, 
 and I found it much more challenging and exciting. Same with Dragon Warrior 4 (Ninetendo/PC through 
 internet gaming sites) , Shining Force (Sega Genesis/PC through internet gaming sites) , and Monster 
 Hunter (PS2/PSP) . All of which are very good games, and can hold their own in the RPG world. I 
 would recommend these other games over Enchanted Arms in an instant, but if you have a 360 and 
 crave achievements (as I do) go to your local blockbuster and have at it, but don't say I didn't 
 warn you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: neofied
Rating: 8.1
Date: May 28, 2007 10:31 pm PT
Review:  I tend to be very picky about my RPGs, but I was pleasantly surprised by Enchanted Arms. I heard 
 so many bad things about the voice acting, gameplay, story and battle system, that it's taken me 
 almost a year to finally give it a try. I can see where many people would be critical of those 
 things in the game, if they only played it for about an hour. The first hour is a terrible representation 
 of the game, super cheese characters that you just have to laugh at. After the story finally gets 
 started, better characters are introduced, who have decent voice acting and the story arc gets 
 a lot more substantial. The voice acting isn't that bad, see any Dynasty Warriors game for a reference 
 of bad voice acting.
  
  I find the combat system very fun and seems like the designers picked their favorite parts from 
 other RPGs' combat systems. The game uses random battles like any Final Fantasy game before 10 
 (the last good one in my opinion) . You have the standard enemies on one side, heroes on the other, 
 but with a little bit more. Each side is made up of a grid that you can move your characters around 
 on, much like the old Shining Force and Final Fantasy Tactics games. In addition to your hero characters, 
 you collect Golems which are Robot monsters that you control. You pick different Golems to be in 
 you party depending on your situation. For example: In an Ice area its a good idea to have a Fire 
 Golem and a Water Golem that can heal. The Fire Golem does lots of damage to the Ice enemies, but 
 takes more damage from them. The water Golem takes very little damage and is free to keep healing 
 your party.
  
  Overall the game is quite fun and meets all the qualifications of a Japanese RPG. I think it's 
 worth a play through, and why not it's a bargain bin game now anyway. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mittsman890
Rating: 6.9
Date: May 15, 2007 5:41 pm PT
Review:  If you're looking to buy this game, you should first consider some options. If you own a 360, there 
 are really no other true rpg games at this time. Coming out soon are games such as Blue Dragon, 
 Eternal Sonata, and Lost Odyssey. If you simply cannot wait for an rpg on the 360 until then, Enchanted 
 Arms fits in nicely to your 360 library.
  
  I don't know how much I can stress that this game is NOT for everyone. If you enjoy the tradional 
 rpg, this will be your cup of tea. Enchanted Arms will not leave you feeling as if you've played 
 something entirely orginal, but it has its own ways of satisfying you. The combat system, as explained 
 in many other reviews, and in the Gamespot review, is slightly different ( I didn't say good) from 
 other rpgs. You will fight more battles than you can even imagine in this game, and as much as 
 I could go into telling you how the battle system works (your characters are on a grid and fight 
 using much simpler chess-like moves) , it's just not worth it because if you're most likely to just 
 start the battle and select auto and let your characters fight automatically as you hold down the 
 Y ( fast forward ) button and wait for the battle to end. If this game had not included the fast 
 forward button, this game probably would have been given a noticeably lower score due to the frequency 
 of battles and how long a battle would take fighting on your own. Though the battle concept sounds 
 promising, it's really no different than most other new age rpgs. Most rpgs nowadays are taking 
 turn-based fighting and mixing it up a bit to keep you less bored as you level up, making this 
 game less revolutionary.
  
  The story of Atusma, an enchanter from Yokohoma University, is probably one of the most straight-forward 
 storylines you will ever encounter. There are hardly any twists to speak of. By the time you get 
 to the end of the game you may be asking yourself Did it really end just as I expected? To not 
 be too hard on Enchanted Arms story, I would like to point out that it is not a bad storyline, 
 it's just nothing original.
  
  As a sidequest, you can collect over 100 golems (pretty much just allies that are not human) to 
 use as you fight through the story or online. Though this is a nice little concept in theory, it 
 gets boring fast and you will probably lose interest in finding and even synthesising them since 
 many of them are weaker than your human characters.
  
  Though some of what I've written sounds bad, Enchanted Arms is not a bad game. There are some quirks 
 here and there, but for the 360, there are not many games that can top the 40 or so hours it takes 
 to complete this game. That is definitely a plus, but you are almost guarenteed to never play through 
 it again based on the high encounter rate and linear storyline. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: exocel
Rating: 7.1
Date: May 11, 2007 12:50 am PT
Review:  i guess right off the bat this reeks of a mediocre attempt at imitating the final fnatasy series 
 of roleplaying games. and it fails, not tremendously, but it still remains as nothing more than 
 a poor mans final fantasy.
  Speaking frankly right off the bat ,rather than waiting for a gamers view at the end like i normally 
 do, there were a few things that really bugged em with this, one was a horrifying stereotypical 
 example of a homosexual man, covered in love hearts, speaking like big gay al and making various 
 sexual innuendo comments when it was his turn to speak, now i know gay guys aint like that but 
 hell im 19 and i know kids a lot younger than me will be playing this game, and this is not a good 
 example to set for kids when it comes to negative stereotypes, this is just one of the things that 
 shows the lack of proffesionality that comes off when you play this game.
  the unique combat system has been done before many times and in a much better fashion, the characters 
 ,whilst looking turly current gen still look cheap, like one of the basic models you get in a 3d 
 design program has just been tweaked to fit the games asthetic.
  you play a man with a hidden power in a world were secret items of power are being awakened by 
 a mysterious evil once more in an attempt to revive a 1000 year old war.
  heard this before?, if your an rpg fan this storyline has been done to death, its now a cliche' 
 only used by 3rd party games looking for a loose plot to tie there game engine around i found this 
 dissapointing to say the least.
  the graphics for the locations and sound effects are actually very pretty for the consoel gen and 
 the sound was quite good, though not memorable.
  value wise i found myself wanting to put it down after i realise dthat the game save stated i was 
 6 minutes into the game and 8% of it was through allready, i only finished this, being honest, 
 for the gamerpoints which , like king kong, you get for merely completeing the game.
  The actual gmaeplay mechanics are poor to say the least for no reason at all you lose vitality 
 points per battle and when they run out, adn with the rate of random battles they do. fast. you 
 enter a batle with 1hp and no mp, though if you lose you restart the exact same battle, only with 
 the same stats and the same outcome, and you actually have to raise all the parametres for you 
 character yourself adn they get incredibly expensive fast so you need to save up points for around 
 3 levels by level 15 to rasie any stats once, which means you can quickly go from walk in the park 
 battles to hard as hell game over loops.
  all in all this feels like an unfinished 2nd party game, it tries hard but loses all cohesion with 
 a poor stat and battle system, generic gameplay and appauling chracter designs and cliche'd story, 
 since its the only 360 rpg right now that saves it a little purely since, if your a 360 owner that 
 needs to play an rpg you have no other choice than this, which raises ther value slightly, though 
 it still means its just a 'good' game ,nothing memorable , rent it or just skip over it comepletely. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nurbachsch
Rating: 6.5
Date: May 8, 2007 7:09 am PT
Review:  Picking up ENCHANTED ARMS was not so much choice as coincidence. Or rather circumstance, as it 
 were. Namely that yours truly had finished the first play-through of GEARS OF WAR and was looking 
 for something other to play than DEAD OR ALIVE, PERFECT DARK ZERO or NINETY-NINE NIGHTS. Circumstance 
 or coincidence willed a copy of ENCHANTED ARMS to fly onto my desk.
  
  Popping the game into the system and going through the first, dialogue-heavy hour of the game will 
 make one of its strengths but also quirks obvious: charming characters. The protagonist, a strapping 
 lad by the name of Atsuma - bold, loud, good-natured, a bit obnoxious and quite thick by all accounts 
 - and his companions Toya - a dark, highly intelligent and somber young man - and Makoto - the 
 yaoi counterpart to Toya - are Enchanters at the Yokohama City Enchant University, learning what 
 little remnants are left of the art of enchanting after the long and quite gruelling Golem Wars. 
 Not wanting to go into any more story details, because they are after all one of the main joys 
 the game has to offer, Atsuma will be separated from his friends and while learning about his own 
 secrets and those of the Golem Wars struggle to find and save them. Now, these characters have 
 been given some quite amusing dialogue and it's generally entertaining following their discourse 
 about matters. In the run of the game there will be other, also very enjoyable characters, all 
 adding to the flair of the game. On the downside these same character can become tedious, when 
 they act in their assumed stereotypical ways.
  Something that old school gamers will enjoy, though: dialogue is played out reminiscent of 2D rpgs 
 of yore. The 3D models of the interacting characters will pop up in front of a static background, 
 filling half of the screen with their dialogue being displayed beneath them. A nostalgic effect, 
 especially when you see these 3D models switch from pre-set stance to pre-set stance to display 
 different moods, similar to the various renditions of 2D characters of older rpgs.
  
  Stereotypical is also an appropriate attribute to describe the game mechanics. While all things 
 are well implemented, we have seen them many, many times before. But then again, it is quite hard 
 to come up with a new way to handle rpg mechanics that is not detrimental game experience.
  There three different points around which everything focuses: skills, attributes and golems.
 
  
  Each character comes with a short list of self-explanatory attributes like 'direct' (for direct 
 attack power) , 'agility' or 'hit points'. When fighting you will earn skill points which you can 
 use to buff up these attributes and make your characters stronger, quicker, better healers and 
 so and so forth. Some of these attributes ('direct', 'ranged' and 'support') have direct influence 
 on your skills. Skills are what you use in fights. Each character can equip up to five active skills 
 and five support skills. Skills are learned by spending skill points. Support skills are always 
 active and enhance your character by lending status abnormality immunity, additional power or range 
 and so on. The other set of five skills can be activated by way of enchant point expenditure. Depending 
 on the power of the skill there is a fixed amount of ep to be paid, similar to magic or mana points 
 of other games, which will allow the character to use that skill in a fight. These can be various 
 forms of attacks or healing or support skills as well and each skill has certain parameters: power, 
 style, element and range. Skills can be direct or ranged and their power can vary according to 
 the character's respective attribute of the same name. Range is important in battle, as you will 
 battle on a mirrored 3 by 4 grid, one half for your party to move in, the other half for the opponents 
 party. Last but not least there is the possibility to find Golem (magical robots) cores and core 
 components, with which you can synthesize a diverse host of golems to aid your party in battle. 
 This quick overview of the basic game mechanics should make two things clear:
  1. Everything has been thought of and fits in nicely with the other parts of the game.
  2. It's 
 all been done before.
  
  Thankfully the game mechanics are only uninspired and not bad. They work fluently and without any 
 fuss and make the game experience flow nicely. The graphics on the other hand are sometimes quite 
 outstanding. Beside the very well animated main characters you will find your enemies and golems 
 to be of much detail and interesting design. Even better are some of the background graphics. Especially 
 later in the game - Kyoto City and surrounding areas are my favorite - there will be quite magnificent 
 vistas, not too rich in minuscule detail, but convincing in scope and atmosphere. Walking up towards 
 a waterfall, surrounded by leaves of autumn and mossy rocks or searching through the ruins of a 
 mountain path next to the ocean will leave an impression.
  And the soundtrack, while mostly not remarkable, does at least have the courtesy of not being distracting 
 or annoying.
  
  Not as impressive is the challenge the game itself has to offer. It is, in plain words, way too 
 simple. Seasoned rpg gamers will miss the opportunity to go looking for hard to find secrets. The 
 few side quests and secrets ENCHANTED ARMS has to offer are actually harder to miss than to find. 
 Rpg-virgins on the other hand might find the extremely gentle and soft approach the game has at 
 popping their gaming-cherries satisfying.
  
  So, what is ENCHANTED ARMS then? In my opinion a game designed to be out on the shelves in time 
 with the release of the hardware and thus probably not complex and challenging enough, but with 
 very decent production values and genuinely entertaining moments in its plot. Not first choice 
 but also not too be easily dismissed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigr2k5
Rating: 3.3
Date: Apr 30, 2007 4:05 pm PT
Review:  To begin, I sat and watched the beginging cutscene, excited of what i was about to play as i must 
 say it was a pretty interesting cutscene! After the scene, i was then directly forced into battle 
 in which i had absolutly no clue how to fight. Being a someone who has played many rpg series games 
 such as Final Fantasys 1-3 and 7-12, tales of symphonia and abyss, Suikoden 3 and 5, star ocean 
 till the end of time, and several other popular RPG series, i was actually lost when it came to 
 battle time. In this game, you are put on a field, each side as squares in which the characters 
 can move. One your side, you may only move within your squares and each character moves differently 
 thus some characters may be able to move more squares then others. once you movied you could give 
 a command but only could attack if your characters could reach the enemy. Since this whole battle 
 system confused me i was forced to use the auto battle sequence which tends to take all the fun 
 out of the battle but was the only way i could get past the fight. After which another cutscene 
 that involved some students in a class and was introduced to the main characters. Now, normally 
 I tend to not always agree with some of the reviews ive read about horrid voice acting, like in 
 Phantasy Star Universe, i didnt think the voice acting was so bad, but reviews stated otherwise. 
 However, in this game from the very begining i was shocked, it seemed so poorly put together. The 
 dialog to be honest was annoying. The main character seemed to be unliked by most of the people 
 in the school, and his close friend was highly worshiped by meny. There was also one character 
 in which for the first time in a game ive ever played, was openly homosexual, so much so that it 
 could deffinatly insult a homosexual who played it. After playing for almost an hour, between the 
 poor dialog and fustrating battle sequence, I could not take the game any longer and took it out. 
 I was highly disapointed in the games gameplya and story and before going to buy this game, you 
 rent it and see what you think. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dreamtale666
Rating: 8.9
Date: Apr 21, 2007 3:14 pm PT
Review:  I read lots of reviews before deciding getting this game, many people rating it only a 6 or 7, 
 well im sorry but this is simply criminal you only have to look at the RPG market on the 360 and 
 there isnt alot to shout about. So any way i spotted this game in the 2 for &pound;40 so i thought 
 hell, why not, well i gotta say if your such a final fantasy fan as i am you may get taken aback 
 at first by what seems to be a chess style battle system and i was at first a little curious, but 
 oh my god it does grow on you and you may soon find the final fantasy elements creeping in, and 
 that can only mean good things. there are a whole array of fantastic characters, plenty of customizable 
 thigs and skills your players can learn, you can also synthesize golems, golems being mythecial 
 type creatures, much like aeons without all the fancy powers.
  
  Gameplay 9/10 - Even if your used to final fantasy you'll find this battle system grows on you, 
 its a chess style battle system where by you have to move your players around a grid to use certain 
 moves, each move has a set distance which you can use it at, and in turn this can be upgraded as 
 you progress, its different, but works to fantastic effect.
  
  Graphics 9/10 - Not the best but each character has a charm of theyre own and the golems are a 
 nice (and slightly cute) touch to the game. Scenery is beautiful and lively.
  
  Sound 9/10 - Looks like a final fantasy spin off.. and well.... sounds like one too, yup its got 
 that sound too it... which is... good :D
  
  Value 8/10 - Theres plenty of hours of gameplay to get through and plenty of beautiful scenes to 
 travel to and around, but much like final fantasy games, once complete... well yer its hard to go 
 for it again hehe.
  
  Tilt 9/10 - This is probably THE best RPG on the 360, it far supasses phantasy star, and if your 
 a fan of the final fantasy series and want a slight twist on the series then this is a must buy, 
 at least give it a rent.
  
  In short this is a fantastic game, both cute and fierce with a very brave but enjoyable battle 
 system, the graphics are good and the characters are all very different, the best way to describe 
 this is.... maybe pokemon meets digimon meets final fantasy.... yer i said it :D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: knuckles10001
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 13, 2007 1:36 am PT
Review:  Well i wanted to trade in some games (ps2) and swapped them for this game at first i was like i 
 dunno if i shoul; d get this hmm but i got it anyway because the man at the store said its abit 
 like final fantasy so i bought it.
  
  Then i went back home and played the game and i said to my self nice but why is there a gay person 
 in the game thats really random but i ignored it and played more and more of the game. The game 
 world is alot like FF its colourful and has different people to talk to, also the battle system 
 is just awesome, The graphics are preety awesome but not perfect.
  
  So if your thinking I wish there was a sort of FF game on the xbox 360 well this is the one you 
 could probs get it cheap for preowned or new i'm sure you will like this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ash2X
Rating: 8.6
Date: Apr 11, 2007 4:35 am PT
Review:  The Good:
  -Easy and interesting Fighting-System
  -Interesting Storyline
  -Funniest Dialoges since a looooong time
  -after a few hours the Voice-Acting is really awesome
 
  -you can speed up the fights
  -easy earned 1000GS-Points ;-)
  
  The Bad:
  -Graphics and Visuals are not thaaat great
  
  First off, I losve RPGs and play them since 12 
 years, and can&acute; t get egnough of them. The impressive about them is the fact that the Visuals 
 are pretty unimportant, I can&acute; t shake the feeling many people forgot that...
  
  The Gameplay:
  The Fighting-System is a combination of the usual RBS and a Tactics-System (like 
 in Arc the Lad, or Koudelka... but not that boring) .
  Trained RPG-Players know what to do after one or two Fights.
  The Rest of the Game is pretty 
 much like Final Fantasy or other RPGs.
  
  The Special about the Game are really funny Dialouges, and a the Storyline which stays interesting 
 until the end. I haven&acute; t had so much fun playing an RPG for years, I even finished it before 
 FFXII (I buyed EA later) , because it was just more fun to follow.
  After the first hours I couldn&acute; t lay it aside until I had beaten the Ice Queen.
  
  The 
 Graphics:
  Well, exept a few wow-effects at the one or the other point, it stays pretty uninterestiing... but 
 honestly: If you skip this game because of the Graphics because of the Graphics you&acute; re in 
 the wrong Genre, don&acute; t you think?
  
  The Sound:
  The Voice acting is pretty awesome after a few hours, the Soundtrack on the other side is nothing 
 I really noticed. Exept a few tracks, it plays in the Background and never gets on the nerves... it&acute; s 
 nothing special, but not bad. It was ok with me.
  
  So...:
  If you&acute; re a RPG-Fan you should definetly buy it. If you are a newbie you could easy get in 
 too, so IMO it&acute; s definetly worth a look. Plus it should be around 30Bucks by now and so you 
 couldn&acute; t do much wrong even if you don&acute; t like it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chesterchestnut
Rating: 4.7
Date: Apr 6, 2007 9:49 am PT
Review:  I'll keep this one brief. Don't bother with this game. You know something is wrong with the core 
 concept when:
  
  A) Your normal lack of interest in a games plot is replaced with hatred at having to click past 
 completely unimportant dialogue screens.
  
  B) You can revert to using automatic battles before your character levels up once.
  
  C) ... 
 ?
  
  Weak graphics, very linear, repetitive combat, uninteresting character development. I don't understand 
 the random battles in otherwise completely empty spaces. I don't understand how every battle is 
 the same grid. I don't understand how you release a game in 2006 that doesn't let you configure 
 characters looks/colors. Nor do I understand why the save feature has to ask for the harddrive 
 every time. I have had tons of fun in Gladius, which is a much better engine system for the exact 
 same game. At least in Gladius, you had battle arenas that changed and had elevation AND were open 
 to character movement. Enchanted Arms plays more like a chess board that wants to be Final Fantasy. 
 It's neither.
  
  So many little things add up to make this an unpleasant gaming experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 666sinboy81
Rating: 8.7
Date: Apr 5, 2007 7:32 pm PT
Review:  why is this reviewed so much higher than the ps3 version??? acheivements? what i dont get it??? 
 for one of the first nex gen role i was more than satisfyd ... and hey if anyone gripes about the 
 bland american voice acting switch it to the japanese voice actors they are top not in every way 
 wether its the main characters or the golems they all are varied and great ... just wait to you 
 come upon sayaka mmmm drools one of the nicest game girls ive seen in a while another that comes 
 to mind is girl in god had mmm lucious or luka from lost planit woohoo hotty anyways another good 
 aspect of this title was the quik tactics battles wich cant take some decent strat and easly a 
 timeless feal .. and yet even another nice aspect of this game is getting acheivements for beating 
 various golems wich was new to me in an rpg and quite welcome even made me want to play on more 
 and more .. all the characters in the game are layered and sumwhat original another nice spot .. 
 the game is long and even if some of the envirnments are bland in high res still look good to me 
 the whole package even the magna that was included was a cool extra devil golem such as the ice 
 queen totally rocked i thought if you have any qwells about getting this title and u are an rpg 
 fan throw them out the door this title more than delevers for a first next gen rpg i will never 
 sell my copy... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CrimzonTide
Rating: 7.6
Date: Mar 28, 2007 12:22 pm PT
Review:  Enchanted Arms is a fun game because it is the only JRPG out for the 360, and it delivers the typical 
 JRPG format. The story is engaging, and the characters are believable. The main issue is the lack 
 of side quests, other than the Holy Beast Shrine. The difficulty is perfect, as some bosses are 
 quite challenging. The final boss for sure will provide a challenge for even the most weathered 
 of gamers. While I was not disappointed by Enchanted Arms, I was defintely left with an empty hole 
 where excitement should have been. I really wish this game could have been more, but sadly, it 
 doesn't quite reach the necessary level. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 520252
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 27, 2007 5:50 pm PT
Review:  FRrankly, you can tell whoever reviewed it hasn't played pass the ice queen lvl, cause the game 
 gets so amazing after that (that last easily 5 - 6 hours) . This game dubbing sucks at the beginning, 
 but gets really good after a bit, the first few dialogue are pretty cheesy. The battles are amazingly 
 boring for 10 hours of the game (which frankly isn't very far in the game) , takes a long time to 
 get going, but once it does, it's so much fun. I absoludely loved it, the graphics are really good, 
 no idea where he got that they are bad. If you love rpg, do not pass this one, it will keep you 
 busy 30 hours for the main story, and 20 more if you want everything it has to offer. The major 
 bosses are going to make you go WTF a lot due to their difficulty that require some lvling before 
 you can even attempt them. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rockguitarist89
Rating: 7.1
Date: Mar 20, 2007 1:32 pm PT
Review:  If you're looking to buy this game, you should first consider some options. If you own a 360, there 
 are really no other true rpg games at this time. Coming out soon are games such as Blue Dragon, 
 Eternal Sonata, and Lost Odyssey. If you simply cannot wait for an rpg on the 360 until then, Enchanted 
 Arms fits in nicely to your 360 library.
  
  I don't know how much I can stress that this game is NOT for everyone. If you enjoy the tradional 
 rpg, this will be your cup of tea. Enchanted Arms will not leave you feeling as if you've played 
 something entirely orginal, but it has its own ways of satisfying you. The combat system, as explained 
 in many other reviews, and in the Gamespot review, is slightly different ( I didn't say good) from 
 other rpgs. You will fight more battles than you can even imagine in this game, and as much as 
 I could go into telling you how the battle system works (your characters are on a grid and fight 
 using much simpler chess-like moves) , it's just not worth it because if you're most likely to just 
 start the battle and select auto and let your characters fight automatically as you hold down the 
 Y ( fast forward ) button and wait for the battle to end. If this game had not included the fast 
 forward button, this game probably would have been given a noticeably lower score due to the frequency 
 of battles and how long a battle would take fighting on your own. Though the battle concept sounds 
 promising, it's really no different than most other new age rpgs. Most rpgs nowadays are taking 
 turn-based fighting and mixing it up a bit to keep you less bored as you level up, making this 
 game less revolutionary.
  
  The story of Atusma, an enchanter from Yokohoma University, is probably one of the most straight-forward 
 storylines you will ever encounter. There are hardly any twists to speak of. By the time you get 
 to the end of the game you may be asking yourself Did it really end just as I expected? To not 
 be too hard on Enchanted Arms story, I would like to point out that it is not a bad storyline, 
 it's just nothing original.
  
  As a sidequest, you can collect over 100 golems (pretty much just allies that are not human) to 
 use as you fight through the story or online. Though this is a nice little concept in theory, it 
 gets boring fast and you will probably lose interest in finding and even synthesising them since 
 many of them are weaker than your human characters.
  
  Though some of what I've written sounds bad, Enchanted Arms is not a bad game. There are some quirks 
 here and there, but for the 360, there are not many games that can top the 40 or so hours it takes 
 to complete this game. That is definitely a plus, but you are almost guarenteed to never play through 
 it again based on the high encounter rate and linear storyline. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gaeren
Rating: 8.6
Date: Mar 19, 2007 9:31 am PT
Review:  the game is a great way to flex 360 muscle. it's very pretty. the character designs are so typically 
 japanese it's almost funny. the golems are a cool addition as you can earn build and mold party 
 members essentially... creating your own golem army after a while. that said, the level design and 
 story (at first) is insanely reminiscent of final fantasy 8. eventually it tries to do it's own 
 thing, but the story is not the joy in this game anyway, it's the character development.
  
  you regularly get money and skill points with which to adjust any characters stats to your liking. 
 sure they still lvl up, but now u don't have to wait. if yer not hitting an enemy hard enough, 
 go thru 5 fights and then up your attack power with sp. the magic is kinda hit and miss so far, 
 but overall the game is addictive and fun to play, and that's all i really wanted out of it anyway. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ccolbert
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 18, 2007 9:41 am PT
Review:  Ive always been a fan of the Final Fantasy series. Honestly, I think a big part of why theyve 
 been so popular is simply their ability to weather the storm. There really havent been that many 
 games that have had such a strong following for such a long period of time.
  
  So, why am I talking about Final Fantasy when this is an Enchanted Arms review? As far as I know, 
 this is the only real RPG on the Xbox 360 that follows in the Final Fantasy format and it does 
 a decent job of scratching that itch. Not to mention that you can pick a copy up for under $25 
  and thats an important point when most of the top titles stay around $60 for quite some time.
 
  
  Bottom line: Enchanted Arms proves an acceptable alternative/supplement for Final Fantasy fans. 
 The visuals, although not cutting edge or next-gen, are beautiful, even spectacular at times, 
 but after seeing them once, youll find yourself holding down Y (fast forward) quite a bit. The 
 storyline is either typical or nostalgic, predictable or classic, mundane or relaxing - depending 
 on your demographic. That said, its well worth the cost and sure to satiate any hunger for a single-player, 
 relaxing fantasy RPG ... until something better comes along. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Boywondereyed
Rating: 5.6
Date: Mar 17, 2007 11:12 am PT
Review:  Imagine you could warp back to 1985 and play the latest Japanese RPG. Well now your dreams can 
 come true - just buy Enchanted Arms and you will feel the last two video games generations never 
 happened.
  
  Sure it's an ok-ish RPG but don't we all expect more now post Oblivion and the wonders of HD ? 
 Running along endless 100000 mile long bland looking corridors waiting for the next bland random 
 turn based battle filled with bland enemies to be killed by the bland main characters is so tedious 
 you'll long to watch paint dry.
  
  The only reason for playing this is the reason I stuck with is - the achievement points. Your reward 
 for not dropping into a coma while playing is all 1000 points if you can stay awake until the end.
 
  
  My advice - avoid this unless you found the FF games too exciting and are longing for something... bland. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Elite29
Rating: 8.1
Date: Mar 12, 2007 12:18 am PT
Review:  For any gamer who owned an original Xbox or the newer Xbox 360, the Japanese-style RPG genre has 
 been something of a myth. With Japan still not buying into the Xbox, Japanese RPG's don't seem 
 to come to Microsoft's consoles. Enchanted Arms is the first one to come out. Like I said in my 
 opening, this won't make you forget any of the better RPG's to come out before it. Enchanted Arms 
 does it's job in filling a huge void in the 360's library and it's a good RPG nonetheless.
  
  In my opinion, there are three major things that can make or break a Japanese RPG. The story 
 &amp; characters must make you care. The battle system must be fun to play since you are going 
 to be using it a lot in random battles. And the character customization system must be deep, interesting, 
 and fulfilling. Thankfully, Enchanted Arms does a good job on all of these fronts.
  
  For the most part, the story is interesting and keeps you interested in the game. There are the 
 usual things you always seem to find in these games, so this isn't breaking any ground here. The 
 lead character, Atsuma, is sometimes annoying and stupid. He does get better as the game goes along, 
 but the game doesn't really hit it's stride until about 5 hrs. in. The other characters in the 
 game range from being kinda cool to annoying as hell. Some of this annoyance comes from the cheesy 
 dialogue that are usual for these type of games. Most of the annoyance comes from the awful voice 
 acting. The character, Yuki, is easily the most annoying character I have ever heard in a videogame. 
 And I have nothing against the sexual orientation of people or in-game characters, but the character, 
 Makato, was so blatenly annoying that I wished a horrid death upon him many times.
  
  Other than the few annoying characters &amp; some cheesy dialogue, the characters are typical RPG-fare. 
 The storyline is also pretty standard for this genre. Good still fights evil to save the world, 
 etc., etc. Enchanted Arms does just enough to keep you interested long enough to finish the game. 
 There are really no 'Aeris getting killed' moments that will have you talking about it with your 
 friends for years to come. In fact, you will probably never play the game again after beating it 
 and won't want to. But for the fifty hours it takes to beat it, you will be well entertained.
 
  
  The battle system is a nice turn-based strategy style on a battle grid. It's a fun system that 
 never really evolves into anything all that deep. It does do a good job at making the battles less 
 of a chore. And you will be battling a lot, since there are a ton of random encounters all over 
 the place. There is also a ton of backtracking through areas, especially if you are interested 
 in finding the hidden stuff. So it's a good thing that fighting enemies is actually fun.
  
  Along with the storyline, your battles will revolve around you fighting or using Golems . As you 
 play through the game, you will aquire many golems to fight in battles for you. You can develop 
 them almost exactly like a regular character and some of them are very strong. I stuck with the 
 human characters the whole game, but many people choose to use golems in the place of a couple 
 of the weaker characters. It's a smart thing to do and definately would have made my game easier. 
 I am a stubborn purist, however, and would rather use the storyline human character. But it is 
 a cool idea and it gives you TONS of variety for the battles.
  
  One area that need some more work is the visuals. That's not to say they are bad, but they only 
 look 'next-gen' in a few areas. All of the cut-scenes are very nice (especially a certain 'frosty' 
 one in the beginning) and some of the spell effects look great. The game does the job, but this 
 could have been made for the PS2 or Xbox. It didn't really bother me while playing all that much, 
 but it's something I should definately mention.
  
  The sound leaves a lot to be desired, unfortunately. The music is pretty normal for this kind of 
 game. The end-battle music sounds VERY similar to something you would hear in a 'Final Fantasy' 
 game. As I mentioned before, the voice acting is horrid. There are only a few characters in the 
 game that won't annoy you on a regular basis when they speak. And for some reason, not all of the 
 script has been voice acted. It's very strange, but due to the acting being so bad...... maybe it's 
 a blessing.
  
  The game is around fifty hours long if you play it just to beat it. There are several hidden areas 
 and things to find that could extend the game quite a bit. The achievements are all storyline based, 
 so if you beat the game you will get 850. There is a question that you are asked toward the end 
 of the game that decides what kind of ending you get. Always choose the second answer, as that 
 will get you the happy ending. It will also get you the other 150 gamer points you will need to 
 get the full thousand. While I do like getting 1000 points for beating this long game, I wish there 
 were some points depending on how many golems you find around the world. Some of them are quite 
 powerful and hard to find, so a reward would have been niec. There is a multi-player aspect to 
 this, but it feels tacked on and isn't much fun. It involves dualing golems online. Snore.
  
  Enchanted Arms certainly doesn't bring anything new to the table as far as Japanese RPG's go. 
 In fact, if this was on the PS2 it would probably get lost in the shuffle of all of the other RPG's 
 on that system. But since the 360 was the perfect choice of system to bring this game to. We need 
 more Japanese RPG's on the 360, but until we do Enchanted Arms does a good job at keep you busy 
 and having fun while doing it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ffaddict6229
Rating: 7.3
Date: Feb 25, 2007 7:39 am PT
Review:  I thought this game was just average.
  the combat is interesting with the golems at first but it becomes boring.
  the story is ok but 
 as other people say the characters are FFX wanabees. Atsuma is Tidus, Karin is Yuna, Rigar is Auron, 
 and Yuki is Rikku. The gameplay keeps itself fresh by having some minigames but only a few arer 
 interesting.
  The graphics are good but they should be better considering the 360s power. The sound is pretty 
 bad. The soundtrack is very repetitive, and will annoy more then immerse. The voice is also horrible 
 and can get extremely annoying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ElithKhan
Rating: 6.1
Date: Feb 20, 2007 3:38 pm PT
Review:  Enchanted Arms was the rpg i really looked forward too when i heard it was coming out. So i buy 
 it play it for maybe 2 hours then turn it off. I didnt play it again until about 4 months later.
 
  
  It's a really annoying game and its annoying because it could have been so bloody good but its 
 just not. The characters have about as much charisma as a brick. The voice acting is terrible, 
 sound effects wise its nothing special and there is far to much pointless dialog.
  
  The story isn't terrible, but there are too many secrets that just become annoying after a while, 
 for instance the relationship between Rigar and the princess girl, it is focused on a fair bit 
 at the start when you meet them then brushed aside and does not seem to come up again ( i am no 
 where near finishing the game so it may come up some where) .
  
  Graphically the game could have been better, for a Xbox 360 title i was expecting sprawling cities 
 bustling with people, what i got was a small town square with the smallest turn out to a fair i 
 have even seen.
  
  I couldnt help but feel i was playing rejected Final Fantasy X characters are one point. Rigar 
 is like a wannabe Auron, just Rigar is really realy bad at it.
  
  Anyway i'm not gonna keep going on at this. I realise how hard making a game is i just wish they 
 had spent more time on it, the graphics should have been better, the character design should have 
 been better, environment wise should have been alot better. I wish it was better i really really 
 do. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: knitecrow007
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 17, 2007 5:23 pm PT
Review:  Let me start by confessing a little known dark secret  I have never played a JRPG for more than 
 10 minutes. That is not to say I am not an RPG fan, which I am, but I am accustomed to western 
 RPGs such as Fallout, Baulders Gate, Fable and KOTOR. As of writing this review, the xbox 360s 
 RPG library is rather anemic. My attraction to e this game was its use of turn based combat which 
 I have long craved since the days fallout 2. Right from the get-go Enchanted Arms introduces you 
 to its turn-based combat system. The entire game combat mechanics revolves around this system and 
 will ultimately determine your like or dislike for this game. There are two square grids for opposing 
 sides on which players from opposing players are placed. Although attacks can be made into the 
 enemy section of the battlefield, one cannot move there. The system introduces more depth by having 
 elemental affiliation. Logically a fire attack will cause more damage to a water based creature. 
 While the whole system is strategic in nature, it is lacking when compared to a battle system like 
 that found in fallout. With the exception of boss battles, most of the battles require the use 
 of very general techniques.
  
  The game essentially involves running around from point A to B and engaging in battles. Uniting 
 these battles is the game world and story. The environments look pretty but feels linear with invisible 
 walls. Often you will find yourself on a road unable to walk/run into the surrounding area. Even 
 worse  most of the combat encounters are random with invisible enemies. You are walking one minute, 
 next, battle. The only solid enemies are gloms that can be captured or bosses. However there are 
 NPR characters that you can interact with, even if this is very shallow. For all its failing and 
 annoyances the game does having more than one saving grace. Two, in fact: the story and characters. 
 The characters are well portrayed with good voice acting and tied up in an interesting story that 
 will keep you paying. I was annoyed with the presentation of dialogue and how I had to hit A 
 button to advance after few lines but I kept listening/reading. Had the dialogue presentation been 
 better, the impact would have been far greater. In the end the game was a tiring experience taking 
 close to 50 hours to complete but the story made it worth while. Pick this game up for the turn-based 
 combat and engaging story and be prepared to put up with annoyances that are typically found JRPGs. 
 JRPG veterans should feel right at home. [PS you can pick up an easy 1000 achievement points by 
 finishing this game. No tricks. No hassles. Just finish the main story.] 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MikeinSC2
Rating: 6.4
Date: Feb 10, 2007 6:45 pm PT
Review:  Enchanted Arms is the first Japanese-style RPG for the XBox 360 and a lot of good ideas are present, 
 but they never really seem to fully gel.
  
  OK, in a nutshell, you are a young, upstart metrosexual student with an affinity for using golems. 
 Of course, a devil golem (one of the ones who nearly destroyed the Earth waaaaay back during the 
 Golem Wars) is unleashed and freezes his university solid. And our hero Atsuma then must go save 
 the world. Yeah, it's not exactly an original story. Nor is it overly compelling. But some RPG's 
 became excellent in spite of exceptionally mediocre story-telling, so this isn't a definite death 
 blow. And, yes, I've left out key details because even though the game isn't exactly new, I'm not 
 here to spoil things.
  
  One of the major problems with the title is not JUST that there is a wealth of dialogue that is 
 victimized by poor voice performance, it's that the dialogue and the scenes involving them are 
 just plain dull. You'll sit there for minutes on end, staring at static screens while you here 
 very some bad voice work trying to make sense out of the somewhat meandering storyline.
  
  The visuals for the title, though, are quite good. The dungeons look terrific, the cities look 
 terrific --- everything just looks really good. I don't think it looks as nice as Oblivion, but 
 it graphically is comparable to what a really, REALLY cleaned-up Final Fantasy XII title would 
 look like. It really does not stretch the capabilities of the system, but it looks better than 
 current gen titles can pull off.
  
  One thing that is quite well done is the combat system. It's turn based, but the strategic aspect 
 of the combat really does make all of the battles fun to play. You make a mistake and place somebody 
 in the wrong spot and you will have problems. And placement and correct combatant choice really 
 make boss battles more challenging than the usual boss battle. The bosses aren't abnormally uber-powerful, 
 but you really have to know what you're doing if you wish to win.
  
  I suppose the biggest single impression I got from the title is that they ran out of ideas. The 
 latter part of the game seems to be tacked on to the earlier portions. I am also less than ecstatic 
 that there just weren't a wealth of places. For example, Oblivion and Final Fantasy don't give 
 you the vibe of being on a VERY straight line --- but here, it is an overwhelming feeling. I really 
 can't recommend the title. I wish I could, but this is only going to be satisfactory for hard-core 
 J-RPG fans. Otherwise, there will be better options later. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: calui
Rating: 8.2
Date: Feb 9, 2007 10:39 am PT
Review:  Gameplay 7: The gameplay on Enchanted Arms is enojoyable but can become quite tedious. The battle 
 system is the best part of the gameplay and is somewhat similar to Bahamut Lagoon on the SNES. 
 You can move your characters around to certain areas of the battlefield, and then execute an action. 
 Their attacks have a range of how much they affect, and you have to move them in range of attacking 
 the enemy. The game also lets you fast forward your characters actions, to minimize your waiting 
 time which is a very nice addition. Other than the attack range idea, this is pretty much standard 
 turn based RPG battle system. There are several short comings from the gameplay however. If your 
 character dies you pretty much forget any help from them until you get to a healing point. This 
 is because you can only revive them in battle and not directly from the menu. This is a big hassle, 
 and dampens the gameplay experience. Also there are simply to many random encounters which get 
 annyoing, and all the backtracking is really frusterating. Thankfully the battles are enjoyable 
 for the most part, but the rest of the gameplay is just average. Graphics 8: Graphics look great, 
 but certaintly aren't anything amazing by Xbox 360 standards, but there are flashes of amazing 
 visuals throughout the game as well. Sound 8: The voice acting is solid, and the music is pretty 
 good for the most part, but one character who is a guy really sounds gay and I was not only scared 
 by Ubi Soft putting a gay guy in this game, but his voice was also constantly annoying. Other than 
 that the sound is pretty good. Value 9: Enchanted Arms is a game that will keep you busy for 40 
 plus hours, and there is also an online thing where you can fight against other people, which is 
 a nice addition to the main story-line. Tilt 9: Enchanted Arms boasts an excellent story, and this 
 is certaintly the highlight of the game. I won't give away any of the events, but the story is 
 intense and very intresting. In short the story keeps Enchanted Arms from just being another average 
 RPG. Overall 8.2/10 Even though the gameplay throughout Enchanted Arms is somehwhat frusterating, 
 the story picks up the slack, and makes this a game worth checking out. I honestlty enjoyed this 
 game more than FFXII because this has a memorable story. Honestly a must have for RPG fans that 
 own a 360, but since the gameplay is somewhat dissapointing, it really only appeals to RPG fans. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dano10477
Rating: 7.9
Date: Jan 31, 2007 5:41 pm PT
Review:  This game really surprised me, after reading a couple of reviews I was expecting very little from 
 it. However I will say I was happy to find out that it wasn't as bad as I had heard. It is a very 
 unique game, which is probably why it received the less than stellar ratings. All in all it was 
 a pleasurable experience for me. I believe I played the game for a little over two weeks, with 
 almost 42 hours invested. I found some portions of the game to be very easy, and some really made 
 me think about my strategy .... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: star_fire_777
Rating: 6
Date: Jan 23, 2007 4:11 pm PT
Review:  Enchanted Arms, in brief, is a classic turn-based Japanese-style RPG with next-gen graphics. One 
 of the few of its kind on the 360 or any next-gen platform, and worth a look for fans of the genera. 
 Everyone else, unfortunately, will probably find it slow, frustrating, and repetitive.
  
  I really wanted to like this game; and even though I ended up being disappointed, I still managed 
 to have some truly fun moments with it. The combat system is the best thing about the game, and 
 quite fun to play with and master. Enchanted Arms is a decent game, but only that. Nothing remarkable 
 or truly inspiring, and there are unfortunate issues that really mire the enjoyment of the game.
 
  
  There are some really frustrating moments that require massive amounts of level-grinding in order 
 to pass through, namely the last boss encounter. I played the game through pretty-well up until 
 the very end where all of a sudden I needed to spend hours and hours leveling my characters in 
 order to beat what felt like an unbalanced, unfair boss. Very disappointing, but nothing new to 
 Japanese RPGs that are not fully-realized.
  
  I think the hardcore J-RPGers, though, will love this type of game - but only them. It's too bad 
 this game is not aimed at a wider audience, because it's niche-specific quirks make it un-recommendable 
 to most game players. If you're not into level-grinding, finding every commandable creature, gaining 
 every stat upgrade, and wading through an overly-verbose story, then Enchanted Arms is not the 
 game for you.
  
  Which is too bad, because there's a really good game in Enchanted Arms, buried underneath the last-gen 
 Japanese RPG design flaws. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crazykillajoe
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 20, 2007 3:37 pm PT
Review:  This is the best turn based rpg you can get for the 360. It's a must have if your an rpg fan, it 
 has amazing graphics, great gameplay and an intriguing storyline. If your a fan of the Final Fantasy 
 series you should most definently get this game. If your looking for an rpg and don't wanna wait 
 for Blue Dragon this should be your choice. The cities and towns look absolutely amazing, they put 
 so much detail into them. The characters look amazing and they each have their own unique fighting 
 style. I haven't been a big fan of ubisofts rpg's but they definently redeemed them self's with 
 this game. A must have for rpg fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darko_wolf
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jan 13, 2007 5:12 pm PT
Review:  Enchanted Arms at first glance seems, over the top, but what major Japanese RPG isnt? Modelled, 
 clearly, after the Great Final Fantasy series EA is a simple yet innovative RPG adventure that 
 hook you from the beginning after everything goes pear-shaped in what is otherwise a peaceful world.
 
  You play Atsuma, a young and hot blooded student Enchanter and well known drop out, but regardless 
 of his life, he holds a great secret that may well just save the world.
  Coming along with you for the ride is Toya, the resident straight A student with a cool edge, and 
 Makoto, the ever annoying, yet decidely funny first ever gay hero in an RPG. Both companions add 
 a great amount of charm and extremely natural dialogue to your first few hours within the game, 
 although Makoto will get on your nerves until his character begins to show more depth later.
  The game itself seems to be set on Earth, many, many years in the future where magic excpet for 
 Enchanting has been outlawed, and no one is sure why. Within this world, Golems are used everywhere 
 in life, from clowns to pizza servers, they are everywhere, but when they ALL malfunction, everything 
 turns bad, quick.......
  
  The game is present wonderfully, using a lot of the same imagery used in FFX, making you feel like 
 you have seen everything before, the University at the beginning feels very much like Balamb Garden 
 in FFVIII, but despite the similiar imagery, the game feels like it should. The characters are 
 rendered particularly well and they move very naturally. Each character also looks and feels very 
 unique. The english voice acting in some cases leaves a lot to be desired. Toya can be a bit dry, 
 Atsuma seems like he has ADD, and Makoto is extremely camp, ala Teen Movie, however, their voices 
 soon melt into their character and you wouldnt want to hear them any other way.
  
  The games battle system is at first complicated and daunting, but after you realise its just a 
 board game, ran in turns, you will nail it pretty quickly. Using a grid in which you and your enemies 
 face each other, each side takes turns to execute commands, then the other sides goes, to say the 
 least EA has some wonderful spell and attack effects and thankfully the game zooms in to each character 
 for the commands execution so you can see the detail. This is relieving because everything else 
 in battle is done from a full view of the grid and everything can seem small. Also in battle you 
 can utilize a plethora of Golems each with different skills and abilities, and everyone of them 
 proves useful, if you can find and make them.
  
  On the whole this is a good game with a lot of content, that will set memories ablaze. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mastachief2552
Rating: 7.1
Date: Jan 11, 2007 7:48 pm PT
Review:  Enchanted Arms is the first Japanese RPG For the XBOX 360. While there are really no huge innovations 
 that set this game apart from other JRPG's enchanted arms is a competent game in regards to the 
 genre. In enchanted arms you play as the troubled youth atsuma whos right arm has mysterious powers 
 and even a scarry voice. as events unfold it turns out that you must battle the forces of evil 
 to save the world, nothing new right? The story is actually pretty good although it kind of gets 
 predictable in some parts and you will find yourself hitting the A button over and over as fast 
 as you can to get through the disappointing dialog scenes. the problem with the dialog scenes is 
 that all it shows when two characters are talking is a zoomed in picture of each character, talking 
 sometimes with voice overs sometimes with out and sometimes doing different posing positions depending 
 on the tone of the conversation. while the cut scenes in this game are nicely done they occur very 
 few times in this game. what does make enchanted arms unique is that the battle system is played 
 on a grid in which you position your characters for there attacks and abilities. it reminds me of 
 advance wars. The game should take around 40 hours to beat depending on how well your characters 
 progress and how much time you spend looking for golems. (golems are additional characters that 
 you find during the game, kinda like Pokemon once you beat them you can have them join your party) 
 this game does fairly well in the graphics department although the environments are pretty bland. 
 I am disappointed in the re play factor since all of the achievements are unlocked as you play 
 through the story. the only other reason to go back and play through is for the golems and even 
 then its just boring back tracking. the game does have a multiplayer component but it feals tacked 
 on at the last moment. . while enchanted arms has some weak areas and doesn't do anything exceptional 
 to reinvent the JRPG formula the game is a decent representative of the JRPG genre on the XBOX 
 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tking1293
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jan 6, 2007 5:00 pm PT
Review:  Enchanted Arms is one of the first Japanese rpg's for the 360, and is fun but it does have its 
 bad moments. For example, the character's spend forever talking abbout something that could be 
 explained in just a sentance or two. The way they talk is also annoying. sometimes there aren't 
 any voiceovers at all, sometimes you advance the voices with a, and sometimes there is even a cutscene. 
 Other than that, I like it. The battle system takes a while to get used to, but eases up over time. 
 The game also has a Pkemon thing going to it, where you kill certain creatures and are able to 
 create them and add them too your party. Overall, this is another descent game added to the 360 
 library, but will slowly be forgotten. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lathenca
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 15, 2007 3:18 pm PT
Review:  First and foremost, don't listen to the Gamespot review. (Sorry Gamespot!)
  It's completely wrong, from what they call dull graphics to the we've seen this all before gameplay. 
 Sure, we've seen alot of what's in this game, but that doesn't make it terrible, games HAVE to 
 build off eachother, that's just... the way it is.
  
  Gameplay: 10
  Seriously though, it does deserve a 10 in this department. Firstly, it feels great to move your 
 character about, this may sound stupid, and it might be, but moving around the character is an 
 amazing feeling. The general feel to the game is classic JRPG, and any fan of the genre will love 
 it. The battles take place on a 4x3 grid which (don't let it off put you) is an amazing system. 
 The battles you can have are fantastic, and the strategies you can use are limitless, you can fight 
 your own way, which is pretty cool. The leveling up system is great too, which you should come 
 to expect from a Role-Playing game.
  
  Graphics: 8
  Now, I really don't know where Gamespot were going with the graphic score, because they are not 
 dull whatsoever, the character models are fantastic, the battle animations are brilliant, and the 
 world you explore really gives you a special feeling, it's that great.
  
  Sound: 7
  Moving on, I would have given the sound a 10, literally, if I was only rating the music the game 
 has to offer, because it's an amazing soundtrack, it really is. However, I feel I can only give 
 the game a 7 in this department because, in all honestly, the voice-acting is'nt great. It's Okay, 
 just not... Groundbreaking. It takes the score down to a 7, so that should really speak for itself 
 on the voices. Of course, you have the option of changing the speaking to Japanese, which really 
 sounds great. I however, didn't, as I don't speak a word of Japanese... You do have subtitles on 
 anyway, but I thought I'd get more from the game listening to it in my native language.
  
  Value: 10
  As far as value goes, you're going to get your money's worth, plain and simple. With 
 over 40 hours gameplay, it's a fantastic and epic story, equipped with alot of sidequests and over 
 100 golems to hunt, this game could easily take you up to 100 hours, especially if you want to 
 train your characters to battle online, yes, there's an online mode. It consists of battling using 
 the golems you've found on your journey against opponents around the world. A neat touch to a fantastic 
 game.
  
  Overall, this is a fantastic game and I can't stress it enough, don't listen to the gamespot review/score. 
 I took the chance in buying this, and boy am I glad I did. It's a truly amazing Role-Playing experience, 
 and a must have for fans of the genre. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: taintedsun
Rating: 7.2
Date: Dec 31, 2006 6:00 pm PT
Review:  Countless years ago, machines called Golems were created to do a single task until it was completed, 
 even long after the one who gave the order perished. So, when this technology was used for war, 
 its no surprise that the ideologies of those who were born and died, lived on through these machines. 
 The Golem War, as it was later coined, raged for a thousand years, until finally, the most dangerous 
 Golems, the Devil Golems, were sealed away. Now one of the Devil Golems is about to be reawakened, 
 and you are going to be right in the middle of the action.
  
  Enchanted Arms follows the story of Atsuma, a na&iuml; ve student with a lot of spirit, and a mysterious 
 gift. The focus of the game is based around Atsumas right arm, which is able to affect Golems 
 in strange ways. His arm quickly gets him and his two best friends into trouble, as they reawaken 
 a Devil Golem. To save not only his friends, but mankind as a whole, Atsuma must learn to control 
 the gift he was given, and destroy the feared Devil Golem once and for all.
  
  While the story in Enchanted Arms is a unique one, it is not particularly engaging. The story is 
 told though voiced over scenes that place two of the speaking characters on the screen side by 
 side. Enchanted Arms story is full of twists and turns, but they never seem to be much of a surprise, 
 resulting in the story seeming sort of flat. Despite this, Enchanted Arms is able to keep you interested 
 in the story line enough to where you will want to finish the game. As you travel throughout the 
 game you will find many characters and Golems to assist your quest. To obtain these Golems you 
 first have to find their core. Sometimes these cores can be purchased at shops, but most are found 
 by defeating certain enemies or discovering particular treasure chests. After a Golem core is obtained 
 you will be able construct that Golem and use it in battle. There are over a hundred different 
 Golems in the game, resulting in an infinite number of creatable teams.
  
  The gameplay in Enchanted Arms requires you to select a team and battle them, turn-based style, 
 against an opponent. Your teams consist of four characters, made up entirely of the main characters 
 or a combination of the main cast and Golems. The characters you control are placed on a grid, 
 while the enemy units are placed on an opposing grid. During battle you move your characters around 
 your grid, but not cross into the opponents grid. This adds a bit of strategy to the game as the 
 characters in the front are able to absorb damage that would have normally been dealt to the characters 
 in the rear.
  
  The fact that there are over a hundred Golems in the game makes for some interesting combinations 
 and strategies. However, these strategies are sort of irrelevant, as there is always a best team 
 to use in any given situation. Also, many of the most interesting Golems dont show up in the game 
 until the very end. Considering that when you create a Golem he or she starts off at the lowest 
 level possible, with minimal health points, it is not really fun to build up those Golems, even 
 though they are the most interesting and powerful. Another downside to the game is the encounter 
 rate. Being a turn-based RPG, it is expected that there will be random encounters. However, Enchanted 
 Arms makes the encounter rate of other RPGs look trivial. Luckily, you have the ability to fast 
 forward battles, which makes the battle animations occur much quicker. In the end, this seems to 
 hurt the game, because after playing the game for about five hours, you are going to be fast forwarding 
 every battle. To make matters worse, there is the option to auto-fight battles, which allows the 
 computer select all your moves for you. Against most random encounters, and even some bosses, this 
 method of auto-fighting and fast forwarding is successful. After playing the game for around fifteen 
 hours, battles become a blur of pressing the same button while hearing and watching the same battle 
 sounds and animations. To Enchanted Arms benefit there are a few memorable, and some what challenging, 
 battles that occur in the game to keep you on your toes. Sometimes quality battles come in the 
 form of random encounters, but most often they are boss battles. Although the battle system has 
 its flaws, the idea is quite interesting. Each of your characters has a certain amount of vitality 
 points. For each turn they take in battle, they lose a single point. When their vitality points 
 reach zero, the character starts the next battle with one HP and is unable to cast any spells. 
 Therefore, it is the goal of each battle to defeat the enemy in the least amount of turns. After 
 each battle, the life and energy you lose is replenished, allowing you to unleash all your most 
 powerful skills each battle. There is also an interesting mechanism in the battle system that allows 
 you to use combination attacks. Combination attacks occur when certain characters that you use 
 more often than others all attack the same enemy character. During a combination attack, each of 
 the characters involved in the attack appear on the screen in a sort of action-comic-book style 
 window. When these occur there is a sense of satisfaction, especially if all four characters are 
 involved.
  
  To break up the monotony of never ending battles, there are a few mini-games to play. These mini-games 
 consist of casino games and a battle arena. Most of the casino games are boring, unless you get 
 huge pleasure out of betting and loosing money. The arena however is quite interesting. When you 
 reach the area that houses the arena, you will only have access to a few battles, but as you start 
 winning you will unlock more battles. In most cases you will be able to keep battling until you 
 just barely slip by a particular group of enemies, and youll be forced to stop as you know the 
 next group will only be harder. The rewards from these mini-games come in the form of special points 
 that you can spend on prizes. The majority of them are items and weapons, but some of the prizes 
 are special Golems.
  
  Graphically, Enchanted Arms is not horrible, but does not stand out a great deal. The Golems and 
 characters appear to be up to par, although its hard to see much detail while they are in battle. 
 Character design is not what Enchanted Arms suffers from graphically, the problem is the environment. 
 The key word here is dull. With so many quality RPGs on the market, such as World of Warcraft and 
 Oblivion, its a bummer that Enchanted Arms didnt push the envelope in the environment department. 
 Cities are desolate and barren. Even when there are a lot of people around, it doesnt seem like 
 there is anything going on. What is even worse is that the outdoor environment is even more barren. 
 When running from city to city it feels like you just stepped into the depths of space. Enchanted 
 Arms is missing all the small nuances that make an RPG world come alive.
  
  The battle animations in Enchanted Arms are not all that interesting. As the game progresses the 
 skills you obtain become stronger, but there is no real wow factor from most of them. Although 
 you know that the skills are stronger simply because their damage is higher, its hard to tell 
 that they are really stronger just by looking at them. Most RPGs give you a good sense of feedback 
 as your characters become strong. Enchanted Arms fails in this area, and can almost make you neglect 
 purchasing newer skills.
  
  The biggest complaint that most people have about Enchanted Arms is the American voiceovers. One 
 the characters in the game, who happens to be gay has horrible American voiceovers. In most cases, 
 American voiceovers of Japanese titles are quite poor. Luckily, this is easily remedied by changing 
 the voiceovers to Japanese and reading the subtitles. The rest of the sound in Enchanted Arms is 
 acceptable. The spells and skills sound okay, but they are nothing special. The Japanese voiceovers 
 in battle sound decent, but seeing as you probably wont understand what they are saying, their 
 quality is almost irrelevant.
  
  Despite its many setbacks, Enchanted Arms is an entertaining game for any hardcore RPG fan. Its 
 also a game for anyone who enjoys Japanese animation, as the game is based firmly in the Japanese 
 media style. With its interesting battle system, large cast of playable creatures, and extremely 
 long gameplay, its worth picking up if you meet at least one of the two criteria above and arent 
 an extremely unforgiving critique. Oh, and did I mention that the achievements are all extremely 
 easy? Just beat the game and join the 1000 points club.
  
  My game time - 45+ hours Gameplay - 8
  Graphics - 7
  Sound - 6
  Value - 7
  Personal Preference 
 - 7 Average Score  7.0 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BigC43
Rating: 8.6
Date: Dec 28, 2006 10:02 pm PT
Review:  The Good: Strong, flowing storyline, great visuals and truely cinematic cutscenes, solid combat, 
 enjoyable premise.
  
  The Bad: Turn-based isn't for the impatient, gay guy get's annoying...
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  Enchanted Arms is the first truely next gen turn-based stratagy game to hit the market for the 
 Xbox 360, or any console for that matter. It's a very good and enjoyable game from the creators 
 of Chromehounds. You play as a kid from an enchanter school. He has a mysterious, powerful right 
 arm, but doesn't know what power it holds. You begin the game by skipping afternoon classes and 
 enjoying your day at the founding festival, before things go horrably wrong. The storyline for 
 Enchanted Arms is somewhat confusing, yet all the while satisfying to the player, and the turn-based 
 combat system is used very effectively. It's the basic you hit me, then I hit you style, but it's 
 done in a way that it is addicting, like Pokemon...
  
  In the game, you collect golems. These are also kinda like Pokemon, except you make them from materials 
 you collect throughout the game instead of catching them all... There are tons of different golems 
 ranging from a warewolf golem, to a pizza golem. You also get to name each golem, which is a meaningless, 
 but appreciated addition.
  
  The graphics of Enchanted Arms are truely next gen, although not as nice as Gears of War or Oblivion. 
 The sound effects and voice overs are also very well done, except the gay guy who follows one of 
 your characters around get's really annoying after a while...
  
  With over 100 characters, a massive storyline and online golem on golem multiplayer deathmatches, 
 Enchanted Arms is a solid game for RPG lovers looking for a next gen alternative to Final Fantasy. 
 It's a solid game that is easy to like, and that's coming from a guy who doesn't normally like 
 turn-based games...
  
  Gameplay: Solid, turn-based combat and environments give Enchanted Arms something to keep you playing 
 it.
  
  Graphics: Truely next gen look is easy on the eyes.
  
  Sound: Voice acting and sound effects are very well done.
  
  Value: It's $60, but it's a pretty 
 darn good game that is worth it for hardcore RPG fans.
  
  Final Thoughts: Now it's my turn to kill you... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jade_Mage
Rating: 8.9
Date: Dec 27, 2006 4:51 pm PT
Review:  I love this game! The storyline is fairly good and the characters are awesome. The dialog can be 
 very amusing at times. ^^ Just overall a great game. If you like Final Fantasy then this game is 
 one you should play. The battle system is very similar, but there are several differences. I love 
 the graphics. They are okay on regular TV, but pretty awsome on the HD. I recomend the HD for any 
 game really. The HD really is stunning. Makes the game so much more powerful. Like you feel like 
 your really there. The story line is a little predicable in the begining, but the further in you 
 go the more complicated it gets. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: juliusryan
Rating: 6
Date: Dec 22, 2006 5:23 pm PT
Review:  It's one of those games where either you'll love it or hate it, there's no grey area for this one. 
 As for me, I really tried to love it but there are so many things in the game that really frustrates 
 me. Here are some of them:
  
  1. There is not enough full motion video and in-game cut scenes
  2. The story progresses by showing 
 two characters on the screen doing the same repetitive poses (quite annoying after seeing them 
 do the same routine over and over again)
  3. Bad character design (not as good as Final Fantasy X) and VERY BAD VOICE ACTING. 4. Too much 
 back tracking and random encounters
  5. The turn-based system of combat is good until you realize that it's becoming repetitive and 
 your characters are being placed randomly on the map (e. g Range characters being placed in front 
 of your enemies while your melee characters are in the back row) . I don't consider this as a way 
 of having the elements of tactics bec. there were only a few squares that a character can move 
 into.
  
  I know It's bad to comment on a game if your frustrated but the thing is, this game have the potential 
 to become a much better game. The graphics is quite nice and I even enjoyed collecting golems even 
 though their not as powerful as the human characters. I would totally suggest to anyone to rent 
 this game first if your having any doubts to see if this game is your cup of tea. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mmogoon
Rating: 7.8
Date: Feb 14, 2007 3:31 pm PT
Review:  I enjoyed this game more and more as the hours rolled on. The Battle system was actually really 
 cool and worked surprisingly well and leaves you with a sense of accomplishment after a tough fight.
 
  The storyline isn't exactly very deep but the characters are quite cool with imaginative personalities 
 which can actually be pretty funny sometimes. The best part of the game for me was the leveling 
 up system. Basically as well as the usual EXP to gain levels, you receive SP which you can assign 
 to your parameters to additionally raise them at your will. So this gives you flexibility to perhaps 
 concentrate your characters on different parts of battling, like being a healer or a ranged attacker 
 for example.
  Graphics in this game I'm still not completely decided on. Sometimes they look really great, with 
 realistic lighting. Other times the environments are kinda bland with lower-res textures. However 
 generally this game look great and is definitely next-gen.
  Perhaps one gripe is not being able to play on after defeating the last boss. Personally i wasn't 
 bothered as i finished everything i wanted before commencing the last fight, but it would be a 
 cool addition nonetheless. As a true fan of the final fantasy games, i was pleasantly surprised 
 by how this game turned out. It supplied me with over 60 hours of gameplay which i enjoyed thoroughly. 
 Recommended. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ACRsnapple
Rating: 8.7
Date: Dec 19, 2006 10:32 am PT
Review:  this game rocks, i mean i can understand if someone doesnt like the way the fighting system is 
 set up but i mean come on. This game has a very addicting stroy line, thats mainly the reason i 
 got the game ( ilove long games) .
  I just wish they would have created a better way to fight, but then again its a very good game 
 and who know s what would happen if that would to happen.
  They have a great choice of people to fight with along with the golems. I personally only use one 
 golem and the three main characters. I have to say i like this game alot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sorasheart32
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 18, 2006 5:41 am PT
Review:  Wow when i saw the battling system for this game i thought to my self oh no. But when you play 
 this game its just so fun. You get rapped up in the story and instantly fall in love with the charectors. 
 This game is also very humorus. And easy to relate to. A very good RPG/ Adventure game. Atsuma 
 is very wild and crazy, you instantly relate to him in many ways. Doesnt like school. Wants to 
 go on a big adventure. Matoka the gay guy is simply hillarioius, but kinda weird but in a hilarious 
 way. And the other one, Starts with a Y but i forgot his name. Whoops. Strong, smart and level 
 headed. Together they make the perfect group of friends. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zazoo4455
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 10, 2006 12:49 am PT
Review:  Enchanted Arms is highly underrated. It is a solid turn-based RPG. It has great graphics, great 
 gameplay, and a good story. The combat system is really fun and the turn-based style (on a grid) 
 is good for thinking out strategies. It's the 2nd best RPG to date for the 360 (the best being 
 Oblivion) . If you like turn-based RPGs, Enchanted Arms is definitely worth checking out. The 360 
 needs more RPGs, and Enchanted Arms is a step in the right direction. The 360 is an awesome console, 
 but there are too many Shooters on the 360. And most Shooters are just too monotonous, boring, 
 and don't require much thinking. I recommend you try Enchanted Arms. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ballforeva
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 7, 2006 5:29 am PT
Review:  One of the first RPG to be released on the Xbox 360, at first it may seem like its a big risk to 
 take, as this game carries a huge weight on its shoulders, having to please the general audience 
 and promote the 360 at the same time. The title and box art of the game may lead you to assume 
 that its just another game trying to climb up the ladder. Although once you start the game, you 
 will be extremely impressed with the sheer drama and intensity of the storyline. The story is spread 
 over a vast world, unlike other RPG's, the game's environments differ constantly and lures the 
 player to explore this fantasy world. The graphics and design of the game are unmatched, the textures 
 and detail of each tree, rock, building, human or non-human, will blow you away. Of course, there 
 is a very rich storyline to match, you control Atsuma, a human who has mysterious powers in his 
 arm, accompanied with his comrades, together they explore the world and unravel its mysteries along. 
 This sounds cliche, but it is so much more than that, the dialogue of the characters is written 
 cleverly, the humor was slipped in just at the right moments to lighten up the mood. The actual 
 gameplay is a classic, like a lot of RPG's, you encounter battls randomly, and you are in a chess 
 board situation where you have to use strategic thinking in order to emerge victorious. In terms 
 of the battle system, it is quite expected and typical of an RPG. There are added elements such 
 as buying and creating weapons, the usage of golems as companions, and there is a casino thrown 
 in to increase the fun factor. To not spoil this game too much, it takes well over 100 hours to 
 fully complete this game, it may be extrememly frustrating at times, but that is a sign of a good 
 RPG. After all, these games are meant to be long but fun-filled. Although beating it once may not 
 entice you to beating it again, it can be annoying to have to go through the whole process again, 
 but that's how RPG's are designed to be, play it through once, and play it again when you feel 
 like it. The best part of the game is that you will feel an enormous sense of satisfaction after 
 beating it, it will make you feel proud, I can promise you that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crxhybrid85
Rating: 7.6
Date: Dec 6, 2006 7:46 pm PT
Review:  It's not quite Final Fantasy but Enchanted Arms is a pretty solid Japanese RPG. I really like the 
 battle system (mostly because it is different than regular turn based systems) , the graphics and 
 sound are decent and the overall gameplay is good. Nothing about it really smacks you in the face 
 and says this is a great game, but it is enjoyable. Once I finish it I will probably either trade 
 it in or just never play it again. Definately worth checking out if you can get it used like I 
 did. I think I paid like 30 bux for it at EB Games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kxno
Rating: 2.5
Date: Dec 6, 2006 2:34 pm PT
Review:  This game. Well, it sucks. Its slow, boring, battle system sucks. Voice overs sucks. Story is lame 
 and been their done that.
  One nice thing, you can get enemy monsters in your party. But it will be a long time before you 
 get a good one.
  Battle system. Its slow, stupid. You cant get the right move half of the time. You have little 
 HP. So you can only get hit about 2-3 times before you die. And when you flee you lose health and 
 points to restore health.
  I think the best part of the game is how after battle you can restore health with no potions. The 
 game is easy. Too easy. No real challenge. So if you want a slow, boring and very easy RPG. Get 
 this. But wait for something better on the Xbox 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rick_Moni
Rating: 8.6
Date: Nov 29, 2006 4:46 pm PT
Review:  Ok people, I hadn't been able to write my review about this game, anyway, first than anything I 
 want to tell you that this is the first jrpg that I play in my life, before i wasn't much of a 
 fan about this genre in particular, I thought they were kind of boring and all that, so I must 
 say that I didn't really know what to expect from this game, but now, i am so glad that i could 
 be able to play it and beat it.
  
  The story is based in some sort of future, where a GOLEM WAR took place, most of the world was 
 destroyed, but the remainning people rebuilt their cities. The game tells the story of Atsuma and 
 his fight against the Devil Golem called the Quenn of Ice , on his journey, Atsuma meet some firends 
 that will help him in his battle agaisnta the devil golems and other enemies.
  The story is kind of catchy, I really enjoyed, I must say that is a long story, but yet interesting 
 and in some parts even made me laugh, that Atsuma boy is really silly sometimes.
  
  About the gamepley, well, i think this is a hard part for me to describe, due i didn't play a JRPG 
 before, but I can tell you that i found it really easy to get, I think the learning curve for this 
 game is not hard at all, in fact, after a couple of battles you get used to the strategy and the 
 way to attack and defend your crew, making it able to enjoy the game since the beginning.
  
  The graphics are terrific, I liked them a lot, i didn't find any particular glicth or frame 
 rates issues, in fact, the game ran really smooth, the sound is nice too, nothing spectacular, 
 but is not bad, so if you put all this togeteher, you'll see that it is a complete game, that can 
 offer you at least more than 40 hours of play even more if you go and make the Beast Shrine challange 
 that would take at least 6 to 8 hours to complete.
  
  So, I think that if you like the JRPG genre, maybe this game isn't that complete for you, or maybe 
 there are some parts missing to make it a complete experience, but if you are not used to the genre, 
 then I can tell you to try it, and if you give it a chance it can entertain you for hours and hours, 
 I found it very addictive, in fact, since I started it, I couldn't stop until I finished it, so, 
 I guess that has a to be a good sign for you to give it a shot.
  
  Thank you very much guys, and see you next time. ^_^ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jessi_dusen
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 21, 2006 5:23 am PT
Review:  Ok.. So here we have a run of the mill RPG with a couple new twists (thank you kinky Japan) ... 
 Weve got the 13 year old Texan whos a little bit spoiled. Theres the stoic bodyguard and the 
 hot yet very annoying princess. We also have the FLAMING gay sub hero. Lastly we have the depressed 
 yet determined hero who is trying to rescue his magic genius friend who has been captured by a 
 demon. All the while you are trying to play a game that seems more like Pokemon than an RPG. So 
 sounds like an interesting plot line and the makings of an awesome japaname game.. Lets take a 
 look.
  
  Graphics: on the 360 BLAH there could have been better. The world seems so empty. Colors are 
 pretty and there are lots of shiny textures. Models are nicely done and textured. Thats about 
 it. The cut scenes when the demons come into their own are impressive but that ends up being FMV 
 and doesnt utilize the prowess of the 360. All in all this doesnt stand out for anything graphics 
 seem too run of the mill for what the developers should have been working with this far into the 
 360 programming life cycle. Im sure they were going for a certain look for the game but came up 
 dull in the end. Landscapes seem devoid of effort (IE resistance hideout area) .
  
  Gameplay: The battle system is kind of fresh for a turn based RPG of this nature... the fighting 
 is in a grid that you move within depending on agility and how many squares your poke monsters 
 ( called golems) take up. The menus are fairly straight forward and easy to navigate. Whats nice 
 for beginners at RPGs is that you regain your HP every battle. Whats not so nice is you lose VP 
 every battle and eventually run out; effectively prohibiting the use of that character until you 
 find a recharge point (which at times are few and far between and at others are every other step) . 
 This brings the next point up Random battles much like the Final Fantasy series your battles 
 are random. Sometimes you fight every step; and sometime you can go a mile and not find a thing 
 to fight. Special killer moves are learned over time and act much like limit breaks from Final 
 Fantasy. Some super moves are nicely effective and others well kind of make you wonder why.
 
  
  Sound: I ended up leaving this game in Japanese voice over since the English version is HORRIBLE 
 very reminiscent of the original resident evil acting. Music is generic and you think that they 
 ripped it from a Final Fantasy game seriously Overall: GENERIC... they took every RPG and threw 
 it into a Japanese discussion group they ripped this from that game and that from this game and 
 plopped out enchanted arms. Not very inspiring I think the game was made as filler for a temporary 
 lack of viable RPGs for the 360. I would suggest you get Phantasy Star Universe over this or if 
 you havent already go get Oblivion But if you are of sexual orientation who prefers to date the 
 same gender then you finally get your dues in a game sadly its not the greatest game to get em 
 in. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nester33
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 17, 2006 10:42 am PT
Review:  The voice acting is painful at times, but overall it gives the familiar JRPG feel that we all know 
 an love. Since there is an option to switch back to the original Japanese voices with the English 
 text it can actually become immersive. The battle system is unique and provides some enjoyment. 
 The game does a good job of putting you into the story and make you want to keep playing to find 
 out what happens next. It is not exceptionally difficult. Golem hunting adds some replay value 
 to the game, and the characters are interesting. Though the story is a little melodramatic it still 
 is a decent plotline and can sometimes evoke some emotion from the player. Plus the flamboyantly 
 gay character keeps the player at least a little entertained during the slow start. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: travellinghoty
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 14, 2006 4:47 pm PT
Review:  This game was fun and exciting to play. I played it for 100 hrs easy. trying to max out all my golmes 
 and main charters. it was very in depth and the graphics are awsome. I defnite add to your collection. this 
 games is defintely one one the best role playing games ever that ive played. with a stoning layout. and 
 c indepth of the charaters right down to ther cloths and exprations. one game i hope that they make 
 another part or countuy the story some how. non stop action ,and fun. more and more fun everytime 
 you play it. it just sucks you and and you forget how long you've been playing it somtimes. and have 
 to check the counter. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ruckus6o6
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 13, 2006 5:42 pm PT
Review:  ehh i didnt really think enchanted arms was all that great. I didnt really like the combat system 
 in it. I thought the game was kinda boring too. I thought the voice overs were kinda cheezy too 
 and i usually dont care about sound in games. I recommend renteing the game first and see if you 
 like it or hate it. I also thoght the chacters were very boring. The battles are in a grid system 
 where you control your guy by clicking on him and choosing an option than attacking the enemy. 
 That was pretty boring, id rather have more of a line up style of fighting like final fantasy. 
 Im not comparing enchanted arms to Final fantasy either. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blacion
Rating: 6.2
Date: Nov 12, 2006 7:21 am PT
Review:  If you like a lot of fighting with a weak main character then this game is for you. Atsuma is irritating, 
 along with Karin throughout the entire game that I have played so far.
  
  The game itself is inconsistent with the audio, sometimes you can hear the characters sometimes 
 you cannot. But it is fun to play. It has piqued my curiosity, and I will continue....
  
  I have yet to find a really fun Japanese RPG game, this just didn't make it. Fghting a pizza isn't 
 fun, the characters cnnot get may spells or weapons, it is fun to fight-but when you are level 
 20 fighting a level 10 pack over and over it is lame. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dimsey
Rating: 8.1
Date: Nov 10, 2006 9:37 pm PT
Review:  I generally can't tolerate JRPGs.
  I don't know why. I played FF7 and liked well enough.
  Same with FF8 and 9. But by 10 it just grew stale.
  Perhaps it's my mistake for judging JRPGS 
 solely on FF games, but it's generally the only ones the local retailers get in.
  Well they got Enchanted Arms in and I was pretty pleased with it.
  
  I like the combat better 
 then FF games, though it's still turned based and menu driven, you at least have the ability to 
 move around some and attempt to avoid enemy attacks which adds a little more strategy to the game 
 besides water attacks hurt fire bad guys and so on.
  
  Won't dwell on the story, but I guess it's standard RPG fare. Guy save world.
  But it works.
 
  
  English voice acting will drill into your nerves within the first 30 minutes so I'd recommend turning 
 on the Japanese voices, otherwise the games fine.
  If your into JRPGs you'll likely find something to like here. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DS-man
Rating: 7.1
Date: Dec 31, 2006 4:50 pm PT
Review:  GOOD- New turn based stratagy gameplay works well; great graphics; brilliant voice acting and good 
 music; wicked specile effects; 40hours long with a great story
  
  BAD- the leveling up is abit confusing and takes awhile to understand; freakingly hard; envoriment 
 in the outside world is; nt good
  
  GAMEPLAY-
  Its your tipical turn based RPG but this time its based on grids and you can move your players 
 around, this introduces a stratic aproche as you can put your players behind another to protect 
 them, or clear them away from attacks, during the game you'll come across random battles and these 
 battles acure quite alot of times, but you can also increase the number or your party with over 
 100 golems to obtain and create
  
  GRAPHICS-
  The graphics in this game are great, specaly the specile effects coming from the attacks, they 
 look awesome, you can fast forward attacks but you'll miss these great speile effects, the characture 
 models are also great, but with some funny looking golems, the enviroments you come across when 
 going to other towns arnt realy good. other than that great
  
  SOUND-
  Gamespot says the sound is bad, i realy like it, it has realy good voice acting and music, though 
 the Voice acting can get alittle out of hand and annoying, speily when Astuma starts to shout. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gord_mose
Rating: 7.3
Date: Nov 7, 2006 3:09 pm PT
Review:  Enchanted Arms has a lot going for it. It is a Japanese RPG with turned based combat, colorful 
 and interesting characters, an intriguing story that really keeps you interested in it, and a pretty 
 flexible golem collection system.
  
  The positive is really the fact that the story is entertaining, the main character, Atsuma, is 
 funny and endearing, and the exploration elements, while not earth shattering, are enjoyable.
 
  
  The negative includes the combat system, which initially shows a zoomed out view of the battle 
 grid. You can hardly tell what's going on, the font is too small for my tired old eyes (I'm 45 
 - not old but not young either) , and the way combat is implemented just isn't fun. And since the 
 game uses random encounters you seem to fight endlessly, sometimes after just a few steps!
  
  Add to this the fact that the character screens have a deep menu system and the same too small 
 font and you find yourself with a game that has potential but misses the mark in too many important 
 ways.
  
  Enchanted Arms is a worthwhile Japanese RPG if you can forgive its combat and character development 
 system. For me the endless random encounters would have been okay if only the combat system was 
 reworked. As it stands I can't stomach it and won't be finishing the game.
  
  Gord_Mose 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Supakilla_2004
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jul 7, 2007 9:33 am PT
Review:  This game is very underrated. First of all the story line is not bad at all, very interesting. 
 Im not a person to care much for graphics, but I know for a fact that the graphics for this game 
 are not a 6. Im not sure if I am allowed to say this but I am starting to think that Gamespot has 
 something against Microsoft. Anyways, when I first played this game I hated the battle system but 
 you must give it a chance before you just say that the game sucks, which is what I am sure most 
 people did. The battle system is challenging and requires a lot of strategic thinking, but after 
 a while I am sure you will get used to it. The characters in the game are unique too, the game 
 also has funny dialog for an RPG. Although the game could have had more cutscenes and could have 
 been longer it is still a great game and I hope to see more types of games such as this, if you 
 enjoy RPGs like Final Fantasy then this game is perfect for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GangsterPop
Rating: 6.7
Date: Nov 4, 2006 2:57 pm PT
Review:  Okay, i have been looking for a new role playing game. I loved Oblivion, so i thought i would give 
 enchanted arms a try. When i first played it was great. i was having a great time. The flamboyant 
 Transvestite was a little odd at first, but it was hilarious. Once you start walking around, the 
 random battles make you want to hit yourself in the face with a hammer. The good thing about these 
 is the auto fight and fast forward button. I just hit them and let the computer do what it wants. 
 The graphics are so-so, but when they try, like the main cinematic scene with the first devil golem, 
 they are absolutely stunning. I was in awe when i first saw that scene. i wish they would have 
 put more use to the skill they had with the animations, though. I havnt finished and i dont think 
 i ever will, but it was fun for a couple of days for me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PAJ89
Rating: 7.7
Date: Nov 4, 2006 8:10 am PT
Review:  As the first turn-based RPG on the Xbox 360, FROM Software's Enchanted Arms certainly carries a 
 lot of expectation. Xbox 360 owners have been crying out for an RPG-fix, and now they have it. 
 But just how good is it? To be honest, it's your typical Japanese RPG, nothing more and nothing 
 less. However, this isn't as bad as it sounds. Enchanted Arms may not stick out as a particularly 
 special game, but it will provide a solid forty hours of play for anyone craving an RPG. The game 
 centers around Atsuma, a student studying at Enchant University. Enchanting is the only form of 
 magic that still exists in the world, as the rest of it was lost a thousand years ago, during a 
 great war. Atsuma is ridiculed and despised by most in the university, thanks to a special power 
 that rests in his right arm: the power to negate enchantments. As you would expect, this power 
 of Atsuma's will lead him on a quest to save the world from certain destruction.
  
  Enchanted Arms follows a very simple format. You go to one city, witness an event and then clear 
 a dungeon. Rinse, lather and repeat. Exploring the 3D environments is very easy to do. You move 
 Atsuma around with the left analog stick, control the camera with the right analog stick and use 
 the A button as an action button (for talking, pressing switches, etc) . Early in the game, you 
 will see a lot of tutorial conversations that are, quite frankly, insulting to the intelligence 
 of the gamer. You don't need separate tutorials for climbing a ladder or pressing a switch, when 
 both actions simply require you to press A when you get close enough to the object. Even after 
 the tutorials are finished, you get a prompt at the bottom of the screen whenever you walk near 
 a context sensitive object. Although these tutorials play into Atsuma's not-exactly-smart character, 
 one simple tutorial about context sensitive objects would have been a lot better. These simple 
 controls make navigation in the environment enjoyable, but the dungeon puzzles could have been 
 a little more taxing. You shouldn't find yourself getting stuck on any block-pushing or switch-pressing 
 puzzles, but despite that, the game still gives you a thorough tutorial of how to do things. As 
 well as the simple controls, the camera is also very efficient. You can swing it all the way around 
 Atsuma, and getting a bad camera angle is a rare occurrence.
  
  Perhaps the most unique thing about Enchanted Arms is its battle system. When you are running around 
 in a hostile environment, such as a dungeon, you will be thrust into random encounters (just like 
 those out of Final Fantasy) . However, you'll find something quite different from Final Fantasy 
 once the battle begins. The field consists of two four-by-three grids, one for your allies and 
 the other for your enemies. You can have a maximum of four party members on the field at a time. 
 The interesting thing about this battle system is that you decide the order in which your party 
 attacks. You can move party members around the grid and select from a variety of different techniques. 
 They all vary in power and range, which is very important to the tactical aspect of the game. Some 
 attacks only affect a single square in front of the attacker, while other attacks can affect a 
 sequence of squares horizontally or vertically. This forces you to think about where you position 
 your allies on the field. Positioning can also have defensive effects too. If an enemy uses an 
 attack that strikes vertically to hit two of your allies, the ally that is behind will take less 
 damage.
  
  The ability to customize your party is quite evident, thanks to the skill upgrades and golem system. 
 Every ally that participates in a battle gains skill points (SP) , a currency to upgrade skills. 
 You can spend it to boost statistics such as hit points (HP) and ether points (EP, Enchanted Arms' 
 equivalent of MP) , but you can also acquire new skills by spending SP. Once you have acquired a 
 skill (either by buying it at a shop or defeating a boss) , you can learn it by spending the required 
 amount of SP. Each ally has a limit of skills they can equip at any one time, so choosing them 
 wisely can make all the difference in battle. The other system that adds a great deal of customization 
 to the game are the golems. Golems are basically optional party members that you can recruit. Once 
 you have a core and the required items, you can synthesize a golem. Each one has different skills 
 and abilities, and there are over one-hundred of them to collect. It feels a little bit like Pokemon, 
 gotta catch 'em all , and there are some bizarre golems that you can recruit (for example, a pizza-faced 
 golem) . The appeal of collecting and powering up golems is undeniable, thanks to the range of different 
 golem types and abilities. It manages to add some extra hours of play into the game, without feeling 
 forced or gimmicky.
  
  Enchanted Arms' battle system doesn't do anything revolutionary, but it requires you to think at 
 least a little bit about what you are doing. Despite this, FROM has opted to make the battle system 
 extremely forgiving. Some of you hardcore RPG fans may not like this. First of all, each ally has 
 a vitality points (VP) score. As time in the battle goes on, and as your allies are attacked, they 
 will lose VP. Whenever an ally has at least 1VP, he or she will be fully regenerated after each 
 battle (but HP and EP will be reduced to one if VP falls to zero) . This would be an incentive to 
 finish battles quickly, were it not for the abundance of recharge points scattered around the environment. 
 These recharge points fully restore your HP, EP and VP. There is also one more thing that makes 
 this game terribly forgiving. If you manage to get all of your allies HP reduced to zero, the game 
 will allow you to retry the battle as many times as you want. These features drain most of the 
 challenge away from Enchanted Arms, although there are some particularly tough boss battles along 
 the way.
  
  Xbox Live play has been included in the game, taking the form of a golem battle mode. You can take 
 a team of golems from your single player game online, or use a pre-set team, to battle it out against 
 other gamers from around the world. There are player and ranked match modes, but there isn't a 
 whole lot more than this. It is difficult to incorporate online play into a traditional RPG such 
 as this, so we should be thankful that FROM Software even made the effort. Its interesting to see 
 what golems other people use, and because there are so many different golem combinations, there 
 is potential for a fantastic diversion from the single player game (as well as a reason to keep 
 on playing after you have completed the story) . Even so, it would have been nice if there was a 
 little more depth and polish to it, rather than just player and ranked matches.
  
  As far as achievements go, all of them are secret! You will have to play your way through the game 
 in order to find out what they are, as most of them are gained by reaching certain key events in 
 the story. There are a total of 25 different achievements, and like most other Xbox 360 games, 
 there is a total of 1000 GamerScore points on offer here.
  
  Enchanted Arms' visuals are a mixed bag. The environments tend to get more and more dull as the 
 game progresses, but the animations of special techniques and rare FMV footage is absolutely fantastic. 
 The most disappointing thing is how barren and lifeless some of the environments feel. Although 
 the beginning of the game, which takes place at the Enchant University, feels quite vibrant, it 
 tends to get worse after that. Even areas with a lot of NPCs don't manage to create a feeling of 
 life. Its not that they are terrible, but the environments don't catch your eye, which is disappointing 
 considering the Xbox 360's power. It seems more like a really good looking Xbox game than an Xbox 
 360 game. Enchanted Arms' also suffers from a problem Dead Rising has; difficult-to-read text on 
 an SDTV. Those of you lucky enough to have an HDTV can ignore this, but the rest of us who have 
 to make do with SDTV may need to sit a little closer to the screen. On the other hand, some of 
 the battle techniques have fantastically exaggerated visual effects, which are a joy to watch. 
 There is a lot of eye-candy on show here, which is very nice. However, it doesn't make up for the 
 average environments. Although there are few FMVs in the game, they are absolutely stunning. They 
 have definitely set a marker for future RPGs on the next-generation of consoles.
  
  The audio is possibly the worst part of Enchanted Arms, the voice acting in particular. The voices 
 will start to grate on you from very early on, and the sub-par script doesn't help things. Everything 
 sounds very forced, and the voice acting doesn't flow very well at all. Sudden voice pauses break 
 things up, and the actors just sound awkward. Thankfully, a Japanese voice acting option is included 
 in the game (although that further exposes the SDTV text problem) . The music is grand and orchestrated, 
 but it is completely underwhelming at the same time. None of the tunes are memorable, including 
 the battle theme, which is very disappointing because you'll be hearing it a lot. Its a shame, 
 because some of Enchanted Arms' more dramatic scenes could have been drastically improved with 
 some more memorable tunes.
  
  Although Enchanted Arms has some unique features, it is still a traditional Japanese RPG at heart. 
 You will enjoy the battle system and golem hunting, but probably despise the English voice acting 
 and average visuals. If you are not put off by the technical mediocrity and the ease of Enchanted 
 Arms, it is definitely worth a try. Its will last a good forty hours, maybe fifty if you are hunting 
 for all the golems, and it will certainly be money well spent. While Enchanted Arms isn't the hit 
 we were all hoping for, it certainly is a solid and fun RPG. Considering this is the first traditional 
 Japanese RPG on the Xbox 360, it was a very good effort. Hopefully, Enchanted Arms will pave the 
 way for the RPG genre to flourish on Microsoft's flagship console. However, the shortcomings of 
 Enchanted Arms means I would recommend a rental before going out and buying the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: COBRA_ALPHA22
Rating: 3.3
Date: Nov 1, 2006 11:42 am PT
Review:  I had to say that the game looked good when i bought it and then i started to play it WOW!!! Who 
 comes up with this, the first part (feeding the dog, lunch) WTF they could of done without, not 
 just those but many other parts of the game was retarded. The storyline really was bad, only thing 
 the game had going for it was the animations and some battle animations but that really doesn't 
 matter if the main part of the gameplay (fighting) is all screwed up. I have to say that fighting 
 on the grid seemed alright in the begining but after awhile it just got predictable. Most of those 
 golems i didn't use because i stuck with one that worked great and i didn't waste my time leveling 
 the other ones up, i tried many times but there attacks just had different names but the same effect. 
 I have to say this but they wasted their time with the multiplayer bit too. Stereo typing quite 
 a bit, making the gay guy sound very gay Yeah they should of just made a more straight forward 
 RPG. Better off playing Splinter Cell. I can't believe they compared any aspect of this game with 
 Final Fantasy, like sound who really cares if the game blows. Anyways UBI-SOFT Better Luck Next 
 Time 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sircalmar
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 1, 2006 12:04 am PT
Review:  First, let me clarifiy what a JRPG is compared to your traditional style CRPG. JRPG's tend to be 
 more linear, with a heavy storyline that involves a great evil from the past being reawoken and 
 you (the hero) has some power/connection that might be able to stop it. There tend to be more story 
 features and lots of conversations between your party members, and the voice acting is invariably 
 bad (sorry, but it's true) . There are normally tons of random encounters, and frequent boss's to 
 keep the story moving. The FInal Fantasy, ChronoCross, DragonWarrior and XenoSaga series are some 
 of the greatest games to touch American soil, but the all fall in that same cut.
  
  Enchanted Arms is a straightforward game, with a sometimes not so straightforward plot. As I aim 
 to keep my reviews spoiler free, there I won't mention which ones confused me, but at least the 
 game kept me thinking. The most interesting aspect most people seem to have found in this game 
 was the golem system, but in all honesty, the only times I used the golems was when I didn't have 
 a full party. I prefered using my human-type characters due to the fact that I could customize 
 them a lot more to my play style.
  
  Gameplay - Straightforward and simple. Run around on the main map and a nice tactical turn based 
 combat grid for battle.
  
  Graphics - During most of the game the graphics are amazing, but when you are selecting your party's 
 actions during combat it is VERY dissapointing. I frequently had a hard time figuring out who was 
 who and where exactly each of the enemies were.
  
  Sound - The ambient sounds and effects were great, but it is JRPG voice acting. Oddly though many 
 conversations started off voice acted but 2-3 lines in became only text on the sceen...
  
  Value - If you want hours of a JRPG, this is the most solid choice I have seen on the 360 yet. 
 A good game and good choice overall. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamerfreak667
Rating: 7.8
Date: Oct 31, 2006 3:35 pm PT
Review:  Ok so right off the bat we have to get the fact that this is a final fantasy -like japanese style 
 RPG out of the way so if you dont like those types of games stop reading NOW...
  
  Gameplay- The Gameplay was suprisingly good i liked the strategic element of sould i attack or 
 hide and power up aspect of the combat it really made the fighting alot deeper than a lot of RPG's 
 And the battle animations were at times quite cool...
  
  Graphics- The graphics were kind of dissapointing and didnt take advantage of the 360's hardware 
 at all this is definately the low point of the game although the character animations are nicely 
 done and the framerate is reletively smooth...
  
  Sound- Theres not really much to say about the sound the voice acting is nicely done (especially 
 Makoto [transvestite] ) and well thats about it...
  
  Value- Overall its a good RPG and a good game but doesnt quite make it to superstar status... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nonpareil
Rating: 6
Date: Oct 31, 2006 7:40 am PT
Review:  Enchanted Arms (EA) is the only RPG out for the x360 currently.
  
  The gameplay in EA is quite simple, there isn't a whole lot of challenge to the game, so it's great 
 for people whom are trying to get into the RPG genre. Those who are veterans of RPGs, this game 
 may leave you to desire more in the gameplay/combat area, but if you enjoy the storylines that 
 go along with games, you may want to stick around for this one.
  
  Graphics-wise, this game is great, especially if you have a HDTV to appreciate the extra high resolutions. 
 Their FMVs are a bit better than the FMVs found in Final Fantasy X. Another plus to the graphics 
 are the character portraits while conversing, they're well done and high quality. Unfortunately, 
 that's where all the good ends. Many of the combat actions, are the same for many enemies/golems, 
 and once you've seen the main character (can't remember his name, it's not that memorable of a 
 game) run about 3 steps, get ready to see him take those same 3 steps the rest of the game! Enviroments 
 between cities and areas are bland and quite boring.
  
  Sound's good, nothing memorable, hook up your surround sound for FMVs.
  
  Value? Play it once 
 to get the achivements and that'll be all this game is giving you, no reason to play again. 30 
 hours seems norm for most. Too bad 10 hours are spent with extremely repetitive dialogue, and another 
 10 are spent enjoying nice movie sequences, and I dont know where the other 10 come from :)
  
  If you have a 360, and want an RPG, or some gamerscore. Pick it up, play through it once, and 
 turn it in for credit. I'm sure you'll feel like you've played this before. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BLACKFIRE2142
Rating: 8.2
Date: Oct 30, 2006 5:31 am PT
Review:  Enchanted Arms has great graphics, a cool storyline and good gameplay. In this game, you assume 
 the role of Atsuma and his many friends he meets during his journey. In Enchanted Arms, you have 
 these pet-like creatures that travel and fight with you that you can acquire along the way. So, 
 thats pretty much the good stuff... now lets talk about the bad stuff.... The conversations, endless, 
 meaningless conversations that the characters have between eachother, and you find yourself smashing 
 down on the A button over and over until they are done. But, other than that, there aren't really 
 any glitches in this game, and for the few RPGs for the 360, its one of the best! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ocdog45
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 28, 2006 10:45 am PT
Review:  enchanted Arms bring a great story and creative gameplay to the nex gen table. story - young kid 
 atsuma goes to a school where enchanters learn to be... well enchanters. but theres something different 
 about him. he has a casting arm allowing to break magic seals. along with his friends he finds 
 him self in a predicament that leads him to chained events that lead him to destiny... play the 
 game to find out the rest no spoilers here.
  
  gameplay - this was my first time playing a combat system where you stand on a grid and choose 
 to move around for battling strategies. at first it was very un wanting. playing the game more 
 and more will do you good to get use to it and adjust. eventually you will like it. the typical 
 walking around and random fightings yes are there, but you have an auto selection to speed things 
 up. puzzles are not hard either, just searching for things and putting them in there place.
  
  overall - the game was one you need to play for a long time to apprenticed. your not going 
 to get all the achievements unless you play the game to its full extent. if your not an rpg fan 
 its going to be hard to get use to all the random fightings and constant walking around. but rpg 
 fans should enjoy this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: czarns69
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 30, 2006 9:58 am PT
Review:  For those Final Fantasy fans who were waiting for a fix on the X360, this is likely your game. 
 While I am not saying it is as good as Final Fantasy, cause its not, it is a solid game that maybe 
 most comparable to Final Fantasy 8. One thing it lacks is the wandering lands of the Final Fantasy 
 series combined with the cool side quests. The world kind of leads you in one direction and you 
 need to follow it. But, the battles, graphics, and actual gameplay are very equivalent to the Final 
 Fantasy series. Also, it is important to note that this game is slow moving at first. If you give 
 it time, you will find the pearls of the game. If you make your decision based on teh first 2-hours 
 of play, you will be selling yourself short. I think it is a good start to a the Enchanted Arms 
 series and look forward to seeing a fully developed series like Final Fantasy has become. Enjoy. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: uphaze
Rating: 8.2
Date: Oct 21, 2006 5:01 pm PT
Review:  i think this better then people think. first of all the game is visually stunning, without a doubt 
 the monsters (golems) are very well made and detailed. the old style japannese way of rpg are turn 
 based of course, but that doesnt mean that the game it self is oldschool, its just new school wit 
 old school ways. lol i am a very hardcore rpg fan. so putting down rpgs is very hard for me (on 
 less its suikoden 4 ) so i alwyas look at what the developers are going to do in an rpg rather 
 then waht they should of down. but overall i think this is a very good game thats hasnt have enough 
 credit . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HelsBane
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 19, 2006 10:17 am PT
Review:  For too long now these genres have been owned by Sony and have been the only reason for a player 
 like me to keep a Playstation 2 sitting in my electronics cabinet. While this one game wont convince 
 me to run down and trade in my ps2, if it is any sign of things to come I am very excited. The 
 story line is nothing revolutionary and has a similar feel to most RPGs of the past, If you have 
 any experience playing RPGs you will be able to see most of the twists and turns in the game but 
 it is still exciting and fun to play. The battle system feels like a combination of classic RPG 
 games with a small mix of a Final Fantasy Tactics RTS style battle. It is very fluent, easy to 
 learn, and in my opinion one of the best parts of the game. Another one of my favorite points in 
 the game is the speed in which you advance. The pace of the game is almost perfect there are few 
 points where you are aimlessly walking around or on long journeys from one place to another. The 
 developers did a great job of inserting things into the game to make the time between major plot 
 events enjoyable and go quickly. This is a great game for beginning RPG players and Hardcore Experienced 
 RPG gamers alike. I highly recommend It and am sure anyone with an interest in this genre will 
 enjoy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kingobaid
Rating: 8.2
Date: Oct 18, 2006 5:09 pm PT
Review:  this is a great game that has its ups and downs. if you like JRPG you will find this game very 
 addictting and emmensly fun. i guess that is one of the reasons that i liked this game. Golem collecting 
 adds a whole new layer of play as there are over 100 golems to collect! As for the difficulty, 
 it will be hard if you don't upgrade, but if you do it will be a breeze. It is a long game so i 
 hope you will make a committment for finishing it. Gets highly predictable at times, but overall 
 a great game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tonnercyn
Rating: 8.7
Date: Oct 18, 2006 4:32 pm PT
Review:  Ever since the original Xbox came out, I was waiting for something to be offered in the classic, 
 turn-based rpg style. When I heard about this title for the 360, my interest was immediately raised. 
 After having completed the game, I will say that it was everything I was looking for while not 
 necessarily being all that innovative or original.
  
  Yes, this is pretty much your typical JRPG. A lot of the same themes and characters you've seen 
 before are here in this one as well. Graphically, the game is quite nice to look at. I found some 
 of the FMV cutscenes to be specatacular, especially the early ones involving the devil golems. 
 The mechanic of having different golems to use does give it a bit of a Pokemon feel, but enough 
 of them look good that I can overlook that.
  
  In the end, the game is pretty much what I expected. That is both a plus and a minus. I would definitely 
 play a sequel, but in the meantime I am placing my hopes now on Lost Odyssey and Blue Dragon. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: volpexpress
Rating: 9.7
Date: Oct 15, 2006 9:39 pm PT
Review:  this game is the best rpg game ever. there is so much tht you can do in this game. many weapons 
 tht u can find or create to use, many moves to learn and use, even these things called golems tht 
 help u fight in battle. they are so awesome. in this game you and a bunch of other ppl r things 
 called enchanters tht have different elemental ablitlties. atsuma the main character is the fire 
 enchanter with his right arm being enchanted with this very powerful but mysterios power. the graphics 
 in his game are incredible and the sound effects r col too. so much you can do in this game. once 
 u play this game you will never want to put the controller down. if your in to rpg games than this 
 is a must get for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bulldog7
Rating: 7.3
Date: Oct 10, 2006 12:46 am PT
Review:  It's not an amazing game, but at the same time, I think this is the most underrated game I've seen 
 on xbox 360 so far. Some of the reviews I've read so far are so erroneous in their depiction of 
 the game, I have a hard time believing the reviewer is talking about the same game I played. In 
 fact, I suspect if the game was kept the same, and giving a different title like: Final Fantasy: 
 Enchanted Arm, the score would be raised by 1or 2 points (out of 10) on many websites. All that 
 said, if you haven't read gamespot's review, you should, it's pretty well written, especially the 
 beginning comments about the good and bad summaries of the game.
  
  Gameplay: hey, it's a japanese RPG, what do you expect? it is what it is, and actually a better 
 fighting system than many others. But i have to say, I'm a bit disappointed there wasn't more magic 
 in the game, in the traditional sense. This is a minor complaint, and mainly having to do with 
 aesthetics than substance. Many sites complain that the gameplay is too simple or random . I have 
 to say that either of those complaints shows only that the reviewer either didn't spend enough 
 time with the game, or else doesn't know how to read the manual and read the dialogue at the beginning 
 of the game explaining the entire fighting system. It's not as simple as it may look, and it is 
 anything but random. Graphics: I disagree with many sites. Some report this game having terrible 
 graphics or graphics that look like ps2. Wrong! Hey, the graphics aren't PG3, or Oblivion, but 
 they are way better than ps2 or xbox 1 graphics, that's for sure. And some of the cutscenes are 
 so gorgeous, they look like Final Fantasy movie quality.
  
  Value: Hmm.. tough call. Took me 54 hours to beat the game. I'd say one can pass it in 35 hours 
 no problem. I took my time. And it probably has a bit of replay value, or value to try and find 
 all the Golems and beat the Holy Beast Shrine. My suggestion is to rent the game and keep it for 
 2-3 weeks. It might end up costing you like $20-25 to rent, but that's not too bad. Better than 
 paying $60, then trying to resell it for $20.
  
  My biggest complaint? the story is not very good. It has a great premiss, but I don't think it 
 gets executed very well. My second biggest complaint is the very lame lead character. He's an idiot 
 and not very likable.
  
  Overall, it's a pretty decent game. Better than most are making it out to be. It's not amazing, 
 nothing about it is excellent, but hey, it fills a big gaping hole in the 360 library. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheGodfatherUk
Rating: 8.2
Date: Oct 9, 2006 7:26 am PT
Review:  well i must say, its a good day, keeps you hooked for quite a while, story plot is good too, graphics 
 are well impressive from my point of view, especially the cut scenes.
  
  ADVICE: watch the cutscenes, keeps your aims of the plot and the colours of the characters make 
 up for everything.
  
  Its took me a whole week to play and complete this game, bearing in mind i played it like 7 hours 
 straight each day i found it that good.
  
  Summary:
  
  Worth investing into , if you are into these types of games, you must buy into it.
  
  Pros:
 
  
  story
  colours of characters
  some super uber cool moves
  
  Cons
  you seem to walk into a battle like every 25 seconds, can get annoying.
  Camera angle can sometimes 
 be dodgy
  The gay like voice of that Mokata person.. drives you insane at the start lol. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BAMFactor
Rating: 9.7
Date: Oct 8, 2006 3:58 pm PT
Review:  I've played over 100 hours on this game and it just keeps getting better. This is a traditional 
 turn based RPG. But it has unique features that make it unlike other traditional turn based RPGs.
 
  
  The storyline is compelling. It may take you an hour or so to get hooked, but then the more you 
 play the more hooked you will be. I've had many all-nighters playing this game because I couldn't 
 stop. Well written, exciting, and emotionally compelling story. I won't give any more details than 
 that because I don't want to be a spoiler.
  
  You could play this game for 50 hours, straight storyline, minimal levelling up, no sidequests 
 or mini games, and be done. Or, you can do like I'm doing, do all the sidequests and mini games 
 and level up strong and get over 100 hours of enjoyment out of it. And then, even after you're 
 done, you can continue to play the game on Live in online multiplayer battles. This game is an 
 incredible value for the hours of gameplay you get for the price.
  
  The best thing about this game is it's like a cross between a really great Final Fantasy game (turn 
 based RPG with great storyline) and really great Pokemon game (gotta collect em all!) . There are 
 many, many golems in the game you can collect and pick and choose which ones to use in your party 
 (or you can just use the 4 human characters) . You can do mad levelling on them and then take them 
 onto Live to battle your friends. They are all unique in appearance and abilities.
  
  There are minigames, including an interactive Casino and sidequests that earn you special golems 
 and weapons. So much to do and find!
  
  The only complaint I have about this game is that the random battles are too frequent. It's overkill, 
 in my opinion. Later in the game you can buy an ability that allows you to avoid all random battles. 
 But otherwise they get tedious. You can escape any non boss battle but it lowers your stats a bit.
 
  
  This is one of the best RPGs ever and one of the best Xbox 360 games out so far of any genre. Do 
 not miss this treasure! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AzelKosMos
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 2, 2008 1:29 pm PT
Review:  Enchanted Arms [EA] is From Software's latest outing into the RPG genre. Considering it's last 
 two attempts became Eternal Ring and Kings field, you would be right to be approahing this game 
 with some reservations. However, If truth be told, [EA] is far from an Eternal Ring. Despite the 
 slightly rushed feel, it surprised me greatly. Being the first RPG in a long time that i really 
 felt immersed in.
  
  The game is rather unique in it's ingredients. The characters (although some pretty bad cliche's) 
 are all fairly surreal in a Shaow Hearts sense. The battle system is a grid turn based system reminiscent 
 of Koudelka. The Golems your party collects during it's travels for battle are quite a reminder 
 of pokemon. And lastly all the environments and character designs smack the words Final Fantasy 
 all over. Yet not once do any of them feel like they clash, they merge together for a real treat.
 
  
  The game begins in the City of Yokohama. You are soon introduced to three very important characters. 
 You control Atsuma a (hopelessly failing) student at Enchant university. Atsuma is a hot headed 
 moron, with a unique ultra powerful right arm. Soon into the game Atsuma's two best friends are 
 also revealed to you. Toya, the intelligent, good looking, calm, well mannered guy that every one 
 has met and generally despises. And Makoto, a transvestite in love with Toya who makes great "love 
 lunch" specials.
  
  The interaction between these characters and their obviously diverse personalitys makes for some 
 pretty amusing confrontations. From the start it should be clear that while the story is serious, 
 above all the game is here to entertain.
  
  Pretty soon you will learn that over 1000 years ago there was a golem war. During this war, 3 ultra 
 powerful golems were created called "Devil Golems", legend has it that these 3 golems were sealed 
 in each of the 3 largest cities in Atsumas world. Yokohama, London and Kyoto. So of course within 
 an hour or two of playing Atsuma sets one loose in Yokohama city, the seductivly destructive Queen 
 of Ice. From that moment everything goes from bad to worse for Atsuma, continuing for over 50 hours.
 
  
  Other characters join Atsuma on his non stop entertaining journey, Karin a rather quick to anger, 
 quick to beat up Atsuma, girl from London city. Her companion Raigar, who smashes through walls 
 like thay are made of wet paper. and finally Yuki the obligratory underage female that dresses 
 like a cowgirl.
  
  Though Atsuma's journey you will travel from city, to city by running though dungeuns in a third 
 person perspective, standard for alot of RPG's these days. The game uses random encounters much 
 like the Final Fantasy series have. Although if you are in an area with incredibly weak enemies 
 the encounter rate will decrease thankfully.
  
  The battle system, the core to an RPG as most of the game will be spent using it. The battles in 
 [EA] take place in a 6x4 grid. This is then split into two halves. One half that can only be used 
 by your four character party. And one half for the enemie units to use. The system is turn based 
 in which your party will generally attack first. Each character can equip up to 5 attack skills 
 to use in battle, as well as 5 passive support skills. The diversity of the skills to use is rather 
 large, and alot of time will be spent getting the right balance to use for your party. As elements 
 and range are key to victory, so obviously alot of strategy is involved.
  
  Throughout the game there are over 100 golems to collect to use in battle along with the other 
 four party members. These golems must be constructed from cores using gems found all over the world 
 before they can be used. The golem cores are often found in chests, gained after boss fights, and 
 some are even in golems waiting in dungeuns for you to defeat them. all in all collecting every 
 single golem in the game will take some time.
  
  After each battle is finished the standard exp and money (TP) is granted to your characters. However 
 there is a unique twist to the rewards. As you are also granted Skill Points. SP are used for two 
 things. The first is to buy skills listed to use in battle (note: golems can not learn new skills 
 other then what they start with) . And secondly you can individually increase your character statistics 
 for a certain amount, this includes HP, attack, defense, ranged and support. Making it possible 
 to make your characters alot stronger other then by just going up levels.
  
  The visuals in [EA] 's are just breath taking in some areas. Yet bitterly dissapointing in others. 
 The environments and FMV's are up to next gen quality. The water effects are stunning, the detail 
 on marshland, trees and glades is obviously pain staking. Yet the character models (especially 
 in conversations) don't hold up to what the xbox 360 is capable of. With cut off lines, and a lack 
 of detail. It makes the overall outcome of the game feel very rushed. Though at the same time it 
 is only a small point.
  
  The music in [EA] fits it perfectly. Very atmospheric. However none of it stands out, even now 
 I can't remember the battle music after 100 hours of playing through the game. But i have no complaints 
 either.
  Ubisoft wisely chose to release [EA] with a dual soundtrack of both the original Japanese vocal 
 track and the English dub. I played through using only the English cast, and although i have heard 
 many complaints about it, i personally loved the dub. Each character fitted perfectly, and the 
 interaction between them felt believable.
  
  Although [EA] is very linear there is still plenty to do. There is a large secret dungeun as well 
 as four mini shrines with some very hard enemies in to finish. As well as the many golems to aquire, 
 the skills to gain, plenty of mini games in the London city casino (including a battle arena. And 
 there is also an online battle mode over Xbox live in which to face off using the golems you have 
 powered up.
  
  I went into this game with high hopes for the first Xbox360 JRPG. And not once through the quest 
 was i dissapointed. The key seller is the great dialoge and character interaction mixed with an 
 entertaining strategic battle system. This one is a keeper. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: webby1
Rating: 7.8
Date: Oct 7, 2006 12:33 pm PT
Review:  Enchanted Arms takes some chances, some of which I think will have hurt it. The game has a unique 
 battle system which works well and adds more strategy into the fights. It is basically a chess 
 board split in half, your guys on one side the enemy on the other. Sounds simple yea? Well it is 
 to get started. Just like any other game you get a lot more stuff to do this helps you create good 
 combos and set up a good strategy. For most of the weaker enemies you wont really need to try that 
 hard just quickly choosing your move and killing them quite easy, but there isnt that many of these 
 which is pretty good. There is however a large amount of random battles which can also work for 
 and against the game.
  
  The game works fairly differently to other RPG's after each fight even if one of your characters 
 died or had say for example 10 HP once the fight is finished they return to full life again. Yea 
 this might sound easy but you also have something called VP. You run out of VP just from taking 
 hits (not that quickly) so when your VP finally gets to 0 that character then only has 1 HP. It 
 might sound kinda stupid but it does work quite well and it is something different to what most 
 games offer.
  
  In Enchanted Arms you take the role of Atsuma a young teen who is born with a special arm howver 
 he doesnt realise what power he has. That is until all the golems on the earth including the Devil 
 Golems are released and he must save his friend who he thinks he has almost lost. A 1000 years 
 before Enchanted Arms is set there was the Golem War where almost all the world was destoryed, 
 it was humans who created these golems as slaves until everything backfired. Devil Golems were 
 trapped away in sealed locations hoping that they would never attack the world again. However people 
 got hungry for power and the Devil Golems were released. You play through various locations such 
 as Yokahoma, London, Kyoto all hoping to stop the Devil Golems and save your friend.
  
  The first time you play this game you may not get the best impression. Not that much to do and 
 it can be quite boring. Even some people on the forums are complaining about one of the characters 
 Makoto, which could be understood as he can be quite annoying but you dont even see him for a long 
 time after the first hour or so. But the game does offer some personality in all the characters 
 and people you will meet on your journey, so your favorite character could be someone totally different 
 to say your friends.
  
  Enchanted Arms could really only be appriciated by JRPG fans and its probably not the best game 
 to start you on RPGs. But it does give you a lot of fighting and a pretty big area to explore, 
 aswell as upgrades to characters. You can control golems too to fight in your party, so you can 
 choose the right element or even one that just looks cool to help you. There are over 100 different 
 golems for you to control.
  
  You can pretty much save the game anywhere except for in battles and the game took me just over 
 40 hours but to get everything and my first play through. The sequences in the game look amazing 
 and they have done a terrific job on them, the in game graphics could have been better but theres 
 nothing really bad about them.
  
  Overall Enchanted Arms is a good game and you should give it a try especially after a few hours 
 of playing you can become quite easily addicted, well its just you want to find out what happens 
 in the story. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bleigh316
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 6, 2006 8:37 pm PT
Review:  The one genre that the original Xbox and the Xbox 360 have been lacking has been the traditional 
 JRPG, basically think the Final Fantasy games. The annoucement of two titles from Mistwalker Studios, 
 created by the founder of the original Final Fantasy, provided hope for JRPG fans that owned an 
 Xbox 360. To help tide them over until those two titles came out, From Software and Ubisoft have, 
 as they billed it, One of the first true next-gen role playing adventures . That statement is true 
 as Enchanted Arms is one of the first next gen role playing games, second actually behind Elder 
 Scrolls: Oblivion, it just unfortunate that Enchanted Arms is merely an okay RPG, nothing great 
 but nothing terrible. Still, if you own an Xbox 360 and want to play a traditional JRPG, Enchanted 
 Arms will fit the bill.
  
  Enchanted Arms begins a little slowly, as you control male lead, Atsuma, while he is in school 
 with his friends, Toya and Makoto, at Enchant University, learning about enchant magic. While attending 
 a local festival, a series of events kick off that set the story in motion. Along the way, you'll 
 meet up with 3 other people who make up your main party throughout the game. You also have the 
 opportunity to fight and earn more teammates, in the form of Golems, basically the world's magical 
 robots. There are over 100 golems in the game for you to find, so you can build your party however 
 you like.
  
  The bulk of the gameplay, like any RPG, is the battle system. The battle system in Enchanted Arms 
 is reminiscent of turn based strategy RPGs like Final Fantasy Tactics or Disgaea, but it operates 
 a little differently. The battles are random, like in Final Fantasy, but the battlefield is divided 
 into a 6 horizantal x 4 vertical row grid field, divided across the middle so the enemies have 
 3horizantal rows and you have the other 3 rows. The battles play out simply enough, your turn then 
 the enemies turn. You don't have to worry about speed ratings or any of that. Movement and attacks 
 on the grid are handled just like in strategy RPGs. One attack may hit 3 squares in front of you, 
 while another may hit just one, or the two in front of you. Other range based ones hit 2, 3, or 
 even 4 rows in front of your character. Sadly there is no option for a normal attack, but each 
 character does have a basic attack, along with supporting abilities, like healing and rez'ing spells, 
 along with other more powerful abilities. Each of your 4 main party members also have access to 
 super powerful EX attacks, from damage attacks to supporting moves. The beauty of the battle system 
 though, is that each of your characters, as well as the golems, have a VP meter that slowly drains 
 after every battle. And so long as your characters have at least 1 VP point left, every battle 
 you enter you start at full health. It does make the game a little easier, but it is refreshing 
 to play an RPG when you don't have to worry about how much health your characters have. Add to 
 that the game has a built-in save anywhere system, so thankfully you don't have to worry about 
 finding a save point if you have to stop playing.
  
  While it is a next gen title, the graphics of Enchanted Arms are pretty good, but not great. A 
 number of the environments do look very good. Unfortunately you don't get to explore the world 
 too much b/c the paths you follow are linear and keep you moving forward. The character models 
 are good. The effects and spells in battle also look good.
  
  As for the sound, well it does not fair quite as well. The music isn't terrible, but it is not 
 very original, seeing as the battle music and victory theme do bare a striking resemblance to the 
 battle and victory themes of the Final Fantasy games. But the big issue with the sound is the voice 
 acting. While it did not bother me that much, plenty of other people have a different opinion. 
 Luckily there is an option to listen to the Japanese voice actors with English subtitles if you 
 so choose.
  
  Enchanted Arms does clock in at a respectable 40-ish hours, about 42 hours for my save. There are 
 not that many side quests, but there are a couple (tracking down the God weapons, unlocking the 
 Holy Beast Shrine, not to mention the Casino and getting all the golems) . The plot isn't bad, but 
 it is fairly cliched. Even cliched stories can still be enjoyable. And like I mentioned in another 
 of my reviews, the plots of RPGs are just like books.
  
  Overall Enchanted Arms is a pretty good entry for the Xbox 360. It isn't the best JRPG but it isn't 
 the worst. It's good while it lasts but it doesn't quite have the staying power of the better RPGs. 
 Still, if you have an Xbox 360 and want a JRPG, Enchanted Arms is a fine title to try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Andrew020889
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 5, 2006 8:12 pm PT
Review:  I just beat the game and it truly blew me away. I am a big fan of RPG's. This game reminded me 
 of Final Fantasy X (it wasnt as good but still great) . The gameplay is like final fantasy x. You 
 basically go town to town and your fighting bosses, having random battles, and doing chores for 
 people. The fighting system was really fun. It made you give more thought to what moves you did. 
 Overall the gameplay really impressed me. The graphics were pretty good. There were times when 
 they werent the best but for the most part they were good. They aren't the best I've seen but they 
 were fine with me.
  The sound and voice overs are probably the worst part of this game, and its not even that bad. 
 The voice overs aren't as bad as everyone says. Each voice is decent, and the music is very typical. 
 It sounds like music from most games. To me if the game has a good story and gameplay then sound 
 and voice overs aren't going to ruin the game for me. This game is definitely worth your money. 
 It is a long and memorable game. It took me 49 hours to beat this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Old_Gooseberry
Rating: 6.1
Date: Oct 4, 2006 8:44 pm PT
Review:  I'm rating this game low since its not next gen quality, and I don't want to mislead anyone. This 
 is a very average game, and most people won't play it past 5-10 hrs.
  
  Enchanted Arms took me around 50 hrs to finally finish this game. I dont have too many positive 
 feelings about this game since it just felt like a poor copy of Final Fantasy 8 or X. It doesnt 
 come close FF in either sound, gameplay or story quality. The storyline was decent enough, but 
 if they had shortened the main story instead of dragging it out so long  and maybe added some 
 other plots to keep your interest, maybe things would have stayed less dull. But when you play 
 through this, the story feels like they simply stole a bunch of ideas from other people than tried 
 to piece it together to make the game a certain length. I did think the ending was better than 
 I thought it would be. The end of the game gave a decent understanding of what happened later on.
 
  
  This games difficulty is pretty well balanced throughout the game. However, after the Ice Queen 
 battle, you face several more consecutive battles one after another. If you arent strong enough 
 with well set up characters with enough items, youll likely have to load a game and spend a long 
 time redoing it all over again. Its frustrating when you just want the game to end smoothly and 
 you end up having to grind out 10 lvls more so you can finish the game.
  
  They made so many terrible characters here. Their great idea of a good story was to give you two 
 of the most annoying female companions possible, that treat you like crap and are constantly fighting 
 with you and each other. You cant believe anything they say since these characters personalities 
 are so unstable, no real person jerks people around like that. It would have been better to play 
 as the Ice Queen and kill all these annoying people instead.
  
  Enchanted Arms has some of the worst voice acting possible for almost every character in the game. 
 The only great voice work was the Ice Queen. Makato and Toya were gay and you had to put up with 
 them for 10 hours at the start of the game, than you get stuck with slightly less annoying, but 
 dull companions for the rest of the game. The characters werent as terrible as in Sudeki, but 
 reminded me of that games completely awful voices.
  
  Music in the game is hardly existent. Ive played bad games before that had great music, and it 
 can completely change your mood about the game. In a game with such boring scenery and gameplay, 
 they could have added some music.
  
  If X360 did have more RPG choices, I doubt anyone would have any reason to play this. Combat is 
 so boring, and copying Final Fantasys random combat is annoying enough in FF. The grid combat 
 gave something to think about in tougher battles, but it never made any sense why you couldnt 
 cross the line and fight realistically. In 99% of the battles, youll just hit Auto Battle so you 
 can be done with it as fast as possible. The achievements were actually nicely balanced, and you 
 just had to finish the game to unlock them all, instead of doing some ridicules things like half 
 the games out there.
  
  Its hard to give this game much credit for its graphics since you cant travel anywhere to get 
 a better look at them. Your stuck on a straight path in every place your in. You cant explore 
 anywhere, this is boring, it makes the game easier but its terrible.
  
  The developers of Enchanted Arms tried to do a quick copy of Final Fantasy. They shouldnt try 
 this again, because they have failed; and expecting anything to good to come from copying wont 
 happen. Microsoft should be embarassed to have this on their next gen system. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: StuBHoney
Rating: 7.1
Date: Oct 4, 2006 4:57 pm PT
Review:  If you are not a fan of rpgs don't play. If you have only played top notch rpgs then you are better 
 off not playing. It is a fun rpg. The story is intresting if cliche. The battle systems works, 
 and their is a little humor their. Golem collecting is a fun past time. It adds up to fun rpg, 
 but just not exceptional in anyway. I have played worse. Played better. If you rather play rpg 
 than other genre then it is worth while. Yes there are flaws. Is a average rgp more fun then a 
 excellent action game? For me yes, but for you? That's for you to decide. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sixx6
Rating: 7.6
Date: Oct 3, 2006 12:11 am PT
Review:  i really thought this game had alot going for it in the beginning, but to easy to top out your 
 people and not alot to change in the game . no armor ,no way to make yourself different from everyone 
 else on-line . and very easy to find everything in the game in short nothing ground breaking about 
 the game or to set it apart from alot of the rpgs out in the market today , but a good start for 
 the xbox 360. the game needs to be alot longer and be more customizable to set it apart from other 
 rpgs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bigshot_Drum
Rating: 6.4
Date: Oct 2, 2006 3:15 pm PT
Review:  Enchanted Arms first caught my eye because of the preview I d/l from XBL. It looked like Microsoft 
 was finally getting some decent RPG's under it's belt. I was wrong. I bought EA the day it came 
 out and played it for about 4 hours straight. After spending that much time on a game and only 
 being amazed by one cinematic sequence, i was sadly shocked. Between the overly flamboyent sax 
 player and Atsuma's forceful rouge charisma, i was more than dissapointed. The battle system is 
 new, yes... but that deffinitly doesn't make it good. After awhile I found myself missing the classic 
 Attack, Use, Magic options that I have become accustomed to. And to make matters worse, the recharge 
 stations where you replenish your overall stats were very few and far between which causes you 
 to switch to charaters you might not have wanted to play. The graphics in the game were very good, 
 but this goes to show you that just because the game looks good, it doesn't mean that it IS good. 
 Overall I must say I was dissapointed in EA. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Grant_Guy
Rating: 9.2
Date: Oct 2, 2006 12:58 pm PT
Review:  The Good:
  -Great unique combat system
  -Long and intresting story
  -Over 100 Charaecters to collect
  -Nice looking enviorments
  
  The Bad:
  -English voice 
 acting is very annoying
  -Charaecter animations look pretty bad
  -Camera angles for battles are pretty bad
  
  Gameplay 10/10
  
  One of the best combat systems 
 i've ever seen in a role-playing game. Here is the basics on what it is like: you (atsuma) and 3 
 other charaecters are on a 6X4 grid and each attack has a certain range it can go to so you have 
 to postion your self so that you can hit the enemy.
  
  Graphics 8/10
  
  They look very flashy and nice good but in some of the cut-scenes the charaecters look like something 
 from an original xbox game. Great looking pre-renderd cut-scenes
  
  Sound 6/10
  
  Let me put it this way the ENGLISH VOICE ACTING SUCKS!!! Now that i got that over with the games 
 music is good and you even have a choice to change the charaecters so they speak in Japanease.
 
  
  Value 10/10
  
  Very, very long game and not to mention there is xbox live support too such as; golem battles. 
 The achievements are fun to get too because they force you to go through the whole game.
  
  Tilt 10/10
  
  I recomend getting this game if you like role-playing games.
  
  BUY OR RENT?
 
  
  If you are a die-hard RPG fan then get it, it is a good addition to your collection. Other than 
 that i would rent it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eurochamps2004
Rating: 5.8
Date: Oct 1, 2006 10:36 am PT
Review:  pros-
  good graphics
  good writing
  streamilined battles
  auto fight feature and fast foward feature
  long game
  golem collecting is fun
  boss fights 
 are cool
  first japanese rpg on the 360
  cons-
  your led along by an ivisible rope WAY to linear
  horrible voice acting especially for the main 
 character
  no replay vaue watsoever
  to many random battles way to many random battles
  gets stale before u hit the 30 hour mark
  
  final- i was really hoping for a good japanese 
 rpg on the 360. you know best of both worlds have a really good rpg to go with western 360 and 
 mass effect. maybe blue dragon will be better 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tinty69
Rating: 8.9
Date: Sep 28, 2006 1:40 pm PT
Review:  I seriously love a good old turn base Rpg. When I heard about this game for 360, I was going to 
 get this game regardless of what the reviews said. Some of the reviews did discourage me, but I 
 went with my instinct and Im so glad I did. Its like the old Final Fantasy games I use to enjoy, 
 but with way better graphics! The game is very, very deep. If your like me, you can easily spend 
 a solid 60 hours with this game. I got all the characters except one! ( and that sucks by the way!) 
 Gameplay is solid, but for people who are not fans of the genre and dont like leveling up your 
 characters, get something else. This game is all about your stats! I spent hours leveling up my 
 characters. I really feel I got my moneys worth on this one. Oh, I think thiers a total of 105 
 playable characters. That is the best part of the game. I loved the gotta catch em all feel. Not 
 very many games have such a roster in this genre like this game. Overall I really enjoyed this 
 game. The graphics were the best Ive seen in a turn based RPG. Solid Gameplay, but could be repetitive 
 to some. The sound fits the game, but the lip movement is not on with the voice. I recommend you 
 buy this game and keep the Japanese ports coming! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fmobliv06
Rating: 8.4
Date: Sep 27, 2006 3:24 pm PT
Review:  Enchanted Arms is a worthy first JRPG for the 360. The graphics are good, and even better during 
 the cutscenes. The CG cutscenes are amazing and full of action. Overall, this is a very good game 
 graphically.
  The sound is a mixed bag. Music is great, but character voice overs range from good to annoying. 
 The story is good and manages to pull all of the action into a cohesive whole, although it's no 
 Final Fantasy. Overall, this game is good, but its quality is elevated more by the battle system, 
 which places a large emphasis on positioning your characters properly. The attacks are cool looking, 
 and while I haven't tried it yet, the onine battle mode sounds like a blast. Also adding to the 
 game's value is the golem-creation system. Golems are cool and fun to make and use, but they can't 
 learn new abilities, limiting their use somewhat. Finally, although I haven't heard it mentioned 
 much, this game also boasts a pretty good character stat customization system. Using points earned 
 in battle, players can increase character's stats (or paramaters as the game calls them) to his/her 
 liking. I have also had success in customizing a few of my golem's stats, letting them stay up 
 to par with my party members. If you don't mind the golems not learning new skills, you could effictively 
 keep the same golems in your party throughout the game. Overall, Enchanted Arms gets an 8.5/10. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gSp0t0210
Rating: 7.3
Date: Sep 27, 2006 12:14 pm PT
Review:  Well, Microsoft finally got a true RPG out for one of its systems, and in doing so, have joined 
 the 1990's in their game-library diversity. Enchanted Arms is now here to deliver that experience 
 to the thousands of deprived XBOX RPG owners. However, despite all this, Enchanted Arms delivers 
 a lackluster performance in most categories, and left me with nothing more than a small sense of 
 gratification after completing it. 'Arms' is nothing more than a presentation of flashy-sorts, 
 wrapped around a core game with a few innovative features, and a story that easily forgettable 
 days after completion.
  
  First off, let me tell you, that the story for Enchanted Arms is primarily in the actual title 
 of the game. You follow the exploits of the protagonist, Atsuma, as he is falling asleep during 
 his lecture about the old 'Golem Wars' and their ramifications. After a short tutorial and more 
 story, he decides he wants to skip classes at Enchanted University in Yokohama (located adjacent 
 to London, of course. Didn't you know that?) After a few twists and turns, he and his friends, 
 Toya and Makoto -- (yes, he's the very uh, flamboyant one in the game? If you've never played a 
 'true-Japanese RPG before, expect one of these in each game.) -- find themselves underground where 
 the old devil golem of the city has been kept away. Atsuma's 'arm' decides it wants to awaken the 
 devil golem, and so ensues your first major question of the game. What is it with his arm? After 
 your encounter, you find yourself alone, Makoto has appeared to die, and Toya has been taken prisoner 
 with the Ice Queen Devil Golem . So, now the main goal of the story has turned into saving Toya 
 at any cost. Along the way you meet up with your companions in various ways. But you won't find 
 yourself using them as much as you'd think. The game gets its fun from the ability to use Golems 
 in battle. Think Pokemon for older audiences. There are two ways of acquiring them: through battle 
 on the field, or by buying core materials . Either way, you're faced with the job of collecting 
 the golems for use in your own battles. Each golem has ups and downs. Some are over the top amazingly 
 powerful, others are not even worth the TB (tablets = money) that you invest into them. Strengths 
 and weaknesses are just like the Pokemon standard, with the advent of different elements. Unforunately, 
 this is very flawed, as the elements cancel out each other. since when was fire strong against 
 water? Plant strong against Wind? Wind strong against plant? Granted, they took the extra step 
 in doing this, but why do it only half way?
  
  Speaking of battles, the system works well enough to keep me re-thinking my actions. Grid-based, 
 turned-based action was nothing new to me, but even if it was, the system was easy to get into 
 and easy to master. After each battle is where you would collect EXP and money, SP (to level up 
 your individual skills) and see how much VP you lost. VP stood for Vitality Points , which was 
 how long your golems and players could be in battle. When your VP gets to 0, your golems/people 
 start the battle with 1 hp and 1 ep. I don't want to bore you with stuff you'll learn OVER AND 
 OVER again in the game, but suffice to say, the battle system is probably the most redeeming factor 
 of this game.
  
  A little tidbit about the sound. The music is decent, but the battle music is very annoying after 
 you battle for so long. I found myself turning on my custom soundtracks and listening to something 
 more enjoyable. The dialogue, was down-right horrid. Albit for a few snippits of funnies near the 
 end of the game, the rest of the voice-acting needed help, BADLY. Atsuma's voice actor needed a 
 little more emotion in it, and since you hear his voice the most, it gets annoying. Half-way through 
 the game, I found myself reading the text and just clicking off the voice acting so I didn't have 
 to hear it.
  
  Overall, the game does have bunch wrong with it, and the story isn't something I will remember 
 after writing this (and if you've read my reviews, story is what I look for most often) . Otherwise, 
 this game did have it's thrills for 30+ hours. If you're an xbox owner who's getting sick of Star 
 Wars KOTOR and Fable, give this a try. As the first installment of many next gen TRUE RPG's coming 
 out within the next year, it's a small stepping stone. Here's hoping the future hits us with many 
 boulders that are deemed unmountable. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mass3ff3Ct
Rating: 8.6
Date: Sep 26, 2006 4:48 pm PT
Review:  It was the first JRPG for the 360 and it was pretty good. the gameplay is just right, and something 
 new. As someone already said that if you like anime inspiring characters and love deep story lines 
 with a mystery to it, then this is your game. Gameplay is so simple that even a 7 year old would 
 understand, and the graphics are shall I say amazing. If you are into Final Fantasy like storylines, 
 then what are you waiting for this is your game. BUY IT! RENT IT! Do whatever but just take note 
 if your any of the above that this is your game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: twinsnakes007
Rating: 9.4
Date: Sep 25, 2006 5:46 pm PT
Review:  EM left me with mixed reactions. I'm still not done with the game, not even close to done infact, 
 but I feel i've played enough to write a review for it. The game itself has it's good parts and 
 bad parts. First the good. The story is great! It's what you would expect from a Japanese RPG. 
 The graphics, especially during CG scenes, are amazing. It just feels great playing a JRPG on a 
 next gen system with next gen system. Next, most of the characters (except a few....) are very 
 interesting and you'll quickly find some favorite character of some sort. Third, the golem system 
 is very innovative and very cool. You'll find yourself wanting newer and better golems all the 
 time (there are over 100 to collect) . You can even take the golems online and battle over xbox 
 live. The save system is excellent, as you can save anywhere you want (as long is it's not in a 
 battle) . Also, there's an option to choose voice casting (english or japanese, I prefer japanese) . 
 Finally, all the RPG elements of the game are very good too, such as skills, items, and weapons 
 (you can also buy items, weapons, skills, and even synthesize golems at items shops placed around 
 the world) . Now the bad. Matoko is literally openly gay and he loves Touya (your main characters 
 best friend) . He is EXTREMELY annoying. Also, the battle system is ok, but it's nothing great. 
 It can be very boring at times. It's a grid system, but very limited. Also, in battles you lose 
 health VERY fast. Because of this, you get fully healed after every battle. This can be good or 
 bad, as it can make some people feel the game is too easy. Also, for an RPG, the music some what 
 sucks. The battle theme sounds like a crappy opera thing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: legs1986
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 25, 2006 11:25 am PT
Review:  This was a game well worth the $60. In the grand scheme of RPGs it will be lost and forgotten I'm 
 sure, but for the game itself was very enjoyable. The storyline was very very entertaining, lots 
 of humor thrown into it. The strategic battle system worked extremly well, unfortunately you did 
 not really need to use strategy until about the last 1/3 of the game. You will consistently notice 
 times where this game needed more polish, however it is never broken and was enjoyable all the 
 way through. Excellent collection system with the golems, excellent leveling system, and excellent 
 battle system.
  
  Very good start for the JRPG on the X360. I'd recommend this one to anyone who enjoys turn-based 
 RPGs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Erratis
Rating: 8.9
Date: Oct 27, 2006 5:31 am PT
Review:  Ive been playing Enchanted Arm for a few days and will share my experience with it. Before I got 
 the game I read all the reviews and alot of people were complaining about the voice overs, so I 
 prepared myself for the worst. The voice overs are far from great, but they are not that bad. The 
 graphics in the game are ok , the great thing about the games graphics are the cutscenes. The ingame 
 movies were very enjoyable to watch.
  
  The gameplay was great, typical RPG, what I expected. The way they did the battles was very inventive, 
 and I like it. You have the choice where the players stand and move, unlike other RPG's where you 
 just attack and they do it. The menus where nice and easy to get around after only a few minutes. 
 Another thing that was great was the VP system, your players would get tired when they ran low 
 on VP points and would not be able to fight, forcing you to swap out the players for ones you would 
 not normally use, this was a great idea and added alot to the game.
  
  Now the things I found I didnt like. It wasnt hard to get New Golems in the game, that was good, 
 but I found it needed to Drop more Items for the players in the fights. You could buy upgrades 
 and such, but when fighting I like finding Items, more than buying them. The computer Golems lacked 
 AI in some battels, sometimes I would Hide in the back corner of the battelfield and ranged attack, 
 and the enemies would not be able to find me, or hit me. They would just pass thier turn. During 
 the game tutorials will come up and help you with things you need to do, I didnt mind this, but 
 I thought they were entirely to long for such small task that any gamer could figure out.
  
  If your into RPG's this is a great game, The story is Great, goes into alot of detail about 
 whats going on. I fould if hard to stop playing once I started. With the lack of RPG's on the 360 
 right now, this one is a Great buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ricksterlau
Rating: 8.2
Date: Sep 23, 2006 4:09 pm PT
Review:  Like many of u, i was very surprised wen i saw video previews of the game, especially the very 
 pretty CG cutscenes. Then reivews started to trigger my thoughts to whether I should get this game, 
 with a low 7.1 by gamespot giving only a 6 for graphics. However in the end, I gave it a try and 
 I wasnt disappointed at all.... and still enjoying.
  
  Gameplay - typical fantasy turn based j-rpg. Storyline wise, i dont think i need to say much as 
 Gamespot has said alot about it. The battle system is a very good postive to what the game has 
 to offer. U select 4 primary characters to be placed randomly on a 3x4 grid everytime u encounter 
 enimies. Usually, the player takes the 1st turn to attack (except wen a surprise attack is initiatied 
 by the enemy.) U assign all the moves from each of the character. Once finished, they will carry 
 out the assigned move and then it will be the enemies turn. U may say it has a hint of repetition 
 but since you encounter many different golems as u progress thru the game, there is a urge to make 
 u try out and train golems u have not used before. It may be said that encounters are 'just' that 
 bit too often but even if 3 out of ur 4 characters die, they will be revived automatically in the 
 next battle so long if ur final character doesnt die.
  
  Graphics - As I said, I was very surprised wen gamespot gave a 6 for graphics after wat i have 
 seen from screenshots and video previews. I also read many player's reviews of the game, some agreed 
 with GS review and some gave it 9 or even 10. I must say to all the people in the world, whoever 
 gave this a 10 for graphics honestly should get their eyes tested cause they can see SH*T. CG cutscenes 
 for me are impressive i must say, its more or less like Final Fantasy but with better lighting 
 and shadows. But to only judge this &amp; give it 10 would totally be incorrect. The in-game graphics 
 are very average for a Xbox360 game. There is very little texture or details on surfaces. The only 
 next-gen graphics i see are again lighting &amp; shadows.
  
  Sound - Average soundtrack u would hear in a typical j-rpg. Not bad but nothing special like FF. 
 I played through the game in english dialogue. And yes, u could say the speech was annoying, too 
 many lame coversations, unecessary speech tutorials... etc etc. but i must say, this doesnt not 
 contirbute much, if not any, part of the gameplay. For me, I got used to it. P*ssed off? Just fast-forward 
 the speech by slamming the A button. Simple yeh?
  
  Value - GS is right about the 40hr mark gameplay. And if u dont consider that to be long, im not 
 sure which games u will for a j-rpg. Yes, I have played games with much longer times, and thats 
 why i gave it a 9. Never played the multi-player, nor was i ever interested. I just got sucked 
 into the gameplay. And yeh, there is ALOT of dialogue which takes up a bit of time, but thats how 
 the game tells the story to us gamers. Its true i would only paly it once, but thats what I always 
 have done for rpgs especially once u know what happens in the end.
  
  In the end, Enchanted Arms is a very solid game without the best in-game graphics in the world, 
 however just because of this is enough to encourage u gamers to try it out. As I have said before, 
 final touches were lacking in certain areas, say, 1) . no ability to change armour 2) . shops in a 
 form of station-point in between levels and routes instead of proper shops in town. 3) . graphics 
 should be much more detailed in certain areas and improved texture on different surfaces 4) . More 
 CGs instead of old-skool text based narration going thru the game explaining the storyline..... and 
 maybe a bit more.
  
  But I do recommend u to get this game if u like j-rpgs because it is just plain fun and take u 
 a good 40-hours to complete. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FLYINGFLIP
Rating: 7.7
Date: Sep 22, 2006 1:05 pm PT
Review:  Enchanted Arms is a fun game and all, but it lacks some elements that a good rpg needs. The background 
 of the Atsuma is the same as any. He is the leader of the pack, headstrong and fierce. But there 
 is something special about him and he can become the most powerful person ever.... Besides the 
 nonoriginal background it is a good game. It is very fun and you can get deep into the game, but 
 it goes by fast. The characters that are included are very original, especially having a nancy 
 boy character. The dialogue is very good in the game and helps to keep up the value of the game. 
 This is a good game for the rpg gamer that likes the turned based fighting with a little bit of 
 tactics. My personal feeling on this: this is an alright game in my book, easily addictive, but 
 you get bored easily with all of the running around. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blakey0123
Rating: 9.2
Date: Sep 21, 2006 7:34 am PT
Review:  This game is really under-ratted by gamespot, The game is alittle hard to understand at the start 
 but that could just be me lol, Its a classic Rpg with very entertaning characters and a fantastic 
 storyline and the graphic truly are next gen they look fantastic.
  The battle music however is alittle bad not very interesting and dont really make u feel like you 
 want to fight.
  There are a couple of anoying points such as after each battle you loose VP which is not HP but 
 wen VP gets to 0 you character has no health for the next battle which is bloody stupid if you 
 ask me and the only way you can sort this out is to go to a heal point, but you do have the use 
 of the golems you collect so thats good only your characters dont level up when they are not able 
 to fight.
  One more anoying thing is the camrea angle, when you run your looking up atsuma's bum and cant 
 see whats infront off him the camrea angle REALLY ANOYS ME
  
  But all in all if you like final fantasy and classic Rpg's then you will love this if not take 
 it back to the shop lol. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BabylonX
Rating: 9.3
Date: Sep 20, 2006 10:53 am PT
Review:  The thing that most reviewers fail to mention is that because this game is a traditional Japanese 
 RPG that it has little in the way of comparable game play to a title like Oblivion. But then again 
 Oblivion is an action game with RPG elements not the other way around. I don't know when exactly 
 it happened that cutting edge became synonymous with completely unrecognizable within a genre. 
 I don't need an open ended world or over hyped gore to make my RPG experience. I realize that there 
 is drive within the industry to create experiences for gamers, but one of my greatest disappointments 
 first with the Xbox and now with the 360 is the lack of traditional RPGs like Enchanted Arms. Games 
 like Final Fantasy VII are what drove much of the early Sony sales and I wonder if that is why 
 Microsoft shies away from this type of game. Nevertheless, Enchanted Arms is a game for those of 
 us who still think that the traditional RPG has a place on next gen consoles. I want more games 
 like Enchanted Arms. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kai_Ozu
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 19, 2006 10:14 pm PT
Review:  Once again, wonderful characters but a horrible story. Atsuma, the main character is trying to 
 save his best friend that was been taken away from him by Ice Queen At the end it didnt really 
 seem like it was worth going though all this trouble to save him and many elements in the story 
 dont make much sense at all. But on to the battle system, this is the one thing that I really 
 enjoyed. It had this chess like feel to it moving around your characters and place them just right 
 to win battles. Much more fun than just hitting a command to battle something.
  
  The Japanese voice work is really good as well; some of it is truly funny. The arc system makes 
 this all possible since the game doesnt rely on CG movies to tell the story. Instead you see two 
 characters on screen talking back and forth to each other with some really awesome facial expressions.
 
  
  But other then that, this game is extremely average. The background youre going to be walking 
 though are all very dull and lack color and life. If this game had a little more development time, 
 it would have been a really cool game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kinco360
Rating: 8.4
Date: Sep 19, 2006 3:22 pm PT
Review:  I know this game has been given a lot of negative press lately, but don't look away from this one. 
 This game offers a mixture of many familiar television shows and video games. Right off the bat, 
 people can see the Yu-Gi-Oh! influence in this title, as you start off at an academy for the best 
 enchanters in the world. The are also some elements from Pokemon, Zatch Bell and Final Fantasy 
 Tactics.
  
  The graphics in this game are nothing to drool over, but you have to look beyond that in this title. 
 Well-drawn world in which to travel in. The 2-D cinematics are a bit out-of-date, but I feel this 
 only adds to the unique feel of this game. Beautifully rendered 3-D cinematic scenes keep you in 
 suspense during the entire game.
  
  The sounds in this game are vast and plentiful. The character voice-overs are well done, especially 
 for a Japanese game that was translated into English. Each spell and attack has it's own unique 
 look and sound that should be enough to keep even the most hardcore of tactical RPG gamers happy.
 
  
  People that might pick this game up and review it may not be able to see through this game's shell, 
 but it's well worth it. The story starts out with young Atsuma and his friends, Toya and Makoto 
 at the Enchanting University in Yokohama City. Apparently, 1000 years ago there was a terrible 
 rebellion from the golems (which are artificial life forms created by using enchanting magic, and 
 they also join you if you manage to defeat them in battle) , which was ultimately called the Golem 
 War. As the game progresses, you learn that Atsuma's arm is the key to the world's future.
  
  If you can look past the 2D graphics, this is truly one of the best RPG's out there. With one 
 of the most heart-felt stories in years, I highly recommend atleast renting this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _Hellgiver_
Rating: 9.3
Date: Sep 18, 2006 2:23 am PT
Review:  This game is awesome, no disputes. The graphics are sensational and the music is pretty enjoyable, 
 but having an MP3 player probably will go a lot further in making the experience more enjoyable. 
 The controls are very easy to learn and it even has an awesome auto feature which lets the game 
 take control of your characters for any battle and attack the enemies for you, making leveling 
 up a lot easier since the battles can go for about 1 minute or so instead of 5 from you having 
 to choose all the moves every turn. There is also the very highly used fast forward command you 
 can give during any move animation in battle that is very welcomed. The tremendous amount of obtainable 
 golems adds much flavor to the game. Personally I find the huge number of golems to give the game 
 replay value since I use pretty much one team and switch a few characters around every once in 
 a while. Now that I have beaten the game with these certain characters I will try it again with 
 some other combination since there are so many golems that are worth trying. The story is intriguing 
 and all the characters are funny and add to the story nicely. There are many options that you can 
 choose from during conversations and each leads to its own, sometimes funny, path in the dialogue. 
 This is definitely not a hard game at all, unless you are trying to obtain all the golems, then 
 it can be a bit frustrating. The high amount of abusable factors take away from some of the game's 
 difficulty. I spent about 50 hours on my first time through the game, since I wanted to obtain 
 as many golems as I could and do as many side quests as possible the first time through. A bit 
 of a let down for me was the fact that the game makers translated all the dialogue and the character's 
 voices in battle to English but left all the golem's voices in battle in japanese. I kinda wanted 
 to hear what some of my golems were thinking without having to learn Japanese : (. The online multiplayer 
 isn't very popular, as I usually don't see more than a couple of people on it at a time. It is 
 fun if both players keep making random teams, but other than that the multiplayer is pretty one 
 sided for whoever goes first, and is quickly over. This game is overall a GREAT game. I love it 
 and will probably come back to play it again in the future. Definitely worth buying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ff7nation
Rating: 7.3
Date: Sep 17, 2006 6:46 pm PT
Review:  My name is Rich and this is my review for Enchanted Arms on the Xbox 360. First off I have to say 
 that this game is more or less a yay or nay for most people, meaning you hate it or love it. First 
 of is the gameplay, which can be broken down into three different areas, the battle system, the 
 story, and progression. The battle system is made up of a tactics based 4x4 frid that you can manuveur 
 4 character around to do thier specialized attacks. I enjoyed this system very much, but it got 
 to be tedious at times. Within this battle systme you may use the 4 main human characters of the 
 game or your choice of about 100 different golem type creatures. Most of these golem creatures 
 look cool, but lack the actual usefulness of battle. I honestly used about 8-10 out of those hundred 
 golems and that was over the course of the entire game. most of them are not worth using at all, 
 which somewhat makes it useless to get them. Also within the battle system your main human characters 
 can use what is known as EX attacks. These attacks are basically summon type spells of each characters 
 elemental allignment. Most are useful, but only 2-3 can be used within an hour or so unless your 
 run around and build your EX bar up again with battles. So all in all the battle system has some 
 flaws, but in the end is pretty solid. Next is the story, which to me was pretty well done. The 
 tale of Enhanted Arms is that of golems and power. The sacred Devil Golems were created 1000 years 
 ago to end the golem war that the humans had started, but after this deed was done the Devil Golems 
 turned on there once known masters. They were eventually sealed away by powerful magicians and 
 the use of the Holy Beasts. Now as a young man named Atsuma you are plauged with vivid dreams of 
 horrible battles... or are they memories? Throughout the story you play as Atsuma who is basically 
 trying to defeat the Queen of Ice, which is a Devil Golem he revived by accident. On top of this 
 feat Atsuma is also trying to save his friend Toya, who was kidnapped and is being controlled by 
 the Golem. Many different plot twists are abound and a few interesting characters are met along 
 the way, which gives the game an almost comical feel. Towards the end the story really comes together 
 and Atsuma finally learns the truth about what his ARM really is. I personally enjoyed the story 
 very much. Like I said there are many twusts and interesting moments that make this games story 
 very enjoyable. Lastly is the progression of the game, which is basically how it is played. This 
 is where i was refering to the JRPG aspect of the game. For all its glory, Enchanted Arms is somewhat 
 short and extremely linear. You literally go from point A to point B and so on. There is a very 
 trapped feel about this gameplay to most, but in the end it all comes together and you get somewhat 
 of a free exploration option. So if you enjoy picking up golems, fighting great enemy designs, 
 and interacting with some interesting characters then the progression should be fine. Well that 
 about wraps it up for me and my review of Enchanted Arms. I hope that ive helped out a few peolpe 
 on some key topics. Overall I think EA is a good game and a definate must rent. It is up to the 
 buyer if they want to purchase it fom there or not. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shadowlinex
Rating: 7.3
Date: Sep 15, 2006 9:45 pm PT
Review:  Enchanted Arms is a colorful and beautiful game, but if you look past it the flashiness and see 
 the game for what it is. You will see that it is barely over an average game.
  
  GRAPHICS:
  By far the best part in the game, the scenery and wilderness effects are excellent! 
 Water in Enchanted Arms is amazing and very well done. The characters are beautifully rendered 
 and animated. With that said they could have taken it an extra step and added the flare to the 
 game. I feel some objects should of been animated in the game, but weren't. The character's speech 
 doesn't always match the movement of their mouth.
  
  SOUND:
  The sound in Enchanted Arms feels a little underwhelming for this game. It never got my heart beating 
 like in some other games. I found that the VO work was rather annoying, but it is bearable. With 
 that said some parts in the game the city sounds really fit in. Kyoto had very soft and ancient 
 music, while London city had an industral feel to it.
  
  GAMEPLAY:
  This is the part of the game that I feel is a let down. The battle system was more fluid then in 
 some rpgs, but that didn't negate the fact that this game is easy with a capital E. Not only will 
 you find that extra dungeons present really no challenge at all. You can get through Enchanted 
 Arms with really two skills. However, a few boss battles will really get you hot blooded in the 
 fact of the curve ball in difficulty they throw at you. The upside of the gameplay is the golems 
 you can make. Simply put, there are a lot of golems you can make and a few which you will find 
 yourself coming back to more then other. There are even a few cameo appearances from other From 
 Software games. But despite that it doesn't make up for the relative easiness of the game.
  
  REPLAY:
  This game has some slight replay value because of multiple endings and the fact 
 that you may want to load up a save before the final boss to train your golems for online play. 
 On xboxlive you can take the golems you raised in the game and use them online to duke it out with 
 other peoples golems. However, that is the only thing you can do online besides recording your 
 gambling records from the casino.
  
  REVIEWER OPINION:
  It is worth a rent. I beat the game and got most of the extra goodies in one renting. So if you 
 want to take a spin at the first Japanese rpg on the 360 without buying it then give it a rent 
 and you won't have any regrets! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Superman_legend
Rating: 9.1
Date: Sep 13, 2006 1:18 pm PT
Review:  THis games just plain fun. If your looking for fun rpg with unique style and gameplay this is it. 
 THe
  golems you can pick from or unique and very entertaining. The whole game you just cant wait
  
 which ones you can get next. If you love collecting
  pets of destruction and entertainment youll love this. The graphic are great and clothes actually 
 move when running, climbing, and swimming. Its got a pretty unique story to. If jrpg that collect
 
  monsters ( think pokemon but more grown up in in most some parts) but with characters to fight 
 with to. Also got some pretty bad cutscenes. A must
  buy for true rpg collector. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jamzy360
Rating: 8.3
Date: Sep 13, 2006 10:36 am PT
Review:  lets get a bit of the story out there. well like most japanise role plaing games (JRPG) you are 
 an angry teenager mistirious past and theres somethink difrent about you. that being that your right 
 arm is ,well, powerful. gameplay is well reconisble but has a new tactics twist which isnt relly 
 needed but still pretty neat. it also reminds me of the pokemon games for the gameboy in which u 
 had to find your own creatures and then improve them your self. graphics can be great and at most 
 are but sometimes u catch youre eye on something not to pretty and it can harm youre expirence 
 of the game. story, graphics and gameplay are above par though and that helps this games case but... 
 sometimes childish voices (yuki) can be irratating. and there are lots of times u just want to skip 
 all the battles leaving u in akward situation for bosses. again decreasein the fun of it. of all 
 the nagging things though this is like saints row, as in it trrys its best to be somethink its 
 not, gran theft auto. like that this tries to be final fantasy but relly fails u dont feal for the 
 charcter where as in FF7 for example when aeries dies its the most major twist in a video game 
 its up there with movies. it also losses the freedom of final fantasy as there is no extra missions 
 bonus towns mini half an hour quests. and theres no world map. i htink they wanted to take the final 
 fantasy idea but only took enough so they wouldn't be branded as copy cats. and it relly spoils 
 it you either go for your owen game or a full on copy half way in beetween spoils the game and 
 although its agreat game its like a footballer who ant decide wheather to pass or shoot and it 
 ends up in the stands. id also like to point out how poor the multiplayer is its nice to have but 
 its hard to find a game where skill and tactics make the diffrence instead of how far youre story 
 charcter is. It also boots you out after evrey game with no option for a rematch. an engoyble game 
 with all the elments of a great game but lack of freedom and anoying little nags relly bring it 
 down. poor multiplayer kaicks the cherry of the top of the cake that wanted anouther few layers. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OblivionGateIV
Rating: 8.1
Date: Sep 12, 2006 3:48 pm PT
Review:  There was much anticipation and specualtion about Enchanted Arms, it being the first import RPG 
 on the new Xbox. Turns out that this one isn't so bad after all.
  
  Many complain how all RPGs have all of the same old cliches. EA is no exception. The hero's town 
 gets blasted, and he and a bunch of elemental warroirs have to go kill the thing that did it. Sounds 
 like Final Fantasy X. But it's not. there are magical creatures to build and collect, hundreds 
 of enemies to fight, and battles to play online with your creatures.
  
  The game uses an innovative grid systems to wage battle. Each character's attacks can reach certain 
 areas of the grid, depeding on where that character moves to. It works fairly well, though you 
 may find an occasional lack of originality in moves.
  
  The graphics are stunning. From the towering magic school to the forests beyond, everything is 
 rendered in stunning clarity. The elemental special attacks are the true spectacles, raining beautiful 
 death down on the field.
  
  The voice acting is pretty bad, but all the other sound you hear are clear and good.
  
  One 
 thing thst is wierdabout EA is that, instead of going into shops and hotels, you just stand outside 
 the door and the scene takes you inside. Not exactly a good idea, but it doesn't ruin the fun. 
 Shops are located in odd-looking crystals along your journey. A good thing is that you get to save 
 wherever you want, unlike most RPGs.
  
  The battles do get frustrating, escpecially the bosses, but don't give up; you will make it with 
 the right combination of allies on your side. The story is based in a world after the Golem War, 
 when magicla machine creatures did all sorts of destruction upon the land. In that war, the evil 
 Devil Golems were sealed, and all magic except the weak Enchant magic was lost. You must use regular 
 Golems and Enchant magic to defeat your enemies.
  
  For the price, you get a great RPG, a graphic novel straight form Japan with some background info, 
 and a fun online battle system. Definitely worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MINIZTER
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 11, 2006 5:45 pm PT
Review:  Enchanted Arms for the Xbox 360 kicks hard like a horse. The game is straight up hardcore and runs 
 perfect with some Heavy Metal if you are into playing with over than 150 characters. Putting this 
 game on the PS3 and giving the 360 the new version sounds a bit aka (TIP) Tacky Individual Play 
 which means PS3 gets the upper hand while the 360 gets the lower hand. Microsoft should reconsider 
 putting this game on the PS3 if there is to be a competition between these two system. Enchanted 
 Arms has a good storyline and great graphics so don't turn down the game, don't knock it, just 
 buy play the game before you buy it. If love it. buy it. If you hate it, don't buy it. If you wish 
 to be surprised, just buy it off the shelf and go home to play it then post your revotes and your 
 views on how much you enjoyed it. Like the motto says: Xbox 360-Jump in. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fagsi
Rating: 8.3
Date: Sep 11, 2006 10:56 am PT
Review:  The JRPG is quite an allusive creature for Microsoft. It's a genre that the previous console was 
 never really privy to, thanks, in part, to the low market penetration of the original Xbox in Japan. 
 Thankfully, Microsoft realized that they were missing out on a pretty big demographic when it comes 
 to gaming and decided with their 360 to invest in some overseas development within this beloved 
 genre. There have been a few different announcements of JRPGs in the works for the 360: Square-Enix 
 and tri-Ace have a mysterious project in development, Namco Bandai have the story of Chopin's Dream 
 and of course, Mistwalker Studios has its two announced doozies. However, a far less high-profile 
 game is actually the first JRPG offering for us and that game is none other than Enchanted Arms.
 
  
  Released for the Japanese launch, Enchanted Arms was met with mixed reviews. Many thought it was 
 a very good first effort, but it seemed that a little more time and refinement could have done 
 the game a world of good. Regardless, seeing a JRPG on a Microsoft system garnered the attention 
 of many a fan and skeptic alike, especially here in the States. Though commonplace in Japan, the 
 JRPG was something many staunch Sony fans could not live without and the prospect of such games 
 hitting the 360 raised many an eyebrow, including my own.
  
  Thus, it is with a smile on my face and butterflies in my stomach that I happily announce to the 
 internet that Enchanted Arms is a great game that is certainly worth your time. It might not be 
 the best JRPG ever made  far from it in fact  but the game does enough right to warrant space 
 in your library and will hopefully pave the way for a bright future of RPGs on the console.
  
  The battle system is unique and very addicting.
  EA tells the story of a young student named 
 Atsuma, who attends a special school for enchanters in Yokohoma. Together with his friends Toya 
 and Makoto, the helpless Atsuma lives out his days sleeping through lectures and forgetting his 
 lessons. The story begins with the advent of the festival of Yokohoma, which celebrates the town's 
 founding - in style. Atsuma decides that skipping is a necessity, and so he and his chaps make 
 their way to the festival. However, something goes wrong and the entire party is crashed by a violent 
 earthquake, which leaves many people hurt and suffering from a strange fatigue. Headstrong, Atsuma 
 rushes forward to investigate the problem, where he learns the vicious truth. He then sets off 
 to amend the grievous problem and save the world.
  
  Sound familiar? I wouldn't be surprised. Though the story is very well-told and engaging throughout 
 its forty to fifty hour lifespan, it's certainly not the most original tale ever to be told. Still, 
 there are enough twists and turns found within to keep you interested, and the majority of the 
 story is told through some respectable voice acting in whichever language you chose. In particular, 
 Atsuma proves to be a very appealing main character: one of the likes we haven't seen in a while. 
 Unlike the key players in most Final Fantasy games, Atsuma is a man torn by his emotions and these 
 emotions change dramatically through the course of events. The character itself actually develops 
 as the story progresses, and the mannerisms and details in his speech and behavior follow suit. 
 Though the average gamer will probably this nuances, this facet truly renders the script very effective 
 in terms of illustrating the effect that the calamity has on our hero and this is something that's 
 very unique to Enchanted Arms. It's not every day that an RPG character feels authentically human.
 
  
  Thus, the story proves to be surprisingly enjoyable. Like a good book that you weren't expecting 
 to turn out so well, the story of EA is definitely worth playing through at least once, and as 
 it should be, is the main draw of the entire experience.
  
  The cinemas are gorgeous, almost overly so.
  Don't take me wrong though, the story isn't the 
 best part of the game: it's good, but the actual gameplay is where the game really shines. Enchanted 
 Arms features a very original take on the turn-based battle system standard that actually plays 
 remarkably well, fusing two huge Japanese traditions into one coherent whole. The game combines 
 the grid-based, location-centric combat of the typical strategy RPG with the turn-based, spell-casting 
 action of your typical JRPG. The end result is a system that plays incredibly quick, and yet requires 
 quite a bit of skill in order to use effectively.
  
  To understand the importance of the battle system, though, one must understand the build of the 
 characters. Your fighting party is composed of four slots for your main playable characters  who 
 fill in the typical stereotypes of the RPG genre  as well as a huge roster of golems who fill 
 out the remaining slots. The golems are basically the equivalent to Pokemon or Shin Megami Tensei: 
 Nocturne's demons: cool looking pets with strong abilities that level just like your characters 
 but have no direct play in the plotline. Each battle member  be it a character or a golem  has 
 the typical stats: Hit Points, Energy Points (which is basically MP) , and then a series of stats 
 for Attack, Defense, Dodge and so on. In short - very standard and honestly quite expected.
  
  However, not everything is as standard. Unlike most RPGs, you're fully healed for free after 
 every single battle: no items or EP are used, you just get a free full heal. This encourages you 
 to go all out in every battle and frankly, you're going to need to: even the random mobs in EA 
 can prove challenging. Of course, if it was just free healing forever without any real penalty, 
 that'd be too easy. The notable addition here is the "Vitality" Points. Every action you take in 
 battle costs you a certain amount of "Vitality". Think of it as though it were a measurement of 
 your battle fatigue. The amount of rounds a battle takes, how many moves you use, how many times 
 you die, and so forth - all of these add up to how much "Vitality" you spend in a battle. Slowly 
 but surely, your VP will deplete as you traverse through a dungeon, and should your VP reach zero, 
 you'll enter every battle with 1 HP and 1 EP. Get four characters with this and you can see how 
 much trouble you're in. The only way to heal VP is at a Restore Point, which are about as frequent 
 as save points in other games - few and far between, to further wear out a clich. There are VP 
 restoring items, but their about as fruitful as Elixirs.
  
  The lighting is easily what seperates this game from the previous generation of RPGs.
  So what 
 does that all mean? Well, to my great delight, that means that the game actually rewards you for 
 strategically finishing each battle as fast as possible with the minimal amount of moves. If you 
 can manage to complete a battle in the first round, you'll be rewarded with a loss of zero VP across 
 the board. Go ten rounds with five deaths and you're likely to see a nice loss of twenty or more. 
 Thus, the battle system of Enchanted Arms plays out at a ferocious speed, but it takes equal parts 
 of strategy in order to really excel at the game. And trust me, finishing the battle in one round 
 is really an accomplishment, even with random trash mobs a level or two lower than your party.
 
  
  For Boss Battles though, you can pretty much forget about the whole previous paragraph. I must 
 say that EA surprised me - some of the bosses are damn hard. They are typically very strong and 
 have a heck of a lot of health, so you'll need to effectively use the many tools at your disposal. 
 Both your characters and golems will have a series of skills which they can use: strong melee attacks, 
 area attacks, magic and buffs. In addition, your human characters have the ability to execute very 
 strong attacks once they've built up enough rage (see Limit Breaks) . Moreover, it's possible to 
 build up a combo meter and unleash large strings of attacks that multiply the damage. Effectively 
 using these many tools is absolutely essential for victory in all but the most trivial battles.
 
  
  Above and beyond all that's been mentioned, EA does a few nice things with the battle system to 
 help appeal to the less than patient audience that the Xbox 360 embodies. At any time during a 
 battle you can fast-forward through the entire thing, just by holding down a button. This makes 
 the already fast battles go super speed, and you'll find yourself whipping through battles really 
 quickly once you get the hang of it. In addition, you have the option of making the computer do 
 your dirty work with two quick button presses, though this proves pointless for all but the most 
 useless trash mobs or random battles, providing your characters have been built up well.
  
  The architecture is beautiful to look at, I'll give you that.
  And therein lies another big element 
 of EA - the thorough character development. Whenever you complete a battle, you'll earn some Skill 
 Points for your characters: humans and golems alike. With these skill points, you can buy yourself 
 new abilities at the stores, or gain them through leveling up. In addition, you can spend skill 
 points to incrementally increase your stats. This allows you total control over the stats of your 
 character, though there are definite "right" and "wrong" ways to go. Alas, the customization of 
 stats is thus rendered somewhat useless, as trying to make a non-caster into a caster is pointless, 
 because each character can only learn certain skills. This is perhaps the biggest single flaw in 
 any of the systems of EA. Of course, the wide variety of golems offsets this problem as you can 
 customize your team as you chose, but it would have been nice to see a more developed skill system.
 
  
  You can also soup up your characters weapons and make new golems with the handy synthesis crystals 
 scattered around the world. Synthesis is very, very simple: all you need is the core of the item 
 you want to make, and then a variety of easy-to-find-or-buy gems. Again, it's a very simple process 
 that doesn't really stand out, but serves to add a little more dimension then simply finding the 
 weapons and golems around the world.
  
  Though the game starts whimsically, things change quickly.
  When you're not battling or listening 
 to the story, you'll have the chance to do a few side-quests and play some mini-games, as is the 
 genre standard. One of the cities in the game includes a Casino with a wide variety of games that 
 feature Xbox Live ranking. I found myself one of the only three people on the leaderboard, so I 
 enjoyed my high ranking victory at Roulette. For some, I'm sure this will become an addiction. 
 Luckily, you can earn some really nice items from your gambling. If that wasn't enough, there's 
 also an online multiplayer mode that allows you to pit your golems against a friends. It includes 
 the expected options from any Xbox Live game  player matches and ranked matches  and will certainly 
 prove to be a good way to settle bets between friends. Ultimately, though, it's a very simple affair, 
 and the one-off matches will entertain but not enthrall.
  
  Graphically, Enchanted Arms is solid if not underwhelming. The environments are beautiful and well-drawn, 
 and the character models are very nicely detailed and rich. The architecture of the three main 
 cities is unique to each, and very, very impressive: the type of environments that would have been 
 used for fly-bys to wow people during pre-launch tech demos. However, the animations outside of 
 battle are only decent at best, and though the battle animations and spell effects are nice, it 
 still feels somewhat underwhelming. There's a lot of wide open space and sparsely populated area 
 in Enchanted Arms, and unless you have a really nice HD setup, you won't really get the proper 
 bang for the graphical buck, not to mention that EA suffers from the "Dead Rising" SDTV text problem 
 when in the menu. What's worse is that EA reminds us that we haven't quite gotten to the point 
 where gameplay can be as gorgeous as cinematics, because the jaw-dropping FMVs in EA (that are 
 on par with anything Square has made) are noticeably more gorgeous than the game itself, going 
 so far as to do disservice to the in-game engine.
  
  Just like the general feel of the environments, the sound is somewhat barren. At first, I really 
 enjoyed the tracks that played throughout the towns at the early portions of the game. However, 
 after things take a turn for the evil in the story, the music definitely fades to the background, 
 and thus will ultimately be forgettable. And seriously, not having catchy boss and battle music 
 is a real shame. I need something to hum along to, and sadly, such is not available.
  
  However, despite the audiovisual short-comings, Enchanted Arms is a very good game. It's a good 
 RPG made better by the fact that it's the only RPG we're going to have for a long time. The story 
 proves to be surprisingly enjoyable, and the battle system surprisingly addicting. Tack onto that 
 a satisfactory character development system, a huge number and variety of collectible characters 
 and a nice little online mode and you have a perfect way to start the JRPG on the 360.
  
  My only hope is that this starts a trend that will bring us more JRPGs. Microsoft, if you're reading 
 this, we want more! Enchanted Arms is a great game, but there's certainly room for improvement 
 in the next JRPG. And the next one. And the next one. And the... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JBDFTWFPES
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 10, 2006 1:51 pm PT
Review:  Great story, the gameplay is very cool and the graphics are uber nice.
  it's one of the best games I played in a while.
  Rpg fans wil love it.
  Please play only the 
 game in Japanese, because in english it sucks! It sucks HARD!
  The goloms are very nice and fun to controle and to train.
  The story doesn't become boring, 
 you even want to play the game just for the story. I just want to say buy this game rpg fan or 
 not, it's a great game for everyone 8.5 8.5 8.5 8.5 8.5 8.5 8.5 8.5 8.5 8.5 8.5 8.5
  8.5 8.5 8.5 8.5 8.5 8.5
  8.5 8.5 8.5 8.5 8.5 8.5
  8.5 8.5 8.5 8.5 8.5 8.5 8.5 8.5 8.5 8.5 8.5 
 8.5
  8.5 8.5 8.5 8.5 8.5 8.5
  8.5 8.5 8.5 8.5 8.5 8.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kerrdogg
Rating: 5
Date: Sep 10, 2006 8:40 am PT
Review:  I have played many RPGs in my time. I have to say that this one brought me back, back to several 
 old consoles. Toted as the "first Japanese rpg of the next gen console", there is nothing about 
 this game that is next gen. The graphics are, at best, worthy of the PS2/Xbox era. There was nothing 
 visual about this game that made your jaw drop. The landscapes where nice, but rather confined 
 for a next gen RPG. This is the area for the biggest improvement in Xbox 360 games over Xbox games, 
 and Enchanted Arms failed miserably in taking advantage of this. The gameplay is all but completely 
 mindless. There is an "auto" feature that enables you to have the AI do the battles for you which 
 you only have to circumvent a couple of times throughout the entire game. Another flaw is the lack 
 of explanation of what your stats are. The story was OK, but too linear. By linear, I mean like 
 Dragon Warrior I linear. There are absolutely no deviations. In fact, there is only one real sidequest. 
 For me, this was the most disappointing feature of the game. One would expect a vast, wide world 
 to explore in a next gen RPG, and this game was nothing of the sort.
  
  All in all, this game was a big disappointment. Save your money for Blue Dragon or Lost Odyssey. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: platniumaura
Rating: 8.7
Date: Sep 10, 2006 7:26 am PT
Review:  I FOR ONE REALLY LIKE THIS GAME. ITS NOT BAD FOR A FIRST ROMP ON TRADITIONAL RPGS FOR THE 360. IT 
 DOES HAVE ITS PROBLEMS, LIKE I REALLY WISH THE PCS WERE MORE CUSTOMIZABLE ,PERHAPS THE INCLUSION 
 OF ARMOUR AND SHEILDS HELMS AND MAYBEE MORE WEPONS. BUT PERHAPS THE NEXT GO ROUND WILL BE BETTER. I 
 AM A TRADITIONAL TURN BASED RPG FAN SO I CAN BE A LITTLE HARD TO PLEASE BUT THE PCS ARE VERY WELL 
 THOUGHT OUT, AND THE COMEDY IS REFRESHING. THIS GAME SHOULD HAVE GOT AN 8/8.5 LEAST. IF THIS IS A 
 SIGHN OF RPGS TO COME FOR THE 360 THEN I THINK MICROSOFT IS IN GOOD SHAPE (ALL I REALLY PLAY IS 
 RPGS MOSTLY SO THAY HAVE MY MONEY) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ProfesorGlowbug
Rating: 8.4
Date: Sep 9, 2006 8:11 pm PT
Review:  Okay so one of the first things you'll notice is that as far as graphics go its not leaps and bounds 
 ahead of the crowd. But who cares some of my favorite story based RPG's have sucky graphics but 
 the story and FUN FACTOR push them over the top and make them classics. These few select RPG's 
 I often pull out of the closet every now and again and play all over "just one last time." I've 
 been doing this for years. Well Enchanted Arms feels just like old school but with a twist of new 
 school in it. The story is plain fun its easy to get into and the battle system really isn't that 
 complicated to master. Yes Yuki's voice is uterly anoying but the rest of the actors do a supurb 
 job and this one is for sure going to my closet to be played again sometime down the road again. 
 It's worth the time to play and I'm sure that you'll not regret the time spent playing if you enjoy 
 classic Japanese imports. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mirangrp
Rating: 8.9
Date: Sep 8, 2006 3:10 am PT
Review:  I have played this game for quite awhile and I am 78% done with the story mode. So now I feel that 
 my input has some value.
  
  The turn based battle system is well made and makes the battles fun. What I really like that it 
 doesnt have that press attack only button feel to it. However, I will admit sometimes the frequency 
 of the random battles can get a tad annoying, but the fast forward option and auto battle tend 
 to supress the annoyance. Another interesting thing I liked about the game was the limit on the 
 skills and supporting skills. Based on what type of foes that I encounter I change my skills accordingly 
 adding another tactic to the battle system. I recommend if you are gonna try to fight in the shrines 
 you should have astuma equipped with his recover, and high charge skills. Also gravity is extremely 
 vital in surviving the shrine battles. Yes the game is linear, but it surprising how long it is 
 even though its linear. However, there are some places that you can visit which house extremely 
 powerful foes for instance the fire shrine, ice shrine, and wind shrine. But be warned you will 
 need alot of vp items recovery and tons of luck. Unless your characters are well into the lvl 50+ 
 range. I fought in the fire shrine at lvl 35 and its tough. I survived and gained a good amount 
 of lvls there making it to the boss but got quickly owned and had to fight my way out of the shrine. 
 Most of the enemies in these places range from 50-80 so you will get owned mutiple times and if 
 you are not within that lvl range the enemies will always attack first. But they are a good place 
 for testing and honing your tactic skills. The graphics of the game are nice and the main characters 
 are detailed well. The world characters however, sometimes resemble that of xbox 1.5 I guess. Sounds 
 are good since it pretty much shakes my room with my sound system. I believe the value of the game 
 to be high since you can get many golems within the game, get rare items in the casino and build 
 up your golems into powerful allies. The shrines also hold powerful secrets that are guarded by 
 insanely powerful bosses. The fire shrine boss reminded me of ruby weapon when it owned me, heh 
 but that was probably because I was lvl 35. The shrine bosses do full grid attacks that do 1k+ 
 dmg.
  If you like JRPGs then you will enjoy this game. Well I have exactly 51 hours of gameplay and Im 
 at 78% mark. Not much of the game is left I can see that the story will soon wrap itself up. But 
 one thing is for sure I have enjoyed the entire 51 hours of gameplay. Thats my two cents... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Manaka-kun
Rating: 7.4
Date: Sep 8, 2006 12:57 am PT
Review:  Enchanted Arms, as far as I know, is the only turn-based RPG that has been announced for the Xbox 
 360. I may be wrong, but... Whatever. :P
  
  The main story is that Atsuma is a student at a magic school called Enchant University, where they 
 teach Enchanters the art of their trade. Enchanting is just a small part of magic, but it is impossible 
 to explain about this much further without spoiling the plot. Though it does have a heavy influence 
 on Atsuma's right arm...
  
  Gameplay in this game is unique to many other RPG's that are available. One fact, that you seem 
 to find too much lately, is that this game is extremely linear. There isn't a wide sprawling map 
 to explore, your path is shown, you're told exactly what to do, and when you do get a chance to 
 explore, there usually isn't much point. The battle system, however, is one of the better parts 
 of the game.
  
  This game is played on a grid. In battle only, not exploring. But you move your characters around 
 the grid, and launch Enchants at your enemies if they are in range. There is no normal attack choice 
 in this game, everything except items is a form of Enchant. Eveyrthing wastes your EP in this game, 
 yet there is an upside to this, and it is called the VP system.
  
  VP is a stat that is lowered more and more as turns pass by. The longer you take, the more VP you 
 lose. Winning the battle in one go means you lose no VP. Escaping means you lose a larger amount. 
 If your VP is over 0, your HP and EP are completely restored after battle. If your VP is zero, 
 no matter how high your HP has risen due to item use in battle, on the map, HP and EP lower to 
 1. Due to this, items cannot be used on the field.
  
  Another upside to the game is that there is over 104 party members to recruit, with 4 being the 
 main story characters, and the majority being Golems, robotic servants that are powered by the 
 abilities or Enchanters, and act as battle partners or assistants to the user. They can only be 
 used in battle, however, for your party. If you see a Golem standing around in a dungeon, talk 
 to it and defeat it. You get its core, meaning you can synthesise it and make it one of yours. 
 For some, you need to purchase the core then synthesise it.
  
  Graphics in this game, though definetely not as good as games such as The Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion, 
 they are definetely enjoyable to look at. Conversations, however, are just the torso of two of 
 the participating characters in front of a static background that changes depending on the area 
 you are currently in. They do move, though it can get quite dull looking at this. FMV's, however, 
 are the opposite. Just as you would expect from an RPG.
  
  Sound in this game is sub-par. The battle theme could use some serious improvement, but the voice 
 acting, though annoying on some characters (Namely Yuki) , it can work out alright on others. If 
 it annoys you too much, you can always change the voice to Japanese.
  
  This game is definetely worth a shot for any hardcore RPG fan, though otherwise, it is recommended 
 that you rent this game before purchasing it, as the linearity and sometimes long cutscenes can 
 get annoying. Of course, some may enjoy these, and the expanded amount of party members is always 
 a plus, giving you an edge in any situation. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nynthninja
Rating: 9.3
Date: Sep 6, 2006 7:30 pm PT
Review:  Overall this game is a pretty good collection add. but if you break it down into graphics, sound, 
 value.... ect it may not look so appealing... trust me ignore the critics.. Sound- The music is your 
 average rpg-esqe style, mediocre voice acting my bring you down but everyone knows that subtitles 
 are the way to go for an authentic Japanese RPG experience. Graphics- they are pretty much up to 
 my expectations. The 360 is still in its early stage and as with other systems as the games progress 
 so do the graphics so for first wave games this is up to par, not to mention the stunningly beautiful 
 enviorments. Replay Value-I beleive it to be high despite the linear story line the minigames and 
 XBL battles give it the boost an RPG needs. Story-Im only about 20% done and once again i was not 
 let down, the story is easy to get into and is quite intresting at that there seems to be a bit 
 of influence from the Final Fantasy series in here but that does not dissapoint, cause lets face 
 if if you want to take cues from another game FF is the way to go.
  
  In closing this is not a rental this is a definite buy, just depends on how long you want to wait 
 for the price drop i bought it when it came out and have no regrets, but some not as fanatic about 
 rpg might want to wait for that 30-20 dollar price tag. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Trunks35
Rating: 8.3
Date: Sep 7, 2006 11:55 am PT
Review:  Enchanted arms is a solid RPG. The battle system is fun and easy to learn. The graphics in this 
 game are amazing cutescenes and just normal gameplay. The controls are very easy to learn and the 
 camera views are great (and you can change then as u please) The story is very interesting and the 
 characters in this game are cool. I wish they would have made it a little longer though but thats 
 ok. If you are dieing for a RPG and own a 360 this is a must have. It has everything RPG lovers 
 want in a and game and more. I definatly reccomend you pick this game up. Gamespot said after you 
 finish this game you wont remember it but I say after you read there review and play the game you 
 wont remember a thing they said. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zionmaster
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 6, 2006 5:15 pm PT
Review:  I'm not sure how the reviewers gave this game such a crap score. They must not like rpg's or they 
 just scored it low because its not "something new". But just because its not something new doesnt 
 mean its not a great game because what it does it does extremely well. This is a classic turn based 
 rpg and i love every minute of it.
  The graphics are amazing the music is very good and the battle system rocks. I just can't say enough 
 good things about this game. Don't listen to the nay sayers try this game out for yourself and 
 you be the judge. I bet you will be pleasantly surprised. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ericnguyen
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 6, 2006 9:07 am PT
Review:  + Innovative grid system makes it really fun on every battle. RETRY is useful, especially after 
 a long talk/battle and you forget to save. I had to use it once, in a battle with Emperor of Fire, 
 just because I didn; t figure out when to attack... SAVE anywhere is good too. Tight story line. 
 IMO, its story is even better than FFX and FFX2. Sometime the talking is long, but it's ok. - Graphics 
 is so so for a 360 game runs on HDTV. Encounter rate is pretty high sometime makes it annoying. 
 And if you don; t pay attention to your characters' VP, you may go to a battle with character with 
 1 HP & 1 EP. A notification on character status would be a plus. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lucasc389
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 5, 2006 8:08 pm PT
Review:  Wow, its finally here. I have been waiting for this game forever! Since i first heard about it 
 i pre-ordered it and looked foward to it. Here below is a quick review of the game.
  
  The Story starts off with the battle with the ice queen. This quickly fades out as you are Atsuma 
 in class. You fight your way through the evil destruction on the city and eventually make it to 
 the bottom of the sealed area. Then next thing after the epic battle and losses you wake up in 
 a jail cell. I wont spoil what happens in those battles for you and ill let you find out for yourself. 
 Here are some examples of how the game plays out.
  
  Gameplay- When i first heard of the turn based gameplay, i have to admit i was alittle skeptical. 
 Once i actually started playing though i really enjoyed it alot. Its a great change from the original 
 gameplay type of games.
  
  Graphics- People are rating the graphics low saying that they could look better. But im not so 
 sure about that, the environments are beautiful and the characters look very real.
  
  Storyline- The story actually was not that bad. Its a rare idea with some strange characters such 
 as makato. It really gets you hooked with it and leaves you hanging when you beat certain parts. 
 The fact that they are in some sort of high school or college can relate it to that age group making 
 them want to buy the game. Sound- Stunningly great. Everything is syncronized with the game perfectly 
 and the special effects of the game are amazing!
  
  Overall this is a very amazing game and one of the best games for the xbox 360 yet! If you love 
 RPG's this is a must get! Well heck if you love video games this is a must get!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: new-master
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 5, 2006 2:41 pm PT
Review:  this a good game that use the 360 Graphics. the game play is something that we have seen before 
 in other action/rpg gams . the story line is none thing that has not been done. the game takes 
 an hour to even get to any game play, after then it every 10 sec. there a battle. the game play 
 is easy to understand however the bad thing about this game is if you take to long in anyone battle 
 the there is a penalty or if you run their is all so a penalty. the game plays like a ff, game 
 that is long with some good combos moves 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sazreal
Rating: 7.8
Date: Sep 5, 2006 12:51 pm PT
Review:  This game is mixed with me right now. At times, you can feel the classic RPG elements in it, the 
 random fights, leveling up, beautiful graphics. The story is there, but to me it is rather boring 
 by its producer's trying to make you more drawn in to the characters and their back stories. I 
 have ended up pressing the "A" as fast as I can to progress through some of these lulls, because 
 the characters voice over is horrible. Not only that, most of the time they'll only say a couple 
 words before you have to hit the "A" button again, which is a nod to the classical style of RPG 
 story progression, but it's annoying in this game to me for some reason. Which I guess is really 
 where this game fails... lack of gameplay creativity. It's got the new generation graphics, but 
 the gameplay elements are there from the SNES era. you'll pretty much only use the B, A, Y, Start, 
 and direction pad for most of the game. Yet every time you come to a "new" obstacle, they will 
 go through a long progression of speeches to tell you you need to hit the A button to use that 
 object. We should all know by now that "A" is the default "use" button and is generally hit first 
 on trial-and-error situations. They also display the "Press 'A' to use" prompt on all interactive 
 objects, so it's really just a waste of time to listen to some character call your player stupid 
 because he doesn't know how to use a ladder. Which is another flaw with this game, the characters 
 themselves are not standouts.
  
  The main character often comes accross as having the IQ of a mentally handicapped person, yet he's 
 the one who weilds this "golem" arm and all think he's got the greatest power to defeat the "Devil 
 Golems". The main character often comes off being depressing and whiney, if I was in his party 
 I would have left at the beginning when I had to show him how to use a ladder. It really seems 
 like the producers are trying to say that the user's of the game are virgins to video games. The 
 levels are often beautiful, but pointless "A to B" fashion, and really linear. You won't be wanting 
 to go and re-explore the game after you beat it. I've found that most of the houses that you can 
 enter, are pointless ventures that turn up nothing, so after a while you don't even want to talk 
 to NPC's unless you have to, because they don't really give you anything valuable as far as information 
 goes to better items. It looks like they put the foundation work for that in there, but then decided 
 they wasted too much production time and filled it all with useless interactivity.
  
  Where this game really does shine though, is the actual battle elements. The battles take place 
 on a grid, and you can move your characters certain number of cells and attacks only hit certain 
 cells as well. So you can play a lot of strategy in this sense and maximize your attacts. Most 
 of the general battles will take 2 maybe 3 rounds at max, depending on where they place your party 
 on the grid. It is random and sometimes they'll all be scattered to one side, so you spend a couple 
 turns trying to get some of the direct ranged characters into play, and sometimes this will kill 
 you off to. So far though, this has been the main addiction for me in this game, trying to kill 
 the enemies in a good strategy. So having a team that complements each other is critical to success 
 against bosses.
  
  Overall, I'd say this is a solid RPG that is worth a try on the 360, since if you don't like the 
 story, you can just rapid-tap your way through it and not really be lost to where you need to go 
 and what to do. It brings hope to me that producers will bring other games of this genre over to 
 the 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wheeloftime24
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 7, 2006 12:44 pm PT
Review:  I bought this game and I am very impressed. A lot of reviewers are bagging on it because of the 
 horrible english voice acting, and they aren't praising it for its strong points. FFX had horrible 
 voice acting Cough cough (YUNA) , (TIDUS) . Sure this game doesn't push the 360 to its limit, but 
 this was I believe a launch title for japan. If I remember correctly 360 launch titles were developed 
 primarily on beta dev kits. For how good this game looks being developed on a beta dev kit I am 
 impressed.
  
  The graphics to me are great. Sure they aren't oblivion great, but read my comment on graphics 
 above. It isn't bad for a first japanese rpg on the 360. I have played a many japanese rpg on the 
 ps2 before mine broke for the 3rd time and a big chunk of them were junk. I walked out to the festival 
 and I could see balloons flying in the air, leaves were blowing around in the wind. The city looked 
 great. The voice acting is decent, however a real strong point is you can change it to the japanese 
 voice acting, and that is a great bonus for me.
  
  The story line is so far really good. There was a war over a thousand years ago, and golems destroyed 
 the whole land, and for some reason the golems just shut down, no one knows why. I wont go into 
 it more. I don't want to spoil it for people reading this.
  
  You do run from map to map like FFX, but I really enjoy the combat system far more. Its on a grid 
 and you can move your characters around on the grid and engage your enemy. There are lots of skills 
 you can use too.
  
  So far I am really enjoying this music. It isn't blasting in your ears, the music I have heard 
 so far is pretty ambient.
  
  This game is also very long. 40-50 hours.
  
  Its also really cool because you can unlock golems and you can have them fight in your party for 
 you. Its kind of like how in FFX you could summon monsters and they fight for you. Well it takes 
 that to another level in my book.
  
  Right now the 360 doesn't have a lot of killer apps. It is still new, however I consider this one 
 a killer app for the 360
  
  Here is what I play on the 360
  Oblivion
  Lord of the rings battle for middle earth 2
  Enchanted Arms
  FFXI
  
  UPDATE
  This game 
 is in no way shape or form forgetable. I found myself actualy caring about the characters. This 
 game in so many way kicks the crap out of any FF I have ever played including FFXII. You can save 
 anywhere, you can craft your own weapons from cores. You can find and collect and create golems 
 to fight you. You can actualy interact with the world around you, by swimming and such. The graphics 
 are incredible for a launch title in japan. I say if you like japanese rpgs go pick this one up. 
 It is a very engaging story 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spidermanc2k
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 5, 2006 5:31 am PT
Review:  Enchanted arms is probably one of the more important games in the XBox 360 library. It is the only 
 traditional japanese RPG available right now for the system. But, as the first, it is also going 
 to get the most attention as it will be the measuring stick for the quality of future games in 
 this genre. Thankfully, Enchanted Arms gives you a good feeling about the future, as it is a very 
 capable RPG that while not extremely original, can be fun and engaging overall.
  If you're looking for the next Oblivion, then you're in the wrong place. This is is an RPG created 
 in the more traditional fashion. This means there will be lots of random turn-based battles. If 
 this doesn't appeal to you, then odds are that you didn't plan to play this game anyway (given 
 that you did your research) . For everyone else, you'll feel right at home and pick up on the play 
 style very quickly. This turn-based system seems simple at first, but actually involves a lot of 
 strategy. You really have to plan your actions because you have to take into consideration such 
 things as character placement, attack points being spent, attack order, and so on. However, this 
 never requires you to overthink things, which keeps the whole process easy to get into.
  It seems as though the creators of this game were shooting for a style that was similar to the 
 Final Fantasy's of the PS1 and 2 eras. In some ways, they succeeded. You can definitely see the 
 influence in your worldly travels and character designs, but the game doesn't quite hit the standards 
 set by those other games. However, I still was able to find myself getting sucked into the story 
 and its characters, which is always a good thing when it comes to RPGs.
  
  Graphics- Not bad. Shines in some places, but as a 360 game, it only looks slightly better than 
 Final Fantasy X. We expect more. The prerendered cutscenes look pretty good though.
  
  Sound- Although I can deal with it, the english voice acting definitely isn't the best I've heard. 
 The right emotion just doesn't seem to be there most of the time. Music isn't very memorable, but 
 it is fitting. Control - Doesn't require brain surgery. Use the sitck to move around the world, 
 press a button to perform an action. Typical RPG stuff.
  
  Gameplay- The game enough to keep you playing, which is what any RPG should do.
  
  Final Thoughts: 
 This game won't blow you away, but it will definitely give you something to do until your next 
 favorite game comes out. On its own, Enchanted Arms is better than any mid-level PS2 RPG, but misses 
 the mark for the top tier ones. Definitely worth playing.
  
  Its not Final Fantasy, but it'll do. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: realgent777
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 4, 2006 8:58 pm PT
Review:  I would hope the gamers who support Final Fantasy type games and square-enix would truly buy this 
 game and make a good impression is sales and encouraging feedback to the company...
  Msoft is truly trying to show the gaming public that they care about games that immerse and involve 
 you and feel good about playing it in the first place....
  Face it! If we support Enchanted Arms it will give the developers of Blue Dragon and Lost Oddyssey 
 the go-ahead to promote their games in the states...
  the Gameplay is addicting and and their is some startegy in placing your players on the grid.
 
  the graphics and the sound immerse you in the enviornment....
  the gameplay mechanics are sound and the special attacks are thrilling
  the only 2 points I see 
 that are lacking is Yes!, traveling in the worlds in some points could be a little more exciting 
 instead if going straight down a road with no detours..... And plssseee Lose the stereotypes of 
 effeminate male characters with a lisp sheeshhh lol. It has the characters with the spiky hair, 
 good grid for a map is on the side...
  japanese and english soundtrack, over the top special attacks, decent story line.... well it brings 
 together all the elements of any FF lover could want!
  Please gamers buy it! support it ! and bring on Lost Oddysey and Blue dragon at the Tokyo Game 
 Show! Rock On :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wlcm2atl
Rating: 8.9
Date: Sep 4, 2006 8:41 pm PT
Review:  Graphics: For the most part the graphics in the game look great, Character models, spell affects, 
 and the landscape in general. However there are a couple trouble spots namely in some of the cut 
 scenes graphics can look surprisingly chunky, as well as the water in the game looks to clear and 
 ripples seem to from the water seem to effect things around them I especially noticed this early 
 in the game when I walked in a fountain in the town square. But other than these slight imperfections 
 the game looks great if somewhat barren in spots.
  
  Sound: Not much here the sound is adequate. The voice acting is good if not somewhat overplayed; 
 also some of the phrases used in the battle scenes can get repetitive. But the music in the game 
 seems to fit well and complements the game well.
  
  Gameplay: Easily the best part of this game are the battles. All battles are set on a 6x4 grid 
 with allies on one side, and the enemies on the other side. Your attacks affect a certain pattern 
 of squares whether it is a single square or another pattern such as a cross. This players heavily 
 into strategy of the battle by forcing player to align there units in order to do the most damage 
 in one turn. And like any good Japanese RPG there are opposing elements, which do extra or reduced 
 damage in relation to each other. This doesnt seem to play as heavily into the game as it does 
 in other games however it still can be a deciding factor in though battles. Of course there are 
 shops where you can always buy better weapons or skills. Another great addition to the game is 
 the ability to collect golems these magic beings (much like robots) are created by finding/buying 
 the core for the desired golem then finding the appropriate pieces to complete it. These creatures 
 can join your party and help you in battles you will most likely be extremely happy to have these 
 creatures along in your party as they can easily sway the battle in your favor. Storyline: I wont 
 spoil anything for you but this game follows the same basic formula used by all Japanese RPGs. 
 One spiky haired young man with the help of his friends must realize the power that lies within 
 him to defeat an ancient evil that has awakened. Again nothing new for fans of the genre but who 
 said thats bad thing?
  
  Conclusion: Good graphics, an interesting howbeit typical storyline, and that great Japanese RPG 
 sense makes this game a great find, for fans of the genre, and anyone who wants to see what this 
 genre is all about. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: natebayne
Rating: 8.8
Date: Sep 4, 2006 7:11 am PT
Review:  I bought this game as soon as i could in hopes that I could play a great japanese rpg on my 360; 
 I was not dissapointed at all. At first it seems like it could get old fast but then the storyline 
 grabs you and keeps you; I love the idea of the golems and the characters are all full of life, 
 although Atsuma is a bit slow, and truly have personality. The graphics are great; though they 
 could of been better at points; I love the effects for the EX attacks they are colorful and stunning, 
 especially on HD. You pretty much are on a linear path the whole way through but that really doesent 
 diminish from the game much. There are beautiful scenes, compelling storyline, great characters 
 and the bad guys really seem like bad guys. The battle system is great, its not just a simple point 
 and attack such as FF, you have to position and plan your attacks and make sure you're not too 
 aggressive at the same time. I would defiantly recommend ths game to anyone who loves the FF series 
 and rpg's. I defiantly disagree with gamespot's score, this is a fantastic, real-life erasing game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ferratus
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 4, 2006 12:15 am PT
Review:  Enchanted Arms is a Japanese RPG much like the Final Fantasy serie or the Dragon Quest serie of 
 games. As with most JRPG, you are a teen trying to save the world. The story isn't the only thing 
 where eA sticks with the convention. Gameplay is pretty similar to what's been done before including 
 the very interesting battle system that's reminescent of Final Fantasy Tactics.
  
  The gameplay is interesting. Throughout the game, you will collect golems that will join your party 
 (up to 100 or so total) . Each of them has specific attributes and skills so mix and matching can 
 be fun. The fights are pretty nice and even though they are based on random encounters (a-la Final 
 Fantasy) there's a lot of strategy involved in winning them. As with Final Fantasy Tactics, the 
 battleground is made up of a grid. Every turn, each character can move once to a square not occupied 
 by someone else and then do 1 move such as use item, attack or heal. Your attack and defense skills 
 each have a pattern. For example, one attack could have a range of 3 squares straight ahead whereas 
 another could could have a cross pattern. Placing your characters and deciding which move to do 
 make battles a lot more interesting than they typically are in this kind of game.
  
  Graphically, there's nothing spectacular but nothing's very bad either. The game really doesn't 
 feel all that next-gen graphically so if this is something important to you, be warned that you 
 wont be awed like you may have been with Oblivion. That being said, the game does look good, just 
 not spectacular. The sound is OK and many of the dialogs are spoken in english or japanese (your 
 choice) . What's strange is that while many dialogs are, not all of them are. The voices are not 
 bad though not spectacular either. They do get the job done though.
  
  Overall, if you are a fan of the genre, it's a very good game to get. While not perfect, it is 
 really fun to play and it will take a long while to play (at least 40-50 hours from what I can 
 see so far) . Multiplayer won't blow you away but it does add a little replay value. Considering 
 the number of RPGs on the platform, I highly recommend this game if you like JRPG. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cocojack
Rating: 5.5
Date: Sep 3, 2006 9:39 pm PT
Review:  Enchanted arms is a very unoriginal RPG if you want to really get a feeling of this game just go 
 out and buy a regular RPG and think of it having better graphics and physics and all that. This 
 game was interesting at first but as I kept on going it got a little repetivite and eventually 
 disapointing. Now don't get me wrong enchanted arms isn't all that bad it has an adictive online 
 multiplayer and if your like me all those yrs playing FF you just wish you could use your characters 
 against that guy who said oh my Characters are stronger than yours now we can put all that trash 
 talking to the test finally. K Enchanted arms looks like it wasn't finished some areas of the game 
 are so wonderfuly detailed and so alive they just blow me away then there some of those areas of 
 the game where the enviroment is as good as dead and this is where it gets boaring especially with 
 that getting into a battle every 5 seconds which brings me to my next topic. Enchanted Arms can 
 get very Very VEry VERy VERY anoying you just want to get to that certain spot which is like 10 
 steps away and your almost there you can feel it then bam battles like Crazy and they keep coming 
 and coming and coming so if your a person that hate's not being able to go through the story with 
 little battles this is not the game for you walk away and never ever turn back to take another 
 look at this game. well thats it for me bare with me if its a whacky review it's my first hopfully 
 not my last and i'll close it with this "Enchanted Arms is a good try for the Xbox 360's first 
 Japanese RPG but it didn't reach most peoples expectations so if I were you I wouldn't exactly 
 buy the whole game I would rent it instead check it out you know test drive the card and see if 
 you like it or not and move from there". 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kaluaj
Rating: 8.8
Date: Sep 3, 2006 8:58 pm PT
Review:  If you are a fan of classic turn-based RPG style games and love long magic, skill and summon sequences 
 in battle, you will love this game. Enchant Arm almost brings a final fantasy mix into play, especialy 
 from FFVIII and FFX. The graphics set the current bar for next gen RPG's thus far. The story line 
 is just enough to keep you going and the best part is that it throws you in the heat of things 
 from the get go. The battle system is turned bassed tactical. Moving your party members around 
 for the baest possible attacks and deffenses. The picture and sound are good, and there are no 
 major bugs found at this time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tyek_1230
Rating: 7.8
Date: Sep 3, 2006 8:51 pm PT
Review:  I have been waiting for Enchanted Arms for the Xbox 360 for months now, and had my copy reserved. 
 I picked it up August 31, and after playing it for a total of 6 hours so far, it's time for one 
 of my reviews...
  
  ~Contains spoilers~
  
  If you have played any of the famous Final Fantasy games, you will feel right at home playing Enchanted 
 Arms. It has everything a typical JRPG has to offer= turn-based random battles, kickass storyline 
 that involves a very big twist at some point, interesting characters with cool backgrounds, a massive 
 world, and several tens-of-hours of gameplay. Even for those who don't find RPGs interesting, you'll 
 still find Enchanted Arms worth playing.
  
  Just like most RPGs, the main character, here his name is Atsuma, finds out that he has the power 
 to ultimately save or destroy his world (sound familiar?) . Atsuma is an Enchanter at a university 
 in Yokohama City when all hell breaks loose. Caught up in all the ruckus, Atsuma, with a total 
 of over 100 playable characters in the game, go on quests to save the world.
  
  The gameplay in this game is basic RPG style... run around continuing the story with occassional 
 random battles and boss fights in a turn-based fashion. Anymore to say? From the point to where 
 I am up to, the quest seems pretty interesting, but nothing you would have never seen before in 
 other RPGs. The battle system is one of the reasons that make this game fun. You'll just be walking, 
 minding your own business, when all of a sudden a few monsters appear. The battle system, as Ive 
 said before, is turn-based, with a catch, however. It's over a grid-like formation. You can move 
 your characters over a 4x3 grid before you can attack. The attacks are location-based, and overall 
 the battle system adds more strategy then actual fighting. But because of all the things you have 
 to do, even the weaker monsters will take time to kill. The coversations in this game are lengthy... 
 and boy, I mean lengthy. You get to walk around for 3 minutes and then go into a 5 minute long 
 conversation. Then, you get to walk around for another 2 minut... uhh oh, random encounter... and 
 then another 5 minute conversation. They're long, 'nuff said.
  
  I thought the graphics were ok... maybe not as good looking as many other Xbox 360 games, but it 
 could be called average, I guess? The graphics are dull, however. The characters are detailed, 
 but the environment and animation is awkward. Most of the time you'll see open areas of enviromnent 
 with no people or anything. It's like a waste of space or something, and it makes you feel lonely...
 
  
  The sound system is typical RPG= half addicting and half annoying. The music is fun to listen to 
 the first 5 minutes, but it gets tiring fast. And most of the battles have the same background 
 music! Even a few boss fights had the same random encounter music! What was up with that!? Boss 
 fights always have special, higher-rating music! :P And the voice-acting... wow. You'll hear some 
 of the most annoying voices you would ever think possible. This is the English voicing though. 
 You can switch it to Japanese to make it sound uber-nerdy-ness.
  
  One of the cooler features of Enchanted Arms is it's Xbox Live. With your Golem characters, you 
 can fight other people, in ranked or unranked matches. I'd say it would take an average RPG gamer 
 around 30-50 hours to complete the game, possibly longer if you want to do and get EVERYTHING in 
 the game. However, I believe the replay value will be low. Once you're done with Enchanted Arms, 
 it will probably turn into one of those "abandoned games" where you play it every 2 years or so. 
 Im serious. Overall, Enchanted Arms is worth playing for any RPG fan. The game is not that hard 
 and is pretty straightforward, however, with a lot of backtracking. You will need patience to play 
 this game, or else you may break your controller. :P 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thesinginlucas
Rating: 7.1
Date: Sep 3, 2006 6:46 pm PT
Review:  The storyline is interesting and long, but the constant battling with creatures is quite annoying. 
 It seems one can't run or walk for 30 seconds without involuntarily engaging in a fight with a 
 golem. Granted, they're the only way that the characters can level up and earn points, but some 
 of the fighting should be engaged by the actual player. They're too hard sometimes too. And I hate 
 to have to escape from a fight, because it only makes the later fights harder to win. It's a bit 
 irritating and I often find myself throwing my hand up in the air at the thought of another fight. 
 The graphics aren't that great either. For an XBox 360 game, I expected more, and received far 
 less. This console has the capabilities of making environments and characters look extremely real. 
 I'd like to see those capabilities utilized in at least ONE game. The graphics now easily look 
 like they could have been played on an xbox console. Our game developers need to push the envelope 
 a bit more and stretch the "boundaries" of visual and next-gen. gaming improvements which they 
 haven't even come close to reaching yet. I was disappointed with this game and have already lost 
 much interest in it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: masterx1059
Rating: 5.8
Date: Sep 3, 2006 4:19 pm PT
Review:  I'm a bit stunned by the reviews on this game, especially my fellow gamers. Some gamers are giving 
 this game an 8, 9, or even a 10!! I was really looking forward to this RPG, but it didn't take 
 long before I realized I had purchased a bad game. Let see, where do I begin: GRAPHICS: This game, 
 besides the cloth physics, looks like a PS2 game. That's awful. The voice acting is hands down 
 the worst ever in any video game I have ever played. The music sucks, too. The story? Totally unoriginal 
 and boring. The characters? Totally uninteresting. Finally, the battle system, while somewhat entertaining, 
 also left me feeling unsatisfied, especially when, again, the graphics are terrible. I really can't 
 find one thing about this game that I like. Even the cutscenes (which are few and far between) look 
 like a PS2 cutscene. Next gen RPG? I don't think so. Don't be fooled. This is a bad game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dj_neo
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 3, 2006 4:09 pm PT
Review:  I wait a log time for a rpg game like this and now my wish is come true .This game is the best 
 rpg i've played in my life .Enchanted Arms is the best rpg ive played .When i play this game i 
 have a feeling like i m in the game like i m Atsuma and i smash those golems. Those how play this 
 game and don ' t appreciate this game he sucks. Thank you publisher: Ubisoft and Developer: From Software 
 for this wonderfull game. I like this game very very much this is the best rpg ive played in my 
 life and this game is my life game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Djsmiles
Rating: 9.2
Date: Sep 3, 2006 9:55 am PT
Review:  the only word that comes to mind is AMAZING, this game has very good graphix, the battle system 
 is very interesting cause it makes you use strategy, the golems are a cool concept cause it keeps 
 the battles fresh and interesting, my only disappointment would have to be the scenes where the 
 characters interact, all it is, is the old boring text screen, though they put voice acting to 
 it, you'd think that with the next-gen technology they could have fully 3d commentary scenes instead 
 of the classic text screen. other than that this game is worth the puchase, its fun trying to get 
 all of the lil golems to help u fight and the design of the different areas are amazing the cut 
 scenes are pure anime style which is very fun to watch and the slight humor that each character 
 has is fun to listen to. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mw26star
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 2, 2006 8:40 pm PT
Review:  Great looking game with fun game play . The music on the game will make you sleep and the voice 
 acting is pretty bad. If it was not for the great battle system that I like it my have been let 
 down. The story is some time boring and long winded but it pulled my along for the ride. The beginning 
 takes along time but once it was finish the story really begin to go along, taking me for the ride. 
 The battles became harder and the characters styles became more important to winning. With each 
 character having it's own attack pattern and abilities having the right character in your party 
 became the key to winning . Over all it a good game because of the decent story and the great battle 
 system. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: life4hire
Rating: 8.8
Date: Sep 2, 2006 5:15 am PT
Review:  Great game with a compelling storyline. If you like Final Fantasy games with their turn based random 
 battles and boss fights then you will really like this game. Enchanted Arms does not add anything 
 new to the formula but thats because the formula works really good. This RPG is tuned specifically 
 for the Japanese crowd as there are a lot of Japanese type cuddly characters and some minor Japanese 
 dialog. There are no super weapons that dominate the game but there are individual weapons per 
 person and magic per person. You will find yourself involved is quite a bit of strategy. The turn 
 based combat is grid based which make from some amazing turn based fights. At one time all except 
 one person in my team was dead and their bodies would stay on the grid where they died for three 
 turns. I had a caster that could shoot pretty far so I backed here up to the last grid on my side 
 behind the dead bodies on the enemy side and won the match casting spells at the last enemy while 
 he could not get close enough to hit me. Now that is fun!
  
  I highly recommend this game due to the lengthly storyline being roughly 50 hours plus the fun 
 game-play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ronhoon
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 1, 2006 5:10 pm PT
Review:  For starters the battle system is very inovative and interesting, paired with the story and the 
 characters of the JRPG world this is a gamers dream. I couldn't be happier with the game hands 
 down. There are some things that could have been improved on, but they are simply my own personal, 
 views. The fist was if you are going to have voice speaking have it all ways on or always off, 
 that's just my opinion I could be wrong. Secondly why am I always asked weather or not I want to 
 save to my hard drive or memory stick, I mean once is really enough unless I ask to change the 
 destination. Other than that I couldn'y be happier with Enchanted Arms. If you are an RPG fan I 
 suggest picking this game up today, you will be fully entertained. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: x_thedrej_x
Rating: 8.7
Date: Sep 1, 2006 3:12 pm PT
Review:  A great game overall. The story's immersive, the graphics look great, the battle system is innovative. 
 The game itself isn't revolutinary, but what it does it does well. I detest some of the long paths 
 to get from town to town. That could have been much better done. I enjoy the great reflection off 
 of final fantasy viii, because that game was amazing, and this one doesn't let down. The variety 
 of golems is an added up. Just the sheer variety of possibilities. One of the things I noticed 
 graphically that was amazing was any sort of smoke or steam seemed completely realistic. The CGIs 
 and the real-time look were very similar (on the upper-end) if not the same) . I look foward to 
 the sequel of this game, if there is going to be one 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lhaygood
Rating: 7.9
Date: Sep 1, 2006 1:41 pm PT
Review:  I first grabbed an Xbox 360 for Oblivion and other PC-type games that I can't play (Mac user) on 
 my computer. I am pleased overall with the hardware, but my first love is Japanese role-playing 
 games in the Final Fantasy tradition. I was very, very excited for Enchanted Arms to come out, 
 being the first Japanese role-playing game out for the 360.
  
  I like it... OK. it has strong points and weak points compared to the only other 360 RPG out right 
 now (Oblivion) . Unlike Oblivion, it's not as freeform and the graphics are nowhere near as nice. 
 However, unlike Oblivion, it feels a bit more "structured." One of the things I dislike about some 
 American RPGs is the "open" feel they have -- you can literally do anything, and this makes the 
 game feel aimless at points. Additionally, the battles tend to be real time and involve lots of 
 button-mashing. I prefer turn-based games where there is an element of strategy required, and time 
 to think about moves before you make them. Po-tay-to, po-tah-to, right?
  
  However, that being said, sometimes the gameplay and challenge of Enchanted Arms just isn't there, 
 which is fine for me. I'm a casual gamer -- I spend more time studying than I do playing. The storyline 
 is at least engaging, if unoriginal. THE GOOD: I like the battle system. It's innovative. Reminds 
 me a lot of Fire Emblem and Advance Wars. I also like the paucity of weapons and complete absence 
 of armor. Now I don't have to worry about spending unholy amounts of time fighting to earn enough 
 money to outfit everyone in the latest duds. The Golem/weapon creation system isn't bad either, 
 since I know exactly what gets me what. No funky experimentation going on.
  
  Some of the visuals are fun, like EX attacks. It won't win any awards for graphics, but it still 
 looks a lot better than many other RPGs.
  
  THE BAD: The voice-acting. Yeah. I switched back to Japanese. Other than there, there are no real 
 "negatives" to the game. There are some bland points, like the music and backgrounds, but I don't 
 play games for those things.
  
  OVERALL: It's a good game. Rent it first to see if you like it. Maybe buy it later used, unless 
 you're like me and play almost exclusively RPGs, then it's about the only thing there is out there 
 at the moment. Hopefully, good sales will encourage Ubisoft to develop more titles, and maybe, 
 just maybe... we can get some bigger Japanese RPG makers like Namco and Square to start sending 
 us more RPGs for the 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dshenlong
Rating: 7.9
Date: Sep 1, 2006 10:11 am PT
Review:  Besides being the first good j-rpg for the 360, its unique turn based battle system is also intruiging, along 
 with its monster rancher type system where u win, purchase, and then build these organic monsters 
 called golems (also most of the games enemies are golems) and you have to make sure to know which 
 golem is right to take into battle. What is also interesting is that even if a characters not in 
 your party, they'll continue to level up along with you, BUT if they arent in your party when you 
 battle they cannot earn SP (skill points) which allows you to learn skills, and upgrade your stats. 
 The games storyline is interesting so far but I have yet to find that defining moment that stays 
 in your memory forever (such as aeris dying in ff7 s an example) . While this game is fairly impressive 
 (it could garner a sequel) its not quite the perfect rpg, but for fans of j-rpgs this is well worth 
 the buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blk-Gnome
Rating: 8.2
Date: Aug 31, 2006 9:23 pm PT
Review:  While this game does have a few downsides, nothing major so far that has brought the games presentation 
 down. over all the presentation is awsome, i literaly was obsorbed into this game for a couple 
 hours without realizeing it.
  
  At this point in time the story seems pretty fresh, combining several items to create a mystery 
 that the player wants to know more about.
  
  the battle system is awsome, each attack affects a certain area so you have to move your charicter 
 for the best possible combos, as well as damaging the largest number. i hope to see battle systems 
 like this in the future
  
  now the voice acting was good. not great, not horrable, the voices matched the charicters. i didnt 
 even mind makoto, the voice is a little over the top but his lines arnt so gay you cant stand it. 
 in less than 30mins i found him to be humorious rather than that gay charicter. so dont let that 
 change your mind.
  
  so if your into FF, and other turn based rpgs like that... this is a must buy!
  for other gamers, 
 give it a rent. its a pretty good rpg. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jsn187
Rating: 9.8
Date: Aug 31, 2006 7:56 pm PT
Review:  WOW enchanted arms is a sweet JRPG. The first one introduced to the 360 which is even better. I 
 like the cross between FF and skies of arcadia. The graphics are deffently not last gen and as 
 the back of the game said "Experience one of the true next-gen role-playing adventures." The battle 
 grid takes a couple of battles to get used to but other then that the battle sceens and fights 
 are totally awsum. The characters are done nicely and the way you talk to people. i think that 
 enchanted arms is a game for everyone if you dont wanna buy it at least rent it and give it a try 
 i bet you will enjoy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Snake0457
Rating: 9.3
Date: Aug 31, 2006 6:25 pm PT
Review:  Gamespot has a knack for beating up games for all the wrong reasons. For this I offer a list as 
 my review to give my opinion:
  
  Story: Exactly what you'd expect from an RPG, that's good and bad, because the story will often 
 feel overplayed. Still, the story does what it should and it can be fairly interesting at times.
 
  
  Graphics: Very well done overall. Everything comes off sharp and detailed, especially on the character 
 models. Gamespot noted that the characters 'jerk' when changing positions during conversations, 
 but this is standard in RPG's that use this style of dialouge. Enchant effects look great as well, 
 and worth watching just to watch. The worlds can sometimes be barren, but in a sense that just 
 adds to the effect. The camera is positioned a little low during non-battle sequences, but during 
 the battle, the default camera does a great job of showing the entire field.
  
  Gameplay: A well designed fighting system, using a grid to move and attack the enemy. Player and 
 enemy have separate sides so you have to keep in mind how far your attacks will reach. Often enemies 
 will move in range for no real reason, which is somewhat annoying but also necessary to prevent 
 the AI from sticking to a corner while you have no attacks that reach. In addition you'll have 
 access to Golems who fight along side you. They're pretty diverse, and pretty helpful if you know 
 which to choose.
  
  Sound: The voice acting isn't bad, despite what GS says. It's painfully obvious that none of the 
 Gamespot reviewers have never watched dubbed anime, or even played any other Japanese game dubbed. 
 This is one of the best english voice acting teams I've heard in quite a while, and each voice 
 fits the character. Of course, there is a Japanese soundtrack for purists as well, and as always, 
 the Japanese is much better than the English. Battle sounds are basic, and work. And each character 
 has a limited number of phrases they shout each time they attack, more variety would have been 
 nice.
  
  If you're a fan of RPG's, this is definately a solid addition to your library. And for anyone that 
 hasn't played a true Japanese turn based RPG like this, Enchanted Arms is a great game to start 
 off with as well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: madltu2005
Rating: 8.8
Date: Aug 31, 2006 3:34 pm PT
Review:  Supringisingly very good. It's a great JRPG. The gameplay is truly innovative. I like the fact 
 that you can have auto turns and take risk. It really speeds it up. However, you can't always rely 
 on auto move but if you know what your dealing wtih then auto move is spectacular to use. Graphics 
 in this game is great. It has one of those FFX graphics but with better lighting, shadows and metallic 
 look. It really makes the whole world come alive. Humor, drama, action, epic is what this game 
 has. It has all the formula to make a good game and a great story. You dont have to be a hardcore 
 rpg player. This game is fun to play as it is. I'm glad that they took risk and that risk truly 
 became an enjoyable one. I was hesitating at first from bad reviews or having a gread of just okay. 
 However this game is not just okay. It's actually excellent. It really captures the Japanese style 
 Role playing game. It's in a new system out nowhere else but the Xbox 360. I believe the critics 
 was expecting more of a Oblivion or not a repeat of what was done before. I admit this game has 
 Final Fantasy written all over it but better than its past predecesors Pretty much its like an 
 upgrade from Final Fantasy. I love Final Fantasy and I thinks its the only game that really captures 
 every essence of RPGs However, I'm still waiting for Final Fantasy XII and 13th. For the mean time 
 I'm going to enjoying playing Enchanted Arms. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 281538960
Rating: 8.8
Date: Aug 31, 2006 6:12 am PT
Review:  Enchanted arms the new RPG title for the 360 has great gameplay and memorable features. it would'nt 
 be fare calling i the next final fantasy but it surely comes close with the gameplay options and 
 style. The game has its downs because you do not have a choice when doing something which allows 
 you to drag a little. The mission structure of the game is pretty fare and the graphical details 
 are just amazing. The game has its glitches during modes but sertainly that should not stop you 
 from buying this fantastic game, but overall the game has enough features to satisfy any 360 owner. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lunatic321
Rating: 8.9
Date: Aug 31, 2006 4:45 am PT
Review:  Well what can I say, first I have to point out that this is one of only a couple of Xbox 360 titles 
 that I have been impatiently waiting for since I found out about its existence. The game is amazing. 
 While not a perfect game, it is however an amazing one that gives us a positive outlook on the 
 future of RPG's on the 360. The games graphics are amazing. There's a lot of detail in the game. 
 If you have an HDTV then more power to you, as you can enjoy the game in all its glory in full 
 1080i. Trust me it is beautiful in full HD. The battles are turn based but they added a "grid twist". 
 This element throws in a nice tactical touch to the game. Don't think however that it is an overly 
 tactical game. Its not. The tutorials are interesting and are woven into the game play very well. 
 They don't seem like something that was just "added". The tutorials are also very helpful in teaching 
 you various elements of the game and battle system. The sound quality as you can expect is very 
 good. There's a couple of the early scenes where the game can actually make you feel like there 
 is a real earthquake happening. (if you have capable surround sound that is) . The story itself 
 while not entirely academy award material, it is a really good solid story that gives you that 
 "I wonder what happens next" feel. Like I said before this game is not perfect... but then again 
 in the history of gaming how many games have actually been perfect? Not many. The game does however 
 give us a glimpse of what can be done on the 360 with RPG's. Which from the looks of it, we 360 
 owners have something very exciting to look forward to. From Software has set a pretty high bar 
 for others to meet when it comes to RPG's, but the future looks very bright. Now the wait for Blue 
 Dragon begins!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chief9088
Rating: 9.6
Date: Aug 31, 2006 2:46 am PT
Review:  Enchanted arms has been a very antisipated game for some time now. Mostly because of its genres 
 rareness. JRPG's are as rare as a blue moon on the xbox360. but this game sure does show you what 
 youv allways wanted on the 360. And that is a great game with excelant gameplay, graphics, and 
 story. All these elements combine to make the 360s first great JRPG. The only down point to this 
 game ( if u would even consider it a down point) is that the game seems to be very talkative. Another 
 thing is that the battle sequences can be long and drawn out. But thankfully they supply u with 
 a fast foward allowing u to zip through the leangthy displays. Probubly the greatest aspect of 
 this game is its battles. The game offers a very original battle style. that offers two four by 
 3 grids were u place ur charicters and set them up to unleash there attacks. were u place ur charicters 
 allways makes a big diffrance. Some charicters specilize in long range attacks and others short 
 range. This is what adds a whole new thinking scheme to the game. making u think allot harder and 
 plan out great stratagies. This makes the game much more fun in my opinion. Also if u set up ur 
 charicters and choose certin attacks in a certin order, ur charicters will attack with a speed 
 attack . This creates a large numberd hit combo were ur intire team or two at the least. work together 
 in one turn to dispose of the enemy.
  
  All in all this game is an absolute Must buy for JRPG fans. it is original, fun, intuitive, and 
 just an overall great time. Passing this game up would be a big mistake in my opinion. This game 
 is truly a masterpiece. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dannybob
Rating: 8.3
Date: Aug 31, 2006 12:03 am PT
Review:  right from the start you get the feel of Enchanted Arms' quirky nature and dialogue. The relationship 
 between the three main characters is kinda bizarre and hazy, but not unlike that of a standard 
 anime, if you happen to be into that style. The protagonist, Atsuma, is kind of an overly optimistic 
 dimwit that is always the target of his [incredibly] effeminate friend, Makuto's, jokes and insults, 
 while Makuto practically hangs off of Tora, the superfluously intelligent childhood friend. Normally 
 i wouldn't mind such an effeminate male character, but it seems like the creators went overboard 
 and almost tried too hard to make him seem like as much of a female character as possible. It's 
 at least pretty funny sometimes. the way they arranged the dialogue sequences seem to work pretty 
 well, with the conversing characters' images appearing on screen when they talk and the voice acting, 
 while quirky, is pretty good and never really too overdone. the sound in the game is satisfying 
 and the music that comes up every so often is quite good
  
  the in-game graphics were pretty well done. they seemed to have done the environments' textures 
 and lighting effects very well and the character models, while not amazing, are good for the anime 
 style characters. the battle sequences can be pretty fun, and if you wish to just get through them 
 (since they show up somewhat frequently) you can set the battle on automatic and have everything 
 done for you pretty effectively. there's even a convenient option to speed up the action to get 
 through it more quickly. all in all, the game's fun and seems pretty promising, and even though 
 i'm about 3-4 hours into it, i've gotten a good basis of the overall experience. i just feel like 
 the character development and interactions leaves a little to be desired... so far 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigpeternelson
Rating: 7.8
Date: Aug 30, 2006 11:55 pm PT
Review:  Enchanted Arms (EA) is a JRPG that is pretty much the same as all other rpg games. The only real 
 difference is the battle system which takes placed with turn based combat but on a grid. It works 
 the same and is actually very enjoyable - also some battles later on start to take some real strategy.
 
  
  Gameplay:
  
  The gameplay is as mentioned above a high point in EA. Not only is the combat fun but there are 
 tons of golems to collect. A golem is sort of like pokemon, except they fight alongside you, and 
 they are much much cooler. Not to much the sheer amount of them. The only downfall in the gameplay 
 is the amount of random encounters in dungeons can be almost 1/8seconds. Though thankfully you 
 have the option to skip them.
  
  Graphics:
  
  Another high point in the game is the graphics, though the game contains little pre-rendered cutscenes. 
 The game still looks fantastic except for the occasional graphical problem.
  
  Sound:
  
  The voice acting is terrible. Though I accept it because I have never minded much the voices 
 in games, there is an option to listen to the japanese voices. Sound in-game is pretty plain also 
 -- nothing special.
  
  Replayability:
  
  Though I don't think I will go back through the game again soon once I beat it, the average length 
 is something around 40hours which is more then enough. Side quests are few and far between sadly, 
 but there are a few things that encourage another play through; mainly the golems.
  
  Overall:
  
  The game is worth a purchase for all rpg fans and those who are looking for a long 
 game. Actually EA reminds me a shadowhearts 3 - a enjoyable but poorly made and rushed jrpg experience. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: socialninjitsu
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 30, 2006 7:51 pm PT
Review:  On the visual side, the graphics have the perfect look and feel for a traditional Japanese RPG
 
  Except that whoever said it has "last gen" graphics must not have had an HDTV
  They're small, closed in environments like traditional RPGs have used for years, and I actually 
 missed this. The detail is super concentrated and all of the surfaces have impressively detailed 
 textures. The feel is like a classic masterpiece RPG with a twist
  You have to position your characters on a small 'grid' and use a tiny bit of strategy
  Not so 
 much that it gets dry, and the grid is simple to navigate on
  The grid has no mathematical feel, so no worries there
  It just gives you a sense of aiming instinctually
 
  It gives it that much more flare
  
  The beginning of the story is definitely laying the ground for an interesting and immersive story 
 to unfold
  The world feels natural and cozy, fitting exceptionally well with a next gen version of the classic 
 type look of such games
  This classic look and feel concentrated into the detail of the 360's powerful hardware is an amazing 
 breath of fresh air and exactly what I've been hoping ot see since the first xbox appeared, up 
 until now
  
  The loading times, best of all, are incredibly fast. The expensive loading times you are used to 
 coming accross as an expense of exploring previous games like this, are all but gone. This is the 
 kind of gem I've been waiting for since this system came out. Two thumbs up to the creators. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jade233
Rating: 8.8
Date: Aug 30, 2006 7:07 pm PT
Review:  After reading a number of reviews that colored my opinion of this game I admit I was just hoping 
 for a fairly entertaining game that lasted a long time. This game has thus far greatly exceeded 
 my expectations. Does it do anything drastically different than any of the FF games? The answer 
 is no, but I can tell you it does what made those games fun and even adds a few twists. I have 
 only logged 3 hrs but I am looking forward to playing many more. I have only unlocked one achievement 
 and only have obtained 3 golems. This game is a definate for anyone who enjoyed the FF games and 
 is looking for an next-gen take on turn based combat. If people give this game a chance I believe 
 nearly all will be pleasently surprised. One warning... the games dialouge is a little weak at first 
 but if I remember correctly so were a number of games in the final fantasy series. Once you get 
 past that ,and just learn to take it as is, the game is very rewarding... enough typing for now 
 I am going back for more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hintaki
Rating: 9.3
Date: Aug 30, 2006 6:35 pm PT
Review:  This is game is very unique game in its own way, this is a different RPG then the other ones. If 
 you like FF Series or any other type of games that are similar to this game you will enjoy playing 
 this game as well. This is the greatest game for the xbox 360 console and something new for the 
 xbox. I just started this game and this game has wounderful graphics gameplay. This is something 
 new and different that I have played in a while. So this game is very enjoyable doesn't matter 
 what type games that anyone plays this is the one you should try out. If you not sure about this 
 game you should aleast rent it out to see you like it, if you enjoy playing RPG this is the game 
 for you. Over all this game is pretty good so far and I'm enjoy every bit of this game. This is 
 almost like The Legend Of Dragoon game aswell. I would recommend to everyone and aleast try it 
 out. This is a great game for your xbox 360 collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blasphamy
Rating: 8.3
Date: Aug 30, 2006 3:58 pm PT
Review:  FFX for the 360 even down to the music after each battle. Yet it feel different enough to feel 
 new to FF vets. I also like the way it puts a nintendo esqe feel to the dialogue between characters 
 and the pokemon ftouch make it highly addictive. If you are a fan of RPG's on nintendo or PS2 then 
 pick this up your 360 will thank you for it. If all else fails at worst this game is as good as 
 most FF games as well as star ocean so square watch out. The online multiplayer seems just like 
 pokemon when 2 gba's go head to head to fight there pokemon. Oh did i mention the Fire emblem aspect 
 of the fight sequences oh yeah this game is cool. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OmegaHunter9
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 30, 2006 10:18 am PT
Review:  This is one of the best RPGs I have played in a quite a while. The gameplay is engaging and constantly 
 requires you to think due to the set up of combat. Also, the different characters offer great conbinations 
 to work with! The graphics make you drool, even if the mouths aren't animated too much, it prevents 
 it from being over done, a good thing too! The sound isn't cheesy and keeps with the mood of the 
 game. It's value is huge due to all the things to collect and the XBox Live play! The tilt is also 
 maxed out with all this good stuff! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: halokotorgod
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 30, 2006 8:17 am PT
Review:  Enchanteed arms is the first true rpg for the 360 and it is spectacular and everysingle 360 owner 
 that even thinksw about rpg's should get it it is one fo the single greatest rpg (that isnt a ff) . 
 It has an origanol storyline sweet characters and really brings u in the game . The golems too 
 make for a sweet change in an rpg something new that gives powers and other things and no eaons 
 (or at leat nothing like eaons so far) . I hope this game feels like perfection to everyone else 
 have a greate gaming expericence with enchanted arms and enjoy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: peeweeshift
Rating: 6.7
Date: Nov 10, 2006 8:18 am PT
Review:  When i first got this game i did't play through it fully and it had blown me away when i had started 
 it. then slowly it started to get boring. The graphics look really muddy and the sound effects 
 are garbage and repetive. The musical score however was pretty fantastic but the voice acting sounds 
 like somethign from a soul calibur game. The game plays like nothing else. But that doesn't mean 
 it is good. You get to create your party out of many characters (kinda reminds me of chrono cross) 
 and you travel throughout a decent sized world which has some varied settings but not many of them 
 will make you stop to admire and say wow. the battle syste, is what i liked about this game. it 
 reminded me of phantasy star 3 for gamecube but without cards. in the end its a game worth renting 
 if you like rpgs/adventures 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
