-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Enemy Territory: Quake Wars
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/xbox360/action/enemyterritoryquakewars/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Huge maps.
 Large battles get everyone involved.
 Unique gadgets and weaponry.
 Giant missiles.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Overpriced.
 Lacks single-player campaign.
 No story or mission briefings.
 Bland textures and environments.
 No customization or persistent upgrades.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: May 30, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.5
Critic Score: 7.0, 56 Review (s)
User Score: 6.9, 509 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Activision
Developer: Nerve Software
Genre: Sci-Fi First-Person...
Date: May 27, 2008
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Although the objective-based action is still feverish in this console port of Quake Wars, the lack 
 of any upgrades makes this multiplayer-only shooter feel slim and dated. 

  When Enemy Territory: Quake Wars was released in October 2007 on the PC, it was lauded as a feverish 
 multiplayer shooter for its objective-based action set in id Software's rich Quake universe. Naturally, 
 console gamers wanted a piece of the GDF-versus-Strogg action, so id turned to Nerve Software to 
 develop an Xbox 360 port, and to Underground Development for a PlayStation 3 version. The results? 
 Console owners are subjected to two lackluster ports that fail to improve or expand upon the original 
 in any way, making the game feel dated next to worthwhile console shooters such as Call of Duty 
 4 and Rainbow Six: Vegas 2. Something was certainly lost in translation.  

  If you're not familiar with Quake, you're not going to learn anything in Quake Wars. From screenshots 
 you may deduce that humans are fighting alien-type creatures on a planet that may or may not be 
 Earth. Evil aliens known as the Strogg have invaded, and our last defense is, naturally, the Global 
 Defense Force. We're told that the year is 2065 and that the events in Quake Wars serve as a prequel 
 to Quake II. Sadly, this paragraph features more story elements than you'll find in the actual 
 game. If you want to learn more, you'll have plenty of time to type "Quake" into your favorite 
 search engine during the frustratingly long load screens.  

           Come fly with me.      

  As either the GDF or Strogg, you'll do battle on 12 giant 
 maps, each boasting more than a square kilometer of varied terrain and structures. There's your 
 standard city, jungle, tundra, and desert environments, each of which are very well balanced, with 
 a mix of indoor and outdoor areas that give each character class a chance to shine. You can jump 
 into the combat boots of five different classes on each side each with its own unique abilities. 
 Medics heal, engineers construct defense turrets, covert ops sneak and snipe, and field ops deploy 
 artillery and lace targets for massive missile strikes. Missiles hurt.  

  Cooperation is the key in Quake Wars. To succeed, you and your squadmates will have to coordinate 
 attacks and defense using each class's strengths at the appropriate moment. Each map has three 
 objectives that need to be tackled one at a time, which ensures that the battle lines will continually 
 ebb and flow depending on the skills of your squad. For example, you may have to use an engineer 
 to construct a mining laser that will blow open an entrance to an enemy base. The engineer may 
 run behind a heavily armed soldier who clears a path toward the construction site with a grenade 
 launcher. Meanwhile, a medic may follow along, patching up the engineer until the task is completed. 
 Covert operatives, on the other hand, can set up a radar tower to get a bead on nearby enemies 
 and then take them out with a scoped rifle. Finally, a field-ops agent may neutralize enemy defense 
 turrets by calling in an orbital missile strike. Throw in a mix of vehicles, such as giant mechs 
 and attack choppers, and you have one explosive sandbox. This dynamic, objective-based gameplay 
 is really the beauty behind the Enemy Territory formula. Developing a strategy and executing it 
 is exhilarating. In the words of Hannibal of the A-Team, I love it when a plan comes together. 

  Unfortunately, discovering all of the abilities of each class will require you to whip out the 
 instruction booklet because Quake Wars is one of the less accessible shooters in recent memory. 
 In part, that's because there's no true single-player campaign that might, for example, teach you 
 how to use the covert-ops explosive sticky cam or to call in a dark-matter strike as a Strogg oppressor. 
 The single-player "campaign" features the same multiplayer maps, except that they're littered with 
 bots. The Xbox 360 version does have a cursory training mode that teaches you basic mechanics such 
 as how to call in deployables (for instance, radar towers) , but the tutorial is superficial and 
 the training officer's lips don't even move when he talks. Nevertheless, a poorly animated drill 
 sergeant is preferable to the useless PS3 tutorial video that tells you little more than that Quake 
 Wars has classes and that classes do things. The learning curve here is very steep even for veterans 
 of first-person shooters. When you discover all the different tricks available to each class, like 
 disguising yourself as a GDF soldier and teleporting across the map, you'll be impressed at how 
 much there really is for each class to do. It will just take you several hours to figure it out 
 all on your own.  

           Deploy missile launcher, lace target, enjoy the ride.      

  Without a true single-player campaign, you would expect there to be a silly amount of maps and 
 multiplayer game types, but that's not the case in Quake Wars. For your $59.99, you get 12 maps 
 that feature the same objectives each and every time. As grand as the objectives sound -- plant the 
 explosives, hack the computer, construct the giant laser -- they all boil down to the same thing. 
 You choose the appropriate class, run up to the objective, hold down the action button for 20 seconds, 
 and then repeat. Quake Wars has plenty of great moments provided you're playing with a good team, 
 but with the game costing significantly more than the PC version, there really aren't enough to 
 justify the price. Instead, the player count has actually been reduced from 32 on the PC to 16 
 on both consoles, the graphics are nowhere near as sharp, and there's not even a mission briefing 
 to describe what you're doing and why. For an eight-month-old game, this is a complete rip-off. 
 You're better off playing on a PC with a USB controller.  

  It's interesting that id chose two different developers for the separate console versions. Other 
 than shooting and running, everything is controlled differently. Both versions handle relatively 
 well, although true shooter fans will want to turn off the auto-aim, which is so sticky that it 
 should be renamed "FPS for dummies." Between the two console versions, the 360 iteration has a 
 slight edge. The colors are not as sharp, but the menus are much more streamlined, which helps 
 you change class and spawn points on the fly. On the PS3, you have to navigate through different 
 screens using a combination of shoulder buttons, which is not something you want to do in the heat 
 of battle.  

  Quake Wars boasts extensive stat tracking and a persistent ranking system, but you'll have to hunt 
 to find it. Only on the online leaderboards will you discover that you've ascended to the rank 
 of, say, second lieutenant, and that your preferred weapon is the Strogg accurized lacerator. During 
 each battle, you'll earn experience points from secondary objectives such as capturing spawn points 
 or blowing up enemy radar stations. When you accumulate enough XP, you'll unlock extra weapons 
 and proficiencies such as faster sprint and smaller weapon spread. Unlike in Call of Duty 4, these 
 upgrades are not persistent and are reset after each campaign, which lasts for only three maps. 
 This is unfortunate because the two development teams missed an opportunity to add some kind of 
 character customization, a standard feature in any good FPS these days.  

           Mechs make everything better.      

  Though Quake Wars was by no means a gorgeous 
 game on the PC, it absolutely flounders on both consoles. Textures and lighting are not much better 
 than PlayStation 2 and Xbox standards, and effects are completely underwhelming. An orbital laser 
 strike should rattle your screen with fire and brimstone, burning enemy corpses to a T-for-Teen 
 crisp. Instead, the Strogg dark-matter cannon makes it look like the aliens are firing a giant 
 orange flashlight. The environments are massive, yes, but the structures are uninspired and appear 
 to be designed by Soviet cold-war architects. There's none of the lived-in look you would expect 
 to see in an African village or war-torn European city. Walls are blank. Textures are flat. Explosions 
 are soft. At least there is great draw distance so snipers and pilots can rack up kills from across 
 the map with a great shot. The sound is also mediocre, thanks to the repetitive, raspy voice commands 
 from both the Strogg and GDF alike.  

  In terms of value alone, it's difficult to recommend Quake Wars. You'll love the giant sandbox 
 filled with such distinct classes, high-tech weaponry, and attack vehicles. But when limited to 
 only 16 players on just 12 maps, the gameplay is one-dimensional. Next to so many solid console 
 shooters that feature persistent upgrades and customization, along with a variety of multiplayer 
 game modes  in addition to  a single-player campaign, Quake Wars is incredibly shallow. If you're 
 an online shooter fan who has a good group of friends to play with, give Quake Wars a try... on 
 the PC.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (50 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: -Dark_Palladin-
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 22, 2009 2:59 pm PT
Review:  Pros and Cons:
  ---
  +Occasionally funny voice acting.
  +Huge maps to run around and explore.
  +Gadgets and weapons are plenty.
  +Being able to play 
 as Strogg.
  -Horrible online lag.
  -12 maps only.
  -Occasionally boring weapons and gadgets.
  ---
  
  
  There's a rumor, stretching all the 
 way to the N64 days: Games are deveolped for consles, and therefore, always run better on a gaming 
 consle than on a PC. While this is occasionally true, it is not the case for id games. Every id 
 game, except for the oringinal Doom, has always been better on the PC, leaving the consle ports 
 rendered inferior. Its been like this from Quake 1 to Quake Wars, and although its not particularly 
 a bad game, it would definetly be better running on a PC.
  
  
  
  Quake Wars takes you all the way back to the time when earth was first being invaded and earth's 
 defenses were plentiful. The Strogg, a faction of cybernetically enhanced humans are mind-controlled 
 to overun earth, solely to take human flesh and use to to extend their lifespawn and their army. 
 Our last hope is the GDF Global Defense Forces, a large army of Desert Storm-like troops. The two 
 playable teams emerge in a slightly comical battle with hilarious radio chatter and insults in 
 an action packed war, but the story doesn't go far from there.
  
  
  
  Unlike Quake 3, you are told to complete certain objectives for each map, not kill each other. 
 Quake 3 was about deathmatches, CTF, Tourneys, etc. However, Quake Wars goes in the other direction. 
 You don't get any deathmatch mode or CTF or any of that. Instead, you have to destory or build 
 stragey points. For instance, in one mission as the Strogg, you need to work with your team to 
 set explosives on a radar town, while the GDF team tries to keep it explosive-free. You use a number 
 of cool GDF and Strogg gadgets to do these things, as well as a number of GDF and Strogg weaponry, 
 like the hyperblaster and the nailgun. Too bad they aren't all that fun to use.
  
  
  You can choose to play a campaign, which is just like the Instant Action, where you fight againest 
 cpu bots, or you can take the fight to the laggy online mode. The online lags terribly and cannot 
 be fixed, and even without lag, you usually find so little players to the point that the map is 
 almost entirely filled with bots.
  
  
  Quake Wars features only 12 maps, which is extremly unusual for a multiplayer online based game. 
 These 12 maps are huge and allow you to roam around mountains, woods, and anywhere you please, 
 although, staying too far off the map results in instantly dying. They each invovle the same mission 
 over and over again, but 12 maps is alot more than it sounds, and can keep it from becoming repeatitive... for 
 a while. The graphics are fair and fair, and you still run super fast like Quake 3 and 4. But in 
 a way, Quake wars is both recommendable and not. There's not too much involved in the game; if 
 you just want an online shooter to kick back and relax when your bored, Quake Wars is worth at 
 least renting. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ou_dominar
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 12, 2009 11:05 am PT
Review:  The Quake Wars classes have to be learned and experimented with for this game to be the most enjoyable. 
 Get familiar with what they are and what they can do here:
  
  http://en. wikipedia. org/wiki/Quake_Wars#Classes
  
  Quake Wars simply isn't a game that you'll 
 pickup immediately and go "OMG this is the greatest game ever!". You have to spend a little time 
 with it, and experiment with the classes. Once you learn how to use each of the classes, and become 
 more familiar with the missions, it's hard to beat the enjoyment of this game.
  
  The biggest drawback of this game currently (Feb. 2009) , is the population of players for multiplayer. 
 A game like this needs a larger base of players... unfortunately, I feel like the gaming community 
 didn't give this game a fair shake, or perhaps the devs didn't hit the niche at the right time.
 
  
  ... I can't knock this game based on the player base. The mechanics are good, the stragedy base 
 it good. The replayability is also good. 
  
  Also, I can't help but always support games that include system link. Companies that support system 
 link, in my opinion, is a credit to the company. It's a testament (a last ditch effort) , in keeping 
 multiplayer gaming free.
  
  If you want to try out this game, get familiar with the classes and play the single player campaign 
 until you've become familiar with the controls and gameplay. Have fun.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Elitewhitewolf
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 15, 2008 5:59 am PT
Review:  VERY QUICK REVIEW
  I have this game, and to be honest i should have bought battlefield, or something similar instead. 
 The campaign doesnt really feel like a campaign. Its a hastle to load, save and sort out everything. 
 And unless you like sc-fi aliens your better of play humans vs humans in battlefield 2. The first 
 week is pretty fun though. But now that its an old game, go buy the new call of duty or Farcry 
 2. 
  
  (If you find it for 5 euros, 5 pounds or 5 dollars, you might aswell buy it)
  
  And thats pretty much it. 
  
  (the review has to have adleast 100 words so... lol thats lol 
 thats lol thats lol thats lol thats lol thats lol thats lol thats lol thats lol thats lol thats 
 lol thats lol thats lol thats lol thats, thats lol thats it!) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: picklesrocks
Rating: 4
Date: Oct 24, 2008 11:59 am PT
Review:  Quake wars is a team based shooter set in the quake universe and is similar to games like starwars 
 battlefront and was realeased on the PC in 2007 and has now been released on the xbox 360 and playstation 
 3 and for some reason there is actually less content than there was on the PC version leaving the 
 player confused and wondering why on earth there is less content.
  
  Gameplay: Quake wars doesnt have anything siginificantly wrong here, the shooting is fun and the 
 explosions are cool to watch and the inclusion of turrets and artiller make it feel more like a 
 true battlefield. Unlike battlefront and battlefield the game actually relies on objective based 
 maps, for example one team is attacking and the other is defending and the defenders have to prevent 
 an array of enemies accomplishing their objectives which vary from escorting a vehicle, planting 
 explosives, hacking terminals and taking a piece of hardware to a point. The teams however, they 
 may look differently but they essentially play the same with your bog standard classes with solidier, 
 engineer, medic, field ops and covert ops. You can unlock new guns and upgrades but they aren't 
 persistant so every time you finish an apparant campaign which is just 3 maps in a row you're hard 
 earn guns are reset.
  
  Sound: The sound in Quake wars is poor, human guns lack the oomph and the strogg guns sounds completely 
 wrong the vehicles don't sound too bad but the quadbike is one repeated souns over and over again.
 
  
  Online: this is where Quake wars is supposed to excel but it really doesnt, probably because no-one 
 hardly plays online and its almost the exact same as the other modes.
  
  Graphics: quite bog standard but the character models look superb but the terrain looks poor.
 
  
  Conclusion: quake wars on both consoles is a mess and makes the game look like a joke with bad 
 gameplay poor sound and bland graphics. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shermans_HUD
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 2, 2008 4:30 pm PT
Review:  Enemy Territory: Quake Wars is a first person multiplayer shooter released by id Software, well 
 known for the doom franchise along with the original Quake series. The objective of this game is, 
 to put it simply, to complete objectives that will help you win the day. You have two choices of 
 sides you can choose from, Strogg or GDF, and then from there it's running and shooting.
  
  Design and Detail:
  Originally, Enemy Territory was released for the PC as a continuation to 
 the beloved Quake series, but made its migration over to the console side, trading spots with Mass 
 Effect. Now, this is where it gets better. Overall, the transition from PC shooter to Console was 
 one of the best ID could have done. If you're running a poor computer, like yours truly, then the 
 graphics in this game tend to look very pixilated and distorted, but once you move to a console 
 whose sole purpose is to play games, then it becomes a graphics haven. The landscapes make you 
 feel as if you are there in the scene, but don't have that destructive quality that most of us 
 look for in a FPS. Now, during gameplay, one of the most prominent features that any First Person 
 Shooter usually falls on is the weaponry. Yes, the guns go boom, and the tanks and high caliber 
 rounds do go boom, but the gun itself looks like it was pulled from Quake 3 Arena, and yes I know 
 these games were both made by the same company, but they could have pushed it a little farther 
 than just cut and paste.
  
  Artificial Intelligence:
  The one thing that makes all games great is the AI inside, but when it comes to this game, don't 
 expect the smartest enemies and friendlies in the world. The enemy, when confronted with you and 
 your team, tend to just stand still and fire away, which makes it easier for you to just toss a 
 grenade their way and move to the objective. Minor glitches in the game will have your teammates 
 running into walls and never backing away, while you just walk through the level completing objectives 
 and winning the day. What can be said about the AI in here is they never give up on killing you, 
 so this could be considered a basic FPS game.
  
  Sound and Audio:
  Several scores from id make the game seem more bearable, but tend to fade out during battle, so 
 be expecting to plug in your MP3 player to your console and listen to that instead. Voice tracks 
 for the game continue to repeat and drone on, showing no end until you either leave the game or 
 mute all voice as best you can. Vehicle tracks are fairly well done; with the vehicle getting closer 
 it fades in, then with it passing by it fades out.
  
  Multiplayer:
  To be perfectly honest, this is going to be the best part of the game. No retarded AI, great voice 
 chat, and better difficulty than regular campaign. Multiplayer is divided up into death match, 
 team death match, objective, and a smaller version of capture the flag. But like I said the best 
 part is going to be the lack of AI.
  
  Controls:
  Controls are really easy to figure out in this game. If you are a FPS freak, and have played a 
 lot of Halo or Call of Duty, then the control scheme should fit in with everything else that you 
 play.
  
  Final Thought:
  The transition from PC to console has shown its good side and bad side in games, but when a game 
 comes along that did really well on PC, you would think that it should do great on a console. This 
 game looks like a winner in this market. AI glitches are never a forgotten thing in games, and 
 you can see a good amount in best selling games. If you've played Enemy Territory on your computer 
 and liked it, then give this game a try and download the demo off of Xbox Live. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: matrix_99x
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 29, 2008 5:16 pm PT
Review:  I know alot of people complain about this game having lack luster graphics but come on people could 
 you imagine how many disks it would take to have the game on and how long it would take to load 
 each time. How many multiplayer games have maps that span a 1/4 mile in all directions with 100% 
 free roam capacity? I like the fact that it feels like you are actually outside and if you get 
 to a good spot its not by glitching. I am not saying the graphics are as robust as even previous 
 id games but I am looking at what they could do next, that's the way id works. I love the team 
 multiplayer on this. Unlike COD4 where people just "run and gun" and no one ever really plays like 
 a team cause you don't need to, this game forces everyone to actually think in battle field terms. 
 It is almost impossible to actually complete the objectives by yourself and I like that. Also you 
 just don't xp by how many you kill, but rather on if you complete your role and objectives. Another 
 positive is the accuracy system. No more "Halo" jumping! This game actually actually works the 
 way it should. You get penalized for what you do in shooting rather than doing things to up it 
 (Top to bottom style) . This is first true team multiplayer game in my opinion and I can hardly 
 wait to see if they expand on this model (maybe with some graphic upgrades) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aryoshi
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 16, 2008 3:08 am PT
Review:  Quake has been around for a long while as we all know. The wonderful minds behind Doom are to thank 
 for this (thanks iD!)
  
  What we have here is a different game in the line of Quake. It's not a part of the series line, 
 but is an entirely different game on its own. This FPS is highly strategic and along with thinking, 
 forces you to react quickly in any harsh situation yet at the same time will cause you to learn 
 some patience. I'll get to the reason why you need patience with this.
  
  There a number of campaigns you can take part in, each one being a seperate section of Earth, such 
 as Europe, the Pacific, North America, Africa, and so on. Aside picking your campaign freely, you 
 are also able to choose which side you wish to be on: GDF (who are the good guys) and the Strogg 
 (bad guys) . Each campaign has three different levels in which you do a number of tasks in. 
  
  In order to complete such tasks, you must pick a class appropriate to whatever it is you must 
 do (it will tell you if you will be able to complete the objective with the class you select) which 
 can include defending, infiltrating, repairing, destroying, escorting, and so on. You can also 
 be a medic. You can change your class anytime during the game.
  
  The patience part I mentioned above will be explained now. If you want to be successful in "defending" 
 missions/objectives, you will need to learn patience. You have a countdown timer of how long you 
 have to defend until the mission ends, and if you're successful in defending at least one of the 
 primary defense objectives, you win. Thing with this is that you'll be spending up to 20 long minutes 
 fighting and waiting. 
  
  Your classes also can go up in rank. Aside from choosing campaign and all, you have a number of 
 difficulties to do these in. Each difficulty has its own records, so say if you beat the game in 
 Easy mode, it will be a new game in Normal or Hard.
  
  Good: Excellent strategic gameplay, lots of explosions, good team AI, wide varity of vehicles to 
 use, the ability to choose what part you want to play and also what side, campaign is at your own 
 pace, you never run out of lives.
  
  Bad: Next to horrible enemy AI, long and tedious objectives can be a bore, lack of weapons, small 
 environment, short gameplay, lack of a good storyline, crap driving controls.
  
  Graphics: Visuals really aren't all that bad, yet they're not the best to see as far as the 360 
 goes. The lighting and explosion details are pretty good, but character detail really isn't that 
 well-done.
  
  Sound/Music: Most of the music is quiet and inaudiable, most of the music you hear is in the main 
 menu. Sound quality is actually pretty good, although the voice-acting is a little strange and 
 seems as if the voice actors didn't really give a rip.
  
  Difficulty: Depending on your difficulty settings of course, the game is fairly easy once you have 
 a grasp on what to do.
  
  Gameplay: A little different from the Quake we all know, this isn't a very bad addition to the 
 franchise. It does seem a little harshly underrated, it isn't that bad of a game, but as far as 
 updates and such go, they could use a few.
  
  Controls: Probably the most annoying part of controls is the driving as I stated before. The layout 
 would seem like that of Halo, but it's not. It turns out to be quite confusing, and they should've 
 paid more attention to it. As far as everything else, the controls are easy to handle, probably 
 what you'd expect from this type of game.
  
  Overall: Don't fall for all the horrible ratings for this game, it was an alright attempt. It just 
 has somewhat broken gameplay and the controls leave much to be desired, let alone a good story. 
 The rest of the game is pretty nifty, but I would honestly wait if I were you to buy it after it 
 goes down from $60. It is worth a good $30 if you're willing to cash in for it. As for hardcore 
 Quake fans? Don't get your hopes up about this one either, but still a good one to add to your 
 collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lacedelli
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 22, 2008 6:09 pm PT
Review:  Playing Enemy Territory: Quake Wars, was a nice retro experience, I felt like playing CS, really, 
 the graphics are not really the best I admit it, but the gameplay was good, you can call in turrets, 
 flak cannons, and it was the only game that ACTUALLY lets you pick weapons on each class, that 
 was a nice touch, I struggled a little with vehicle driving at the beginning, the game was overall 
 a good experience, tough I do have a few complaints with the achievements, I had to beat the easy, 
 normal, and hard campaigns to get the achievements, I really spent a lot of time on that, I enjoyed 
 calling in flak cannons and using them to attack or defend postions, destroying tanks and the like, 
 another really remarkable thing was the Level up thing they had going on the game, that was like 
 when you give a dog a prize for being a good boy.
  
  I guess this game is the vivid representation of the phrase don't judge a book by it's cover. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jeff917
Rating: 1
Date: Aug 16, 2008 1:49 pm PT
Review:  Warning: The opinions expressed in the following review are NOT endorsed by anyone at Gamespot 
 or any professional reviewer. I'm not paid for my reviews and I do them for fun. They may contain: 
 Foul Language, Violence, references to farts, A lot of references to the word "Poo" totally bodily 
 function loss, or possibly the total collapse of civilization as we know. Oh also reading these 
 reviews you may feel the need to toss a Midget or start a Cripple fight. There is a longer list 
 of things that could happen but I don't feel like posting them here. You have been Warned.
  
  Learning Curve: 30 Minutes
  
  Score: 1 out of 10
  
  Now I admitted I didn't finish 
 in my Quake 4 review that I never finished the game, because in my opinion I thought it was too 
 long, if I had a chance to either play that game through or play this abomination of a game I would 
 gladly have played Quake 4, if you can't tell this review isn't going to be a good one for Quake 
 Wars, Where to start, how about the real lack of instruction, I started a game and without any 
 real instruction I'm placed in Africa somewhere and I'm told to do this, this and this. So unless 
 you played the training, which I will admit I didn't because I thought this would have been a standard 
 shooter not a freaking mess! and for 60 bucks that's what you get a freaking mess! Also just so 
 everyone knows I only played the game on easy which is the lowest setting for difficulty possible. 
 How sad is it? you either have a really long game in Quake 4 or a game that is a incoherent mess 
 like Quake Wars. So due to either just plain luck or divine intervention I completed Africa and 
 now I'm in north America I got part 1 done of North America and now I was on part 2 this is where 
 it broke the last straw. I was told to guard some generator did it say how long? No if it did I 
 didn't see it but that's ok because the graphics suck the sounds and voices aren't much better 
 either. In fact I think they are worst than they were in Quake 4, hell this game is in the league 
 as Turok: Rage Wars for the N64 and Star Trek Voyager: Elite Force for the PS2. This is Bull, we 
 are in the year 2008 and game makers can't figure out that games that look like a pile of vomit 
 aren't wanted anymore, it was different back in the 80's because we didn't have any real way to 
 review them and let people know this is just a sad waste of time to make money off of a formerly 
 great product. So after freaking guarding that generator for at least 5 minutes I got bored so 
 I went and captured a enemy spawn point, made progress right? NO! because the minute I captured 
 it I was killed this didn't happen once or twice but 7 freaking times. The AI is freaking unbalanced 
 in this game at points it's almost stupid than other times it could give Einstein a run for his 
 money. You have a map but does it really give clear instructions? NO! all it does is show little 
 symbols so unless your a hardcore player of this game the casual player won't know what the hell 
 he's doing. So now lets talk about the menu of the game you have campaign, instant action and XBox 
 Live (I think) after trying to play the campaign and only getting my blood pressure to new levels 
 of risk I didn't play the multi player because odds are if there is anyone who plays it online 
 they are the best of the best and I don't want to get pissed anymore. So all in all we have ugly 
 graphics that look like they should be on the N64, sounds and voices that are pre PS1, no real 
 storyline or instructions and a god awful AI this game gets a freaking 1 out of 10, and let it 
 be known when the next XBox is released and they look back at some of the crappy games for that 
 system let this be on the top 3!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: kypokillz1
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 27, 2008 11:04 pm PT
Review:  I'm not as harsh a reviewer as most others are, so this passes as an OK game. Let's start off with 
 an Overview. Basically, you are either the GDF or the Strogg (In either campaign or multiplayer) 
 and you fight off in timed missions with separate objectives, kinda like Team Fortress 2. Campaign, 
 if I'm not mistaken, is just like multiplayer, but with the "Campaign" title. When a game begins, 
 you have 5 classes to choose from, each class can complete different objectives, and has a handful 
 of weapons. From there, you just demolish the opposing team. The controls fit in well. The graphics 
 are again minimal for the 360, like Quake 4 and Halo 3. Sounds are decent if not great. This game 
 is very addicting, no need telling you, since you've ALL played it. The enemy AI is pretty good, 
 they hit hard when in numbers. I didn't have gold at the time, therefore I couldn't try out the 
 multiplayer Enemy Territory: Quake Wars was built on.
  If your out of things to play (And I mean NOTHING else) rent this, it definitely NOT worth a full 
 60 bucks. Think of it more as a last resort. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ballinup
Rating: 2.5
Date: Jul 25, 2008 7:16 pm PT
Review:  Completely utterly terrible. You would have to pay me to play this game. Its just terrible. I dont 
 know how someone can like this. Its just a horid game and was a complete waste of my money. I dont 
 even know how to describe it, it is just sucky. When walking it feels like you are ice skating 
 very fast, graphics are something to laugh about. Controls are just nonsense. Yes its a cool addition 
 with all the vehicles but they executed it so terrible. The game is terrible online, I am not sure 
 if PC is good but this is a complete waste of time. Online is the best part of the game, now imagine 
 what the offline is!!! Yep you guessed right, a insane disaster. If You truly liked this game come 
 tell me, i will put you in a record book. I think you will be under the category of worst gaming 
 taste ever. Maybe you had a different experience in the game than me but maybe you should do a 
 little rethinking. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spartan_209
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 24, 2008 11:18 am PT
Review:  quake wars takes places before the events of quake 4. it's 2065 the strog attack earth. that's the 
 whole story there is no cutscene at all. this game is like star wars battlefrount you have two sides 
 to to be the humans or the strog. strog have lasor guns, mech walker, lasor turrets, remote drone and 
 more. humans get jeeps, atvs, drop ship, machine guns, much more. now the game play feel like battle 
 front the bot ai is smart you get loads of weapons to use. the enivorments don't look that good 
 but you get over 12 maps to play on you also get a little campain to play but it's just a bunch 
 of bot matches it's easy the only like real story in the training mission the guy who helps you 
 dons'et moves his lips. but i think it's in ok game .but i think wite want to check your pice tag 
 60.00 wait for it to be least 40 or 20 but it's a good game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cowb0ysFaN15
Rating: 1
Date: Jul 20, 2008 12:21 pm PT
Review:  this game sucks. and thats a overstatement this game sucks more then paris hilton. the game lacks 
 in every aspect that you would like to see there is no story so you dont know what you are doing 
 even in mission you dont even know this game is so stupid it's just awful. the graphics look like 
 little clay people and when your not the humans your guns suck and have no effect. this should 
 have just been a stradegy game. i hate this game so much i would rather play nes i mean come on 
 why make a game like this. even the online game is boring and lacks intrest. insted of having this 
 game released they should have just made a game where you just sit in a white room and draw with 
 crayons becuase this game sucks and im sorry for anyone who paid full price for this game because 
 if i found this game laying in the garbage (that is where it belongs) i would just leave it there 
 because its just like someone putting you in a room and you have to figure out what they want you 
 to do. so i recommend you dont get this god awful game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: SteamPipe
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 19, 2008 11:03 pm PT
Review:  Enemy Territory Quake Wars is multiplayer FPS on the PC, it has recently been ported to the Xbox 
 360 and PS3 though. To start, Enemy Territory Quake Wars has a pretty good multiplayer component 
 , but it lacks in depth or a good single player game. Thank Jeebus though that it has a fun multiplayer 
 good enough to last you maybe a couple of months at most.
  The game's graphics mind blowing or cutting edge but they are still good and hold up well on the 
 Xbox 360. I haven't played the Ps3 version so I don't know about the tech on that version. 
  
  Another thing the game lacks is that there is only 2 game modes. There good at first ,but they 
 get old. The campaign isn't worth playing at all, you mise well play instant action and play the 
 good levels. The vehicles are cool and easy to use, except the aircrafts which have horrible control. 
 
  
  There isn't really much more to say about ETQWs accept that in the end it is a fun ,but typical 
 run in the middle FPS.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ram_martai
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 16, 2008 3:26 pm PT
Review:  Well, this is another Quake game that has humans facing against the lethal Strogg, it is based 
 on Earth before Quake 2 takes place. The Strogg try to invade Earth and the humans must defend 
 the planet against them. In the campaign you can play as GDF (Humans) or the Strogg, there are 
 three difficulty levels and four sections to the campaign, the disapointing factor is that there 
 is not set plot for the campaign. It was all just menu based and no cool cutscenes what you get 
 in most games. The game itself is pretty good, you can choose from many classes of soldier or Strogg 
 and you have many vehicles to drive. There is no skill involved when shooting at enemies, there 
 is an auto aim feature when you engage an enemy in combat, this is good for all player so people 
 are guaranteed to get atleast one kill but it makes getting away hard. This isn't the kind of game 
 I would like to play non stop because the levels are too much the same and there isnt a variety 
 of game modes. When you have to defend as a team, on the campaign it is for 20 minutes and for 
 me that is too long to defend. With multiplayer features you can edit the game to your liking so 
 no need to wait 20 minutes to defend, online mode is good aswell because you can have bots forfill 
 up empty places instead of waiting on one or two more people.
  Overall I think this game is worth a try for everyone who enjoys online shooters, the graphics 
 in this game are good just like most games on the 360, the controls are good because they match 
 up to most other shooting games on the 360. That's all I have to say really. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Domstercool
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 10, 2008 2:46 am PT
Review:  When you think about consoles and online together, only one thing should really enter your mind, 
 and that is Xbox Live. The service really did justice for the console market; it showed how a dedicated 
 online service could work for a console. There was none of this rubbish that came with the Playstation 
 2 and oh god, don't get me started on how awful the GameCube's online attempt was. All you needed 
 to do was make a Gamertag and then every game that had an online featured would use your Gamertag 
 to ID you in the game. It worked wonders and was taken one step further with the release of the 
 Xbox 360. Other companies decided that Microsoft had the right idea (well Nintendo didn't think 
 so, god damn those friend codes!) and rightly so because it is still the best online service out 
 there. Even if you hate Microsoft, you really do have to give it to them for kick starting the, 
 what was at the time, lacklustre online console market.
  
  It's because of how well the online has been shaped on consoles that a lot more developers are 
 creating games that are specifically made for playing over the internet. A few years ago you would 
 only find these types of games on the PC, but now they are coming by the bucket load to infest 
 your TV screen. The latest one to come along is Splash Damage's Enemy Territory: Quake wars. Nerve 
 Software is the developer who has been given the task to port the game to the Xbox 360, and that's 
 what they have done; it's a straight up port with nothing new added. What's left is a game that 
 actually isn't as good to play as the PC counterpart.
  
  If you don't know what the name is tagged in front of Quake Wars, then you've probably not heard 
 of Return to Castle Wolfenstein: Enemy Territory; a free PC game that was all based on multiplayer 
 class based team work. It was set during World War 2, with the players taking either the side of 
 the Allies or Axis, doing team based objectives while shooting each other in the head. Quake Wars 
 was the next step in the evolution of the Enemy Territory series. It takes the same concept but 
 applies it to the Quake universe. That means it's now the GDF taking on the Strogg. If these names 
 mean nothing to you, then don't worry as the game has no story what so ever. It's got an introduction 
 that sets the scene of the war, then you're free to go in and kick alien arse, or human booty if 
 you're feeling nasty. For people who are fans of Quake, the game is supposedly set before Quake 
 2, but really you wouldn't be able to tell if it didn't say.
  
  To play Quake Wars you need to select one of two sides to play as. The GDF are the good guys, the 
 guys who are doing everything they can to protect Earth from alien invasion (I'm sure our planet 
 has been in this situation time and time again) . The Strogg are the alien gits who think they can 
 come down and take over our lovely world. Once you've selected a side, you've got to select a class. 
 They are five classes to choose between, it doesn't matter which side you pick because even though 
 they have different names for the classes on each team, you will be doing the same role, just with 
 some different tactics or weapons. The Soldier/Aggressor is the main attacking class, the standard 
 soldier. Field Ops/Oppressors are the backup class, supplying help with ammo and support strikes. 
 Medic/Technician doesn't really need explaining (they heal stuff!) and I'm sure the Engineer/Constructor 
 class doesn't need explaining either (they fix stuff!) . The last class is the Covert Ops/Infiltrator. 
 These guys are the sneaky sniper dudes who have to get behind enemy lines to hack or spy on the 
 opposition.
  
  
  
  Quake Wars tries to make the classes play deeper than other class based multiplayer games on the 
 market. Normally you would take your class and go help other squad members take flags, kill or 
 whatever it is you do in those other games. You'll also be doing that in Quake Wars, but also available 
 to you are specific objectives that only certain classes will be able to do. For example there 
 might be a shield blocking a way to a generator that needs destroying. The only class that can 
 hack into the shield system are the Covert Ops class. That means if no one is that class then you 
 can't do the objective. It's a neat idea because it actually makes those classes distinctive. It 
 adds that touch to the game, so whichever class you choose to be, you feel important because they 
 are jobs you'll have to do in the game to help your entire team progress with the mission. The 
 game is a lot more objective based than, say, others like Battlefield. It acts as a campaign rather 
 than an all out capture game.
  
  Speaking of campaign, the game includes an offline A. I. bot filled campaign mode. This is essentially 
 the online campaign game setting, offline. When I say campaign, I don't mean story filled cut-scenes 
 and the like (this game lacks any sort of story remember) . The game has four continents, with each 
 location having three maps. Once you start a campaign game setting on one of the continents, you'll 
 start on the first map of the three. Whoever wins that map keeps the win, then the next map is 
 loaded and the fight continues, and you'll keep all your stat increases and any other things you've 
 gained during the first map. Playing with bots is, like with a lot of multiplayer centric games, 
 a bore fest. They are predictable and quite easy to kill. The only times when they aren't predictable 
 is when you are trying to get them to help you, instead they go bugger off somewhere else with 
 their own agenda in mind, seems like they should be in a squad known as Bad Company. You'll only 
 play this single mode if you want achievements as there are a few to gain from playing the offline 
 campaign.
  
  Like I've said, this is an online shooter and so it needs to be online, bots can never cut it like 
 us humans can. Now I know I said it was a straight port of the PC version, which it is, but going 
 online reveals that some stuff has actually been removed for the 360 version. If you are a Quake 
 Wars PC veteran, you'll instantly notice the player limitation in online games. The PC version 
 allowed for up to 32 players to square off at each other. The Xbox 360 version is squished down 
 to half of that. I don't know why they couldn't add more players. If games like Frontlines can 
 do it, then surely something could have been done to help add more players to the servers. It makes 
 the game feel less hectic and crowded because the maps are unaltered to fit in with the less players 
 that occupy them.
  
  The rewards you get for levelling up your class is also altered somewhat. If you do well as the 
 class you are playing in the level, you'll be rewarded with some goodies that upgrade you. You'll 
 keep these throughout the three map campaign, but will lose them once you move onto the next campaign. 
 In the PC version, you would be able to see what you'd unlocked in the classes and each class had 
 specific unlockables assigned to it, along with some general ones. In the 360 version, it doesn't 
 allow you to look at what you've gained; you'll see 3 symbols appear on the screen to tell you 
 what you've just gained from levelling up that class. It seemed that each class got the same upgrades; 
 also the ones you got from vehicle usage in the PC version don't even make the cut in the Xbox 
 360 game.
  
  Stat tracking was a major thing about the PC version. You could login into the Quake Wars website 
 and look at your army rank and stats. There were thousands to look at, each broken down to what 
 class you played with. There's no website on the 360 version, which I guess is somewhat understandable 
 since not many games on the 360 do the webpage stat collection. Even so the game does keep a good 
 amount of stats, not quite as many as the PC version, but it's safe to say you can see what army 
 ranking you are, what badges you've unlocked and how well you are doing with a certain class. This 
 is done by going to the leaderboards section and finding your Gamertag on the list. It's nice to 
 see most of them still there as everybody loves random stat information.
  
  
  
  Control wise there have been some weird decisions by the development team. You can only cycle one 
 way through your weapons. This means that if you've gone past the weapon you want to use, you've 
 got to cycle all way through them again, pretty screwed up if someone is popping your arse with 
 their machine gun, it's same for the tools too. Another one is that the d-pad is used for displaying 
 a larger version of the map, thing is the map doesn't stay on the screen when you let go. A problem 
 if you are in the heat of battle or want to get somewhere, you've got to have bent fingers to run 
 and have the map up at the same time. Loading is somewhat of an issue as well. When you first put 
 the game in to the system, before anything comes up, the game will show a loading screen for around 
 20 seconds. The levels themselves take even longer to load.
  
  Player count isn't the only thing to have been reduced in this Xbox 360 port. The graphics have 
 taken a bit of a beating as well. The game uses the Doom 3 engine along with a new feature added 
 in called the MegaTexture technology. The PC version did shine out at points with some pretty lighting 
 effects and some nice looking levels. The same levels are included in the 360 version but have 
 been toned down to make way for a decent frame rate. To get an idea of the graphics, it could be 
 said that all the developer has done is taken the game from the PC and moved the slider from "very 
 high" to "medium" on all of the graphical settings. Everything looks as if it has had the life 
 and soul sucked from it. What you are left with is a game that looks less clear, muddier and duller 
 than the PC version. On a plus side the draw distance seems to be still as far as it was on the 
 PC.
  
  The sound is pretty mediocre as well. Weapons never really seem to have that "UMPH" sound effect, 
 like the weapon is missing that packing a punch sound. Nothing really seems to standout in either 
 graphics or sound in this game. It's a good job the gameplay is fun enough to divert your attention.
 
  
  There are probably two types of people who are looking into this game. Group 1 doesn't really play 
 PC games and are wondering if it is worthwhile to test out Quake Wars. I can say that if you are 
 a huge fan of shooters than Quake Wars might just be worth your time. If you are a fan of fancy 
 graphics then the game won't do anything for you and you'll probably be turned away by the ancient 
 look of the game. People who don't care for graphics will find a game that's quite fun and somewhat 
 unique in its multiplayer shenanigans. The classes are more complex and objective focus driven 
 then any of the other multiplayer shooters out there.
  
  The other group will be people who have played the PC game, or have a decent gaming PC machine. 
 If you are in this group then it's easy to tell you that you should stick to the superior PC version. 
 If you've not played it on the PC and have a decent machine then it's a no brainer that you should 
 ignore this one and go find the PC version, which is better, with more players, and also 20+ cheaper. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nephallim
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 9, 2008 3:42 pm PT
Review:  I have mixed feelings about Enemy Territory: Quake Wars.
  
  For starters, I am not a Quake fan. Not to say that I don't like the series, I have just never 
 gotten into it. Hell, I've never played a single game. In that regard, have no clue whatsoever 
 as to the story of what is going on in the Quake universe. There is a small intro cinematic of 
 Strogg ships slipping into orbit around Earth and generally laying siege to the planet, so it is 
 at least clear they they are the bad guys to be defeated.
  
  Go Team Earth... or something.
  
  As with all of my impressions/reviews, I went to go check 
 out the GS review. I should stop that, since it just makes me want to put three or four nails through 
 a stout board and beat various members of the GS staff for their absurdity and general lack of 
 professionalism. Let's start with the opener...
  
  "Although the objective-based action is still feverish in this console port of Quake Wars, the 
 lack of any upgrades makes this multiplayer-only shooter feel slim and dated."
  
  Okay, the Xbox 360 (and PS3) version (s) of the game are ports from the earlier PC release. The 
 key word there is port. That means it is fundamentally the same game translated over to a different 
 medium. I cannot figure out why anyone, let alone a supposed professional, would think that a port 
 should have to be upgraded or somehow more than the original. It's ridiculous to think less of 
 the game because it didn't do anything differently than it did on an earlier release. Plus, it 
 isn't multiplayer-only. You can play it single-player. What he means there is that there is no 
 single-player story to play through. I know that is a small nitpick, but we ARE talking about supposed 
 professionals here, so be accurate.
  
  "If you're not familiar with Quake, you're not going to learn anything in Quake Wars. From screenshots 
 you may deduce that humans are fighting alien-type creatures on a planet that may or may not be 
 Earth. Evil aliens known as the Strogg have invaded, and our last defense is, naturally, the Global 
 Defense Force. We're told that the year is 2065 and that the events in Quake Wars serve as a prequel 
 to Quake II. Sadly, this paragraph features more story elements than you'll find in the actual 
 game. If you want to learn more, you'll have plenty of time to type "Quake" into your favorite 
 search engine during the frustratingly long load screens."
  
  The first sentance is okay, though you DO pick up a little bit if you are paying attention to the 
 game you are playing. While the second sentance is technically true... they're screenshots... of 
 course they're potentially vague. I don't see you whining about the screenshots from COD4 elluding 
 that that game taking place in a region that 'may or may not be' the Middle East. The remainder 
 of the paragraph just continues the irreverent tone without being accurate enough. Again, if you 
 were paying attention to the game you were playing, you would have picked up more.
  
  To be accurate here, Quake Wars doesn't tell you enough about what is going on and that IS a negative 
 mark against the game. It just isn't the total failure that Jon Miller is making it out to be here.
 
  
  The next couple paragraphs are alright and not worth complaining about. Some of things Miller says 
 (or leaves out) combined with his previous claims that the game features no story elements (when, 
 in fact, it does have an admittedly scant offering) lead me to wondering just how much attention 
 he was paying while playing this game.
  
  I'm not that good at straightforward, go pick up weapons and kill people FPS play, so the role-oriented 
 nature of Quake Wars is very appealing and appreciated by me. Each role feels distinct in its impact 
 on play and there is something for everyone to do.
  The Soldier/Aggressor gets access to an array of guns to fit any occasion and will satisfy the 
 need to get stuck in with enemy. A standard assault rifle is bread and butter, a shotgun for that 
 added flavor, a machinegun for when you want to lay down some fire, and a rocket launcher for when 
 enemy armor looks your way. They are also responsible for planting explosives on objectives as 
 necessary. They hurt or break things, pure and simple.
  The Covert Ops/Infiltrator gives a nice range of options for us sneaky bastards to gather intel, 
 harass the enemy, assassinate them up close, or bring death from far away. They start with access 
 to the scoped assault rifle, which just gives a bit of ranged accuracy to the Soldier's primary 
 weapon, and can also select a formal sniper rifle if that is to taste. Their sidearm, whether it 
 is the initial pistol or later SMG upgrade, is silenced. Also, their grenades, rather than standard 
 frag, are EMP and temporarily disable vehicles or turrets they damage for a nice touch. For gear, 
 they can call in a radar unit that displays enemy positions on the minimap, deploy a remote camera/explosive 
 which is static for the GDF but flying for the Strogg, and either a deployable smoke cover for 
 the GDF or a teleport beacon for the Strogg. They handle all of the hacking objectives.
  The Engineer/Constructor is all about selecting the right turret for the right spot and denying 
 the enemy easy access to part of the battlefield. They begin with access to the assault rifle and 
 shotgun, later getting an auxilliary-mounted grenade launcher for the assault rifle that can come 
 in handy. For gear, they can place two general purpose mines at a time and any one turret from 
 a selection of anti-personnel, anti-vehicle, and either anti-air for the GDF or anti-artillery 
 for the Strogg. They are responsible for building or repairing objectives (as well as vehicles 
 or turrets) as well as disarming any explosives planted by the enemy.
  The Field Ops/Oppressor is very similar to the Engineer/Constructor but rather than being more 
 defense, their artillery options allow for impressive counter to the Engineer/Constructor's control. 
 They start with only the assault rifle but later open the scoped option. Gear is where it is at 
 for this role. They receive supportive ability to toss out ammo crates, a smoke grenade to call 
 in an impressive airstrike, and a target designator which can place strikes from one of three support 
 pieces that they can bring in. The artillery fires a salvo of indirect fire that isn't terribly 
 accurate but does create a swath of destruction while the rocket launcher locks-on to enemy vehicles 
 to ruin their day and the Hammer Missle/Dark Matter Cannon turns a very large radius of the map 
 into instant death for any and everything not on your side.
  The Medic/Technician is all about supporting the team, as should be expected. I have to admit to 
 not enjoying the Medic role so I didn't ever level one up to see what they get via upgrades. I 
 can tell you that they start with the assault rifle and shotgun. For gear, they get the prerequisite 
 medkits and can "rez" dead teammates as well as the GDF getting to call in supply crates that the 
 team can rearm from and the Strogg being able to place some spawning thingamajig on dead foes whose 
 purpose I never did figure out.
  
  For the most part, the GDF and Strogg are symmetrical with little difference between them. The 
 same kinds of weapons and effects, the same kinds of turrets and artillery, and the same general 
 abilities. The differences are few and, really, inconsequential. The biggest item of note is that 
 the Strogg enjoy one large ammunition pool for their weapons and do not need to reload but suffer 
 from overheating if they fire too much. Vehicles are little different. Everyone gets a tank, a 
 jeep, and a flying gunship with the GDF getting an ATV and another flying vehicle that I never 
 ran across while the Strogg get an interesting jump-pack and the heavily armed mech.
  
  Following that, the next two paragraphs of the GS review (five and six, if you're keeping track) , 
 surprisingly at this point, are spot on. The only problem I have is the end of the sixth...
  
  "You're better off playing on a PC with a USB controller."
  
  This echoes my first complaints, 
 that expecting improvements over the original from a later released port is entirely stupid. Furthermore, 
 I think the graphics looked fine on the X360 and I have no complaints. Of course things will look 
 different on the consoles, but so will two PCs running different hardware. It also falls into a 
 growing trend of saying that a game looks worse than it really does if every little visual bell 
 and whistle isn't present. It must have really stuck with Miller, though, because he basically 
 repeats this paragraph again just a moment later.
  
  "During each battle, you'll earn experience points from secondary objectives such as capturing 
 spawn points or blowing up enemy radar stations. When you accumulate enough XP, you'll unlock extra 
 weapons and proficiencies such as faster sprint and smaller weapon spread. Unlike in Call of Duty 
 4, these upgrades are not persistent and are reset after each campaign, which lasts for only three 
 maps. This is unfortunate because the two development teams missed an opportunity to add some kind 
 of character customization, a standard feature in any good FPS these days."
  
  Again, the complaint of these ports not being changed from the original. We get it, Jon, you expected 
 the consoles to get Quake Wars 2 and that didn't happen. To quote my favorite internet/MMO douches, 
 QQ.
  
  To say that persistant bonuses is a standard feature of "good" FPS games is ignorant. I, for one, 
 like the lack of persistency since it means that I will start a game on the same level as the people 
 who have far more time to play than I do rather than them getting an immediate advantage. Their 
 familiarity is already an advantage, they don't need to start with upgrades and better equipment, 
 as they will earn experience faster than I will anyway.
  
  The rest of the review is pointless to read, as Miller just repeats himself for two more paragraphs, 
 as I mentioned above.
  
  As bothersome as I find what the review says, what it doesn't say is just as bad. Aside from the 
 rather asinine judgements, very little is said about specifics of the game. I always prefer a review 
 to talk about what a game IS more than what it ISN'T. This one just doesn't do that.
  
  Some things that were left out or barely mentioned:
  While the objectives do keep the battle 
 lines moving, vehicle junkies will find their tanks and gunships only available away from the front 
 which helps to balance out the impact that such things can have on a fight and offer a choice as 
 to whether getting such a toy is worth the trip. On some maps, I would even say most, this dynamic 
 has the added feature of granting handicap to a side that is getting rolled over... as your bigger 
 vehicles are more readily available than those of your enemy, who has to travel over more of the 
 map to get to the fighting.
  
  Reinforcements (ie respawns) happen every 15 seconds and there is a readily visible timer to show 
 you when that will be. This is very handy when deciding if now is the right time to switch roles, 
 so as not to waste valuable seconds watching a timer tick away without you doing anything. This 
 ability to change roles as needed in the middle of a match is nice and it allows you to adapt to 
 a situation.
  
  While Miller claims that the single-player campaign lacks any function in training you how to play, 
 I disagree. The length of the campaign being three linked maps means that you will have longer 
 to earn experience in a given role and play with those upgrades. In a single maps are by no means 
 short affairs, it can still be difficult to see which weapons or pieces of equipment you like the 
 most or excel with and it can even be difficult to figure out just what activities for each role 
 net you the best experience to upgrade. The campaign helps.
  
  I've seen some complaining about how hard it is to find a match or how often people were kicked 
 from them. I can't say that I saw any of that. Everything worked acceptably for me.
  
  All-in-all, Miller touched upon the flaws... and then molested them. The problems are there and 
 they are obvious and they certainly hold Quake Wars back. But they aren't so bad as to ruin the 
 game. I had fun playing it and if I catch it in a bargain bin or find out a few of my friends are 
 playing regularly, I'll go buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: riastar15
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 18, 2008 7:57 am PT
Review:  not a bad game but wheres the BLOOD!!!!! i played the demo of this game and i thought it was OK 
 the load times are alright but can be a bit long about 1 min or 2. the gameplay is just plain fun 
 but can get a little bit boring at times but can get much better at other times. the multiplayer 
 is strange i can seem to find any players online.....??? but campaign and instant action is great 
 fun i would say that any one who likes Unreal Tournament should like this.
  well the best thing to do if u are looking to buy this game i would recommend u rent it first.
 
  
  ps. wheres the blood! i no all the quake game a kinda gory but in this there no blood WTF!!! well 
 next time quake makes a game like this they should but a lot more effort in making there next quake 
 wars
  
  pps. i hope they don't stuff DOOM4 up because that will be on of there best games (maybe) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: meconate
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 8, 2008 7:07 am PT
Review:  When Counter-Strike: Condition Zero was converted to the Xbox, everybody went up the wall, mostly 
 Counter-Strike fanboys who believe Counter-Strike belongs on the PC. Now ID bite thier tongues 
 and release their PC hit game Enemy Territory: Quake Wars for the next-gen consoles.
  
  The thing that annoys me is, when a port is made from the PC to the Console, people always compare 
 it to the original. Now, if like me, you never played the PC version, this game really has no problems. 
 In Quake Wars, you must choose either the Strogg or the Humans and complete the objectives given 
 to that team. With the Strogg you'll mostly be given the objectives to defend your base from the 
 Humans, and with the Humans, you'll be hacking computers, planting bombs, etc, etc. That's not 
 to say the Strogg have to miss out on the action, they have to defuse the bombs and reverse whatever 
 actions the Humans have done. Different maps have different objectives for you to do, and with 
 the maps being huge, it'll take some time to do some of them.
  Now if you're a fan of Battlefield 2, or if you've ever played it, you'll probably get the gist 
 of this game rather quick, there are classes to choose which all have unique gadgets and actions 
 that come useful for different objectives, engineers can fix vehicles but not heal people, whereas 
 medics can heal people but of course can not fix vehicles... it all works out. So really it's up 
 to you what you want to be and how you want to go about your missions.
  
  Right, iD have always been big BOT fans, since games like Quake III Arena, they've always enjoyed 
 adding their bots into games for those without Online to still experience the intense multiplayer, 
 and here in Quake Wars they do the same, they put their new improved bots in here which are suprisingly 
 intelligent and will put up quite a fight to make sure they win the match. This is really useful 
 in the Campaign mode, because you're going to want to win, but want a challenge too, right? So 
 Quake Wars does this and does a good job, almost feels online-like.
  
  The problems with Quake Wars are nothing to be so angry about like Gamespot seem to be, the only 
 problems i found with this game is the loading is a tiny bit longer than what you'd expect from 
 the 360... Nothing to cry about though.
  
  To be honest, Quake Wars is a really fun game and i enjoyed it without comparing it to every game 
 on the market. Worth buying if you're looking for some good fun :) .
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Adams134g
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 4, 2008 3:26 pm PT
Review:  Nothing has really changed from the PC version, except for the release date. It has a good framerate, 
 the bots are actually intelligent and it has a good multiplayer experience. It's really just another 
 Quake game except for the fact it's designed for multiplayer. There's not much of a story. The 
 classes are fun. Due to the bots having brains, people with out Live can still enjoy this game. 
 The maps are large and the objectives are fun. Accomplishing these objectives can be very exciting. 
 It's all around fun. I am completely happy with the smart AI, who will do things that people on 
 Live will actually do. Somethings remain the same though, such as running incredibly fast. The 
 vehicles are sometimes confusing to control. The graphics arn't anything to get excited about. 
 There's not much color either. There's not many Battlefieldish game on the 360 so this one is highly 
 reccomended. If you're not a Quake fan you should still rent this game. If you are a Quake fan 
 then you should definetly buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Heaven154
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jun 25, 2008 6:22 pm PT
Review:  Quake is one of those games that spends the several months before its release telling you and showing 
 you things that look amazing. I more or less pick this game up because i was looking for a battlefield 
 type game and remember seeing the PC version of Quake Wars was pretty solid. I sadly was disappointed 
 to find that the game was terribly hard to navigate and understand the menus and what you were 
 suppose to do. Gameplay suffers greatly cause you spend more time trying to understand what you 
 are suppose to do and how to do it then really just enjoying yourself. 
  
  In the end of it all the major problem with this game is the price. For what you pay for you are 
 not really given that much. Just an online mode that is boring and difficult to get to work and 
 a poor example of a single player expierence. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: connor52
Rating: 6
Date: Jun 25, 2008 5:57 pm PT
Review:  this game is pretty bad there is no single player xbox live sucks so dose instant action the graphics 
 are kinda good but nothing special the guns suck and dont do much damage and every time you get 
 in a vehical a missile is always on lock its pathetic!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! the only thing i liked 
 were the fact that you can use classes to do different stuff and the look of the soldiers is really 
 nice gameplay is just shoot run shoot run but this game dose have its moements........... somtimes 
 but barely this game i recomend you just rent it its not worth a buy trust me dont say oh connor52 
 is just lying well im not just rent  and just to think that this 
 game is 60 dollars to buy and i know that some poor sap actually bought this for that much and 
 you can rent it at movie gallery for only 7 dollars soooooo just rent it its not worth it i rented 
 it and i thought it was crap and i bet you will to!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
  
  
  
  
  also its to easy 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NosajWorld
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jun 23, 2008 9:18 am PT
Review:  The demo of Enemy Territory: Quake Wars, was really cool. Besides the fact that you could only 
 play on one map, it was a really new experience. I liked how when you respawn, you come down in 
 a parachute lolz (creative) . There were also alot of other little things that were really sweet 
 (Cyclops, Jetpack) , but once I rented the real game... eh. The story was kind of crappy, didn't 
 really pull me in at all, gameplay was great, but it really just didn't keep me into it. I wasn't 
 able to try the multiplayer, as I didn't rent it for very long, but if you wanna try it, have fun... 
 you'll need it. Remember, I rented this game, didn't buy it, so I don't know everything about it, 
 but enough to write a review. So as you can see from my short crappy review... rent it first, or 
 just play the demo. This game is definitely not a buy. Btw: I wrote this review just for points, 
 lolz, im a cheap bastard :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aBathingApe_
Rating: 4
Date: Jun 22, 2008 7:36 pm PT
Review:  Enemy Territory: Quake Wars is quite the disappointment considering you're expecting a Battlefield 
 sort of game with Sci-Fi and alien lifeforms mixed into it all, however, what you receive is an 
 experience leaving you scratching your head and wondering how you got conned into spending money 
 on such a piece of garbage.
  
  I didn't even purchase the game, I used a free rental at Blockbuster to try it out, and still I 
 felt as though a piece of myself was stolen away from me. Getting into Quake Wars is quite frustrating 
 and a difficult task in itself; after you finally get into the game the games controls are worthless 
 in comparison to much else on the market at the moment, the graphics are decent, but what you've 
 probably come to expect from your Xbox 360, and the gameplay is lacking at best.
  
  Quake Wars is better off using as a frisbee or a coaster than a video game, just be careful, throwing 
 compact discs around can be dangerous. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pitchblack125
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 22, 2008 11:20 am PT
Review:  Oh Quake Wars, do you really want to be a battlefield game? Well this game trys and in my opinion 
 its effort is not bad. This game is the first i have played in the Quake series so i first played 
 it and i was lost. First i shall state the bad. The campaign is a joke, its multiplayer for 1 person. 
 The graphics are pretty dated and the textures are not all that good. The missions are not balanced. 
 The 2 classes medic, and field ops don't have objectives in any of the maps and therefore are hard 
 to level up in. Most of the maps when attacking is destroy something, build something, and hack 
 something, not very diverse. All 3 of the modes are the same and don't do much to feed my hunger 
 for good gameplay, this game isn't worth the 60 dollar price tag. Now that i have cleared the bad, 
 lets talk about the good. The multiplayer is FUN! Yes the boring singleplayer is enhanced when 
 you play with real people! The classes are all balanced and no one is bad. The maps are all done 
 well and look great, the matches take a long time, and battles are intense. The bottom line for 
 Quake Wars is buy it! but not now. Wait for it to be cheaper. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hatefish2
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 19, 2008 1:41 pm PT
Review:  If you've enjoyed larger scaled war games in the past then a game like Quake Wars should feel no 
 different than other games in the genre. It still has it's vehicles, explosions, air combat, lots 
 of players running around and plenty of action.. but what it does differently is that it plays 
 in a sort of "attack and defend" style gameplay. One team will always be on a defensive side (Usually 
 strogg) and the other will have a series of objectives to complete in a linear fashion in order 
 to achieve victory. 
  
  The best thing about this game type is that it creates lots of choke-points and concentrated battles 
 centered around the task at hand. The maps are also designed so you will have several ways to attack 
 and multiple paths to take while conquering most objectives, but some are straight forward. 
  
  The maps can go from escorting a large MCP to a location, then by the end of it you're playing 
 Search and Destroy planting bombs, single flag CTF, and many different gametypes all fused into 
 one single map. It all feels pretty good but can get a little tiresome after you've played the 
 same map several times.
  
  The game's offline is a series of bot matches that follow a progression of maps in a "campaign". 
 If you enjoy sandbox type games where you can do whatever you'd like against the bots than this 
 is very enjoyable, those looking for a story will be disappointed though as this game is mostly 
 multiplayer focused. You can however host a private match with just you and a friend against an 
 army of bots, and bots can fill in empty player slots online in case someone drops out. 
  
  The graphics are pretty standard of most large-scale war games. The environments are very unique 
 and detailed and although they present A LOT of brown and grey they never show the same texture 
 or object twice. So there's tons to look at, it also has nice water effects and fairly good lighting 
 and will only suffer from framerate drops if the host has a poor connection. This game is very 
 dependent on how good the host is, if he has a bad connection or is downloading something on his 
 computer.. you'll most likely feel it and it can get annoying. Hopefully a patch can do something 
 such as choose the best host before a game instead of random, or just improve netcode.
  
  Overall the game is pretty good. Sound is alright, graphics are standard but not as horrible as 
 many trolls are stating. Game play is downright awesome and the unique classes (Which I haven't 
 gotten into) are all fun and you'll have trouble deciding what to play as. 
  
  If you want a good vehicle/infantry based war-game, especially in the Quake series, then Enemy 
 Territory: Quake Wars will impress you and you'll like it.. however if you are a fan of unimpressive 
 and tiresome gimmicks, or gameplay that gives you instant gratification then stay away. You will 
 not enjoy the learning curve. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Steven_Beynon
Rating: 5
Date: Jun 18, 2008 12:33 pm PT
Review:  Score: 2/5
  
  Pros
  
  -A fantastic mutliplayer experience, if you got the team to play it with
  -Bots are brutal
 
  -Maps are well designed in multiplayer sense
  
  Cons
  
  -Outdated graphics
  -Bring
  -The speed of the game feels awkward
  -Poor looking animations
  -Low quality sound 
 effects
  
  Quake Wars finally makes its way to consoles with a competent port. Though the conversion from 
 PC to console certainly has its faults-such as slow reloading, lack of a grenade button, and abysmal 
 weapon switching mechanics. This combined with a weak single player will turn off most console 
 players. The singleplayer is basically a series of bot matches on each of the games twelve maps, 
 although the bots are surprisingly intelligent. With a good team of people online the core game 
 shines, but its a longshot that a community will be backing up this port, unlike it does with the 
 PC iteration. Quake Wars is a heavy on team focused objectives, and unless you can gather up friends 
 to play this your experience may not be so rewarding by playing with strangers who will most likely 
 lack communication. 
  
  Overall Quake Wars is a great game, but its a great game on the PC, a $60.00 price tag, and outdated 
 visuals will more than likely force this game into the bargain bin. It's a shame the game didn't 
 turn out like many people wanted it to, but if the large scale multiplayer is the itch that needs 
 to be scratched, it seems like Battlefield is your only option. 
  
  Steven_Beynon
  Gamertag: Epicbomb 
::::::

::::::
UserName: buttonmasher99
Rating: 4
Date: Jun 10, 2008 10:38 am PT
Review:  I was really looking forward to playing this game. I rented it to make sure I would want to buy 
 it. I played my first round, and things went well. I found the match quickly, the connection was 
 great, whatever. I went in to eat lunch. I came back, and it was totally different. It took about 
 10 minutes just to find my next match (with all criteria set to 'any') and when we started, everybody 
 was lagging all over the place. When people were standing on hills, the would fall through them. 
 They could walk through walls, and their feet didn't even move. These things stayed persistent 
 throughout the afternoon. It almost seems like nobody even bothered to test them. Also, keep in 
 mind that I have a pretty decent internet connection. I've been told to play single-player if the 
 multiplayer doesn't work, but the bots are incredibly dim. I never care about visuals or loading 
 time, so these really didn't effect me at all. My final word is pretty much the same as gamespot: 
 get this game for the PC, otherwise, go ahead and rent it if you want, just be sure to use a coupon. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: caboose84
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 9, 2008 5:10 pm PT
Review:  Enemy Territory Quake Wars is fun, it has a decent campaign and is fairly easy to just pick up and 
 play.
  ETQW gets a little repetitive with the same objectives over and over again and has no upgrades 
 wich is dissapointing so ETQW is bassicaly Battlefield on the 360.
  I find It can be a little annoying you have to complete every objective with the same class in 
 the same way every time and there isnt much difference in classes besides there abilities.
  As far as weapons go its just a slow firing machine gun, an extremely slow reloading rocketlauncher, a 
 very inacurate underpowered shotgun, and a LMG that has a slightly faster rate of fire but inevitably 
 the same.
  
  The graphics are outdated and low in texture so if thats a major concern for you you wont like 
 this.
  
  
  So not much veriety if you enjoy Battlefield or Star Wars Battlfront you will enjoy this title. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jackc2k8
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 9, 2008 9:56 am PT
Review:  Enemy territory quake wars, is a much underated game. The single player for me is great, which 
 consists of objective based team death maches, and a new mode called stopwatch, where each team 
 has a turn of attacking and defending.
  The graphiques on the game are good for most of the maps, lush, colouful, and with plenty of detail. 
 But a few of the maps, including area 22, and canyon, just look awful. Infact I bet a toddler could 
 have done a better job on creating canyon.....
  Quake wars gameplay is good, verry good infact. You have over 5 classes to choose to play as, including 
 medics, infiltrators, and soldiers. In game diffculty is fairly easy, even on hard mode, and it 
 just gives you a good feeling inside to nail a strogg right in forehead.
  Although, the multiplayer is the games downfall, as their is verry few modes to choose from. As 
 it gets extremely boring just playing objective over, and over, and over again. The amount of people 
 online is also quite bad. You would think hardly anyone bought the game....... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Madcows
Rating: 3
Date: Jun 4, 2008 3:50 pm PT
Review:  The game itself is a new take one first person shooters by that I mean giving the players objectives 
 to accomplish. There are several classes to each team and every class has a purpose and has different 
 abilities. Which is kind of a good change? There are several vehicles on each side and they also 
 serve there purpose and will help in the defense or offence of your team. Exepct for things that 
 fly I've seen nats that had more staying power after they got hit. The graphics are good and the 
 sound is also good. Now on to game play, it's a shooter and that's about it if you want tactics 
 forget about it. It is your basic spray and pray. And if you like to bunny hop instead of aiming 
 then this is the game for you. If bunny hopping serves no other purpose other then PISSING YOU 
 OFF!! (Like it does for me) Then this game will drive you crazy. So in short, bunny hopping yeah 
 buy it. Bunny hopping makes you want to reach through the screen and smack that ungrateful little 
 yuppie larva on the other side of the screen. Then I would suggest not to even try to play this 
 game. Because it will make you go postal. Some maps are just a bunch of people flooding in to a 
 room and shooting at everything that moves. What the hell is this, I've seem monkey sh_ _ fights 
 at the zoo that had more of a point then this! I thought we were past the first person shooter 
 bunny hopping crap by now. But I guess I was wrong. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Raikoh_
Rating: 6
Date: Jun 3, 2008 11:32 pm PT
Review:  Enemy Territories: Quake Wars, is a new game based in the Quake universe developed by Splash Damage. 
 The Strogg have invaded Earth and it is up to the Global Defense Force to save humanity.
  
  Graphically there isn't much to say. Last gen consoles could run the game with minimal effort.
 
  
  The game play is smoothed out and the control scheme is simple. There are five classes in the game 
 and there are perks for both sides that really seperate them from each other. The GDF get more 
 conventional weaponry and gadgets like smoke grenades, missles, supply crates and ammo packs. Where 
 as the Strogg have the more futuristic arsenal, like a dark matter cannon, teleportation devices, 
 repair drones, and a stroyent tool that turns enemy corpses into spawn hosts. The 360 version unfortunately, 
 lacks a prone stance where as, the ps3 and pc versions don't. There is not much difference between 
 the guns, but the game makes up for that by giving the player upgrades as he or she progresses 
 and levels up through a match. The game offers a lot of vehicles to the players' disposal which 
 adds more variety to online matches. Some issues with the game is that it's seems a little one 
 sided. Attackers spawn quickly and close to their objectives, so it's just a constant rush of people. 
 Everyone runs way too fast and makes sniping almost useless.
  
  The console versions of the game also lack a story. The single player is just a series of bot matches 
 set in the 12 maps the game offers. The bot A. I. isn't great, but they do try to help you and get 
 objectives done. Harder difficulties just increase the amount of damage and bots on the opposite 
 team. The multi player is ok. A lot of the games are laggy and it's usually the attacking side 
 that wins, due to the fact that they're constantly rushing their objectives.
  
  In conclusion, if you're one of the most hard core gamers out there, rent it or buy the PC version. 
 If not, pass this game up and save your money for something better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: enigma83
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 3, 2008 10:11 pm PT
Review:  .... ly. The rating this game got and for the only reason for its lack of hight, is because ETQW 
 does not have a more indepth campaign. But what you need to look at is what the game actually gives. 
 The game play remindeds me of what if seen from Call of Duty4. But that game was an instant 10 
 because of its unique multy-player and great campain. Yeah it sucks to pay full price for half 
 a game. But, what can you do. A game like Shadow Run, which was a great origional idea of magic 
 and technoloy from an RPG was intregrated into a FPS. But that game also fell short of obtaining 
 a higher rate score. The different abilities you get from each class is a great way to increase 
 players interactions with each other, to complete the desired objectives. And, the game its self 
 holds hours of game play with its, uniqu campaign idea, bot generated quick action, and xbox live 
 matches. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dognutz101
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 3, 2008 3:13 am PT
Review:  Gamespot missed this one. Granted it would be nice to know the background of quake but it is not 
 necessary. This game is pretty straight forward, get this done or die trying. It is battlefield 
 2 on steroids. Very enjoyable online. Granted, it takes a few to get used to but once that occurs, 
 its game on. If you are having a hard time figuring it out, read the strategy guide that posted 
 with the PC version of the game. I don't understand how the PC version gets a better review when 
 its the same game. Other than that it is a very good game, very challenging and sometimes a little 
 overpowering, like the enemy lol. And there is a campaign, and its cool to try both sides and see 
 how things develop. Once more, I think Gamespots review is for people who know nothing about gaming. 
 If this si the first game your going to buy, then maybe. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Merciless911
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 2, 2008 7:29 pm PT
Review:  So I admit this game should probably be a little bit cheaper but thats no reason to give it a 6.5! 
 The graphics are pretty good not great but good enough. 
  
  And come on guys if you think about it a lot of games like this (except GTA4) have a very short 
 campaign mabye 10 hours or less and then what do you do... play multiplayer right. Well this game 
 might be missing the campaign but as long as you have online, or even offline is fine you can still 
 get your moneys worth from playing it and still have a pretty good time. (Ex: Cod4, Gears of War... etc.) 
 These games might have all had good-great campaigns but lets face it most of your fun times and 
 memories are from the multiplayer and not the campaign so give this game a chance will ya
  
  (star wars battlefront is just like this game... it did have a campaign but it sucks really 
 bad and it got a decent review) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: candland
Rating: 6
Date: Jun 2, 2008 5:08 pm PT
Review:  Not as good as Frontlines, and far less polished. Overpriced for multiplayer only. Horrible UI 
 and long loading times. I am only playing it so I don't feel like I just wasted $60. Tutorial is 
 fairly useless, it doesn't teach you anything beyond the very basics. Textures are very brown and 
 low-res. No split-screen. With textues that low and LOD pop-ins so distinct, you'd think there 
 was no technical reason why they couldn't render at least 2 player split-screen. The port feels 
 like they went to the lowest bidder or someone who has never authored anything onthe Xbox before. 
 I believe there is an unwritten law that if you are doing a battlefield-type MP game, you are requred 
 to make the flying vehicles impossible to control. Quake Wars is no exception, in fact, it excells 
 at this.
  That said, there is enough redeeming features that gameplay is adequate and the achievements are 
 enough to keep me going for another session or so. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BaconB1ts123
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 2, 2008 11:28 am PT
Review:  I took the risk of buying this game with only a little research and so far I am pretty happy. I 
 don't have / spend a lot of time on game campaigns so I appreciate a game I can pick up and play 
 for an hour or two. I really like the big sand box formulas of this type of game because I am neither 
 a hard core gamer or a elite so I feel I can contribute something to the fight. I think this will 
 hold me over until BF Bad Company comes out which looks good too. My only real complaints are that 
 it should have been at least $10 cheaper since there is no single player, and I have had times 
 where it locks up on the load screen which makes me have to get my but up and reset the whole system. 
 The last I am sure will be fixed with an update the first is a matter of time :) I really don't 
 see why GS said the graphic are no good. I thought it looked great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: imafnpro
Rating: 5
Date: Jun 2, 2008 10:55 am PT
Review:  The only thing different between Quake Wars, Enemy Territory and those shooters of the late 90's 
 is perhaps the graphics are a generation or two (more on this later) more evolved. Otherwise, everything 
 else is much the same.
  
  I should point out, that if you like unrealistic controls and hair-raising fast paced action then 
 this game is for you.
  
  Perhaps I should provide a basis for my comparison? In terms of games which nail the translation 
 between a persons hands, the controllers and what occurs on screen, Halo 3 nails it and COD 4 comes 
 pretty dang close. Beyond those two, I can think of no other games which, to date, have come close 
 to mastering such. QWET, in this regard, reminds me of the early FPS days playing round after round 
 of Unreal Tournament.
  
  The distance between two objects means little or nothing. Vehicles are difficult to control and 
 often do not move at the speed you would expect. And humans, on foot, move too quickly. It feels 
 as if you are controlling a juiced-up mouse who bounces, haphazardly across a map filled with unnecessary 
 geometry.
  
  Uh, and about those graphics... These aren't the graphics of a next, current or even previous gen 
 game. Had the game been released around 2003/2004, the game's graphics might have impressed a few 
 folks.
  
  In terms of how the multi-player gameplay fairs, I am unable to report on such since I was unable 
 to find a game. That's right. When I logged in and attempted to find a game none were to be found. 
 I ended up starting a few servers in hopes others would land on my machine and a game would form. 
 I ended up giving up this effort after repeatedly starting server after server, over the course 
 of a couple hours, filled with nothing but bouncing bots.
  
  The graphics are tired and old. The controls are either too loose or too tight. The game play is 
 uninspired. The only thing going for this game, as far as I was concerned, was the games AI. The 
 bots seem to know what they were doing. They were always helpful. Always on task. Never did I feel 
 as if I wasn't on a team. If only I cared about playing with bots. If only such a lonely existence 
 appealed to me. Then perhaps I would accept the mediocrity of Quake Wars, Enemy Territory. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarksjeiK
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jun 2, 2008 9:57 am PT
Review:  You know sometimes you just wont stand for failure. You look at a game in previews and you want 
 that game to be great. ET: Quake Wars is one of those games.
  
  Having played Wolfenstein to death on the original xbox and having had a great time with Battlefield 
 MC on 360 this was going to be that game that was going to bring back those good times.
  
  Don't get me wrong. Call of Duty games and Halos are marvelous games that well deserve their top 
 spot in rankings but there's something about class-based objective multiplayer games that sets 
 them apart from anything else.
  
  When the game was given the 6ish treatment by both IGN and Gamespot I was more than dissappointed. 
 I had had such high hopes for this game that I decided to get the game regardless.
  
  After finishing the campain (bot-multiplayer) and several hours online it is with pain in my heart 
 that I must anounce the game indeed deserves the scores it got.
  
  I'm not going to nag about mediocre graphics because it's gameplay first and graphics second in 
 my book.
  
  It's also not that the game is truly horrible in any way, in fact it has some incredible features.
 
  The weaponry is fantastically diverse and the audio in the game is top notch. The scud like missile 
 attack "The Hammer" really is a treat for the ears. The ambient war sounds in the background when 
 travelling across the map is also great
  
  The game does many things well but the "feel" is just not there..
  
  The shooting itself for 
 instance lacks the smoothness and accuracy that other shooters deliver. A very forgiving autoaim 
 has to correct that but it's not fooling anyone. 
  Turning it off just reveals the horrid Mouse and Keyboard to controller translation it got. As 
 a result the shooting is very underwhelming and not thrilling at all..
  
  Another seemingly small thing is the camera, it's "stuck" on your weapon. Notice when you play 
 CoD or Halo when you move the right thumbstick, the camera moves slightly before your weapon follows. 
 This adds a sense of "weight" to your weapon and it adds a certain feel.
  
  In ET QW that is not there and for some reason it makes the game feel very dated. It might not 
 make sense now but you'll get it when you try it for yourself.
  
  To make a long story short I tried to look past all it's shortcomings and just play the game hoping 
 it would grow on me. 
  
  But after several days of play I can no longer fool myself. Especially after popping the much smoother 
 and refined Battlefield MC back in for comparison.
  
  ET Quake Wars is a fantastic well balanced game on paper. However poor execution keeps it from 
 being as great as you'd like it to be...
  
  Please rent before you buy...
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: GrIMm23
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 1, 2008 5:25 pm PT
Review:  The game isn't bad, but like what Gamespot saidIts overpriced." and there right it should be 
 around 40-45$. There may not be a story line to it (its kinda like Shadowrun) , but it has a power 
 to suck you right in and all you want to do is play it non-stop! THe online is flawless and the 
 AI is perfect for people who cant go online! There's a wide variety of vehicles for both teams 
 each with its own special function making the teams completely different ( that includes guns, 
 objectives, and melee weapons) . Theres different classes kinda like Team Fortress like a medic 
 and an engineer which both have the same functions ( except the medic in this game can heal your 
 dead body before you respawn. Graphics could of been better but that doesnt stop it from being 
 a great game. The last thing a wanna say is that if you have 60$ and you really want to spend it 
 on a "worth it" game dont stick with this game, just get it when it atleast drops to 40$. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xvvictimvx
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 1, 2008 3:15 pm PT
Review:  b4 i rented this game i read all the fourms here on gamespot and have seen all the reviews, what 
 i am saying is that i no the ins and outs of what people like and are looking for here but one 
 problem i see is that they are comparing it to the PC version. Enemy Terrirtory: Quake Wars on 
 the 360 is just a bunch of hardcore fun to keep it plain and simple. I will break down the game 
 accordingly....
  
  Graphics: 8/10
  
  Tthe MEGATEXTURES in this game are just remarkable but may the maps look beautiful, some of the 
 
  "other" textures suffer. For example the guns look next-gen but look very plain and blurry. Also 
 the AI
  character models look better then average but are still faulty. The vechicals look fantastic with 
 alot of
  detail and shading. Over these fourms you read that the graphics are terrible, but that is not 
 true, they
  may not look like GEARS OF WAR or anything like that, but GEARS OF WAR did not have huge maps 
 
  the completely unique MEGATEXTURE system. Trust me the graphics are not terrible, the graphics 
 are 
  not amazing they are normal 360 graphics. Oh and by the way, i do not have a HDTV and they still
 
  look great. 
  
  
  Gameplay: 9.5/10
  
  ET: QW must have one of the best multiplayer online i have ever seen in a video game. If there is
 
  something that you always wanted to do in a multiplayer FPS, in Quake Wars i bet you can find 
 a
  way to do it. You can do anything from call airstrikes to operate vechicals to choosing a C L A 
 S S to 
  match your playing S T Y L E to just annihilating your enemy in any way you want. Personaly i like 
 to use the
  COVERT OPS which is a sniper and identity theft because i love to shoot at my enemies like they
 
  are little bugs, and it is always fun to turn into your enemy then kill them from behind like 
 a little B****
  Overall the gameplay is mint and is hard to beat.
  
  
  Sound: 7/10 
  
  Yes most of the reviews for the sound are correct. I have a 5.1 surround sound DBFS theater 
 with 8 
  speakers hooked up with my 360 and this game still does not sound all to great, good, but not great. 
 
  Basically i am going to tell you what the reviews all around say, the guns feel weak (excpet the 
 sniper 
  rifle, it sounds awsome) and the explosions pack a punch but not a punch to suit a 10 ton Hammer 
 
  Missle if you catch my drift. Most of the sounds are repeated over and over again and can get quite
 
  annoying, but this factor barely effects the game at all.
  
  
  Quality: 8/10 
  
  Quake Wars does not bring anything incrediably new to the table. It basically mimics Battlefeild 
 and 
  Turok or Counterstrike. This should not repent you from playing the game though, ET: QW is still 
 an
  amazing action packed game. More effort could have went into the development of the 360 version 
 
  and could have fixed noticable flaws. Still a A+ game none the less.
  
  
  Colour: 8/10 
  
  This title uses a lighter more partically type colour/shading/lighting. It 
 suits the game but looks rather
  dull and boring. But some areas like the explosions and water and overall maps look a-F****-mazing.
 
  
  
  Overall: 8.5/10
  
  Enemy Territory: Quake Wars is a worthy title to pick up for your Xbox 360 or ps3 blah blah blah. 
 It has
  remarkable gameplay and online support + not to many 9 yearolds which is always a givin bonus. 
 Do 
  not things like only 16 player online support or no UNREAL engine bother you because it lays out 
 so 
  smoothly and plays super well. I would consider at least renting this game if this review was not 
 
  convining enough. Quake Wars is alot of fun and has a great community, join in and eat the humans. 
 
  
  PS: Gamespots review and IGN's are complete BS. They are rating the game badly because they are 
 not 
  like the PC version or an "upgraded" version. They did not review this game based on what it actually
 
  is, a great online FPS shooter. If you read the Gamespot review it clearly says that it is about 
 the same 
  as the PC and nothing new or different, but they gave it a 6.5 anyways because there expectations
 
  were not met. If it was like the PC version, it should have got a solid 8.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crazyleftykid
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 1, 2008 12:39 pm PT
Review:  i do agree with gamespot that this game lacks a story briefing and a single player campaign, but 
 they are missing the point. I feel as if this game was made to be a mulitplayer game. Its a lot 
 like Halo 2. Awful single player, but thousands of people loved the mulitplayer. Quake Wars is 
 similar to Halo 2. It lacks a single player campaign but the Multiplayer is amazing. Gamespot agreed 
 with that and should give Quake Wars more credit than a 6.5.
  
  And gamespot is sadly misstaken about the upgrades. There shouldnt be frequent upgrades. The upgrades 
 should be spaced out and take longer to get as you progress, which is whay Quake Wars has definetly 
 done well. I would not say that this is a Halo 3, COD4 or a GTA 4, but it definetly deserves a 
 little better than a 6.5.
  
  Gamespot has been wrong before like with Army of 2, that also recieved a 6.5. I think this game 
 deserves something a lot better than what Gamespot has given it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ANeverEndingWar
Rating: 6
Date: Jun 1, 2008 11:41 am PT
Review:  When a game carrying the Quake name comes out, one can expect certain things, there will be blood, 
 big guns, and aliens. This game delivers all three in bucketfuls. What it doesnt deliver is solid 
 gameplay that can compete with other first-person shooter titles out there. This isnt to say it 
 doesnt have redeeming qualities. Owners of the 360 version that dont have access to xbox live can 
 still get a multiplayer experience out of the campaign and instant action modes. These provide 
 matches with "bots" that play just like their online counterparts in attack and defend style. Those 
 looking to rake in achievements can do so on both play modes. While playing a match, the ability 
 to change your class, weapon of choice, and spawn point on-the-fly is a great feature to have when 
 you need to capture objectives. The game does a great job with ensuring each class has a purpose 
 in every match. The reason this game isnt worth a purchase, and just a rent or a borrow, is that 
 it doesnt offer long term playability. Once you go through the campaign and instant action modes, 
 you've already seen all the maps and play styles the game has to offer. Plus, lets be honest, this 
 game could use a bit of tweaking in the graphical area, as it looks slightly too last-gen for a 
 brand new game. Looking for a long lasting multiplayer experience? Look elsewhere. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ronbrett
Rating: 2
Date: Jun 1, 2008 10:56 am PT
Review:  I got this on the 360 as opposed to the PS3 and wish I'd stuck with the PS3 now. I cannot play 
 any more than a couple of multiplayer games without the game locking up on the loading screen. 
 At that point I need to RESTART my console. Not really acceptable and I cannot believe they didn't 
 catch this in pre release testing. I am not the only person with this problem. Check the official 
 forums. Also, they have stripped away the first person view from vehicles in the 360 release, even 
 though it is still in the PS3 version (although that is only from the forums as I was stupid enough 
 to buy the 360 version.) I bought the 360 version as I thought that XBOX live, being a more 'mature' 
 service than PSN would provide better multiplayer support. NOT TRUE. The matchmaking on XBL is 
 poor to say the least and as most people are having the same lock up problems, when you actually 
 get into a game you often find half of the people in your game have been replaced by bots (presumably 
 as they are now havin to also restart their consoles!) The gameplay (when you can get a game started 
 that is) has the potential to be good but there are no upgrades (at least not that I could see.) 
 Spend your hard earned money on something else and avoid this lemon! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dr__hannibal_
Rating: 7
Date: May 31, 2008 8:12 am PT
Review:  This game looked good in the previews and I got excited enough to go buy it on release day. I had 
 also played Wolfenstein ET on the Mac and found it to be a brilliant game. Got it home with Quake 
 Wars and within twenty minutes I felt distinctily underwhelmed. The concept had so much potential 
 and if implemented well could've given the other FPS a run for their money but it fails on a number 
 of levels. 
  1) It looks bad. Nowhere near what you'd expect of from next gen' consoles.
  2) There's no background, story, etc. leaving you feeling like you've walked in to a bad movie 
 half-way through.
  3) The weapons dont 'feel' very good. (I know this might seem like a weird thing to say but COD 
 4 and Halo weapons are much more satisfying to fire)
  4) Heavy weapons and vehicles would have been so much better if you could actually destroy walls 
 and structures. 
  5) You can't choose your own upgrades and you barely notice the ones bestowed upon you. 
  6) 
 Online so far has been super-laggy for me (might not be a concern for everyone but I generally 
 don't get too much lag on FPS games)
  Here's hoping for the first update where they add a few more tutorials and allow persistant character 
 upgrades. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: optimal
Rating: 6
Date: May 31, 2008 1:32 am PT
Review:  Pros ------------------------------------------------
  
  It looks decent. It's not the sharpest looking game on the block. But it is still good.
  
  
 Speed is just right, it's a nice change of pace coming from Battlefield. 
  
  Auto aim isn't overpowering, and was definitely a good idea to put in there. Quake with a game 
 pad just seems foolish. But with this function you sometimes get the feel of what a mouse would 
 give you. Which is the ability to keep your cross hair on your target.
  
  The majority of ground vehicles are a lot of fun. Siege mode on strogg vehicles is a beautiful 
 thing
  
  Maps are large, and are well designed. It's nice to have fighting outside in the environment, then 
 to have to go inside facilities all in one match. It opens up all kind of situations and choke 
 points. 
  
  Plenty of gadgets to have fun with. The flying drone from the strogg infiltrator load out is especially 
 fun.
  
  
  
  
  Some vehicles sound awful.
  
  Vehicle control is poor. One stick does all. Very annoying. Also 
 there is no free look while you're in a vehicle. You see the way you are facing.
  
  Air vehicles.. forget about it. Just ignore them and make yourself useful to your team on foot. 
 I'd hope for an xbox live fix on these asap.
  
  Not enough maps. (a xbox live download would be hot, I'd hope we can expect one in the coming months)
 
  
  No lasting reward system = little reason to grind out boring pubs.
  
  Defense seems terribly easy. It takes a long time to hack, build, or wait for your planted bomb 
 to go off on the objective. If you die during a hack or build, it goes back to 0%. This can be 
 very annoying verses a competent defense.
  
  You never seem to run out of mines, which is overpowered and takes away from the purpose of ammo 
 packs.
  
  Icarus is an awesome vehicle, too bad the weapon on it is useless. 
  
  
  
  I enjoy this game. It will hold me over in the fps department until ut3 hits the xbox 360. 
 Despite the cons, I'd still recommend you try it. DO NOT BUY this for a single player experience. 
 This is intended for multiplay. 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: wogglies5
Rating: 7
Date: May 30, 2008 10:48 pm PT
Review:  I just got myne in the afternoon. After what I seen in OXM magazine it looked pretty good! Like 
 Star Wars Battlefront or something. Even though there is virtually no plot, I didin't mind. Training 
 got the basics, sort-of, and his lips didn't move. Even though it seemed alright I also noticed 
 fast they moved. I know they might be super soldiers like Chief in Halo, but even he didn't move 
 that fast. There is lots of vehicles to drive and fly but the troops are mirrored. The soldier 
 in the GDF and the agressor in the Stroggs are almost alike, just one has a differnt type of weapon 
 style and is uglier. The enviroment is huge and fun to blow stuff up in, but is somewhat bland. 
 Trying to get all those bad things really knock a good game down. Its also prety expensive for 
 doing the same thing over and over again. Unless (mayby) when online with your buds. I could have 
 made lunch by the time the loading screen was done, even then it took like 20 seconds to start 
 while it counts down for some reason. I think they could have spent moretime on this game to polish 
 it up and make it into a 9/10 rating. It could have been possible because it had everything there, 
 the tools to make a great game. With bad things aside, you'll love the big envirments like I did 
 blowing up things with artillery and commanding stuff makes you feel like a field general! Although 
 if you want something like that, try EndWar when it comes out. Still, if they make a Enemy Territory 
 2, they should put a little more effort into it! It's always fun to set up ambushes and flanks 
 and kill the Stroggs/GDF in the big levels they have.
  
  It would have been better with a little more time. But I don't think you should get it and lose 
 money like I did, but if you can look past the cons, youll enjoy it and love blowing stuff up! 
 Although it will take you a long time to learn anything because it actually preeeety hard to use 
 Dark Matter Cannons etc. etc. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sonofares
Rating: 9
Date: May 29, 2008 1:49 pm PT
Review:  I can't believe the lack of attention being given to Enermy Territory: Quake Wars. And I really 
 can't figure it out. As far as I can tell there has been no marketing campaign for the game and 
 that's very surprising considering the following that Quake games have amassed over the years. 
 I didn't even know it was coming out this week and had actually forgot it was even in production. 
 My local Gamestop only received TWO copies for sale. 
  
  It's a team-based shooter. You along with your squad must complete objectives to accomplish the 
 missions. The missions take place in various countries. YOu can and must switch between different 
 types of characters such as medic, soldier, engineer, covert-ops. And only cetain types of characters 
 can complete certain objectives. There are many vehicles you can use to accomplish your tasks; 
 everything from small ATVs to flying war machines to tanks. You can give orders for your squad 
 to follow, call for a medic, call for transport, call for ammo. There's a map that shows you where 
 you're to proceed to your next objective and the type of character needed to complete that objective, 
 then you hit the select button, select that character that is needed and he will parachute into 
 the mission at the destination of your choosing. 
  
  The game is very fast paced with three difficulty levels. I first started on medium but found it 
 too difficult and ultimately frustrating so I started over on easy and found that much more to 
 my suiting and much more fulfilling. It's fun and it's fast and you have to think and use strategy 
 to accomplish your goals. It's a solid game with gameplay that can be compared to Shadowrun or 
 Warhawk on the PS3. Graphics are superb. I have no complaints on this one. Multiplayer seems immersive 
 and the whole game is innovative in that I can think of no other game exactly like it. Good solid 
 stuff here and a different type of Quake game from anything in the series before it. A nice change 
 of direction for the series. So it boggles my mind even further why it's not getting more attention 
 especially since the fans and critics seem to be giving it solid reviews. See my blog for further 
 discussion on this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lucienlites
Rating: 6
Date: May 29, 2008 9:31 am PT
Review:  Uninspired.
  Plain and simple.
  Xbox graphics on a next gen console.
  Steee-rike 1.
  Lame weapon selection, kinda like prizes out of a cereal box with about as much punch.
  Steee-rike 
 2.
  Although it did remind me (kind of) of Star Wars Battlefront,
  it was *fun* for about 30 minutes, and at a $60.00 price tag, and a port
  from the PC at that.... way 
 too much to pay for little or no play.
  Steee-rike 3.
  Yer outta there.
  Pass on this one..... rental maybe during the week, but not
  even a weekend rental.
  You may 
 want to think twice about the gas you would use to drive to the store.
  (and what a waste that would be)
  If you really want to try this one, wait until you have several 
 errands to run before
  you head to your video game store, that way you will have at least taken care of some important 
 things before you wasted your money on this purchase.
  Take my word.
  Rental only. (if even that... like on a wed. or thurs.) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Red_Gale
Rating: 6
Date: May 29, 2008 6:28 am PT
Review:  Lots of guns, great maps, cool vehicles, inch level detail, unique multiplayer, I was seriously 
 amped up for this game. After playing it for two days and trying hard to like it I feel disappointed. 
 The controls are clunky (flight school needed for aerial vehicles, placing artillery objects is 
 frustrating as hell) , the gameplay is not very dynamic (always on offense or always on defense) 
 and the graphics are simply not what I read about in the previews. The character models are bland, 
 the backgrounds are... flat... and the guns feel like they are from the first Doom game. The inch-level 
 detail that I kept reading about must just be for the PC version, because it certainly isn't apparent 
 on the 360. On the plus side, the maps are fantastic and the concept is still gold - I hope the 
 next Enemy Territory is executed much better, this one simply doesn't cut it. I would recommend 
 either renting this one or wait until it gets discounted substantially - definitely not a release 
 week purchase, if you buy it at all. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
