-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Eragon
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/xbox360/action/eragon/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Some of the magic attacks are fun to use at first.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Combat is extremely repetitive and tedious.
 Poor hit detection, buggy artificial intelligence, frustrating camera angles.
 The game is short and has very little replay value.
 Local multiplayer only, no online play.
 Ugly character models, jerky animations, and an all-around lackluster presentation.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Dec 11, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 4.2
Critic Score: 5.0, 35 Review (s)
User Score: 5.0, 661 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Sierra Entertainment
Developer: Stormfront Studios
Genre: Fantasy Action Adventure
Date: Nov 14, 2006
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Eragon relies entirely on tedious, unenthusiastic gameplay that's way too shallow to sustain interest 
 for more than a few minutes. 

  Eragon the video game is based on the movie, which itself is based on the book of the same name. 
 It's a typical fantasy world full of dragons, wizards, and magic, which would seem to lend itself 
 well to a video game adaptation in the vein of the very good series of Lord of the Rings action 
 games that came out alongside those movies. In fact, the Eragon game bears a striking resemblance 
 to those Lord of the Rings games, which only makes sense because the games were all developed by 
 the same company. But while the Lord of the Rings games were well-polished action games, Eragon 
 feels unfinished and lazily thrown together. It's the same basic hack-and-slash principle that's 
 readily accessible to just about any fan of the film, but Eragon feels like a skeleton of a game 
 that's been padded out with some licensed content. There's not nearly enough to make the game interesting 
 or even remotely worth playing, though. The action is mindless and repetitive at best, and buggy 
 and unresponsive at worst. In addition, the presentation ranges from bland to ugly, the game is 
 short, the fixed camera angles are frustrating, and there is no online play. Even for a straightforward 
 action game, Eragon has very little to offer.  

          Dragons, magic, wizards. How did this go so wrong?     

  Eragon is a young farm boy 
 in the fantasy world of Alagaesia. One day while out hunting, the boy stumbles upon a glowing blue 
 orb that he thinks is a stone. Come to find out, it's actually a dragon egg. Eventually, a dragon 
 hatches from the egg and Eragon discovers that he shares a magical bond with the creature. Turns 
 out Eragon has been chosen as a legendary dragon rider, which is a warrior with special magic abilities 
 that flies around on dragons and fights the impending evil that's sweeping across the land at the 
 behest of a ruthless tyrant. It's up to Eragon to save the day by hacking through an army of clones 
 in several linear, uninspired, and mercifully short levels.  

  You control Eragon, and you start out as a relatively feeble farmer. You have a sword and a bow, 
 and you quickly learn to use magic, as well. There are 16 levels in the game, with a couple extra 
 levels if you're playing the Xbox 360 version. You'll spend most of your time on foot, fighting 
 wave after wave of generic enemies. You have a quick strike, a powerful strike, and a block for 
 melee combat. You can string together combos of the two strikes to pull off special moves like 
 grapples or knock downs. But even with those few moves, the action still boils down to mashing 
 buttons until your thumb (or your brain) goes numb.  

  The enemies are all easy to kill, but they do take quite a few hits. So you can hack away at a 
 foe uninterrupted for several seconds before he finally goes down, only to repeat the process with 
 a dozen more enemies. It doesn't help matters that the hit detection is spotty at best. You'll 
 often find yourself swinging away and watching your blade go right through your foes with no effect 
 whatsoever. You can use a bow in the game to pick off enemies from afar, but since your bow does 
 even less damage than your sword, you'll have to spend a long time slinging arrows at an enemy 
 before it finally dies. There are some platforming sections in each level that require you to shimmy 
 along ledges, climb up buildings or other structures, leap small gaps, and tiptoe across narrow 
 beams. None of it is the least bit interesting or challenging, and it ends up feeling perfunctory 
 and pointless.  

  As a dragon rider, Eragon is able to use magic, which factors into the combat in the game. The 
 magic does actually make for some enjoyable moments, such as when you light enemies on fire and 
 watch as they run off a cliff in a panic, or when you use magic to pull enemies off a high ledge. 
 But even though you can do some fun things with a couple of the magic spells, it does very little 
 to liven up the combat in the long run. Aside from pushing and pulling enemies and lighting them 
 on fire, you can shoot magic arrows and use your magic to interact with the environment. Certain 
 objects in the environment can be moved or rearranged using your magic. It's not very interesting, 
 though, because you can't choose what you interact with or how you do it. Instead, it's usually 
 along the lines of moving a pile of conveniently placed loose boards to create a makeshift bridge 
 between two platforms.  

  Being a dragon rider, you do get to fly around on a dragon from time to time, but it's not nearly 
 as fun as it sounds. The few flying levels in the game play like a rail shooter, where you fly 
 around on a predetermined path and shoot enemies with magic arrows or blast them with your dragon's 
 fire breath. The levels are simple loops, so you fly around in circles and kill the same enemies 
 as they respawn endlessly. It's like being on a very tedious treadmill, because you never actually 
 get anywhere. You just kill enemies until you've met the predetermined quota for the level.  

 
  You can easily beat Eragon in six hours, and once you've done that there's no reason to go back 
 and play it again. Perhaps the only good news is that if you're playing the Xbox 360 version of 
 the game, you can get some easy achievement points by completing each of the short levels on normal 
 and hard difficulty settings. Other than that, there's not much to do in Eragon. A second player 
 can join in at any moment during the game to play cooperatively, but the co-op suffers because 
 both characters have to move in unison to keep all the action contained within one screen. This 
 means that unless your partner moves with you, you can't go anywhere. It's also frequently possible 
 for one character to get stuck behind an object in the environment if the other character moves 
 too far ahead. One solution for that would be to let you play the game online, where each player 
 has his or her own screen, but that feature is conspicuously absent. It's not a major loss, because 
 this game isn't any more fun cooperatively than it is solo, but it's just one more way in which 
 Eragon comes up short.  

  Another way that Eragon fails to impress is in its presentation. The game looks best on the Xbox 
 360, but even then it doesn't look good. The character models are all blocky and undefined, and 
 although it's common in games of this type, the fact that there are only a handful of enemies to 
 face just makes the game look and feel cheap. You'll see the exact same mobs over and over throughout 
 the entire game. The fact that many of the levels look quite similar also makes the game feel repetitive 
 and shallow, as if each level is exactly the same as the one before it. The character animations 
 are no better. The few canned animations look decent, and some of the finishing moves are pretty 
 brutal (and bloody if you're playing the PC or Xbox 360 version) , especially for a T-rated game. 
 However, most of the time the animations are stilted and jerky, and you'll often see enemies or 
 ally characters get stuck behind objects and twitch wildly or clip through solid parts of the environment. 

  Eragon also has an extremely frustrating camera. The game employs fixed camera angles, so you have 
 no control over your perspective on the action. That means that if you're behind an object, you're 
 left to fight blind, which happens much more often than it should. The perspective also sometimes 
 hides the path that you need to take to progress through the level. For instance, you might have 
 to hop up and grab a ledge and pull yourself up to the next area, but with the fixed perspective, 
 you won't even be able to tell that ledge is there.  

          If you have a friend nearby, you can play cooperatively, but then you might end up with 
 one less friend.     

  The sound is also disappointing. Some of the music is halfway decent, but the voice acting is stiff 
 and often missing entirely. John Malkovich plays the main enemy in the movie but doesn't have a 
 single speaking line in the game. The actor who plays Eragon provides some voice-over work, but 
 none of it sounds very good, and the dialogue consists almost entirely of terrible one-liners. 
 The sound effects are functional, but there's nothing about the tinny clink of blade against blade 
 to give the combat any weight.  

  Both as an action adventure game, and a licensed work, Eragon comes across as substandard in just 
 about every way imaginable. It feels like an unfinished game that was rushed through to release 
 in time for the movie to appear in theaters. The combat is repetitive, the presentation is dull 
 and lifeless, and the entire game suffers from an apparent lack of effort.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (50 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: melchenyi
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 25, 2009 4:49 pm PT
Review:  Firstly the graphics were pretty good especially since we don't even have a HD-TV and could still 
 see 3D effects pretty well. This was one of the few 2 player games that the boyfriend and I bought 
 so we could play together. Gotta say it did get us hooked but was pretty short and we finished 
 it in like a week's time, playing about an hour or so each day. It's probably fun if you're playing 
 with someone else. 
  
  This game is probably a bit under-rated and gamers are expecting too much. It's relatively okay 
 for me as the game does follow the story closely and definitely better that the DS version. Although 
 the spell casting could have had more different variations. I also like the fact that when playing 
 2-player, your partner can control how the dragon flies while I just have to fire the shots. Good 
 for those who have problems multi-tasking (like me!) . There are probably more scenes where the 
 help of a partner is much needed as compared than playing alone.
  
  Not too many complex controls to remember and basically you just run through the story fighting 
 monsters and bad guys and eventually fight the evil dragon rider and his dragon. But gotta admit 
 though it's short and probably worth to just rent it or but from those shops with 7 day refund 
 policy so you can finish playing and return it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GodDemon
Rating: 1
Date: Mar 2, 2009 8:31 am PT
Review:  A very bad game that fails at everything it trys too do, it was bad in grapics and bad in combat, 
 and bad in voice acting and bad in levels and bad in running and...... bad in everything!
  
  WHY OH WHY DO THEY HAVE TO MAKE A GAME FOR EVERY MOVIE!!!???!??!?!
  
  I rather play a game 
 from ages ago than this again. I coulden't even play more than 10 mins of this crap. That's how 
 bad it is.
  
  
  I mean really.. this game is old gen which is why no one should even give it a 2. It was rushed 
 and was made just for extra money. I wish I hadn't rented it now as it is prehaps one of the worst 
 games on xbox 360!!!!!!
  
  
  This game is not even worth 1p! It is old gen and no one wants that in games anymore! How dare 
 they even release this crap! Have they no respect!!!??? Well I don't think they do! Because this 
 crap goes agaist everything that is good! IT IS BAD!
  
  So...
  
  
  Overall:
  
  Graphics: 1/10
  
  Voice acting: 1/10
  
  combat:1/10
  
  EVERYTHING1/10!
  
  
  
 
  1/10! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sharpytheman
Rating: 5.5
Date: Aug 26, 2008 11:41 am PT
Review:  Eragon is the latest fantasy game that brings you Dragons, magical abilities and sword fighting.
 
  For the uninitiated, Eragon is a tale of a young farm boy who happens to discover the latest dragon 
 egg. As time goes on he then finds that he is the newest dragon rider that has been seen in many 
 years. However, Galbatorix (King of Alagaesia) , who was once a Dragon rider himself but betrayed 
 and murdered the other Dragon riders, is set to kill Eragon and his Dragon Saphira. Galbatorix 
 sends his servant Durza, a powerful shade, to kill them.
  
  Graphics: 6/10
  The graphics on Eragon aren't the best around. There are last year's graphics and not mind blowing 
 yet still ok. Some of the graphics are repeated yet on some parts of the game movie the graphics 
 become quite good. But what the game looses on the graphics it makes it up in the gameplay.
  
  Gameplay: 9/10
  The gameplay on Eragon is quite solid. It keeps the player entertained throughout 
 as you battle through the kings' army, urgals and razacs. On the first level of the game you learn 
 three different combos. As you proceed through the game you learn the art of magic and then later 
 learn new abilities of the magic. The flying levels are quite straightforward; you have to destroy 
 something before your enemies. The flying levels are sometimes a bit of a challenge and make the 
 game more satisfying.
  
  Multiplayer: 7/10
  Although it is enjoyable working with a friend to defeat enemies, the multiplayer mode could have 
 been thought about more to make it a bit more exciting.
  
  Overall: 7.5/10
  Eragon is a solid game and is enjoyable throughout. It is a steady game and the multiplayer is 
 fun between friends. The developers could have maybe worked on the graphics a bit longer before 
 the release of the game. The sound and the gameplay are the main features of the game and make 
 it well worth buying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: godofhell2
Rating: 2.5
Date: Jul 23, 2008 6:38 am PT
Review:  Positive
  - There are worse movie games than Eragon
  
  Negative
  - Horrible visuals and sounds
  - Combat is boring
  - Camera is worse and foes are to easy to 
 beat
  - Poor presentation
  
  Eragon is an extremely boring, poor 'action game'. If you liked either the movie or the book and 
 you play the game you will be absolutely disappointed about this game. Enemies in the game are 
 somehow brainless and dumb. This is one of the tons of things which Eragon has bad, really bad. 
 Most movie games end up like this, unfortunately.
  
  The visuals of Eragon are an absolute mess, terrible I must say. Characters look awful and environments 
 aren't much better. This is a hack-and-slash game? The game is about killing some idiots, or enemies 
 and move on and you will find another group of enemies. Combat is extremely dull and repetitive 
 and gets tedious after a while.
  
  Flying on a dragon seems like a good idea. But it's not. If you played Drakengard, dragon flying 
 gets boring after some time. Unlike Eragon, the flying gets boring from the very beginning. Ok, 
 the game's presentation is a total letdown. Camera is a real pain in the neck. Camera angulations 
 is awful, sometimes the action isn't seen so good and that might be a good idea. But still the 
 camera is a royal pain. I remind how bad the action is. Music and voice acting, I don't have to 
 do longer, are horrible and also disappointing.
  
  Eragon is a very repetitive, very frustrating and very disappointing game. Trust me, if you liked 
 the book or the movie, stick to those. If you are a die-hard fan of Eragon you might appreciate 
 some things in the game, but Eragon is a letdown like most movie games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FoxyNate
Rating: 3
Date: May 15, 2008 7:42 pm PT
Review:  Being a tremendous lover of the Inheritance Series (The books Eragon and Eldest) I was EXTEMELY 
 disappointed in both the movie and the video game. Of course everyone knows that movies and video 
 games leave out quite a bit when being translated from a book, but that's not really a case with 
 Eragon. Yes, they did leave out some of the very most important characters and happenings, but 
 even those that are shown in the movie and video game are the total 100% opposite of what Christopher 
 Paolini wrote. It's stupid.
  Now 'bout the game itself. I hate how you have absolutely no control over the camera angles therefore 
 it is very difficult to move around or see some of the pathways that you have to take. It makes 
 it especially hard to find the secret eggs, but I guess that's ok. The dragon-riding is probably 
 also the most lame part of this game, which could have definitely been made MUCH cooler; of course 
 this whole game could be a trillion times better.
  But, for those of us obsessed with gamerscore achievement points this game is worth playing for 
 the easiest 1000 points you can get out of any game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spydersvenom7
Rating: 5
Date: Apr 28, 2008 2:03 pm PT
Review:  I was torn with this game. No one liked it and everyone said it was kind of difficult from an annoying 
 "babysit the partner AI perspective". I liked the movie and I must admit that I'm trying to bust 
 out some achievement points as I'm in a contest to 30,000 points with someone else and I'm almost 
 there. I will say this much, before this review even starts, if you can't handle repetition and 
 want instant points, I'd skip this. The game barely changes at all, has so much repetition, and 
 will take you a good 8-12 hours to get all 1,000 points. On that same note, this game wasn't as 
 bad as I initially thought. In fact, for a moment, I even caught myself having fun.
  
  The game has a very small learning curve. You have two simple attack buttons, the triggers work 
 with arrows and magic, and there's some simple jumping (in that you can't really fall from ledges) . 
 You basically hack and slash your way through hordes of bad guys in an attempt to get to the end 
 of a level. It follows you through the basic storyline and has 18 (sometimes endless) levels to 
 beat through, and even has some dragon flying missions. This is sadly, as I said before, where 
 the game falls from grace. It was completely horrible and made the levels involving it not fun. 
 The first time you control Sephira you can't breathe fire and you get used to her horrible controls 
 and weak response time. Then the next two times you take flight with fire, you are forced to fly 
 in circles for what seems to be an eternity, and you get to the point that just getting to the 
 end without falling asleep being the true challenge. 
  
  For the average player, jump into this bad boy on Hard, especially if you're going for achievements. 
 Watching out for your partner, especially on 3 specific levels, can be an annoyance, but once you 
 learn how to better manipulate them it's not so bad. As for the achievements, you need to beat 
 the game on hard and normal, plus find one secret egg per level (only missed 3 the first time through 
 on hard) , so nothing crazy, just time consuming. I recommend completing it on hard then burning 
 through it on medium. If you don't mind repetition and love hack 'n slash, this is everything you've 
 played before with an Eragon skin. It's for this reason alone that I must give this game a simple 
 5.0. Nothing great, a few horrible moments, and no innovation. It's not horrible, though. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WalkingP
Rating: 4
Date: Feb 13, 2008 9:41 pm PT
Review:  "Fulfill the destiny of the legendary Dragon Rider." At least that's the way it was advertised. 
 To read the package, it really sets your hopes up: Fight alongside or astride your dragon ally 
 or take wing as saphira to scorch and destroy the forces of the evil Galbatorix. Overcome foes 
 with a deep combat system, featuring grapples, combos and devastating magic attacks." Sound good? 
 No matter how good it sounds, put it back on the shelf and save your money for a good game.
  
  Eragon is just another marketeering game of what was actually a good movie. Unfortunately, 
 rarely do you find a game that lives up to its movie namesake. This game was a total failure. Even 
 though it played through without crashing, the game play was poor and jumpy; the characters were 
 hard to control and battles were repetitious. Both the character and environment graphics were 
 poor. The actual game play was so monotonous that the storyline was just lost. Watch the movie 
 and leave the game alone; you'll have a much more enjoyable experience.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: KarelTheSword
Rating: 3
Date: Jan 21, 2008 12:30 pm PT
Review:  If you have read the book you would have had high expectations for the game and movie. Both were 
 very bad but the game takes the cake. This unimaginative action game has you fighting LOTR style 
 but with even less combos and actions. Magic breaks up the boredom a bit but it barely has any 
 interesting roles. The story is told in broken visions which are poorly animated and look like 
 something you would find on the SNES. The in- game visuals are equally bad and look as if they 
 didn't change the Gamecube version for 360. Overall the game shines about as bright as a stairwell 
 in a power outage. I can not say i reccomend it at all. If you are complete fans of the movie/book 
 and want a cheap adaptation to feel like you are in it then sure, but otherwise I advise you to 
 keep your distance from this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Belfento
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jan 6, 2008 7:32 am PT
Review:  Predictably, a game based on Eragon, a movie based on the book of the same name was created and 
 released. Even more predictably, the game is short, sometimes broken, and generally not that much 
 fun to play. There are some good things about it, and the game does have its moments, but those 
 are not enough to salvage this game from the invariable mediocrity that is licensed games.
  
  The game is basically a mixture of hack-and-slash, platforming, and dragon riding. The hack-and-slash 
 aspect of the game extremely frustrating and repetitive, due in no small part to the horrendous 
 fixed-position camera, which seems to be working against you most of the time. Rarely will the 
 camera give you a decent view of the action. Instead, it seems content with hiding you behind enemies 
 and objects, and certainly does an exceptional job of obscuring the path to the next screen, forcing 
 you wander aimlessly and jump like a madman in every direction until you finally find the hidden 
 hallway or ledge.
  
  The actual combat is what you would expect, meaning that you just run around while mashing the 
 two attack buttons until every enemy is defeated. The hit-detection is also conspiring against 
 you, as you'll often see your sword pass right through an enemy, before getting slammed to the 
 ground. There are a few attacks that can snap a guy out of an attack animation, and you'll most 
 likely be spamming those attacks throughout the game.
  
  Since Eragon is a Dragon Rider, you'll also be able to use magic against your enemies, but these 
 aren't entertaining for very long. You'll be able to push and pull enemies, which is kind of cool 
 the first couple of times, but gets old fast. You'll also get to imbue your arrows with magic, 
 and even set an enemy on fire, but your mana takes forever to recharge after casting these spells, 
 so you won't be using them as often as you would like. Besides attack spells, you also get some 
 context-sensitive spells, but you feel more like you're hitting a generic "action" button than 
 creatively using your magic to overcome various obstacles. Lastly, you occasionally get to summon 
 your dragon to help you, but that ability is also context-sensitive, so it suffers from the same 
 problem.
  
  There are also some platforming elements, such as climbing up and down stuff, and grabbing onto 
 ledges as you make your way across. These are completely boring and not entertaining in the slightest. 
 To make matters worse, the game throws these ledges at you constantly, and half the time, you won't 
 even be able to see them, thanks to the camera.
  
  Where the game really shines is in the dragon riding levels, which can be quite fun. At this point, 
 the game becomes a rail shooter, as you move your dragon, shoot exploding arrows, and breathe deadly 
 fire on your enemies. The only problem is that you're essentially flying around in a circle, so 
 you'll notice the level loop constantly as you take out the enemies, and then take them out again, 
 since they respawned, and repeat the process until you either kill X enemies or simply die. The 
 fire looks awesome, and it's always fun to kill hordes of enemies over and over again, watching 
 as they make pathetic attempts to bring you down. What would make it really great would be some 
 sort of leveling system.
  
  Unfortunately, that's not the case. What you get is the same pretentious character development 
 system that movie-based games often employ, where you receive fixed upgrades to your arsenal at 
 the end of every level, that do not stick with you should you return to a previous level. This 
 also makes killing enemies pointless (unless it's required) , and eventually you'll just attempt 
 to skip the fights entirely to make the game end faster.
  
  There's also a co-op mode, that lets a second player take control of the CPU ally (or the dragon, 
 in the aerial levels) , but adding a second player to the mix only makes the camera angrier, since 
 both players are needed to advance to the next screen. Occasionally you'll get lucky and the player 
 left behind will simply teleport to the right location, but more often than not, one player will 
 be stopped by an invisible wall, which will remain there until the other player catches up.
  
  The storyline is weak, and only enforces the idea that you're just some random guy running 
 around random environments killing random people who randomly want you dead. This did not surprise 
 me in the least, but there was one particular moment that caught my attention. In one level, you 
 run through an endless tower, and meet the bad guy, who, in one of the biggest Star Wars rip-offs 
 I've ever seen, commands you to join him, before getting shot in the face by some guy who just 
 happened to be in the right place at the right time.
  
  The graphics themselves aren't nearly as bad as the game. While the character models look dry, 
 the environment looks nice, the draw distance is never a problem, and the game manages to hold 
 a steady frame rate throughout the adventure. On the audio side of the spectrum, the voice acting 
 is passable, but the script is full of terrible puns and one-liners. It's especially bad in the 
 first half of the game, where you're partnered with Brom. His suggestions to "use your magic again" 
 are annoying, and so frequent that you'll soon wish you never had magic powers. The musical score 
 is actually exceptional, and it does its best to keep you engaged, a feat that would have been 
 accomplished, had the game not been so bad.
  
  The main quest takes about 5-6 hours, and it's a good opportunity to earn some easy achievement 
 points, but once you're done, it's unlikely that you'll ever return to this world. The dragon riding 
 levels are fun, and the music is great, but in the end, the negatives definitely outweigh the positives. 
 This game should not deserve a place in your collection, but if you're at all curious, you might 
 as well give it a rent.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: SoralinkGS
Rating: 4
Date: Dec 21, 2007 1:27 pm PT
Review:  Eragon is a game you find in the bargain bin after the holiday season has had its way with poor 
 sales. The game is based on a movie that did almost equally as bad, so its actually fitting that 
 this game bombed. Anyways, lets get to review, so you know all the juicy details of why this game 
 bombed.
  
  Gameplay:
  The gameplay of Eragon is simply defined as a mix of Panzer Dragoon and Lord of the Rings and doing 
 a poor job at preforming both. The Lord of the Rings levels are pretty boring affairs, with plenty 
 of button mashing and special attaks to preform. Many will find the combat so boring that they 
 will just stand on the side of a battle and shoot arrows at the enemies, which when drawn to full 
 strength, can kill the enemies with one hit. Meanwhile, either your co-op buddy or CPU get beat 
 to death. To make matters worse, the game features no online component whatsoever, something that 
 is expected after the Return of the King's online effort on PS2. Most of the dullness in combat 
 comes from the constant repeat of enemies with no real changes through out the game. Their are 
 always two armies against you, the Urgals and the King's men, and both feature the same set of 
 enemies, sans the fact that Urgals got those walking beast that are clearly made to replace the 
 Ogres enemies from LOTR.
  
  Now, as for the Panzer Dragoon levels, they only make up roughly %30 of the game, and they are 
 just as or even worse than the LOTR levels. The first thing you notice about these are that they 
 actually pose a challenge compared to LOTR levels. Most of this comes from the fact that levels 
 are somewhat glitchy, leading to a trail and error state to figure out what parts are glitchy and 
 also what to kill. Yes, you will die a great deal on these levels, trying to figure out whats killing 
 you everytime you fly through a certain valley or gorge.
  
  Graphics:
  Probably the worst graphical game on the Xbox 360 to date. I mean, it looks like they did nothing 
 to make it stand out from a typical Playstation 2 affair. Everything has a very flat look to it, 
 and to make matters worse, the game even features a somewhat staler look when played in HD. My 
 best bet would be that they literally took the engine from LOTR series and just changed a few models 
 and animations to make it Eragon. Finally, the game features loads of glitches in the Panzer Dragoon 
 Levels and the LOTR levels have a great amount of clipping going on when in tight corridors (I didn't 
 know you can fight in mid-air by the way...) .
  
  Sound:
  This is actually one of the best things about this game. The voice-acting is actually decent for 
 a change, and the music is pretty great, despite only have like 5-6 tracks in the soundtrack. yes, 
 you will be driven bonkers by the same songs over and over by the end of the game, but lucky, this 
 is Xbox 360, so you got custom tracks, which works smoothly as well.
  
  Story:
  To tell the truth, the story line the game gives actually makes me want to see the movie at some 
 point. The story is pretty much supposed to be the story of Eragon, which is that he is a new dragon 
 rider and this is his quest to save the world, or something like that. Along the way, cool people 
 on your side die, and some chick helps you save your dragon at some point. You kill the leader 
 of the other side at the end of the game and that raps it up. Yeah?
  
  Overall: 4.0/10.0
  This game is probably not worth anyone's time at this point except for hardcore Eragon fans and 
 achievement lovers since the game's achievements are among the easiest to obtain. LOTR fans are 
 better off waiting for the next game to attempt this type of action since you will grow bored within 
 the first mission. If your still interested in the game, May I suggest buying it used over renting 
 it? The game is easy to find with a $8-10 price tag and possibly lower by the time some people 
 read this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lisaanne30
Rating: 4
Date: Dec 8, 2007 4:40 pm PT
Review:  I Was disappointed in the game. It looked so awesome and i loved the book and movie so couldn't 
 wait to play it, but after about 20 minutes regretted buying it.
  
  
  
  A good game to rent but not worth buying in my opinion. short play time and annoying fight commands. 
 It is not like many games where like x hits or what ever it is like xxo , xox, oox, tons of annoying 
 fight commands to hit which got old and anoying to fast for me. 
  Easy to beat and not much fun to replay. Graphics are okay but not great. story is the same as 
 the book pretty much so okay story line Which was the best part about the game . Just didn't find 
 it a challenge at all and wouldn't recommend buying it at all but pick it up by rental before you 
 buy to make sure. 
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Naoby27
Rating: 1
Date: Oct 7, 2007 3:57 pm PT
Review:  Good  you turn of the console? No! Wait! Too sarcastic! When you break 
 (that's right, BREAK) the disc? Ya! That's better! Bad Part (or: the only existing one...) : You don't 
 control the magic, the graphics are as good as a playstation 2 game. No! As good as a playstation 
 1 game. There are some (almost non-existant) cool combos but just some. Level design is completely 
 dumb, the puzzles aren't puzzles and the boss fight in the end of the game is the EASIER part of 
 the game! The music is great (but I didn't put in the good part because of the joke) and the voice 
 acting is ok. RESUMING: Life's good. Til' you buy this game... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JTShadow
Rating: 1
Date: Sep 11, 2007 11:57 am PT
Review:  I just recently rented this game from Gamefly and decided to give it a shot. The game starts simple 
 enough in a small tutorial level teaching you the basic controls of the game, but once the game 
 really starts, you just wish it will soon end. This game is just a button masher and doesn't really 
 require much skill at all, although they try to add in bow attacks, magic and calling in aid from 
 your dragon for flavor, it just doesn't work. This game is extremely easy, but terribly slow paced 
 getting you nowhere fast. For all the reasons stated above, I have to give this 1 sad dragon out 
 of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spartan_lord
Rating: 5.5
Date: Sep 8, 2007 7:49 pm PT
Review:  this game is hallerios
  when your the main character continuosly press x while standing still its awsum.
  looks so funny.
 
  anoying that you have to play throuhg on medium if yourve finished it on hard casue realy its 
 not good enough to be played twice.
  and gamescore ++++
  its alot like zena the warrior princes. lololol
  halo 3 in 15 days guys ( (woot) get that instead 
 of this , this is a rent only, unles you have children ages 0 to 6 months that want to play it.
 
  
  this game contains (per serving) : energy : 665 kj protein : 0 g
  fat total : 0 g -saturated: 0 g
  carbohydrate : 39 g
  -sugers :39 g
  sodium : 390 mg
  caffine 
 : 109 mg
  riboflavin (B2) : 1.7mg
  niacin (B3) : 10mg
  vitamin B6 : 1.6 mg
  vitamin B12 : 2 ug
  pantothenic acid : 2.5 mg
  taurine : 700 mg
  glucuronolactone : 88 mg
 
  inositol : 70 mg
  
  5c refund at collection depots when sold in S. A. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: etherealsyn
Rating: 1.6
Date: Aug 7, 2007 5:32 pm PT
Review:  This game is truely horrible. Lets dig through and get the positives. 1) This game holds some minor 
 hack and slash enjoyment for an hour ... maybe 2.
  
  2) Its pretty cheap now adays
  
  3) Achievement points (basically a free 900 -1000
  
  4) Fairly short
  
  Now lets cover 
 the bad
  
  1) Clipping. Your sword will pass through enemies and do no damage, I have walked through my partner 
 character, I have stood with a sword sticking through a wall, etc.
  
  2) Camera - I havent played a game with this bad of a camera. It is fixed. If you walk behind a 
 post, you cannot see. The post does not go transluscent, the post does not disappear, you just 
 cant see. Add to this trying to fight. You cannot zoom out with the camera. You cannot change the 
 camera angle. You cannot look around. You have one little place where you can view and that is 
 all. PERIOD. Very frustraiting
  
  3) Difficulty. Lets review. Hard Normal and Easy. Easy should be easier than Normal, Normal easier 
 than Hard. I cannot tell any difference between the three difficulty settings. If anything I had 
 a harder time on Normal than I did Hard. (Easy is worthless as no achievement points are awarded 
 for easy)
  
  4) Two Player Mode- Should be a plus since there are few 360 games with Multiplayer on the same 
 Xbox. I had high hopes (and was the reason I bought this game) . Unfortunately you spend more time 
 working against each other (due to the camera) than you do helping as you share the same small 
 space.
  
  5) Off screen enemies. Anyone else have an issue with shooting an arrow at an enemy you cannot 
 even see! 6) glitchyness: I even saw my escort (partner) character start doing a little dance due 
 to the animation getting STUCK.
  
  7) Graphics - VERY LAST GEN. Little to no real next gen feel. Worst is when you watch a soldier 
 run toward you with an arrow sticking out of his face! Or one out of each LUNG!!!
  
  Bottom line this game is HORRIBLE. I wouldnt even recommend this one even for the achievement points. 
 Its just not worth your money 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bodyguard99
Rating: 6
Date: Aug 4, 2007 11:21 pm PT
Review:  I'm writing about eragon 'cause I feel bad for that poor game, surely it's not a masterpiece, but 
 it's not as bad as some may tell it. Well, let's go for the good points, the learning curves pretty 
 easy, the graphics are, well, passable (they are especially good on the dragon riding missions) , 
 the acting voice are from the real actors from the movie, and it's an easy game for the achievement 
 hunters. The bad points, the battles and the backgrounds are repetitive, the game lags on many 
 occasions, and the battles are somewhat idiotic, you kill everyone with one single arrow but you 
 have to bash them with your sword 100 times before they die............????
  
  Well, besides of that, the games worth a rental, but surely not a purchase, and a little message 
 for some people who write reviews: it's not because YOU don't like a game that you have to score 
 it 1.0, if you write a review, try to be a little objective.
  
  Nice gaming 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AuthItalynGyrl
Rating: 2.9
Date: Jun 18, 2007 7:25 am PT
Review:  Eragon  A Fantasy Action Adventure game, based on the movie, which was based on the book. You 
 are a young boy who quickly finds he is a chosen dragon rider and needs to learn everything you 
 can within days to defeat the enemy and save the land. Eragon was the game that got me back into 
 gaming. I was excited about it at first, enjoyed playing the game; it wasnt to hard, the controls 
 were easy, the story line seemed to be good enough. I took a very long break from this game and 
 started to get back to my love of Halo, Prince of Persia, introduced to God of War I and II, and 
 eventually came back to play Eragon to finish what I had started. I was sorely disappointed in 
 not only the game, but myself for thinking at one point this game was good and fun to play.
  
  Eragon is not a challenging game, you can zoom through the levels fairly quickly, and I say 
 fairly because you get swarmed at some points with a dozen or so enemies to wade through. You 
 are equipped with 3 weapons: A sword that is very choppy to use; I would initiate the finishing 
 move and stab the ground rather then my enemies, or stab my enemy directly and it wouldnt affect 
 his health at all. A bow and arrow that can get quiet annoying to use at some points; to get a 
 direct one shot kill you must sit for 3 -5 seconds for Eragon to hone in on the target and by 
 then, more then half the time, an alternate enemy would come swipe me with his sword and break 
 my honing in and Id have to kill him and start all over again. Forget about quick arrow shots, 
 they seem to give the enemy more health rather then take it away and thats only if it actually 
 HITS your target. Your last weapon is magic; Eragon gains different levels of magic throughout 
 the game, but none were worthy of being a favorite. A magic arrow shot works mediocre when you 
 have a swarm of 10 enemies coming at you, you are able to knock them down and give yourself time 
 to move away. Push/Pull magic works well as long as you have a ledge to Push or Pull the enemy 
 off of, other then that its just annoying to pull the enemy closer to you and get swatted at by 
 there sword. You get 3 or 4 prompts throughout the game where you can call upon your dragon; you 
 dont have the option to call her at any time which, to me, was a bit disappointing. You do get 
 to fly your dragon in a few of the boards, the controls were horrible and the views were even worse, 
 just when I thought I would clear a rock or mountain, id end up smashing right into it causing 
 myself damage. Graphics quality really was just horrible, and blotchy. When you are flying, as 
 I stated above, you do not get a clear view as to where you are flying, the camera angle chooses 
 which way you are to fly, verses you being able to choose where you would like to go. You stab 
 the ground instead of an enemy, occasionally I found myself floating in the air and not walking 
 on a beam. The Sound wasnt so great either, Eragon would repeat the same thing (not even sure 
 what he was saying) when he used magic, and it got quiet irritating at times. The same music plays 
 over and over, giving a very monotonous feel and can make you very sleepy while playing. All in 
 all, I dont recommend you running out to play this game, unless you are buying it for your child, 
 niece or nephew who is 5 or under. Its not a very good game for hardcore gamers, but it is a good 
 way to get newbie gamers, or children use to using a controller on a console system. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XxTMETODOWORKxX
Rating: 2.8
Date: Jun 10, 2007 11:22 pm PT
Review:  Having read the books in the eragon series i was thrilled when a video game came out for it, but 
 not even a minute into playing the game i could already see how unbelievably terrible the game 
 is. The graphics are horrible and the story line is way worse than i ever immagined possible. The 
 game is just plain hard to play it is so terrible. I would not reccomend this game to anybody especially 
 people that like the eragon series because it has the potential of screwin up your perspective 
 of the series. I regret ever buying this game and i dont think i would get any money trying to 
 sell this game to a game store because it isnt worth crap. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JNU13
Rating: 5.8
Date: May 28, 2007 8:39 am PT
Review:  This game has a cr@p story, decent controls, and the graphics are worse then the PS2 version. This 
 game could be a lot better. The powers are thye only cool part about this game. Everything else 
 is like, O. I only paid $16 for this game because they had VG deals this weekend. This is not a 
 game a 360 owner should ever buy. Never ever buy this piece of junk. It was fun for 5 minutes. 
 I think any game is better than this one. I never was a mythic fan but this is a piece of cr@p. 
 Don't buy this, controls are bad, the gameplay is way to simple. Try a good game not this waste 
 of $16 . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Geek-God
Rating: 3.4
Date: May 24, 2007 3:26 pm PT
Review:  I first saw the game video when i saw eragon. It looked good. I literaly walked right accross the 
 street and bought it. Me and My freind finihsed it in about 1 hour. I admit that some aspects are 
 fun. Jumping on the big guys (Which arent mentioned in the book OR movie) is fun yet as i said totally 
 non related. Its way to easy and even the movie as well as the book and game are rip offs of Lord 
 of the Rings. This game leaves you bored, unsatisfeid and wanting to cleanse yourself. Its possibly 
 the worst game i've played for xbox 360. Do yoursleves a favor, DONT BUY THIS GAME!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: evios
Rating: 7
Date: May 5, 2007 2:56 pm PT
Review:  This game isnt the best there is going out there, thats for sure. The story is you being a young 
 farm boy going out to save the world on his magical flying dragon. The evil king and his shade, 
 like a magician, are breaking the land as slowly as they can and its up to Eragon to stop them. 
 From that, youd think of an alright game, right? Well you were wrong. Most of the time, your just 
 slicing at enemies, or shooting them, and the worst part about it is that you have no controll 
 over the camera, and half the time cant even see the guys. This game isnt a buy, maybe a rent. 
 Hopefully the creators of Eragon can own up to their mistakes if they even bother making the sequals 
 to it for the dissapointed fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TMass1
Rating: 3.4
Date: Apr 15, 2007 10:42 am PT
Review:  don't waste my time showing game play and voice acting that sucks, while at the same time saying 
 how both are very good. By the way, the graphics look terrible. And now i will take up some words 
 to let the review be entered. And now i will take up some words to let the review be entered. And 
 now i will take up some words to let the review be entered. And now i will take up some words to 
 let the review be entered. And now i will take up some words to let the review be entered. And 
 now i will take up some words to let the review be entered. And now i will take up some words to 
 let the review be entered. And now i will take up some words to let the review be entered. And 
 now i will take up some words to let the review be entered. And now i will take up some words to 
 let the review be entered. And now i will take up some words to let the review be entered. And 
 now i will take up some words to let the review be entered. And now i will take up some words to 
 let the review be entered. And now i will take up some words to let the review be entered. And 
 now i will take up some words to let the review be entered. And now i will take up some words to 
 let the review be entered. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: qwertipopp
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 6, 2007 2:54 am PT
Review:  Wow the first X360 game I own and it's Eragon, please don't judge me on that. Still it's not torture 
 playing it and the acheivments are easy enough
  
  Gameplay- surpisingly deep, you have two basic attacks which oddly enough are strong and light 
 you can also chain them together to form combos. You would not be wrong comparing it to Marvel 
 ultimate alliance accept it's rarther more fluid in Eragon. You have a bow and the classic infinite 
 ammo quiver and as you progess through the game unlock various types of magic, push, pull, fire and 
 sheild. It's rather basic but it adds some meagre amount of depth to a shallow game. One odd thing 
 about the gameplay is the sheer amount of ways to one hit kill enemies, You can use your bow for 
 headshot, push them off cliffs or burn them with magic and kill them with your sword if they're 
 on the floor.
  
  
  Graphics- The graphics are unimpressive though I don't remember them ever coming across as especially 
 bad. The game tells the story through uninspired comic book style cutscenes which are flat out 
 bad. Artistically it could be argued that, certainly in some places the game reflects the gritty 
 style of the harder parts of Eragons journey. Unfortunatly, you'd be flat out wrtong if you said 
 that. The levels are linear ( with the execption of the dragon riding levels ) although strangly 
 look quite nice and the designers have hiden an egg in each level which unlocks a 'making of' featurette.
 
  
  Sound- Really nothing to say here, the music is all lifted from the film and the sound effects 
 and voiceovers are awful. The music is fairly rousing although as it's taken from the film it makes 
 the sound seem like the design team tought thedy could cut a few corners. The actors from the film 
 have all reprised they respective roles and to be honest they're all rubbish with the possible 
 execption of brom who is only mediocre.
  
  Replayability- The designers have cleverly gone for acheivments you have to go through each level 
 several times for- i. e play level A on easy, play level A on normal and ,guess what, play through 
 level A on hard. And they don't
  apply to each other, so youy're have to playt each level a minimum of three times and on top of 
 that find the egg.
  
  Extras- The unlockable 'making of' films are interesting if rather uninspired. They also have an 
 unintentional comedic value due to the fact that several of the designers seem to jerk about, unable 
 to sit still. There's an unlockable arena level which consists of fighting row after row of enemies 
 which in the grand tradition of arenas steadily get harder.
  
  Conclusion- The good base ideas are undermined by repitive combat, strangly hard combat and generally 
 lazy finish to the game. It's not brilliant but it's not absolutely awful either 
::::::

::::::
UserName: x0x0x0x0
Rating: 1.9
Date: Apr 6, 2007 2:16 am PT
Review:  This is the worst game i've ever played for the xbox 360 ever.. the graphics, sound, the GAMEPLAY 
 ( the worst.) I found myself not trying the boring combo's anymore and just kept hitting the basic 
 attack button. Over and over again = (
  
  So I give an overall rating of 1.9 - abysmal. I'd like to hear what other people think about this 
 game, If you take it in my point of view or of the complete opposite.
  
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
 YaZzA bE - 3855 gamer score None in eragon it's on my old account. My next review will most likely 
 be The elder scrolls: IV. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stillereize
Rating: 4.7
Date: Mar 24, 2007 12:00 am PT
Review:  All I can say is its an okay rental for acheivement points. Some of the easiest points I have ever 
 come across. Story, gameplay, music, graphics, are all . . . well . . . not heterosexual in the 
 video game department. All I can add is don't buy this for anyone. Just rent it, get all your points 
 in couple days out of it and then send it back because by the time you get your points you can't 
 wait to get rid of this archaic piece of hurry up and lets capitalize on the license crap! Boring. 
 Must add wine, Girls Gone Wild, and loud music to get this game off the ground. Even hard is easy. 
 The power orbs are useless. The secret eggs are less than secret. It's made for somebody who's 
 never played video games and this is their first time. It's easy, boring, and way to easy. Oh, 
 I said that already. Rent, don't buy. If you do, then all your friends will think you're retarded 
 or something. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Goldenboy467
Rating: 5.3
Date: Mar 23, 2007 12:41 pm PT
Review:  The good: Satisfying hack and slash, well designed magic system, the game doesnt feel broken
 
  
  The bad: Bad voice acting, below average graphics, difficulty settings which all seem about the 
 same, short length, fixed camera, lack of side kick self-preservation
  
  The ugly: Dreadful cut scenes, the lack of a compelling story
  
  Overall: This hack and slash 
 game is ok if you enjoy the genre like I do. The magic system is well designed and adds a lot to 
 the gameplay. It is very repetitive and short lived, so even if you like this game, it is not worth 
 the purchase price to own it. The worst part of the game is the lack of a compelling story (generic 
 hero, mentor/side kick character, and villain) . What I cant understand is if the source material 
 is this bad, why would anyone bother making a movie and a game about it? My score: 5.3 out of 10 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ish_gibbor
Rating: 5
Date: Feb 12, 2007 4:05 pm PT
Review:  I beat the game in about 7 hours. Here is my video review - http://www. youtube. com/watch? v=_xNSVMxYIe4
 
  
  I do not know how a game would get 4.2 that works as well as this game does. Sure it is not that 
 great of a game but it WORKS! The combat actually works pretty well. Perhaps if the game did not 
 fuction well and had a lot of bugs I could understand the 4.2
  
  Graphics - The graphics are just slightly better than the xbox, which is sad. Sound - The sound 
 is not bad, but nothing stood out as fantastic. the voice acting is done pretty well. Story - Huh, 
 what story. Seriously there is not much of a story in this game. After beating it I am not sure 
 what the story is reall. Physics - What physics? This game is way out dated. Value - Not really 
 worth a rental unless you have nothing better to rent. If you have a deal where you can rent as 
 many games as you want a month from hollywood or www. gameznflix. com it might be worth checking 
 out. Gameplay - The gameplay is not all that bad. It is a beat em up at core. There is no puzzle 
 sovling like the game claims. The flying levels are pretty lame, which means it is a good thing 
 there are only a few of them. If this game had a cool boss fight for ever level it would be much 
 better. Most of the enemies are pretty lame to fight. However a few of them are sort of fun. For 
 instance there are these large guys, you have to shot them in the face with an arrow to blind them, 
 and then you can beat them in the legs and they fall to their knees. Give them a few beatings on 
 the head and hit the B button and you do a grab move and kick them in the head. You can also jump 
 on their back and rid them but I found most of the time it was hard to do damage this way. Guys 
 with shields force you to do a jump-B attack to breakd their shield or use your block magic. The 
 magic system is sort of cool. You hold down the left trigger and aim in the direction of the enemy 
 you wish to target. A hand will appear on them, then you hit one of the 4 regular bottons. Y pushes 
 them backwards, A pulls them towards you, X makes a blue glow surround you knocking everyone away 
 from you and often times it throws them on their back. Finally the B button shots fire magic at 
 them, which sets them on fire. If you hold down the right trigger and then hit A you shoot arrows 
 at enemies. You can block with X and if you block right when they attack it stuns them, and then 
 you can hit B next to them and grab them and then throw them or beat them with your other hand. 
 There are a few grappling moves. The camera sucks. There is no way to move the camera. You cannot 
 even enter fps mode. The camera is static the whole game. For the most part it does a decent job. 
 But there are times I could not tell where I was supposed to jump to, which was frustrating. If 
 you have nothing better to do, and no more games in your que, try this I guess. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Prof_Frink
Rating: 4.1
Date: Feb 10, 2007 3:14 pm PT
Review:  The concept of the hack and slash video game has been around since the days of the Nintendo Entertainment 
 System and even longer in the arcades. The genre has pretty much died out in the arcades, but still 
 lives strong in the home system market. The most common plot element for these types of games has 
 been based-on-movie games. A few years back, there was the well laid out Lord of the Rings games 
 among others and more recently for the Eragon movie.
  
  For those who have never played a game based off of a movie, the game loosely follows the plot 
 of the film and it is quite common to add extra scenes to the game that were not in the movie. 
 Since Eragon is a pretty lengthy movie, there was enough content to the film to not need extra 
 scenes to the game. The game may have been better if there were some extras added to it.
  
  Some people may not have heard of either the book or film called Eragon, so a brief summary is 
 needed. Eragon is a farm boy who discovers a strange blue rock. The rock is actually a dragon egg. 
 He hatches it and raises a blue dragon. This dragon is very powerful and sought after the forces 
 that be. Eragon befriends and grizzly old warrior and the two of them set out to find Eragons 
 destiny and in the end save the kingdom. It is all pretty standard fantasy fare. I am sorry if 
 I ruined the whole plot, but most of this was in the movie trailers and even on the back cover 
 of the game. Needless to say, there is not a whole lot to the story on this game.
  
  The game play itself has little or no creativity to it. The game is two player game where Eragon 
 is controlled by the gamer and his teammate is controlled by the computer. Both have swords and 
 a bow and arrow. There is a light and a strong sword attack, a ranged attack with the bow and a 
 block button. This is all really standard to any hack and slash style game. The problem is that 
 there is no really good targeting system to the game. Eragon will face other enemies on the screen 
 when there is one directly next to him on the battle field. When using the bow, there is a green 
 diamond on the enemy, but there really is not an easy way to switch to different targets, the computer 
 mainly does it but this can put the player into tight spots at times. Even with all of this said, 
 the game is still pretty easy even on the Hard setting. This is not the only flaw.
  
  The other problem with the game is that it is short! Really short! It can be beaten in five hours 
 and even for an adventure game that is short. There are hidden eggs throughout the game that can 
 add some replay value to the title, but they are not that hard to find the first time through the 
 game. The aspect that makes the eggs somewhat hard to locate is that there is no way to pan the 
 camera, it is 100% controlled by the computer. In some games this is the fastest way for the title 
 to end up in the garbage can, but the camera usually is placed in a respectable location. Having 
 the ability to pan the camera would make locating the game a little easier, but the game is already 
 easy. The only real reply value the game have is that there are achievement points gained for beating 
 a level on Normal level and then again on the Hard level. Word of warning, the achievements 
 do not stack, so if the level is defeated on Hard the Normal achievement is not also gained. 
 There are further flaws with the game is the form of the graphics.
  
  For a next generation title, the graphics are sub par at best. Part of the problem is that this 
 game is a cross platform game. The cross platform is also cross game generation. It was released 
 on the Xbox, PS2, PC and Xbox 360, so the developers were not going to rewrite the game to take 
 advantage of the next generation hardware. This being said still does not make the game any easier 
 to look at. The game characters are stiff and very generic in appearance. The animation has a terrible 
 frame rate and at time reminds the player of a marionette in motion. The full motion video is also 
 has the same problems. There is a unique aspect of the game is the animation has a look like it 
 was lifted from a storybook giving the cut scenes a somewhat unique ambiance.
  
  This game is not worth owning, even if found in the discount bin. The game is barely worth the 
 rent. The real point in playing this title is if the player is a rabid Eragon fan or the player 
 wants some fast and easy achievement points. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mike_515
Rating: 5.1
Date: Feb 12, 2007 12:26 pm PT
Review:  Ever wanted to ride a dragon, tail whip the living crap out of the bay guys, breath fire over a 
 squad of army troops, shot a giant Orc in the face sword fight your way through armies of troops 
 and use magic all in one game?
  Well look no further my friend this is the game that has all the fantasy dragon riding orc shooting 
 action your brain could handle. The story goes that Eragon is a farm boy in a world called Alagaesia, 
 then one day while out hunting for some food he goes to shoot at a dear then a big blue egg lands 
 next to him as if it fell from the sky. At first he thinks its a big shiny stone so he tries selling 
 it on but then a dragon hatches out of it and he is then bonded to this dragon and is to become 
 a legendary dragon rider. Eragon has a great story it is a shame about the graphics and the game 
 play, the characters dont look as real as they do in the movie, or at least half as good as the 
 other characters in other X-Box 360 titles, they could have done a lot better with the characters 
 and the cut scenes are even worse using 2D backgrounds with 3D characters not the best choice, 
 especially when the art work in the background isnt that great. The Game play is repetitive its 
 good to go for about 4 to 5 hours then you start to realise just how repetitive it is stabbing 
 the next wave of enemies then the next wave then the next wave using the same techniques, but after 
 a while they start to introduce the spears that you can chuck with your magic and boulders you 
 can drop on enemies and magic arrows and power ups for your sword, the game gets a little less 
 repetitive. But the sword play gets even more repetitive as the game goes on with bigger and badder 
 enemies requiring more stabs and bow shoot to hit the ground. As you start to play through you 
 notice the short levels and repetitive game play and hope that the dragon levels will start to 
 come soon and when you do eventually get to play them you realise the dragon abilities and levels 
 are limited, having only fire breath tail whip, guard and speed boosts and all the dragon levels 
 are roughly the same but with more enemies to breath fire at, they could have gone places with 
 this and made it a whole lot better. The level design layout, Vivendi PLEASE sack the man/woman 
 that designed them there are way to many ledges they you have to jump to and shimmy across and 
 most of them are blended in with the scenery, while I was playing I accidentally jumped to the 
 right ledge 9 times out of 10, the key to this games is when lost JUMP.
  
  Although there is disappointing graphics game play and level design the multiplayer campaign is 
 lots of fun and makes the actual game a lot easier because you can both slash at the same man and 
 takes away a lot of the repetitiveness. The Good Stuff Cool fire effects Nice magic moves Real 
 Movie voices
  
  The Bad Stuff Extremely repetitive Cut scenes are lacking Badly animated Characters Short levels 
 Bad camera angles 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mixv2
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 3, 2007 6:36 am PT
Review:  eragon is the tale of basically a young farm boy who as hen finds a stone (so he thinks) and trys 
 to sell it and fails but it hatches and becomes a dragon he then meets a ex-dragon rider called 
 brom who drangon was killed by the kings men he gets killed by an evil magician known as durza 
 as he sacrificed himself for eragon so he can join the rebals also known as the varden he sucseeds 
 joining him on his quest are his companion murtagh and safira his dragon there is this big battle 
 at the end aagainst the varden and the kings soilders...
  the game
  the gameplay is very easy and achievments are not hard but it is a good game depending on grafics 
 and it is very addictive. it is not a long game but a very good one...
  
  the story rating...8.9
  
  the movie rating...9.0
  
  the game rating...7.3 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xpumafangx
Rating: 1
Date: Jan 4, 2007 11:19 pm PT
Review:  Look my brother likes the books, he loved the movie. So I bought him the game thinking, Great buy 
 man. I was sooo wrong. after 30 mins of playing this crappy game I wanted to return it. Dont rent, 
 dont buy, do protest. The first double dragon is cooler then this crapfest. I remaber just before 
 taking it out of my 360. I stated Matt all I did that stage was hold left trigger and pressed x. 
 When a target came up. I mean come on game programers. Did you honestly think the fans would enjoy 
 this game? Or did you plan on stealing our money? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MangoMato
Rating: 1.1
Date: Dec 30, 2006 11:16 am PT
Review:  Ok let's start off with the good stuff.. its OK the first 15 minutes..
  
  Graphics: Blocky, crappy, and very surpisingly bad for the XBOX360..
  
  Gameplay: Ok it's ok the 
 first level but when you get to the 3rd lvl just put your controller down and never look at the 
 game again because mostly, you'll just be playing the same boring repetitive level you just did 
 30 minutes ago..
  
  Sound: The BGM is half decent, but soon enough you'll get tired of the shing of your sword and go 
 do something else...
  
  Value: Do Not Buy This Game, Do Not Rent This Game, Do Not Look At This Game When You Go Shopping 
 One Day.
  
  Replay Value: Do Not Replay If You Get It, But In The First Place, Don't Get It!!
  
  I Give This 
 A 1.1 out of 10.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maxinshoes
Rating: 7.3
Date: Dec 30, 2006 9:39 am PT
Review:  ==========
  IMPRESSIVE: Magic is fun to use in moderation // Hunting for hidden eggs ========== keeps you alert.
 
  ============
  NEEDS WORK: Graphics and presentation feel rather lackluster, If you ============ haven't read 
 the book or seen the film then you won't get ============ the story.
  
  Christopher Paolini wrote Eragon at the age of 19 in 2002, and it's taken this long to be adapted 
 into a film. And with every film, there is usually a series of loosely related rip-off's they call 
 videogames (pointing straight towards X-Men 3 and Open Season) , but Eragon has something none of 
 those had, heart.
  
  Eragon is arguably not the best game around, it could be improved, but the finished product isn't 
 as bad as everyone seems to think. Eragon starts of as the film does, a short introduction to the 
 land of Alaga&euml; sia, and then we see young farm boy, Eragon, hunting game in the Spine Mountains. 
 He then comes in possession of a blue orb, which turns out to be a dragon. I'm not going to spoil 
 the story so I'll just give you the jist. Eragon meets Brom, a Dragon Rider whose dragon was killed 
 years ago, he finds that Eragon is to be the next Dragon Rider, he names his dragon Saphira.
  
  Eragon's main weakness is it's presentation, using the same font and style on each menu, and 
 it's graphics may suit a last-gen console, but for the 360, they are kind of mediocre. But this 
 in no way hinders the gameplay. Eragon has quite a few moves at his disposal, with combos that 
 aid the impact. Eragon leaves the idea of boss fights and replaces them with hordes of enemies 
 and Durza is placed in high regard instead of King Galbatorix (who doesn't have a single speaking 
 part in the game) .
  
  If you're looking for a LOTR style adventure to add to your Eragon merchandise, this is worth your 
 money. Let's just hope Eldest enters the box office and the game improves on some of Eragon's follies. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brianack96
Rating: 8.6
Date: Dec 30, 2006 7:44 am PT
Review:  This game is great. Some levels could be a little slow like the second to last one when you have 
 to kill 400 people. The co-op in this game is amazing and you do not want to stop playing it. One 
 of the levels, the one you meat the Kull is insanely fun with you wanting to do the co-op over 
 and over. The graphics on the cut scenes are terrible but they mean to be because it is based on 
 a book. In this game Eragon has terrible kills but the other characters have great ones.
  And the dragon levels when you play as Saphira are great. That is why I gave this game a 8.6. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sbwarrior
Rating: 3.2
Date: Dec 27, 2006 11:50 am PT
Review:  Okay I had a choice between eragon and gears of war so i picked up eragon cuz i luved the movie 
 but the game has such reppettive gameplay and you cannot stray from a path it like as if you are 
 congested into one place The graphics and voice acting is all right but the gameplay and storyline 
 how they tell it is just horrrrrrrid I dunno y but I have returned the game and have gotten gow 
 and that game is off the hook thanx for ur time Okay I had a choice between eragon and gears of 
 war so i picked up eragon cuz i luved the movie but the game has such reppettive gameplay and you 
 cannot stray from a path it like as if you are congested into one place The graphics and voice 
 acting is all right but the gameplay and storyline how they tell it is just horrrrrrrid I dunno 
 y but I have returned the game and have gotten gow and that game is off the hook thanx for ur time 
 ps they wanted a hundred word recvies so i just copied and pasted 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darko_wolf
Rating: 8.2
Date: Dec 24, 2006 5:57 am PT
Review:  Although, the film was not everything that it could have been, and Paolinis series is the most 
 original, it is a story of beauty none the less. However the game, is not so fantastic.
  
  From the offset the games graphics are splendid on the 360, they could have been sharper, but the 
 character movement is well animated as is the combat, which, unless you dont mind switching from 
 ranged to magic to physical combat to keep things spicy, is well done aswell. The games grapples 
 can be fun to execute - take Broms over the shoulder spine breaker, or watching Eragon flip over 
 an enemy and beat them senseless with his sword hilt. So on the whole, the combat is good, and 
 flashy but no where near as innovative of LOTR: ROTK, but its fun. The combat comes into its own 
 when you play with someone, a good pair of well matched gamers, that can keep themselves together 
 to avoid the games slightly annoying camera issues, you can gleefully wade through enemies with 
 style and grace - if you dont venture too far apart and prevent each other attacking.
  
  The level design is nicely done, well reflecting the film and the book. But you sometimes get the 
 feeling that you have been in one location more than once before, this is most prevalent in the 
 Saphira dragon riding sequences, which are fun, and pulse pumping, but there is not enough area 
 to explore - just stay alive until you have wiped out an army, but that said the graphics are top 
 notch and a sensitive player can make great use of Saphiras flight. Again when playing in co-op 
 someone controls Saphira, while someone controls Eragon making the flight sequences reall, really 
 fun, as teamwork is essential at that point.
  
  The games sound is nothing special, but the voiceovers are good, except for the fact Jeremy Irons 
 is not present as the voice of Brom, but Ed Speleers does a good job of his own characters voice. 
 The combat sounds are hefty and you can hear each attack connect, which is always nice in an action 
 game.
  The games music is epic and well orchestrated, but can become reptitive.
  
  If your a big fan of Eragon, you will get plenty of fun from this game, especially if you have 
 someone to enjoy the mindless fun with.
  
  Its not the best put together game, but it trumps Superman, and deserve some time even if just 
 renting it, this game will supply some fun, for some people. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Coussins
Rating: 3.4
Date: Dec 20, 2006 11:49 am PT
Review:  ok game but thats being nice not what the film led up to film is recommened on all levels for all 
 ages can't fault it but the game does not do the reputation justice at all which is a shame because 
 i was expecting something big out of this after the good movie. again the graphics aren't next 
 gen they don't do the 360 the justice it deserves good sound though but gameplay very short easy 
 t grab hold of anf only really mediocre for fans at the most so bit of a let down but i just bought 
 rainbow six vegas so life must go on!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TehPickle
Rating: 1.8
Date: Dec 20, 2006 9:03 am PT
Review:  Eragon is the latest in a long long line of frankly appalling move tie-ins and on this basis alone 
 one could draw a sensible conclusion of how this game plays. The only problem being it's so much 
 worse than you're probably already imagining.
  
  Simply put, this game is abysmal in every way possible and any gamer should consider themselves 
 ashamed for purchasing this product with any amount of money, hard-earned or otherwise (I work 
 in a games store, so that's my excuse) . It's shameful that Microsoft passed this game for certification 
 and disgraceful that the games designers didn't stop to pause and think about just what kind of 
 junk they're trying to pass off as a fully priced product.
  
  The story, which is presented in the most dire, in game pre-rendered, grainy cut scenes is an entirely 
 generic one of a humble boy in a humble village and just so happens to save the world from a generic 
 villain via the use of a talking (entirely mis-cast voice acting) dragon that only he can control.
 
  
  You're thrown into a series of hack-and-slash sequences akin to the earlier, and far superior LOTR 
 games that were released on the previous generation. Unfortunately comparing Eragon to any of the 
 LOTR would be far too generous to the point of total misrepresentation. It lacks any character, 
 charm, programing skills and for the most parts, any gameplay. The game is entirely linear with 
 no choice of character to play, paths to take or attacks to specialise in. The environments in 
 which you'll manoeuvre are almost entirely devoid of anything remotely interactive, save a few 
 smashable crates. There are the occasional times where you may be required to interact with, say, 
 a bell, or a switch to open a door. But that really is about as exciting as it gets. It all just 
 feels totally rushed; a cash-in if you will.
  
  It is worth noting that the game is playable in a co-operative fashion, but again this is yet another 
 botched job on the developers part. The second player can drop-in and out at any time, but even 
 then it still isn't fun as player 2 is nothing more than a gimped version of Eragon; utilising 
 the same basic attacks (performed by pressing A, B, A, B, B, B, B, A, A, A... you get the picture) 
 but lacks any magic abilities which makes them even less interesting than Eragon. He may perhaps 
 have a slightly higher melee strength, unfortunately I wasn't interested enough to discover whether 
 or not this is the case. Added to this, co-op can be made very difficult due to the game not allowing 
 either player to step further than a couple of feet away from eachother at any time. This is compounded 
 by a terribly clumsy combat collision system that quite often leaves you feeling as though you're 
 hitting fresh air and therefore leaves you feeling cheated.
  
  There's also a couple of sections in the game wherein you're placed on the saddle of the dragon 
 and left to an insanely repetetive on-rails shooter section that requires you to fly in huge circles 
 shooting at enemies until an energy bar at the top of the screen is depleted. These sections aren't 
 in the slightest bit fun and instantly forgettable. Graphically, the game is very poor and simply 
 screams PS2 port with no effort put into improving the aethetics in any way. If the game had ANY 
 redeeming features what so ever it wouldn't be a problem, unfortunately this is not the case.
 
  
  The audio is similarly unappealing with the same samples used over and over again. The game does 
 have a cinematic score however, but since it's based on a movie and uses the same music, this isnt 
 saying too much. Similarly, as mentioned earlier; the voice acting is atrocious however some of 
 it offers a certain degree of comedic value. I set my character on fire accidentally and all he 
 had to say about it was a nonchalant I'm on fire. That is the most fun I had through the entirety 
 of the experience.
  
  For any of you out there (like myself) that are obsessed with Achievement Points, Eragon gives 
 them out at the end of every level; 20 on the normal difficulty and 30 on hard. There's also another 
 100 points on offer for 'exploring' (note the inverted commas) each level and collecting a bunch 
 of eggs. Unfortunately the points depending on the difficulty don't stack so it would involve playing 
 the game twice, something I personally shudder to even consider.
  
  The game is stupendously easy even on the hardest difficulty despite the aforementioned collision 
 detection, and despite them forcing you to play the game again and so in short offers next to zero 
 value for money, especially when considered the game is full price and not a bargain-bin title 
 that you would most likely assume it to be.
  
  In short, this game is completely atrocious and should be avoided by anybody, save perhaps a few 
 younger kids that wouldn't know a quality game if it jumped up and slapped them round the face. 
 By all means rent the game for achievement purposes if the only other option left with your money 
 is to put it into an incinerator. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gimlifn
Rating: 1
Date: Dec 20, 2006 12:22 am PT
Review:  To start of the game's storyline sucks and the camera angle being stuck in one spot for the entire 
 game is rediculous. Don't even get me started on the movie. If anyone has read the books they will 
 realize that the movie and the game from the very beginning start screwing the story up to the 
 point where you are guessing what is going to happen next. I have read the book several times and 
 I was wondering what is going to happen next. The game has no value to it whatsoever. The graphics 
 are Xbox, PS2 generation and the gameplay is so basic and not fun that I couldn't even stand playing 
 it past the first section, so be my guest if you can play through this entire crappy game. I can't 
 believe that Christopher Paolini has let the movie studio screw up his story so bad. All I can 
 say is What a joke. Go buy any game besides this one even if you are a fan of the books steer clear 
 of this slow paced disaster. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sonofares
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 18, 2006 6:23 pm PT
Review:  Before I bought this game I heard things like i heard it's very linear... or too linear. Well, that 
 sounded like a good thing to me considering all the sandbox environment games that have jumped 
 on that bandwagon in the past year. I'm on the 3rd or 4th mission on this game and I played through 
 each of those levels on each difficulty and I have enjoyed this game. It reminds me of the Lord 
 of the Rings games. It is a linear storyline in that you must go one direction and complete certain 
 tasks to make the game advance. It's been awhile since I've played that kind of game (like King 
 Kong) . I actually dig those games. The combat system to me is fun with plenty of moves and attacks 
 you also have a Bow and Magic for ranged attacks. I haven't even met my dragon yet..... but so far 
 I really am enjoying this game and am looking forward to getting more into it. I will update this 
 review hopefully once I've completed the game but so far I'm having a blast. I love the graphics 
 and the controls. Fun stuff! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bageldude
Rating: 5.8
Date: Dec 16, 2006 4:51 pm PT
Review:  Well, considering it is a movie game, it was alright, in my opinion at least as good as the Lord 
 of the Rings games. But I have to agree on one thing that everyone is saying, the camera views 
 are absolutely horrific and just plain frustrating. The sound was pretty good I think, aside form 
 the crummy voice acting. X-Box 360 (the console I played it on) has amazing graphics capabilities, 
 and I was disappointed with what Eragon had to offer in that category. So although the game isn't 
 a best-seller, it is an okay game.
  
  Is it worth the sixty dollars that it's currently retailed at? Well, I'd have to say no, wait until 
 it goes on sale or is just marked down a little bit. But please, all of you medieval game fans 
 out there, don't let my opinion stop you from taking a ride on the wild side, maybe the very, very 
 wild side. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DeanCorleone
Rating: 2.1
Date: Dec 15, 2006 4:46 pm PT
Review:  Sad let down, boring, annoying views half the time. Been done before... another MOVIE game. Very 
 boring battle system, I hate to leave bad feed back like this but don't waste your time. Forced 
 storyline, not a very next-gen console thing to do. Ugly cut scenes they tried to change it up 
 but no good. Don't buy, don't rent, watch the trailers and try to understand. Seems thrown together. 
 Target system is even annoying. Making your way through some of the levels is annoying, enemies 
 respawn in some locations forever, unrealistic (not that this game should be, but after a year 
 or so they shouldn't be coming...) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tagnetti
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 13, 2006 1:21 pm PT
Review:  I did this reveiw solely based on the poor review it got. My family and I loved this game. The 
 graphics are very nice overall and I loved how we could just hack and slash our way thru the levels. 
 The story is told well enough that I was intrigued enough to get the book and am looking forward 
 to the movie.
  
  For my self it fit a needed hole of a game I could play with my younger kids and just have pure 
 fun with. I thought the controls were intuitive and my 5 year old has no problem even pulling off 
 the various magic effects.
  
  If there is a down side, it's that you do sometimes lose your character in whats going on due to 
 the camera angle and at times can find it difficult to figure out where to go next.
  
  Overall I really enjoy the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PoolShark
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 9, 2006 4:36 pm PT
Review:  *******GAME (and possible movie) SPOILER WARNING********
  If you don't want to see any spoilers, just recommend this review now :D
  
  The first thing 
 you'll notice is the graphics. All in all they're so-so, but for an HD system that's been out almost 
 a year now, they definitely need an improvement. After the shock of the graphics has faded, you'll 
 notice that you have no control over the camera. This, however, is usually not a problem since 
 the camera is centered upon the character and the targeting reticle can be seen off-screen. As 
 for the fighting, if you've played any of the Lord of the Rings games by Vivendi, it's the same 
 exact thing mostly. The worst part is that, unlike the LOTR games, you don't pick up any new moves 
 throughout the game. The levels on dragon-back do have fun moments and help to break up the monotony 
 of the on-foot levels, but the levels themselves are only infinite repetitions of flying through 
 the same area, shooting the same guys, and breathing fire on the same locations. If you've never 
 read the book, then chances are you're going to be lost because the story sequences are thin most 
 of the game, and at times nonexistent. If you have read the book you will still be confused at 
 points, like me, and probably extremely disappointed at the changes that have been made, such as 
 Saphira's ability to breathe fire, the fact that Arya already knows Eragon before they meet, or 
 the defeat of the ra'zac with brom still intact. The story also seems to place Durza in extremely 
 high regard, with little mention of the King. This game is extremely easy as well, I played on 
 hard my first try through and only died once before the final boss, which only took two tries. 
 There are certain parts of the game in which stealth is recommended as to avoid hard fights, like 
 20 on 2, but these battles are still easy enough to get through on hard. Another thing that I found 
 annoying with the XBOX360 version is that you can beat the entire game on hard (the hardest difficulty) 
 but then still have to go back and beat it on normal for half of the achievements. The secret eggs 
 aren't hidden very well on most levels, and on flying levels if you miss them once you have to 
 go all the way around again before you can grab them. The voice acting is alright, done by the 
 actual actors of the movie from what I know. If you can look past the fact that this game has poor 
 graphics and is the same thing the company released years ago, it might be worth a rent. If you 
 can't look past that then this will just have to serve as a quick 1000 achievement points or a 
 sneak-peek into the movie; although I hope to god that this isn't anything like the movie and that, 
 if Eldest gets a game too, it's nothing like this one. For me, it was just a quick dose of distorted 
 nostalgia. Enjoy! (or try not to cry, laugh, or toss your controller at the screen in pure agony 
 of the $60.00 (or $8 for the rent.) ) Poolshark, out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Datasiphon
Rating: 5.3
Date: Dec 6, 2006 5:48 pm PT
Review:  It seems like the Eragon property deserves a better game than what Vivendi delivered. There are 
 a couple of things that the developer could have changed to make this game better. The main flaw 
 that stands out the most is the fixed camera. Not having control of the camera is pretty annoying 
 but certain situations will come up where you have to navigate your character through some tricky 
 situations. During some of these situations the camera perspective will flip causing you to fall 
 off of the beam you were trying to walk across. Also, the graphics are sub-par for a 360 title. 
 That being said, the in-game visuals are not as bad as the cut scenes. The cut scenes are embarrassingly 
 bad!
  
  It seems the like the developers tried to mix up the game play but it is still pretty mundane. 
 The main reason I am playing through this game is for the Achievements. The achievements are fairly 
 easy but somewhat mind-numbing to do in one sitting. I recommend that you rent this one and only 
 if you are looking to boost your achievement score. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: da_odd
Rating: 2.6
Date: Dec 3, 2006 5:02 pm PT
Review:  Ever since reading Eragon, i dreamed that a movie and game were going to made of it. (hey, if lame-ass 
 Harry potter got them, why shoulden't Eragon?) Well, here comes Eragon the game. My dream came 
 true, but it was made out of pure, solid awfulness. It is the worst game thus far to be released 
 on the 360. Bland textures, horribley simple gameplay, and worst of all, bad story. The gameplay 
 is almost pure button-mashing. Eragon does have some fancy combos, but the simple light and heavy 
 attacks can get you through the majority of the game. The game does feature some block and parry 
 moves, but the games AI is rarely challenging enough to use them. There are very few sequences 
 in where you get to ride your dragon, Saphira, into combat. Strangely, this a very good thing. 
 This is one of the lowest points of the game, thanks mostly to the awful camera. Saphira will take 
 damage if she runs into walls and other obsicals, but the camera actually prevents you from avoiding 
 them. It tries to shift to get a better veiw of the action, which more often than not, puts oncoming 
 obsticals off-screen. What really makes the game horrible is the way it tries to tell the story.
 
  Stupid, uninspired cutscenes barley give you enough info to tell you who the charicters are. All 
 the game really tess you is to kill your enemy by any means nessisary. (which isn't fun in the 
 first place) Overall, a very poorley made game that wouldent be out of place as a free toy in a 
 cerial box. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jer_OC
Rating: 1.6
Date: Dec 2, 2006 4:59 am PT
Review:  Not only is this game terrible, it is so shallow and lacking any kind of real gameplay its almost 
 a joke. Did the publishers even test this game? Did the company even review what kind of low level, 
 lackluster piece of trash this game is? I even had a friend ask me if it was worth buying! I put 
 him on the right track, IF anything RENT it, grab some achievements if it doesnt bore you to death 
 first. There is no character building, there is no depth at all, each level is just the same button 
 mashing inturrupted by the odd 'magic' pull/push on a log or contraption. There are no skills, 
 no rewards, no real objectives to any level except, slash your way to the next level. Ohh there 
 is hidden egg's (1 per level) to try and find.. wow .. how awesome is that, and they dont even 
 do anything for you, or your character.. the only thing they do, do is unlock a secret level at 
 the end of the game (at thats if you collec\t them all) and the worst part.. the level it opens 
 up, doesnt give you anything .. the level itself is just an endless wave of enemies!!
  
  Such a bad game, its even hard to review it.
  IF you want to spend/waste some money &gt;&gt; 
 RENT it, grab some Achievements and return it to the store and just move on with your life, this 
 game reeks!~
  
  Have a good day ;) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: paullywog
Rating: 2.7
Date: Dec 1, 2006 9:49 pm PT
Review:  I rented this game with my friend for a few quick achievements, and got nothing. I couldn't bear 
 to play it for more than 10 minutes. At first, i thought it could turn out to be a kind of Lord 
 of the Rings type game, but it was far from it.
  
  Eragon tries to be like the Lord of the Rings but falls short in every way. The graphics are probably 
 worse than LOTR and it's like 2 years older than it. Such horrors are inexcusable in this day and 
 age. It looks like a 2 year old did the concept art.
  
  Next, Eragon doesn't play well. You will find yourself struggling with a camera that you can't 
 even control, while tapping A to attack with the same old move over and over. the game tries to 
 be bad ass, if you will, but the methods include little more than grabbing a guy and hitting him 
 in the chest, and if you watch, the animations are downright sloppy.
  
  There is co-op function, but with a tiny bit of effort the developers weren't willing to put forth, 
 online could have easily been incorporated. Instead, it's a cheap port that looks and plays like 
 a PS2 game and you would be best off to act like Eragon doesn't exist because that's probably the 
 way it should be. I should also note that it would be a crime for stores to sell this. It's better 
 used as a sanitary item i. e. toilet paper, but it can't even do that because disks are sharp on 
 the edges so basically Eragon is a burden to us all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Piesogood
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 26, 2006 12:52 pm PT
Review:  The game has nothing to do with the book- getting on to the game. The beginning is terrible, you 
 hardly notice the beautiful graphics, because they throw you into a crowd of enemies almost immediately. 
 You dont know the controls and nobody told you that it was two-player. After about 5 stages though, 
 the game becomes..... rather good. It's not until you learn how to play that this game shows its 
 inner beauty. Not everyone could like this game of course, because of it camera controls. The camera 
 controls aren't that bad though. You dont have to mess around with them while fighting a boss, 
 or position them just right to capture three secconds of fighting. Furthermore, there are no glitches 
 in this game because there are no camera controls. Depth is not an issue in Eragon. This game is 
 dark. It's not a happy game , or a light-hearted one. Everything broods of death, despair, and 
 torture. Which isn't really that bad. The game isnt great..... ist's certainly not perfect, but 
 its not bad. Its just.... good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: garo420
Rating: 3.4
Date: Nov 23, 2006 7:09 am PT
Review:  This game had tremendous potential, but the lame camera controls make it difficult to play a game 
 that already has a weak story. The combat controls are similar to other fighting games, but even 
 that gets boring with enemies that are too easy to defeat. It reminds me a little of the Devil 
 May Cry franchise, alot of button mashing and jumping to defeat enemies. There is only one problem 
 with that, it's been done before and several times; where is the innovation?
  
  The graphis aren't bad for a modern game, but they aren't good enough to make up for the other 
 flaws. This game is a total disappointment. Save your money for games with modern controls, a real 
 story, and are worth the $60! 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
