-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Eternal Sonata
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/xbox360/rpg/trustybellchopinnoyume/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Magnificent visual design makes even the most mundane places look beautiful.
 Stunning musical score.
 Inventive battle system is both tactical and packed with exciting action.
 A great cast of warm, charming characters will draw you into the story.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Story is completely linear.
 Photography element makes money too easy to earn.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Sep 17, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.5
Critic Score: 7.9, 60 Review (s)
User Score: 8.4, 2,437 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Namco Bandai Games America
Developer: Tri-Crescendo
Genre: Role-Playing
Date: Sep 17, 2007
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Eternal Sonata's superb art direction will dazzle you, but a dreamy story and exciting battles make 
 it sing. 

  The life and death of Polish composer Frederic Chopin doesn't sound like a very fascinating theme 
 for a role-playing game. Who'd have thought, then, that such a game would set the standard for 
 Japanese RPGs on the Xbox 360? Eternal Sonata is a pleasant surprise, full of joy, old-fashioned 
 romance, and set in a gorgeous, fully realized fantasy world. It's also a wonder that the soft, 
 chewy center of the story is complemented by an action-packed battle system that continually keeps 
 you on your toes. It has some issues, but the game will make you feel consistently warm and fuzzy, 
 thanks to its big heart and total commitment to its subject matter.  

           Even with nightmarish baddies like this guy, this is one dream you won't want to wake 
 from.      

  If that makes Eternal Sonata sound sickeningly sweet, rest assured that it also possesses a good 
 deal of maturity. We watch Chopin sleeping on his deathbed, as the clock slowly counts down to 
 his last moment on earth. But the real story is in his mind, where he joins an alternate reality 
 already in progress and multiple stories that eventually converge. His first friend is Polka, a 
 loveable girl with awesome pigtails that can wield magic, but like other magic users in this world, 
 she is destined to die young. Along the way, they are joined by other adventurers, such as street 
 urchins Alegretto and Beat. They are also accompanied by goat herder Viola and the members of the 
 rebel group Andantino, amongst others. Together, they unite against the rule of the evil Count 
 Waltz, who is turning the populace of Forte into mindless slaves, thanks to an untaxed, addictive 
 mineral powder.  

  It's not the grandest, most epic tale ever told in an RPG, but it's a highly personal one. Chopin 
 must discover what he is searching for in this moving, thoughtful journey that we take with him. 
 His travel companions are charming, multifaceted characters who develop strong bonds, including 
 Alegretto's touching affection for ever-sweet Polka. You will care for these characters, and if 
 their initial quest doesn't seem all that breathtaking, the passion with which they undertake it 
 will win you over. The story also touches on topics that tie lessons of the past to current events. 
 Blind devotion to the government, the separation of fact from fiction, social persecution, and 
 other themes are all obviously meant to parallel our own modern political climate. The only problem 
 with the narrative is the pace, which is broken up by narrated segments about Chopin's life and 
 the politics of his own time. These interruptions feature photo stills of such cities as Paris 
 and Warsaw, accompanied by Chopin's famous piano works. But the history lessons, as well intentioned 
 as they are, just don't fit because they force us back into a reality the game does such a good 
 job of letting us escape.  

  Developer Tri-Crescendo has created a beautiful world here. It's easy to get swept up in the French 
 Impressionist color palate and gorgeous lighting, but incredible artistry gushes from every aspect 
 of the visual design. The clothing of your party members is richly drawn, with intricate stitching 
 and other fine details. The interiors of cottages are filled with meticulously designed dcor, 
 from textured linens to finely crafted plates hanging on the walls. Environments are spectacular, 
 even such traditionally clich locations as swamps or forests, which use shadows and mild light 
 bloom to create scenes you would expect to see in a Monet painting. But all of this 2D art does 
 come at the expense of 3D exploration. You can't freely explore every nook and cranny, nor can 
 you rotate the camera. So there are times you wish you could head off into the rolling hills to 
 check out every valley and crevasse but are fixed to your narrow pathway. You may also occasionally 
 cringe at the color saturation, which is sometimes a little too  Candy Land  for its own good. 
 But make no mistake: Eternal Sonata is a visual triumph and a beautiful artistic achievement.  
 

           Even the characters can't stop ogling the gorgeous visuals.      

  As you might imagine, music plays an important role in the game's production values as well, though 
 Chopin's music is usually limited to the edutainment portions previously mentioned. But that's 
 fine because Motoi Sakuraba's score is as exquisite as the visuals, using Chopin's romanticism 
 as a starting point for a subtle but sweeping musical journey. The voice acting doesn't reach for 
 the stars, but it is solid enough. Chopin and Salsa in particular come to life vividly, thanks 
 to strong acting, though other voices get too syrupy after a while. Sadly, there are some scenes 
 of extended dialogue that, for whatever reason, feature no music and minimal ambient noise. In 
 a musical score, rests are as important as notes, but these extended silences are jarring.  

  Once you get beyond the glittering production, how does it actually play? Thankfully, the gameplay 
 is satisfying and moves at a slick tempo. There are no random encounters, so you can see every 
 monster. Oftentimes, you can simply go around them, though you will be forced into some battles 
 (and some terrific, challenging boss fights too) . Combat isn't a typical series of turns with infinite 
 time in between, though: Eternal Sonata's system is an inventive mix of turn-based and real-time 
 warfare that gets trickier as the game progresses.     

  First up is your action bar. Each character has a limited amount of time to complete his or her 
 turn before it ends. But within that turn, you can move freely about the battlefield. Each action, 
 whether it is an attack, a spell, or a simple movement depletes the bar even more. As your party 
 level increases, the planning time you have decreases, special attacks deplete more of your meter, 
 and other changes are made until battles are frenetic, tactical scherzos.  

           The battle system seems simple at first, but it gets more complex and thrilling as your 
 party levels up.      

  Then you have a whole other can of worms: light and dark. If you're standing in the light, you 
 have a different set of skills available to you than if you are standing in shadows. For example, 
 archer Viola can execute a party heal when she is standing in the light but a devastating attack 
 when in the shadows. Furthermore, these abilities may change depending on how close you are to 
 your enemy. And if that wasn't enough, your enemies can take advantage of the light and dark as 
 well, going so far as to shape-shift when moving from the shadows into the light. Eventually, this 
 system gets really complex because enemies may cast spells on you that envelop you in darkness, 
 or you might use items that surround you in a glow of light. And some weapons are more effective 
 in the shadows than in the sun.  

  Then there is real-time blocking, which is where a well-timed button press can block an enemy attacking 
 from the front or even execute a counter attack. In the later portions of the game, successful 
 blocking can make the difference between success and failure. But it's not easy to block, so don't 
 expect to mash your B button when you're on the defensive. You have a tiny smidgen of time, so 
 you are constantly on your toes, even when it isn't your turn. All of these dynamics result in 
 a constant tactical repositioning of each character depending on where you stand, where your enemy 
 stands, whether you're attacking it from the front or rear, and other factors. It's literally the 
 best of both worlds, combining the strategy of turn-based battles with the frantic immediacy of 
 real-time combat.  

  Most of the time, the system is terrific, and the challenge ramps up considerably as the game progresses. 
 But there are some small issues with it. Creatures cast their own shadows, so if you are in one 
 of them, you obviously only have access to your shadow skills. This is usually a great strategic 
 element, but because monster animations cause the shadow to also move, you could be caught on the 
 fringe of a swaying foe, watching your available actions jitter back and forth. You could end up 
 using a different skill than you intended or wasting some of your precious action bar on moving 
 to another location, thereby getting less time to attack the enemy. It's also worth noting that 
 the enemy artificial intelligence is inconsistent. On the one hand, monsters are quick to figure 
 out which party member is casting the healing spells and will focus their attacks there. On the 
 other hand, they don't quite know how to handle objects on the battlefield, sometimes charging 
 right into a boulder and doing the hokey pokey before turning themselves around.  

           The towns and characters have musical names. Oh -- and did we mention how pretty this game 
 is?      

  Other frustrations are minor, but they still come up from time to time. Your journey is highly 
 linear, so don't expect to spend any time doing side quests or gallivanting about the countryside 
 to check out the sights. Another odd element is Beat's photography skills, which allow you to take 
 pictures during battle and sell them for a tidy profit. The problem with it isn't the concept -- because 
 it's a great way to allow the party to earn some money -- but that you can make a serious load of 
 gold this way. So if you take the initially powerful Viola and Allegretto into battle with him, 
 they can mop up enemies while Beat rakes in the photos. It won't take long to accumulate more funds 
 than you know what to do with, and it eases the challenge considerably for the first half of the 
 game because you can load up on floral powder or healing cookies. And interestingly, for a game 
 featuring a famous composer, music isn't integrated into the gameplay itself, aside from a minigame 
 that lets you play bits of music with various friendly townsfolk. It's nice that you can listen 
 to music clips that you unlock, as well as the fact that characters and towns are all named after 
 musical terms. But it's always subtext and doesn't often come to the forefront.  

  You might find Eternal Sonata to be relatively short for your tastes if you are a fan of Japanese 
 RPGs. It clocks in at around 30 hours in a leisurely play-through, but it's worth noting that there 
 is little filler in the gameplay or story. The game gets to the point with a smart, action-packed 
 battle system and a dazzling world that will take your breath away. Yet while it may be the beauty 
 that draws you in, it will be the warmth at Eternal Sonata's heart and soul that will prevent you 
 from ever wanting to leave.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (173 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: mariofan22
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 16, 2009 11:01 pm PT
Review:  Frederic Chopin's work is regarded as some of the hardest to play for the piano. They require precise 
 movements, quick speed, and a dazzling skill -- but if the three can come together, a masterful 
 sound is created at the hands of the pianist.
  
  Eternal Sonata, a Japanese RPG that is the current high-point of its genre on the Xbox 360, is 
 a masterful work, that manages to craft endearing characters and a masterful story in the most 
 unlikely of scenarios. The story sounds ridiculous out of context: Frederic Chopin is on his deathbed, 
 and the game is a dream he has in his final three hours of life. But the environment and characters 
 are so vivid, that the dreamworld comes to life in a way that no one could ever expect.
  
  The detail put into this game is simply stunning. The visuals are some of the best seen on the 
 Xbox 360: not in the traditional sense, but in an artistically beautiful one. Eternal Sonata manages 
 to avoid the bloom and filters most game designers toss around their creations nowadays to create 
 a gorgeous environment you'd find in a bright painting. One cannot say enough about the visual 
 style: this game is almost worth buying just on the graphics alone.
  
  The visuals combined with the sound make for a truly awe-inspiring experience. The score, composed 
 by Motoi Sakuraba, has some of the best music I've ever heard in a video game. This isn't your 
 "Halo 3" rock-style music -- Sakuraba used Chopin's music as inspiration for a sweeping sound that 
 simply must be experienced. The last song after the credits is so beautiful, that I wish the soundtrack 
 were released to the states so I could buy it up. The score fits into where it's needed in the 
 plot as well, beyond its beauty. It fits the moods and environments to a key, and silence is utilized 
 just as much as the gorgeous sounds from Sakuraba's compositions.
  
  The plot focuses on multiple threads, but many of these contain plot spoilers: instead, I'll focus 
 on Chopin's aspect of the plot, something that has for the most part been thrown around in reviews. 
 Chopin has dreamed up this dream world, and if one pays attention, it's easy to see how he did 
 so. Town names include "Forte" (the loud dynamic sound in music) and "Baroque" (referring to the 
 Baroque musical period) . Characters include "Polka" (a dance) and "Allegretto" (a moderately fast 
 tempo in music) . On a deeper level, the game explains events in Chopin's real life, and the game 
 makes small, almost un-noticeable connections between the two. But if one looks closely at the 
 characters and the plot, the game rewards the player by allowing them to see the true genius nature 
 of the game, and it is a privilege to watch unfold.
  
  The combat in the game, common like it is in many RPGs, is masterfully implemented. It starts the 
 player off very easy, allowing them time to get used to the basics, and then slowly makes the combat 
 faster and harder, making the game a great transition for those used for turn-based RPGs looking 
 for a change to action ones.
  
  Praise aside, the game does have its faults. The game only reaches a maximum of thirty hours, though 
 it took me barely over twenty. This is considered short for an RPG, but I enjoyed a linear path 
 to take for once. I know that may sound sacrilege, but the environments and the sound is just so 
 beautiful, one hardly notices the linearity of the gameplay until the end. What I did notice, was 
 that many times, despite the masterful story, I felt like themes would be shoved down my throat 
 while I was unwilling. The themes of war and the "fight for the little guy" are so stressed, that 
 by the time the game has the audacity to lecture you during the credits, you already don't care 
 -- you just want to know what happened to your characters.
  
  This game was truly a pleasure to play, and I can't recommend it highly enough. It isn't perfect, 
 but if all you have is a 360, I can say that this is a must. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: UnsaidWarning
Rating: 6.5
Date: Apr 16, 2009 10:11 pm PT
Review:  I picked up Eternal Sonata after playing the 360 demo, because it seemed like a pretty good old 
 fashioned rpg, which, if you've read my Lost Odyssey review, is something rare to find these days. 
 Now I didn't hate Eternal Sonata, but it wasn't a blast to play, and at points I was plainly annoyed 
 by it, and as a longtime rpg gamer, I have a LOT of patience, so surprised me. Now to get the full 
 back story on the game, read gamespots review or a synopsis of the game, because I'm not going 
 to go into detail. Here is what I believe to be a very honest and fair review of the game.
  
  Story- I found the Chopin side of the story very interesting, although the historical parts 
 seemed almost too out of place, and almost pointless, because after about an hour Chopin's story 
 is almost forgotten. In fact I found myself wondering why Frederick hardly spoke in the second 
 half of the game, when this was supposed to be mainly about him, or at least thats how it was promoted. 
 More on this in the characters section. The game is fueled by lengthy cutscenes, which is fine 
 to me, but when they move at the pace of a snail in a bucket its hard to be patient. For instance, 
 without giving anything away, a main characters death is early on in the game. Of course we never 
 experience any depth to the character and there is no development, so before it even happens most 
 of us are thinking "Who really cares? I don't know this persons story." Then comes the scene, which 
 is probably going to go down in rpg fan history. Over 10 minutes we are treated to a monologue 
 spoken as the character dies, doing flashbacks to scenes we JUST witnessed a few minutes ago. Anyone 
 witnessing it while playing is bound to roll their eyes more than once. The awful english VA doesn't 
 help this at all. Another thing, the game has some mature storylines and plenty of deaths, but 
 we never SEE any of them, and when we do there is never any gore. Of course that wouldn't fit the 
 art style, but with such material that is presented quite dark at points, having some of the bad 
 guys say a few last words wouldn't hurt. For instance, the entire game almost your trying to stop 
 the vil count Waltz, in a pretty climacted battle, you manage to defeat him. Thats it. No death 
 scene, just a battle. Its quite dissapointing at points.
  
  Characters- Like I said earlier, some are hardly developed, and even with the lengthy cutscenes 
 we don't see very much of any interaction between the cast. Most of the cutscenes are elongated 
 just by characters annoyingly repeating themselves. "Can we cross that bridge?" "I think we should 
 probably cross that bridge." Its all over dramatic, and with the frequent pauses and odd choice 
 of dialogues, it can become grueling to watch some of them. Some characters, like Falsetto, and 
 maybe Jazz, actually fill the "Cool" characters category, and pull it off okay, but everyone else 
 either falls into the whiny sidekick role, the typical "we can do it" hero, the weak female lead, 
 ect. ect. Salsa adds some flavor that can be amusing, but its overshadowed by the lack of depth.
 
  
  Sound- Gorgeous music, although I was expecting a little more Chopin than we got. Although I have 
 to say most of the music is pretty forgettable, but still fits the game while your playing it.
 
  
  Graphics- How did Eternal Sonata score higher than Lost Odyssey? Probably because of its graphics 
 and frame rate, which rule most of todays review forms. The game is gorgeous, and the environments 
 spring to life with awesome glows and color. The characters all look soft and are fun to look at, 
 unfortunately they remain stiff and blocky for the most part.
  
  Battle System- Its fun. Another reason why it scored higher. Most games with "Newer" styles and 
 systems usually score higher, even if games before it such as the Star Ocean series, do it better. 
 All the fights in the game are fun and racking up echoes is pretty catchy, especially seeing all 
 the damage you can end up doing. The special attacks also look amazing, but are kind of overpowered 
 by repeated attack poses and extremely lame dialogue when they use a special attack. Now I love 
 when characters say attack names, its fun and anime like, a throwback to sailormoon if you will, 
 but when they spout off things that make them seem like a crazy person during the fight? "If you 
 strike a stone rocks will shatter, if you strike a person their soul will shatter. Death to them 
 both!" or something of that sort. Makes no sense... sure it sounds cool sometimes, maybe the first 
 time, but then you go "Huh?". The game becomes increasingly easy as it progresses too, so don't 
 expect a challenge.
  
  Overall Eternal Sonata is fun to look at, and the fights are fun if not a little repetitious and 
 tiring, but the story goes nowhere after the first hour, and the cutscenes are bland and feel unconnected. 
 Some extras flavor it up but by then I just wanted to move on with the game and finish it. So I'd 
 say if your on the fence, rent it. Its not a very long game and not exactly worth the cash. Its 
 too bad because it had a great idea, but just didn't go very far with it.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Garrison_Ford
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 18, 2009 3:27 pm PT
Review:  *** ETERNAL SONATA ***
  
  THE GOOD
  -Beautiful graphics
  -Excellent music
  -Great insight into Chopin's real life
  -Great cast of characters
  -Exciting battle system
 
  -Good voice acting
  
  THE BAD
  -Completely linear story
  -Combat has too much button mashing involved
  
  OVERVIEW
  Eternal Sonata is a game that questions 
 reality with the fantasy (dream world) . The game takes place in a world that was dreamt up by famous 
 piano composer Frederic Chopin while he lies unresponsive on his death bed. In the beginning, Chopin 
 ensures himself that he is in his own dream but later on questions this notion stating that maybe 
 the life that he knew in Europe, as a great composer, was actually a dream. This struggle that 
 Chopin has takes a backseat to more pressing issues in his fantasy world regarding the people he 
 meets. You see in this fairy-tale world people with magical powers also carry an incurable disease 
 like the game's leading heroine named Polka. Polka (age: 14) has a similar personality to Chopin's 
 younger sister. Polka is a sweet young girl that tries to sell Floral Powder to the people of Ritardando 
 but nobody buys her medicine because a cheaper man-made medicine called Mineral Powder is available.
 
  
  Frederic finally meets up with Polka and learns about Floral and Mineral Powder and decides to 
 help her in talking to Count Waltz, the regional monarch, about lowering the taxes on Floral Powder 
 so that she can run her business. As the two travel to Forte Castle, to persuade Count Waltz, they 
 meet up with a few other characters. It just so happens that two poor kids from Ritardando named 
 Allegretto and Beat are also on their way to talk about taxes being too high with Count Waltz. 
 Allegretto has a good heart and proves to be a capable leader because Beat constantly looks to 
 him for guidance.
  
  As you progress through the game you'll find out that Count Waltz has his own agenda for controlling 
 Frederic's dream world and that there is a revolution in the midst. The story in Eternal Sonata 
 may not be as good as other RPGs but it's still a worthwhile tale. However, the fact that the story 
 is completely linear is a setback. Along with the story, you'll have a chance to learn more about 
 Chopin's real life as a famed pianist and composer. The mini breaks between chapters prove to be 
 interesting and educational. Pretty much all the characters are likeable and even though the monologs 
 can be excessive at times, you'll feel like you really know each of them by the end.
  
  GAMEPLAY
  The battle system is one of the better features in Eternal Sonata. Much like some of 
 the newer JRPGs, like Blue Dragon, you're able to avoid battles by evading enemies on the field. 
 If you want to take on an enemy all you have to do it get up close to it and the game will trigger 
 a fight. Depending on where you encounter the enemy is important. For example, if you attack from 
 behind you'll have the element of surprise which grants you more turns at the start of the round. 
 But be careful because the same thing can happen to you.
  
  When a battle is triggered a new screen will appear displaying the enemy on one side and your three 
 heroes on the opposite side. The fighting is turned based but is nothing like a normal turn based 
 JRPG. Here you actually get to move your character on the screen and attack which ever enemy you 
 want within the time allotted. The action gauge on the left hand side of the screen displays your 
 characters' action time and tactical time. At the beginning of your turn the tactical time will 
 start to decrease. Basically you can use this time to think about your next move. The action gauge 
 will start to decrease when one of two things happen: the tactical time expires or you decide to 
 act with that character. When the action gauge starts to count down you'll be able to move, attack 
 and perform other actions until time runs out. There are two attacks for each character in Eternal 
 Sonata; basic and special. The basic attack is done with the A button and while doing regular damage, 
 based on the strength of the character, you'll chain together echoes. The more echoes chained together 
 the more powerful your special attacks will become. When you are ready to unleash a powerful special 
 attack all you have to do is press the Y button. 
  
  Now this may seem basic but there are some twists thrown in to keep the combat from getting dull. 
 As you'll notice, the battle field is filled with light and dark areas. This will determine if 
 your hero is going to perform a light or dark special attack. Also, as you progress through the 
 game, your party will level up which will alter things like decrease action time, increase movement 
 speed, and even change the buttons around. This gives the game a nice challenge and you'll enjoy 
 the fast paced excitement, however, there is one setback. The fighting requires a little too much 
 button mashing.
  
  The leveling system is pretty much like your basic RPG. Your characters gain experience, level 
 up and increase in a few attributes like strength and hit points. Now one thing I will say that 
 Eternal Sonata does better than most RPGs is that you'll level up rather quickly. This reduces 
 the grueling level grinding process that most RPG fans dread.
  
  Eternal Sonata really excels with its dynamic battle system but there are other aspects of the 
 game that are lacking due to the linear story. Exploration is one of the biggest things missing 
 in this game. There is one extra optional dungeon to crawl through but other then that you'll see 
 everything there is to see by playing through the story. Aside from that, Eternal Sonata offers 
 a few extra mini games to keep you occupied. One in particular is the score piece game. Here, you'll 
 have to find hidden pieces of music scatter all throughout Frederick's dream world. The next part 
 of the task is to find other NPCs that want to perform a musical session with you. If both harmonies 
 line up you'll be rewarded. This mini game can be fun if you are musically talented but for the 
 rest of us, it ends up being a dreadful game of trail and error.
  
  GRAPHICS
  The visuals are fantastic. Frederic's dream is filled with beautiful shapes and colors. The character 
 detail is also very good and the entire game looks like a well crafted anime movie.
  
  SOUND
  The music is probably the best part in Eternal Sonata. I mean it should be if your main 
 character is the famous Frederic Chopin, right? Not only will you have the chance to listen to 
 some of Chopin's greatest works but the in-game music is top notch too. The full sympathy orchestra 
 was utilized to the fullest and compliments the gameplay. For example, when you're en route between 
 towns the melodies of the fanfares make it feel adventurous and when a compassionate sound is needed, 
 the ballads will sooth the soul. The voice work fits each character nicely too. The kids sound 
 like kids and adults sound like adults. This may seem like a "no brainer" but you'd be surprised 
 on how some RPGs fail at this so don't worry because Eternal Sonata won't disappoint you here.
 
  
  CONCLUSION
  Eternal Sonata is definitely one of the better RPGs in this generation. The rather weak story is 
 easy to look past with the exciting battle system. I would recommend this game to anyone and those 
 who are new to RPGs because the amount of action involved is enjoyable. Plus the historic value 
 involving Chopin's life, which Eternal Sonata presents, is fantastic. Now, it's up to you to travel 
 through Chopin's fantasy world and determine whether or not his dream is reality. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kiro1201
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 13, 2009 7:10 pm PT
Review:  Eternal Sonata is a game that many simply judge by its girlie, flowery cover. I thought the exact 
 same thing when I first saw it in stores. Why I bought the game I don't know but I am so glad I 
 did. It turned out to be one of the best RPG games that I have ever played. 
  
  It is centered on the life/death of Polish pianist and composer Fredric Chopin as he drifts in 
 and out of a dream world that is becoming more realistic to him by the second. Tri-Crescendo brought 
 together amazing characters with an awesome and beautiful fantasy world into make a masterpiece 
 for the ages. 
  
  Gameplay: Eternal Sonata is like many other RPGs in the sense of gameplay. You walk around, talk 
 to people to get information, and run into monsters constantly on your quest to Forte Castle. It 
 is pretty much the basic material for any RPG. Sometimes you are left walking around wondering 
 where to go and other times you know where to go but can't figure out how to get there. This can 
 all be very frustrating especially when you are trying to find items called "score pieces". These 
 are pieces of music that you play with certain people throughout the game to get secret items and 
 various other things. They are spread throughout the settings but finding them isn't the hard thing, 
 matching them up with the right people is. I just quit trying after the first couple of pieces 
 didn't work but some people may find it enjoyable. 
  
  The highlight of the gameplay is the unique battle system. It is turn-based and runs off "tactical 
 time". This is time set aside for the player to think out and plan moves. It can make or break 
 a battle for you. Characters have special attacks that depend upon the amount of lighting in the 
 battle area. Enemies are also triggered by the same effect. They shift and change according to 
 light and darkness. The rest of the battle is left up to attacking as many times as possible to 
 deal as much damage as possible or build up combos that will obliterate your enemies in one swift 
 attack.
  
  Graphics: The world of Eternal Sonata is rich with color and is a constantly pleasing to the eyes. 
 The colors are always in harmony with the present mood and scene. When there is a trial, say with 
 the betrayal of an important character, the colors seem to darken slightly and make you feel the 
 emotions of characters. On the flip side the joyful and comedic times with Salsa and Beat are increased 
 in lighting and make you feel like you could just frolic around like a little kid with no worries. 
 
  
  There is also a very distinct sense of realism in the variety of places that you come upon through 
 out the game. The cities have the old 19th century look and feel to them as do the streets and 
 village dwellings. The forest and caves are a spectacular feast for the eyes. The colors are blended 
 and contrasted so perfectly you could almost walk into the wonderful world.
  
  The characters are exceptionally well made and are very interesting. The Victorian style clothes 
 are amazing. They are detailed down to the last stitch and the designs on them are awesome too. 
 The expressions were realistic and most always fit the present circumstances. The one problem I 
 had with the characters is lack of natural movement. They looked like someone taped sticks to their 
 arms that keep them permanently out to their sides. Also their hair always stayed in one clump 
 and never moved. It kinda reminded me of my mom's hair. Ugh. 
  
  Music and Sound: The melodies intwined throughout the game are extrodinary in every way. Many of 
 the actual Fredric Chopin's concetos are played during chapter changes and a variety of other places. 
 They bring in a classic and refined feel to the already stupendous masterpiece. The other resonances 
 all sound superb.
  
  I don't know who chose the people to voice the characters but they did a magnificent job. Fredric 
 voiced by Patrick Seitz had a deeper yet melodious voice that makes him more sincere about his 
 mission in this dream world of his. Polka voiced by Erin Fitzgerald has a nervous but sweet voice 
 that shows her uncertainty about her whole life in general and at times shows just how happy she 
 really is. The other voices go accordingly.
  
  FUN FACTOR!!!: On a scale of one to ten I would say that this game gets an (drumroll please) 8.5. 
 The game keeps you busy the whole forty hours that it takes to beat the story line straight through. 
 While this is a good thing some of the time is spent going back in forth on sidequest that are 
 NOT fun. One of these tortures is when you go into the graveyard looking for the water for the 
 little girl's flower in Andantino. You have to go around collecting flames trying to match them 
 up with the proper doors in order to pass through them. The first time it took me an hour just 
 to find all of the flames I needed. That is just a little ridiculous. 
  
  On the other hand the story keeps guessing and the battles are a constant change. With new characters 
 around every corner and new special attacks added after leveling up so much there really isn't 
 time to get bored. The flow keeps on taking you new places and bringing in new challenges. It is 
 really just an all around fun game to play. 
  
  Lasting Appeal: This is what it all comes down to: the lasting appeal. I would have to honestly 
 say that this game kept me going all the way to the end. The story was like Spuddies where enough 
 is never enough. I just had to keep playing and find out what happened next. The outstanding music 
 just made me thirst for more of its lovely harmony. Seeing new places and meeting new people kept 
 me going too. The playable characters all came one after another so there was always something 
 fresh. Overall if you want a game that has an awesome story, great gameplay, and matching graphics 
 and music this might be the game for you.
  
  Eternal Sonata is a wonderful RPG with an original, new story. Crisp, new characters bring a relief 
 to the same old same old. And that heavenly music of Chopin ties this game together perfectly. 
 I hope that my review is helpful. Thank you for reading. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SymonDezyn
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 20, 2009 1:25 pm PT
Review:  One of the few really solid JRPG's for the 360, this game has everything we could wish for - stunning 
 graphics, great battle system, and NO random battles! 
  
  Story wise, it's a little flat - a lot of buildup and long cutscenes leading to an ending that 
 just... well, it's just plain confusing. But, if you aren't looking for your game to give you a 
 feel-good story with a nice hearty dose of morals at the end, then the rest of the game more than 
 makes up for this aspect.
  
  The story through the gameplay is nice, with a great variety of playable characters, and some really 
 gorgeous scenery. Battle keeps from getting boring (even when level grinding) because in addition 
 to your characters leveling up (as per the norm) your party level also levels up, giving you the 
 option to choose the benefits of a higher level with a greater challenge in tactical and action 
 time. Party Level 6 (the highest) is even more of a challenge because the key commands change with 
 every chain attack you pull off, making you pay attention to what you're doing as opposed to mindless 
 button smashing (this is a good thing!)
  
  There are bonus sidequests and dungeons that are not necessary for finishing the game but offer 
 additional challenges if you do decide to take on the new game plus feature.
  
  Be forewarned though: if you are into getting achievements for a game, the main storyline provides 
 only a measly 125 gs for completion - the rest will require a longer and more gruelling (albeit 
 worthwhile) commitment from you. 
  
  Not only that, a new game plus doubles all enemy HP, and their ATK/DEF becomes 1.5x the first playthrough. 
 It also does not allow you to keep weapons, items or money, but you do keep your party level, and 
 any score pieces you have collected. Trust me though, it is doable, and once you have the expertise 
 of your first playthrough, you'll enjoy the extra challenge, for the most part.
  
  In summary, if you are a JRPG fan, this is a must-play, whether you are a completionist or a casual 
 gamer and just want to breeze through the story - it offers both options, and promises to appeal 
 to RPG lovers of all types. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yhibiki
Rating: 5
Date: Feb 7, 2009 10:27 am PT
Review:  Having heard a lot about the game, I decided to buy it on a whim. It was beautiful, and being a 
 fan of JRPGs, I was always happy to add another to my lacking 360 collection.
  
  I was only lucky to have started the game with a friend, because I doubt I would have sat through 
 it otherwise.
  
  Things I did enjoy: the graphics are gorgeous. Sure, the character models stand awkwardly at time, 
 but the backgrounds are beautiful and the color schemes are amazing. The music itself is fairly 
 good as well, which is to be expected of a game that is centered around the life-and-death of Chopin. 
 And the multiplayer aspect of the gameplay is a blast. Playing it with a friend made me actually 
 want to level grind... which might have been a bad idea, since it ended up making the bosses far 
 too easy after a certain point.
  
  However, my enjoyment of the gameplay was always interrupted by the sad excuse for a story. The 
 villains had no motivation at all; things were done for inexplicable reasons. Characters started 
 crushing on each other after minimal amounts of interaction. Other characters spent far too long 
 monologuing. (When is a death scene too long? When it takes HALF AN HOUR.)
  
  Then there were the sections on Chopin's life. These might have been more enjoyable had I been 
 playing on an HD TV; as it was, I was playing on a 17-inch SD TV, and all text on the screen was 
 incredibly hard to read. I would have loved to has just skipped them -- but deciding to skip the 
 Chopin cut-scenes would make all the regular story scenes skip as well. It would have been appreciated 
 if those parts had been separated into different sections, allowing me to skip Chopin's life's 
 story -- or maybe an overly long death scene -- without compromising the rest of the game's story.
 
  
  Still, having sat through all of it, I can't say that I understood the story at all, when it came 
 right down to it. The ending was completely out of the blue and did not tie up all the loose ends, 
 as an ending is supposed to do. I also don't understand why the credits needed to scroll by TWICE, 
 once with characters giving thinly concealed commentary on global warming, and another just straight 
 white-on-black credits.
  
  At least the game was short, so I didn't waste too much of my life on that deeply unsatisfying 
 ending. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: revansode
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 13, 2009 9:35 am PT
Review:  I never thought I would play this game when I frist saw it but later I got a strang liking of this 
 game then I played it the game play is relly good and with every new party level it gits evan more 
 aciting I invite you to play this game to try it out your self but it may not last on the 360 for 
 long do to playstations extra cotent that they have added to there version but it eternal sonata 
 will make the 360 shine more then any other game has so buy it and play it it want disapoit you 
 at all and in by doing so you can give this game more time on the 360 but if not I don't blame 
 you the game takes atleats 40-50 minutes for it to git even more interesing and sorry if theres 
 so many erros fast typer don't forgit to look for more game reviews from me in the future becuase 
 i'm not done yet theres still so many games out there to be reviewed 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SelfTitledGames
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jan 8, 2009 11:51 pm PT
Review:  This game is gorgeous and it has an awesome battle system. That's about all there is to say for 
 Eternal Sonata. I don't care about any of the characters, there are way too many cutscenes, almost 
 every single one of them is 5 characters sitting at a table talking about what they are going to 
 do. The story is bland and slow. I don't care if they do whatever it is they are doing. Both the 
 English and the Japanese voice actors are terrible. The battle system is the only reason I gave 
 this game as much time as I did. My recommendation to anyone considering buying it is to just play 
 the demo a few times. That's easily the best way to experience what makes this game shine (the 
 graphics and the battle system) and to ignore the crap that makes this game horrible (cutscenes 
 and plot) . There are plenty of other good RPGs out there. 5.5 might even be too kind to it.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IStKI
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 27, 2008 11:15 pm PT
Review:  A quick review of Eternal Sonata's major points:
  
  Graphics 9/10:
  
  ES is a beatiful game, filled with amazing amounts of color. Even the darkness is filled with light 
 hues, an interesting feature when contrasted with the overarching subject matter. Several of the 
 character models, however, as well as the animations of said characters, are a little strange, 
 but overall do not detract.
  
  Sound 9.5/10:
  
  -Combining several of Chopin's more well-known pieces with epic pieces designed for the game, the 
 sound one of the, if not the most, impressive aspect of this game. Further, the wealth of battle 
 tracks is incredible, keeping battling fresh, at least in this respect, for a long while.
  - Some of the voice acting, on the other hand, comes across as weak, while others, such as Chopin, 
 come across as strong. The balance between the two does not detract.
  
  Gameplay 8.5/10:
  
  While the real-time/turn-based battling is an interesting mechanic, and is indeed executed 
 successfully, the lack of variety of enemies and the continuous battling (up to 20 hours) can grow 
 tiriing and redundantm, thus detracting from the score. However, the combat is very smooth, addictive, 
 and fun.
  
  Story 6/10:
  
  In this version of the game, the story finds itself stumbling at times. In typical JRPG fashion, 
 certain elements of the story are ignored due to cultural preferences, most likely. An odd assortment 
 of characters, coupled with overly long sequences and dragged out conversations, greatly affect 
 the flow of the story. Further, bosses disappear after defeat without any mention from characters 
 (most notably the case with the near-to-final boss) , character relationships are apparently developed 
 off-screen and when brought to the forefront feel forced, and character motivations aren't particularly 
 well explained or thought out (apparently the double-cross is a common practice for everything) . 
 Overall, the story, while not completely broken, isn't executed to its potential.
  
  Difficulty - Easy:
  
  There will come a point in the story where you will be completely overlevelled. 
 To avoid this: do not engage in any battles. Luckily, the game remains fun despite its relative 
 ease.
  
  Overall - 8/10:
  
  ES is a fun, addictive, and unique game, but one not completely successful in its execution. Despite 
 these factors, this is still a game you should really play, although it may only be worth a rent 
 if you are not a fan of RPGs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Livingemerald
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 15, 2008 8:24 am PT
Review:  Eternal Sonata is a game that I have mixed feelings about. The gameplay is good though it does 
 has its flaws. There are challenging moments but not many. The story is cute and an original idea 
 yet the ending is unfullfilling. 
  
  Gameplay: The gameplay was good, it had a nice real time turn based mix to the combat but I feel 
 the lack of random battles was a mixed blessing. You could speed through levels with ease but the 
 problem arises that you lack levels that you requre later on. The harmonic combo's work well but 
 can easily be abused when you work out the right combinations. 
  
  The game itself: The game itself has its challenging moments but there isnt consistancy to it. 
 There are small puzzle areas but few and far between. For the most part its just a nice little 
 story book with interaction.
  
  The Story: The story is good as you can identify with the characters well over the course of the 
 game but there is abit of a confusion as to what the purpose is of the characters. There is a strong 
 relationship built up overthe course of the game but in all honesty the end of the story lacked 
 somthing. 
  
  All in all this game is a good laugh and it has its sad moments and its happy moments but you need 
 to really like games for there stories to enjoy this 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MegandDia128
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 12, 2008 1:12 am PT
Review:  Eternal Sonata is an RPG developed by Tri-Cresendo those of you who are RPG fans might recogize 
 them as the sound company that helped with Tri-Ace Games. The game is well put together has a unique 
 real time battle system and a cast of likable characters. the story revolves around Fredric Chopin 
 a famous music compser on his deathbed in paris. He has a dream that he goes to a world where he 
 and others must save it from a power hunger leader. He meets Polka a young girl who has an incurable 
 disease and that allows her to use magic. One minor very minor problem that I have with the game 
 is it focuses on Fredric Chopin's life, to tell you the truth I could care less about his life, 
 but like I said this is not a big deal it is breif and does not occur often that is really the 
 only problem with the game. after about playing it for 3 hours you will realized that the game 
 has alot to do with music the characters names focus that. for instance here are a few you will 
 encounter. Polka, Beat, Viola, Falsetto, Waltz, you get the picture. If you are looking for a good 
 RPG on both Playstation 3 and Xbox 360 you have found a good one. this game is far from horrible 
 and definitely worth a play. it is not one you would constantly play over and over again but it 
 does have moderate replay value. like I said if you love RPG or even if you are a fan of another 
 Genre you will want to play this game. It deserves a well earned 10 of 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ryu_San
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 27, 2008 9:34 am PT
Review:  Originality is sparse in game concepts. Most follow standard formulas and are easily categorized 
 in terms of plot and gameplay. "Eternal Sonata" is one of those rare games that risk everything 
 with an original concept. Alas, like many others, "Eternal Sonata" is in many ways refreshing, 
 but is also filled with a huge array of worn out clichs, that just like bad music, never allow 
 the game to reach its "crescendo".
  
  Frederic Chopin is dying. While he lies on his deathbed, he starts to dream of a magical world 
 where every note, song and symphony he ever wrote come to life in the form of characters and locations. 
 The game can be depicted as his inner journey throughout this dream, where a dense plot lies, filled 
 with the classic themes of love, betrayal and death. Since Chopin was a real life character, realism 
 would have been the way to go in terms of art design. But strangely, the only speck of reality 
 in this game lies in slideshows that recount Chopin's Biography, through captioned live-action 
 pictures accompanied by the sound of Chopin's greatest music.
  
  But apart from those memorable sequences, the aesthetic of the game is very anime-like actually, 
 it's pure anime. Cutscenes have dialogue, action, comedy and directing that follow anime's principles. 
 And they're actually pretty good, filled with cinematic camera angles and great use of soundtrack. 
 Characters are young, cute, act like silly "j-pop" kids, and have the unusual tendency to start 
 digressing about the meaning of life and death. That might've been a downside, but the truth is 
 that the dialogues in these philosophical sequences are sharply written, in the tradition of animes 
 like "Evangelion" or "Ghost in the Shell". However, like the "animes" it resembles, most of the 
 hidden meanings of the narrative only become clear after the game-over screen, and even then, they 
 are never fully explained. Unveiling the hidden meanings of the plot requires some thought, since 
 many actions and dialogues are of an allegorical or metaphorical nature, bursting with spiritual 
 meaning. Art usually lends itself to be open for interpretation, and though games rarely do so, 
 "Eternal Sonata" clearly wants to stand out, and thus become like one of Chopin's melodies: enigmatic 
 and beautiful.
  
  And beautiful is certainly the right word to describe the visuals of "Eternal Sonata". Lush environments, 
 filled with vibrant colors and lighting schemes, merge to form crisp, awe inspiring imagery, with 
 some impressionist references. This aesthetic choice fits perfectly with the game's theme, as Chopin 
 lived roughly around the same time as when the impressionist movement emerged. There's also a rare 
 amount of detail in every game element: buildings' architecture, characters' wardrobe and accessories 
 are portrayed with surgical-like precision and show a great deal of creativity, even by "japanimation" 
 standards. Even the best "Final Fantasies" may look a bit shady when compared to this game's bright 
 color palettes.
  
  "Tri-Crescendo" has been the sound designer of "Tri-Ace" ("Star Ocean" and "Tales" series) , and 
 was behind the "Baten Kaitos" games and it shows. Soundtrack (among other things) will feel familiar 
 to those who played any of these games, but, since the subject matter is Chopin, Composer Motoi 
 Sakuraba's music is heavily influenced by his work, which results in one of his best soundtracks 
 so far.
  
  Where "Eternal Sonata" does hit a bad note is in gameplay elements. Hiroya Hatsushiba's creativity 
 appears to have run out after designing the plot and art aspects, something that curiously didn't 
 happen in his previous works ("Baten Kaitos"and "Baten Kaitos II") . The actual game inside "Eternal 
 Sonata" is extremely formulaic, as if it was an afterthought in the creative process. Probably, 
 the designers thought that there was enough innovation in other aspects to risk breaking any more 
 conventions in gameplay. And, looking at the rant "Final Fantasy XII" got for trying to break the 
 mold, maybe they weren't so far off. Action is therefore, business as usual, with towns and dungeon-like 
 areas to explore in the same tiring way as every other J-RPG (talk to very villager, get items 
 in small wooden boxes) , and combat is turn-based (with one or two gimmicks that try to cover it 
 up) . Battles are somewhat fun (for the first hours anyway) and relatively easy, which is a plus, 
 since that means you don't have to tire yourself too much with the repetition of the attack-attack-heal 
 strategy, which is basically everything you can actually do during combat. On the other hand, dungeons 
 are too elaborate for a game with no map whatsoever, which means consistently exploring every nut 
 and crack of the scenarios, which also means more dull and insipid combat.
  
  If it wasn't for the blandness of the gameplay aspects of the game, "Eternal Sonata" would probably 
 be one of the greatest RPG's ever made, period. But as it stands, it manages only to achieve one 
 of its goals: create an "artsy" audio-visual interpretation of Chopin's works. The game sees itself 
 as fine art, and fine art it is it's just not interactive fine art. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Senor_Kami
Rating: 5.5
Date: Nov 18, 2008 9:12 am PT
Review:  There are tons of reviews and product descriptions so I'm only going to go into things that I praise 
 or dislike. I won't dwell on specifics about the story or game play mechanics, since you've likely 
 read about them over and over again, unless its exceptionally good or bad. This review will also 
 be 100% spoiler free.
  
  The Story...
  The story in this game is actually pretty interesting. It incorporates themes like war, environmentalism 
 and even corporations vs small businesses. My issue however is that the game assumes that you are 
 a complete idiot and could never figure out these things on your own. The game harps on them constantly 
 and beats you over the head trying to explain the symbolism over and over again, just in case you 
 didn't catch it the first 50 times it spelled it out for you. If you don't mind that, the story 
 is pretty good.
  
  The characters...
  Some of them are mildly interesting and do some key events in the story, but only two out of about 
 12 characters are fleshed out at all. I can usually get attached to characters pretty easily, but 
 I only became remotely attached to the people I fought with. Sadly they weren't the ones who were 
 fleshed out nor did they do anything particularly interesting in the story. Which was upsetting 
 because one of them was mildly involved in an interesting side story that never got any resolution 
 and ended in a way that seemed like the developers forgot that they had introduced her as a part 
 of it.
  
  The gameplay (non-combat) ...
  The game is incredibly linear. Every town has one entrance and one exit. There aren't really any 
 side quests or anything to explore. Part of the lack of exploration is due to the invisible walls 
 that keep you on a very narrow walking path for the bulk of the game. The only times you can really 
 explore an area are when you are in a huge open field with nothing to discover.
  
  With no exploration, the game often feels like you are walking from one cut scene to the next, 
 broken up with mazes (there is one ungodly maze that will probably make you pull your hair out, 
 but is somewhat welcomed because everything else in the game is so easy) and combat. This wouldn't 
 be so bad, but there are serious issues with the combat.
  
  The combat...
  The combat in this game is its most disappointing aspect. It is overtly easy and simplistic despite 
 seeming fairly complex and in-depth if you simply read a description of it.
  
  For example, let's look at the light/dark elements. This would be a very strategic part of battle 
 if there were certain types of moves that could only be done in the light and others that could 
 only be done in the dark. However, it's nothing like that. You can do heals and super attacks, 
 regardless of where you are. Not only that, but you can assign a large number of moves to be your 
 light or dark attack. What's the difference between doing Dark Super Attack 1 or Light Super Attack 
 1? Well, nothing. At the end of the day it doesn't really matter where you are because you can 
 pull off a super attack of your choice regardless.
  
  And it's not just for the Light/Dark. Practically every aspect of combat suffers from seeming strategic/complex/tactical 
 on paper but actually being overly easy in execution. The party system is another good example. 
 As your party levels up, it introduces restrictions that, on paper, would make the combat more 
 difficult and require the player to really pay attention to what's going on. One of these is the 
 time you get to plan out your move. However, you never need to plan your moves out. As stated above, 
 it doesn't matter where you are; you can pull off super attacks or super heals regardless of being 
 in the light or dark. So this reduction of planning time never pans out to an increase in difficulty. 
 All you need to do is be in attack range for your character and then button mash. 
  
  Yes, I said "button mash". I read numerous reviews that describe the combat as "strategic" (Gamespot) 
 and "tactical" (IGN) . This couldn't be farther from the truth. Button mashing is the Holy Grail 
 for this game. I'm no expert and JRPG combat and I usually die often and have to use items to revive 
 characters. Especially on boss fights. In this game I never lost a single battle, I never had a 
 character lose more than 1/3 of their health during a battle and I never had to use a single item 
 during combat.
  
  Another sour spot about the party level system is that once you reach a certain point, it actually 
 makes the game easier by allowing to chain up to 3 super moves back to back all in one turn. And 
 its not just attacks. If you have a character with a healing super move, you can usually pull off 
 it off somewhere in the sequence. For me that broke the game at a time where I was hoping that 
 it would finally become as "strategic" and "tactical" as other reviewers described it.
  
  For a video example of the combat, check out me playing it here: http://www. youtube. com/watch? v=JPme6gbsmGw
 
  
  The graphics
  While there are a lot of jaggies, the graphics in this game are top notch. The saving grace for 
 combat is that the super moves look so damn cool, especially when you do the super powered versions 
 of them. You get a little 2-4 second cut scene with a close up of your character saying something 
 in an epic voice then totally unloading a barrage of attacks on the opponent with particles and 
 light flashes flying all over the place. The environments are well drawn and look gorgeous. Sadly, 
 this only exacerbates the annoyance of the invisible walls that prevent from exploring them.
  
  The sound
  The music is good. I didn't find it to be as great as other have, but then again 
 I listen to a good deal of classical music so this was more "the norm" for me than something that 
 was just mind-blowingly amazing. I give the composer of the original music credit though: his songs 
 don't sound out of place or poor quality when played next to Chopin.
  
  The recommendation
  Well, it's hard for me to recommend this game. Most of the redeeming aspects 
 of the game have nothing to do with gameplay and the poorly done aspects are basically everything 
 about the gameplay. The two pros are its graphics and music. If you can find a youtube compilation 
 of some gameplay footage and a soundtrack to the game, you'd be experiencing all the good aspects 
 of the game without having to suffer through actually playing it. This is a title I can only recommend 
 to people who love JRPGs to the point that they'd enjoy a bad one.
  
  The metaphor
  A beautiful layer of icing on an intricately sculpted cake that's rotten, maggot infested and 
 totally unfit for eating unless you think food poisoning is awesome.
  
  The PS3 version...
  Additions to the PS3 version include 2 new dungeons, two new playable characters 
 and an update to player models when you wear armor/items. For me, more button mashing combat and 
 new armor won't fix any of the issues I had with the game. It will provide you with more eye candy, 
 but thats like adding cherries to the icing of that rotten maggot infested cake. The second someone 
 cuts you a slice or you actually eat it, you'll probably feel like you were tricked by the cherries 
 rather than them adding redeeming value. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jason4774
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 14, 2008 2:23 pm PT
Review:  I played the demo for this game a year ago, and while i was tempted to get it, other "big titles" 
 were coming out left and right, so I passed on it.
  
  Then, after playing...
  
  Half Life 2, ep. 2
  Bioshock
  Crysis
  Call of Duty 4
  Assassin's Creed
  Grand Theft Auto 
 4
  Dead Space
  Fallout 3
  and plenty more...
  
  ... I began to notice that, while these games are certainly engaging and innovative in their own 
 way, they're grim, dismal, and my nerves could only take these games for hours at a time.
  
  Now, I'm a lover of games, and all the games I've listed are deeply immersive, but it's like 
 being a fan of movies, and the only good movies coming out these days are horror movies, intended 
 to shock your nerves silly and get your twitch reflexes into overdrive. Sure, they're good, but 
 christ... can't anyone make an immersive RPG these days?
  
  And, the last attempt at playing an RPG on the 360 was Lost Odyssey, and while I feel it told a 
 good story, immersion was about a deep as a puddle, and gameplay felt has fast and fun as riding 
 ten miles on a unicycle while wearing wet socks.
  
  Anyway, Eternal Sonata, turns out, was the game I should have purchased ages ago. In a lot of ways, 
 it's a modern day JRPG done just right, and in other ways, it's about par for the course.
  
  First, the par for the course part.
  
  The story, while having moments of interest, is 
 needlessly convoluted at one moment, and then becomes derivitively simple and predictable the next. 
 But, having played many JRPG's, this doesn't seem to wreck the fun of the game, it just raises 
 a few eyebrows from me, wondering if there's a point to the narrative.
  
  Though, the core idea, Chopin's final dream, is wonderful, and the world itself, is delightful 
 and wonderful. The characters are likable enough, as long as you approach this game as a children's 
 story played through a game, you shouldn't have any problems. If, on the other hand, you're the 
 type who is proud to be the first to point out "but a parsec is a measure of DISTANCE, not TIME!", 
 then you're gonna take issue with some plot lapses.
  
  Anyway, ideas, story concepts, characters even, seem to always take a backseat in video games to 
 one, all important thing...
  
  ... Immersion.
  
  If a game can hold my attention, and be completely enjoyable through the process, I can forgive 
 it for trying to convince me that a utopian city can exist underwater, or that north koreans in 
 the future will insist on calling me a "yankee dog." It doesn't matter... what matters is "was it 
 fun to play?" Let's face it... Crysis, as a movie, would fail. (Don't believe me? Go watch "Doom", 
 then come back and argue with me some more.) But, as a game, it's a hell of alot of fun to play.
 
  
  And Eternal Sonata is a blast! The world and character design is lovely. The art direction is fantastic, 
 the music is delightful and blends in with the actual Chopin used at times wonderfully, and the 
 combat is fun, and puts some different twists on what we're all used to. Even the inserts about 
 Chopin's actual life are fairly interesting enough to read about, enough so to forgive the fact 
 that it's taking me out of the game to read them.
  
  Honestly, while there's alot on the seamless story and shallow plot front to wage war against this 
 game with, I still feel that the strengths of this game, it''s fluid level design, fun combat, 
 and lovely world that never breaks it's own illusion, are things that other modern day RPG's should 
 all look at. It's fun to play, and keeps your interest. And, with this current trend of "realistic, 
 gritty" games coming out, games as charming and fun as Eternal Sonata are a breath of fresh air 
 in a gaming world riddled with too many bullets and too little beauty. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mountain_Rugby
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 7, 2008 6:01 am PT
Review:  Graphically this game is marvelous, truly marvelous in color and design. The costumes are one of 
 the many tropes to be found in an anime-style RPG, with the multiple pants and unneeded straps. 
 
  
  The action however is repetitive , as to be expected, and seems unresponsive to leveling. Perhaps 
 we are spoiled these days with our games like fable and Elder scrolls, wherein our characvters 
 progress visually and emotionally throughout the game, these characters end up lacking an emotional 
 connection.
  
  The voice acting seems to use the same troop of actors as every cheese-ball Anime movie or game 
 that has ever been released, making you itch for someone else to prevent flashbacks of other games. 
 It falls flat for what is otherwise an extremely sound-oriented game.
  
  A few parts of the games get so stuffy you may even find yourself hitting the power button so that 
 you can step ouytside and fight claustrophobia.
  
  The storyline was a real let down for me; two narratives showing such potential ruined by the false 
 percieved need for embellishment upon the true narrative of a musical genius. I feel there could've 
 been much more done with such a rich subject, than running to old RPG stereotypes and tropes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SabotFox
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 3, 2008 1:37 am PT
Review:  Eternal Sonata is a bright and colorful RPG that has players embark on a journey through a dream 
 world created by genius pianist Frederic Chopin as he lies on his deathbed. The story bounces back 
 and forth between the dreary London estate where Chopin dies and the bright but troubled land where 
 magic heralds illnesses and a revolution is forming on the fringes of the Forte kingdom.
  
  The story opens with Polka, a young girl who is trying to get home and bounces between her story 
 and that of Allegretto and Beat, two young thieves out to confront Count Forte about his ridiculous 
 taxes. You'll bounce back and forth between these two stories for a bit as you learn how to work 
 Sonata's combat system. 
  
  Basically, it's a turn-based RPG that's trying to teach someone how to play a real-time RPG through 
 the use of a Party Level system. You'll start with an infinite amount of tactical time (time to 
 plan your move) . Once you start moving, you'll cut into your action time (5 seconds) , but the timer 
 will stop anytime you stop moving in case you need to plan your next move. You'll also get a fraction 
 of time back whenever you successfully land an attack. As the game progresses, your tactical time 
 diminishes and your action time will keep ticking away even when you're not moving, with the tradeoff 
 being that you'll gain extra abilities and be able to hold more items. While this is all well and 
 good for anyone who hasn't played these types of games before, for veterans of real-time combat, 
 this kind of hand-holding can be really infuriating. You can downgrade your Party Level if the 
 combat is a little much for you, but you can't upgrade it if the combat is way too easy. As a result, 
 even though your starting panel has a counterattack button clearly labeled, you won't be able to 
 use this ability until over halfway through the game.
  
  When not in combat, the story moves along at a lethargic pace, assisted by the lengthy debates 
 about dreams and reality over Chopin's deathbed and frequent departures to provide historical background 
 about Chopin's life. It's almost as if this game is intended to be a historical lesson about Chopin, 
 made even more ridiculous when he appears in the game as a cane wielding freedom fighter out to 
 save the world.
  
  The game is graphically ludicrous. The characters are brightly modeled, but with their large eyes 
 and cherubic faces, plus the fact that they're always standing around with arms akimbo, it's almost 
 as if Bandai has assembled a cast of Precious Moments figurines to populate the game. Their facial 
 features aren't really well-defined, so they often look angry for no apparent reason or at the 
 very least, extremely distracted. Areas are cluttered with background and foreground features, 
 often obscuring the path you're supposed to take, and many context clues or items you can find 
 or held in a ridiculously small space, so it's hard to get your character in exactly the right 
 spot to get the familiar question mark to appear above their heads.
  
  Musically, the game is fairly strong, if you're into classical music. The vast majority of the 
 score is taken from Chopin's own music, appropriate since the entirety of the game takes place 
 inside his head.
  Eternal Sonata moved a little too slowly for my taste, and the look and feel of the characters 
 put me off a lot. If that weren't enough, the combat was extremely frustrating for someone who's 
 played a few real-time RPGs. This game may benefit from the hand-holding approach, but it should 
 have offered a fast track for veteran players.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Azrael007
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 1, 2008 6:43 am PT
Review:  Japanese role-playing games used to be a genre unto themselves. Back in the glory days of JRPGs, 
 before those confounded western development studios with their huge budgets and their burly space 
 marines of surprisingly diverse ethnic backgrounds (who knew the Space Army would be all about 
 the affirmative action?) , Japanese RPGs were the standard by which other games were measured. Oh, 
 how times have changed! 
  
  With the cost of development rising sharply this generation and game finance skewing heavily towards 
 western markets, the once-mighty JRPG seems to be going the path of genres like text-based MUDs 
 or the point-and-click adventure game. The capricious march of technology has made Japanese RPGs 
 a risky endeavor. For those like me, RPG veterans nursed on a steady diet of Dragon Quest, this 
 transition has been a very painful one.
  
  I know, deep within my hear, that I am not the only one who has beseeched the fickle gods of video 
 game development for more quality role-playing games while gnashing my teeth and weeping. As such, 
 as much as I would love to recommend Eternal Sonata as our long-awaited JRPG messiah, I simply 
 cannot. To our review.
  
  STORY
  
  The main character is not a plucky, happy-go-lucky teen with a convenient case of amnesia. You 
 are not the chosen hero destined to overthrow the corrupt Western hegemony and metaphorically restore 
 Japan to its highly-romanticized feudal glory. You are not tasked to defeat the ultimate evil. 
 On the surface, everything seems promising.
  
  The premise? Celebrated Polish pianist Frederic Chopin is terminally ill, and in his mind he has 
 been transported to a colorful fantasy world where shadows and light conjure different sets of 
 abilities and everyone is apparently named after musical terminology.
  
  With a premise so bizarre, Eternal Sonata seems rife with the possibility of being a uniquely captivating 
 rpg. Sadly, any pretense of originality is thrown out the window shortly into the story... namely, 
 when you meet your first plucky, happy-go-lucky teen companion (the first of many, I assure you) .
 
  
  What begins as Chopin's terminal illness quickly devolves into the wily adventures of Chopin and 
 his Magical Anime Friends, all of whom are plucked straight from the shelves of Anime Stereotypes 
 'R Us. A promising plot involving two warring political powers (Forte and Baroque) eventually unfolds 
 with bland predictability. The possibility of exploring complex shades of morality during a time 
 of war is lost when the story shifts into a generic battle between infallible flower-power goodness 
 (your party) and a remorseless evil (Count Waltz) .
  
  The story is not without some inspired moments. Polka, one of Chopin's many companions, reminds 
 him heavily of his long-deceased sister, and plot elements involving this contain some scenes which 
 border on being truly tender. Otherwise, even death fails to evoke an emotional response; after 
 all, it's hard to care for the passing of a character you've known for a sum total of ten minutes.
 
  
  Summary: The amount of cut-scenes are well beyond excessive, especially since most of them are 
 droll, if not entirely pointless. This is not a game like Metal Gear Solid, with forty layers of 
 plot twists, metaphors, and self-references. An original premise also eventually gives way to a 
 story which is largely a paint-by-numbers story which could have been ripped from any number of 
 other games.
  
  Score: 6/10 (Fair)
  
  Graphics
  
  Much like the story, on the surface the graphics are gorgeous, but in execution they fail to deliver 
 the sum total of their promise. The world surrounding Chopin is bright and colorful: an ideal setting 
 for any idealistic protagonist wanting to escape his own mortality.
  
  If the art direction had involved more than "lots of bright colors" this could have been a real 
 winner. The animation is stiff; characters only seem to have two or three points of articulation, 
 and lumber around like wooden dolls. The anime-inspired character designs fit well with the vibrant 
 settings, but they are not particularly inspired. Some designs, like Chopin and Princess Serenade, 
 show promise. Others, like Polka, fall flat: you would be hard-pressed to identify some of your 
 party members in a line-up of random NPC townspeople.
  
  Enemy designs fair a little better. Some enemies drastically change appearance between light and 
 shadow, though sadly these unique enemy designs are few. Most of the enemies are standard JRPG 
 cannon fodder, and they lack the visual acuity that works so well in other games, whether it's 
 Dragon Quest's iconic cartoon slimes or the demented demons of the Shadow Hearts series. Like the 
 characters, the enemies fit... but they don't quite captivate.
  
  The game's visual performance is solid. Save the rare stutter in frame rate, the technical performance 
 of the graphics is commendable.
  
  Summary: The color palette is lush and fantastical, but stiff animation and standard art design 
 keep the game from being visually captivating. The game's technical performance is solid but not 
 flawless.
  
  Score: 7/10 (Average)
  
  Sound
  
  Save for the rare game that splurges on orchestration, rpg soundtracks tend to be a repetitive 
 cycle of town music/battle music/town music. Luckily, this game had the foresight to include a 
 healthy dose of the famous protagonist's works.
  
  The exceedingly linear nature of the game creates a predictable audio experience; as stated, you'll 
 be hearing many of the same songs or themes over and over again. The game benefits heavily by including 
 the works of a musical genius instead of the usual offering of synthesized music. The original 
 works are, understandably, far less captivating. Overall the experience is not repetitive but likewise 
 it's never transcendental.
  
  The voice acting is much the same. All the performances are solid, but none of the characters bristle 
 with personality. Lots (and lots and lots and lots and lots) of inane, one-dimensional dialogue 
 probably doesn't help. One or two of the characters sometimes become grating. such as the villainous 
 Count. How long do you need to elaborate your various schemes? This is not a 1940's pulp fiction 
 novel.
  
  Sound effects, in general, are solid. Enemies roar but they aren't particularly fierce. Special 
 moves in combat trigger static sound effects. Blasters make blasting noises, fireballs explode, 
 and little teenage anime girls squeal in a decidedly Japanese way when smacked around. You know 
 what I mean.
  
  Summary: The works of Frederic Chopin are timeless. The rest is standard fare. The music isn't 
 overly repetitive and the voice acting is solid enough to avoid jokes about embarrassingly bad 
 dialogue. Sound effects are standard, so move along. For a real musical treat, remove the game 
 disc and pop in a Chopin CD.
  
  Score: 9/10 (for Chopin) , 6/10 (everything else) , 8/10 overall
  
  Gameplay
  
  Ah, what 
 a mixed bag we have here: sparkling jewels and rotten fruit living together in perfect harmony, 
 just like ebony and ivory! (Sorry, one piano joke was mandatory for a game starring Chopin and 
 his Magical Anime Squad.)
  
  Combat is one of the highlights of the game. Each time a character's (or enemy's) turn comes up, 
 a meter starts counting down, and you're given several seconds to walk about and machine-gun abilities 
 as you see fit until time time expires. While simple in premise, in execution it can be quite fun 
 - strategic, even, when combined with the game's light and dark mechanics.
  
  Your character's abilities differ depending on whether they are in light or darkness. Wanna unleash 
 your powerful shadow-based sword attack? Step into your enemy's shadow and pummel him. Wanna use 
 your light-based healing but it's night? Quickly step into a strategically-placed pool of moonlight 
 to unlock your healing abilities.
  
  Combat against weaker opponents is little more than button-mashing till your timer expires. However, 
 as enemies get harder and the light/dark mechanics become more involved, combat can often be a 
 fast-paced game of careful maneuvering as you try to keep the enemies from using their powerful 
 abilities while simultaneously using your own. The turn-based nature of the combat keeps it from 
 ever being truly tense, but often times battles can be genuinely fun.
  
  Sadly, the unique combat system is not packaged with inspired world design. To say that Eternal 
 Sonata's pathways are linear is to say that Pac-Man enjoys his glowing dots a little. You are shepharded 
 from Point A to Point B almost mindlessly, your forward progress through dungeons broken only by 
 enemies and the rare branching path or mind-numbingly simple puzzle. Combat might be that much 
 more fun if there were any exploration elements to be found; as it stands, the fun combat system 
 can't always save you from feeling like a rat in a one-tunnel maze.
  
  Summary: The combat system is inventive and often fun, but fluffy icing can't save an under-cooked 
 cake. The pathways between towns are as linear and predictable as the story. Nary a puzzle element 
 or mini game to be found, really. Character progression is a pretty standard system of leveling 
 and buying new abilities.
  
  Score: 7/10 (Average)
  
  Conclusion
  
  Eternal Sonata is a fun - if uninspired - release. Lack of competition does not magically make 
 it a stellar game. 
  
  If you're close to the point of cutting yourself due to your desperation for a JRPG to play then 
 pick the game up, but otherwise I'd pass on paying full retail price for this game. 
  
  Buy/Rent/Pass? Buy it if you love sitting and staring at your massive rpg collection for hours 
 on end. Rent it otherwise.
  
  Story: 6/10
  
  Graphics: 7/10
  
  Sound: 8/10
  
  Gameplay: 7/10
  
  Overall: 8/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SOADfan911
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 16, 2008 9:42 pm PT
Review:  When I bought this game (I didn't rent it before) , I was worried about my purchase, but once I 
 got paste the long intro, I was dazzled. Great anime graphics, good classic "Chopin" music and 
 some very entertaining characters make this a fun experience for anyone.
  
  The game uses a very different battle-setting that employs a time meter (5 seconds) that allows 
 you to move and act during the alloted time. Items can be found in the game to increase this time, 
 which makes it all the more interesting.
  
  However, despite all the great aspects of the game, every good thing has a flaw. Some battles seem 
 to be incredibly tough, even when playing on easy mode, and you'll find that some enemies are too 
 strong for the current level of your party. Yes, of course you can go back and train, but the point 
 is that it can easily frustrate someone playing this game for the first time.
  
  All in all, Eternal Sonata deserves an honorable mention in the RPG domain, thanks to it's gameplay, 
 it's storyline, and it's graphics. A great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drk_chaos15
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 4, 2008 1:14 pm PT
Review:  GAMEPLAY (9) - The combat in ES is a mix of real time button mashing with traditional turn based 
 decisions. This unique blend was put together very nicely and makes for enjoyable battles. The 
 combat actually has a decent amount of depth, but takes you along gradually so that you've mastered 
 all of the steps before they introduce a new concept. Monsters are seen on screen and most can 
 be easily avoided, which is helpful if you're trying to get your party to a save point or trying 
 to figure out a puzzle. Speaking of which, the save spots were never too far apart from each other 
 and thankfully there were only a couple of areas that required puzzle solving such as teleporters 
 or the dreaded "flip the switch and then go back and see if anything changed in the previous room". 
 The game is quite linear, and any branching paths usually don't go very far. I had to do very little 
 level grinding, as I found that if I generally took on any monsters in my path that would be sufficient 
 in making my party strong enough for any Boss battles.
  
  GRAPHICS (9) - I have to say this is one of the prettiest games I've saw on the 360. The cel-shaded 
 characters and backgrounds were very detailed with an amazing amount of color and the game truly 
 looked like you were watching a high quality animated movie. Watching this on a large HDTV was 
 particularly impressive.
  
  SOUND (9) - The voice work for the many different characters was above average, as the English voices 
 sounded much better than what I usually hear when they are translating Japanese. As you might expect 
 from a game involving Chopin the music was terrific, with many different piano and orchestra pieces.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: NeoSapphire
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 27, 2008 12:34 am PT
Review:  I picked up Eternal Sonata after playing the 360 demo, because it seemed like a pretty good old 
 fashioned rpg, which, if you've read my Lost Odyssey review, is something rare to find these days. 
 Now I didn't hate Eternal Sonata, but it wasn't a blast to play, and at points I was plainly annoyed 
 by it, and as a longtime rpg gamer, I have a LOT of patience, so it even surprised me. Now to get 
 the full backstory on the game, read gamespots review or a synopsis of the game, because I'm not 
 going to go into detail. Here is what I believe to be a very honest and fair review of the game.
 
  
  Story- I found the Chopin side of the story very interesting, although the historical parts seemed 
 almost too out of place, and almost pointless, because after about an hour Chopin's story is almost 
 forgotten. In fact I found myself wondering why Frederick hardly spoke in the second half of the 
 game, when this was supposed to be mainly about him, or at least thats how it was promoted. More 
 on this in the characters section. The game is fueled by lengthy cutscenes, which is fine to me, 
 but when they move at the pace of a snail in a bucket its hard to be patient. For instance, without 
 giving anything away, a main characters death is early on in the game. Of course we never experience 
 any depth to the character and there is no development, so before it even happens most of us are 
 thinking "Who really cares? I don't know this persons story." Then comes the scene, which is probably 
 going to go down in rpg fan history. Over 10 minutes we are treated to a monologue spoken as the 
 character dies, doing flashbacks to scenes we JUST witnessed a few minutes ago. Anyone witnessing 
 it while playing is bound to roll their eyes more than once. The awful english VA doesn't help 
 this at all. Another thing, the game has some mature storylines and plenty of deaths, but we never 
 SEE any of them, and when we do there is never any gore. Of course that wouldn't fit the art style, 
 but with such material that is presented quite dark at points, having some of the bad guys say 
 a few last words wouldn't hurt. For instance, the entire game almost your trying to stop the vil 
 count Waltz, in a pretty climacted battle, you manage to defeat him. Thats it. No death scene, 
 just a battle. Its quite dissapointing at points.
  
  Characters- Like I said earlier, some are hardly developed, and even with the lengthy cutscenes 
 we don't see very much of any interaction between the cast. Most of the cutscenes are elongated 
 just by characters annoyingly repeating themselves. "Can we cross that bridge?" "I think we should 
 probably cross that bridge." Its all over dramatic, and with the frequent pauses and odd choice 
 of dialogues, it can become grueling to watch some of them. Some characters, like Falsetto, and 
 maybe Jazz, actually fill the "Cool" characters category, and pull it off okay, but everyone else 
 either falls into the whiny sidekick role, the typical "we can do it" hero, the weak female lead, 
 ect. ect. Salsa adds some flavor that can be amusing, but its overshadowed by the lack of depth.
 
  
  Sound- Gorgeous music, although I was expecting a little more Chopin than we got. Although I have 
 to say most of the music is pretty forgettable, but still fits the game while your playing it.
 
  
  Graphics- How did Eternal Sonata score higher than Lost Odyssey? Probably because of its graphics 
 and frame rate, which rule most of todays review forms. The game is gorgeous, and the environments 
 spring to life with awesome glows and color. The characters all look soft and are fun to look at, 
 unfortunately they remain stiff and blocky for the most part.
  
  Battle System- Its fun. Another reason why it scored higher. Most games with "Newer" styles and 
 systems usually score higher, even if games before it such as the Star Ocean series, do it better. 
 All the fights in the game are fun and racking up echoes is pretty catchy, especially seeing all 
 the damage you can end up doing. The special attacks also look amazing, but are kind of overpowered 
 by repeated attack poses and extremely lame dialogue when they use a special attack. Now I love 
 when characters say attack names, its fun and anime like, a throwback to sailormoon if you will, 
 but when they spout off things that make them seem like a crazy person during the fight? "If you 
 strike a stone rocks will shatter, if you strike a person their soul will shatter. Death to them 
 both!" or something of that sort. Makes no sense... sure it sounds cool sometimes, maybe the first 
 time, but then you go "Huh?". The game becomes increasingly easy as it progresses too, so don't 
 expect a challenge.
  
  Overall Eternal Sonata is fun to look at, and the fights are fun if not a little repetitious and 
 tiring, but the story goes nowhere after the first hour, and the cutscenes are bland and feel unconnected. 
 Some extras flavor it up but by then I just wanted to move on with the game and finish it. So I'd 
 say if your on the fence, rent it. Its not a very long game and not exactly worth the cash. Its 
 too bad because it had a great idea, but just didn't go very far with it.
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: polsci1503
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 25, 2008 4:43 pm PT
Review:  Eternal Sonata defies description in many ways although it very much follows in the traditional 
 footsteps of Japanese RPGs. Alot of credit goes to Tri-Crescendo for crafting a game around a story 
 that many people would think could be incredibly boring, but instead brims with color, emotion 
 and spirituality.
  
  The story centers around the famous classical composer Frederic Chopin as he lays dying, still 
 young but struck with some ailment. In his mind Chopin has created a dream world that he inhabits 
 during this period of sickness. This dream world is inhabited by characters, each with a background 
 and story of their own, who Chopin joins up with on a variety of quests that metaphorically deal 
 with Chopin's illness. I will leave the story details at that since it all gets incredibly deep 
 and existential (but confusing at times) and is a story way more mature then the colorful box art 
 would suggest.
  
  The fact that the bulk of the story takes place in a dream world means that the creative directors 
 could really let their minds go, and the resulting worlds you trek through are absolutely gorgeous 
 to look at. Everything is bright and colorful with lots of detail. Coupling these landscapes with 
 the excellent soundtrack (the majority of which is Chopin's music) provides moments where you find 
 yourself just chilling out, checking out the scenery and relaxing to the music.
  
  Combat, however, is not relaxing and it is one of the components to the game in which it really 
 shines. Unlike many traditional JRPGs, there are NO random encounters. You will see each and every 
 monster before you fight them and how you approach the enemy will dictate the turn sequence (yes, 
 it is turn-based combat) . Approach from behind and you get the jump on them, sometimes being able 
 to beat them before they even get to take a shot at you. If you don't want to fight them you can 
 maneuver around them and keep on going, skipping them completely. In the beginning it's best to 
 fight each and every one so you can level up faster, but once you have leveled up enough you can 
 start skipping more fights.
  
  The cast of characters to fight with is fairly large - 10 in all - including Chopin himself. The 
 mix is between melee and ranged fighters, some with the ability to heal. Each character has some 
 magic ability with access to a number of spells or special powers. As you level up you gain new 
 powers. Each power is either a light or dark power and it depends on whether you are standing in 
 a lit or dark area as to which power you can use. Unleashing these powers during combat usually 
 leads to some colorful explosion of some sort on the screen and they are essential to getting through 
 the game.
  
  Tactically this game uses a system that evolves as you play. In the beginning it acts more like 
 a traditional turn-based RPG in that you can take as much time as you want to decide how to begin 
 your attack and then a meter will run down the time you have to attack within once you start. As 
 you progress you unlock new party levels which will change the tactical rules. By the end your 
 meter will begin running out as soon as your turn starts so you'd better act quick.
  
  There is also a system called "echoes" in which each strike builds up an echo meter in the lower 
 right corner. At any point you can unleash your magical attack and the higher the echo multiplier 
 is at the time the attack will be that much stronger. As you unlock the higher party levels you 
 will be able to create harmony chains which allow you to carry over the echo meter to the next 
 character to chain attacks.
  
  So that's the good stuff - fun combat, gorgeous visuals, solid RPG structure and a different and 
 interesting story. What's the bad? If you read other reviews you will see one common complaint 
 and that is regarding the game's pacing. It is sssllloooowwww... This is to be expected, it is 
 a JRPG after all, which can mean long drawn out cut scenes and long pauses in between characters 
 talking to each other. It is enough to drive you nuts sometimes, or put you to sleep. 
  
  You can skip these cut scenes but with a story this out there, you'll be really lost if you skip. 
 At different points in the game you will be treated to a photo interludes of European cities while 
 subtitles tell you the real story of Chopin's life while his music plays in the background. It's 
 a nice touch and something you don't see everyday (if you have the patience to sit through them) .
 
  
  To those achievement junkies out there, Eternal Sonata will disappoint. My first playthrough took 
 about 27 hours and I ended with 14 of 22 achievements for 170 points. If you want the rest it will 
 take an entire 2nd playthrough and defeating the two bosses in the Mysterious Union tower, which 
 will require you to level grind in order to be powerful enough to take them down. It's a good game, 
 but I wasn't about to spend another 2 weeks with it just to get the points. Maybe one day I'll 
 go back to it.
  
  If you give Eternal Sonata a chance you will find it is definitely one of the better JRPGs to hit 
 the 360, which is really saying something considering all the big name JRPG makers that have released 
 games on the console this past year. The difference is the story (which is unlike any other you're 
 likely to play for some time to come) , the solid design mechanics including the stellar combat, 
 and the eye candy you're given to stare at. It's a well made game that many will look back on and 
 point to as an example of a JRPG done differently and right. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: celtic1962
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 21, 2008 2:00 pm PT
Review:  Despite being an avid RPGer and despite the lack of RPGs for the 360 I had put off playing Eternal 
 Sonata. Part of the reason was due to not being impressed with the demo, and part was my general 
 disinterest in games that use an anime or cel shaded approach, However, based on not only favorable 
 pro reviews but also the positive opinions of many fellow gamers, I finally decided to gave the 
 game a shot.
  
  GAMEPLAY (9) - The combat in ES is a mix of real time button mashing with traditional turn based 
 decisions. This unique blend was put together very nicely and makes for enjoyable battles. The 
 combat actually has a decent amount of depth, but takes you along gradually so that you've mastered 
 all of the steps before they introduce a new concept. Monsters are seen on screen and most can 
 be easily avoided, which is helpful if you're trying to get your party to a save point or trying 
 to figure out a puzzle. Speaking of which, the save spots were never too far apart from each other 
 and thankfully there were only a couple of areas that required puzzle solving such as teleporters 
 or the dreaded "flip the switch and then go back and see if anything changed in the previous room". 
 The game is quite linear, and any branching paths usually don't go very far. I had to do very little 
 level grinding, as I found that if I generally took on any monsters in my path that would be sufficient 
 in making my party strong enough for any Boss battles.
  
  GRAPHICS (9) - I have to say this is one of the prettiest games I've played on the 360. The cel-shaded 
 characters and backgrounds were very detailed with an amazing amount of color and the game truly 
 looked like you were watching a high quality animated movie. Watching this on a large HDTV was 
 particularly impressive.
  
  SOUND (9) - The voice work for the many different characters was above average, as the English voices 
 sounded much better than what I usually hear when they are translating Japanese. Also, there is 
 the option to play it on Japanese, which I also appreciate. As you might expect from a game involving 
 Chopin the music was terrific, with many different piano and orchestra pieces.
  
  STORY/CHARACTERS (8.5) - Give the designers credit for trying something unique, basing a game around 
 Chopin's last hours on his deathbed. At times the adventure goes into familiar territory but overall 
 it keeps your interest. There is a nice mix of unique characters that have enough personality to 
 be memorable, both in your party as well as some of the enemies.
  
  VALUE (8.5) - By the time I finished the game I had put in approximately 40 hours, though that 
 did include time spent in an optional dungeon. Had I skipped the dungeon I probably could have 
 finished this game in closer to 35 hours. This may seem short for an RPG but keep in mind that 
 I did not really need to spend any time level grinding or backtracking, two things that can artificially 
 extend the playing time of many other RPGs. I felt the time spent was quite sufficient. There is 
 an incentive to replay the game as there are some achievements that can only be obtained by playing 
 the game a second time.
  
  SUMMARY - This is the third JRPG I've played on the 360, Blue Dragon and Enchanted Arms being the 
 other two, and Eternal Sonata is unquestionably the best of the three. The presentation was doen 
 so well and the combat was so much fun that it converted a gamer such as myself that generally 
 isn't interested in anime style games. I highly recommend this to anyone that has an interest in 
 Japanese style RPGs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: clydeknightwind
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 17, 2008 8:08 pm PT
Review:  I'll make this one short and sweet. This game has one of the most amazing storylines ever, and 
 I mean E V E R!!! Why? Cause is comes from an insane angle, the dream of a famous composer in a 
 coma on his deathbed. I mean, who would have EVER thought of that one!?!? The artwork is breathtaking. 
 The soundtrack, which includes music by Chopin, is moving. I spent hours just listening to the 
 songs. The battle system is fun, easy to learn, hard to master, and innovative in the right ways, 
 a perfect concoction. The characters are excellent along with their voice actors, which I have 
 to say is a relief because voice acting has turned to utter crap with most of the games I've played 
 lately. I loved this game. It should be rereleased with major advertisements so people know about 
 it. This will always be one of my personal favorites, and I can't say that for any other game on 
 the 360, ps3, or wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hhh34c
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 17, 2008 12:27 am PT
Review:  Hey everyone, just got back with the retail version of the game so I thought I'd give some first 
 impressions of the full version.
  
  This is definitely a jrpg through and through. The cut-scenes are plentiful and a good length, 
 and the voice acting is decent but nothing too amazing. The best so far is Chopin by a long-shot, 
 his voice work is done very well. Beat and Alegretto actually bring up the rear so far, a little 
 different from what I expected after playing the demo.
  
  The combat is great! It really does evolve as your party levels, making you think faster, giving 
 you more options (blocks, counterattacks, echoes, harmony chains, multiple special skill slots, 
 etc.) Light and Dark elements on the battle field play more of a role than you may think, and positioning 
 your characters while under a time limit is fun and challenging.
  
  The graphics, of course, are amazing, and so far everything is handled well, though there is not 
 much subtlety to the "issues" the characters speak about, obviously relating to our own modern 
 world. Personally, I'm all about that kind of stuff so I just love it, but I can see how some people 
 may think the dialogue is a bit too heavy at parts.
  
  So all in all, a solid rpg experience (so far) that seems just a tad strained in the plot department, 
 though nothing game-breaking and you must keep in mind this supposedly all takes place in a dream. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tainshy
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 15, 2008 10:28 am PT
Review:  So I was unsure at first about Eternal Sonata, it looked very childish, once I played it however 
 it was amazing. The graphics are awesome with beautiful scenery and the characters are also great 
 for the game. Some of the voices may get annoying, but since the some characters are 8 years old 
 they're bound to have childish voices. The game story is great and by the end you will really care 
 for the characters especially Polka, Frederic and Allegretto. The other characters add to the game. 
 The battle system is just right as it has repetitive combos but the echo chains and large amount 
 of character special moves means you can really mix it up. The game requires 2 playthroughs and 
 the 1st is quite easy but,2nd time round it can be challenging in some parts. The music is vital 
 to the game and is great to listen to.
  
  The game is perfection as if the story dragged on for 3-4 discs i would of hated it because I can't 
 see how it could be improved. Well worth a purchase !!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Quinzark
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 15, 2008 6:47 am PT
Review:  This game for me was a breath of fresh air. I've been a fan of this style RPG since I bought a 
 copy of FF7 years ago (Actually i thought it was a fighting game *shame*)
  I instantly fell in love with it & found all the earlier games. I also bought the breath of Fire 
 series, Saga frontier & numerous other turn based RPG's. So i know a good one when i play it. Lately 
 a lot of them have let me down. Blue dragon was good but i got bored towards the end. FF12 was 
 the 2nd FF title i haven't bothered to replay (we don't talk about X-2) & Lost Odyssey although 
 a wonderful game just wasn't as much fun. 
  This game is fun!
  Not really innovative. Not overly unique. Not over textured, just fun to play & cute to look at. 
 
  This is what i look for in a turn-based RPG.
  The story is pretty standard but i enjoy playing the game. 
  I will play this game again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thiagofali
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 14, 2008 5:15 am PT
Review:  Eternal Sonata is a game that will allure your eyes and inebriate your ears with a great selection 
 of Chopin pieces. The graphics are so rich, it seems that you could touch and feel the fabrics, 
 clothes and scenery. The texture and art work is just exceptional.
  
  The story is a bit confusing. It is a dream world, mixing reality of Chopin's life and his death 
 bed dream. Until then, nothing wrong or bad. But when it starts to lose itself in concepts of what 
 is right or wrong, or how you should live your life to be in the good side... In other words, it 
 starts to sound patronising. 
  
  Nevertheless, this game has the power to capture your attention and you will want to see it through. 
 Its level of difficulty helps, because, compared to other RPGs, it is rather easy to finish. My 
 party never perished in battle. And I did not spend hours leveling up. I did not avoid many battles 
 though. 
  
  In conclusion, this game is worth playing. But be aware that its sweetness can taste bitter sometimes... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Scratcholic
Rating: 5.5
Date: Sep 8, 2008 10:37 am PT
Review:  this game will teach you how to become stupid...
  
  this game teaches you how to ask the same silly questions over and over again yet still feeling 
 intellectual about yourself...
  
  this game makes chopin looks alike a fool, or is he? 
  
  this game's concept is witty however, its fantasy should have limited its level of silliness... the 
 dialogues are long and boring, not much of entertainment (apart from being stupid) and it wastes 
 your time even beyond the likes of Lost Odyssey... i mean it takes about 3 - 5 seconds for the characters 
 to respond to the others (are they all just stoned? kids shouldn't be...) and the questions/answers 
 in the dialogues are usually 'why is... i don't know... but... so... it seems... all right, let's go...' 
 you might as well watch east enders for the rest of your life and you will still be intellectual 
 according to this game...
  
  I can barely watch the cut scene in japanese... don't even want to image the amount of cheese it 
 has when its in english with US accent...
  
  still, the gameplay, combat, graphics and audio makes up for the silly cut scene... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HollowShinigami
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 31, 2008 9:20 pm PT
Review:  ... The deck pretty much says everything.
  
  I'll just leave the rest of this review to your imagination.
  
  (...)
  
  (... Okay, I'll 
 seriously review it, now.)
  
  
  Eternal Sonata has fairly decent graphics, flashy skills, probably one of the best action/turn-based 
 hybrid combat systems I've seen, and a great story centered around Frdric Chopin's life.
  
  Yeah, a story based around Chopin. That's pretty much the first thing that I said; "What the 
 hell!?" But trust me, it's executed very well... good voice acting also helps to sell it.. 
  Essentially, it only recently occurred to me as I was looking through the history of Chopin's life -- many 
 of the places in the game; where he is essentially near death -- well, many of them are events that 
 actually happened in his life. Such as the war between two nations in the game -- many of the references 
 can be noted, showing similarities between Poland and Russia. It'll become clear in the game, assuming 
 you play it.
  
  I think the next most important thing is probably the combat system... and while I've seen its 
 like before, never before has it been executed this well. Essentially, you button-mash when you're 
 in range of an enemy, and have only so much time to do so. This action allows your combo meter 
 to build, allowing you to do more powerful attacks... 
  You get the idea -- and most of the powerful attacks are very flashy, and bring about near-instantaneous 
 death to regular monsters, when the combo meter is maxed.
  
  Oh, and if you don't like cel-shaded / anime-style graphics, you likely won't like this game. The 
 voice acting is adequate -- it's quite good in some parts, but in others, you want to freaking jab 
 a pencil into your ear to make the noise stop.
  
  Anyway, my final verdict on Eternal Sonata -- you have GOT to try this game. If you want an incredibly 
 fast-paced action RPG, do NOT -- I repeat -- NOT buy this game (Fable II comes out in October, 
 wait 'til then) . If you want a more interactive variation of a turn-based RPG, that requires more 
 effort than pressing a button -- more effort like slamming a button into your controller 300 times 
 in 5 seconds -- then you'll likely enjoy this game.
  
  Bottom line, play this game for its storyline, content, and combat system... but most import of 
 all, PLAY THIS GAME. However, you may want to keep some earplugs handy, or tinker with the dub 
 settings, possibly changing the language into Japanese or something more bearable. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: roseice
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 31, 2008 7:28 pm PT
Review:  Right off the bat, Eternal Sonata impressed me. Well, I'm sure I speak for everyone by saying that. 
 The graphics and general designs, including characters, are all stunning and a real treat to look 
 at. The story from the start leads you on, and you think you'll end up very immersed in the game 
 and grow attached to the adorable characters. 
  
  But anyone who has played the game knows that the adventure is cut short far sooner than any of 
 us would like, and unfortunately there doesn't seem to be enough left to work with for a sequel. 
 
  
  The story is Eternal Sonata's weak point. It jumps from place to place, and sometimes you hardly 
 know what's going on. The characters by the end of the game have been with each other for a long 
 time, but you only get their time together in segments. This is shown by how sometimes scenes open 
 to a couple weeks later, and it feels as though things are being cut out. For better examples, 
 "When did she start feeling 'this' way?" or "How have they been together long enough to be such 
 good friends?" I'm big on characters and their development, so that cut was a disappointment for 
 me. 
  
  The villians also had a lot of potential, but recieved a severe lack of "screentime". Most of them 
 just appeared and then we killed them, aside from the big baddie, Waltz, who you get aquainted 
 with in several random scenes as he discusses good ways to make his people suffer with his various 
 lackies. But in the end, when your party actually meets this coldhearted and selfish ruler, he 
 recieves the same uneventful end as the others did. Ahh yes, in my opinion even villians need a 
 little character development and importance in a game.
  
  Overlooking that and the numerous plotholes in this very short story, the game itself obviously 
 shines. My favourite aspect besides the graphics was the great battle system. It flowed wonderfully 
 and there was a lot to like about it. This is how turn-based battles should be carried out, without 
 a doubt. I never got sick of the system, or the eye candy you get from the very shiny and awesome 
 looking abilities. Combined with Harmory Chains, it made the system feel exciting and fast-paced.
 
  
  This game is also, I found, very easy. I had to do very little leveling up myself, and the lack 
 of random battles was superb. Trekking through dungeons was never a pain or frustrating... in fact 
 I only recall one that was actually hard. They're all designed beautifully as well, so you never 
 get bored of taking in the scenery. 
  
  The music added even more to this already way too lovely game. I'm familiar with the composer, 
 Motoi Sakuraba, and I've heard his music in a lot of video games. His work in Eternal Sonata is 
 simply outstanding, I can't say there was a track I disliked. Definitely one of my favourite video 
 game soundtracks.
  
  To end, I'd recommend this one to any owner of an Xbox 360 who likes RPGs; it was definitely an 
 enjoyable game to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IAMSHAWN
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 31, 2008 10:18 am PT
Review:  The Graphics in this game are phenomenal. I Mean Phenomenal. Really. The Battle System is great 
 and makes a lot of sesne. but after #2 the party levels start to feel like downgrades rather than 
 up. The Storyline aint the best but its still like a 6.5 and is probably the games weak point. 
 and you wont even notice it unless you stop to think or write about the game. Actually the games 
 real weak point is the history lessons it gives u every once and a while. Thank god they are skippable. 
 Ignore them and you easily have an 8 or more. If I had to choose 1 rpg on the 360 this would be... 
 ok probably not. but it is waaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaay better than enchanted arms. Like Way Better. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zh666
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 22, 2008 12:35 pm PT
Review:  I had alot of fun with Eternal Sonata.. for the first two chapters. I was expecting a game that 
 started off with a couple main characters, and then you followed through with them til the end. 
 That did not happen. My fondest memories of this game will forever be with the first couple chapters, 
 that is before the game turn into a total mess with me. That is when you had a solid group of likeable 
 characters with a goal. At the end of the 2nd chapter you're met with your 6th playable character. 
 You would think that would be it, but no more than a few minutes after you recruit her, you gain 
 3 more freaking characters that pretty much changes the game from them on. Eternal Sonata was only 
 a 25 hour game, and thats not enough time to flesh out any characteristics of that many characters. 
 They try, and ultimately fail with me. 
  
  One of my biggest beefs with the game was how there wasn't a main character at all. This was fine 
 with Final Fantasy III, it's different for this game. Eternal Sonata is a very short game, and 
 when your supposedly main characters, Chopin, Polka and Gretto, not even have any lines during 
 an entire chapter, then there's something wrong. After chapter 2 Chopin pretty much becomes a background 
 character until the final chapter. Gretto is your avatar when you're walking around in towns, much 
 like Vaan in Final Fantasy 12, but he seems more a secondary character.. ok that sounds alot like 
 Vaan too. Polka is probably the most important character, since she's the first character you're 
 introduced, and she has the most important plot points. However, she also becomes a background 
 character near the middle the game, and then shine at the end. The pacing is just really really 
 off in this game.
  
  Besides how they messed up a good idea, I did enjoy the battle system at first, but it became tedious 
 after a while. Eternal Sonata was also painfully linear, much worse than Final Fantasy X. It was 
 also extremely easy as well, MAYBE easier than Blue Dragon. It's close.
  
  I did enjoy the graphical style alot, despite the lack of anything truly impressive. The dungeons 
 were big and explorable (but the respawning enemies gave me little incentive to explore) . Overall, 
 Eternal Sonata is a fairly average game that had alot of promise but ultimately failed. This is 
 coming from a guy that LOVED Baten Kaitos and Radiata Stories. Trust me, I WANTED to like this 
 game, but it just didn't live up to it's potential.
  
  ----------Battle System ----------
  Eternal Sonata is a mixture of Turn-based and action RPG. Turns are determined by the character 
 or monster with the highest speed. Once your character's turn is up, you are given a set amount 
 of time to act. First I need to explain party levels before I get into all of that. Your party 
 gains levels after certain spots in the game, and you can't revert back to previous levels either. 
 Levels increase your sack to carrying items, it increase your running speed, but it also decreases 
 your act time and your "tactical time". Tactical Time is the time when your turn starts and before 
 your make your first act. Tactical Time gives you a chance to rest and plan your next move, however, 
 the game is painfully easy so you'll never worry about Tactical time. The second you move or act, 
 your Tactical Time is over and then your "Act" time has started. This gives you between 4-5 seconds 
 of pure action. You can use an item, attack or use a special ability. With each attack you make, 
 you gain a little bit of "time" bonus, so if you normally attack, you'll gain fight longer than 
 4-5 seconds. Special attacks don't increase your time though. 
  
  Another feature in the battle system is the "echo system". This echo system is a way to build up 
 for powerful special moves. Each time you attack a monster, you built up more and more echo power. 
 When you want, you can then unleash a powerful attack. 
  
  All and all, the turn-based mixed with Action based is kinda cool.. for about a minute. There really 
 isn't any strategy involved in a game like this. All monsters have the same tactics, same weakness'. 
 The only strategy you need to do is hit A, A, A, A, A, A then Y until a monster dies. This is a repetitive 
 battle system and can get really old. Atleast in Tales of... games the battles are quick. You gain 
 special abilities over time through your levels. You can equip up to 4 special abilities per-character. 
 The coolest thing about this game is a how Light / Dark areas on the battle field effect how your 
 enemies behave and how your special attacks work.
  
  For example, you have to equip 2 Light attacks and 2 Dark attacks. If you're standing in a shadow, 
 and then attack with your special move, then you'll use a Dark attack. Simple as that. The monsters 
 are effected as well. They even can completely change. If a monster runs into a light, it might 
 turn into a weaker version of itself, or possibly a stronger version. It's a pretty need gimmick, 
 although nothing that anyone will remember fondly of. 
  
  One of the most annoying things about this game is the dungeons. While I liked their layouts, I 
 HATED how each time you pan to a new section of a dungeon all the monsters you defeated respawn 
 instantly. This SUCKS if you're trying to explore and need to backtrack. While monsters are all 
 visible, much like Grandia or Tales of.., they're NOT easy to run away from. Most dungeon and field 
 screens have very small corridors or lands, you can't run around most monsters.
  
  
  ----------Characters / Story ----------
  The world of Eternal Sonata is a figment of an imagination 
 in the crazy mind of Frederik Chopin. Chopin is on his deathbed in the real world, but he's also 
 alive and feel in his fantasy world. He knows it's all a dream, but there's nothing he can do about 
 it, so he hooks up with Polka, a young flower girl trying to stop the government crazy tax problem. 
 On the way to the castle, Polka and Chopin meet Gretto and Beat, who are also on a similar adventure. 
 What the group doesn't realize is the two power nations of Forte and ___ are on the verge of war, 
 and they're in the middle of it.
  
  Eternal Sonata is a strange game, but also pretty typical in a sense. The strangest thing is there's 
 no main character in the game. There's a couple important characters but there's no main focus. 
 This reminds me alot of Final Fantasy III for the SNES. Another strange thing is the fact that 
 your entire world is based off a crazy dream that the famous pianist / composer Fredrick Chopin 
 is having on his death bed. However, if you take away this crazy plot point, Eternal Sonata is 
 still just a typical JRPG at heart. 
  
  That's not a big problem with me, because I love light-hearted Japanese style RPGs, but I won't 
 Eternal Sonata off to easily though. I still wasn't a big fan of the pacing of the game. I really 
 hated how many characters joined your team. I REALLY hated when they split your team up during 
 chapters. The game was painfully linear, and when characters leave and re-join your team 100 times 
 during the course of the game, it gets really annoying. 
  
  
  ----------Graphics ----------
  I have mixed feelings about the graphics. I'll start with the good. 
 The colors on this game are extremely vibrate and will make your eyes bleed, in a good way. I love 
 the character models, each character are carefully detailed. The characters have very weird postures 
 while standing and acting scenes, but I think I like it. It's weird to me how they stand like they're 
 dueling in a spaghetti western. 
  
  I also like the large confusing dungeons (for the most part) but here's where I also step into 
 the bad side of things. Outside of the cutscenes and character models, everything else looks like 
 a later PS2 game, Grandia III for example. The towns, the dungeons, the enemy models, just about 
 everything else doesn't look any better than Grandia III. Grandia III looked awesome though. Another 
 huge complaint is just the lack of enemies. You might run into 3 or 4 enemy types per-dungeon at 
 the most, but most often you'll just fight the same 2 monsters over and over again for an entire 
 dungeon until you reach a boss.
  
  One complaint I hear alot about that didn't really bother me was the fact that weapons and armor 
 doesn't change on your character when you equip them. It never really bugged me much and with 10 
 characters in your party it would be confusing if your characters kept changing over time. Keeping 
 a signature cloth style makes them icon, much like a Superhero or cartoon character. 
  
  ----------Sound ----------
  The sound is pretty amazing. The voice work is excellent. The character's 
 all have battle cries during special moves, and have catch phrases before and maybe after a battle 
 too, just like Tales of games. I love when games do that.
  
  The music is excellent of course, since the game is based around Fredrick Chopin, there's alot 
 of classy piano pieces, some opera inspired tunes, and typical Japanese RPG style techno-fantasy 
 stuff. Eternal Sonata is made by the same people that did the music to Baten Kaitos, and it really 
 shows. The main battle theme could easily be mistaken for the main theme to the original Baten 
 Kaitos. With the start of each chapter in the game, you are treated with a new Chopin piece plus 
 a small biography on his life. So I guess that's cool.
  
  ----------World Map ----------
  There isn't a world map, there isn't even a final warp function or anything that can help you travel 
 between lands in a jiffy. The game is just a linear flowing screens of fields, towns and dungeons. 
 Without any kind of over view map of any kind you really have no sense how big the world is. Since 
 the game only has 2 or 3 real towns, and just a handful of dungeons, you get a sense that the world 
 is super small. 
  
  ----------Time to Complete Game ----------
  24:32:23
  
  You can save clear data after you completed the game to create a New Game+ file. The ending was 
 fantastic, probably one of the best endings to a game I've sat through in a very long time, makes 
 grinding through this game almost worth it. When I say the ending is long, I mean it. It's so long 
 there is 2 credit scenes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xBLACK-MAGEx
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 16, 2008 9:48 pm PT
Review:  okay lets get this out of the way right now. if you love rpgs you cannot go wrong with this game. 
 its got almost everything you need for a great and whimsical experience. It will make you laugh, 
 cry, sigh, gasp, hop... and sometimes dance... :O... anyway.
  
  Graphics:10
  WARNING. never ever play this game high. im serious. if this game had any more damn color, just 
 looking at the screen would give you a seizure followed by epileptic brain trauma. that aside this 
 game is damn beautiful, even when your not drunk! if windwaker is like playing a cartoon, then 
 this is like playing a damn beautiful cartoon.
  
  story/characters:?
  im not going to rate this. the story is a mess, i have to say. its good, bad and damn confusing, 
 not because its too complicated in any capacity, but its like watching the matrix with all the 
 scenes about neo being the "one" taken out, and suddenly hes stopping bullets.
  
  game play: Yeeeeehaw 8.
  cross grandia 2, tales of the abyss ( or w/e other tales) and star ocean... and 
 maybe guitar hero for the rythym and you have your battles. kill your enemies with the beat of 
 your sword! regardless of my castrated description, it really is fun.
  
  verdict: 8.5. 
  if your looking for the next Tolkien meets ff7 story look somewhere else. take this game with a 
 musical whimsical grain of salt and you will have fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Whisker-Dude
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 8, 2008 10:01 am PT
Review:  When I first heard about Eternal Sonata I was surprised. Mainly because it tells the story of Chopin, 
 who happens to be one of my favorite classical pianists, and his final dream right before he dies. 
 It may not sound like something to make a game about, but I was greatly impressed by how amazing 
 this game is.
  
  Like stated above the story revolves around 3 characters mainly: Polka, a 14 year old who is on 
 the brink of death, but nonetheless keeps a bright outlook on life, Chopin, a pianist who is on 
 the brink of death also, and Allegretto, a 16 year old boy who finds the good in pretty much everyone. 
 These aren't the only characters however, as there are many more, but these are the main three 
 that have to do with the story. Without these guys the story would suck. Anyway, as you progress 
 through the story your main goal is to stop the evil Count Waltz who is using Mineral Powder to 
 make asuper army of mindless freaks. These people taking the powder think that they are being cured, 
 but in reality they are closer to death. Your goal is to stop the production of mineral powder. 
 Yup. The entire story revolves around that main goal, but many other things happen as you try to 
 achieve that goal. 
  
  Gameplay is pretty much standard for an RPG. You go from place to place, visiting towns and various 
 other area while fighting enemies along the way. Eventually you hit a few boss battles and that's 
 prety much it. It may sound boring, but it is done in a spectacular way. There are no random battles. 
 You can actually see you enemies and chose to fight them or not. You can't just run away from every 
 battle though, or you may find yourself in many game overs. The Battles themselves are one of my 
 favorite parts of the game. It is like some sort of hybrid Turn Based/ Real time battle system. 
 Whenever your turn comes up, you have a limited amount of time to move and attack. During this time, 
 no one else moves and youc an basically wail on your enemy. You have regular attacks and special 
 attacks. The specials are strong, but they take up more time than regular ones. Also, whenever 
 an enemy is attacking you can use a well timed block to lower damage, and at a higher party level 
 you can counter attack. This system worked extremely well, but on occasion I did find some of the 
 fights a bit easy. Towards the second half of the game you can maybe get 10000+ damage done per 
 person. However, the attacks are all awesome and there are many different combinations of Special 
 and regular attacks you can do. Outside of battle, you do the standard exploring and Talking to 
 people. You can play little songs with other people to earn some items and you can sell photos 
 taken in battle for alot of gold. However this made getting some of the items way too easy. One 
 thing I didn't like was the lack of Side Quests. There were maybe one or 2, but the story is very 
 linear, so don't expect to spend a good 40 hours in this game. That's pretty much it in the gameplay 
 aspect. Just be prepared for alot of interesting battles.
  
  Graphics wise, this game is brilliant. In my opinion even though the Cartoony style art didn't 
 match up witht the almost dark story, they had a bit of charm to em. You couldn't help, but smile 
 at them. Some people may not like the stlye, but that's their beef. The loandscapes are pretty 
 good and the enemies are pretty cool looking. There actually also are very few loading screens 
 that last longer than a second. That is really something for an RPG on the 360. 
  
  Sound is where this game really excells. The entire musical score is one of the most interesting 
 soundtracks I have heard in awhile. The Piano music of Chopin that was selected was amazing. The 
 Voice acting was actually pretty well done. The character's voices weren't extremly annoying or 
 anything of that sorts.
  
  Overall, this is a great RPG for the 360 that may not look like it, but it has one hell of a story 
 and the gameplay to back it up. While it is a bit easy, you can get a good 22 hours out of a single 
 runthrough in the game. Eternal Sonata combines two of the best things: Music and Video games, 
 and combines them to form a wonderful Masterpiece on the XBOX 360. Anyone who loves games should 
 definitely check it out. Unless you hate cartoony style graphics. However, it is a great game, 
 nonetheless. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: persian_knight
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 2, 2008 10:32 am PT
Review:  i really enjoyed this game and have never played a game quite like
  
  story: this has one of the best stories i have ever seen and it made me cry once or twice so get 
 the tissues ready near the end and it makes you think aswell 
  
  this game also has a great story becuase once you complete it you can play through again and its 
 different which makes it feel new 
  
  the battle sytem is really fun and always feels different and can sometimes get quite challenging 
 i also like how you use different moves depending on whether your in the light or shadow which 
 helps the battle keep its complexity but also makes it easy to understand 
  
  it also has alot of customization like picking which characters you level up and who gets the best 
 weps out of your party
  
  it also has great graphics that make it look like a real fantasy type world which is great and 
 gets you thinking that it is all fun and games
  
  but the bad thing is that you can easliy buy every item in the game and are never short of money 
 my taking photos all you have do is take photos or rare creatures or bosses and get like 1 mill 
 after you sell it
  
  the music is also quite good and goes great with the games style
  
  there is also alot of unlockables and a large range of charaters such two smalls sisters that 
 look the same apart from hair colour to a a really cool guy with a huge sword
  
  i highly recommend you play this game but it does has some really puzzling elements to it like 
 getting through a dungeon making sure you press the right buttons but still it only took me 20 
 hors to do the first story mode and i cant really bothered to do the second but if you get into 
 this game you will love every minute like i did 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nawras
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 31, 2008 1:04 am PT
Review:  YAYS
  - awesome art direction and music
  - great battle system
  - lovable characters
  
  NAYS
  - too linear
  - simple, predictable main story
  
  Eternal Sonata came to me as 
 a surprisingly refreshing RPG unlike any other I have played. Never before have I enjoyed a battle 
 system in an RPG as much as this nor have I been completely at awe at the wonderfully crazy and 
 wildly imagined world.
  
  The premise of the game is that composer Chopin is in his final moments in life and is experiencing 
 a vivid dream, a journey where he has to find himself. The game takes place in that dream.
  
  The story isn't archaic and is completely predictable. Count Waltz - who is the evil guy from 
 the get-go and is dressed as such - is using the synthetic and cheaper mineral powder instead of 
 floral natural powder to brainwash the populace into mindless soldiers. There are no surprises 
 in the story, or twists and turns, and any that are present you see them coming from a mile away.
 
  
  But it isn't that story that is the focal point of Eternal Sonata. Rather, it is the individual 
 story of each character and how they all weave together to form their complex relationships with 
 each other. The characters are lovable and this is one of the few RPGs where I am not annoyed by 
 any character. The personalities are distinct, clearly defined, and great to boot. They don't all 
 fall into the cliche character types and those who initially do round up well by the end of the 
 game.
  
  Chopin's self discovery takes him into probably the wildest experience you will ever have. The 
 game eases you in on the craziness but rest assured, no matter how imaginative the current place 
 is, the next one is multitudes greater in magnificence. It gets too crazy but beautiful by the 
 time you reach the final two chapters, but it isn't crazy you'd want to end anytime soon.
  
  The art direction is simply superb just as the music. The world is literally breathing with 
 life and creativity. The ambient lighting and the particle effects, from flower petals in the air 
 to firebugs to snowflakes are always filling the screen. The game world is rich and vibrant with 
 other details too. Grasslands roll on hills in a dynamic way and it feels like a tour of Switzerland 
 at times. Cities are packed with details; the buildings' exterior and interior boast an astronomical 
 amount of details you would wonder how much time the designers spent creating each room. All pieces 
 of cloths and textiles have patterns and stitches - and they're all unique - and all objects have 
 similar fine detail. Often you would just enter a room and there is so much to take in you'd sit 
 idle for a minute or two to take it all in. Heck, even barren stretches of nothingness are detailed 
 as well.
  
  Did I mention great music? It's a trick in RPGs to make a musical score that suits every city and 
 situation. Battle music is especially critical since it is the most you hear of. Thankfully, the 
 music in Eternal Sonata isn't just good, it is phenomenal. It is so phenomenal that while I was 
 playing my family thought I was listening to e genuine piece of musical orchestra.
  
  But all this fantasy world and creativity aside, how does the game actually deliver in terms of 
 gameplay? Thankfully, the battle system is one of the best in any RPG to date.
  
  The best thing about the battle system is that it evolves over time. It eases you in while you 
 play. There are party levels, and each time you finish a portion of the game, your party level 
 increases, and the battle system changes to become more complex. It is a great way to keep you 
 on your toes as well as offer variety. Certainly, playing the same way for 40+ hours in any other 
 RPG will drive you nuts (FFVIII gamers know this best) . In Eternal Sonata, battles are evolving.
 
  
  Initially, battles are a mix of real time and turn based. Each character has a turn to play, but 
 when that turn comes, you can do anything you want. Basically, the rule is that each character 
 has a certain number of seconds to execute their commands. It can be anything from roaming about 
 the battle field, to attacking, to casting spells, to using items, and a combination of all of 
 those when you have time. You can for instance, run to an enemy, pound it a couple of times and 
 end it with a party healing spell.
  
  The battles get more complex as more rules are added. For instance, the tactical time (thinking 
 time before the action time starts) gets lower and eventually is eliminated. You also get abilities 
 to guard against attacks and eventually counterattack - and both are tricky to execute. You also 
 eventually will be able to take more items on the battle field, execute stringed combos and stringed 
 special attacks and use different special attacks.
  
  Add to that the fact that there are dark and light attacks and you get a pretty complex system. 
 Your characters attack differently in the shadows or in the sun and so do enemies, and some weapons 
 react differently here and there. With some magic/items that cast darkness/light around you/others 
 and enemies and characters having their shadows, things get really complex.
  
  But thankfully, this isn't all thrown at you from the start. Like I said, the game slowly eases 
 you in, and as soon as you are comfortable with a battle element, the game adds another to make 
 it more complex. This evolving battle system works wonderful and adds even more variety to the 
 gameplay.
  
  While unfortunately the linear gameplay ends the game way too soon - at 30 hours - the game's characters 
 and warmth and love will stay with you. Rest assured this is one of the best RPGs you will play 
 in terms of visuals, music, personal story and battle system. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jimmulvaney
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 25, 2008 8:34 am PT
Review:  I was in the middle of a dilemma, after finishing GTA IV and anxiously awaiting Saints Row 2, I 
 had an epiphany. I grew up playing RPGs, so when was the last...? Fable TLC? I was way over due 
 for a lengthy story line! Then I found out why. All in all none of the recent 'RPGs' (and I use 
 that term loosely) caught my attention except for Eternal Sonata and Lost Odyssey. Sure there have 
 been plenty of valid attempts at a great RPG and IMO Bioshock was the closest. But I need an RPG 
 with something special to offer. The dynamic character design; complete with aging and battle scars, 
 of Fable was a crowning achievement! So who has set the bar since then? Let me tell you...
  
  Since I feel like ending on a good note, we can start with the bad followed by the ugly. First 
 of all the story is linear... VERY linear, there are no choices to be made what so ever. None of 
 the inventory has an effect on the appearance of your party. The dungeons are rather small and 
 linear themselves and yes it does fall under the formal RPG definition of a 'Dungeon' meaning; 
 it is a maze with enemies, treasures and puzzles, as well as a predetermined entrance, exit and 
 boss that has to be slain to further your adventure. The battles are not played in real time, they 
 are turn based... I have to admit that I am wracking my brain to come up with negative issues, 
 but only one of them really stood out to me and I call it The Ugly!
  
  Picture this, you have just annihilated a nasty forest boar, one of your first real bosses to fight 
 in the game (The Bread Gang from Retto and Beat's time in the sewer were a joke not a boss battle.) 
 then there is this beautiful FMV sequence based around these flowers that glow when they bloom 
 at night because during the day they close up and absorb all of the sunlight. Granted, it is in 
 2-D it still looks amazing, breath taking even, and a very intriguing part of the story is revealed. 
 Then it fades to black and a stock image of a centuries old flat from some place in Europe is cut 
 into the screen, then some soft piano music fades in followed by ... SUBTITLES! WTF!?
  After what I just experienced, you drop my butt back behind a school desk and force me to watch... 
 nay... READ through a discovery channel episode on Chopin's life?!? Here is the worse part, it 
 gives you 2 lines to read at a time and moves at its own; very slow, pace. After watching the first 
 one I was weary of killing anymore bosses or furthering the story, just so I didn't have to sit 
 through that again. Folks, this happens throughout the ENTIRE game. Until Chopin finally dies! 
 My advice? press start, and choose skip. yes, you do in fact miss a small chunk of the game's storyline 
 as well, but you can piece the thing together as you continue on. If you are really interested 
 in Chopin's life story then read about it in the start menu. I did.
  Now for the Good.
  There is so much good to be found in this title. Very Quickly here...
  
  Visuals: Un-Freaking-Believable 
 with a Flash 2-D style to them.
  
  Game Play: Refreshing, to just go through a game and not worry about the outcome based on your 
 choices? 
  
  Character Development: Well Defined. I actually felt for some of these characters. Not too many 
 stats for you to take into consideration all at once, but still requires strategy.
  
  Battle: Turn based, again refreshing, not too stressful at all.
  
  Use of Magic: slightly complex, 
 but it kept your attention at all times. What with the button sequences and such.
  
  Story: Interesting to say the least! Dream vs. reality, the incorporation of music into almost 
 everything. Educational as well.
  
  Difficulty: Just right, beat it once, then play through a second time for a good challenge.
  
 
  After everything is said and done, Eternal Sonata was the most fresh, inspiring, stimulating experience 
 I have ever had on the 360. Kind of took me back to the days of Breath of Fire and Chrono Trigger. 
 Now i have another problem... Fable2, Saints Row2, or Lost Odyssey...? hmmm....? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shizmonke
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 25, 2008 12:20 am PT
Review:  Eternal Sonata is a typical JRPG with gorgeous cel-shaded graphics, and a unique combat system. 
 First of all... If you don't like JRPGs stop reading this review, because this game will do nothing 
 to change your mind. On the other hand if you do like them you might find quite a few things to 
 like in this game. Let me break it down for you....
  
  
  
  Graphics: The graphics are beautifully done in this game the Art design they choose gives the game 
 an undeniable charm and that really draws you into the game. The graphics make everything you do 
 and everywhere you go just look amazing. The great thing is that there are no texture pop in or 
 screen tearing to be seen. Something that seems to be becoming a standard for today's games. Now 
 the one of the problems is the great graphics are one of its biggest downfalls because you cant 
 control the camera which means you cant really look around. Which you will want to. and the new 
 armor and weapons that you obtain never change the look of your characters at all. Its annoying 
 because you notice these thing due to how great the graphics are.
  
  Sound: The game itself is based around the famous composer Frederic Chopin's final dream before 
 he dies. So you can expect there to be an amazing musical score which there is. The game is really 
 kinda based around the music. In between chapters it actually gives you a breakdown of Chopin's 
 life and some of the meanings behind his songs not only that, but you can actually find music scores 
 and play them with people you encounter on your adventures. So needless to say the music is fantastic.
 
  
  
  
  Gameplay: Now this is where the game kinda slows down. As this game is an rpg I feel it necessary 
 to dock points due to the fact that the story is not very good. Without giving to much away towards 
 the end the story just spirals out of control leaving you to wonder what in the world just happened, 
 and it really ends making no sense at all making you think maybe something was lost in the translation. 
 Although one saving grace of the story is charming characters, but thats it. Not only is the story 
 terrible, but the game is so linear its sad. You have one path to follow the entire game with a 
 few treasure chest hidden along the way. If you even try exploring expect quite a few invisible 
 walls. Now as far the combat goes it is actually done pretty well. Its action turn based I guess 
 you would call it. Each characters gets their turn and their turn they have a few seconds to attack, 
 use their special, or use an item. and when its the opponents turn you have to defend which requires 
 you to guard or even counter attack. Problem is this combat does not take to much strategy its 
 pretty much all about timing your moves right, but nonetheless i enjoyed the combat. Its what kept 
 me playing.
  
  Fun Factor: The Game was pretty fun while it lasted ( and if your counting thats about 25 hours) , 
 but it has little to no replay value, and the only thing that kept the gameplay fresh to me was 
 the combat (which was pretty good actually)
  
  In conclusion its a typical JRPG with a few tweaks to the combat and a terrible story. JRPG Fans 
 check this one out. Everyone else don't bother.
  
  Graphics: 8
  
  Sound: 8.5
  
  Gameplay: 6.5
  
  Fun Factor: 7
  
  Final Score: 7.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zgreenwell
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 23, 2008 10:08 am PT
Review:  Eternal Sonata is a Japanese RPG that does a great job within its genre, but probably wont make 
 any converts. It succeeds in making a fun and compelling battle system and has a 10 playable character, 
 all of which are unique and fun to play. Also, the graphics and music are both beautiful. However, 
 despite all that it does right it isn't quite enough to make up for the mess this game tries to 
 pass off as a story.
  
  When you first turn on ES, you'll be very impressed by the quality of the graphic. They are cell-shaded, 
 very colorful, and extremely well done. Every graphical aspect of the game has been given a good 
 amount of attention and some of the still could be hung in an art museum. Of course all of this 
 is even more impressive in motion as the animations show the same level of polish.
  
  In ES, the enemies are visible on the map and fights can be easily avoided. While that is definitely 
 appreciated, the greatest joy in the game comes in the battle system. The game is turned based, 
 when a character gets a turn they're given a certain amount of time to perform their actions. There 
 is no MP and you're free to preform a special move at any time, however your moves are more powerful 
 the more regular attacks you land before using them. The game limits your fighting ability by only 
 allowing your party to carry a limited amount of items into battle. These items must be set up 
 before the battle starts and more powerful items require more space on your item list.
  
  One part of the battle system that is underutilized is light and shadow. Your characters and the 
 enemies have different moves depending on where they're standing. While your characters have one 
 set of moves for standing in the light and on set for the dark, enemies may even take on different 
 forms depending on where they're standing. Some enemies are weaker to light attacks and some are 
 hurt more by dark. While all that sounds interesting it doesn't come into play much besides moving 
 around once in a while if you need to heal. All of your characters attacks are very strong and 
 you'll have little trouble defeating the enemies no matter how illuminated your characters might 
 be.
  
  The story is the only real problem with this game. The game is set in the mind of Fredrick Chopin, 
 the real life famous composer and pianist. While this game might or might not be accurate historically 
 isn't too important to someone playing through it, though I'm sure the real Chopin did not have 
 blue hair. Fredrick is dieing and on some sort of quest in his mind. Meanwhile your other characters 
 are on a quest to stop Count Waltz from using mineral powder to turn his citizens into mindless 
 zombie soldiers. Both of these plots are developing at the same time and in the end neither of 
 them come to a satisfying conclusion. If you manage to put up with the slow moving redundant dialog 
 and make it to the end, you'll probably be left with more questions than answers. It could be that 
 some cultural refrences got lost in the localization.
  
  Despite the glaring story problems, it is hard to rate this game poorly. It is fun enough to push 
 players through the main quest, which last about 25-30 hours. That alone seems enough to justify 
 the now lowered price. The game probably wont leave you with any sort of excited feelings after 
 completing it though. Still every other element of the game is well done, and for that Eternal 
 Sonata is worth checking out. 
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mechatac
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 20, 2008 6:29 pm PT
Review:  Tri-Crescendo, previously known for doing music work within Tri-Ace, has made an Action JRPG for 
 the 360, published by well known publisher of action JRPG, Bandai Namco Games. As it appears the 
 360 may become the leader for overall JRPGs in the next gen console war, is this game one of the 
 ones worth playing?
  
  Graphics: 5/5
  This may be because its the second game I've ever played on my 360 (the first being Portal and 
 the Orange Box) , but these graphics were simply stunning. There would actually be times when I'd 
 stop playing and just look at the graphics of the cities and enviornments at times. I usually prefer 
 not to make grapihcal comments unless the graphics make the game somehow broken, but here, the 
 grapics are just amazing and stunning. You'd really have to see it to beleive how much detail has 
 been put into everything. The only JRPG that I think has graphics nearing this at any moment in 
 time is Rogue Galaxy for the PS2. Some graphics simply need to be experienced and it helps draw 
 you into the game as well.
  
  Sound: 4/5
  Your opinion of the music may vary in mileage, but anyone who enjoys classical music and piano 
 pieces in particular will enjoy the music. In the end, non of it is too memorable, and that means 
 that there were no good nor bad tracks in the soundtrack. It fits the game however and most complaints 
 about music are petty.
  The voice overs are nice, non of the English voice actors sound out of place, but if the English 
 cast upsets you, you can turn on the Japanese soundtrack with English titles. There's really no 
 reason to be upset, its not the best dub ever, but its a cut above most.
  The sound effects in the game can be grating though, due to the lack of enemy variety, theres also 
 a lack of enemy sound effects. Most of the sound effects in battle are samey, but not irritating 
 in the end. Some of the after battle sayings can be, including quite possibly the worst after battle 
 threat said by any character in any action JRPG ever: "Go wash yourself up!". This, for me, rather 
 broke the tension of the game and snapped me back to reality. Its quite funny though, even if it 
 does detract from the game a bit.
  
  Gameplay: 7.5/10
  Outside battle gameplay + menus: 4/5
  The menu system works quite well, its not overly complicated 
 and its easy to figure out. Because outside of battle is the only place where you can restock your 
 items for battle, using the menus will happen frequently. Moving is never a problem either, but 
 it is easy to get lost in most of the dungeons due to confusing flip switching in some dungeons, 
 and just dead ends in others. While this makes you explore the dungeons more, its usually not by 
 your choice, even if the graphics are pretty enough to make you forgive it.
  In battle gameplay: 3.5/5
  This is, unfortunatly, a weak element in this game, but it is still 
 fun. The biggest problem with combat stems from the lack of enemy variety. One complete section 
 of the game has only one type of enemy in it, not including the boss (you fight wave after wave 
 of priates appearing in groups of 2 or 3. It sucked and got on my nerves) . Something that the game 
 does to make up for this is introduce a light/shadow system, which can change some enemies and 
 their attacks, as well as what moves your own party is able to pull off. The system helps to add 
 some more fun and variety to the gameplay, as well as forcing the need for fast strategizing. The 
 game starts off easy, giving you unlimited time to think things over, but after certain boss fights, 
 the game ups the difficulty. Next, you'll get a few seconds to think it over, then a timer starts 
 down which is all the time your current character (or the enemy) has to attack in. Eventually, 
 that timer goes away, the time you have for attacking goes down, and the whole game speeds up. 
 Its a nice system and on New Game +, you can switch what level you want to use for battle. In the 
 end, the gameplay is still a lot of fun, even if the lack of enemy variety will get on your nerves 
 at times.
  
  Story: 3/5
  I only rate on story on games where story should be an element (like in most, non-Mario JRPGs) . 
 For the most part, the story stays interesting and inserts tidbits about Chopin's life into the 
 story. The characters are all interesting and fun to watch. It's not the most interesting bunch 
 I've ever found in a JRPG, but they're certainly charming enough, although not overly ambitious. 
 The problem in the story comes from the ending. Never before have I seen any anime or other JRPG 
 hold a story together so well, then suddenly shatter the whole thing at the end, resulting in a 
 tremendous "WTF?!" yelling at the screen. Until the end though, the story is enjoyable enough to 
 continue on with the game, but bewarned that this quite possibly has the worst ending I've ever 
 seen.
  From the back of the box to avoid coming up with the scenario description myself: "On his deathbed, 
 the famous composer, Chopin, drifts between this life and the next. Chopin discovers the light 
 that shines in all of us in this enduring tale of good and evil, love and betrayal". In basic, 
 the whole story takes place in what may be Chopin's dream before his death at age 39. The story 
 doesn't focus on this however and makes use of the other characters for its story telling. Its 
 an interesting scenario, but it does slip into "group of anime kids save the world from _______" 
 in the end, but its still just good enough to keep you through the game.
  
  In the end, I give this a 7.5/10, the same rating as I gave the gameplay. Because I am playing 
 a game, the gameplay should be the most important thing and everything else should just be icing 
 on the cake. When it boils down to just to gameplay, the part you actively participate in, I wouldn't 
 give it higher than a 7.5.
  
  But, given the amount of other Action JRPGs currently on the 360 market (a very small number currently) , 
 you really still have little other choice if you want a decently good action JRPG. Rent it first, 
 as you'll probably know if you'll enjoy the game enough to see it through to end within 2 hours.
 
  
  *I admit, I lack XBOX Live, so I didn't view any of the online content for this game. Odds are 
 however that if you're playing a JRPG, online gameplay might not be your first reaction (sure, 
 for MMORPGs, but not normal ones) . I also didn't have enough friends with 360 controllers nearby 
 me to try out the mutliplayer, but in theory, its the same gameplay where everyone controls a single 
 charcter (player one controls extras) .* 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lovely_beauty
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 6, 2008 5:02 am PT
Review:  The story starts in 10/17/1849 when the genius composer Frdric Chopin was in his dying moments 
 after months tortured by tuberculosis. During his last 3 hours, Chopin was immersed in a strange 
 world that only existed in his own imagination. Meeting Polka, Allegretto, Beat and other friends, 
 the maestro began a new adventure that would affect people of that new land... With its plot built 
 on the life of a great composer, Eternal Sonata (ES) makes many mistake it for a rhythm game like 
 Dance Dance Revolution hay Guitar Hero. But no, it's a Role Playing, and no doubt it's one of the 
 finest of its genre.
  
  Game play of ES attracts you from the first glance to its very end. There is no contingent battle, 
 every monster appears on the screen and you can choose to attack or dodge them. If more tricky, 
 you can approach from behind and catch them at your advantage. In theory, ES is a turn-based RPG, 
 but the developers have included many Real-time factors to create an orignial game play. On battlefield, 
 each character will attack at his turn and the time for action is restricted by Action Gauge bar, 
 which gradually drops to zero. Besides normal strikes, every character has special abilities and 
 healing power. However, be mindful when using these abilities since their effectiveness is based 
 on Echoes index and once they have been used, Echoes will drop to zero. The higher Echoes is, the 
 more effective your power is unleashed. Besides, your team consists of 3 from a selection of 10 
 characters, so it's wise to combine ones having high attack speed to raise Echoes faster with ones 
 having strong attacks to finish enemies. You can also block attack by B button at the right time.
 
  
  All battles in ES are influenced by light system. Every hero or monster has 2 special skill tree 
 and each can only be used under specific light condition. On the battle map, some area are in light 
 while others are in shadow, you have to use the right ability depending on your location. The funny 
 part is that characters can use even the shade of opponents to unleash dark powers! To make ES 
 more challenging, Tri-Crescendo introduces Party Level. Through the game, this level will rise 
 and so does the difficulty. If at the beginning, you can move freely without the fear to run out 
 of time, timing becomes critical later or you will lose your turn. So be swift and precise. Mini 
 games in ES are mostly finding the lost melodies to harmonize with other characters. If do well, 
 the final score will be high and the prize will be precious items or bonus experience.
  
  That's the game play, now more about the script. ES script must take a great effort to write since 
 it contains two main story lines which seem separate at first but later will intersect to be as 
 whole. This technique is also reused in many episodes where small story lines are designed as parallel 
 to place you in many points of view. The whole plot is a lesson about courageous men who dare to 
 stand against the darkness to make life more worthy. Here and there you will see the last thoughts 
 of Chopin, which brings more meaning to ES. If there is any thing to complain, it can only be the 
 length of the ES because you certainly want more from such a masterpiece!
  
  Graphics design is based on cel-shading, not a new technique in Japanese products (somehow reminds 
 me of Okami) , but it surely utilizes all processing power of XBox 360. Costumes belong to European 
 style of 19th century and fit with each character. Each hero has his/her own personality lively 
 exposed in movement and facial features. Chopin's dream world are filled with bright and harmonious 
 colors: the sky, the cloud and the sunshine have sophisticated beauty, the sparkling water surface, 
 the stretching green field... Both cut scenes built on the game's engine or FMV shows careful implementation 
 from the developers. Some episodes like Chopin with Polka on the flowering field of Tenuto will 
 stun you with its romantic beauty.
  
  Though it's not a rhythm game, music in ES still can't be better. This task is assigned to Motoi 
 Sakuraba, another world famous composers of our time, who is familiar with fans of Tales, Valkyrie 
 Profile and Star Ocean series. Besides, you will have a chance to enjoy Chopin's masterpieces by 
 Stanislav Bunin, a pianist who won Chopin award at his 19.
  
  The game has ended, but its resonance will last long in our mind. I love Chopin!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: oceanshoreview
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 4, 2008 10:43 am PT
Review:  For RPG fans who own 360s there really isn't much to choose from, but Eternal Sonata would be a 
 solid choice if you chose it. It is most definitely an RPG at heart, and for those who don't play 
 RPG's because of turned based battle systems, they can still look here because this one actually 
 has quite a unique battle system. 
  
  It was actually the battle system that drew me to this game, playing the demo I noticed that it 
 was fairly original and that was enough to sell me. Enemies roam around dungeons and whatnot when 
 you make contact with them you initiate a battle and go to a battle screen. Normal rules apply 
 to this method, you run into the back of them and you get a back attack advantage and vice versa. 
 
  
  On the battle screen it goes in a turn based fashion where you are always aware of who is up next. 
 However, each turn is not a one move turn. You have limited time to perform whatever actions you 
 choose. At the start you'll have something like 2 seconds of "tactical time" (aka time to think) 
 and then something like 4 seconds of "action time" (time to do) . These times change as the game 
 goes on and you become more experienced.
  
  During the action time you can move, attack, throw up items, and whatever combination of these 
 you choose. Four seconds doesn't sound like a lot, but it's really a good amount of time to do 
 some damage. Once you start to figure out enemies and their patterns you can really utilize this 
 time and take out enemies before they even get a turn. 
  
  The game also features special attacks that you can use at any time. These take X seconds to perform 
 and are things like stronger multiple hit attacks or magic spells. Not long in the game though 
 you'll find that if you are in the middle of a combo when your action time runs out you'll still 
 finish the combo and you can spam your special attack and still pull it off effectively using more 
 than your allotted time. This is where some of the downfalls come in, but more on those soon.
 
  
  The other really cool thing that Eternal Sonata incorporates is the use of light and shadows. These 
 come into play in two different ways. One is that enemies will sometimes change into different 
 (more or less powerful enemies) when they move from light into shadow. The other is that you're 
 characters have different special attacks when they are located in the light or the shadows. 
 
  
  Now, these light and shadows aren't just like full fledged light or dark areas, but when you are 
 in a battle often there will be lights around that emit light, or maybe the whole area will be 
 light but you can get in the shadow cast by an enemy. Or some enemies have lights of their own. 
 There are items that emit a light (or shadow) around you for a period of time. This is incorporated 
 all kinds of ways and is really cool.
  
  The graphics in the game are amazing. Obviously it doesn't shoot for a realistic feel, but the 
 characters models are great, the environments are great and there is all kinds of flashy effects. 
 The sound is pretty good. The music is good (as it should be, being about Chopin) , but some of 
 the sound effects feel a bit off. 
  
  Now, the downfalls, which happen to be some of the games coolest things. The battle system is awesome, 
 I loved it. But, it gets to the point where you can perform so many high combo-high damage moves 
 that it gets monotonous. You'll find that after about 3 encounters with any type of enemy you'll 
 have a plan mapped out of how to defeat them in the fewest hits and you'll use that same strategy 
 for the next 100 encounters with that enemy. 
  
  The game is also pretty easy. Maybe my characters got over-leveled, or maybe I should have switched 
 up the characters I use more, but really the only parts that aren't a breeze is the bonus dungeon 
 towards the end of the game. After going through which you will completely OBLITERATE the final 
 boss. 
  
  The story segments often drag out for way to long as well. I liked all the characters and I wanted 
 to know their stories. But there is so much dialogue that after a certain point it's very difficult 
 to pay attention any more and absorb what you're being told. 
  
  If they had toned down and balanced some of these things a little better I think the game would 
 be almost perfect. I really liked it a lot, I just feel like it wasn't balanced right. That's the 
 best way for me to put it really. But, if you own a 360 and like RPG's there's not much else to 
 choose from. I say give it a shot, just to have a good time and maybe force yourself to vary things 
 up a bit because the game won't force it upon you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sirbargearse
Rating: 8
Date: May 30, 2008 1:49 am PT
Review:  I had been curious about this title for sometime. Actually it was on Gamespot that I first spotted 
 it. But to find it on a bargain bin (JB HiFi for all you Australian gamers) for only $29 was a 
 treat!
  
  You play the part of a group of adventurers in a world that has been dreamed up by Chopin who is 
 on his deathbed at a tragically young age. From the very get go you'll be in love with the amazingly 
 lush detail that has been pumped into this title. This kind of game seems to be only possible by 
 Japanese game designers it plays more like a cartoon with lenghty cut scenes (my controller timed 
 out on one of them!) and gourgeous landscapes that carry the story line from start to end.
  
  It's only downfall are the documentary like interludes that give you an insight into Chopin's 
 tragic short life that break up the pace of the game. It's fuelled by lushes visuals, an engaging 
 combat system that utilises light and shadow to give the player more to think about during battles. 
 Plus it's voice acting won't leave you wanting to hit the mute button. My only critisism is that 
 the game is very much linear. But this may appeal to the more casual gamer. It still has enough 
 to amuse the more harden RPG'er considering the lack of turn based RPG's on the market today. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xTHAWx
Rating: 9
Date: May 27, 2008 1:41 pm PT
Review:  Eternal Sonata is a Japanese roleplaying game of the Xbox 360, which is simply adorable. It plays 
 in a similar way to many other games in the genre, but adds a few new twists in terms of it combat 
 system, bringing a breath of fresh air.
  
  Firstly the design of the game is very similar to Japanese anime - cute characters, bright and 
 beautiful backdrops, and the usual silly comic moments are all thrown into the mix. The graphics 
 aren't going to amaze anyone; there are no fantastic textures etc, but the overall style makes 
 it feel as though you were watching an interactive anime movie.
  
  The gameplay in most respects is no different to any other JRPG. You tend to spend most of your 
 time moving from point A to point B and collecting new weapons and items along the way to boost 
 your characters, as well as plenty of leveling up to acquire new abilities. This is a common turn 
 off for non-rpg fans, so there is nothing here that will bring them into the genre. The battles 
 are initiated by running into the enemies on screen - a system that works a little better than 
 random battles a la Final Fantasy, but can also lead you to miss out on leveling up properly if 
 you try to rush through sections. However, this aspect has been seen in other RPGs, such as Tales 
 of Symphonia.
  
  However, there are a few ingenious additions. Firstly, the battle system, while turn based, also 
 adds an action element. You move your character in their turn and attack and use items and special 
 moves. In the enemies turn you can actively defend against their attacks and also counter attack 
 them. Also, in addition to leveling up your characters, at certain points in the game you party's 
 level will increase. This has the effect of limiting your tactical time (the amount of time you 
 have to think about your actions) and your turn time (the amount of time you get to move your character 
 around in) . However, these levels also unlock bonuses, such as Echoes (which allow you to string 
 together attacks to build Echoes which then increase the power of your specials) as well as the 
 counter attack ability and more. You can also choose to set the party level lower if you don't 
 feel comfortable at the higher ones.
  
  Finally, the story is simply magical. It centers around Frederic Chopin, the famous composer, and 
 the world that he creates in his dreams while at death's door. However, the questions of whether 
 this dream is a reality or not is central to the plot. The story is divided into eight chapters 
 - most of which are named after a piece of Chopin's music, and at some point you will get to hear 
 the entire piece played, along with an educational subtext which teaches you about Chopin's life 
 in the real world and the influences behind his music. Much of this also ties into the story in 
 this 'dream world', but I thought that this educational premise in such a beautiful game was simply 
 marvelous.
  
  Overall, Eternal Sonata is a brilliant RPG. While it features many aspects of previous games in 
 this genre, it also has some new mechanics. Plus at over 30 hours of gameplay, it'll entertain 
 you for a while. The story+ mode also grants some additional replay value, especially if you want 
 to get all the 360 achievements (as some can only be obtained in the second play through) . However, 
 after the first run through you'll probably beat the game in under 20 hours. Still, I would highly 
 recommend this game to all fans of JRPGs and anime, though many disillusioned with linear RPGs 
 won't find much new here. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kayos90
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 25, 2008 12:09 am PT
Review:  Eternal Sonata Review ---------- 8.5
  
  Introduction:
  
  Eternal Sonata is a new Japanese Role Playing Game released for the Xbox 360. It was released for 
 Japan, as Trust Bell, earlier and now it has made its grand debut within the States. 
  
  
  Story ------- 8.3
  
  Eternal Sonata starts with the famous pianist Frederic Francois Chopin 
 on his deathbed. Hours before his death, Chopin goes into a dreamlike state creating the magical 
 world inside his head. In the world is a girl by the name of Polka who has a terminal illness due 
 to her magical abilities. Through a series of events Chopin in his dream meet with the ill girl 
 Polka to go on a journey that will put an end to the misery in people's hearts. 
  
  The story itself starts out like a small accomplishment at first but grows into a bigger conflict. 
 The game, however, does not focus on just the story itself but brings the issue of economy, discrimination, 
 and morals into play. Some of the deep conversations that the characters have can impact the player 
 deeply and that's what makes Eternal Sonata such a deep game.
  
  
  Sound --------- 9.0
  
  For a game that's based off of a musician it's hard not to have a great musical composition 
 to go with a game. Eternal Sonata directed by Motoi Sakuraba with many well played piano, orchestrated, 
 and vocals. The game even features quite a bit of Chopin's own music. These pieces can be played 
 at anytime after you unlock them by progressing through the game. Overall the musical aspect of 
 the game is amazing
  
  Now the sound section would've gotten a perfect 10 if it wasn't for the voice acting in the game. 
 Some of the voice actors in the game are amazing; however, this can't be said for all of them. 
 The kids in the game have voices that squeal and squeak and gets very annoying at times. The overall 
 actors due a good job.
  
  
  Graphics ------- 9.2 
  
  The visuals in this game, although it looks childish, are very daunting. The graphics are top-notch. 
 The characters are vibrantly colored in a cell-shaded manner that makes them look cartoony and 
 the overworld looks massively beautiful. You will sometimes wish that you can just delve yourself 
 further into the amazing sceneries that you will come across. The game can run in 1080i HD and 
 looks amazing without any graphical errors. This kind of cartoony graphics isn't something you 
 come across everyday, especially at this level.
  
  
  Gameplay ------- 9.2
  
  The gameplay of Eternal Sonata is its forte as it is very involving. Much to resemble the Tales 
 of series, Eternal Sonata has individual characters that can roam around in a given space to attack 
 the enemies. However, everything is not moving in real time but that doesn't mean it breaks up 
 the pace of the gameplay itself. You control one character and move the character around the field 
 to do a certain action whether it's to attack, use a special ability or an item. You only have 
 a certain amount of time with each character so learning how to use your time is essential in the 
 core gameplay. Characters that you control are determined by the speed. Since it's not technically 
 real time your opponent will also have a turn to move also. Who gets to go, whether the enemy or 
 you, will be dependent on the enemy/character's speed. Some characters will even go twice in a 
 single party run-through, rather than once. The combat system is further enhanced through the use 
 of the light and dark feature. Each character has a set of special moves controlled by the Y-button. 
 However, depending on whether you're standing in darkness or light determines your special attack. 
 This element definitely adds a little bit of strategy into the mix. Not only that but by pulling 
 of a string of combos on a character can build up the strength of your special attack called the 
 "Echo Meter" Overall the combat system is amazing and stands as one of the most involving and most 
 intriguing on the 360. 
  
  
  Value -------8.3
  The value of Eternal Sonata is most likely 60 dollars right now which is a bit hefty, however, 
 for what it has to offer it sure is worth the deal. If you complete every sidequest and attain 
 every single item then it will most likely take 60 hours or more. The visuals are the most stunning 
 on the 360 yet and the combat is enticing. Overall the game is worth it if you make it last. 
 
  
  
  Conclusion:
  The game Eternal Sonata takes you on a journey that seems at first light-hearted but a journey 
 of a lifetime. This game can teach you a thing or two about life if you let it and not only that 
 but enriches you on the musical wonders of Chopin himself. With so much diversity in the game as 
 well as many topics that the game has to offer in the story, it's a great playthrough. However, 
 a game is about playing and Eternal Sonata does well with it. The combat system is well designed 
 and is one of the best on the 360 right now, for the RPG genre. An involving fighting engine as 
 well as a strategic factor that plays into the combat helps to make this a very fun game. Eternal 
 Sonata shouldn't be looked down upon because of its artistic style or length but rather at the 
 big picture of why it's amazing. Its amazing story and depth as well as combat will bring players 
 back numerous times to the world of Eternal Sonata. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: king-kill33
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 14, 2008 6:08 pm PT
Review:  Eternal Sonata is a strange premise, you play a game (a JRPG) about polish composer Frdric Chopin. 
 It might all seem strange and quirky, well thats exactly what Eternal Sonata is. If you enjoy JRPG's 
 you are going to absolutely love this to bits. Its beautiful to look at... I mean jaw droppingly 
 pretty. This game will really show off the capabilities of your 360 and your HDTV with rich clean 
 colours and animations.
  
  The game itself plays like any normal JRPG, play as a team of oddly dressed characters all complete 
 with funny hairstyles to save the world from an evil force. The true differences lie in the little 
 touches I don't want to spoil it for anyone but lets just say this game has dramatic if a little 
 obvious twists. The way the game plays is also similar to other JRPGS... Turn based (ish) hack, 
 slash and magic your enemy to death. it introduces a clever light and dark system which adds a 
 layer to the combat, on top of this you have your timer which kicks in as soon as you take a step 
 and later on in the game as soon as your turn starts. As you progress through the game you will 
 probably find that you way out level your enemies. Fights are still fun none the less. You have 
 a whole array of wicked cool magic attacks and specials to your disposal, all look amazing and 
 are wonderfully eccentric. The game also has a few other nice touches in combat that help part 
 it from the competition it's nothing revolutionary but its nice.
  
  This game does stumble a few times unfortunately and they are some pretty big hurdles too. The 
 entire quest should not take you more than 20 hours, while lengthy by most game standards this 
 is relatively short for a JRPG (not including the weak attempt at getting you to play the game 
 through twice) Also the story while interesting and a little kitsch, its extremely predictable 
 and linear, so those looking for something to get lost in may find this is not the game for them. 
 The game also features a lot of cutscenes some of which teach you about Chopin's life and music, 
 it's a nice idea but its dull and breaks the games pace up. 
  
  Even with it's shortcomings, Eternal Sonata is a shining gem of a title, and something the 360 
 sorely needed, if you like JRPG's that don't take themselves too seriously or if your just looking 
 for something pretty to stare at, look no further.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: woman4games
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 24, 2008 8:35 pm PT
Review:  After spending weeks playing this game, I couldn't wait for today. Why? Because today was the day 
 I was finally going to beat it. I love stories that keep you guessing, and this was NO exception. 
 Today, I was going to get all the loose ends tied up. The story was finally going to make sense. 
 But suddenly, I beat the last boss, and it was just...... over. I sat there after the ending credits 
 holding the controller thinking, "And?" 
  
  So what exactly happened? Well, first off, it is my personal gaming policy to list all the positives 
 before the gripes. After all, let's give credit where credit is due. So, in the game's defense, 
 here is what was done RIGHT about this game:
  * The characters. I liked them all, and each of them were developed nicely. I connected with them 
 and really wanted things to work out for them. The only thing I could've lived without was Beat's 
 voice. He's definitely a nominee for most annoying game character ever in my book.
  * Graphics were simply gorgeous. I loved it. These are the types of places I used to imagine when 
 I'd play pretend as a little girl. But that's a whole other story that I'm sure none of you have 
 time for.
  * Naturally, you know the music was awe-inspiring. I could feel the emotion behind it. Enough said.
 
  
  But now, here's what is done WRONG with the game. Um, the story? Unlike the atrocity that was FF12, 
 this game actually did take a stab at a story. But...... there was too much story. Like many small 
 ones that had nothing to do with the other. Fragments, if you will. I will attempt to put the pieces 
 together here:
  1) Fred's dying. He believes this is a world that exists only in his dreams. But the unsatisfying 
 ending still doesn't clue us in if this is a dream or indeed a reality.
  2) Polka is also dying. But, we never find out why. And why do the agogos glow around her? What 
 the hell even is an agogo? 
  3) It appears Allegretto is the Robin Hood of the story, along with his assistant, Beat. Ok, I 
 get that. Now why are they a part of the story?
  4) Where did Viola come from? What's her deal? For awhile, I kept expecting it to be revealed that 
 she was yet another spy.
  5) Where was the emotion when Claves died? For his girlfriend, Jazz seemed awfully detached from 
 her. Falsetto was the only one who displayed any real emotion over it.
  6) And whatever happened with the rest of Andantino?
  
  These were just a few things I was 
 left feeling unsatisfied over. Sure, things can't always go MY way, but dammit, I'd like SOME closure. 
 Perhaps the 2nd playthrough will yield more results, but from the Brady guides I've read, I'm not 
 going to hold my breath.
  
  Lastly, this is the #1 thing that I couldn't deal with. The bosses. When one died, here came another. 
 And none of them were developed. Unlike great villians such as Sephiroth or Nemesis, once defeated, 
 they were tossed aside like they never existed. Such as Waltz. He was suppossed to be the main 
 baddie in the game, right? And suddenly, he shows up, b___-slaps Polka, and you off him. THAT'S 
 IT. Where is the grand send-off like we've seen with our friend Sephiroth? Once Waltz is defeated, 
 no mention is ever made of him again. Ok...........
  
  So, that's my review. The game made a good, if unfinished effort. I did like it, just didn't understand 
 it. Also, I believe the slow history lessons which frequently interrupted the game should've been 
 somehow integrated into the story. Don't ask me how, but they definitely could've been executed 
 better. The only way I'm going to be truly complete with this game is if I get a sequel. Until 
 then, I'll be moving on to bigger and better things. Like Gears of War 2. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: El_Jarvo
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 24, 2008 4:39 pm PT
Review:  Edutainment. Once the worst type of game genre that existed; now the one that is seemingly dominating 
 the entire planet. Publishers these days are completely milking the whole "learn-while-you-play" 
 market, and while these titles are mainly based on general language and arithmetic, some dare branch 
 out into other learning domains. In Eternal Sonata's case, we have, essentially, an interactive 
 history lesson.
  
  Eternal Sonata's story takes place in a dream Frederic Chopin, the famous musician, has whilst 
 on his death bed. In his dream, Chopin encounters Polka; a 14-year-old girl who, like Chopin, can 
 use magic. But, whilst the ability to use magic is indeed a very helpful ability, only those who 
 are dieing have the ability to do so. Whilst Chopin meets Polka, you're also introduced to Allegretto 
 and Beat who are the "thieves-with-good-intentions" of the game. Eventually the four meet up and 
 several more characters join their quest to ask the almighty ruler, Count Waltz, why taxes are 
 so high on everything bar the government-supplied Mineral Powder.
  
  The game sets itself up well, and has a very intriguing plot to follow. The end of the game does 
 go a bit. crazy, but it's a JRPG, so I suppose it's to be expected. However, despite the excellent 
 storyline, there are certain pieces of dialogue between characters and cutscenes that either make 
 you cringe or simply lose interest. For example, as mentioned before, Eternal Sonata is secretly 
 an edutainment title. Yes, it is essentially an RPG, but there are so many references to the real 
 world that the game can at times seem like a really cheesy charity campaign advertisement. With 
 attempting not to give the ending away, I won't say more other than if you hate charity adverts, 
 you might want to leave the room for about ten minutes.
  
  Gameplay wise, Eternal Sonata doesn't disappoint. As is the tradition of turn-based RPGs, battles 
 occur in arenas separate to the world map. The exploration on the world map is fairly linear; in 
 fact you'll probably find yourself playing through the game a second time before you even begin 
 to fully explore Eternal Sonata. The linearity of the game presents another major problem with 
 the game, and that is the game's length.
  
  The game barely lasts 30 hours, which is not impressive for a console RPG at all. If you actually 
 stop and branch off from the main story and attempt the side quests, of which there a few, then 
 you may be able to scrape a few extra hours, but then again the side quests aren't really that 
 interesting and so you may find yourself playing through the main story and then not bothering 
 with the second playthrough that the game encourages. What doesn't help either is the fact that 
 the game is extremely easy. Not once did I see a game over screen, and only really struggled on 
 1 or 2 boss battles.
  
  The battles in Eternal Sonata occur randomly whilst exploring. Luckily, you can actually see the 
 enemies in the world, so it is possible to avoid unwanted encounters. The battles are a mixture 
 of a turn-based and real-time setup. You are able to fully control the character's movements in 
 the battle arena, as well as the attacks and other techniques the character can use. You're given 
 a time limit with which to do this, and it can actually become quite strategic, as character placement 
 can genuinely affect an enemy's attack. For example, positioning one character behind an enemy 
 and one in front could mean the enemy has only one choice of target, as his attack range can only 
 reach one direction. Ensure he targets a character with a large amount of HP and defense by placing 
 him in front of the enemy, and you've gained a genuine advantage over the enemy.
  
  Everything in the battle system is interactive, even the blocking and counter-attacking system, 
 which requires some very specific button presses. It can get fairly repetitive though. There are 
 a whole ton of different items and pieces of equipment with which to bestow your characters with, 
 but there's not a lot of depth there. This is mainly due to the fact that even the items bought 
 from the shops can match up to some of the armour you find in the field, which means every character 
 may potentially end wearing the exact same pieces of armour as each other for the majority of the 
 game.
  
  The game has a solid soundtrack as well. Being a game based on music, this is hardly surprising, 
 but Eternal Sonata's soundtrack is one of the best on the 360. The voice acting is fairly decent 
 at times, but can go a little off from time to time, but it's nothing too drastic.
  
  The game boasts cutesy-anime style graphics with cel-shaded characters galore. Whilst the graphics 
 aren't the most realistic, it doesn't matter. Eternal Sonata looks like a High-Definition-3D-anime, 
 or in other words, is very, VERY pretty. The game is, for the most part, very colorful and suits 
 its storyline well. Occasionally, however, things can look a little bland.
  
  Overall, Eternal Sonata is a solid game. Whilst it does suffer from a short gameplay length and 
 overly-long dialogue, if you are willing to overlook the game's few flaws what you'll find is something 
 bursting with personality. Eternal Sonata is a game that will appeal to practically all JRPG fans, 
 and maybe even those who fancy something a little different.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: SirFrosty
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 23, 2008 5:58 pm PT
Review:  As you probably know, Eternal Sonata is the inventive RPG which follows the story of the dream 
 that Frederic Chopin is having on his deathbed. 
  
  Eternal Sonata's story is one that draws the player in; I found myself eagerly awaiting the next 
 cut-scene very often, wondering what was going to happen next. The plot twists in the game really 
 threw me; they weren't the "twists" that happen in a lot of stories, that are very predictable.
 
  
  The art style of the game is very imaginative, and very pretty. The developers took a lot of time 
 to make each area look unique, and did a very good job in my opinion. The scenery is VERY colorful, 
 which is a good thing due to the fact that the color is put to use very effectively. Players will 
 experience such beautiful sights as the rolling waves of an ocean, a magically lit up forest, and 
 a bustling town full of interesting architecture.
  
  The Eternal Sonata soundtrack is full of Chopin's compositions. This fits very well with the colorful 
 scenery and the musical names of the towns and people. Every so often in the game, the story will 
 pause and give you a brief background story of Chopin and how he came to write one of his major 
 compositions in the game. To a history nerd like myself, these tidbits of information are very 
 interesting, and add to my amusement. However, they do tend to pull you out of the story a bit, 
 which could be a bad thing for some people. 
  
  The gameplay of Eternal Sonata is your basic turn-based RPG with a few twists. Instead of just 
 choosing an attack for each character and attacking, each character has a set amount of time with 
 which to attack. You can attack in real time, or if you use a special attack the attack is performed 
 automatically, with your set attack time still draining. After a certain point in the game, when 
 characters use a standard attack on an enemy, they gain what are called Echoes. Echoes continue 
 charging until one character uses a special attack. When a special attack is used, the Echoes are 
 also used, but they make the attack much more powerful, depending on how many Echoes were charged. 
 This adds to the strategy of the game, because you'll find yourself saving Echoes from the weaker 
 characters so that the character with the strongest special attacks can use them. The fighting 
 system takes a bit of time to get used to, but once you get past the learning curve, it's a really 
 fun system.
  
  In addition to the normal RPG elements, the game has a system of what are called Score Pieces. 
 These are musical pieces that you can find scattered throughout the game, and you can play them 
 with NPC's in towns and the like. If you play a Score Pieces that harmonizes well with the other 
 character's piece, they will give you an item, and you can gain many interesting items that way. 
 
  
  My only complaint with Eternal Sonata is that after a while, you find yourself fighting the same 
 enemies over and over, just different colored to match the area. This gets a bit repetitive and 
 annoying, but isn't a major flaw.
  
  All in all, Eternal Sonata is a very well put together RPG that will probably have you playing 
 through more than once to see everything it has to offer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fireemblems
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 13, 2008 10:05 pm PT
Review:  Eternal Sonata is a very different game, because although its a fantasy game it revolves around 
 the life of Frederic Chopin (famous composer of the olden days) Oddly the game starts only hours 
 before he passes away on his deathbed. So is the game about fighting his disease? some twisted 
 version of Trauma Center? Well.... No, You play through in his final dream, where he meets a group 
 of characters which get him involved in their worlds affairs and yeah ultimately you have to end 
 the war, and save the world... It sounds kinda crappy but no, the game focuses more on the other 
 characters that Chopin and they are all very interesting.
  Things about ES:
  *9 different playable characters
  *Easy Money! some people complain about it, but i simply love 
 it
  *Great Story
  *GREAT Music (games about music pretty much, just look at the character names!)
  *Easy to Understand 
 Battle System
  *Although not Earth Destroying.... Awesome Combos
  *Beautiful Visuals
  *Great Voice Acting!!
  *Great Characters
  *Funny at times
  *Brightens up your day (everything 
 is so colorful and beautiful music)
  *Although you control a bunch of cute looking characters, they actually kill off the bad guys (none 
 of that crap of "he was only trying to help his family! please dont kill him")
  *Lame character (theres 1) isnt that lame *cough* Kimihari *cough*
  *Part of the Experience you 
 get in a battle goes to the others that didnt participate in battle (no lv.85, and another lv. 
 23)
  Only things i complain about is:
  *They should tell me MORE about what happens after to each individually
  *Game is 30 hrs or less 
 :/ but you play it twice so i guess its worth it, but you do get to skip videos)
  In the end if you have a 360 and you want an RPG here you go, great choice 9.2, Gamespot twists 
 my arm to say 9.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zenmaestro65
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 2, 2008 11:34 am PT
Review:  This video game is a work of art, exquisite to look at and a joy to play as well as educational 
 although I have probably forgotten most of what I had been taught about Chopin. The photographic 
 interludes are oddly enjoyable as well.
  If you enjoy turn-based RPG this is a must, if like me you indulge in them occasionally this is 
 a surefire contender for the one to play.
  On a down side I would criticise the use of real time combat elements as this led to moments of 
 total confusion at times. Also I found the inventory awkward. Very occasional camera problems. 
 There was also a distinct miserly side to the awardment of achievements, but then we don't we don't 
 play games for the achievements do we !!!!
  I felt the learning curve was mostly fine although, apart from one midway battle where I had to 
 level grind for a couple of hours I found the game relatively easy, money was easy to come by by 
 the use of the camera.
  All in all I found this a charming thirty odd hours of my life and a change from the blast fests 
 I often enjoy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: glitchgeeman
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 25, 2008 11:55 pm PT
Review:  What can I say? By now, most people have probably figured out that I'm a complete wh*re for unique 
 and pretty artstyles. Whether it be Killer 7, Okami, Pschonauts, or Super Mario Galaxy, I'm a complete 
 sucker for creative things. So you can imagine my delight when I found out that a game like Eternal 
 Sonata existed.
  
  Eternal Sonata takes place in the dream of a dying Chopin, famous Romantic era pianist. In this 
 magical (and very colorful) world, music is prominent in everything. From names to shops to cities, 
 everythings got a musical reference. The story, albeit disjointed tells the tale of Allegretto 
 and Beat, two street urchins who go on a quest to... well... you see, that's the problem with Eternal 
 Sonata. For being such a beautiful game, it's very vague. At first, they set out to lower the horribly 
 high taxes in the city so the poor can live better. Then they go out to help Polka, the required 
 damsel in distress who is dying because she can use magic. I have decided from now on to refer 
 to her illness as "Magicancer".
  
  Questionable humor aside, the story is very disconnected, and often times, you'll be asking yourself, 
 "What the hell am I doing? Who the hell is that? And why the hell am I fighting a giant bat that 
 just turned into a giant fish?" The story seems to act more like a vehicle to get you from dungeon 
 to dungeon, hopefully keeping you entertained long enough to reach the end. It works, but let's 
 just say this story isn't groundbreaking. Characters aren't as fleshed out as I would've wished 
 either. I assure you, 10 years from now, you probably will not remember any of the characters except 
 Chopin if you happen to love Classical music or are a Major in music.
  
  Despite this though, the gameplay saves it. It's a fast paced real-time battle system that gives 
 you roughly 5 seconds to attack and perform special abilties. It may sound strange, but it really 
 adds a feeling of urgency to the game. Another unique aspect is the Light/Dark system. Depending 
 on where you and your enemies are, your special attacks will change and your enemies might even 
 change their shape (see giant bat transforming into giant fish above) . This adds a lot of tactical 
 value to an already fast-paced battle system, making each battle worthwhile and not simply a button 
 clicking fest.
  
  Now the biggest saving grace of this game is its artstyle. This game is beautiful. It is stunning. 
 It is amazing. With bright colors everywhere, crisp cell-shaded graphics, and some fantastically 
 designed characters and monsters, Eternal Sonata is certainly no slouch when it comes to graphics, 
 both technically and artistically. However, if you're one of those gamers that perfers what I call 
 the "Gears of War" pallette, this game is not for you. Even the browns are colorful in this game. 
 Actually, I haven't seen that much brown. Heck, grey might not even exist as far as I know. /exaggeration
 
  
  Overall, Eternal Sonata is an artistic masterpiece, no matter what your artistic preference is, 
 you cannot deny Eternal Sonata's visual merits. It's more colorful than Katamari, it's got the 
 best cell-shading I've seen this generation, and my God, it's just pretty in general. The action 
 is great and gameplay-wise, you will not find yourself bored. So if you can get past its slightly 
 jumbled plot and characters, you will find yourself with an amazing RPG experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shadowdemon0085
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 22, 2008 9:34 pm PT
Review:  Eternal Sonata is a rather enjoyable J-RPG. The graphics are very nice and colorful. The combat 
 system, it's turned/action based, is rather easy to get use to. The story is also rather enjoyable; 
 though I do feel at points there are holes in the story that could be filled. The sound is also 
 rather well done. There is a rather tranquil feel to the game due to the music, though when you 
 are in battle you get this nice combat music. However, Eternal Sonata can get very repetitive to 
 the point of needing to take breaks. Apart from being repetitive the game is also rather linear. 
 The game is also rather easy, I hardly felt challenged by the many 'minor' creatures throughout 
 the world and the bosses were somewhat difficult. Now let's break down everything.
  
  To start off with, the graphics are very nice and cartoony. I simply love the art and graphics 
 of this game, and I personally feel that these are some of the best. Everything is vivid with colors 
 creating a sense of awe when explore the world. The graphics are not topnotch with say Mass Effect 
 or Oblivion, but it's this simple but rather good graphics that give Eternal Sonata its charm. 
 The sound also adds another level of charm. While the voice acting isn't the best, the music and 
 sound effects are all very good. The music is without a doubt the best aspect of the game. It has 
 some of the best original score in any game from my memory. 
  
  The combat system is very well done. I love the turn based action feel you get when you go into 
 combat. It is rather unique due to having control over your character during your turn, can move 
 him all over the small field of battle, and can attack by pressing certain buttons. It's not your 
 typical pick-an-attack-watch-it-go turn based RPG. You have a certain amount of time for each character 
 in your team, a few seconds really, to move your character into a position best suited to attack 
 or play support. Once there you can attack and perform specials that helps your thee man team. 
 Once the time ones out you switch to another character of the team or it's the enemies turn to 
 attack and move. Again the combat is rather simple to get into and it rather enjoyable but it is 
 also easy and repetitive at times.
  
  The story is pretty interesting, though it is very linear. I won't reveal anything in the plot, 
 but to make things easy you are in a dream world of Fredrick Chopin, a piano composer. After this 
 the story unfolds on its own. At many points I would say the plot had holes in it. Some of things 
 going on makes you question the overall plot and you can't help but feel like there were parts 
 missing that could have been filled in. The story is also rather short for a J-RPG. It should only 
 take you around thirty or so hours to beat the game in one play through, though you will want to 
 go back a second time. When you play a second time there are new parts of the world to explore 
 and a bonus dungeon that you will definitely want to check out. Overall, the game should take a 
 good sixty hours to beat, if you want to beat the full game that is. If not and just want to do 
 one play through then it should simply take you thirty to forty hours. 
  
  Overall, Eternal Sonata has a charm about it that will quickly grasp your attention if you enjoy 
 RPGs. If not, well I highly doubt you will get into this. Eternal seems pretty slow at times with 
 a lot of repetitive battles. But, despite these things, it is still very fun and easy to enjoy. 
 The characters are insistently lovable and the colorful world gorgeous. For all fans of J-RPGs 
 it would be highly recommended if you picked these simple awesome game up. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: johngreece
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 17, 2008 6:09 pm PT
Review:  Beautiful ,stunning, gorgeous, cute, interesting, meaningful. 
  Right from the intro you get a warm fuzzy feeling in your 
  stomach. I felt like i was a kid 
 again with this game.
  I found myself immersed in the world of eternal sonata fighting evil and felt like a member of 
 this group of friends. The story is wonderful, full of human emotions love, hate, betrayal, courage 
 and many more.
  the control scheme is almost perfect other than some small issues with the special move but nothing 
 to write home about.
  The graphics are STUNNING the best cartoon game by far.
  The sound is also wonderful, full of Chopin's music, Need i say more.
  Chopin had a gift from 
 god.
  This games story and characters will bring you little bit closer to him. (pretty heavy!!)
  
 
  
  When i saw the cover of this game i said not another jrpg with 16 and 13 year old characters. But 
 after endless hours of gaming this game is up there with the final fantasy's, chronotrigers and 
 xenogears in my book.
  
  
  Bravo Namco Bandai!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mangaminx
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 16, 2008 1:04 pm PT
Review:  Fredrick Francois Chopin a Polish pianist and his fevered delirium as he lays on his death bed 
 does not sound like the most tasteful or exciting setting for a Japanese RPG adventure. However 
 raised eyebrows and scepticism aside it's a fact that Eternal Sonata manages to embrace this unusual 
 premise well and deliver an RPG that manages to revolutionize combat and handle the odd storyline 
 and setting quite well.
  
  The game takes place in Chopin's fevered dreams in a colourful anime style world where Chopin himself 
 along with a sizeable cast of characters battle the forces of evil. Chopin evidently has music 
 on the brain as the games central theme is music with all the people, towns and places named after 
 some kind of instrument or musical style. Later on the game will give you brief history lessons 
 on the real Chopin and a few times get you to play some simple music memory games so if you really 
 don't like music stay away, for everyone else there enjoyment to be had from the games unique music 
 based setting.
  
  
  While this may be Chopin's dream he is far from central character as the ten strong playable characters 
 have a sizeable amount of on-screen time being developed and it's really Polka and Allegretto who 
 take centre stage as leads with Chopin watching on. In this dream world the cast battle to stop 
 the evil Count Waltz from poisioning the world with a drug called "mineral powder" battling various 
 enemies and cohorts of the Count on the way. The story is simple with a serious tone to it which 
 leads for some rather bleak moments, but the main floor with the plot is that you really forget 
 that your part of it. You'll find yourself happily fighting completely detached from the story 
 before being forcibly sucked back into it (albeit temporarily) by a twenty minute cut scene. Not 
 to say the plot is awful it just doesn't connect with the player enough and even a reasonably clever 
 "wow so that's what its all about" twist at the end doesn't redeem it entirely. The games cast 
 do well to compensate for it's story though and your sure to have your favourites by the end of 
 the game that you love and remember.
  
  Before I go on to the usual review points of graphics etc I have to mention the combat. Wow. Just 
 wow. Eternal Sonata is the most fun I've had playing a JRPG for ages and after the monotony of 
 Blue-Dragon (review coming soon) and its traditional turn based style it is a breath of fresh air. 
 Combat in Eternal Sonata is still turn based but in that turn you have to actively move your character, 
 button bash to attack, use items and special moves before your turn is over. It makes for a manic 
 exciting style of game play that keeps you on the edge of your seat. Throw in the ability to block 
 enemy attacks with split second button bashes so you have to focus even when the enemies are taking 
 turns making fights all the more exciting. The game also constantly adds new elements to the combat 
 as the chapter's role by and you unlock new "party levels". Impressive special combos, light and 
 dark shape-shifting enemies and other extras await you as you progress. You'll be doing plenty 
 of fighting too as there are many enemies (visible not random) to battle between your parties journeys 
 from town to town and while the simple town to dungeon, town to dungeon formula is basic and clich, 
 the combat makes it worth your while.
  
  
  Visually Eternal Sonata is an impressive experience too, with some truly beautiful moments and 
 effects to greet you as you explore. The snow covered city of Baroque is one of my personal favourite 
 locations, but from starlit nights to xylophone towers to spitting pools of lava this game has 
 a location for everyone. All beautiful.
  
  
  
  Fortunately for Eternal Sonata (a game centred on music) it has good music too. Nothing I found 
 too memorable but if you're a fan of Chopin's music or classical as a whole you'll probably be 
 humming along soon enough. The only time the games audio falls slightly flat is with its voice 
 acting but I put that down partly to bad translation than to anything else as the English voice 
 acting sometimes dosen't entirely match everything on screen.
  
  
  
  Length wise there is a considerable amount of time to be had with Eternal Sonata if you can be 
 bothered with it. The main plot takes about 25hours and I was getting slightly bored of it by the 
 end but it managed to maintain my interest to the finale. There is also a hidden bonus dungeon 
 (which I ventured into but after 3 floors decided it was only for masochists and achievement monkeys) 
 to explore. Finished all that? Well there is encore mode and several achievements that require 
 two playthroughs to unlock, if you like it you could probably sink about 60 hours into this title 
 but personally for me it dosen't quite have the staying power for that.
  
  
  Overall Eternal Sonata delivers a fun, enjoyable, eminently playable game with a thrilling combat 
 system a moderately good storyline and interesting characters. It's not perfect but it's the best 
 JRPG currently available on the 360 and it deservedly gets..
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dantheman21192
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 15, 2008 9:18 pm PT
Review:  At first, I was not sure what to expect from this game. From what I saw advertised of it and the 
 lack of hype it recieved, it looked simply okay. However, if I never picked up this game, I would 
 have been missing out on a truly immersive experience. Everything in this game is original, from 
 the combat system to the storyline. It cleverly combines free-roaming and turn-based elements which 
 I have never seen a Role Playing Game do before. The events that these characters experience in 
 their everyday lives that you as the player get to see as you progress through the game make you 
 want to just keep playing and never put the controller down. From start to finish, the game will 
 probably take about 20 hours to beat, that is unless you get all the extras, which can take any 
 time from 25-30 hours to beat. In addition to this, when you are finished, there is definitely 
 incentive to replay the game, as there are new missions in the second playthrough, as well as many 
 extra achievement points. In short, games this good rarely come along, so make sure to buy this 
 game. It is definitely worth the price! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cornholio89
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 16, 2008 11:38 pm PT
Review:  For those who enjoy RPG's of all kinds, I recommend having it in your collection, however I detest 
 the idea of this game coming out on the 360, the Xbox360 is for military and shooting games or 
 just action, I'm sorry but the Xbox360 is no place for an RPG like this, it should have came out 
 for the Wii, although it is coming out for the PS3 which would have probably been a more likely 
 home to have began with. As for the game itself, the graphics are great, the art direction is whimsical, 
 inspirational, for me personally, the graphics are soothing for my eyes compared to intense stuff 
 like Gears of War or Halo 3 and Bioshock, so if you have sensitive eyesight like me, buy it. What 
 is also awesome is the soundtrack, one of the best I have heard. As for the story, I like the idea 
 of using Chopin as the main character and some of his real songs in the game, plus we get an idea 
 of what might have been going on inside his mind hours before he died thus making the story very 
 interesting. The combat system however is very new and revolutionary, I think its a great idea 
 to make it both turn based and active time, however the characters screaming out the name of their 
 special attack and magic gets annoying, plus some of the cut scenes are a tad too long. All in 
 all, if you enjoy playing RPG's often, its nice to have in your collection, but if you don't enjoy 
 RPG's regularly, stay away from it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ariellejodoin
Rating: 6
Date: Mar 11, 2008 10:38 am PT
Review:  One thing is for certain, this game really is eternal. Repetitive, and redundant fights, bosses 
 that seem to have infinite health, and constant, seemingly endless, cut scenes and cinema scenes 
 are what make up the bulk of this game. For whatever reason, you can use all of your "special attacks" 
 (I. E. magic) at no mana cost what-so-ever, and so during these disgustingly easy battles you are 
 constantly hearing the characters state the names of their moves, as there are only three things 
 you can do during battle, you can use an item, attack with your grossly underpowered weapon, or 
 use a special attack, which can generally two-shot the enemy. The only good thing I can say about 
 it is that, at the very least, the music is good, and you always want to know what's going to happen 
 next. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Thanatos2
Rating: 5.5
Date: Mar 7, 2008 10:11 am PT
Review:  Ok, now I love a truly story game as much as the next RPG lover, but if there is something that 
 completely kills this game, it's the fact that the story attempts to be grandiose, and it ends 
 up being boring. Let me break it down, to do a review :
  
  1) Sound - The sound in this game is pretty good. The soundtrack is very majestic with the orchestral 
 scores, and Chopin's work is a plus. the voice acting is good, if a little wooden ,and the sound 
 effects are standard JRPG whooshes, hits and such. overall, 8 out of 10
  
  2) Graphics - The graphics are great. The Cell shaded look is absolutely awesome, although I must 
 say that as far as cell shaded games go, I liked Dragon Quest 8 better, but this game is beautiful, 
 but some of the animations, like characters always having their arms stretched to their sides unmoving, 
 like dolls, was a tad odd. 7.5 out of 10
  
  3) Gameplay - This is where this game, in my opinion suffers the most. The gameplay segments are 
 short, inter spaced with extremely long Cutscenes, ala Xenosaga, but without the goodness that 
 was Xenosaga's grandiose Sci-Fi epic. The storyline of this game just really doesn't make sense, 
 is terribly long winded, even more so then Xenosaga, and having to play for 15 20 minutes, then 
 watching a half an hour worth of cutscenes just doesn't work with how absolutely boring this storyline 
 is, despite how fun the combat system is with echoes and the special attacks. Also this game is 
 easy. Ridiculously, mind-numbingly easy. It's very easy to essentially have unlimited money, because 
 you can just flash pictures of everything and sell them for ridiculous amounts of gold. 2 out of 
 10
  
  4) Story - Interesting premise. VERY poor execution, both from the meandering dialogue, and the 
 slightly wooden voice acting of some of the characters ( Jazz is almost monotone....) The speech 
 patterns have an almost whimsical note to them, which I think detracts from the storyline, as it 
 tries to be meaty and kiddish at the same time, which I feel is not a good way to project this 
 storyline, considering it takes up 80 % of the game. 3 out of 10
  
  All in all, Eternal Sonata was a great concept that suffered from some very boneheaded decisions 
 on the part of the Producer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SerOlmy
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 3, 2008 9:57 pm PT
Review:  My main grip after playing 2/3 of the game is the disjointed story. A lot of conclusions the characters 
 make seem to have no basis in information that is presented to the player and characters and situations 
 are introduced with no lead-in on a regular basis. The story tends to skip all over the place and 
 repeat information that is already known at some points. They also regularly introduce situations 
 that completely change the flow of the narrative at the very least and don't make sense at all 
 at worst. Some sequences, especially during the monologues don't make a lot of sense, which I have 
 to put down to poor translation from the original Japanese. 
  
  Overall the story (which was the main reason I bought this game) is only passable in my opinion. 
 I defiantly intend finish the game, but unless the story improves dramatically in the last 1/3 
 or so this will be a single play through and I'll probably trade it in afterwards. 
  
  That said the gameplay is genuinely enjoyable. Though it follows the standard jRPG formula, they 
 managed to add enough real time strategic elements and control to make it far more interesting 
 than a standard FF style battle system. I'd have to say at present it is probably the most interesting 
 battle system based on the standard jRPG formula. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fatzmack
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 1, 2008 6:43 pm PT
Review:  An excellent game with great visuals and storytelling. It's actually possible for 360 owners to 
 enjoy a great RPG.
  
  Sidequests are minimal, and there is some rather unnecessary "history lessons" at the beginning 
 of every chapter. Not my cup of tea, but perhaps others will indulge themselves with it.
  
  The character designs are absolutely superb, with the smallest of details worked in. You will not 
 be disappointed. No less on a HDTV.
  
  Game play hasn't been very repetitive, and the combat system is something I've never come across. 
 It's rather innovative and I would like to see more of this type of combat system that deals with 
 light and dark environments, and it's effect on character combat options.
  
  The story is very linear, but it's negated by the craftsmanship put into this amazing game.
  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MNRaven
Rating: 5
Date: Feb 28, 2008 12:49 am PT
Review:  This game does everything half right and the other half wrong. The visuals are terrific. I loved 
 just looking at the scenery, all those colors and backgrounds were inspiring. The characters were 
 fun, and they had great voice actors. Sonata teaches us history with interesting facts about the 
 pianist Chopin. It attempts to teach some musical theory with places and characters being musical 
 terms. The sound is great. A terrific score of Chopin that can get addictive. The bad news is the 
 game play is one directional. At times you want to go back but it does not let you. This storyline 
 tries to be symbolic and inspirational but ends up feeling whiny. In between stages in the game 
 there are long (up to 25 minutes) cinematics where you just want to go to bed and save already. 
 Eternal Sonata was the only game on the XBOX 360 that I was actually upset that I won. I expected 
 this climactic battle at the end and when I got there I just wanted my money back. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: finalchubbs45
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 25, 2008 8:19 am PT
Review:  
  Eternal sonata is an gripping action RPG from start to finish! The battle mechanics are awesome 
 and never really get boring. Ok lets talk about the good stuff. Ok so you get 9 characters to play 
 your party level increases every 10 or 15 levels making it more challenging but gives you the ability 
 to do more damage and incresed chracter movement speed. Also the story line is very confusing and 
 times when it all comes together its a very amazing storyline. the end of the game itself has an 
 excellent ending, Now the mot so good. a lot fo the cut scene are a little to chessey and the voice 
 acting and movement during the cut scenes caoul have been a lot better, and everything especailly 
 your characters are named after some kind of notes, intrument, or singing with the exception of 
 fredric so the names could not have been so chessey and the ending is good but it does leave you 
 wondering what happens with everyone else not Just Alegretto and Polka. Overall this games has 
 so much to offer with a few little flaws that any RPG Lover can get over fast so if you have not 
 played thsi game yet what are you waiting for! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MRxMADxMONKEY
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 21, 2008 7:28 pm PT
Review:  This review won't be as long as my past reviews though, simply because I don't have time to write 
 it, but I'm doing my best. So please work with me here! And on to the review...
  
  The game has a great story, lovable characters, and flawless music, and terrific voice acting. 
 The game is truly beautiful in every way I look at it, the clouds, the grass, the people, the houses, 
 it's all gorgeous. But out of all the reasons to love this game, the fighting is the best of them.
 
  
  Fighting is, as for most RPG haters, the reason we don't enjoy RPGs. It's pick an attack, you watch 
 it. Enemy picks an attack, you watch it. And then you die. However, this game's fights are done 
 in such a way that it should please both RPG and non-RPG fans.
  
  You've got a gauge on the left side of the screen, this gauge lowers as you move and attack, when 
 it reaches the end, your turn is over. This allows you to charge in with one character and leave 
 the others behind to help later on, or charge in with all three characters to completely shred 
 the enemy to pieces. It all just depends on your style. But regardless of what your style is, you'll 
 love this game.
  
  Attacks are preformed for the X, Y, B, and A buttons. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AGamerDiet
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 20, 2008 3:50 pm PT
Review:  I picked the "Worth Playing" classification because I think it fits.... but then "Pretentious" could 
 fit too. Though it is overly preachy and somewhat pretentious I still really enjoyed the game.
 
  
  Graphics: Exceptional. Nice cell shaded cartoon look. I felt like I was watching a well made cartoon.
 
  
  Camera: The static camera worked well and I had no issues with it but boy I wish I had control 
 over it like I did in Overlord. I really would have liked to get a 360 look at the graphics or 
 focus ahead of me sometimes.
  
  Sound (music) was also Exceptional. I felt the classic music was well done and fitting to the environments 
 that were presented.
  
  Sound (environmental) I thought these too were exceptional in some locations, I really felt like 
 I was outside at night. The atmosphere was well presented.
  
  Sound (voice) : Weaker then the other sound categories but not as bad as I thought I would be with 
 children voices and all. They weren't too squeaky but a few were overplayed. Some of the acting 
 was good, some not so much but none really horrible (English soundtrack was what I had it on)
 
  
  Gameplay: The game is quite linear, but that's fine, it's the type of game it is, follow the path. 
 The few times they had "puzzles" actually got a bit annoying because of respawning enemies. For 
 the most part I liked how they did the turn base combat here, even though I expected not to like 
 turn base at all. However it did wear on me after a time of running into the same creatures over 
 and over (on a level) and by the halfway mark I was ready to be done with it.
  
  That being said there is actually a good variety of enemies, it's just on a level you run into 
 the same ones over and over until you move onto the next level. Also most enemies have different 
 forms depending on if they are in light or shadow and this added an interesting strategic option 
 to this game. I liked pretty much all my characters and had a hard time picking which ones I wanted 
 to use (you can use 3 at a time) and you can equip them with lots of different stuff. So as I said 
 there were a lot of options in combat. I think if there had not been respawning enemies or some 
 of the spaces were more open so I could run past them easier and avoid some of the fights, I would 
 not have gotten a bit bored with it.
  
  Cut scenes: This game has them. This game has lots of them. This game has lots of LOOOONNNGGGG 
 ones, you know, the kinds that end up pausing in the middle because your controller fell asleep. 
 For the most part I didn't mind this. I quite enjoyed them and was engaged in the story. As I said 
 it was like watching a good cartoon. I did have a problem with one cut scene.... it was a death 
 scene.... the person wouldn't die, they just kept talking and talking. I also was a bit bored by 
 the end cut scene. It went on for a long long long time and the game really didn't end up where 
 I had hoped and seemed to go off track a bit. Still good though. Heck I even liked the still picture, 
 Chopin history lesson stuff.
  
  So all in all I give this game a thumbs up and am happy someone loaned it to me. I would recommend 
 a purchase at full price and am considering buying it myself (as I had never played a JRPG I borrowed 
 it from someone) . However, even though I liked it and it was a nice long game, it's that very length 
 that may preclude me from playing it again so it's hard to justify the purchase in that case. I 
 do say this is a must play game for the 360 though if you even think you may like this type of 
 game. (Though maybe true JRPG fans will disagree, I don't know, I found it fun) .
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ash2X
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 20, 2008 5:22 am PT
Review:  The Good:
  +Wonderful Graphics
  +Great Soundtrack
  +Unique Storyline
  +Switchable between English and Japanese in the Options-Menu (even in the PAL-Version!)
  +Fast 
 Paced Combat...
  
  The Bad:
  -... which is almost too fast-paced
  -with 25h a bit too short
  
  First off, If you dont like Action-based Fighting-Systems you 
 should give it a try. Even if you are no Fan of the "Tales of" or "Star Ocean"-Series you should 
 take a look. I play RPGs for a looooong time and this one is a RPG I will shurely remember for a 
 long time.
  
  The Graphics:
  Well... this looks exactly what I expected from a Cell-Shading-Game. The whole game looks like a 
 dream-world and thats what it was supposed to be. The Character-acting in the cutscenes is awesome, and 
 the game runs smooth all the time.
  
  The Sound:
  The Music is great! I really love the Soundtrack. It fits perfect and really supports the Atmosphere. In 
 some Cutscenes you even hear Chopins works. You can switch between English and Japanese Voices 
 in the Options-Menu, which are both great spoken... What you want more?
  
  The Gameplay:
  The Game itself is totally straight forward and filled with cutscenes around every corner. But the 
 dungeons itself are very entertaining and the difficulty could be a problem for beginners at the 
 start of the game. I had no problems, but a friend of mine was complaining. Theres a Bonus-Dungeon 
 later whos really challenging.
  Since the Fighting-System doesnt include magic in a traditional meaning, it could get a bit too 
 hectical and fast-paced, but when the Team-Lv goes up the rules of fighting are always written new 
 and keep the whole thing interesting until the end and you wont really miss it.
  The Storyline is interesting until the end and keeps you watching all those cutscenes until the 
 end, even if there are some who could be shorter.
  Great thing that jokes doesnt come too short, a thing I miss in most RPGs the last years. Plus you 
 learn a bit about Chopin and see a lot of wonderful picures of the places he has been :-)
  
  Too bad its only 20-30h long, but after all you have a "New Game+" which keeps some items and 
 Team-Lv and you need to finish it twice to get all archivements.
  
  So...:
  This is a great RPG, who lets you take place in Story in a unique and wonderful made dreamworld. Even 
 if it got its shortcomings, I didnt really see them a really bad while playing and so I think 
 its a RPG no Fan should miss. Eternal Sonata manages to be unique without re-inventing something 
 really new or screw up. I dont think you will see a compareable game soon. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MetalObsession
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 17, 2008 5:29 am PT
Review:  Honestly when I first read about this I was intrigued but also expected it to be very mediocre. 
 Man was I pleasantly surprised when I actually bought the game. Starting with the visuals, this 
 game offers incredible artwork that makes you not want to take your eyes off the screen for even 
 a second. Secondly the music. I have always enjoyed Szopen's music whenever I heard it but never 
 really went deeply into researching more but thanks to Eternal Sonata that has changed. I am now 
 a huge fan and he has become one of my favorite composers. Lastly the game play in Eternal Sonata 
 is everything I would want in an RPG. The special attacks were fun and creative. The game was just 
 right as far as difficulty goes and I have no real criticisms to share. If you claim to be a fan 
 of RPG's than you should definitely pick this one up! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: plakskull
Rating: 5.5
Date: Feb 16, 2008 10:56 pm PT
Review:  Critical to the success of an RPG is the suspension of disbelief and personal investment in the 
 characters. Never in my life have I played a game where the characters so absolutely in love with 
 hearing themselves speak.
  
  Firstly, between every sluggish, over-dramatized line of dialogue lies a four second pause. I assume 
 that the reason for this is so the player can take the time to try to understand the idiotic pseudo-philosophical 
 contrivances the characters regularly discuss, but this unnecessarily drags the pacing of the game 
 to a crawl.
  
  Secondly, even in mundane situations, the characters invariably take the time to wax poetic about 
 the meaning of life, the universe and everything.
  
  Thirdly, while at the outset, the game seems to be laying down a foundation for a solid story, 
 upon completion, you will find that there is very little follow through. It seems as though the 
 story was cut short for some reason, as it seems to pick an arbitrary time in the story to rush 
 you through the endgame.
  
  Fourthly, speculative cutscenes about Chopin's possible political views and musical inspirations 
 during his life are jammed arbitrarily into the middle of the story, thereby disrupting any attempt 
 you would make to immerse yourself in the game environment.
  
  Lastly, the achievements are obscene. Upon playing this game the entire way through, the most you 
 can possibly get is 340 out of 1000 achievement points. You must play the entire game over a second 
 time to get the remainder.
  
  There are some decent aspects to the game, however. The music is beautiful (as you would expect 
 from a game about the life of a master composer) , the environments are lush and well imagined and 
 the unique battle system is interesting. This does not outweigh the shallowness of the characters, 
 the lack of changes to the character models as they update weapons and equipment, the extremely 
 linear gameplay, and the horrendously disappointing ending.
  
  All in all, I regret having picked this game up. If you are looking for an enthralling story with 
 deep character development, rapid pacing and flexible character customization, you'd do well to 
 look elsewhere. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bowlerry
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 14, 2008 10:36 am PT
Review:  This is a quick review which explains the basics of the game.
  
  Basic Story:
  
  So Eternal Sonata is a RPG which tells the story of Chopin who was a amazing musician, who is in 
 a comer who is dreaming of a virtual life who meets many different characters, who you play as 
 and all play differently.
  
  Game play:
  
  At the start of game the game play is simple but as the game progresses it becomes a lot deeper, 
 but with the game taking 20ish hours it begins to get repetitive. Like i said there are many playable 
 characters who all play differently some slow and strong, some fast but weak etc.
  choosing who to use is very very difficult. 
  
  Graphics:
  
  AMAZING looking cartooney 
 style graphics, characters look good, the scenery is very nice, and nice looking monsters and boss's.
 
  
  BOSSES: There are A lot of bosses which begin easy, but later on in the game become a challenge 
 and are very fun to fight.
  
  Music: With music from the legend Chopin in this game we know the music will be top.
  
  If 
 you like JRPGS then this is the game for you.
  
  Pros: The graphics are amazing
  Game play is great which grows deeper and evolving as you play
  Great music and voice acting 
 
  Memorable and plenty of boss battles
  nice and fun story
  It's a Long game.
  
  Cons: Game play can get boring and repetitive after a while.
  Voice acting is not the best
 
  
  That was hard thinking of cons
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: EcksBocks360
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 13, 2008 12:30 pm PT
Review:  There was alittle misunderstanding that caused me to completely forget this game when it came out. 
 It was just something about it that made me pass. 
  Maybe it was the girlish-looking cover. Maybe it was the Childish art design. Or, maybe it was 
 the possibility that it would turn out to be another run-of-the-mill Japanese RPG. But one day, 
 I was walking around in Game Crazy looking for something cheap (20-40 bucks with MVP card) and 
 I saw this game on the shelves and I figured why not try it out? So I bought it and waited for 
 my RRoD'd 360 to come back, and started playing it.
  
  The game is just amazing, first and foremost. Part of the game is based on a true story, where 
 the famous Pianist, Frederic Chopin is dying of a terminal Illness, and While Sleeping, He starts 
 dreaming of this imaginary fantasy world, where the majority of the story takes place. 
  
  You start the game as a girl named Polka, one of the people in Chopin's dream, who meets Chopin. 
 The two of them go on a quest to Castle Forte, where Polka wants to discuss unfair taxes on certain 
 goods with the king. On the way they meet many characters who join Chopin and Polka on their quest, 
 and they encounter dangerous enemies, dungeons and bosses.
  
  The gameplay is also well-designed. The combat features combinations of turnbased gameplay as well 
 as real-time. When it is your turn to make a move, you have about 5 or 6 seconds to move around 
 the area and use as many attacts or spells as you want. The same goes for enemies
  
  The graphics in the game can be good or bad depending on which parts of it you look at. If you're 
 talking about character models or effects, then the game looks exceptionally well, now on the other 
 hand, backgrounds and environments look worse than a 5 year old ps2 game, but we're talking about 
 Japanese RPG's here, so if you can remember that, then you won't pull you're hair out because of 
 it.
  
  Eternal Sonata, overall a game that should be played by any RPG gamer, because it never becomes 
 too unbalanced or hectic to ruin the experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HellaStoned
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 12, 2008 4:46 pm PT
Review:  This game is pretty good, but it's among the worst times I've ever had playing an RPG. I bought 
 it for full price, and I'll probably end up selling it before I even finish it.
  
  I love RPGs, especially some japenese ones like the FF series, but this games falls flat compared 
 to those. It's shallow. There's only like 1 type of hidden thing, and it's a partial bar of music 
 which you then have to find other music players in the world to combine it with. That there is 
 all there is to the game besides running down a largely linear path running into enemies and defeating 
 them so easily I could do it blind. I'm serious there's not even a world map. In addition to all 
 this, money is so easy to aquire, it's virtually infinite.
  
  I can't leave out the good things like the graphics, they're really something else. Overall artistic 
 design is very well done too. Towns are beautiful and characters look really really cool. It's 
 been a while since I looked forward to cutscenes! The story was very good. Very original.
  
  The part that drags the game down the most is it being too easy. It gets boring and although 
 there is a fun twist or two in fight system, it's basically run at the enemy and tap, tap, tap. 
 I would call this FF light, but it would be more like FF light light light light light.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: huskerman34
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 6, 2008 11:28 am PT
Review:  When i first read about Eternal Sonata i wasnt too impressed with the game. I thought i was going 
 to be a kiddy rpg. I just rented it a couple of days ago and was impressed from the begging. The 
 character detail and background is very detailed. The gameplay is very decent. My only regret is 
 not playing this game earlier. Eternal Sonata is a turn in the right direction for ps2 like game 
 porting to 360 and ps3. Square-Enix, Namco Bandai and Capcom should think about this and maybe 
 we will see a Dragon Quest, Radiata Story, Suikoden, WIldarm , And Star Ocean coming to the next 
 gen when i mean next gen i mean 360, ps3. IT seemed like my favorite genre was going to die or be 
 ported over to psp or ds. I really wish that this type of genre sticks around a little longer . 
 I really dont like the way the rpg gaming is going. ITs oblivion or mmo. WE all know what happens 
 in mmo DRama no progressin real money trading and no one wanting to help you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SemiMaster
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 6, 2008 11:21 am PT
Review:  When you look at Eternal Sonata from a distance you see a heavily anime inspired visual aesthetic 
 with a wonderful score coupled to a real world figure, namely Frederic Francois Chopin (who is 
 dying of Tuberculosis and this game "supposedly takes place in his dream. That' not a spoiler, 
 he says it the second you meet him) . What you don't see is the repetitive nature of the game, the 
 linearity of it all, the uselessness of some characters both to the story and combat and the overall 
 story is more confused than a boxer who just went 10 rounds with Mike Tyson. This game had a lot 
 of potential and visually it is stunning, although like the game itself, repetitive and confusing.
 
  
  Gameplay : The gameplay is simple. Walk around, fight monsters. Engage them from the front, you 
 get even footing. Whoever is fastest goes, as per usual RPG conventions. You strike from behind, 
 you get first strike. The enemy attacks from behind, they get first strike.
  
  Upon entering combat, you have the ability to move around and then take action (usually mashing 
 the A button followed by the Y button for special attacks) . You start at infinte time to plan, 
 and then have 4 seconds to do whatever you can, but as the story progresses, you move along in 
 power, but get less time to plan, and eventually less time to attack. This is called your party 
 level, for more information, read up on it in the forums or play the game as each set will explain 
 what goes on and what is lost and what is gained.
  
  As you do gain party levels, you can eventually counterattack, but like regular blocking, it is 
 quite hard to do, as precise timing of hitting a certain button is called for when the button flashes. 
 All attacks have different timing, and enemies can block too.
  
  Generally, the more hits you make, the more time you get (it refills your gauge) . Faster characters 
 may do less damage per hit, but will hit more often. This makes a lot of difference as you build 
 up "echoes". Think of it as a power level. For every 4 (or multiple of 4) echoes (hits) you make 
 without the enemy blocking you reach another tier of damage you can do with your special move. 
 Later on you can unleash a harmony chain (higher party level is needed) . This allows characters 
 to do more than one special attack in a row (they take a long time, usually more than you are alloted 
 for action, which is why you do them at the end of a turn) .
  
  Aside from that general outline. You have light and dark attacks. There are shadows and light on 
 the field from rocks, trees, overhead clouds, being indoors, etc. They affect what special moves 
 you do. Dark usually attacks, light is where healing spells come in (only a few characters can 
 use them) . However, I find for the most part that healing items do more than what is necessary 
 to keep your party alive after the first few party levels. 
  
  Now the biggest problems with the gameplay are the following (and there are a ton) .
  
  1.) 
 Some characters SUCK. Namely Salsa and March. To a lesser extent, Polka and Beat aren't very good. 
 Why? They either do little damage, have low HP, or any combination of negatives. However on the 
 other side of the spectrum, Allegretto, Falsetto and Jazz all are incredibly powerful.
  
  Granted I am only one person here with one play through, but it is painfully obvious which characters 
 are better overall than others. Slow attack + low damage = why use it?
  
  2.) So, do you like onions? I hope so. Because you will be fighting a ton of them, or any of the 
 half dozen color variants of the same 15 to 20 monsters found throughout the game. Yes, you fight 
 mere palette swaps most of the game. Same techniques, same appearance, same combat tactics, same 
 on all aspects but color and more damage dealt. That's IT. If it's not an onion, it's a fish or 
 a bird. Seriously.
  
  3.) Saving. There are some dungeons which are immensely long, and have NO save spots for half a 
 dozen screens (really long ones) . Other times I have seen 3 save spots in 3 consecutive screens. 
 I mean come on really? You think the game is going to freeze on us if someone sneezes? Oh wait, 
 it does... *more on that later*
  
  4.) Aside from the lame "session playing" where you just match up a song you found to someone elses, 
 there are a few puzzles which mostly involve hitting a few nodes in order and generally more back 
 tracking. Other than that, there are no minigames, no driving, nothing else noteworthy. Zero, zip, 
 zilch, nein, nada, and for the Gs in the hood, ne'er nada no naans knaamean? Hell... Blue Dragon 
 had way more extra gameplay features in terms of minigames and such.
  
  5.) Again, NO MAP. Unacceptable. Considering you will get lost. This hurt games like Shadow Hearts 
 in my opinion and any RPG should have map with today's technology.
  
  6.) Enemies give you very little money. How do you solve that problem? Take a few pictures with 
 Beat (his generally only useful reason to be in the game) , sell 'em for thousands of gold each. 
 Oh, 3 hours into the game and I have a million gold (more than I spent my entire time playing) . 
 Something is rotten in Denmark here. Again, a total unbalancing of the gameplay.
  
  7.) This ties back to character balance. Some enemies are very hard. Namely Pirate Dolce, and your 
 weak selection of characters there won't help. However later on, you get all your characters and 
 with just a little bit of leveling, good weapons and knowing how to play the game, you don't even 
 need to heal in a dungeon, with the exception of bosses. So overall, this game is easy outside 
 of some tough nuts to crack.
  
  In all, it is a functional game with interesting combat mechanics, but highly button mashy, repetitive 
 an generally unbalanced towards certain characters.
  
  Gameplay = 6 out of 10
  
  Graphics : 
  Graphically at first this game is flawless. Like a living water color anime in a 
 full high def cutscene that isn't prerendered. Amazing. It's a true treat to see the entire visible 
 spectrum represented in a work of art, and Eternal Sonata does it well.
  The art style in the real world cutscenes at Frederic's deathbed look to be done in a realisic 
 style, while the majority of the game takes place in the stylized anime watercolor aesthetic with 
 exotic clothing with all sorts of flourishes, designs and shapes.
  
  The main protagonists and antagonists all have a very diverse and unique style which complements 
 their attitudes and behaviors. Although I don't get why EVERY character holds their arms out to 
 the side like they are doing the Iron Cross or are a steroid shooting freak who's chest is so large 
 their arms can't fall to their sides... But no one is like that in this game so I'm going to assume 
 they are trying out for the Olympics.
  
  The little details like moving lizards in the forest, a crab on the beach, shifting clouds, fluttering 
 butterflies, etc, all add to the immersive quality.
  
  But as you go on, the game is just a repetition of the same floor or area before it. The lack of 
 map makes it hard to navigate in some places seeing as most things look just like one another.
 
  
  As said before, enemies are palette swaps. This takes a hit on the graphical front. I mean fighting 
 the same onion with different shades of green and brown only is fun for the first 5 times, then 
 it gets uncreative.
  
  The graphics are nice, a nice change in color and style and wonderfully animated, but a lot of 
 repetition brings the score down a peg.
  
  Graphics = 9 out of 10
  
  Sound :
  
  You'd think a game about the life of a famous pianist would be amazing sonically? It is. 
  
 
  The soundtrack is composed of Chopin's works in the middle of real world cutscenes telling the 
 tale of Chopin's real life and how his songs reflect his inner feelings of what is going on around 
 him while contrasting that to a fantasy fare which is highly reminiscent of the Star Ocean series.
 
  
  The giant halls of Baroque Castle are filled with a regal with the whole court of instruments, 
 caves are eerie and dark melodies with chimes and percussion instruments, battle music is thumping 
 and energetic.
  
  The sound effects in combat are numerous, each enemy reacts to being struck, different attacks 
 do different sound effects. The characters have special phrases that go with each different attack, 
 and they launch into some sort of nonsensical diatribe of "The frost is on the mountain, a single 
 touch" or something that is probably poorly translated.
  
  The overall voice acting is incredible. Allegretto is upbeat and happy, Polka is very somber and 
 melancholy (I'm impressed how much the artists can always make her look like she's crying but not 
 be while maintaining that edge of timidity) , Frederic is a brooding emo for some reason. The only 
 voice actor who really is annoying is Salsa. She seems to be half Southern half... I dunno? Britney 
 Spears? Faux accents for the loss. 
  
  The voice acting ensemble is for the most part ones you will recognize from many anime and other 
 video game works, so you're in good company.
  
  Sound = 9 out of 10
  
  Value : While I found this game excruciating to play at times due to the nonsensical plot not wanting 
 me to play the mediocre gameplay, it did clock in at a solid 24 hours + a literally 30+ minute 
 ending sequence. I didn't bother with the secret extra boss dungeon because my disc kept crashing 
 my 360 (A problem others have had) , and a second playthrough encore supposedly enhances the game's 
 playtime. In all, one playthrough is pretty short for an RPG.
  
  Personally I am not interested in playing it again, but there is more to do, and second playthrough 
 will unlock more achievements and is harder for more of a challenge.'
  
  Value = 7 out of 10
  
  Tilt :
  I wanted to love this game, I really did. The incorporation 
 of music into everything, the name of the towns, the characters, the sound effects, everything 
 is the basis for a good game's foundation. But the story is so poorly crafted I can't overlook 
 the generic gameplay. 
  
  Let me try and explain it again. 
  
  
  
  ******************Some Spoilers*********************
 
  
  ******************Only general plot*******************
  
  ******************Major spoilers are *****************
  
  
 
  
  ******************End Warning***********************
  
  Chopin is dying of Tuberculosis. Polka is dying from her having magic. Some bad guys in Forte (name 
 of a city) outlaw using floral powder (a local remedy) but decrease the price of mineral powder. 
 They are at war with Baroque. Something about a glowing Agogo. The party gets arrested and escape, 
 meet up with some resistance fighters for Baroque against Forte. They then split up for some reason, 
 then go to the resistance's base (where you go on some generic busy mission to rescue some dumb 
 kid who as NO bearing on the story) , then to Baroque. Then they have to run back home. All the 
 meanwhile Polka cries about she's dying, but won't give up. Allegretto is aloof but happy, Beat 
 just sucks. The party gets back together, for some reason they have to go kill some ghost in another 
 busywork mission.
  
  Then they go back to Baroque to meet the Prince who wants to make peace
  with Forte (who is a 
 bad guy, reasons omitted) . Cue 3rd useless busywork mission that has no bearing on what you are 
 doing in the story except for a convenient plot device to return a missing character to your party 
 which could have easily been done in town. Then the prince runs away to ask for piece. But you 
 get attacked, in which Polka turns out to be important for some reason.... which is never fully 
 explained after the badguy bails. Then they head back to Baroque to take some mysterious portal 
 to some far away land of spirits (Which is never explained why they are there) . Then you do some 
 more busywork to open a gate, then you do more busywork to fill in some sand to fight some monster 
 which you saw from before, but once he is killed you get no explanation.
  
  Then the final boss... which was a total mind**** and unexpected. Then some nonsensical ending 
 about Polka going back in time to see her mother, then being restored while listening to Chopin's 
 soliloquy. Nothing is answered at all about who what when where why.
  
  You do get treated to some preaching during the credits about taking control of your life, protect 
 the environment, don't do drugs, be thankful you live in a time of peace and don't live under a 
 military rule who invades other countries.
  
  So... what is this game about?
  
  1.) Polka's mysterious powers and illness?
  2.) Allegretto getting a job?
  3.) Forte's ambition?
 
  4.) Jazz and Falsetto's place in the world in terms of the resistance?
  5.) What's the deal with Chopin?
  6.) Why were Salsa and March included in this game?
  
  
 None of these get answered and the whole story feels contrived and definitely unanswered.
  
  If the game chose to focus on one thing at a time... or heaven forbid, explain them, then I'd 
 be much happier, as the characters ARE likeable and the story has some good spots, but I've said 
 this before.
  
  The story is like a retarded monkey banging a jigsaw puzzle together with a mallet. No matter how 
 beautiful the individual pieces the overall puzzle will be broken and missing parts (the latter 
 is especially true, as there were very awkward transitions, as if things were left out of the game) .
 
  
  Tilt = 6 out of 10
  
  Recap:
  Gameplay : 6 out of 10
  Graphics : 9 out of 10
  Sound : 9 out of 10
  Value : 7 out of 10
  Tilt : 6 out of 10
  Old Gamespot Score = 6.8
 
  Current Overall = 7.0
  
  Pros:
  + Amazing Graphics, refreshing to see all colors used. Interesting watercolor anime aesthetic
 
  + Great sound in the similar style of Star Ocean
  + Quality voice acting (with the exception of Salsa, who isn't bad, just annoying) .
  + A good 
 message of peace and making life count...
  
  Cons:
  - Too bad most of that message was lost due to incredibly poor storytelling and jumping around.
 
  - A LOT of repetition in design, combat and just overall
  - A LOT of busywork
  - Balance/Usefulness issues. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Leakybubbles
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 6, 2008 3:22 pm PT
Review:  Before I bought this game and I just tried a demo the first thing that cought my eye was it's unique 
 style of graphics and how it was like an old time RPG with a nice story and unique characters. 
 Then as I started to play I liked it alot. The Battle System,
  
  THE BATTLE SYSTEM:
  turn based - live action
  
  \ You basicly take turns with your characters and slash the heck 
 out of your apponent. You also in the process can use magic or items. But watch out cuz you have 
 a time limit of how long you can do things with each character to make it fair. Then it's the enemies 
 turn and they can attack u for a limit of time and so on and on.
  
  The story is sad and exciting at the same time. The voice acting is pretty good also. And another 
 thing is that the MUSIC is amazing. I just fell in love with the game.
  
  So I rented it and loved it more as I got further, there are plenty of characters and cool cutsceens 
 you will find along the way.
  
  Then Christmas I got the game! woohoo! And I can tell you it was worth the 60. Maybe not to my 
 parents /\ /\ but to me.
  
  it feels like a good rpg. we havn't had one of those in a long while. it has great music, great 
 graphics, a great story that is lengthly and fun.
  
  I love this game, and I believe if you love RPGs you will too. So give it a chance, it will be 
 a purchase worth while.
  
  
  (EDIT)
  
  ok so i beat the game and i changed it from 8.5 to 9.0 this game only got better as it went on. 
 u will love it.
  
  trust me this game is long and worth ur money. if im wrong disagree with me all u want. this game 
 is purley fun and if u get into it it can be a very enjoyable experience.
  
  9.0 
::::::

::::::
UserName: whitehawk_77
Rating: 6.5
Date: Feb 4, 2008 8:29 am PT
Review:  Yet another RPG that if properly tuned before realease could have been great. The story in the 
 game is interesting but predictable. Every time it reaches for a depth that it never grasps it 
 leaves a sour taste in your mouth. Like piano, you would much rather hear a simple tune played 
 perfectly than a complex one off key. Then there is the battle system. In the beginning it is not 
 bad, but as you go along the "difficulty" rises. With each new party level more restrictions are 
 added than advantages which can be frustrating because the new complications do not take more skill 
 just more time. While boss battles are a little more fun, because you do more damage, regular battle 
 becomes tedious and drawn out. Another aspect of the game is after beating a stage a Chopin piece 
 will play and words will describe his life around the time the music was composed. Again something 
 that would have been great except they do not have much to say so they leave the same words on 
 the screen for way too long so that the explanation will last through the entire piece. All this 
 does is cause boredom. They provide you the option of listening to any piece that you have unlocked 
 so why make us listen to the entire thing during a narrative that would not normally take half 
 as long to read. Not to mention after drudging through the entire game you only receive 340 achievement 
 points max and will have to play through again for the rest.
  Could have been great but in the end is only fair. Sadly this is a recent trend in RPGs that I 
 hoped Eternal Sonata might have overcome.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yogizilla
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 4, 2008 6:03 am PT
Review:  While I did not play through the entire game, from what little I did get to play of Eternal Sonota, 
 I was very impressed. It's not the deepest game of it's kind and the gameplay is quite linear but 
 the dazzling cinematics, moving soundtrack, and gripping story make up for it. The little details 
 go a long way. Baddies look really cool.
  
  Really, this game reminds me of Little Nemo in an RPG setting. Old-school RPGers may think this 
 is the same old thing but, as you play the game more, it really grows on you. I am not a sucker 
 for eye candy and fluff but the artistic quality of the game is very compelling.
  
  Don't be fooled, though: this game is as deep as it should be and it does offer some nice little 
 innovations. The party system and battle systems are great, though not without their cliches. Overall, 
 I'd say this is a good game to get when you want a break from the countless look-alike titles out 
 there on next-gen consoles. It's a good game to rent or borrow, most definitely. Heck, I'd buy 
 it too. It truly is an enchanting title. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jg4xchamp
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 3, 2008 12:30 am PT
Review:  Eternal Sonota is the first really good japanese rpg on the Xbox 360. While the game may have some 
 flaws it is a very, very good game. The artstyle is simply great. The gameplay will get repetitive 
 soon, but all in all it is alot more fun than the cookie cutter turn based gameplay in games like 
 Blue Dragon or Final Fantasy in some cases. 
  
  So lets start the rundown. 
  
  Graphics- 9- SImply put the visuals in this game are just impressive. The artstyle is beautiful 
 and the world shown is just simply charming. The characters are also very well done and all in 
 all this game is definantly a looker. 
  
  Gameplay-8- Like i said the gameplay will get repetitive. The combat really isnt anything special, 
 and majority of the side quests really fall under the same concept of getting notes. Which you 
 will have to play a second time through to actually finish the giant sidequest. In terms of combat, 
 there is some little depth. For instance there are timed meters, giving you only a certain amount 
 of time to get as many hits in. After you have piled on so many hits, a special attack becomes 
 even more impressive, as you level on in the game you will find that you can do 2 specials at once 
 or connect the special attacks of 2 characters for a final blow. It may not be amazing combat, 
 but in some cases it is fun and actually addictive for a little while. Plus the bosses will definanlty 
 force you to be strategic and on your toes. 
  
  Sound-9- What? the music is really, really good. Some really good stuff. The problem is the dialogue 
 really. ITs not terrible, but it does have its moments where you would probably rather hear it 
 in Japanese. However, like i said before the music is just awesome. The voice actors most of the 
 characters are good most of the time, outside of a couple of moments with characters like Beat 
 and Polka. 
  
  Value-8 Eternal SOnota is not a very long game by Japanese RPG standards. There are some fun side 
 missions around the end, to bring some characters back but all in all you could finish the game 
 in around 25 hours. The second time through is longer mainly because its more difficult. However 
 the story, gameplay, and being that it is a solid title, i dont see many complaining about paying 
 60 bucks for a good single player game. 
  
  Concept/intangibles- 9 This score is basically for the story and themes. There are many dark and 
 mature themes behind the cute RPG look of the game. Such as politics, poor vs. rich, death, war, 
 racisim, society, etc WHile all of that is good, the main story its hidden behind doesnt exactly 
 deliver in all areas. THe main heroes go on a journey to reason with the count on mineral powder 
 a substance that has some negative effects on the users. Polka needs it to stop so she can help 
 sell more floral powder. All of this is just a smokescreen for Chopin and his dream. In fact the 
 entire story is CHopin's dream before he dies. The game tends to not just get confusing with its 
 story, but actually more of a what the heck? ITs not that the game gets to complex, as much as 
 the overall story just doesnt flow around the end. It takes a sudden shift from here to there to 
 often. Minor complaints, but still the big factor for the score of 9 on intangibles was because 
 of the undenying charm of the game. Besides the beauty, its ability to maintain such dark themes 
 and mature themes behind such a lush world is just brilliant. THe concept is new and refreshing. 
 THe music is just great, and the little history lesson on chopin just shows you what the guy has 
 been through. 
  
  Tilt- 8- I enjoyed the game, but i wouldnt rank it among my favorite japanese rpgs. It was solid 
 and very good in many areas. But some mistakes, design choices ultimately leave this game behind 
 some of the better japanese rpgs. 
  
  Overall- 8.0.....8.2 if you want more of an oldschool gamespot score. THe game is fun, its refreshing 
 in some ways, dated in others, and ok some ways. Its solid. Its a good rpg. IF you enjoy japanese 
 rpgs and dont mind a dungeon crawler in some cases, than this game will definantly satisfy. Its 
 not anything special for the genre, but the game is charming, fun, and really well done. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SuperBlueMonkey
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 2, 2008 7:36 am PT
Review:  Once I was a big fan of RPGs, Eastern and Western but it was always the Eastern RPGs that would 
 grab the most attention for me personally. After quite a long and dull period of non-existent, 
 decent RPGs to come out I lost a bit of interest and decided to look towards more original titles 
 to satisfy me or play some old classics whilst waiting for something new. Stories from Japanese 
 RPGs have always had more depth than Western RPGs, more characterisation anyway. However Japanese 
 RPGs have a formula for their stories. There's a point where the story attempts to carry an important 
 message across to the audience about the way the real world is and what needs to be done to help 
 ourselves and it live. Eternal Sonata is no different and uses this formula to the extent where 
 it's not truly recognisable until the long and drawn out ending.
  
  The ending doesn't exactly satisfy and makes the whole game turn around and go up its own ass. 
 However, whilst I was disappointed with some relationships between characters lacking conclusions 
 and having only the main storyline quest interest me (there seemed to be hardly any side quests 
 on offer) I cannot stress how absolutely amazing and gripping the graphics are on the characters 
 and some of the set pieces. The gameplay keeps one interested but lacks a little bit of variety 
 with battles and abilities. Basically being a cross between Grandia 2 and a scrolling beat-em-up, 
 it comprises strategy with button bashing and creates a very entertaining turn-based system. Music 
 is great but slightly typical with excellent use of music by a pianist called Chopin. The fictional 
 story of the game plays along side the true story of this musician and makes for a very original 
 turn in video game RPGs and a welcome turn at that. However the english dialogue couldn't be stomached 
 by me and it was a matter of seconds before switching it to Japanese with English subtitles.
  
  Whilst there is a deep feeling held within the narrative of Eternal Sonata, it's lack of exploration 
 of relationships and slightly boring and corny hidden message, though true, is quite a large let 
 down by the end. The game is carried on its simply astonishing graphics and enjoyable gameplay 
 and keeps its player interested with the true story of Chopin and its cutscenes. But half way through 
 you'll be feeling that this is quite a surprise only to be thinking it could've been so much better 
 by the end. It's certainly worth checking out though. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xXChronopolis
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 12, 2008 6:55 pm PT
Review:  The storyline starts off slow and then picks up not far from the start. It has you glued to the 
 screen sparing some sappy parts that the whole game could go without. 
  
  ONLY thing bad about the game is the ending and all the hypothetical meaning that is put into it. 
 It drives you away from the storyline and leaves you hanging. An easy comeback could be made by 
 releasing a sequel of sorts but with the team producing the whole game for the PS3 and adding more 
 content to that, any fan of the idea of a sequel will probably be disappointed. 
  
  Apart from that one letdown, the game is magnificent. With such a unique and bold battle engine 
 that incorporates the use of your surroundings (something that i personally have never seen done 
 before) and an overall good storyline; there is no way you can go wrong by renting this game. 
 
  
  If i was a fan of tremendous replay value, i would have bought the game instantaneously. check 
 it out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xsubtownerx
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 30, 2008 8:36 pm PT
Review:  If you have a secret love affair for JRPGs and Anime, this game should satisfy you in everyway. 
 I, for one, am not an Anime type of guy, but I do enjoy JRPGs. Eternal Sonata delivers a surprisingly 
 interesting story in a well designed world that is fun to play in. The battle system in this game 
 is probably one of the coolest forms or turned based battles I've ever seen. However, the game 
 isn't very challenging as far as battles are concerned, and the game its self is pretty short. 
 About 20-25 hours long (short) . Also, the cutscenes tend to drag on a little too much. But they 
 are fun too look at. Also, money and most items are basically useless in the game, which again 
 makes the game a little too easy.
  
  But if you're looking for a good JRPG game to fill in the gaps (When the game you want is only 
 coming out in a few weeks) , I'd recommend giving this game a try.
  
  *Why does Polka have man-hands? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BlOoDyDeAtH360
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 30, 2008 12:04 am PT
Review:  This is one great RPG. it is cel-shaded so if you dont like games like that then you most likely 
 wont be playing this RPG anyway. On that note, this is one amazing RPG. It can be long or short 
 depending on if you go for all the achievements in the game. overall id say the game takes around 
 35 to 40 hours in your first play through if you really take your time and do as much as you can 
 (like i did) and even longer if you want all of the achievements in the game because 5 of them 
 require a second play trhough (you can get a total of 17 of the 22 achievements in one play-through 
 but the other 5 require a second) the characters are really interesting (to me anyways) and at 
 a couple parts in the game you play as two different groups (at the begenning you play as Polka 
 then you play as Beat and Allegrato once you reach Polka's village then when you do what you have 
 to do with Beat and Allegrato you play as Polka again then shortly after that you meet then later 
 on when you have more characters ya'll get split up and have to play two different groups again) 
 i really enjoyed this game and i think any RPG fan out there will. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Drmagicass
Rating: 3.5
Date: Jan 26, 2008 10:12 am PT
Review:  It was obvious when playing this game that someone who doesn't speak English well wrote this lame 
 script. The whole game ends up being these annoying little battles, and everything else is just 
 so they can put it in the RPG catagory. It is a horrid, annoying game. There is no point. Watching 
 the little scenes is like torture. Also, the 'beautiful' landscapes are more like candy land, less 
 like art. The music of Chopin really has nothing to do with it either. They play it between levels 
 while pictures of who knows what flash by and are given subtitles that were translated by a 5th 
 grade Japanese student. Please. I gave it an honest chance and it was the worst game I've ever 
 bought. I don't understand who has given it a good review. Anyone with any sort of taste in music 
 or art will be greatly offended by this waste of $60. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mewt2021
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 24, 2008 10:52 am PT
Review:  The 360 hasn't been big on RPG's, mostly because it isn't a big multi-player market. So when I 
 first heard of this game I figured it would be a big bust. But when I played the demo, I fell in 
 love with the game. The story was very original and so in-depth. The characters are very memorable 
 an given that everyone's name is music related makes it better. The style of combat was fun and 
 innovative. I don't play many RPG's that use turn base real time so it was nice to see it in this 
 game. Of course they had to do that style of combat, how else would they make the game multi-player! 
 The last RPG I played that was multi-player was Tales of Symphonia on Game Cube. It's always nice 
 to play a game as good as this one with friends. I think more RPG's should be made like that. The 
 graphics on the game focused more on color then texture. The shadowing used with the colors of 
 the landscape and the characters makes everything look more artistic and nostalgic. The game should 
 have won best RPG this year but Mass Effect fell under that category ( I don't see why) and won 
 it. Must own for all RPG fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chetorch
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 22, 2008 3:56 pm PT
Review:  Just wanted to voice out my opinion here. I can't say I play many RPG games, but I have played 
 two on the 360- Enchanted Arms and Phantasy Star Universe. both games are fun, but the graphics 
 are abysmal, with the exception of some of the cut scenes from Enchanted Arms.
  I Haven't finished this game yet, but I think its great! the game play can be challenging at times 
 but simple enough to not have to study the manual like if there was gonna be a test on it the next 
 day. mostly, the graphics are The greatest! I don't mean to say that the visuals count more than 
 a game's content, but it makes the game so much better. (Kane and Lynch anyone? baaad. Gears Of 
 War? goood!) the point I am trying to, well, point out is Eternal Sonata may not be the next Final 
 Fantasy, but so far its the best RPG on the 360. can't wait to experience Lost Odyssey though! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Domstercool
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 22, 2008 5:40 pm PT
Review:  Over the past couple of years as we entered the "next-generation" of consoles, companies have managed 
 to give us a few "Wow" moments at how games have been portrayed. Games like Crysis, Gears of War 
 and Project Gotham Racing 4 have shown us how gritty and realistic-looking games can get. With 
 the new power opened up to the developers, graphics have been pushed into a new area with fancy 
 techno-babble effects, but all so far have been looking the same. There have been debates about 
 whether games are art or not, but there's certainly no doubt from time to time that games can look 
 beautiful without having to look realistic, it's all down to how the developer chooses to display 
 their ideas through the screen to the gamer. Examples of this are games like Okami and the cel-shaded 
 Legend of Zelda: The Wind Waker. Both those games have a striking art direction that made you feel 
 warm and fuzzy inside. The wait is now over for that emotion to be felt in this next line of consoles.
 
  
  Tri-Crescendo, the company we have to thank for Eternal Sonata and its beauty, isn't particularly 
 old. The founder Hiroya Hatsushiba was a sound programmer and his section, Tri-Crescendo was responsible 
 for sound in a few of Tri-Ace's games. Now Tri-Crescendo bring their first fully internally developed 
 game (Baten Kaitos had help from Monolith Soft.) for the 360. Apart from the lovely anime inspired 
 graphical approach, Eternal Sonata is chock full of musical inspiration, from levels to characters. 
 It's certainly a little weird seeing all these places and characters with names like Polka, Beat, 
 and Allegretto, but then again it also shows that Mr Chopin (the main character) is still thinking 
 about music even when he's on death's door, and that kind of makes sense in a way. It was probably 
 his dream to live in a world of music.
  
  This musical inspiration is instantly noticed from the get go. The story revolves around a composer 
 named Frederic Chopin. If you know your music history then you know he was a Polish composer who 
 excelled in piano composition. The game starts with poor Chopin laying in his deathbed succumbing 
 to tuberculosis. The game puts you in control of Chopin, yes you'll be playing as a dying man, 
 but it's not how you'd think. Eternal Sonata has you playing out what's happening in Chopin's head, 
 taking control of him and a few other characters Chopin meets along the way in his dream fantasy 
 adventure. As all the characters come together you'll be faced with trying to take down the Count 
 of Forte, as he tries to turn everyone into mindless slaves with his devious mineral powder plot. 
 
  
  It's not the best story you'll be playing through, but it has its moments and certainly contains 
 a few giggles here and there. There are lots of personal details about Chopin that are given to 
 the player, mainly displayed through still real life screenshots of monuments as text is laid out 
 underneath. It's nice to get to know a lot about the main character of the game, especially one 
 that's taken from real life, but these scenes seem to appear in a few random spots where you wouldn't 
 expect, which can sometimes kill the mood after an action packed scene. At least it's an informative 
 history lesson at the same time for anyone who just happens to be studying that topic.
  
  On Chopin's adventure you'll be running into a lot of enemies, which translates into battles. Like 
 you'd expect from an RPG, there's lots of battles to be fought in Eternal Sonata. There's no random 
 battles featured in this game though. All the opponents are visible on the playing field. There's 
 no attack featured to stun enemies neither, something that Grandia III and Persona 3 had to help 
 you get a surprise attack on the enemy. Instead you can just casually walk into them, or in some 
 cases if they notice you, they'll start chasing you. While on the topic of enemies, areas never 
 seem to contain that much variety. Exploring dungeons in the game means coming across probably 
 three different enemies, in some cases it can just be areas filled with multicoloured rats. It 
 can feel a bit of a drag fighting the same enemies over and over again.
  
  Thankfully though, the scrapping is fun because the battle system easily makes fighting fast and 
 frantic. It's a mixture of real time and turn based. There are a few gauges you have to pay attention 
 to in the mist of battle. Early on in the game the Tactical Time (TT) bar is set to infinite. The 
 TT bar is the time you have spare to think about what you are going to do for your turn. As your 
 party level increases the TT bar starts to get time limits, making the safety you had vanish as 
 you have limited time to plan your move. Once you have moved/attacked/ran out of TT time, the Action 
 Gauge bar kicks in. This bar is a time limit that clicks down to the end of your turn. Attacking 
 enemies gives it a tiny increase, but not really enough to make that much of a difference. Special 
 moves take a huge chunk out of the Action Gauge bar. 
  
  The game rotates around the people participating in battle, each getting a chance to attack, which 
 is the turn-based effect. Everything else is real-time, moving is simply a job of pushing the left 
 stick in the direction you want to move. Attacking is done with the A button, giving simple combos 
 if you keep tapping it. Special moves are done with Y; these moves are highly powerful and drain 
 a lot from your Action Gauge. If you've equipped general items to your character then you can use 
 them by pressing the X button. Little mini actions are also featured, just to spice up battles 
 a little. The bow and arrow used, a Viola (yep that bow instrument, get it?) can shoot arrows from 
 far away, only you have to actually aim the shot, hitting weak spots for massive damage, it's a 
 nice little feature and something different than the normal battles in an RPG.
  
  Eternal Sonata's battle system doesn't just stop there. Adding a twist to fights is the dark and 
 light element. Around the battle area are patches of shadows, light that appears from enemies can 
 cast shadows too and light sources add extra shadows to the field. These light and dark patches 
 affect what special move is usable, as characters come with both light and dark specials. Other 
 major thing are the enemies. Some enemies in the game can walk into shadows and transform into 
 much harder opponents, for example the onion baddies that you meet right at the start of the game 
 transform into giant coconut monsters and are much tougher to take down than their eye-watering 
 pre-transformed light form. It adds that little bit of strategy to the battles, making it not always 
 about just hitting that button.
  
  As you progress throughout the game your party's level increases. Every time this happens it affects 
 certain aspects of the battle meters. Also you usually earn a new ability. Some of these abilities 
 are incredibly helpful; stuff like being able to counter by pressing B at the right time can really 
 help minimize the damage. Others include the Echo meter. Building this meter up is simple, make 
 a string of combos and it builds up, increasing the power of your special moves. Don't worry if 
 all this seems a lot, it's not and it all fits together nicely and makes a great battle system, 
 which is what's needed in an RPG.
  
  The game's presentation is magnificent, everything about it screams out "adore me!" The game isn't 
 going for a realistic approach, but damn it's attractive. The world is bright and rich in colours. 
 Eternal Sonata's crisp visuals help this game become one of the best looking games on the 360 regardless 
 of it not looking real. It's not like you aren't visiting areas that you've never been before, 
 hell Eternal Sonata is full of RPG clichd places, but because of the presentation, you just don't 
 care, be it cliffs, forests, towns, whatever the venue, you'll play and welcome the world with 
 warm open arms.
  
  Character models are just mouth watering. It's easily shown through cut-scenes that Eternal Sonata 
 is the best cel-shaded game ever released, there's no contest about that. The models on display 
 are very close to becoming interactive anim characters. There are little graphical niggles that 
 rear up every so often, usually pixilation problems, but to be fair, marking it down for that would 
 be like having Jessica Alba for a wife and saying she isn't that lovely because she has a hairy 
 mole on her bottom, not that I actually know if she does or not! One thing that is a bit of a shame 
 though is that the characters will always look the same. It would have been amazing getting to 
 see all the weapons, armour and accessories appear on the models, but disappointingly it doesn't 
 happen. No matter how awesome your weapon is, it will just look like the first weapon you acquired 
 in the game, which sucks really!
  
  Since the game is heavily focused on music, there shouldn't be any problem with the soundtrack, 
 and there isn't. The music is delicate and of a high standard. The game features some music composed 
 by Chopin, but it's not jam-packed full of it, most of the soundtrack is original. The voice acting 
 isn't as great as the music, but it's certainly not bad. Some of the characters are done great, 
 while others are kind of average, it's a mixed bag between them. One thing that is great is the 
 ability to switch over to the Japanese language soundtrack, something games need to do more often 
 nowadays. 
  
  So while Eternal Sonata has most parts right to make a great RPG, it fails to deliver in some areas. 
 The game is extremely linear. You can't stray off paths and there's no world map. Also the game 
 doesn't really feature side quests. There are score pieces and EZI items to find, but that's about 
 all you're going to get really. It seems the game was really more focused on telling a story, rather 
 than letting you go around exploring. You can expect to get around 25-30 hours of game time on 
 your first play through, not exactly the longest RPG out there on the market either.
  
  Achievement-wise there are 1000 points to earn from this game; spread over 22 achievements. There's 
 simple ones for getting past parts of the game and then harder ones that require a second play 
 through of the new game+ mode that allows new areas to open, giving the player the ability to collect 
 the missing pieces.
  
  It's great that Namco-Bandai decided to bring Eternal Sonata to Europe. If it was a few years earlier 
 it probably wouldn't have made it over, but it seems those times are slowly vanishing and thank 
 goodness because Eternal Sonata is an RPG that should certainly be played by fans of the genre. 
 It's a good, entertaining RPG that just doesn't quite make it because of its short comings and 
 repetitive problems. It's an experience though that will be remembered for its warm, delicate presentation, 
 kind of like sitting in front of the fire in winter with a nice cup of hot chocolate. It's that 
 kind of feeling you get while playing Eternal Sonata. So just sit down, relax and take in the beauty 
 it oozes out to you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: llSapphyrell
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 21, 2008 3:19 pm PT
Review:  The party system of this game is the best. The party composed of 3 characters and the others are 
 reserves. One character could be assigned for direct assault, the other as long range and your 
 3rd member to be the healer. This probably is the best tactic but my party was made of 2 directly 
 assault characters and 1 healer.
  
  That strategic battle played a big role in making this games party system rock-solid. You have 
 to place your characters carfully in strategic places. You also have to time your strongest skill 
 attack carefully because doing special attacks at the wrong time would not be effective.
  
  You are also given the choice whether to have your heal character heal or attack instead because 
 there are items which can revive a fallen party member. There are times which using your heal chartacter 
 to attack and sacrifice a death of a member is much more effective in finishing the enemy.
  
  The characters were even more deadly with the accessories which increase the usefulness of 
 the skills. My favorite was the accessory which gives you light. I used that for my healer. The 
 power of light given to you character that heals was unstoppable by arenas which was darkened. 
 That gave an advantage because I could heal even in dark arenas. There were plenty accessories 
 which gave increased power to your characters, giving them increased attack points.
  
  The characters were dangerous with these accessories when I played, almost all my battles my characters' 
 Health Points never reached below 3/4.
  
  The game had many weapons available, too many too choose from: swords, Longswords, hammers, spiked-gloves, 
 and giants bracelet of gods for your direct assault characters. For long range characters are: 
 bows and guns, and the healer of your party's weapon is an umbrella or a bow. The weapons were 
 cheap when available on stores and easy to find as loots on chests scattered in the world.
  
  Overall, along side with the rock-solid party system, and teamwork strategy, and level up system, 
 the romance of the game will give players the enchantment for many years to come...
  
  This was the most romantic game that I had ever played. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mario-Luige
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 21, 2008 7:54 am PT
Review:  A great game with a big heart and a good moral. Though the design might seem to be an appeal for 
 children such themes as death, disease, reality, and life are meant for a more mature audience 
 to understand.
  
  GAMEPLAY: When not in a battle the game plays pretty much like any other rpg... characters that 
 get one line dialogue boxes, opening chests for items, shops, and cut-scenes. However sidequests 
 such as collecting score peices (musical peices you play with civilians to earn items) give you 
 something to do. Enemies are visible on the map so you don't have to worry about random encounters. 
 However you don't want to skip too many fights because most bosses later in the game get agitatingly 
 tough if you don't level up. The battle system is a mixture of free-roam and rpg. When it is your 
 turn an action gauge (kind of like a time limit) goes down depending on your party level (6 level-ups 
 that effect your gameplay for the battles) . In the fights you get Attack, Special Attack, Item, 
 and Guard leaving you with a simple battle system, but don't think for a second that'll make fights 
 any easier. Another good thing is unlike most rpg's you have no limits except the timer and health 
 so no magic points or special points that hold back any attacks. Though you will eventually learn 
 of echoes, a system that powers up special attacks. Another neat and unique feature is the light 
 and shade affecting which attacks you can use. I'd have to give gameplay a solid 9 out of 10.
 
  
  STORY: Frederic Francois Chopin is lying on his deathbed and wakes up in the fantasy world of his 
 dream. However as he meets the musically named characters Polka, Allegretto, Beat, Viola, and so 
 on and get to know them Chopin begins deeply thinking of the meaning of dream and reality. The 
 story in his dream is based off events of the real Chopins life and you'll understand this more 
 with long slideshows in between chapters that tell you off Chopins life. However of course in a 
 more fantasy like way. Polka is supposed to represent Chopin's sister, but instead of Tuberculosis 
 she is ill of magic. There was rebellion in Chopin's homeland of Poland and in the dream the rebel 
 Forte and so on and so forth. Eventually towards the very end of the game the story becomes deep 
 and harder to understand and when you do beat the game and if you watch the whole ending you can't 
 help but wonder why Polka jumped in the opening and ending. So while the story is amazing the ending 
 can leave you confused without really really thinking deeply, but of course some people can probably 
 understand and others don't care. I give the story and 8 out of 10.
  
  GRAPHICS: The graphics are a beautiful cell-shaded creation. All the characters have an anime style 
 look to them. The environments are colorful and lively with flowing water, rolling plains, snowy 
 forests, and deadly sands, but unless you take forever to level up you won't be in any one place 
 long enough to really enjoy the areas to their fullest. The creatures are uniqie and the boss characters 
 can vary from other people to huge atrociou monsters. Every design for the larger creatures and 
 humans are very carefully detailed. Shading is and lighting is almost the center of design. While 
 the game is gorgeous there is one flaw. That is characters and contact. In many cutscenes you will 
 see items floating mystically in air a centimeter above the hand supposed to be holding it or a 
 braided hair the is floating stiffly above a shoulder, but then again this is one thing many games 
 have not mastered. I'll give graphics another 8 out of 10.
  
  OVERALL: Eternal Sonata is an amazing rpg and a must have for any rpg fan. The design is gorgeous 
 and the moral is one we can all understand... or can we? But all in all I give Eternal Sonata an 
 8.5 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PAJ89
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 20, 2008 8:13 am PT
Review:  When you walk upon this world, its beauty will leave you lost for words. The dazzling ambience 
 of rich colour, every shade of the rainbow, is quite a sight to behold. It's almost as if Eternal 
 Sonata is a vibrant dream, and that isn't far from the truth. This obscure tale unfolds within 
 the confines of a dream; that of the famed composer, Frederic Chopin, who lies on his deathbed. 
 And despite the unorthodox setting and cutesy characters, there are a lot of deep issues embedded 
 in Chopin's dream. Social exclusion, governmental corruption, and other dark themes bleed onto 
 the colourful pallet that typifies its soul.
  
  Seeing as this is a musician's dream, it would be rather anti-climatic if Eternal Sonata didn't 
 have high-quality sound design. Luckily, this isn't a problem because the music almost always fits 
 the situation. There are even some compositions by Chopin himself, accompanied by some information 
 about the man during chapter intermissions. It's not all about Chopin, though, as there are plenty 
 of characters who play their part.
  
  The dynamic duo of Allegretto and Beat are the first you'll meet; the pair live life rough on the 
 streets of the port town Ritardondo, stealing bread for themselves and their fellow street urchins. 
 Extortionate taxes force the pair into this unsavoury lifestyle, so they head out on a quest to 
 get them lowered. Meanwhile, in the secluded village of Tenuto, a lonely girl named Polka is reflecting 
 on her life. Cursed with a terminal disease and blessed by its side-effect  the ability to cast 
 magic - she leads a melancholic existence. Fear of contagion repels all but her mother away. Determined 
 to make the most of her short life, she wants to make a mark on this dream world. And then we have 
 the star of the show, Mr Chopin himself. Frederic walks this world of his own creation trying to 
 make sense of what's happening and pondering the point at which a dream becomes reality.
  
  Unfortunately, most of the characters don't live up to their lofty billings. Their colourful and 
 exuberant appearances are contrasted by disappointing one-dimensional personalities. Each slots 
 into a tried-and-true clich (Allegretto and Beat the "Robin Hoods" and Polka the damsel in distress) 
 for the most part, and the voice acting certainly does Eternal Sonata no favours in this respect. 
 Polka's voice is whiny and grating while Frederic speaks with an overzealous, melodramatic tone 
 that suggests the voice actor was trying a little too hard. Outside of the main party, there aren't 
 any villains that you'll remember in ten years time.
  
  The overarching plot can be difficult to follow due to questionable story progression. It's a real 
 shame because the plot is interesting; the disjointed nature in that it unfolds is what lets it 
 down, and you can't help but feel Eternal Sonata is extremely structured. You play out a section 
 that gives you a lot of the plot to digest, and then you're thrust into a dungeon that holds little 
 context to the overall goal. You don't feel as though there is any purpose of trawling through 
 these dungeons. They're filled with enemies, the odd puzzle, and a boss battle at the end  extremely 
 monotonous and, at times, frustrating. If it weren't for the marvellous art style (I doubt you'll 
 find a more beautiful looking sewer than Ritardondo's) , these sections would be without any merit. 
 Some careful planning could have given them a sense of purpose which would hold the player's interest 
 rather than have them pointlessly run around a cave.
  
  An engaging combat system ensures that you won't be totally bored by the lacklustre dungeon segments. 
 The action takes place in real-time within the confines of a 3D arena, taking turns with the AI 
 to attack. You've got five seconds to unleash as much pain as you can, but the best thing about 
 combat is how rewarding and challenging it becomes. As you reach certain points in the game, you'll 
 gain a new party level. As you level up, your time meter gets smaller but you gain useful benefits 
 such as the ability to equip more than one special skill. Cutting your time may seem like a cheap 
 way to create challenge, but using your newfound skills to dispatch enemies with smaller time constraints 
 is very rewarding.
  
  What really makes combat interesting is the light/dark dynamic. Each character can use special 
 attacks, but the ones you can use depend on where you're standing on the battlefield. It's an odd 
 concept that works surprisingly well, especially since your enemies are affected by it too. Some 
 of your foes might become extremely powerful in the shade, so you have to think up ways to get 
 them into the light before you take them down. Luring them out, unleashing a special attack with 
 knock-back, or using an item that causes the target to radiate light are all examples of how the 
 game demands you think before you act.
  
  In terms of creativity and artistry, you can't deny that Eternal Sonata is a success. The solid 
 story is painted with beautiful visuals unlike anything before it, and the creativity expands into 
 the fairly odd, yet rather enjoyable, combat system. After considering all this, it's a shame that 
 the general progression lets it down. The blatant story-dungeon-story-dungeon structure would have 
 been far more bearable if the dungeons were planned better. It feels like a dungeon-crawler at 
 times, and although the puzzles aren't particularly tough, their sometimes-confusing nature causes 
 a lot of artificial challenge. Ultimately, Eternal Sonata is something different. In a genre saturated 
 with teens wielding huge swords, five-form final bosses, and the active time battle system, it's 
 undeniably a breath of fresh air if only on the basis of its story and art style. The fact that 
 it's different doesn't save it from the downfalls, but if you can put up with it, you'll find plenty 
 to enjoy in this twenty-to-thirty hour adventure. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Killiasxxx
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 17, 2008 5:05 pm PT
Review:  This on the outside looks like it wouldn't be fun and its for small kids but its not. But its very 
 fun.
  
  The graphics are very good it might be a cartoon looking game but its very detailed. The enviroments 
 look amazing the characters has a lot of detail. 
  
  The gameplay is very fun and addictive its hack and slash but it is turned based like. You get 
 to hack your enemy up. Then he has a chance to but press the B button and you can block the attacks. 
 But it still does damage but not a lot. 
  
  The music is very good it fits the places in the game. And the combat to it has that blend of very 
 good fantasy music. The sound effects sound like they should to.
  
  The story is very well thought of, it not like you have heard of. Just the plot of it all and its 
 not stupid or has stupid parts in it. The cutscenes are somewhat long but not boring long, like 
 you want to skip it. You will want to see the scenes. 
  
  And the game has a good length. 
  
  Over all if you've been waiting for a good RPG to hold 
 you off till Lost Odyessey, here it is. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kiramita
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 15, 2008 11:31 pm PT
Review:  This game was amazing. I loved it! Graphics the best and the colors! Wow the colors were magificent. 
 I give it a 10 but there is one flaw with this game, the ending I was not to happy with the way 
 it ended, but I find it wonderful that the game prompts you to play it again to get the resk of 
 the achievments and you get to keep your highest level. I finished the game in 26 hours and I can't 
 wait until I start my second round. I have a few helpful hints for everyone. Make sure you take 
 your time. Do not rush yourself, but always remember that you have the chance to do it again with 
 more of a advantage. At the end when you collect the soul shards for Cloves, do it during your 
 first time around because I was told it is alot harder the second time around. Oh and take many 
 pictures of battles with Beat. The more money you have the more you can stock up on healing potions 
 and weapon upgrades. Oh and good luck with score pieces! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FlashCharge
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 10, 2008 6:59 am PT
Review:  Eternal Sonata is one excellent game with hours of satisfying game play. The story is well composed 
 and reflects many issues in the real world that often cause you to think and reflect. The characters 
 make this game. You can not but fall in love with them. Beat, Viola, Polka, Frederic and Salsa 
 are wonderful. Each with their own personalities weave a web within the story. The graphics are 
 excellent which adds to the game visual senses. The music score is outstanding and never gets boring. 
 Historically it is a master piece on Chopin. Although the cutscenes on his life are long they are 
 very well done and educational. The game play is smooth and the combat system adds to the game's 
 enjoyment. This is one excellent game and highly recommended. It is hard to put this game down 
 and the thoughts of playing it still linger in my mind. It is a far cry from the blood and guts 
 games out there, but a breath of fresh air. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HatakeKakashi08
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 17, 2008 5:58 pm PT
Review:  Eternal Sonata has an absolutely infectious charm about it that many RPG games lack. At first, 
 it seems extremely cute with an annoyingly sappy opening dialogue, but once you get into the game 
 and the actual story, it becomes a slightly darker, deeper fantasy tale full of interesting facts 
 on real history. The gameplay is pretty straight forward and is a little Final Fantasy X like. 
 The only real complaint I have so far is the lack of new moves, causing the characters to repeat 
 the same phrase over and over again. The same is said for enemy diversity. The cut scenes are LONG 
 and may actually take up quite some time before the next game-play can begin, but there is a skip 
 option which people can choose. Personally, I sat through all of the cut-scenes which I thought 
 were entertaining (mind you if I go through this game again I can't see sitting through them a 
 second time) . The ending without going into deep spoilers is disappointing at best. The story becomes 
 very convoluted and pretentious without any real depth or meaning. The cut-scene at the end is 
 45-minutes long and is exceptionally preachy and repetitive, full of quasi-coherent psychobabble 
 and horrible metaphors. Too bad vecause the core concept is actually very beautiful. All in all, 
 the game was fun to play but the ending was a sour note to what should have been a beautiful symphony. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: robdpremier
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 7, 2008 4:01 pm PT
Review:  If you are an RPG fan like me you will find Eternal Sonata is a Very well made game that will NOT 
 let you down!!! The visuals are Incredible with vibrant colors, beautifully rendered and the gameplay 
 is Solid as can be but IS pretty much by the numbers RPG standard! I was, however, very pleasantly 
 suprised that it was even Better than the demo lead me to expect!! I was hesitant to pick this 
 game up at first from some mixed reviews, but am VERY glad that I did!! Eternal Sonata is a rare 
 gem that should NOT be missed by ANY RPG Fan!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Meteor7
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 2, 2008 8:46 pm PT
Review:  I tried the game as a demo on Live one day and at first I couldn't connect with the game, but the 
 reason why was because they didnt add story to the game and so I got the game and it was good I 
 thought some of the characters were weird, but it didnt knock points off. The game truely shines 
 in the combat mode where it's a turn based yes but you dont just make one move and your turn is 
 over you can attack and use special attacks until your action time runs out and you dont have to 
 attack right away you have something called Tactic time where you can see what you will do for 
 your turn, but later on when you increase your party level your tactic time will lower, but you 
 will gain better benefits for the party, but the game has tons of cutscenes which if you are the 
 impatient type for the game you will have problems with the game. You have to listen to the dialog 
 when on the quest because there is no quest log/maps. The game scenes can be skipped if there is 
 a cut scene that doesnt matter at all, but it is unwise. The graphics are not bad at all they are 
 actually good and the music is good too! The special attacks are all unique and cool. The story 
 is enjoyable one as well you get character such as Allegretto, Polka, March, Viola, Jazz, Beat, 
 Salsa, March, Fallsetto, and Fredric. The voices of the characters can get annoying during the 
 battles, but the game is worth the money 8.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SOULCALIBUR33
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 2, 2008 10:31 am PT
Review:  I never play a game like Eternal Sonata. Not only because is different as graphics... ubt also 
 because the story is everything .
  Is very emotional, magical, and is for everyone who really likes fantasy worlds and stories.... 
 is not a game for everybody... there's need to 'feel' the game, not only play for a battle... 
 
  
  
  The ambient of the game is always beautiful, beautiful scenaries, beautiful dialoge... 
  
  
 The fact that you can't move the camera, could seem not a good thing, but in this way, who create 
 the game can decide what you need really to look instead of disperd your watch in all areas (even 
 if are so beautiful) I think that this choice was because the creator of the game wants take your 
 eyes in what he wants you really notice... 
  
  The battles are not boring, but are always funny... even if sometimes you need to level up so you 
 need to do always the same battle... 
  the system control for battle is nice and innovative!
  
  And the fact that there's Chopen in 
 this story, give more 'magical' atmosphere in the complete story...
  
  But there's really need to open your heart for really appreciate Japanese's game....
  
  I really 
 loves this game... and I would like to play it again to re-watch the story.... so, if you like 
 magical stories and likes RPG's games, I can tell you to buy it!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: StuBHoney
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 31, 2007 10:33 am PT
Review:  This is a hard game for me to review. It has several fun parts, but man can it be annoying. So 
 what is the fun. The cast of characters all have their own feel, hidden paths (ala old school RPG) , 
 a decent fun story, and a colorful world. 
  
  Still the hidden paths are hard because of the fixed camera. I know it is a little thing, but I 
 hate fighting with a camera mechanic. Even in battle you have to move to the unseen enemy which 
 would be a problem if they weren't exactly in the same place everytime. Really same enemies same 
 place. 
  
  The story is marred by the need to preach to me the whole game. Don't tell how I should feel about 
 social issues. Seriously if you want to be mature don't please, and the history of Chopin was intresting 
 I gusse even if it did break the flow of the game.
  
  Would I recommend it. No. Unless you need a RPG fix. It was fun in parts if you don't get annoyed 
 at the samethings I do it might be above average for you. For me it was below average. 
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: topgamerireland
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 29, 2007 7:47 am PT
Review:  When I first played this game I was not too keen on it at all. But after you get to understand 
 the game, it starts to grow on you, the truly great battle system is my favourite thing about the 
 game. Once you get used to this battle system, it can be very fun.
  The only major fault is the photography element making it very easy to gain money and maybe the 
 slightly bad storyline. But which would you rather 
  crappy game play and a slightly better storyline.
  Also may I say, Chopin, s music and the overall 
 music is a relaxing 
  addition to this game.
  Sometimes voice acting can destroy games for example, the bloody annoying English version shu in 
 blue dragon, but in all fairness the voice 
  acting is well done in eternal sonata overall.
  This game is a modern work of art and will hopefully 
 be appreciated to far
  higher rate as time goes by, this is a fun and great game to play through.
  If you have not played 
 this at least rent it and try it out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MuscleCarMan
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 26, 2007 1:25 am PT
Review:  It is a shame that a game this thought provoking and beautiful can be swept under the rug as if 
 it never came out. With games like COD4 and Gears its easy to forget about games like this.
  Now this game is by no means perfect, but it does have some of the most amazing graphical and musical 
 style ive seen in video games as of late and i normally am not a fan of cell shading or classical 
 music. The art direction itself reminds me of Spirited Away and for those of you that have seen 
 that know its no easy feat to pull off. Characters and environments are vibrant and detailed with 
 nice little touches and the lighting with those touches help create a truly beautiful world. The 
 music pieces of Chopin's theyve taken are all well selected and the in game music itself is very 
 inspiring and can fill you with emotion.
  Surprisingly the games weakest point is its characters and story. I'm not saying both are terrible, 
 I'm just saying that theyre not as great as they can be. The party you assemble by the end of the 
 game is 9 strong and there really is no backstory to them besides a few. With other possible side 
 stories they could have explored just being left where they were. I guess to leave it up to your 
 imagination or if they somehow find a way to make a sequel. Same goes for the villains. The main 
 villain Count Waltz is gone before you know it albeit a very epic and cinematic fight, i had just 
 wished they had used him more and maybe had even multiple encounters with him. One villain that 
 actually struck me as odd was Fuegue. He looked and sounded just like Allegretto, but they didnt 
 try to make a connection they were brothers or related somehow. A small gripe i guess.
  I guess if i wanted to nit pick more i could say that the enemies you encounter arent very varied. 
 They tend to be the same model of enemy, with the exception of a different color scheme and increased 
 stats.
  Some people might complain the combat is too simple but as your party level increases the combat 
 becomes much more tactical and innovative, as you unlock different skills that go with party level 
 increases. In case youre wondering, party level is different from character level.
  Anyway im very glad i didnt let this game slip into obscurity, while i could be hard pressed to 
 suggest buying this, because it is short for an RPG and its style could turn people off to it, 
 i would highly recommend playing it. Because this is an experience no one should miss out on. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NeonNinja
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 20, 2007 1:55 pm PT
Review:  Eternal Sonata came out of nowhere. It had nothing going for it aside from some fantastic artwork. 
 That and it had the misfortune of being released a mere eight days before Halo 3. How fitting then, 
 that Eternal Sonata is every bit as good a game as Halo 3 and has become the absolute standard 
 by which all Japanese RPGs will be judged on the Xbox 360. Eternal Sonata is, without doubt, the 
 greatest Japanese RPG to be released on any Xbox console, ever, and I don't mean that statement 
 lightly.
  
  The premise for the game is as stunning and creative as can be, Chopin, the famed "Poet of the 
 Piano" lies on his deathbed in his final hours of life, and in his dream he is taken to a new world, 
 one of fantasy, and the adventure of his death begins. In his dream Chopin will encounter other 
 characters, the first of which is a young girl named Polka, she can use magic, but people who can 
 use magic are near their deaths. They'll also team up with the two street urchins Allegretto and 
 Beat, as well as Viola, a goat herder who is quite skilled with a bow. Two young guardians of the 
 forest will join the crew as well; along with the rebel group Andantino to round out the game's 
 party.
  
  Eternal Sonata charms like no Xbox game ever has, but along with that charm it brings with it one 
 of the greatest battle systems around. A combination of real-time and turn-based battle systems, 
 but calling it just that is far too simple an explanation. The game will let characters as well 
 as enemies take turns attacking. However, when it is your turn to attack you will have the absolute 
 freedom to do as you please within the time given to you. But it doesn't end there, the game also 
 brings light and dark attacks to the forefront. Characters all have special attacks and they come 
 in both light and dark variants. Some attacks will be more effective on certain types of enemies 
 more than others, and your position, either in the light or the shade for instance, will determine 
 just what attack you will use.
  
  The great thing about the battle system is that it evolves with you as you progress through the 
 game. The higher your party level goes up, to a maximum of Level 6, the more intense the battle 
 system will become. Bringing in more and more features to make the game that much more exciting. 
 It is one of the greatest battle systems around, and Tri-Crescendo deserves praise for using it 
 in the game.
  
  There are no random battles in Eternal Sonata either. All enemies are on the screen at all times. 
 If you don't want to fight them, then simply avoid them. Though personally I found the battle system 
 to be so fun that I kept on leveling my characters up. It's great to see that Japanese RPGs are 
 finally ditching the random battles of the past.
  
  Many Role Playing Games live and die by their stories, especially if their gameplay isn't as amazing 
 as it can be. Eternal Sonata tells the story of Chopin's final journey to put his soul to rest, 
 but that isn't all. Each of the characters have their own story to tell, and they'll all eventually 
 converge together as it becomes apparent that the final goal for everyone, aside from Chopin, is 
 to stop the evil Count Waltz. The story isn't the most epic tale, but all of them are highly personal 
 and will make you feel for each of the characters. It tells a beautiful tale full of bravado, old-fashioned 
 romance (not just the kissy-kissy kind that many think of when they see that word) and one the 
 kind of charm that will make you smile throughout the course of the adventure.
  
  The story itself tries to relate to the events that occurred during Chopin's own life and even 
 try to relate to modern themes. It pulls this off admirably and for those interested in learning 
 about Chopin himself, in each chapter the game will enter a cutscene where it teaches the player 
 about Chopin. I personally enjoyed these, being a fan of classical music, but for those gamers 
 who don't want to sit through these, they do have one blessing: skippable cutscenes.
  
  One of the first things that gamers will notice about Eternal Sonata is the graphics. They are 
 gorgeous. While on a technical level Eternal Sonata cannot hope to compete with the likes of BioShock, 
 it obliterates all other games, regardless of platform or genre, with it's lush artistry. Every 
 single area feels unique and different. Each one feels as if it belongs in a dream. These are the 
 most beautiful graphics, from an artistic point of view, to ever be released on any console. No 
 game has ever made an impact like this on me from its visuals. They defy words, and only with the 
 imagination can such places even be seen.
  
  The characters themselves, while cel-shaded, are extremely detailed, they look like they've come 
 out of some of the best anime released. With intricate details on their clothing, beautiful facial 
 expressions, lovely hair (even if it still looks like anime hair) , and fluid movement, Eternal 
 Sonata is amazing in the aesthetics department.
  
  One thing to note about Eternal Sonata is that all of the characters, towns, dungeons and areas 
 are all named after music. It works wonders to the charm found within the game. Even the weapons 
 used by many of the characters will have musical parts to them. For instance, Beat's gun is actually 
 a Clarinet.
  
  The music in Eternal Sonata is aces. Of course, the music found within a game about Chopin had 
 better be amazing. Whether it is the original pieces by Chopin being played, or the original score 
 for the game, Eternal Sonata's music is up there. It even gives Halo 3's epic score a run for its 
 money.
  
  The sound effects for the game are par for an RPG. There aren't earth-shattering explosions and 
 religious battle cries, Eternal Sonata doesn't try to be that game. Everything sounds just right 
 for such a fantastical game. The voice acting on the other hand all depends on every individual's 
 preference. For instance, those gamers who love watching anime on television in English dubs will 
 find Eternal Sonata has some great voice acting. They may even recognize some familiar voices from 
 their favorite anime. Those who prefer their anime in Japanese with subtitles can switch the game's 
 audio track to Japanese right from the outset. And they may even hear some recognize some familiar 
 voices from their favorite anime. Those who have no preference for anime can pick and choose; it's 
 really up to each person. If you can't bear the English voices than Japanese is the way to go. 
 But I personally found them to fine.
  
  Eternal Sonata clocks in at around thirty hours of playtime. That may feel short for many RPG fans, 
 but there is no filler in Eternal Sonata, it's thirty hours of the main quest, and they are an 
 amazing thirty hours. It ultimately boils down to how you'll feel about the length, but I found 
 Eternal Sonata to be just right in its length, no more and no less.
  
  Eternal Sonata is one of the greatest Xbox 360 games released yet, it's full of old-school charm, 
 old-fashioned romance, derring-do, bravado, charming characters, a dreamy setting with as dreamy 
 a story and one of the greatest battle systems in a Japanese RPG. Eternal Sonata will charm you 
 until its heart-wrenching finale. It is one of the few games that, while seemingly cute, is far 
 more mature then it seems, ending both happily and sorrowfully. Eternal Sonata just feels like 
 it was made for me, the kind of game I've been waiting for, for a long time. As a whole, Eternal 
 Sonata is simply beautiful. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: potterpipi
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 12, 2007 7:27 pm PT
Review:  Eternal Sonata is definitely one of those few Teen RPGs that is great. The game goes around Chopin, 
 a musician, who is deathly ill and is having a dream, inside his dream is where the story develops, 
 opening a door to a beautiful world.
  
  Gameplay: It's good. The storyline isn't as action packed as you would think; Instead of having 
 a ground breaking story, it features moral problems, and the difference of reality and imagination. 
 The battle system is a free roam turn-based battle system, giving you ordered action; You can select 
 Attack, Item (which you can customize depending on your Party Level) , and Special Attack. The leveling 
 on the game moves along well, it's pretty easy to dodge enemies, but you might to fight them to 
 level up and get money. An easy way to get money in this game is to take photographs, which is 
 a selectable special attack that a character called Beat has. You will be also collecting various 
 items, such as Score Pieces, and EZI Items. Both of these groups of items cant be fully found on 
 the First Playthrough, after clearing the game once, you can play a Cleared file and get access 
 to more content, such as teleportation on certain areas. Score Pieces are an interesting bonus 
 to collect, since you'll be collecting music, which during the game you will mix with the other 
 part of the Score Piece with NPCs and will let you listen to the pretty tunes.
  
  Visuals: The visuals are pretty good. The facials and body graphics are pretty, think of Dark Cloud 
 style. While walking normally you'll get Eagle Eye View most of the time, which lets you appreciate 
 the pretty backgrounds and details. In battle you'll get a view similar like this most of the time, 
 unless you make a long special attack, which lets you appreciate the attack cut-scene more.
  
  Sound: Great quality sound. The music it's marvelous. The piano score is played, by of course, 
 Chopin, so you know it's decent. Every sound fits the game's moments. The voice acting is pretty 
 good too, though you may notice that some of the older Male characters have a very similar tone 
 (same person most probably)
  
  Controls: Since it's a free roam turn-based game, it's definitely easy. No problem here. Just select 
 the option you want and presto.
  
  Overral: Eternal Sonata is a great pretty looking game. Not all RPG gamers will like it, since 
 it's a tribute to Chopin, it can't be so evil. It presents moral problems, reality and imagination 
 differences, and a great soundtrack. Any RPG gamer out there that wants a pretty looking game that 
 isn't as violent as others, here you go, Eternal Sonata is calling for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bdy107
Rating: 5
Date: Dec 12, 2007 12:21 pm PT
Review:  I was among many people awaiting the next great turn based RPG for the next generation consoles. 
 This game is not it. The story is interesting enough, but very straight forward, and gives you 
 absolutely no control of the outcome. You have no decisions to make, and you just watch it. I will 
 agree with most experts that this game is well drawn. The colors are very bright, and all the characters 
 are well animated. I do not understand why there are not more complaints about the repetition of 
 enemies. After over 15 hours in the game, I'm tired of fighting the same bats that I faced when 
 the game started. The innovation of enemies changing from light to dark is mildly interesting, 
 but the gameplay is so easy. In the hundreds of battles with enemies, they have never challenged 
 any configuration of the party. After the action starts, you just run up and mash away at the enemy, 
 heal if you want to, and the enemy puts up a feeble attempt at damaging you. The boss battles are 
 even more disappointing, in which you just mash away again to build up your extra hit meter, do 
 lots of damage and repeat. The bosses haven't even killed a member of my party yet. This game is 
 severely overrated. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shadow_Fire41
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 11, 2007 11:13 am PT
Review:  ya, its pretty good. anime style characters, plus. battle system that gets harder every once in 
 a while, minus. photography that gets you cash quick, plus. a character with a sword bigger than 
 Cloud's, plus. ok, ok ill quit with the plus and minus thing. the graphics are beautiful, this 
 game COULD be better, but it definitely isn't bad, its a decent game for sure.
  there are some challenges to this game that may drive you mad though.
  the weird part of the 
 story is only people with a terminal illness or thats dying can use magic.
  i really can't say anything else but, bravo Eternal Sonata, Bravo! (said that cause i didn't have 
 100 words.  _ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sampateman
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 9, 2007 12:25 pm PT
Review:  Eternal Sonata can is viewed upon by many people like marmite; you either love it, or you hate 
 it. Well personally I hate marmite, (nasty stuff) but I do, however, love this game.
  
  Graphically, this is one of the finest on the Xbox 360 as of yet, and it is the only game in my 
 opinion ever to achieve such a unique quality, and manages to sustain this throughout the whole 
 of the game. It looks just like a Japenese anime, plays like a Japanese anime, but it is much, 
 much more, as rather than letting itself being seduced by the RPG stereotypes that are all too 
 frequent, this game takes the best aspects from these, but rather than just being lazy and using 
 it throughout, it expands upon this so the characters are believable, and develop throughout, and 
 you do genuinely find yourself caring for them, meaning that it works in this aspect as it keeps 
 you playing.
  
  The battle system, though not terribly deep, is enough to keep you playing and it does develop 
 as you continue through the game, adding new aspects to prevent you from getting bored. There is 
 a decent light vs dark system that makes you think on your feet, and the time limit forces you 
 to act quickly, therefore adding a tactical element to the game and making it all the more fun 
 to play. One criticism, however, is that after you've encountered the same specific combination 
 of enemies time after time it does become rather weak, as you can use the same combination of attacks 
 again and again battle after battle therefore making it slightly tedious, spoiling the magic.
 
  
  There is a nice balance in how one section of the game can be entirely action-based, forcing you 
 to fight battle after battle so you can proceed, until switching suddenly and becoming a more puzzle-based 
 theme instead, or a mixture of the two. The puzzles, however, can vary in difficulty, as occasionally 
 they can be painfully obvious, while other times it can be so infuriating you will actually begin 
 to wonder why you bought this game, and can end up putting you off of it entirely. However, these 
 are by far the worst aspect of the game, meaning that once they are done and dusted it will feel 
 like a real accomplishment, and therefore reastablish that massive level of respect you had for 
 the game immediately.
  
  The voice acting by a few of the cast is excellent, while a lot of the other characters you meet 
 will seem distinctly average. However, a certain few characters (as Japanese RPG's always do) have 
 annoying, squeaky voices that almost force you to dislike them, meaning that the game fails in 
 this aspect. Despite this, these problems are forgivable as the game compensates for this in many 
 ways.
  
  The plot is outstanding, and is very picture-esque in how it is largely symbolic of the real world 
 but it intereprets it in a different way. Not only is is beautiful to look upon from the outside, 
 but if you allow yourself to be enveloped in Eternal Sonata's magic it becomes something much, 
 much more, as you genuinely feel as if you are in another person's world and are viewing it from 
 their perspective. It's also fantastic in how it incorporates Frederic Francois Chopin's live into 
 the game and uses it to reflect his remarkable life, and it even has several moments in which the 
 game pauses and a brief part of his life is explained to show you why the game's plot is symbolic 
 of him.
  
  Eternal Sonata does have a certain 'cheesiness' to it and at times will make you cringe when characters 
 constantly explain, and then repeat the obvious, but I think this is done to subtly immerse you 
 in the game as it reminds you of the plot on numerous occassions meaning that you don't forget 
 where you are or what you are doing, so viewing it from this way it is forgivable.
  
  I think if the game offered a harder difficulty to contend with it could have been an enjoyable 
 challenge, nut nevertheless, this game is fantastic, amd if you're a Japanese RPG lover, or someone 
 who's looking for a unique thrill, Eternal Sonata is definitely for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AzelKosMos
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 2, 2008 1:22 pm PT
Review:  Frederic Franois Chopin was a famous Polish pianist who passed away on October 17, 1849 to to 
 pulmonary tuberculosis. Who would have thought that last piece of rather morbid information would 
 lead to one of the most beautiful and surreal games to grace the gaming world in recent years.
 
  
  On his deathbed, it is said that Chopin had a dream. During this period Chopin appears in another 
 world in which everything is named after a musical term, this includes the other people that Chopin 
 engages with in his fantasy adventure. This includes characters like Waltz, Tuba, Jazz, Falsetto, 
 Viola, Rondo and Polka. The last of which is where his, and your dream to reality adventure starts. 
 Polka is a young girl who was cursed from birth. She is going to die. Everyone dies, but Polka's 
 fate is more known then others as she has the power of magic which will kill her sooner rather 
 then later. Before she dies however, she wishes to acomplish something to help people. Chopin believing 
 this is all a dream and that he too will soon die decides to accompany her on her quest. 
  
  With such an emphasis on a musical theme, where would Eternal Sonata be without good music 
 to actually accompany it? Fortunately the music is fantastic, including in many areas some of chopin's 
 music. However the bulk of the game is made of original scores, and although reminiscent of Chopin's 
 work, they are alot more modern and fit the theme of the game perfectly.
  
  Sound and endearing story aside. Eternal Sonata is a masterpiece visually. By this I do not mean 
 the graphics are good in a technical sense, but rather in an artistic. No detail was spared when 
 creating the world of Chopin's journey, even the smallest path from point A to B is a wonder to 
 look at with a boundless array of colours used to infuse it with life. Flowers of all colours and 
 shapes, waterfalls in ingenius places, leaves and petals in the wind are just some examples. But 
 the medium of text can't describe what your eyes can. You must see it for yourself.
  
  The gameplay is just as clever as the other elements of the game. Eternal Sonata is an action turn 
 based RPG. Now usually as you travel further in an RPG the enemies get stronger to keep the game 
 challenging. While this is true for this one as well, there is an added twist. The battle system 
 itself evolves getting increasingly harder, yet at the same time more open. At the start of the 
 game per each characters turn they have a set amount of time in which to perform actions from attacking, 
 using special attacks or items. However this only moves down when you are moving and stops if you 
 do, enabling you to plan your next move. As you progress other levels in the battle system are 
 unlocked, so the timer doesn't stop once it starts, the time you get decreases. But there are bonus 
 ingriedients as well like being able to link several special attacks in a chain known as harmony 
 attacks, speeding the battle speed up etc. There are 6 levels in all which are all slowly introdusced 
 so at no point do you feel overwhelmed.
  
  The game is fairly short for an RPG at about 30 hours long, but for a game that is still value 
 for money. Not only that but if you are after the achievements you will have to play it twice to 
 get all 1000, as some only unlock on the second play through, which also becomes hard mode from 
 a clear game save making it more challenging for those that found the first ride to easy.
  
  Now for all the praise there is for Eternal Sonata, no masterpiece is ever perfect. Some of 
 the dungeuns your party travel through are quite large towards the end of the game. Yet there is 
 no map, not even in the main menu in which you can get your bearings from. In the one optional 
 dungeun in the game I got so frustrated at how confusing it was, I had to draw my own. Not a good 
 sign. The game as afore mentioned is very linear, with only one additional dungeun to partake in. 
 While nearly all the voice acting in the game is fantastic and a pleasure to listen to, one party 
 member you recieve will make you want to perferate your ear drums with hot knitting needles to 
 avoid hearing it again. And lastly, the ending to the game was not as well thought out as the rest 
 of the title, and makes as much sense as a chocolate castle in the sahara desert.
  
  However despite these few minor niggles, Eternal Sonata is an experience that no RPg fan, artist, 
 or music lover should miss. Even if you don't fit into the above categories I plea for you to give 
 this game a chance. It is an experience no one should miss. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lightfellower
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 6, 2007 12:01 pm PT
Review:  Frederic Franois Chopin's first foray into being popular was said to be a masterpiece known as 
 Grande Valse Brillante. It wasn't easy for the patriotic music composer, who had to made witness 
 the fall of his homeland at the comfort of a foreign country he never cared for. The music piece 
 was believed to be an escapism tool for him to hide his sorrow, a score that was never intended 
 to be danced with, but nonetheless patronised by the indifferent Vienna's dance floor. Little would 
 have Chopin known that there will be another brush with the popular culture some 150 years after 
 his death- a video game that fuses his life story so eloquently into a short adventure, this time 
 his patronisers the millions of fortunate gamers. 
  
  Eternal Sonata possesses a natural contradiction. It is homage to Chopin's works, but as a popular 
 medium, it could have been the one thing that most culturists would have frowned upon. It can never 
 be known if Chopin himself would approve of this venture; but he could as well be proud, as Eternal 
 Sonata's role as a string between our generation and his could not have been executed better. 
 
  
  As a video game that tells the story of the famed composer, it almost seemed vulgar that it had 
 to begin on his deathbed, October 17, 1849. Fantasy kicks in, and the fictional Chopin was made 
 to relive another life; one that he believed was in his dream. It is easy to think likewise, as 
 a world which is made up of places such as Agogo Forest and Forte Castle, and characters' names 
 which never deviate from the line of Jazz to Waltz; it is inconceivable that such would belong 
 to the reality. The excellent artistic and music direction further prove the point, as such beauty 
 and melancholy may as well only exist in the unfathomable realm of dreams.
  
  What is especially impressive is how the story unfolds. Disguised as chapters, progress in Eternal 
 Sonata is marked by the names of Chopin's compositions, each of which relevant to the situational 
 development. The first chapter, Raindrop, sees a scene where the characters meet each other in 
 the rain. Other chapters, which go by the names of his other famed works such as Nocturne and Fantaisie-Impromptu 
 share similar ideas, delving into themes such as betrayal and patriotism. So masterfully crafted 
 and fused, it would soon be difficult to conceive if the world of Eternal Sonata reflects Chopin's; 
 or uncannily, if it's really the other way around. 
  
  The presence of Eternal Sonata proves 2 points. One, that art and games, as incredulous as it may 
 sound, can exist under the same breath with careful directions. And that two, games graphics, as 
 one-dimensional as it has become, is still open to interpretation. In an era where gaming developers 
 better each other to create the most realistic visuals, it ditches the bandwagon altogether and 
 opted for an artistic direction that seems to be the antithesis of realism. When coupled with the 
 exquisite orchestra music that sings heartedly throughout the entire adventure, Eternal Sonata 
 is as good as a manifestation of fantasy, capable of melting even the coldest hearts.
  
  Despite all the artistic merits, Eternal Sonata still manages to create an engaging game play. 
 While most of the gaming mechanics are simple routines found in most JRPGs, battles sing a different 
 tune, employing an active turn-based system quite unlike others. Characters upon their turns would 
 have a limited amount of time in which they can conduct any actions, from basic attacks to techniques 
 to items use. As the game progresses, difficulty piles up as players become increasingly limited 
 with the amount of time, though offset by some better tweaks with the system. Also worth mentioning 
 is the significance of shadows. Characters are given 2 sets of special attacks, light and dark, 
 where the latter can be executed only when they stand in the dark. This introduces a little strategy 
 to the game play that was not quite expected of in a game like this in the first place.
  
  As imperfect as all art pieces are, Eternal Sonata also suffers from some inaptitude. The lack 
 of maps unnecessarily complicates navigation, a problem that would soon snowball itself when the 
 larger dungeons are visited as the game progresses. The large and varied cast was underdeveloped, 
 its main culprit the helplessly short amount of game time. For a game that commits itself in delving 
 into the emotional aspect of Chopin, such disparity easily becomes obvious. Battles, albeit fun, 
 suffer from regurgitation, forming a blemish on this refine art piece which it truly is.
  
  Take nothing away from Eternal Sonata. The challenge in entangling the entirely different realms 
 of games and art deserves applause and the result, while never homogenous, is as good as a Chopin-inspired 
 RPG can get. In an industry where the move is toward anything that is blood and gore, one has got 
 to wonder if there can be more Eternal Sonatas to defy the norms, and to enchant us with the melodic 
 ripples of the uncharted waters. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: theunloved
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 6, 2007 11:18 am PT
Review:  Having played my PS2 to death with the RPG world, and not having really anything for the first 
 Xbox, I was rather pleased to see the 360 getting a very nice dose of the RPG realm. So, when Eternal 
 Sonata was released, I was quick to pop it in my 360. So, the game is a twist on the famous piano 
 player Chopin. But I'll let you figure the story on your own. The voice acting and graphics, along 
 with the music are wonderful. I really did enjoy the music in this game, and for some reason, really 
 liked the voice of the girl Polka... lol. Anyways, *cough* moving on. The battles are fun and as 
 you get higher in rank, your gain abilities to use in battle per say. As you get higher, you have 
 less time to react, forcing you to think quicker. But you do get benefits from it. I'd rather have 
 you stop reading this now and go out and play it for yourselves. This game is a good start for 
 the RPG for the 360, and I truly hope to see more games like this in the future. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: calui
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 3, 2007 11:10 am PT
Review:  Eternal Sonata is a superb RPG and the best RPG in a really long time. The gameplay is a real highlight 
 and one of the best RPG battle systems of all time. The gameplay revolves around your characters 
 taking a turn and then the enemies taking a turn. In your turn you can move freely about the battlefield 
 and use regular attacks, special attacks, or heal party members. You also only have about four 
 or five seconds to do this, and you can vary between close and long range attacks. The light and 
 dark also play an important part in battle, because some abilites can only be used in the light 
 or dark, and some skills are better in the light or dark. Each battle feels dynamic and fresh, 
 because there are so many ways that you can kill the enemy. The story Eternal Sonata is pretty 
 good, but definetly doesn't reach a story calibur of Final Fantasy games or Kingdom Hearts. The 
 characters are interesting, and the ideas are well thought up, but the game really lacks a great 
 bad guy. All you know about Count Waltz is that he wants to make mindless soliders by producing 
 lots of mineral powder. Yet you will still find the game sad and covers topics like social persecution 
 and the story is interesting how it comibnes the characters dream, and the real world the character 
 is in. Overall the story is still really interesting. Graphically Eternal Sonata looks phenomanal. 
 Everything looks so realalistic and beautiful that you might think that you're watching a movie. 
 The sound and voice acting are done really well also. Yet despite all the great things in the game, 
 there are a few minor issues. For one the game is extremly linear which makes it not have much 
 replay value. For another the game is extremlly short for an RPG lasting only about 20-24 hours, 
 and the enemy design throughout areas is extremlly repetative. Some parts of the game feel really 
 easy thanks to the game offering ways to much experience for defeating certain enemies. Overall 
 9/10 In the end Eternal Sonata is still a really great game. So far this is the best RPG of next 
 gen, and comes really close to being as good as some of the Final Fantasies. While the brevity 
 of the game and lack of sidequests does hurt it, this game will surely appeal to anyone who likes 
 JRPGs and even if you don't like JRPGs you should at least try the game, because this game might 
 make you an RPG fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mikalobe
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 30, 2007 11:15 pm PT
Review:  Graphics: 10/10
  Sound: PERFECT 10!
  Controls: 10/10
  Gameplay: So far, another 10!
  
  Overall: 10!!!
  
  The game is a splendid piece of work. I'm not much of a history-liking 
 kind of guy, but this game is immersive! Frederic Francois Chopin, was a famous pianist and composer 
 in Poland around the 1830s. His music is dazzling in game, but I still love all of Eternal Sonata's 
 in-game music more. As far as graphics go, the animations and everything is excellent. Aside from 
 occasional freezes, the game runs just fine. It can get annoying, but I'm sure it's just our 360 
 or something. Otherwise, I haven't beaten it yet, but battling in this game is fun as well. It's 
 similar to Star Ocean's, only your movement is timed and limited... plus it's turn-based, unlike 
 SO's real-time battles. Still, this game rewards us with a compelling storyline unlike like any 
 other that I've played. (Very dream like.) I dislike Chopin being IN the game itself, but I guess 
 it adds to it really. I just don't like the inbetween chapters where you have to listen about Chopin's 
 realistic lifetime and what happened to him. Really? I don't care. I don't even really like his 
 character in game either... Another thing though, the dialogue can sometimes be a bit too long... 
 for instance, "Claves' Death Scene". (Although I'm sure she's not really dead... since I see her 
 in a screenshot with March while in battle and March joins the party a little while AFTER her death.
 
  
  My only con is that it freezes on me every so often, but it's easily remedied, by not caring. If 
 you're slightly confused by my previous rant... let it be known that it was just a personal reference 
 about the game. Otherwise, it's still a 10. I just happen to not like listening about Chopin's 
 life, nor his in-game character's repeated dialogue about life, the past, future and the same crap 
 over and over. Sorry Frederic's afterlife spirit... but hey, at least your music is a flare. ^-^ 
 (I know some other guy composed Chopin's original pieces. No need to tell me.) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nobeaner
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 27, 2007 2:57 pm PT
Review:  I like Eternal Sonata. The graphics are especially clear and vibrant with a wide range of colors 
 used to paint the world you are in. I found myself doing a lot of stopping and appreciating certain 
 areas of the game because of how beautiful the artwork is for the backgrounds. The character animations 
 are pretty good too, but the lack of facial expressions kind of dulled any connection to the characters.
 
  
  The game gives you the option of listening in English or Japanese which is actually kind of neat 
 since it gives the cut scenes a different feel because of the voice acting. The dialogue was actually 
 witty and well written with only a few exceptions throughout the whole story. The music in Eternal 
 Sonata is wonderful to listen to and in some areas it was haunting and projected an image of being 
 alone and/or sad.
  
  I actually kind of liked the back-story the game told about Chopin in between chapters. The pictures 
 that were displayed were as vibrant and colorful as the game itself, which gives me some idea of 
 the inspiration for the background design.
  
  The RPG elements of the game... Well they're in there. Don't get me wrong, the item and score piece 
 collecting was good. If you played the right score pieces to the right NPC you would get a reward. 
 But, the game didn't have a lot of customization for the characters. The weapon and item collection 
 was evenly balanced with the chapter you were in and I don't recall ever finding an Uber weapon 
 early in the game. Most, if not all of the really good weapons are found in the last chapter of 
 the game which kind of fits since the enemies are so powerful and there are a lot of bosses to 
 fight.
  
  While the first play through was fun, it was much more enjoyable the 2nd time through because of 
 the increased difficulty added to the game.
  
  The combat system was very action oriented. you moved your characters around and performed attacks 
 in real time. The game still controlled the sequence that everyone attacked, which was determined 
 by every ones speed that was fighting. It also used an interesting light/dark approach. You or 
 your enemies attacks would change depending on if you were standing in the light or the dark. The 
 combat had some other interesting aspects too, but that's a little more detailed than I wanted 
 to be for this review.
  
  The story arc of the game of course revolved around Chopin on his deathbed and entering a dream 
 world. Thanks to the cut scenes in between chapters about Chopin's life and times you kind of get 
 an impression for the story arc in the game. Add to Chopin's life and times story a splash of "The 
 meaning of everything" and you get a general idea of the games story.
  
  Achievement wise the game is not that hard. You do have to play through twice to achieve everything 
 and there are a few places that if you don't go the right way or perform a certain action you will 
 have to play through a 3rd time to unlock all the achievements. Given the amount of time involved, 
 I would say its about 50 to 70 hours to get all the achievements.
  
  Eternal Sonata was definitely a fun game, but there are some things that I wish they had changed 
 or implemented to make it better. For one, a better selection of monsters would have been nice. 
 A lot of them were just recycled monsters using the same image with a different color and different 
 abilities. Sure, you see this in Final Fantasy and games of similar ilk, but there just seemed 
 like less of a selection in the game. My other issue was that the game didn't have a lot of exploration 
 elements to it. This I felt was a big mistake since so much of the game is beautiful to look at 
 and so well designed. Aside from some side quests you're not really directed to go back to some 
 areas to explore. It also would have been nice to be able to control the camera in some areas simply 
 to get a better look at the beautiful landscape of the game.
  
  In the end though, Eternal Sonata was a game I definitely enjoyed very much.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: FvaFshX
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 26, 2007 11:27 am PT
Review:  When Eternal Sonata first started up in my 360, I was initially blown away by the look of it. As 
 a big JRPG fan, It was wonderful to see close up shots of the detailed anime style characters. 
 Soon afterwards, the basic premise is introduced and I am drawn further into the experience. Chopin 
 is drawn into his dream world, which seems to be gaining a state of independence, on his death 
 bed. Being a musician as well, this story concept should be enough to make this one of my favorite 
 JRPG's of all time. However, later down the line the look of the game begins to suffer and the 
 story seems to be completely pushed to the side in favor of constant social and political commentaries.
 
  Starting off with the positive aspects: Make no mistake. Eternal Sonata is a truly gorgeous game. 
 The close up models of the characters are extremely vibrant and detailed and convey a great deal 
 of emotions through their faces. Each town also shines with the radiant glow of an impressionist 
 painting, quite fitting for a story taking place in the head of a romantic composer. Sadly, as 
 you progress further into the game the novelty wears off and it moreso resembles a shiny looking 
 PS2 game. This is mainly true in the dungeons, where you are restricted to a linear path full of 
 the unimpressive enemy sprites. Despite the beautiful first impression, as you progress it feels 
 more like a next gen version of baten kaitos (both in the graphics and sound since Sakuraba composed 
 for both games)
  Another positive aspect is the battle system, but it too has its share of flaws. The battle system 
 is fun and easy to pick up, as well as quite exciting particularly during boss battles. The downside 
 is the lack of enemy variety and the overall easy difficulty. Many JRG's have repeating groups 
 of enemies (fight 3 bugs, or 2 golems, or 5 goblins etc) but Eternal Sonata didn't care to mix 
 things up at all. This makes certain dungeons quite tedious and repetitive, especially if the experience 
 rewards are rather low, because you're approaching every fight in the exact same way. One perfect 
 example is a pirate ship, where you are always fighting 3 pirates over and over again. The easy 
 difficulty also ties into that since you could fight those 3 pirates over and over and never get 
 hit because of the simple pre-emptive attack system. However, there is some added challenge with 
 the hidden dungeon and New Game+ which increases enemy strength. 
  Finally, theres the story. Some have praised this game's story and other's have panned it. I fall 
 into the latter category but I think it's moreso because this story caters to a certain mindset 
 as well as any group who hasn't been exposed to many stories of this kind. After introducing the 
 fantasy aspect involving Chopin, the game just sort puts the whole element on the backburner and 
 focuses on talking about the state of the world. For a number of hours at the mid way point, you'll 
 barely hear Chopin say a word. Instead, the supporting cast spouts lines like "You shouldn't run 
 away from your problems", "It takes a lifetime to create and a moment to destroy", and of course 
 the all-time favorite "It's important to live every moment to the fullest". I haven't heard that 
 one in a game before. I respect the attempt to be "mature" but the problem is it's nothing we haven't 
 heard before and theres too much of it. I want to hear more about Count Waltz, some more character 
 development perhaps... I don't want a Dr. Phil session. Other RPGs have managed to expertly combine 
 real messages while not sacrificing story, such as Xenogears, so in 2007 having such an uneven 
 script is unacceptable. It reaches a breaking point for the games 45 minute ending which includes 
 the entire cast looking right into the camera and reciting every line straight out of every self 
 help book ever written. I thought I paid for a game, not a suicide intervention. 
  In closing, if you're looking for a JRPG game for your 360 you're pretty much stuck with either 
 this or Blue Dragon for the time being. The best advice would be to skip this altogether and wait 
 for something better, but if you really need a fix rent this game. If the pedantic dialogue is 
 getting through and making you reflect on yourself, then you are problably going to enjoy it. If 
 you're tired of hearing constant idealistic banter in JRPGs (Anyone remember how Lloyd wouldnt 
 stop spouting it towards the end of Tales of Symphonia?) , stay far away.
  
  Vash 
::::::

::::::
UserName: duxup
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 24, 2007 6:43 pm PT
Review:  If you enjoy sweet, even sappy, JRPGs where the world shines like a sort of CG animated Candy Land 
 then Eternal Sonata is likely the game for you. However, if you're somewhat ambivalent toward the 
 more emotion heavy JPRGs, or if you require a stiff challenge from your RPGs then there is a good 
 chance that Eternal Sonata isn't the game for you.
  
  Eternal Sonata tells the story of Frederic Chopin's life and final days on his death bed and a 
 world that he may or may not be imagining in his sleep. The game play takes place entirely in Chopin's 
 sort of dream world where mineral powder has recently become very popular amongst the populous 
 as a cure for just about everything. The central mystery of the game revolves around the motives 
 of those selling the mineral powder that as you probably can guess might not be all it is cracked 
 up to be .
  
  The connections between Chopin's world that you are provided glimpses of from time to time and 
 the world you spend your time playing in are symbolic at best, and even it bit disruptive to the 
 flow of the game as you the player are bounced back and forth. The connection between those worlds 
 is largely irrelevant to how much you'll enjoy the game. Fortunately, the characters in the dream 
 world are a bit more interesting than Chopin's own real life story, at least in terms of how they 
 are presented.
  
  The characters that inhabit the world you play in are as bright and spunky and yet manage to provide 
 enough variety amongst them to keep them each interesting in their own way in terms of both character 
 and combat. Along with Chopin himself there is a warm hearted and mysterious girl named Polka, 
 a pair of street urchins in Allegretto and Beat, a crew of rebels and several other characters 
 you will pickup along the way. Depending on what point in the game you're talking about there are 
 up to nine characters you can choose from during your adventures and you can a total of three at 
 a time into battle.
  
  The characters bright personalities are only outshined by the game's graphics. Eternal Sonata is 
 a gorgeous game. While it is a fairly linear game and is somewhat limited in terms of space to 
 explore this gives Eternal Sonata a maliciously crafted feel. Most scenes and spaces are beautifully 
 animated with bright bold colors as if they were an impressionist painting. 
  
  Provided you're not overwhelmed by the intense characters and graphics it is hard not to smile 
 or at least stop and admire the view now and then. The only downside being that the characters 
 clothing and weapons do not change visually thru the entire game. You do equip a variety of weapons, 
 clothing, accessories, and armor but sadly they have no impact on your characters outward appearance. 
 With such beautifully crafted characters it takes a bit of fun out of buying new items for them 
 if they never actually change their appearance.
  
  The combat in Eternal Sonata uses an interesting light / dark system. When moving thru the world 
 of Eternal Sonata you can (for the most part) pick and choose what enemy encounters you wish to 
 have and what encounters you wish avoid simply by walking into enemies or maneuvering around them. 
 
  
  Upon encountering an enemy the battlefield will either be predominantly light or predominantly 
 dark with opposite patches in various places. What special attacks are available to you are determined 
 by the spaces light or dark characteristics. Stand in a light patch and you have one set of special 
 attacks, stand in dark and you will have another set of attacks. All characters have different 
 light and dark special attacks and will learn new such attacks as they level up. Additionally some 
 items can cast a light or dark aura around you and even the shadows of enemies can provide dark 
 palaces where you can use the associated attacks. 
  
  Each character and enemy takes their turn maneuvering and attacking. Each turn is allotted a set 
 amount of time to attack. During your time you can pull off as many regular and special attacks 
 as you can before time runs out. There is also an "echo system" where by a series regular attacks 
 of all the characters are added up and can be used to unleash particularly powerful special attacks.
 
  
  In addition to your characters leveling up your party can level up too. The result of your party 
 leveling up changes for each level you move up. Each level provides both bonuses and some time 
 limits imposed on the entire party. In general each time your party levels up the combat becomes 
 increasingly fast and furious and the strategies you use will change depending on those levels 
 as well. The result is that the combat remains fresh and exciting thru the entire game.
  
  If there is a downside to the combat it is that the opponents you will fight in Eternal Sonata 
 are almost universally weak and highly repetitive. While your enemies can use the light and dark 
 spaces on the battlefield to go as far as even morph into different creatures the morphing almost 
 seems like a contrivance to keep things fresh in terms of the variety of enemies. 
  
  In truth even with morphing enemies your approach to them won't need to change much at all. Also 
 it is disappointing that as you progress thru the latter half of the game you are simply presented 
 identical opponents to those you fought in the first half, and those really aren't that much stronger. 
 
  
  It doesn't help that one character has an ability to take and sell photographs that will provide 
 you with an incredible amount of money. Even if you just dabble in the photography system you'll 
 be able to buy more than enough weapons, armor, and healing items thru the entire game.
  
  Unless you choose to skip a lot of encounters and race thru the game your characters will level 
 up fairly quickly. I am by no means a seasoned RPG player and I was never once killed by any of 
 the standard enemies throughout the entire game. Nor did I feel that I was ever really threatened 
 by them.
  
  The game does provide the option to play thru it again after you complete it the first time at 
 a notably increased difficulty level although that hardly seems to make up for what is a surprisingly 
 easy first run thru. There aren't many optional activities and just about any player should get 
 thru Eternal Sonata in about thirty hours. 
  
  Another disappointment is the dialogue throughout Eternal Sonata. While the characters personalities 
 are fun and enjoyable the dialogue can be odd and even grating. It can be odd when a number of 
 times thru the game the characters will have discussion pondering topics like revolution or blind 
 patriotism without seemingly anything initiating the conversation. Of course after the very next 
 plot event later the discussion is suddenly very much on topic. It might be thought of as foreshadowing 
 but it the discussions happen so often, are awfully specific, and it are so heavy handed it ruins 
 many of plot twists thru the whole game. It doesn't help that there aren't many plot twists to 
 begin with.
  
  Additionally the dialogue between characters often seems a bit awkward. The voice acting with different 
 accents is great all around. However, many phrases throughout the game are recycled ad nauseam 
 such as "suffering from a terminal illness" in the same discussion by the all characters, even 
 throughout the entire game. Perhaps it was a result of the translation or just a difference between 
 Japanese to English but nobody ever just truncates a phrase like that to "dying". It doesn't help 
 that it even goes beyond phrases to where entire sentences (that often seem a bit pretentious and 
 melodramatic to begin with) are repeated word for word as they go around the group and discuss 
 the matter.
  
  One scene that should be particularly poignant involves a five minute discussion between two characters. 
 One character leaves and the other remains behind and reflects on the discussion. The problem being 
 that while character reflects out loud about the conversation they just had they also have a series 
 of flashbacks that covers ever single word of the discussion. that you were just shown. The result 
 being what feels like someone stretching for time or squeezing every bit of emotional turmoil possible 
 out of the scene that you just saw.
  
  The relationships between characters also come up a little short of expectations if only because 
 at thirty hours the game doesn't have enough time to spend with them. There are subplots, romance, 
 and pasts galore hinted at for many of your characters but sadly some are resolved in a rush and 
 most others loose ends are just left hanging at the end of the game. Additionally some of the predictions 
 and ambitions of one of the characters who plays a key role in the final scenes are never explained 
 at all. This gives the impression that while all well meaning the game feels a bit rushed, but 
 fortunately not incomplete.
  
  Without loose ends is the music in Eternal Sonata. Eternal Sonata has some of the catchiest, and 
 probably some of the most defined music in any game. Understandably this is because much of the 
 music is Chopin's own music. While other games will have vague orchestral themes for various locations 
 Eternal Sonata's themes are recognizable, memorable, and with a sort of definition and clarity 
 that few games have. It is a wonder why more games don't simply adapt great existing classical 
 music.
  
  Despite being of a pushover, and slathered in a fair amount of melodrama Eternal Sonata still plays 
 great, sounds wonderful, and looks outstanding, and the story is a memorable one. If you can handle 
 a bit of a sappy JRPG and are looking for a fairly easy but beautiful stroll thru a quality JRPG 
 Eternal Sonata is at least worth a rental.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Azhar85
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 23, 2007 7:20 pm PT
Review:  You know, before this, you will never find any kind of this RPG in Xbox original market. You will 
 only find many kind of this RPG in Sony PS2 market. So for me, in this new gaming era, MS do a 
 good job for bringing this kind of RPG to the 360. This is because, from my experience and info 
 about this type of games, Japanese gamers love to play this type of games because it is simple, 
 cute, and interesting. So it was a good start for the Xbox 360 to be popular in Japan since it 
 was quite defeated by the Sony PS3 and Nintendo Wii there. In conclusion, for those who like to 
 play a RPG games like me ( I swear, I am a fanatic fan of RPG games though..) I recommend you all 
 to buy this game, If not, just rent it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TTDog
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 20, 2007 10:33 am PT
Review:  Eternal Sonata contains all the elements that I hate about Japanese RPG's.
  The need to keep fighting above and beyond the call of duty to level up to sufficient strength 
 to kill a boss, annoyingly cute kiddy characters who you just get the urge to slap, even areas 
 where the layout of the game is random and requires you to blindly run from room to room in hope 
 that you stumble across the item you're looking for.
  Thankfully it does not make use of the tired and dated "Random Battle" mechanic, but despite fighting 
 everything that was put in front of me, sometimes more than once, I was still vastly under powered 
 when I came to a Boss battle later in the game, and had little option but to spend the next 5 or 
 6 hours backtracking and fighting over and over again just to raise my level.
  Several of your party are little more than annoying simpletons who seem to think they can get through 
 life with nothing more than a cheap smile, the sickly sweet aura they emit just makes you want 
 to punch them in the face repeatedly.
  And yet I still love the game.
  Even after finishing, 36 hours later, a game that is filled with almost everything I hate about 
 JRPG's I still intend to put myself through it again.
  Sporting some of the best graphics you'll come across in an RPG, especially during the cut-scenes, 
 and some great music (but for a game based on a composers dream you sort of hope the music was 
 up to scratch) add to the atmosphere and you can't help but enjoy what you're doing, even if it 
 is fighting some bizarre looking fish creature for the 22nd time.
  The combat system is nicely done, with different attacks available, for you and whatever you happen 
 to be fighting, dependant on whether you stand in light or shadows, and to keep things fresh as 
 your party levels up the system changes as well, so its not just a case of repeatedly hammering 
 one or two buttons to death.
  The one major gripe is that you have no control over the camera ever, and as the right stick isn't 
 used, it would be nice to change the angle at times as you run down the forest pathways or if your 
 view is obscured in a battle by some hulking great dragon.
  Even if you don't normal go for JRPG's this is worth a look, at least download the demo so you 
 can give it a try first definitely worth it.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sonic_Freak87
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 19, 2007 11:46 am PT
Review:  It's kind of hard to find a place to start with a game as awesome at this.
  cause this game does pretty much everything right, and the combat is one of the most original ever. 
 though comparable to that of tales of symphonia.
  So, i guess i'll start with the battle system. You have and action gauge, which at first doesn't 
 go down at all until you move because of your tactical time (tt)
  and it lasts about 4-5 seconds i'm pretty sure. but as the game progresses and as your party level 
 goes up the time you have on the action gauge starts to go down giving you only 3 seconds ultimately. 
 but. it's actually a very nice touch because it adds a strategic element to the game that most 
 other buttons mashing rpgs do not. (i. e dynasty warriors and so on) and there's a combo that you 
 can build between your players called echos. when one of your players use it though then it goes 
 away. oh, and the battle system is co-op up to three players can play. and it is really really 
 fun, it's nice to get the other players in the game rather then making them sit there and watch. 
 or having them beg for the controller. So, all of this mixed with amazing visuals in high def or 
 not, and and a freakin' awesome/pretty original story line makes this one a must play if you're 
 a fan of any rpg or are just looking for an original game with a good story line. oh, and not to 
 mention. this game has some of best piano pieces i've heard and are re-done pieces of chopin'. 
 i'm only giving it a 9.5 because i found the game to be just a little bit to easy, it was only 
 hard for a little while when i had to play as secondary charecter's. and some of the enemy A. I 
 is pretty stupid. (I. E. the enemy will completely avoid you or just plain run into a wall) but 
 all in all, it's a masterful game and i hope this isn't the last. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: browse79
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 18, 2007 6:59 pm PT
Review:  Just when I thought that I was burned out from playing RPGs (role-playing games) Eternal Sonata 
 gets me back on the habit. A harmless trial has ended in the now endless pursuit of experience 
 points and searching every nook and cranny for hidden items. Developed by tri-crescendo, who has 
 made a number of solid games for the Gamecube and Playstation (Baiten Kaitos, Valkarie Profile) , 
 Eternal Sonata is their first title for the 360 and PS3. The game carries the typical RPG plot: 
 a small group of heroes fight against a ruthless dictator trying to enslave the kingdom. However 
 the story takes a Never-ending Story twist since the fictionally story takes place inside the dream 
 of Frederic Chopin, the famous Polish composer. The movie sequences of the game alternate between 
 the heroes' story and Chopin sleeping in his deathbed battling pulmonary problems surrounded by 
 loved ones. In addition, small biographies of Chopin's life is depicted accompanied by the music 
 he composed during that time period (yes, it's educational too) . In developing Eternal Sonata in 
 such a manner, tri-crescendo manages to bring a pleasant union to what would normally be the strange 
 bedfellows of music appreciation and videogame playing.
  Being accustomed to menu based RPGs, I've never been fond of free roaming RPGs but somehow Eternal 
 Sonata has managed to grab my attention. The main battle system consists of a timer that decreases 
 when it becomes a hero's or an enemy's turn. Each character can move freely and attack or assist 
 comrades as long as time allows. While it's the enemy's turn, the game still manages to be exciting 
 by allowing damage to be reduced if the guard button is pressed at the right time. The important 
 part of the battle system is that consecutive regular attacks can be built up among allies to make 
 special moves more powerful. Special attacks are learned as characters level up (by defeating enemies 
 and earning experience points) . The special attacks are pleasant to watch as they have fancy animations 
 and, when used strategically, can attack more than one enemy at a time. Contradicting a staple 
 to RPG games, magic points do not exist in Eternal Sonata. Special attacks can be used as often 
 as time allows. This makes fighting more manageable but might also help RPGs virgins to pick up 
 the genre. Did I mention there's an option to play cooperative on multiplayer?
  Eternal Sonata rewards exploration. The stages continually branch out to numerous paths where treasures 
 are sometimes cleverly hidden. Talking to different people in towns will also generate useful items. 
 The game incorporates by far the easiest way to earn money by taking photograph of enemies that 
 can be sold at shops for big bucks depending on the picture quality. While this system can be easily 
 abused, not having to round up every loose change for weapon and armor upgrades is a big plus and 
 a nice change for an RPG game. Compared to the endless amount of side events that games like Final 
 Fantasy offer (card games and monster collection) , Eternal Sonata does not have many side events. 
 There is a domino effect-type trading with specific people that unlocks rare items. Songs can also 
 be collected and played with specific people to also obtain rare items, but the game must be played 
 twice to obtain all of the two dozens songs. The few incentives on side events can be a blessing 
 or a curse depending on the player. However, considering the life-sucking practices of most side 
 events in RPGs, playing a more straight forward game is a welcome change of pace.
  The art of the game has a cutesy anime-ish style to say the least. Characters have big shiny eyes, 
 overly round cheeks, eccentric clothing, and such child-like sweetness that'll give cavities. The 
 environments are filled with lush bright color and the large amount of detail is easily appreciated. 
 Following the cutesy flavor of the game, enemies include mushroom and onion monsters but nothing 
 too dark or horrific. However, with the exception of bosses, enemies are recycled too often throughout 
 the game. The music is extraordinarily orchestrated but, ironically, doest not imitate the composing 
 style of Chopin. This eventually results in singling out Chopin composition more appropriately 
 and brings appreciation to his work. The English voice acting, an element that can generally get 
 overlooked in games imported from Japanese is also excellent. The character's voice pitch consistently 
 delivers with enthusiasm and individuality.
  Yes, RPGs by nature are an extremely long, time consuming ordeal. My hope was to quit playing them 
 and explore other horizons like adventure and competitive games. Now it looks like my exploration 
 will have to wait till Eternal Sonata gets put to rest. Thanks to its engaging battle system, straight 
 forward gameplay, and unique biographic storyline, the feeling of RPG burn out apparently still 
 has fuel to burn. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: watashinicksan
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 17, 2007 10:16 pm PT
Review:  I've been wanting to play this game since it was first announced under its Japanese title Trusty 
 Bell. This game comes from the same development team of Namco/Bandai that made the Tales series 
 of JRPGs. I've only played Tales of Symphonia, but I can see the similarities between the two.
 
  However, this game's story is far more interesting. It takes the classical piano player Chopin 
 and throws him into a jRPG fairy tale world. The whole game has him questioning the world. At the 
 outset, he's confident that the world is just a dream he's having as he lies on his deathbed. But 
 as he grows attached to the people and the world's plight, he starts to realize that there may 
 be very little separating dreams from reality. 
  In the world of Eternal Sonata, people with terminal illnesses can use magic, to the fright of 
 everyone else. Along with Chopin (tuburculosous was terminal in the 19th century) , the other character 
 with terminal illness is Polka, a 14 year old girl who sells floral powder in the city near her 
 village. All she wants with her remaining years is to make people happy, but nobody wants to come 
 near her because they believe her disease is contagious. Her floral powder doesn't sell either, 
 because of a cheaper Mineral Powder.
  The game starts as a quest to speak with the king who is behind supporting mineral powder. It evolves 
 into an epic tragedy and moral dilemma type story.
  Only slightly cliche, the story is told incredibly well through many, and I mean MANY cutscenes, 
 often to its detriment. Whenever you beat a boss, cutscene. Whenever you complete a quest, cutscene. 
 Whenever you walk 10 steps, cutsene. Okay, I'm exagerrating about the last one. But you catch my 
 drift. This is already an insanely short game for an RPG, under 20 hours. (it took me 19:51, and 
 I watched every cutscene and took time to level) So the actual gameplay is around probably 10. 
 Luckily though, the developers including the option to skip these sequences. I only skipped the 
 Chopin song scenes because if I want to watch the History Channel, I don't play a video game. So 
 while the game can be downright preachy, it's expertly written and often thought provoking.
  Meshing with this story is some very beautiful anime inspired graphics. The game is like watching 
 a 3d anime, it's really a marvel. It can't be compared to a game like Oblivion or Bioshock, because 
 it doesn't aim at realism. But it does exceed in emphasizing the fantasy feel of the game, and 
 unlike those games, the graphics are more light hearted which fit with the fantasy setting.
  Along with some great graphics is an excellent original score and performances of Chopin's pieces. 
 The music is catchy and moving, so much so that I downloaded the soundtrack, all 80 tracks!
  The voice acting is good to a degree. It sounds like an anime dub, and as such it didn't feel right 
 to me playing it in English. Also, I found Beat's voice to be INCREDIBLY annoying, like nails on 
 a chalkboard. So I played the game with Japanese voiceover and english subs. Which was helpful 
 since I'm learning Japanese. Props to the developers for allowing you to switch between languages 
 on the fly. The lack of subtitles in battle was excusable, but for some reason there were no subs 
 at the ending at all! Seriously made me angry. 
  Another aspect I didn't like was that you only have the choice to equip your character with 1 weapon, 
 1 armor, and 2 relics. Another aspect of the game that I think was too oversimplified.
  The game is just way too easy. It's probably possible to get through the game without dying at 
 all. The bosses aren't very challenging, I never used any support items besides healing. When I 
 got all the characters at once I never switched between them, I just used Alegretto, Beat, and 
 Viola.
  It seemed like not that many items could be found for Chopin, which was dissapointing because playing 
 as a legendary musician in a game is bad ass. But as you'll see in the end it's probably better 
 not to include him in your party...
  The battle system is engaging, if somewhat button-masher friendly. Just like the Tales games, I 
 found that you could just keep slashing away with no real strategy. Which is sad, because the enjoyment 
 comes from the strategy elements in an RPG. The status ailments aren't really even a bother. They 
 don't last outside of battle, and I was only poisoned, nothing else. I didn't even bother to cure 
 it and it didn't affect the outcome of the battle. I like that you can see your enemies on the 
 field screen and choose to avoid them, and how like in Earthbound depending on what direction you're 
 facing you will get the upper hand. 
  It might seem like I'm trashing this game, but I really had a good time with it, and I was upset 
 it was so short. The story and graphics are great, the battle system is addictive. The game did 
 make me want to learn more about Chopin, and listen to some of his music. It's probably the best 
 jRPG out on the 360 at the moment, judging from the poor reviews of Blue Dragon and Enchanted Arms. 
 I would in fact recommend it, but you'll probably play it only once. While there is a new game 
 plus, which you can use to go back and find the missing score pieces (a minigame where you play 
 a score piece with someone to see if they match, if they do you get an item) , or the achievements. 
 In my opinion it is underapprieciated with mass market games like Halo 3. It's story is fresh, 
 and the 360 is going to need games like this to draw in niche appeal so as not to be labeled "the 
 shooter system". Eternal Sonata is fun while it lasts, which is short. Just like the life expectancy 
 of someone with a terminal illness. Bad joke, sorry. It's worth a rental at the very least. Just 
 don't pay $60 for it, don't pay over $30.
  I payed $4 to rent it, and as a rental I was impressed. It's a charming little game that you either 
 love or hate. For as long as it lasted, I loved it. Give it a shot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lilman5100
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 14, 2007 6:54 am PT
Review:  Eternal Sonata is an amazing RPG with fascinating, detailed graphics, especially on the scenary! 
 The battle system is different than most RPGs that have been played, however i believe it makes 
 the game rather entertaining. The story is an unbelieveable one as well, the soundtrack is also 
 amazing. I love that fact all the names (or at least most of them) are named after musical things. 
 I find this game to be one of the most entertaining games for the 360 and it beat the hell out 
 of Enchanted Arms. Definately not better than final fantasy either but definately up there in the 
 ranks. I would say Eternal Sonata is up in my top 5 games for sure! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bleigh316
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 13, 2007 11:46 pm PT
Review:  Very rarely does the idea of an RPG starring a famous musician end up being a surprisingly good 
 game with a few twists on the conventional RPG. That happened here with Eternal Sonata. At its 
 gameplay heart, it is a lot like Star Ocean, but that does not take into account all the interesting 
 quirks that make ES a very worthwhile game to check out.
  
  What sets Eternal Sonata apart from just about every other RPG is its main character, Frederic 
 Francois Chopin. Yes that Frederic Chopin, the famous pianist. The large majority of ES takes place 
 within a dream that is taking place within Chopin's mind while he is on his deathbed in real life. 
 Few games nowadays take a chance with a story like ES's. And what really helps ES's story is that 
 the characters are pretty well done and voice very well to help bring them to life. The story itself 
 does struggle at times due to premise and the dialogue's love of preaching. But still, what's here 
 is good and so is everything else.
  
  As I stated, the basic premise to Eternal Sonata is that in real life, Frederic Chopin is on his 
 deathbed, however in his mind, he is in a fantasy reality where he joins events already in progress 
 which bring him into a world nearing a war. Chopin initially meets up with Polka, a young girl 
 with the curse of magic, because in this world if you are capable of using magic, you are near 
 death. The initial conflict stems a medicinal item called mineral powder, used by the citizens 
 of Forte, ruled by the villainous Count Waltz. The mineral powder issue is only the tip of the 
 iceberg when Polka and Chopin meet up with eventual party members Allegretto, Beat & Viola. As 
 with most RPGs, once the party starts to come together, things start to escalate.
  
  And as the situation escalates, so does the gameplay. At its heart, Eternal Sonata's gameplay is 
 reminiscent of Star Ocean's, in that there are enemies on screen as you are exploring, and when 
 you come in contact with them, you enter battle and control a character as you move around the 
 battle field in real time attacking whatever enemy you're facing. But here's where things differ. 
 ES mixes in some turns with that real time combat, including a few other things, like Tactical 
 Time, Echoes and Harmony Chains. As you progress through the game, your party level will increase 
 at certain intervals opening more real time features. At party level 1, you have infinite tactical 
 time at the beginning of each turn, which means you can take your time deciding who you want to 
 attack first. Once you start moving, an action gauge will start to tick down until your character's 
 turn ends. As the party level increases, your tactical time decreases, as will the action gauge, 
 until at party level 6 battles occur purely in real time. Also you gain access to Echoes, essentially 
 combo chains. At party level 4 you gain access to Harmony Chains where you can potentially unleash 
 two special attacks at the end of a turn for big damage. At party level 6, the battle system can 
 seem very chaotic compared to party level 1, but thankfully you'll have plenty of time to learn 
 the intricacies of the battle system by the time you unlock the last three party levels.
  
  The battles themselves are action-oriented. When you enter combat you can freely move around the 
 battlefield. Attacking is as simple as pressing the A button to start a combo. You can unleash 
 special attacks by pressing Y, which vary for each character: some heal spells, some more ranged 
 attacks, some up close attacks. What also really helps is another feature where, based on whether 
 you are in sunlight or darkness, your special attacks vary, as well as your enemies. Your party 
 members have access to light and dark special attacks, and the enemies you fight change size and 
 strength whether they are in the light or darkness. It's a very neat system to add that works very 
 well and adds some extra strategy. Throw in a few challenging fights as well as a bonus dungeon, 
 and there's enough gameplay.
  
  Graphically Eternal Sonata looks amazing. The environments, which at times are generic (lava area, 
 snowy mountains, swamplands, forest, etc) , still look very good via a great color scheme. Not since 
 Okami have I seen such a beautifully artistic game. If it weren't for the fixed camera angles, 
 you could get plenty of great views in game. Even still, there are plenty of good visuals in ES.
 
  
  On the sound end, the music is very good. You'll hear plenty of Chopin's music as well as other 
 themes along the way. The Chopin pieces are fantastic, and a few of the other themes stand out, 
 such as the music played during Count Waltz's scenes early in the game. Most of the voice acting 
 is solid, and they do a fine job of portraying their characters.
  
  Now from what I've mentioned so far, it sounds like I really enjoyed Eternal Sonata, which I really 
 did. However, I must point out a couple things that did take away from ES. First, and I didn't 
 find this to be a bad thing, but for an RPG, ES can be finished in just over 20 hours, add a handful 
 more if you want to complete the bonus dungeon. More to the point, ES is preachy, very preachy. 
 There'll be plenty of times where the party will be discussing certain events, and then jump into 
 a preachy lecture about some real world trouble. But what I found to be the worst part was the 
 game's ending. Now I will admit that after some reflecting, the ending wasn't quite as bad as I 
 believed while it was playing. However, it was a tad confusing as there were some parts that were 
 brought up without being addressed during the game. Also the credits were extremely preachy, enough 
 for me to mute the TV. Now I'm not saying that the ending ruined the game, although I am saying 
 that it did leave a sour taste. However, the rest of the game was still good and the premise interesting 
 enough to carry the game.
  
  Overall I still have the give Eternal Sonata good marks because everything about the game is very 
 solid. Honestly the ending did lessen my love for the game, but still the game was good enough 
 throughout the adventure to merit worth playing, especially for its innovative setting and solid 
 combat. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spunkymulvagh
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 9, 2007 2:02 pm PT
Review:  Eternal Sonata is a true work of art both Visually and Audio wise.
  
  This is a great jrpg The demo sold me on this game and I love almost everything about it
  It 
 has the best cel shaded graphics I have seen yet with stunning bacgrounds that pull you in to the 
 story.
  With a Amazing music score of Chopins wonderful Piano music setting the mood for each area you 
 explore.
  the only thing I do not like are the englis voices some of them are a bit much 
  but thats hardly enogh for me no not give this game a high score.
  
  Now should i try Blue 
 Dragon?
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: 3KindgomsRandy
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 9, 2007 10:36 am PT
Review:  If you're reading this review, by now you probably know this story is based around the final hours 
 of the classical composer Frederic Francois Chopin's life. As he lay in bed dying of Tuberculosis, 
 a part of him embarks on a fantastic journey into a beautiful world in need of help. 
  
  Visuals: 9.5 
  If you've seen videos of this or looked at the still shots, you can already see 
 that this game has it where it counts, visually (and if you haven't seen them, do yourself a favor 
 and check them out) . 
  The entire world is gorgeous, and I mean gorgeous. From cities and dungeons, to party members and 
 enemies, to flowers and trees, even to NPC's which are surprisingly well done. There's not a part 
 of this game that doesn't look great with its fun art style somewhere between cell shaded and anime. 
 
  The only negative for me is some repetitive enemy designs (which were all good, but c'mon, how 
 many times do I have to fight a different version of a walking onion?)
  
  Music: 10 
  Honestly, I'm not sure there's anything bad I can say about the music in this game. The battle 
 music is dramatic and tense, and the cutscene music varies perfectly from light and breezy to ominous 
 and stirring. 
  The selections of Chopin's music that are played to historical segments of the real Frederic's 
 life are just beautiful.
  
  Sound: 8 
  There isn't anything wrong with the sounds in the game, there's just not anything great about them. 
 Pretty average, but they always get the job done. It would have been nice if bows would twang and 
 swords would sound more metallic when hitting enemies, but overall, the sound was solid.
  
  Voice Acting: 8.5 
  Let me start by saying several of the English voice actors were great and 
 the rest were fine, for the main party. The actor used for Chopin was very good, as were the actors 
 for Polka and Allegretto, but they get dragged down a bit be some of the supplementary characters 
 including several of the main antagonists. 
  Some of the dialogue was a tad repetitive and there were a few strange pauses in delivery, but 
 overall, this was another nice portion of the game.
  
  Storyline: 8 
  Linear and sometimes complex, the story is a bonus for some and a negative for others. For me, 
 I found it to be intriguing and I liked the mystery of trying to decide whether everything is taking 
 place if Frederic's dreams or not. 
  If you aren't paying attention, the story will not make much sense and it does seem to go off on 
 a tangent after a certain point, but it all ties together nicely at the end.
  
  Gameplay: 10
  I thoroughly enjoyed all portions of the gameplay. The battle sequence is done 
 as sort of a mixture between Real Time and Turn Based. As you start your turn you have a certain 
 amount of time to plot your move (known as tactical time) . After your tactical phase, you move 
 into action phase where you have a certain amount of time to move, attack use items or attempt 
 to flee. 
  At the start of the game, tactical time is unlimited as long as you don't move, but after you hit 
 certain points in the game, the combat system changes slightly to offer you less time for planning 
 and less time for acting as well. This is offset by granting you additional abilities in combat 
 such as counterattacking, linking your special moves together, and faster character movement. 
 
  There are no puzzles to solve and few sidequests to do, but the game plays just as it should with 
 no hiccups.
  
  Final Score - 9.0 
  So there you have it. If you haven't had a chance to play Eternal Sonata yet, and you are an RPG 
 fan, I can't recommend it to you enough. The difficulty is a little low outside of a few bosses 
 and a pretty difficult bonus dungeon near the end, but it offers so much more than that.
  
  My total time to finish the game - 34 hours 11 minutes.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Auroni
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 8, 2007 7:16 pm PT
Review:  Eternal Sonata overall is a great game. The storyline from the get go intriques you. The graphics 
 are amazing especially because it takes a different approach than the typical RPG. What makes this 
 great even more special is the fact that Chopin's music is used perfectly through the games storytelling. 
 Finally, the combat system is unique for an RPG (well for me but I haven't played alot of RPG's) 
 and it definiately works.
  
  The story begins with Polka, a girl who will die soon because she can use magic. She wants to make 
 a difference in the world and travels to Forte with Fredrick Chopin, a musician who believes that 
 the game's world is his dream. On the way they meet Algretto, Polka's love interest and arguably 
 the hero of the game, and Beat. From there they try to explain to the Prince that the mineral water 
 that Forte is supporting is turning the citizens into monsters. Unfortunately, the story takes 
 a turn for the worse near the end but some intelligent people can explain it pretty well on Gamefaqs 
 or Xbox. com boards. Music is important in most great video games but Eternal Sonata defines the 
 importance. Since the game is based on Fredrick Chopin, a famous composer, each chapter is based 
 on one of his works. Somewhere in each chapter they further explain the life of Chopin. Besides 
 Chopin's great scores, the music during gameplay is simply magnificant. And you can always replay 
 the music in one of the ingame menus. The gameplay also works really well in the RPG. Its not the 
 standard stand in the same spot clicking one button to attack. You can move and do special attacks 
 or regular attacks. Further on, you have the ability to do more damage with Harmony Chains which 
 adds an interesting take especially through the second playthrough.
  
  Overall, I'm not really an RPG fan but I found the game satisfying and worth the money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dreski83
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 6, 2007 6:06 pm PT
Review:  Have you ever played a game that seemed so wrong yet so right? Take Eternal Sonata for prime example, 
 something so cushy and simple quietly holding deep meanings of life through out the story and gameplay 
 worth enjoying. If you are a big RPG fan its only right to sample another gem that tumbles thru 
 the rough. And if your too cynical and critical to actually see the game at face value for what 
 it is, you could be in the wrong.
  
  GAMEPLAY
  In the beginning of the game you are introduced to only a few characters and limited spaced environments. 
 There is a fair share of items hidden within the colorful world that can assist you in side quest 
 in such, but nothing critical to finishing the game. Taking part in battle early on might seem 
 a bit tedious, but for all the level grinders out there its well balanced thanks to enemies actually 
 walking in the open. If you want to smash some cute bunnies, bash until your hearts content. If 
 you can't stand the repition feel free to manuver around them, but heed my warning when I say baddies 
 get much tougher in the later parts. Leveling up characters once they join your party is not difficult 
 since every one gains experience, even when not in battle. Finding a fearsome team of three characters 
 is easy, especially with various skills at your finger tips. Once in battle, you'll be mighty happy 
 to see your patience pay off with a very intuitive system that rewards you well for using your 
 characters and their abilities to the max. It may seem uber at times, but the boss battles can 
 get a bit unfair if ill prepared.
  
  VISUALS
  This game may not be on par with something like Gears of War detail, but its artistic value is 
 rich. Right away you'll feel welcomed in the world that is bright and colorful, but not too intrusive. 
 Environment designs are simple due to keeping the player focused on tasks at hand, yet they offer 
 wonderful interiors and exteriors worth taking a few moments to appreciate. One big flaw I noticed 
 from start to finish in the game is the stale animations. I personally enjoy overly animated characters 
 who express themselves in body language, sadly ES is not that kind of party. Besides characters 
 having a stiff performance during cut scenes, dialogue exchange is a painful reminder why acting 
 coaches even exsist in any area of entertainment. Once over this hurdle, you might find enjoyment 
 in such small details as character expressions and environment structures.
  
  AUDIO
  If anything was to be considered next-gen in RPG's, it would have to be actual audible dialogue 
 during cut scenes. It may be my years of reading endless amounts of text boxes that merits such 
 a feeling, but after long stretches of venturing, nothing beats setting the controller down for 
 a bit and hearing story unfold. Whats really cool about the dialogue is even after feeling like 
 you've heard every possible line coming from a mile away, every so often you hear a response that 
 sounds genuinely human. Being able to skip such cut scenes is okay, but mid way thru the game you 
 begin to really identify with some of the cast thanks to such scarce moments.
  
  EXTRAS
  With very little selection for the 360 in the area of RPG's, something Microsoft seems to suffer 
 greatly from, this game is meant for a RPG lover and not a gamer addicted to acheivements. No doubt 
 will you gain a decent hundred or so from one play thru, but any game that scatters items and treasures 
 about in hopes that you actually play a second time is designed for the dedicated. Discovering 
 items such as score pieces which is music you can play for NPC's helps in unlocking goodies that 
 can't be aquired any other way. Fitting as a entertaining deterent from the main story, its far 
 from a must to enjoy the game. If you are looking for something to hold you over until the next 
 big adventure, a second play thru can be valuable to small bits within the overall story and very 
 rewarding achievement wise.
  
  OVERALL
  I had a lot of hope for a game that took great care in emulating a battle system similar to greats 
 such as Grandia and adding their own twist to it. And in no way did they fail. I would have prefered 
 for a lot more attention to small things such as smoother voice acting and character animations, 
 yet wonderful graphics and harmonious music themes from start to finish compliment this game in 
 a big way. The part that pleases me even more in spending money on ES is it fits into a category 
 of games in a genre that seems too focused on cattering to what people want rather than developing 
 something to be proud of. That may come off as a big statement from a mere gamer, but after years 
 of enjoying numerous RPG's I like to think my judgement isn't too far off base. If you seek a worthy 
 adventure Eternal Sonata is worth checking out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sheik_n_Zelda
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 1, 2007 5:25 pm PT
Review:  http://www. projectcoe. com/microsoft/games/eternal_sonata. html? var1=sc3
  
  The words RPG and Xbox don't really associate. Sure Microsoft's first console had a few like Fable 
 and KOTOR, but the brand's RPG library has suffered, especially when compared to the likes of the 
 PlayStation line. Reason being, most of the industry's critically acclaimed RPGs come from developers 
 that call The Land of the Rising Sun home. Since the words Microsoft and Japan also don't mix very 
 well, the Xbox hasn't seen much success. Even with Blue Dragon, a recent project from Mistwalker, 
 the Japs just didn't bite. Namco-Bandai, however, has put some faith in the system, and the intriguing 
 Eternal Sonata is a result of that belief.
  
  We don't know why a Japanese developer chose to illustrate the life of infamous Polish composer 
 Frederic Chopin in a videogame, but we're glad they did, because it's an inspiring experience. 
 Eternal Sonata doesn't chronicle his whole life though, as it does something different. It plays 
 off the time that Chopin is in his death bed, plagued with tuberculosis, and also comatose. While 
 it's obviously possible to know what was going through his mind then, tri-Crescendo decided he 
 was dreaming, and that's what Eternal Sonata is all about. What has resulted is Chopin's illusory 
 imagination creating a massive world full of likeable characters.
  
  The plot follows Polka (yes, every character has a musically-themed name) as she journeys to find 
 out why the government, more specifically, Count Waltz, is taxing floral powder into the ground. 
 There's big competition between two medicines, mineral and floral powder, and the former is causing 
 a mess of problems. Most of the world's denizens refuse to disbelieve that mineral powder cures 
 all ails, along with the fact that floral powder spreads disease, which just happens to be magic. 
 While this is relevant to the story, that's just the beginning, as you soon discover a more sinister 
 plot hidden underneath. What immediately jumps out about Eternal Sonata is how good the game looks. 
 Its presentation isn't something we've seen very often, if ever, as the style can't be described 
 as anime-like, cel-shaded, or even 3D. It's really touch to describe actually. The game is really 
 2D, but how everything is drawn tactfully tricks you into believing otherwise. The art is extremely 
 beautiful, as it brings everything in every environment to life with lush colors, bloom lighting 
 and a variety of other effects. It's something you really have to see to believe, or understand 
 altogether. The characters have unique attire that's intricately detailed, and animations for the 
 most part are adequate. Although, Eternal Sonata could've done without so much unnatural movement 
 during conversations, and the characters could've used more battle animations. Facial expressions 
 would've also benefitted from more human-like conviction, because they look stoic.
  
  The music more than makes up for any graphical hiccups though. Not only is Mr. Chopin's own work 
 featured in Eternal Sonata, but the themes that aren't sound inspired by him, and help convey the 
 game's emotion and big heart. You even obtain musical scores that can be played with random NPCs, 
 and if you do well, you receive something very nice. I'm not musically inclined though, so I sucked 
 at it, which also means I didn't like it. The battle theme is all right, as it takes some time 
 for it to deliver that dramatic feeling. It's a bit disappointing, but tolerable. When you aren't 
 hearing music, voice acting is likely to take its place. While it's a bit strange that not all 
 of the dialogue is voiced (since there's only a few instances of reading) , what you do hear is 
 extremely well-done. While I didn't particularly care for Beat's high-pitched young boy voice or 
 Salsa's arrogant, Southern-style accent, everyone else is truly top-notch. The emotion is there, 
 as is the passion, making it overall authentic. As for the sound effects, they serve their purpose 
 in and out battle. Whether that deals with footsteps on various surfaces, or the clash of the characters' 
 weapons, it's all generally pleasing.
  
  Battle is where Eternal Sonata's main action takes place, and thankfully it's enjoyable, for the 
 most part. Three members, once you have that many, participate in battle, and they are initiated 
 by coming in contact with visible enemies in whatever area you happen to be in. The screen transitions 
 to a more battlefield-appropriate environment, and how it functions is interesting. There are two 
 timers to keep track of, Tactical and Action. Tactical allows you to strategically plan before 
 you move, and the second that you actually do so, the Action gauge ticks down. You are free to 
 navigate anywhere within the confines, use your weapon, an item or special attack, or simply do 
 nothing. Battles also work with a light and darkness setup. Either can be cast on the field, and 
 your special attacks are affected, as you can bring out light-based abilities when you're standing 
 in such, and the same goes for dark. Enemies can also change into something completely different 
 depending on where they are. For example, a bat is its rodent self in the light, but a giant scorpion 
 creature in the dark.
  
  It doesn't stop there. Your party has its own level that has a bearing on how much Tactical/Action 
 time you have, how many item slots are available, and a couple other battle concepts. New levels 
 are achieved after a major boss fight, and there are six total. This mechanic actually helps battles 
 feel fresh altogether as you progress through Eternal Sonata, and that's a good thing, because 
 they wouldn't have otherwise. There are a few things I didn't like though. First and foremost, 
 combos are done by mashing the A button, and that never changes, which leads to harsh repetition. 
 You also can't interrupt a character's attack animation, which is annoying because when you only 
 have four or five sections to make the most of your turn, you don't want to feel restricted. Additionally, 
 counterattacking is fairly lame, mostly due to their being available far too late in the game, 
 and their possible use is too infrequent and random. I also wouldn't be surprised if RPG enthusiasts 
 scoffed at the rather easy difficulty. I did die a few times, but I stress a few. Your party's 
 strength is generally much more advanced than the enemies you face. A friend of mine who watched 
 me play was especially surprised to see me doing two to twenty times the damage that my enemies 
 were. I enjoyed the system though, especially with Viola (love!) , because just having that notion 
 that you can kick some ass is my kind of thing. This also plays in part to the Echoes concept. 
 Once unlocked for your party, successful combos can eventually rack up to 32 Echoes. You need them 
 to utilize special attacks, and when you consider how fun they are with group Harmonies, and how 
 necessary they are for things like healing, you grow to be very fond and appreciative of the system.
 
  
  Finally, since Eternal Sonata is geared more towards a flowing plot and fairly constant action 
 rather, exploration is rather nonexistent. If you can't live without that in your RPGs, this game 
 won't satisfy you. Progression is linear, and about 90% of the game forces you to navigate through 
 the world's areas on a fixed and restricted path. You can certainly see a lot, but you won't be 
 able to go to most of it. I didn't mind it since it didn't seem detractive of the quality, but 
 we know some of you would hate it. This also lends to Eternal Sonata being shorter than most typical 
 RPGs that generally run 40 to 80 hours. My first playthrough clocked in at just over 25, but it 
 could definitely take up to 30 if you try to accomplish everything. Nevertheless, the game is fairly 
 quick for RPG standards.
  
  It's unfortunate that Blue Dragon wasn't received well, which didn't help the 360 much in Japan, 
 nor its reputation in the RPG market, but Eternal Sonata is here. While the game obviously doesn't 
 have the marketability of Final Fantasy or Dragon Quest, it certainly is a step in the right direction 
 for Microsoft's RPG library. Help is on the way at least, especially with the likes of Mass Effect 
 coming soon, and both Lost Odyssey and Infinite Undiscovery in the 2008 pipeline. But hey, at least 
 us 360 owners have something as an RPG to enjoy for the time being, and we here at COE certainly 
 think that Eternal Sonata is it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheVinster
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 29, 2007 9:06 pm PT
Review:  Eternal Sonata's story revolves around Frederic Chopin (a renown pianist apparently) who is on 
 his deathbed. His last dream is that of Eternal Sonata, this world, everything that it encompasses. 
 Throughout the game you'll follow the story and begin to wonder, is it really a dream? Or something 
 more.
  
  As far as gameplay goes, you have your standard RPG running around, inspecting things, talking 
 to a variety of people, and then there's the battle system. It's partially turn-based in the sense 
 that you each take turns, but it is also in real-time because you can block, as well as you have 
 to think on your feet. Your characters have wide varities of ways to play them; you have your archer, 
 your melee man, your main healer, and so on. You'll learn to use their skills to your advantage, 
 as well as the tactical time you're given to dish out attacks, heal, or use a special attack which 
 may lead to a harmonic chain (repeated special attacks) . Your attacks change, as well as your enemies, 
 whether you're in light or dark, which is a nice mechanic, but nothing ground-breaking. I think 
 the real innovative feature here is how great the battling mechanic is, and how you can run past 
 enemies when you just get tired of fighting and want to enter a new area, which leads me to...
 
  
  The art style. It's a great art style that gives you a sense of it's Japanese roots as well as 
 looking unique. Everything is crisp, colorful, and actually entertaining to look at. The characters 
 all look distinctively different, but can be sorted into the sassy class, the child class, and 
 so on, but that could of been expected to some extent. The environments also look amazing, at one 
 point you'll go up a stairway built into a mountain that has rivers flowing down either side of 
 the steps and you'll marvel at it. The enemies also look unique, but later in the game, they tend 
 to repeat but with different textures or colors. Even the second-to-last boss is used twice, but 
 with a different scheme.
  
  The sounds are great, the American voice actors aren't annoying, and they don't get on your nerves 
 so there isn't much else to say. The cinematics are nice to listen to, the dialogue isn't as bad 
 as most RPGs but is still partially corny. Yet, Eternal Sonata has a sense of maturity in it's 
 dialogue that isn't to be ignored.
  
  A single playthrough could get you roughly 21-25 hours, and then if you want all of the achievements 
 you'll play through a second time which ramps up the difficulty partially but is required to get 
 the rest of the score pieces and EZI items.
  
  That's about it, if you have an extra $60 then you could buy it, but as of this review, the November 
 rush is coming so you would best save your cash. I highly recommend Eternal Sonata as a rental, 
 or even a borrow from a friend, and get a nice guide for all the achievements and items, and just 
 enjoy this great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: uttersilence89
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 27, 2007 10:41 pm PT
Review:  Eternal Sonata did what most games today avoid. They brought heart and art together as one. What 
 Final Fantasy used to do. Through the story of the final dream of Frederic Chopin, the famous composer, 
 it all melds together pretty seamlessly. Beautiful art design, graphic style, characters, music, 
 gameplay, etc. It's an extremely solid game. Very playable. Lying on his deathbed in a deep sleep, 
 Chopin travels through a dream world so vivid that he begins to wonder whether or not this dream 
 is reality. he meets a variety of lively characters and the emotion really grows through the friendships 
 formed. I can probably say it's the most visually beautiful game I've ever played. Even more so 
 than say, FFX. The colors are just so rich. I could have used a bit more variety in the environments, 
 though. The gameplay is solid. Simplistic, but still involving and ever-changing. The music is 
 also very emotional and full of wonder and fantasy. From the ancient compositions from Frederic 
 Chopin, to the original score. What I felt was lacking in this game was substance, particularly 
 in the story. I'm still debating with myself on the climax. The story had a great premise, but 
 it was never fully realized. It seemed like it ended in the middle of the story. Like half-way 
 through a great, epic RPG. Though I'm trying to tell myself that this just wasn't supposed to be 
 an epic RPG. it wasn't, but the thing is, it seemed like it should have been. All and all it's 
 great game in every area and I strongly suggest it. It's definitely the best RPG on the 360 at 
 the moment. I just wish it was a bit more satisfying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fmobliv06
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 24, 2007 4:33 pm PT
Review:  Eternal Sonata is highly reccomended to JRPG fans and newcomers alike. A wonderful art style and 
 accesible controls make for an engrossing experience, whether you or a younger sibling are playing. 
 Eternal Sonata is the story of a young girl named Polka (all characters and major cities are musical 
 references) who can use magic, but because of this is doomed to die young. She sells floral powder 
 to support her small village, but lately the empire has been selling its mineral powder, a miracle 
 cure-all, for much cheaper and nobody is buying the floral powder anymore. Polka decides to travel 
 to see the Prince and ask him to help her by lowering taxes on floral powder. Of course, things 
 get much more complicated from there, and soon Polka and her companions Frederick, Beat, and Retto 
 are embroiled in a plot to take on the empire. It may not sound like a great story on paper, but 
 in practice it really is thanks to a few hooks. The first hook is that this world is supposedly 
 not a real world at all - the entire game is said to take place in the dream of famous composer 
 Frederick Chopin as he lies on his deathbed. Brief history lessons and flashes of what is occuring 
 in the real world anchor this plot device, but the little history lessons scattered throughout 
 the game only serve to draw players out of the wonderful fantasy world that is Eternal Sonata. 
 Luckily, there aren't too many of them. The second hook is the characters themselves. I take pride 
 in my characters when they level up, as they are enduring and often funny. Beat has a passion for 
 stating the obvious, but this is just so that younger players can get into the game. It might be 
 annoying sometimes, but if it helps even more people experience the game, I'll put up with Beat's 
 occasionally lame dialouge. Battles play out in a combination of real time and turn based. Players 
 and enemies take turns (based on speed) moving around the battlefield, healing, using items, and 
 attacking. In their turn, players can move wherever they want and attack whoever they want until 
 their turn's time limit runs out, at which point the next person in line starts. It starts out 
 simple, but gets more and more complicated as the game goes on, so players always face just the 
 right amount of challenge. Finally, player's and enemy's abilities change depending on whether 
 they are standing in light or shadow. Sometimes, an enemy who is weak in the light will transform 
 into a powerful creature when bathed in shadow, or vice versa. This really deepens the combat.
 
  While the story and battles are fun, the real treats here are the music and graphics. The graphics 
 are cel shaded, and don't dismiss them as cartooney. These are some of the most impressive graphics 
 on the 360 to date. Environments are stunningly beautiful for a video game (I often find myself 
 sitting back for a minute just to appreciate the environments) , and the character models make excellent 
 use of shadowing. It is literally possible to distinguish individual threads in clothing if you 
 see a large/high quality enough screenshot. Battle effects are nice, especially later in the game. 
 The music matches the graphics stride for stride. Beautiful, haunting music plays as you wander 
 around the mostly linear environments. The battle music gets a nice rhythm going, too, although 
 overworld music is better. Simply put, if there is a soundtrack of this game somewhere, I want 
 it.
  All in all, the artistic effect here (yes, artistic) is in many cases the opposite of Bioshock's 
 grim utopia, but it can have almost equal impact. I can not reccomend Eternal Sonata enough. It's 
 not just the best 360 RPG, but it's one of the best 360 games in general. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Seleca
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 24, 2007 1:23 pm PT
Review:  A hard one to put your finger on tbh. A lovely graphic masterpiece though with a complex story 
 to boot. The characters are all wonderful and charming. saying this though, the characters could 
 have had a better connection with each other. some moments left you feeling like you didnt care 
 how they felt at that time. You cant dispute the gameplay though which was a breath of fresh air 
 and was reminscent to the masterpiece: 'Tales of Symphonia'. The items and all the weapons made 
 it a good solid RPG. However, the boss battles were a bit basic. One major boss was beaten without 
 a second thought, one of the final bosses was no-one important. even the normal battle encounter 
 monsters were basic, and the same monster template was used over and over. About 13 MAX were used, 
 just with different colours to signify theyre stronger/different. Little things like this made 
 it seem lazy, especially the ending which needed tying up. Overall, a must have for all RPG fans 
 who own a 360. Best RPG on it yet. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VitaExodus
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 24, 2007 6:48 am PT
Review:  Eternal sonata has by far one of the strangest premises to begin with: Chopin's on his deathbed, 
 and while he drifts between life and death, he starts to be immersed into a strangely realistic 
 yet surrealistic world with names, places, and shapes surrounding one of his passions: Music. The 
 story starts out with a blonde 14-year old girl pulling a god of war, jumping off a cliff with 
 no particular understanding why. As the story goes on, it begins to slowly unfold with a mish-mash 
 of interesting characters, although somewhat typical of most RPGs.
  
  The gameplay uses a system reminiscent of Tales of Phantasia, but far easier and more interesting. 
 You essentially take turns from character to character (you start out with just polka and her amazing 
 umbrella) either jamming the attack button, using a special move, defending, or using an item. 
 All of these are dependent on an action gauge, which depletes differently depending on how much 
 experience your party has. At first you'll have as much time to plot as you like how to attack 
 certain enemies, but by the end You'll have no TT (Tactical time) other than running to the enemy 
 and bashing him in. Bosses can sometimes provide a little more interesting tactic to fighting, 
 particularly the dragon-like enemy once you get past the graveyard area, you'll have to essentially 
 play it like Onyxia from world of warcraft - One person tanks him, one rogues (or hunters) him from 
 behind so his damage hits only one person at a time, and the other either goes full heal, or paladin 
 style (polka or chopin) . But when it all comes down to it, here's how you beat most characters: 
 A A A A A A A A A A A A Y I win.
  
  The graphics, although a wee bit closer to PS2, are very vibrant at carries the strange nostalgia 
 from going through the lavish and memorable lands in chrono cross. Although admitedly when you're 
 just in 3rd person mode in some of the enemy territory, it can look a little bit ancient.
  
  The sound, well.... put english subtitles with japanese audio and you'll save yourself some 
 pain (or perhaps laughing...) , as that goes with most JRPGs that aren't developed by squaresoft. 
 The part of the game that can really irritate you is the end. It's far, far too long, and any hope 
 for logic in the somewhat confusing part of the last chapter is quelled by long cutscenes that 
 essentially bore you rather than make you wonder.
  
  This game can take about 15-20 hours, took me about 17 without doing much with the side quests, 
 not much of that either. I reccomend it if you're preferring less of a first person RPG like elder 
 scrolls and more of a traditional gameplay... sort of. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Demon2Dante
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 22, 2007 8:24 pm PT
Review:  It is a beautiful world of fantasy and a story full of love and joy. The storyline was done perfectly 
 in harmony of the characters. It's hard to believe that they made a game so adventurous and dangerous 
 when theres a soft and elegant punchline. This game has the perfect snuggly graphics to make you 
 feel warm inside. You'll love the monsters in this game as they change form at times to give you 
 a challenge. There's many characters in this game as well as many things you can do. The music 
 is set perfectly and the game play is unique. Such as Kingdom Hearts or Monster Hunter. Like an 
 Action RPG. Anybody who wants a good story or a good RPG i advise you to get this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Giff1988
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 21, 2007 12:04 pm PT
Review:  Wow. Its hard to believe what the last hour of a 30 hour game can change your perceptions on the 
 quality of the product your playing. Eternal Sonata was easily one of my favorite RPGs on hour 
 29. but the ending was so horrible, leaving me confused and dissatisfied. Never have I been so 
 disappointed at the ending of a video game or any form of media.
  
  Pros:
  + Great Graphics: The Visuals will leave your jaw on the ground. Every time you go to a new environment 
 you will just have a sense of awe, this is the most beautiful game on the 360. Character designs 
 are no slouch either with very expressive eyes and all looking unique with out looking out of place 
 in the world they inhabit.
  + Sound is another feature that the game nails in spades. All the voice acting is well done, all 
 of the bizarre creates that inhabit the earth dont just look unique but sound it also. The real 
 stand out is the music, every them from every different local is truly mesmerizing. Your find yourself 
 stopping just to listen to the music at points.
  + Pacing was spot on for this game. Most rpgs trap themselves with too much grinding. Your constantly 
 fighting enemies just for the sake of leveling up having very little to do. Eternal Sonata dose 
 not fall into that trap. True this comes at the price of the game being very linear and kind of 
 formulaic at the end of the day. You will first visit and explore a town, leave and fight some 
 monsters in a dungeon (all well design) , fight a boos at the end of the dungeon, then finally 
 a cut scene progressing the story. The game will continue in this pattern up to the very end. Some 
 may not like this approach but I think it keeps things moving very well and I never found my self 
 bored with the game.
  + The story expect for the ending and few issues was solid. The characters all are good and there 
 was just a undeniable charm at some points, particularly whenever Beat and Salsa share the screen.
 
  + Game play. Its hard to give this a complete thumbs up. The combat is a blend of Turned Based 
 and Real time combat. When its your turn you have free movement able to attack and use items, 
 when its your enemies turn you freeze. However your not defenseless by carefully timing blocks 
 and counters you can reduce damage and turn the tide on your enemy. Thankfully this is not as 
 easy as it sounds and right when you have it figured out a new enemy will show up and challenge 
 your reflexes. The game actually resembles more action then strategy as the game progresses.
  Cons:
  - All the main characters have voice actors. Then why do the developers insist on pulling 
 text up and not letting the actors read from the script? These moments are far and in between but 
 when they show up it really pulls you from the experience.
  - Game play although remains fun through out the game lacks the depth that veteran RPG players 
 expect from the genre.
  - Some parts of the story were kind of unfulfilling. The developers seem to put in moral messages 
 that are effecting us today and. There not done to well. Theres no problem telling a moral but 
 you cant be so blunt and bash the audience over the head with it. There is a nauseating love Triangle, 
 I play Final Fantasy so Im use to romance but man. There were times I wanted to puke. Finally, 
 to many monologues, it seems the developers were pressed for time and instead of fleshing some 
 characters slowly and gradually throughout the game they decide to give you two to three lengthy 
 monologues that sums up where the character is at in the Story.
  - Finally the ending.. It sucked plain and simple. Its not clear in what its trying to tell 
 and just leaves the audience scratching there head on what exactly is going on. After 30 hours 
 you want a strong emotionally charged ending. Eternal Sonata just turns out to be one big convoluted 
 mess.
  
  So overall, I recommend this game but the ending really drags it down.
  
  WTF Moments:
  What the hell was with the talking Snail and Caterpillar at the end of the game? 
 What did that have to do with anything that I have been playing for the last 30 hours? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: weskershouse
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 20, 2007 8:46 pm PT
Review:  Eternal Sonata is amazing!
  
  This game was just splendid! From start to finish there is never a dull moment. A deep fleshed 
 out story line with characters based on real life people combined with totally original characters 
 all blended up into a refreshing mix of RPG amassment. The story is about the Famous composer redrick 
 Chopin and his band of dream world heros as they strive to take down an evil king. It's incredibly 
 well done and no RPG goer should miss out on such a masterpiece.
  
  Visuals: 9
  High def anime beauty. Tons of detail can be seen on every single character model and lush environment 
 throughout the game. Crisp anime style characters, glowing forest, and so much more can be seen 
 here. It's truly a feast for the eyes.
  
  Gameplay: 10
  A totally new concept for the action adventure RPG style. Namco took eveything you love about action 
 RPGS and slapped it into a turn based strategy package. It works out very well. There are tons 
 of different moves to learn that change depending on if you are in light or dark areas. It's a 
 lot of fun!
  
  Music: 10
  With a game based on a composer.. You have to ask. How is the soundtrack? Well, it won't disappoint. 
 There is a wide variety of music to be heard ranging from Chopins work to new original music to 
 fit the anime style theme
  
  Overall: 9.5
  Eternal Sonata will not disappoint. There is so much to love and so much to do here that you will 
 never get tired of playing. I recommend every fantasy/rpg gamer pick this up ASAP! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dreamdust
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 20, 2007 1:02 pm PT
Review:  Eternal Sonata has an interesting premise. The plot develops under the disguise of the famous composer 
 Chopin's death. The game exist in his dream as he inches ever closer to nothingness. The educational 
 value really impressed me. Throughout the game you will come across slide shows that detail various 
 points of interest in regards to the real Chopin's life. These are interesting regardless of if 
 you are a music aficionado or not. The game, which exist within Chopin's dream, is made up of a 
 world that exist practically independent of Chopin's thoughts. In fact Chopin is a character in 
 his own dream. If this sounds confusing it is. Basically the developers appeared to have these 
 ideas or themes that they wanted to address in the game. One obvious theme that wasn't developed 
 fully or accurately was the theme of 'death'. Chopin is dieing and there are various inferences 
 to death but the game fails to make an adequate definition of what death means. It's as though 
 they were afraid to reveal death in its entirety (the ending is what I am referring to but I don't 
 want to spoil it) . The uncertainty of death is conveyed to an extent but where I think the game 
 fails to develop this theme is in the sense of what does occur in death. It fails to specify that 
 there is no answer to that question. Instead, it arbitrarily tries to provide a happy-ending which, 
 to be honest, disappointed me.
  
  To add to this problem was that the developer also took it upon itself to integrate various other 
 themes of politics, power, betrayal, and love. Each of which the game mentions to some extent but 
 fails to fully develop in either instance. Instead you get a plot that had a lot of potential but 
 loses its impact because it fails to focus on a specific theme. Instead, the game dilutes all of 
 its themes because it simply has too many of them.
  
  That said the plot is not all bad. It is a fairly entertaining game. Unfortunately the plot makes 
 too many flowery statements while failing to provide very adequate evidence of what it's saying 
 as fact. It's one of those situations where you yourself can think of examples of what the game 
 is trying to convey yet the game itself fails to do so. For example there is an instance where 
 the game talks about mineral powder having a profound effect on citizens. First thing that comes 
 to mind is cigarettes. Sometimes there's simply no need to develop made-up drugs in a game to get 
 a point across. Use a real drug and the impact of your statements will hold so much more truth 
 to them. Instead the game preaches through made-up circumstances and comes off a bit underdeveloped.
 
  
  Off the plot, the game mechanics are solid. Expect a turned-based version of the Tales of Symphonia 
 system. It's fun, but can be a bit repetitive due to the consistent use of a limited number of 
 spells and combat moves. The speed and presentation of the battles do a lot to overcome this deficiency. 
 Leveling up is very fast-paced as you will find your characters leveling up twice off of one boss 
 battle.
  
  The length is short for an RPG at 30 hours max. Side-quest are in short supply and the dungeons 
 tend to be beautiful but repetitive room-to-room. Towns are brief. The graphics however are amazingly 
 crisp and beautiful. The music is good, and the voice-acting is well done also. Ultimately this 
 is a game that constitutes a solid premise, but fails to develop into the gem that it potentially 
 could have been. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hells_rebelion
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 17, 2007 9:27 pm PT
Review:  Eternal Sonata although seeming like a Kid game has a very new concept in it's storyline. Chopin 
 being in a coma happens upon a very strange dream world (Or so he thinks) according to him he controls 
 it all. He comes to find out this world is as real as his own. Only being able to use magic when 
 you are about to die a little girl named Polka is faced with staying at home and waisting her little 
 time she has left or making a difference in the world and facing what she believes is wrong, she 
 decides to face what she believes in and make a difference.
  
  This game has decent graphics, yes the cartoon style gets old after a while and sometimes makes 
 you feel as if you are playing a 10 year olds version of Final Fantasy. It also brings new life 
 into what a good RPG can become with its great story to the very well planned out battle system. 
 This is a must buy (Because it's gonna take a while to beat) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fighter_of_Foo
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 17, 2007 12:57 am PT
Review:  Eternal Sonata is a game that you should definitely try if you like RPGs at all because it's tons 
 of fun with a great battle system. I do have a few complaints, however. First of all, the Score 
 Pieces are a fun addition, but they get very annoying when you get more of them and have to play 
 every single one in order to find the right one to play with a certain AI. This could've easily 
 been fixed by labeling or naming the individual Score Pieces, but instead you have to waste a half 
 hour figuring out which one to play. Another complaint is the dialogue and ending. In every cutscene 
 the characters go in circles and repeat themselves and each other several times before hitting 
 a conclusion. The ending itself is no exception. Throughout the half-hour of it, they don't actually 
 explain what the hell is going on or where they even are. This pissed me off thoroughly. They do 
 not tell you what they are doing, what they did, or why they did it. It simply makes no sense at 
 all. My last complaint is with the second playthrough and it's achievements. Well, that's the problem 
 there. Nearly all the achievements for the game can only be unlocked after you beat it the first 
 time and do them in the second playthrough. Now, that wouldn't be so bad if they hadn't made all 
 the monsters and bosses in the game noticeably more difficult with no extra rewards. All monsters 
 have 1.5X the health, defense and attack, but you get the same exp. and money you would get on 
 the first playthrough. But other than these flaws that dragged it down, its a solid game with hours 
 of entertainment. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LegionofClouds
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 14, 2007 7:58 am PT
Review:  I wanted this game the moment that I heard about it
  
  The character design was very original and the story line was also very original. This is probably 
 the first time I have seen a game that centers around Fredric Chopin and is an awesome RPG I also 
 desperately needed another RPG other than eNCHANT ARm which I beat already
  
  PROS:
  
  ENVIRONMENT DESIGN
  The levels and areas you get to explore and fight in are inspired and original 
 and have a very nice feel to them, not to mention beautifully rendered. And if you are like to 
 explore then whenever you enter houses you will notice the detail that went into every single house 
 to make them all unique.
  
  BATTLE DESIGN
  The free-run and timed turns remind me of the Grandia series. The specials and attacks look great. 
 The shadow and light elements of the fighting and how they affect you and the monsters mean that 
 you will have to do some experimenting to get the best results. Other than the timed turns and 
 shadow/light concepts, there is nothing radically new about Eternal Sonata's battle system but 
 it works and is still fun all around
  
  SOUND
  The soundtrack is great, comparable to other games with great sound tracks like the Ace Combat 
 series and Dark Cloud series
  There is also the inclusion of score pieces that form kind of a collecting meta game . You can 
 match score pieces with one another and get rankings for making good music. Finally, in between 
 chapters, they have a little history section with a more famous piece by Chopin playing in the 
 background
  I play the piano and I have played Chopin pieces and they are just as awesome in this game
  
 
  CONS:
  NO MAJOR PROBLEMS
  
  The only little problems are that the game is pretty much a pushover RPG when you compare it other 
 more hardcore RPGs but if you beat the game, you can choose to replay the game with your current 
 party level which will make the game slightly harder than it was the first time but still over 
 all a pretty easy game once you get the hang of it
  Money is a little too easy to make if you constantly us Beat's camera and sell the pictures
  
 No other problems that I can see
  
  BOTTOM LINE/MISC OPINIONS
  This is probably the coolest RPG with Chopin in it EVAR It was amusing whenever I find another 
 place or person and their name refers to something from music, and since all of the places and 
 people are named after things from music, was a pretty amusing game
  
  Fun game, lovable characters, cool environments, awesome soundtrack all together = 9/10 GREAT GAME 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: j-killa0000001
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 13, 2007 9:19 pm PT
Review:  The story just leaves u thinking and the character fredrick or other know as in real life choppin 
 is based on a real person just twited up in the story. In certain parts of the game it plays some 
 of fredricks music and tell his life story. one more thing if u do get it watch the whole ending 
 evan when its says fin keep it on there for a few min and there another part. read the game book 
 its tells some more stuff about the game. evan when u do beat the game there still more to do u 
 have to start all over again but u still have your party level. most of the special attacks look 
 great. and unlike other game like this the graphics are great. so go out and buy or rent it and play 
 as a man trapped inpetwin realety and a dream. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jackoshadows
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 13, 2007 12:53 pm PT
Review:  I'm going to keep this as brief as possibly can. The game a Japanese RPG a 'la Chrono Trigger, 
 meaning you see the monsters and can avoid them. The combat system which is probably the most fun 
 part of the game also makes the game very very easy. it took me 28 hours to complete and i never 
 had a party wipe. I would say gamespot was right as usual on there synopsis of the game.
  
  Its really not for everyone. if you don't like Japanese RPG's you will not like this game. if you 
 don't have any patience you won't like this game. if you wish to wonder about and do side-quests 
 till your hearts content you will not like this game.
  
  I would warn all who are thinking about this game just to download and play the demo from xbox-live. 
 That will give you a good taste of what the best part of the game. If you like it go rent it and 
 enjoy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: j_smith90210
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 15, 2007 3:01 pm PT
Review:  Having completed the base game for Eternal Sonata, I am about to embark on my second journey through 
 the game. But what of the first journey?
  
  Eternal Sonata takes place in the dreams of Chopin, the musical composer, as he lies on his deathbed. 
 In his dream, Chopin seeks out answers to questions on what exactly is reality. Along the way he 
 meets up with many characters who are also on their own journeys. Polka a girl from a village in 
 the forest who is able to use magic, and as such will not survive for much longer. Together they 
 travel where they meet Allegretto and Beat, petty thieves who steal for the less fortunate. They 
 will all meet many other companions along the way who offer their aid.
  
  From the beginning two aspects of Eternal Sonata are brought to the forefront of the game: the 
 visuals and the audio. The world of Eternal Sonata is a vibrant and colorful world thanks to the 
 cel-shading visual style used. It could be said that the colorful world reflects that of a dream 
 and for that reason seems more real than reality. The audio in Eternal Sonata matches that of its 
 visuals, offering a mix of original works as well as pieces from Chopin. The soundtrack is definitely 
 worth a listen, even for those who have not played the game.
  
  Story-wise the game covers many faucets of life including politics, drug use, land, and conquest 
 which mirrored that of Chopins real life in Europe in many cases. While the story of Eternal Sonata 
 is fairly strong, even going into the question of what is real? the back-story of many of the 
 characters is fairly weak. It would have been nice to explore more of the characters in detail 
 with some side quests or more dialogue.
  
  The battle system is one of Eternal Sonatas stronger points utilizing both a turn-based and action-based 
 system. Each character waits to get a turn in battle, but during their turn they are free to do 
 whatever they are capable of within the given time period. The fact that as the party levels up 
 the rules for the active battle system changes adds depth and strategy to battle mechanics.
  
  Overall, Eternal Sonata is a definite buy for RPG fans and worth adding to their collection. 
 While fairly linear, the story itself is easy to follow through and a little more back-story would 
 have added immensely to the overall package. The battle system is fun and stays fresh for the game 
 as it evolves with you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Telekenesis123
Rating: 6
Date: Oct 28, 2007 2:08 pm PT
Review:  The Good:
  
  Eternal Sonata has beautiful graphics I must say. The colors are extremely vibrant, detailed, and 
 everything looks full of life. There are also a lot of nice atmospheric effects like light shining 
 through different objects, things glowing, and a near perfect use of the bloom effect, not to much 
 and not to little. The character models are very nice and remind me of the style of the characters 
 in the FF Tactics world of Ivalice. They are extremely cute somewhat deformed characters dressed 
 in finely tailored old world outfits which I quite enjoyed, though the exceedingly cute style may 
 grate on some individuals over time but I personally enjoy it. There are many lovely views and 
 vistas throughout the game with wispy clouds and sun soaked skies, fields full of flowers, cozy 
 little towns, hamlets and other things that help you lend your imagination to the world.
  
  The music in Eternal Sonata is good, but I would not say great, it does its purpose but nothing 
 really stands out. It's not like you are going to be humming it to yourself when your not playing 
 the game like very memorable soundtracks do. Really the thing the music does best is in sentimental 
 moments during the story. The battle tunes are all pretty standard. There is a nice story they 
 tell you during parts of the game about Chopin's life which features stunning pictures of landscapes 
 and European architecture while featuring his music in the background which is a nice diversion. 
 The voice acting on the English side of things I must say is good but again, exceedingly cute and 
 may not be everyone's cup of tea. The Japanese voice acting is very standard. If you listen to 
 it you could swear you've heard these same voices 50 times before watching anime. They are not 
 bad but again nothing unique or special.
  
  There are a good amount of bosses in the game, though some are recycled a few times and don't pose 
 much of a challenge.
  
  The Bad:
  
  This is where Eternal Sonata fails, its gameplay. Eternal Sonata has an extremely linear style 
 of map structure and those beautiful graphics don't feel as good as they should be because you 
 know that you are never going to be able to explore them and you are usually limited to a very 
 predictable and boring path while progressing through the game. They throw in the odd treasure 
 box on the map just to your left and right, usually full of junk just for filler, because they 
 have to . You know, the RPG makers guidebook said so.
  
  Another really uninspired, and after you have done it enough times, downright cruel filler technique 
 the designers use are annoying backtracking through the maps and dungeons. You do this either to 
 (you guessed it) flip a switch or go very far back in the area to get a treasure chest that is 
 now available due to said switch. They got you running around like a monkey trying to get through 
 some dungeons and it becomes painfully obvious that this type of archaic gameplay is filler for 
 this RPG. As a gamer I don't want my time to be burned in wasting it running around because a designer 
 wanted to pad his/her game with 5 more game hours. As a gamer I want that time to be filled with 
 entertainment and something creative and innovative.
  
  Now on to the battle mechanics of this game, much lauded as unique . Well at first it is interesting 
 but when you get 6 hours into the game and you have still only fought 6 different enemies and two 
 of them just a palette swap it gets very boring. The battles themselves though in active time and 
 on an open and 3D field, they just don't seem as variable as they should be. The game promoters 
 tried to lead you to believe that this makes them really dynamic, but this is not the case. The 
 enemies are just plain dumb and often waste the active time they have doing nonsensical things 
 instead of efficiently attacking you therefore leaving them wide open to a fierce beat down by 
 you and your teammates. Though you can technically do whatever you want in the battle you will 
 in reality be doing the same approach over and over again since the enemies always react in a predictable 
 manner, appear in the same spots, and have limited attack variability. Because of this you will 
 soon find the most efficient method of taking them down in the least amount of time possible thus 
 rinsing and repeating that tactic over and over again. So it really becomes irrelevant that you 
 can use the whole battlefield because there really is no need or incentive to do things a different 
 way than the same way over and over again unless your goal is to just spend more time in the battle.
 
  
  This game is very easy which just exacerbates the problem and lends to the theory that this game 
 might have been made for smaller kids. This game actually plays surprisingly similar to your traditional 
 turn based RPG that came out 15 years ago since you really are doing the same button combos over 
 and over. Its a shame the battles don't require more strategy since the ability to use different 
 attacks whether you are in the light or dark is unique and could have been utilized more if there 
 was more difficulty involved.
  
  The designers got seriously lazy when it came to designing enemies in this game since there is 
 a real shortage and variety of them. Usually you will be only fighting two or three different enemies 
 during stages of the game between bosses and combine that with low challenge combat, backtracking, 
 palette swapping, and boring map design (not graphics) you got yourself a rather dry RPG experience.
 
  
  To make the game even direr is the weapon system in this game. All the weapons you get are all 
 the same except in stats and have no real effect on how the game is played. Some of them have status 
 effects on them but their effect on the battle is very minimal. None of them change much unlike 
 what you would expect from most RPG's and they don't change your on-screen representative while 
 your playing as well. I'm sure this was done because there was no point in doing so since the lazy 
 designers at some earlier stage already decided that they were going to make weapons change in 
 stats only. Changing the in-game graphics would create things such as changes in a weapons length 
 which would then lead to a nasty thing like (lord forbid) them having to make the gameplay variable. 
 No, lets just keep it totally generic through the whole game, Yeah, easy Fred . It seems like the 
 only people who were actually working on this product were the graphics and character designers 
 who did a wonderful job with their inspired work, its just to bad they got teamed up with these 
 guys.
  
  Another aspect of this game that just screams lazy design is the broken monetary system within 
 the game. Money very soon becomes irrelevant thereby just adding to the lack of satisfaction and 
 incentive you get from combat. This is a result of an ability one of your teammates has. During 
 battle he has the ability to take pictures of monsters and you can then sell them at your local 
 shop. But the problem is that you can sell these photos for ridiculous amounts of money sometimes 
 netting you 70000 GP and you can take unlimited amounts of these photos. Why is 70000 GP much you 
 ask? Well when your upgrades at the shop cost you around 300 GP per item and your healing items 
 under a hundred to a couple hundred you see what I'm getting at. You can quickly max out your inventory 
 with healing items further making the games already dry combat even more easy and irrelevant.
 
  
  So as a final note I really cannot say I would recommend this game to fellow connoisseurs out there 
 since it ads nothing to the genre but some pretty graphics. But I could recommend this game to 
 your young ones since the story is light and the challenge quite easy and I'm sure they would enjoy 
 themselves. I'm not saying anyone else will not enjoy this game but its is very dry, thats all 
 I can say about it. Its only saving grace is its graphics but after you play it long enough you 
 will probably wish they were transplanted onto another game instead.
  
  Graphics: 8.5/10
  Sound: 7.5/10
  Gameplay: 4.5/10
  My Tilt: 5/10
  
  Replay Value: Low, due to very low extra 
 content, side-quests and interesting secret items.
  
  Final Score: 6/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tomamagic
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 11, 2007 11:19 am PT
Review:  Having no RPG to play during the month of Sept, I was deciding between Blue Dragon and Eternal 
 Sonata. I wanted to move away from the traditional turn based RPG, so I decided to give Eternal 
 Sonata a try b/c I heard it was real time action based. I'm not a college music major, but I do 
 appreciate good piana pieces. So the little history lessons on Chopin was an interesting concept. 
 Visually, the game looks very pretty, has lots of vibrant colors. The storyline tends to repeat 
 itself A LOT, from flashbacks to recycling of old bosses. To me, that was a bore, I would not play 
 this game a 2nd time through, even for achievments. I rented this game and finished it in about 
 20 hrs and my total achievments was 100pts?!? Yes, the storyline was extremely linear and there 
 are barely any side quests at all. This game is innovative in that almost all the terms that they 
 use are from a musical context. Aside from that, the overall experience was merely ok, but I would 
 much rather play an adult themed RPG. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sealightbreeze
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 11, 2007 7:48 am PT
Review:  I know that I have been EXTREMELY excited about Eternal Sonata for a long time. The battle system 
 is pretty fun and I love the concept of the game. Add to that a game world that is one of the most 
 gorgeous I've ever seen and I'm in love. I haven't been as excited for a game based solely on its 
 artistic style since Okami.
  
  Some of the scenes and the backgrounds are stunning. I found myself at some point just staring 
 at the scenery that is in the game itself. The game is a lot of fun. The music is some of the best 
 that I have heard in a very long time.
  
  the characters are all unique, and each has their own special qualities that they add to the game, 
 and make things either very interesting, or fun. The battle system is a lot of fun. I especially 
 like all the attacks that the characters use. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joshtheboss
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 8, 2007 2:04 pm PT
Review:  Eternal Sonata is a wonderfully magnificent game full of intrigue, splendor, and tons of classical 
 music. While other RPGs on the Xbox 360 have failed to illuminate their stories, characters, or 
 battle systems, tri-Crescendo have perfected a masterpiece that exemplifies the best that the Xbox 
 360 has to offer. There are a few small quirks, but the overall experience will leave a much deserved 
 lasting expression on you.
  
  As the story begins, we find Polish composer Frederick Chopin suffering from tuberculosis on his 
 death bed. While his physical sense is being deteriorated, Chopins mind wanders into a fantasy 
 world where he will meet many characters (all of which have names relating to musical entendres) 
 and help to ultimately save the world. Quite a task to perform whilst on the verge of death, to 
 say the least. The story itself is grand to behold, although there are moments when things start 
 to get too political at times. The story starts shelving its own theories and insights into topics 
 about government corruption, prejudice, and social minorities. Its a unique concept, and one that 
 will keep fans of politics interested for quite some time, but when the main characters are only 
 involved in polka music and listening to accented notes, the themes can tend to be a bit much in 
 the long run.
  
  While the story is a hit or miss depending on your views and likenesses, the combat is sure to 
 draw anyone in due to its incredible strategic formations and the ability to use your reflexes 
 to your advantage. The combat system in Eternal Sonata is like a mix of both real-time strategy 
 and turn-based combat. What makes things interesting is how long it takes you to begin fighting, 
 and depending on how quickly you start things up, the enemy encounters can turn into easy wins 
 or frantic struggles to stay alive. At the beginning of every battle a countdown starts, in which 
 you can survey the battlefield and choose to attack or move to a better position.
  
  After you decide the best spot for commencing battle, it is then up to you to plan your choice 
 of attack. A sidebar located at the top shows the order in which characters will attack, and allocating 
 your skills, magic, and special abilities can be utilized to your full advantage. Every character 
 has only a certain amount of time to lock in their skill before the timer counts down, and if that 
 happens then you will be forced to use the most basic and highly ineffective attack. There should 
 never be any moments when the clock would be a temperamental problem until later in the game when 
 you reach higher levels and the enemies are tougher.
  
  Part of the fun of the battle system derives from the fact you are not super imposed into a certain 
 spot when battling enemies. When it is your characters turns, you can move anywhere on the battlefield 
 you choose, attacking the enemy from the side, behind, or even above. Certain enemies have weaknesses 
 to vantage points and flanking positions, so learning those to your advantage is always a good 
 key to master. Winning battles is essential to victory since you will gain more levels and experience 
 points to upgrade your characters. However, the higher levels you obtain, the harder battles will 
 ultimately come, with the timer going faster and shorter, magic using more energy, and movement 
 restricted. It makes the game more fun to manage in the later parts, but the steep difficulty may 
 be too much for some to muster.
  
  Besides taking advantage of your position in battle, noting where the shadows lie is also a key 
 component. The shadows play a key role in the game, as characters, as well as enemies can perform 
 different skills and even take up completely (and sometimes more powerful) forms. Certain special 
 attacks are only perfumed if you are standing outside of shadows, or in the light, while others 
 are the other way around. There are also times when enemies may block all the shadow from the battlefield, 
 utilizing it to their advantage in both appearance and skills. They will become ferocious beasts 
 who will constantly overpower you and neglect you from using shadow spells against them.
  
  Making sure to note these locations as well as the positions of your characters and enemies always 
 makes battles fun to engage in and never becomes repetitive and mindless chore.
  While the combat is intuitive and engaging, the visuals are a beauty to behold and some of the 
 best the Xbox 36 has to offer. Every world is stunningly detailed, and the fantasy-themed worlds 
 have a sort of vibrant and melodic feeling to them. The looks arent realistic in the nearest sense, 
 but the artistic designs are a glory to witness. There are minor occurrences of repetitive enemies 
 and some wonky combat animations, but the good definitely outweigh the bad in visual design.
  
  Of course, what would a game based on legendary composer Chopin be without music? Eternal Sonata 
 has plenty of that, most of which are remixed and enhanced versions of classic Chopin pieces. The 
 music fits nicely to the overall scope of the game, with soft flowing piano harmonies and ensembles 
 mixed with fast-paced orchestral symphonies. The music never falters in any part of the game, but 
 the voice acting is worth mentioning for how unbalanced it feels at times. The main characters 
 all have stellar voice acting and sounds, but the lesser characters all feel whiny and annoying. 
 There are also times when some cutscenes have little or no music at all, making reading lines of 
 text very boring.
  
  Eternal Sonata is a wonderful ensemble of fascinating characters and a remarkable story about the 
 life (and death) of Frederic Chopin. The game itself isnt relatively long (should take no longer 
 than 30 hours) , but the grand music and superb battle system will keep you drawn into the beautiful 
 mind of Chopin for quite some time. Eternal Sonata is a wonderful piece of art and an experience 
 that many will soon come to enjoy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jake_Jenova
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 7, 2007 3:05 pm PT
Review:  Role Playing Games, also known has RPG's have been lacking on the Microsoft Xbox 360 untill now. 
 Lately we've been stuck with only Oblivion and the recently released of Blue Dragon for the top 
 runners on the RPG Market for the 360, now Eternal Sonata will take that place! This game will 
 break new limits for the system and bring forth more games of this genre instead of the over-populated 
 First Person Shooters we've been getting lately.
  
  Eternal Sonata takes us back in the 1800's with Fredric Chopin, a revered pianist from the romance 
 era. The game explaines to us how Chopins life was. why he created the songs he did, and also the 
 final hours on his death bed. This game is a deffinite buy for all fans of Role Playing Games or 
 just Chopin in general. The game is also a Real Time instead of the traditional Turn Based rpgs 
 like Final Fantasy and so on.
  
  STORY 10/10
  The story is basicly about several differnt people fighting for the same cause. Some are fighting 
 to make a differnce before they pass away while others are fighting to save their very own home. 
 The story is just really amazing and original that you'll just want to play the game to see what 
 will happen next! So that's why I gave it a 10/10!
  
  GAMEPLAY 10/10
  Fighting is never boring, though it can be a tad bit repetitive, but it's better than all the 1st 
 Person Shooter titles we've been getting on the 360! Awsome fighting engine where it takes both 
 from Turn Based and Action! Also another neat thing is that you can block attacks while not in 
 turn yourself. Also as the story advances, the differnt party levels you gain, six being the highest, 
 adds differnt aspects to the fights which is always awsome! So that is why I gave it a 10/10!
 
  
  GRAPHICS 9/9
  The characters are all cell-shaded which is pretty, the worlds are beutiful, though there are some 
 what sketchy animations but their very hard to tell really but who cares aout them anyways! The 
 game itself looks as if it were drawn by the worlds greatest and also most creative artists out 
 there from the perfect blend of colors. A fantatstic change from the recent games coming out for 
 the system. That is why I gave the Graphics a 9/9
  
  SOUNDS 10/10
  The sounds is one of the more beautiful and memorable parts of the game; the great music by Chopin 
 performed by Stanislav! The great gameplay, fighting, and the music makes one beautiful adventure 
 into the world of Enternal Sonata!
  
  AVERAGE 9/10
  This a must have game for any rpg gamer or even a fan of Chopins music, I love basicly everything 
 about the game and I'm still hooked to the game. The originality, the beautiful music of Chopin, 
 the breath taking graphics, and also one of the best rpgs on the 360 has of right now. So go out 
 and buy it already! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: concordca
Rating: 6
Date: Oct 6, 2007 7:44 pm PT
Review:  As is the case with most Japanese RPG's they suck you in for about the first 3-5 hours and then 
 frustrate you to no end with constant repetitive encounters. Up until that confusing fortress, 
 I was actually into this one. Then I read what I had to do (typical... go SW down a ladder press 
 switch, go back etc etc) and I tried to follow the difficult directions (can you believe this game 
 does not have an in map system) that's right your walking around blind. Too bad cause the game 
 has style and the music is great too. For me those types of rpg's (Blue Dragon included) do not 
 give me anymore pleasure like in the days of SNES,
  the gaming market has changed and RPG's of old are dead, games like Oblivion, Halo are in.
  
 
  In the end like Blue D, I lost my patience and put on Halo3 again, the way a game is supposed 
 to be played and enjoyed! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rerty
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 5, 2007 9:25 pm PT
Review:  Eternal Sonata delivers in almost every aspect of the game except combat. The story is immersive 
 if not underwhelming compared to big title RPG's like Final Fantasy. The world feels small and 
 that is not necessarily a bad thing. The exploring/combat part of the game really takes a back 
 seat to the story. Well atleast the scenery is nice to look at. I had not one problem beating the 
 game on the first playthrough due to the simplistic gameplay. You have a timer and have X amount 
 of time to kill your adversaries as each character takes a turn. It is pretty much run up bash 
 the a button till the last second then hit your Y to activate your special. Sure your party level 
 will increase and you can start to counter attack and chain together special moves as the level 
 increases but it is never and I mean never difficult unless you make it difficult for yourself. 
 The Chopin backstory gets kind of annoying ( I watched the first two historical powerpoints and 
 then started skipping them due to a lack of interest ) if you aren't a fan of music history. This 
 game delivers exactly what it said it would an enchanting world with a good story (kind of corny, 
 but in a good way) and A combat system that will at least keep you interested in moving on.
  
  P. S. I found that when ever I got a new weapon I didn't care because the graphic for the weapons 
 never changes which honestly shouldn't bother you that much, but it will because there really isn't 
 much to look forward to combat wise. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: oliverzwiebel12
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 5, 2007 7:17 am PT
Review:  Amazing game! The graphics of the game are very beutifull, the sad thing is, its kind of short, 
 but the plot, amazing!!! First off I tought the game would be just normal and fun to play with, 
 but, it really is fantastic! The fights can be very hard, wich makes the game even more exiting, 
 and the battle system for me kept being fun! But, its kind of hard to keep al the characters at 
 a high level, in alot of other RPG's there are only like, 3 to 5 characters fun to play with, but 
 in this game, they ALL are fun to play with! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ruff_edgz
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 3, 2007 1:38 pm PT
Review:  Good: Graphics and character design | battle scenes can be enjoyable | Learn a bit of history while 
 you play | Enjoyable evil villians (huh?) | No random monster battles
  
  Bad: Voices are out of place with the characters | Linear story line | Childish quotes said by 
 the characters
  
  As the Xbox and Xbox 360 move on in history, their bitter failure in making a good RPG has succeeded 
 through the times. When I say and heard about Eternal Sonata coming to the 360 this fall, I couldn't 
 be more happy. Winner of the E3 Best RPG and Artistic Design 2007 award and good scores from both 
 IGN and Gamespot gaming community websites. This game was a gift the xbox gods. The story is based 
 off of Frederic Francois Chopin last hours of life and his dream world that he has dropped into 
 but there is a story behind that as well. We start off watching a girl named Polka who grew up 
 in this dream world with magic but people who use magic will soon die and are out casted by the 
 others in this world. She and Frederic meet up later in the story and he starts to question if 
 this is a dream or real world. We then take a look at another duo by the name of Allegretto and 
 Beat who are thieves and steal food for the other homeless children and themselves to live. They 
 decide to take a trip to Forte Castle to ask the king to lower the taxes so that they didn't have 
 to steal and live a comfortable life like the rest of the people. They soon meet up with Frederic 
 and Polka later in their story and it continues on from there. The story will have a grand total 
 of 10 characters to play as. Sadly, none of the characters can be customized or have a different 
 look/feel to them.
  
  Graphics: The visual display of the game is outstanding but childish. Even still, people can see 
 why it won an award for its artistic design at the E3 convention. Even though you can't run around 
 the whole map freely, you can still admire the detail of the close character and environment design 
 as well as the background and scenery design.
  
  Controls: Nothing to complicated when you are walking around before a battle. Left thumb stick 
 to move around, A button for speaking/action and the Y button to view the menu options for setting 
 up your items and character battle order. Once in battle, the opinions are showed to you but left 
 thumb stick to move around the battle field, A button to attack short/long range, Y for Special 
 Attack, Right Button to use an item, right thumb stick to move from item to item. Nothing to difficult 
 and the game tries to give you some time to get use to them at the beginning of the game with some 
 helpful tutorials and infinite time to plan your attack. Later in the game, you will have a time 
 limit to set yourself up with an attack before your attack time starts. Unlike other RPG's, this 
 style of combat is time based as the user and monster have x amount of time to attack before they 
 go to the next turn, once you move, use an item or special skill, the time will start (unless your 
 start time, if its being used, ends which will start your attack time automatically) .
  
  Gameplay: The story is linear and it seems you can't change move things around but staged like 
 a movie video game. I like the battle mode of the game the best where you fight monster with a 
 certain time limit. Each physical attack you place on the monster is the same but you have 2 type 
 of special attacks you can choose from, a light or dark attack. If a character is in a shadow or 
 under some clouds, the characters special will change but if under the light, will produce something 
 totally different. Also, monsters have different forms in different light conditions. A monster 
 could turn into a bigger monster under darkness which will increase his DEF but under light, will 
 be normal with its original DEF. This varies from monster to monster and not every one can change. 
 The story and characters might get on your nerves but shouldn't hurt your enjoyment to much of 
 one of the better RPG's for the 360.
  
  The game has the look of a child's game but really is intended for a older audience. I would still 
 advise anyone who likes RPG's to buy it or rent it once to see if they enjoy it. The linear story 
 or annoying characters shouldn't take away the enjoyable fighting and fun time with playing an 
 RPG. You might be like me and just enjoy a good story no matter how childish it may be. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: woundsthatbleed
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 2, 2007 7:14 pm PT
Review:  This game is so beautiful it makes you feel like you really entered Chopin's dream. Poor Chopin 
 on his death bed. At least he gets to have one last exciting dream.
  
  You get to play a wide range of characters, who have their own unique objective to accomplish in 
 the game that ties in with the story. Don't worry you get to play Chopin too!
  
  The battle system is a real-time/turn-based hybrid, which really works for this game. They also 
 use a light and dark concept that makes the battles alot more fun. Depending on if your in the 
 light or dark your characters will have different special abilities. This also goes for some of 
 the enemies so watch out and pay attention to the sunlight and shade. Once your character moves 
 you only have a short amount of time to exacute your attacks. However, before you move your character 
 you have an unlimited amount of time to plan out your strategy.
  
  The graphics are amazing and the environment is so beautiful. It leaves you wanting to explore 
 your environment more, but your very limited. The music is wonderful and also this game will teach 
 you alittle music appreciation. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kagomesango
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 7, 2007 10:30 pm PT
Review:  I've been waiting for this game to come out and finally it's here and it's great I love the graphics 
 it makes me feel as though I am watching an anime. The storyline is good I love the characters 
 and their uniques style of fighting. Now this is a game that I would play over it's hard to get 
 used to the blocking system but once you get past that you have a solid game. I just wish that 
 it was longer. This story was actually kind of touching to me because of the way people treated 
 Polka. I'd definitely recommend this game to all of the RPG game lovers out there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: funkyshark
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 1, 2007 6:52 pm PT
Review:  With the release of Eternal Sonata, the Xbox 360 finally has a Japanese style RPG worth owning. 
 Not only does the game have a wonderful soundtrack (something lacking in Blue Dragon) but, it also 
 has jaw dropping visuals and a unique story line. Conceptually speaking, Eternal Sonata provides 
 us with one of the most distinctive experiences that a game has to offer. While it may be a bit 
 linear at times the game taps into the emotional state of the player. Thus, it offers a truly rewarding 
 experience.
  
  The most creative aspect of Eternal Sonata is its storyline. The game begins with Chopin on his 
 death bed dreaming of a fantastical world. Eternal Sonata is essentially the story of the dream 
 that Chopin is having. The game has a corrupted monarch, a rebellion and a mysterious character 
 with a troubled past, all elements of your standard JRPG. So whats the big deal? The answer is 
 quite simple really, character development. At its core Eternal Sonata is about its characters. 
 It lets the player develop a relationship with them, to the point of actually caring about their 
 development. Each character grows and changes in a way that is both believable and interesting. 
 Eternal Sonatas graphics are quite dazzling. They are presented in a cel-shaded style with a vibrant 
 colour pallet. Each environment is detailed and well drawn. The cities themselves may be quite 
 small, but, they are lovely to look at. Between each city you will find many forests and fields. 
 There is one instance where you come to a field of beautiful yellow flowers. You cant help but 
 delight in the shear elegance of the way the environment is presented. The dungeons incorporate 
 a zoomed out camera. At first, you may find this upsetting but, you will soon realize that it is 
 necessary in order for you to navigate through them. The game presents some of the best visuals 
 available on the Xbox 360.
  
  The battle system can be best described as a Real-Time/Turn-Based Hybrid. This means that it incorporates 
 elements of both a turn based and an action RPG system. The A Button is used for primary attacks 
 while the Y button is used for special attacks. Special attacks change depending on the level 
 of light that your character is standing in. If you are standing in a shadow then you can use shadow 
 attacks. This adds to the strategic element of the game as you can choose to have some of your 
 characters fight from the light and others fight from the dark.
  
  As you advance through the game you gain experience with your party in the form of levels. Each 
 level allows you to do more things but, also limits the time you have to carry out an attack. An 
 example of this is during the first party level the timer doesnt begin to decrease while you are 
 standing still. In the second level, you are allowed to use more items and echoes (combos) but, 
 the timer begins to decrease immediately.
  
  For all its glory, there is one major flaw with the gameplay in Eternal Sonata. The game has a 
 fixed camera which makes it incredibly linear. This makes it difficult to feel as though you are 
 truly exploring these beautiful 3-D environments. You will also find on your initial play-through, 
 that you wont back track often. Some may find this to be a blessing, but, it also serves as a 
 reminder as to how limited the exploration can be. Eternal Sonata is scored by Motoi Sakuraba. 
 He also created scores for the Star Ocean and Valkyrie Profile games. Sakuraba manages to successfully 
 heighten the gameplay experience with his music and elicit emotions during tense battle sequences. 
 Stanislav Bunin was recruited to present the compositions by Chopin in the game. Each of these 
 pieces plays during game segments that deal with Chopins life and sound brilliant. Much care was 
 put into the sound design of Eternal Sonata and the end result is extraordinary.
  
  Eternal Sonata is a game that everyone should experience. Not only does the game look wonderful 
 but, the sound and battle system are exceptionally designed. While the linear gameplay may detract 
 from the overall experience, it doesnt do so to the point of frustration. If you are going to 
 buy one JRPG for the Xbox 360 make sure its this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: indigoAK200
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 1, 2007 12:19 pm PT
Review:  The Good
  
  The two most compelling aspects of Eternal Sonata are its art style and its source material. The 
 game draws its plot from one of the more commonly known facts about famed Polish pianist Frederic 
 Chopin - that he had very lucid dreams on his deathbed. The game's plot uses a little creative 
 license in this area; the entire world you explore takes place within one of Chopin's final dreams, 
 more specifically the one h has right before he dies. As such, the game's theme weighs heavily 
 in th area of personal identity and coming to grips with one's own death. One other main character, 
 a young woman named Polka is also terminally ill, with the side effect of her disease being that 
 she can use a form of magic known only to her. The art style is equally detailed. All of the characters 
 are drawn in a gorgeous cell shaded style and are all unique and often pleasantly strange way. 
 For instance, Polka has to long strands of hair that are always miraculously straight for about 
 three feet and then curly near the end. Sure, it sounds strange (it is) , but it works and it serves 
 to give her character a little bit more personality. All of the other characters all have this 
 weird traits to them, as well. Finally, Eternal Sonata battle system on a fundamental level is 
 a bit more involved than the battle systems in most Japanese role-playing games. It's pseudo real-time 
 - the characters are placed on a field of battle and are able to move around freely, but they're 
 given a set amount of time (usually around five seconds or so) . There's a dedicated attack button 
 and when you character attacks, the time limit is increased by a second or so with each successful 
 hit. Aside from these basics, the system gets interesting in the way that characters use the light 
 and dark areas of the battlefield to their advantage. The game feature two unique sets of attacks 
 for both these kinds of areas. Characters can only use Light attacks in areas that are brightly 
 lit and can only use Dark attacks in areas that are draped in shadow. The music in Eternal Sonata 
 is probably its most charming aspect. Many of the score pieces in the game are either Chopin's 
 original work or pieces derived from Chopin's original work. Even if you've never heard of Chopin 
 or heard any of his compositions, you'll find yourself drawn into them because they're simply amazing. 
 It's also fantastic that the pieces that the game's composer derived from Chopin's original work 
 never betray their source material.
  
  The Bad
  
  The problem with this battle system is not really in the battle system itself, but in the fact 
 that you pretty much fight the same battle over and over and over again. In Eternal Sonata, you 
 can see your enemies on the field map before actually doing battle with them - when you touch an 
 enemy on the field, you go into battle with it, but in each new area you come to, there only three 
 or so different battle combinations and only two of those combinations are played more commonly. 
 This lack of variety in the battle combinations quickly gets boring, even with the fast paced battle 
 style. As for the story; as mentioned it draws heavily on deep source material, but the story itself 
 is told in a rather dull way. The story in Eternal Sonata is essentially your basic people overthrow 
 the evil government story, but this time thee government is using a poison to turn the people into 
 its personal army to invade another country. Even this small twist has been seen before in other 
 games, so it doesn't really bring the story out of boredom. The English voice acting is terrible 
 to say the least - each of the voice actors seems to have taken th approach of voicing the characters 
 as though they're in a small child's television program, so many of the lines will sound as through 
 they're geared towards a five year-old. The Japanese voice acting isn't really any better and this 
 could perhaps be the first game where you might favor the localized acting over the original Japanese. 
 Exploring the field maps feels pretty basic, in addition to your character feeling a little floaty 
 . By this, I mean your character doesn't really feel like he's walking around in the world, as 
 much as he feels like he's just floating over it make a walking motion. The controls are also a 
 little loose, so you'll find yourself running in the invisible walls quite a bit trying to find 
 your way around. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IguanaBob
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 30, 2007 5:59 pm PT
Review:  There is a demo on xbox live that you can toy a bit with it. I played Blue Dragon and this Eternal 
 Sonata. And what a difference! My money is on Tri Crescento!!
  
  I am going to reserve some time in X mas to play this game. Humm, 100 words at lest huh... K
 
  
  I am writing my review, I will remember to keep the language clean. Why reviews must be 100 words 
 minimum. It is very dumb, because the more I write the less time I have to play the game. Gamespot 
 encourage me to try to get my review right the first time  I may or may not choose to edit it 
 later on, but by doing so, I will lose any positive feedback associated with the review. Gay spot 
 encourage me to write my review in a word processor or text editor, save it to my local disk, then 
 copy and paste it into the posting box. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: erik0234
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 29, 2007 8:17 am PT
Review:  Eternal Sonata is a one of a kind game, the first thing that attracted me to it was its Turn based-Real 
 time hybrid combat. It reminded me of Tales of Symphonia, but simpler. Sans different combos and 
 button sequences, timing and skill are what matter in this game. The further you progress, the 
 better you get at timing your attacks just right. I found the Light/Dark concept to be refreshing, 
 the battle never gets stale as it (and your enemy) change depending on your positioning.
  Obviously one of the main selling points of the game is its beautiful soundtrack. I normally mute 
 the television and play one of my cds while I play games, but Eternal Sonata's music is worth listening 
 to, and unlike almost all RPG's - It does not get old. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: amlabella
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 27, 2007 9:45 pm PT
Review:  The Xbox 360's extensive gaming library covers just about every genre. Its got games for action 
 afficionados, sports junkies, and a whole slew of arcade titles for the nostalgic gamer. But a 
 great Japanese RPG has been missing ever since the systems release back in 2005. With Eternal 
 Sonata, that void has been filled. Charming characters, a compelling story, unique premise, and 
 a satisfying combat system all make Eternal Sonata a triumphant success.
  
  The entire world of Eternal Sonata takes place in the mind of Polish composer Frederick Chopin. 
 Chopin is on his deathbed, but in his final minutes, he slips into a vivid dream. This is where 
 the story begins. Polka is a young girl living in the small village of Tenuto. To her misfortune, 
 she can use magic. All magic users have a terminal illness, and most people believe its contagious. 
 Due to this, Polka is shunned by people in the nearby city of Ritardando, but she soon makes a 
 friend in Frederick Chopin. Eventually the two meet up with a colorful cast of characters in an 
 attempt to stop Count Waltz, who is using a special powder to turn civilians into mindless soldiers.
 
  
  The story is fairly basic and lacks the epic grandeur of a Final Fantasy, but its more character 
 driven. Polka must face the fact that she is going to die soon, Chopin struggles to differentiate 
 his dreams from reality, and some characters reveal themselves as traitors. Eternal Sonata does 
 a good job of making us care about what happens to each of these characters. Another aspect of 
 the story is how it ties to real world issues; themes such as greed and false rumors creep their 
 way into the plot. It seems like the games trying to send a message, and sometimes it comes on 
 a bit strong, but its an interesting perspective for an RPG. All of this is great, but slide shows 
 about Frederick Chopin break up the pace of the game. Although these brief history lessons provide 
 an interesting insight into the life and music of the great composer, they take away from the experience. 
 One unique aspect of the game is the theme of music. It seems that Chopin had music on his mind 
 even in his dreams, because characters and towns are named after musical terms. Whether it be one 
 of the main characters, Polka, or the city of Baroque, music is involved in most things. It would 
 have been great if this idea was taken a step further and implemented into the gameplay somehow, 
 but the interesting premise alone fits in perfectly.
  
  The plot of an RPG is always a key factor, but Eternal Sonatas gameplay is the main attraction. 
 Following in the footsteps of games like Final Fantasy XII, random encounters are non-existent. 
 You see your enemies on the screen, allowing you to pick and choose your battles. You may want 
 to face every enemy though, considering how fun the battle system is. Eternal Sonata uses a real 
 time battle system, but it has enough depth to keep things fresh and interesting. Each of your 
 characters have a short amount of time for their turns, which is represented with an action bar 
 on the left side of the screen. During that time, you can move around freely, but with each step, 
 attack, or use of an item, the action bar decreases more and more. Every character has a special 
 attack, but what shakes things up a bit is that you have different attacks depending on if youre 
 standing in the light or darkness. This adds a strategic element to the game, because someones 
 light attack may be more useful in certain situations, and vice versa. Adding to the challenge 
 are party levels. As you slowly rise in party levels, the battle system changes a bit. The result 
 may be less time in your action bar or the option of having more items to use in battle. This helps 
 keep the game from getting repetitive.
  
  So the offensive side of the battle system gives you a lot to do, but dont just think you can 
 sit back and relax when its your enemys turn. With precise timing, you can block your enemys 
 attack, which reduces damage. Right before your enemy strikes you, a small icon will appear on 
 the screen. Pressing B at the right time results in a block, and counterattacks become available 
 later in the game. Theres a small window of opportunity, so you have to be quick. This keeps you 
 on your toes, and actually becomes a crucial part of the game. The difference in damage can be 
 quite substantial, so its in your best interest to use the blocking system.
  
  Tri-Crescendo used to be involved in sound development, but youd think visuals are their specialty 
 after playing Eternal Sonata. The developers do a wonderful job of creating a lush world full of 
 vivid colors and great detail. The game features a wide array of environments, from open ended 
 and expansive plains to unsettling temples with eerie lighting. The attention to detail really 
 stands out as well. In cutscenes, youll see the hair of your characters move with the wind. This 
 seems minor, but all of the little things add up to create quite the visuals experience. Eternal 
 Sonata is by no means a technical marvel, but its artistic vision more than makes up for that. 
 Equally impressive is the audio. During the cutscenes that explain Chopins life, we hear some 
 of his brilliant piano pieces. These compositions are the work of a genius, evoking many emotions 
 while keeping beautiful melodies. Eternal Sonata doesnt let Chopin steal the show though. The 
 game has a wonderful original score by Motoi Sakuraba. His work is consistent, with pieces matching 
 the intensity of battle and the charm of the game world. The end result is a nice balance between 
 the two. The same cant be said about the voice-overs. There are a few standouts in the game, but 
 not because of praise. Nevertheless, the cast does a generally good job, which really expands on 
 each characters personality. One very unfortunate thing about Eternal Sonata is its length. The 
 game can be finished in about 20 to 30 hours. There are musical pieces that you can collect and 
 perform with people, but it doesnt add much to the longevity. Some people may prefer the straightforwardness, 
 but additional side quests would have really added to the overall experience. Secret achievements 
 obtained only by playing the encore may entice some people to go back a second time through, but 
 other than that, there really isnt much.
  
  Fans of JRPGs wont be disappointed with Eternal Sonata. The game is short, but its a matter of 
 quality over quantity. By implementing a new take on the genre with the musical premise, the game 
 feels like a breath of fresh air. Its still got an engaging story and characters, but theres 
 also a gorgeous game world and action-packed battle system to keep you interested. Any Xbox 360 
 owners who are craving for a new RPG to play need look no further; Eternal Sonata is a must have. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: champloo1212
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 26, 2007 2:36 pm PT
Review:  Great and gorgeous game to pick up if your an rpg fan. Combat is easy to get the hang of but it 
 also keeps challenging you as your party level increases. The amount of characters and special 
 attacks they have are various and help keep gameplay fresh. My favorite character had to be Salsa; 
 she had a big punch wrapped in a small package and was great for dealing damage and powering up 
 the harmony chain. Levels and character design in this game are simply put gorgeous. I've played 
 on both regular and HD with this and with both your getting your money's worth graphically. Levels 
 are numerous and intricate with various monsters to fill them. In the levels as youfight light 
 and dark factor in how monsters will attack and how you will also. All in all Eternal Sonata is 
 a good game to have for us few rpg fans who have a 360. Although the story and character dialogue 
 can sometimes be a bit monotonous I think its worth a buy.
  
  Stop by at endlessnocturne. com for a great eternal Sonata community. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zelda187
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 26, 2007 1:24 pm PT
Review:  Simply put, Eternal Sonata is an RPG that shouldn't be missed by any gamer. It's a truly stunning 
 piece of animation with one of the most creative stories and excellent gameplay. The musical score 
 give it an added feel and adds to the games atmosphere and overall tone.
  
  This isn't your average modern-day RPG.
  
  It's emphasis on story and gameplay take me back 
 in time. It's a throwback game with some new elements added in. The battle system is fantastic 
 and innovative.
  
  If you thought Blue Dragon was a step in the right direction for next gen RPG's, then Eternal Sonata 
 is a gigantic leap.
  
  9.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cog77
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 26, 2007 12:59 pm PT
Review:  Despite the innovative story line and the brilliant way they tied it to Chopin's life (at least 
 for the first two chapters - which worked well for the whole dream sense, yet they seemingly stopped 
 after the second chapter) Eternal Sonata cannot seem to escape its shortcomings for me.
  
  Yes the game is beautiful. Yes the story is good. But I wished that music played more of a role 
 here except for the almost useless score pieces and the first two chapters (though I only played 
 through the first four chapters) . Specifically in the battle system. Yet it seems to really only 
 have a loose presence here that fails to make me really feel as if this was something special. 
 The battle system suffers from some kinks Specifically the item usage. And the fights them self 
 get the feeling of repetitiveness faster then the FF series. It seems there really is only a few 
 enemies for you to face and then bosses and that even on a new area its the same enemy with a different 
 name and the same attacks. The lack of random encounters works well - since it doesn't seem to 
 impede leveling up and the addition of photos lets you gain gold faster than the speed of light, 
 which makes inventory stocking a little to easy.
  
  All in all it's an okay game whose unique story idea seems to be carrying it a little farther than 
 it otherwise would have gotten. To me, it really was a typical JRPG with a few new ideas that didn't 
 seem to be fully thought through.
  
  Though again, maybe the chapters after four will make me change my mind. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BongMonkey
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 7, 2007 11:50 pm PT
Review:  Well this one is a surprise... I'm not one for RPG's but wanted something a little less Oblivion 
 and a little more Dragon Warrior. Well this isn't quite it, but it's a really good game in it's 
 own way.
  
  The music is just fantastic, the scenes are beautiful and the story is interesting. I even like 
 the little cut in bits about Chopin... I wasn't a fan, and I'm not particulary found of classical, 
 yet if you have an ear for good music across all genres you can't help but appreciate everything 
 done here in this game.
  
  Highly recommended. It is very linear, but I'm realizing that I don't mind at all. The story and 
 art are the key here. And the battle scheme is fun, repetitive over all the chapters, but it's 
 better than other RPG's for sure!
  
  If you don't buy this one now, it'll be a steal later in the cheap bins.
  
  Cheers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: urbankido
Rating: 0
Date: Sep 24, 2007 3:04 am PT
Review: C//DTD HTML 4.01//EN"        Eternal Sonata User Reviews 
 for Xbox 360 - GameSpot                                   function do_rbx_ctrk_netxp1 (aElem, iTrkId, 
 cTrkPrefix) { var imgElem =  if (! imgElem) { return true; } if 
 (! aElem. rbxCPrefixed) { aElem. rbxCPrefixed = true; var destUri =  
 var newUri = cTrkPrefix + destUri; aElem. href = newUri; } return true; } function do_rbx_itrk_netxp1 
 (parentId, iTrkId, iTrkUri) { if (! document. images) { return false; } var imgId = iTrkId; var imgElem 
 =  if (! imgElem) { var parentElem =  
 if (! parentElem) { return false; } var imgElem = document. createElement ('img') ; if (! imgElem) { 
 return false; } imgElem. id = imgId; imgElem. src = iTrkUri; imgElem. alt = ''; imgElem. width = '1'; 
 imgElem. height = '1';  } return true; }   ON   TechRepublic :  
 Stop overtyping: Disable the Insert key    //    
::::::

::::::
UserName: xXxNathanxXx
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 23, 2007 9:32 am PT
Review:  It was a good game to play and look at all the stunning visuals. But, the game it self lacked in 
 some areas while i think it flourished in others. An instance of this would have to be the combat 
 system. Probably the most interesting and newest way I've seen. A feature I think that lacked was 
 how in depth the game was. When you received a new weapon or piece of equipment and added it to 
 your character it didn't change their or appearance or what they were holding they just looked 
 the same.
  Some things that I personally liked was how easy it was to gain money. This made the game very 
 easy and made it very easy to upgrade. Considering you could make a lot of money for just a few 
 B rank shots. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spike_Foxx
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 22, 2007 2:55 pm PT
Review:  After a few so-so RPG attempts on the 360, Eternal Sonata is the feather in the XBox's cap for 
 Japanese-style role-playing. With lovable characters, a fantastic storyline, and utterly immersive 
 world, Eternal Sonata is a game you won't mind giving 60 hours of your life to.
  
  Being from Namco, the studio which has been producing the Tales series for two decades now, it's 
 little surprise that everything about this game has been painstakingly rendered, drawn, and animated. 
 The game's exposition is a nice, long one; introduces all the characters, shows off the evironments, 
 and starts to pull you in. Chopin, the legendary pianist, is on his death bed, and is dreaming 
 of a far-away place as he dies. Every now and then, he'll get checked back in on, but the majority 
 of it takes place in his dream world, which looks like an impressionist painting come to life. 
 Bright colors, blossoming flowers, clear skies, lush, verdant forests... that's just a sampling 
 of how the world of ES looks. The characters are just as well-done, their expressions conveyed 
 perfectly, not just through their face but their voice as well; voice-acting is top-notch, with 
 several recognizable actors from recent, main-stream anime, such as Wolf's Rain. Like most RPG, 
 there are still text-only spots, but the vast majority of the scenes are voiced.
  
  Like any RPG, there will be plenty of combat. ES has joined the trend of ditching random encounters 
 for on-screen icons of enemies, so players can pick and choose who to fight; though some enemies 
 may pursue you once they're aware of you. The fighting system is a combination of real-time and 
 turn-based. Each character goes one at a time to attack, and gets a set amount of time in which 
 to make their attacks, fastest to slowlest like most RPGs. ES has streamlined their battle quite 
 a bit; only the four face buttons and the analog stick are used for combat. There's the standard 
 attack button, item button, and magic button. Only 2 spells can be set at any one time, and this 
 one of the unique things to ES; each spell has a 'dark' or 'light' alignment. Not in the sense 
 of good or evil, but literally to shade or light. Depending on where the character is standing 
 on the field will determine which spell is cast. It can feel a little limiting to only having 2 
 spells on hand, especially when only a couple characters get healing spells, and it's a pain to 
 have to choose between offensive and healing for that one slot.
  
  The system can sometimes feel too over-simplified. There's very little to do as far as character 
 customization goes; all weapons are store bought, so is armor, accessories are limited, and there's 
 no item/weapon creation. A little bit of imagination for those sorts of things would have been 
 a nice touch.
  
  The game, overall, should clock in around 40-60 hours. The delightful characters and beautiful 
 world will make the time fly right by, and you will want to play it again and again.
  
  Summary
  ____________
  
  Good:
  -Engaging characters and world
  -No random encounters
 
  -Barttle system is interesting
  
  Bad:
  -Limited magic spell capacity
  -No customization/creation options 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mykel77
Rating: 0
Date: Sep 30, 2007 8:59 am PT
Review: C//DTD HTML 4.01//EN"        Eternal Sonata User Reviews 
 for Xbox 360 - GameSpot                                   function do_rbx_ctrk_netxp1 (aElem, iTrkId, 
 cTrkPrefix) { var imgElem =  if (! imgElem) { return true; } if 
 (! aElem. rbxCPrefixed) { aElem. rbxCPrefixed = true; var destUri =  
 var newUri = cTrkPrefix + destUri; aElem. href = newUri; } return true; } function do_rbx_itrk_netxp1 
 (parentId, iTrkId, iTrkUri) { if (! document. images) { return false; } var imgId = iTrkId; var imgElem 
 =  if (! imgElem) { var parentElem =  
 if (! parentElem) { return false; } var imgElem = document. createElement ('img') ; if (! imgElem) { 
 return false; } imgElem. id = imgId; imgElem. src = iTrkUri; imgElem. alt = ''; imgElem. width = '1'; 
 imgElem. height = '1';  } return true; }   ON   TechRepublic :  
 Stop overtyping: Disable the Insert key    //    
::::::

::::::
UserName: razoredge13
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 21, 2007 11:47 am PT
Review:  Eternal Sonata, in a sense, is one magnificent nightmare. The game takes place in a man's mind 
 - Frederic Chopin - and is, in my opinion, one of the best RPG's on the system.
  
  First, the best thing about this game; The world itself. From the moment you begin playing, you'll 
 be awe-struck by how GREAT the graphics look. The world is vibrant. Wind blows, grass sways, shadows 
 bounce around. The color itself is bright and beautiful. It may not be realistic graphics like 
 Oblivion, but that's not bad at all. It has a sense of cell-shading to it, along with the characters. 
 It's some of the best cell shading i've seen to date.
  
  Some of the outfits for the characters may seem silly, but it all fits in with the setting of the 
 story. Speaking of the setting, Mr. Chopin's music can be heard through the game and it is indeed 
 wonderful. The music is almost inspiring. Environment sound is great as well; Birds will chirp 
 away among many other things which really get you immersed in the world. Voice acting can use some 
 work, but that's normal with the JRPG's --&gt; English market transition.
  
  Now, the combat system. Japanese RPG's, like Eternal Sonata, are infamous for sometimes dull, boring 
 turn based combat. This isn't so with Eternal Sonata. The combat system is kind of a mix between 
 turn based and real time. Each player and enemy get their own turn, yes, but you have a set amount 
 of time that you may actually move around the battle field and attack in real time by either using 
 spells or just normal attacks. It reminds me of the old Secret of Mana combat system.
  
  The creators also added a fun aspect to the battle field. If you move characters into the dark 
 (shadow) portions, they have a completely different set of spells that they can use. While someone 
 may be a healer in the light, move them into the dark and they become a decent damager dealer. 
 If you time a button press correctly, you can even block / evade incoming swings.
  
  One downside to the combat, however, is that there is little enemy variety. Yes, there's quite 
 a number of monsters, but you'll soon be fighting the same one's over many times.
  
  The game will last you about 20-30 hours. This is due to the fact that there are VERY little side 
 quests, and the numerous zones don't take very long to explore thoroughly. The game is way too 
 linear in my opinion, but definitely a BUY for RPG fans.
  
  8.7 
::::::

::::::
UserName: snoopyanthony11
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 20, 2007 11:55 pm PT
Review:  I'll admit, as a 25 year old man, Eternal Sonata shouldn't be the game that sticks in my mind, 
 but alas, it is. I don't think I've written one review here, but this game deserves it. I'm sure 
 you've heard everyone talk about the look of the game, so I won't spend time on that, but it truly 
 IS amazing.
  
  The characters are great, although they like to repeat stuff at times to make sure they get it 
 (meaning make sure YOU know exactly what's going on) which, at some points, is repetitive since 
 the plot isn't really all that deep.
  
  All in all this game is a great accomplishment for the 360. FINALLY! Jump into this one even if 
 you rent it, definitely try it out. (even if you are a 25 year old man whose girlfriend makes fun 
 of you :D ) It's worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bonafide3210
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 20, 2007 11:27 pm PT
Review:  Lets face it. Blue Dragon was disappointing, and Enchanted Arms was well, a lackluster title. But 
 Eternal Sonata seems to do the JRPG formula correctly. The good stuff about the title is the music, 
 the story, the diversity of characters (the total amount of characters is 10 O_o) , and the game 
 is really easy to pick up and play. The Graphics are vibrant and makes Frederic Choplin's Dream 
 become even more of a reality. The bad things about this game is that the main story clocks in about 
 20 hours, and the main story is very straight forward with only 2 sidequests in the game. but dont 
 let those stop you from buying the game. If you have been craving for an jrpg to be on the 360 
 your prayers have been answered, and it doesnt have a dragon for golem in it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IDREADI
Rating: 0
Date: Sep 20, 2007 4:11 pm PT
Review: C//DTD HTML 4.01//EN"        Eternal Sonata User Reviews 
 for Xbox 360 - GameSpot                                   function do_rbx_ctrk_netxp1 (aElem, iTrkId, 
 cTrkPrefix) { var imgElem =  if (! imgElem) { return true; } if 
 (! aElem. rbxCPrefixed) { aElem. rbxCPrefixed = true; var destUri =  
 var newUri = cTrkPrefix + destUri; aElem. href = newUri; } return true; } function do_rbx_itrk_netxp1 
 (parentId, iTrkId, iTrkUri) { if (! document. images) { return false; } var imgId = iTrkId; var imgElem 
 =  if (! imgElem) { var parentElem =  
 if (! parentElem) { return false; } var imgElem = document. createElement ('img') ; if (! imgElem) { 
 return false; } imgElem. id = imgId; imgElem. src = iTrkUri; imgElem. alt = ''; imgElem. width = '1'; 
 imgElem. height = '1';  } return true; }   ON   CBSSports. com : 
  Hottie Hall Of Fame ? Fox vs Alba&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;    //    
::::::

::::::
UserName: chrisomahony
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 19, 2007 3:02 pm PT
Review:  I picked up this game with one thing in mind. And that is to have a good old fashion RPG. It really 
 is. Rich story, that makes you wonder whats going to happen next. Stunning visuals, you will be 
 amazed at the cell shaded detail. O ya, the combat. Is absolutely innovative, real time mixed with 
 turn based. In plan detail if you can get over how little the characters look then this game is 
 a most buy if your a RPG go getter. Forgot the sound potion. It rocks since the game is focused 
 a lot on sound. In summary, Eternal Sonata shows a new height in Japanese RPG's. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MeanDan
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 19, 2007 11:10 am PT
Review:  Eternal Sonata
  
  The back drop for the game is the final dream of a dying music composer, Frederick Chopin. It makes 
 for a pretty interesting setting, even though the game is stilled filled with your standard towns, 
 forests, caves and swamps, the idea that its all a dream somehow separates it from its kin. Story
 
  
  So far the story has been only slightly off of run of the mill. What saves it is the dream 
 setting. The characters and story development are very good however; there will be times when some 
 of the characters (especially Polka) will be so damn cute that it will kind of make you laugh. 
 However, dont think that this is a kids game, the characters are all very serious when it comes 
 down to it and they all have pretty serious problems of there own (the impending death of Polka 
 and Frederick, not a spoiler, you find this out within the first 15 mins of the game) .
  
  Graphics
  
  Like I said earlier the game is filled with your standard forests and such, but 
 behind the power of the Xbox360, the details, colors and general atmosphere of the game is quite 
 rich. All of the colors in the game are rich and well painted without over saturating. The detail 
 in the characters, monsters, environments and buildings is quite amazing.
  
  All of the characters and monster have been designed in a light cell shade effect, what I mean 
 by light cell shading is the black line that outlines all of the characters is very thin and 
 almost unnoticeable. The light cell shading is very refreshing compared to lets say the Digital 
 Devil Saga series. Seriously, the characters look amazing.
  
  While the game is rendered in full 3D, all of the environments are filled with 2D back drops, so 
 there arent any places to run around an open field, so to speak, but you are lead along a path 
 through the environments. However the battles take place in full 3D battle maps.
  
  Battle System
  
  The battle system is a nice mix of real-time combat and classic J-RPG turn 
 based menu dancing. While there arent any menus to rush through, you do have different abilities 
 assigned to different buttons on the controller and an item slider that you can assign different 
 items to prior to battle. The entire fight is run by turns and a battle timer. At the start of 
 the game the timer doesnt move else you DO something, meaning move your character around the 
 battlefield or attack, but as the game progress the battle system changes. By the second phase 
 of the battle system, you have unlimited time to plan what you are going to do, but as soon as 
 you move the battle timer starts and doesnt stop until your time is up. Phase 3 basically gives 
 you 5 secs at the beginning of the fight to decide what to do and then the battle timer starts. 
 I imagine they will get harder and harder as the game progresses.
  
  Your opponents turns work the same way. Additionally on their turns you can block and even counterattack 
 by timing key strokes at the appropriate times. Getting good at blocking becomes quite necessary 
 as the game progresses.
  
  Now for the really interesting part: Light and Dark abilities. In Eternal Sonata the battlefield 
 can be your friend or your foe, because all of your available abilities depend on whether or not 
 you are standing in the light or in a shadow. This makes for some very interesting strategic battles, 
 especially since some of the larger monsters and bosses cast their own shadow or radiate light. 
 Generally your if your casters are standing in the light they have healing spells available to 
 them and when in shadow attack magic. Your melee fighters however will have different attacks they 
 are still just attacks, some will be more powerful in shadow than light and vice versa. Sound/Music
 
  
  All of the music is very nice and most of it is actually music composed by Chopin himself. During 
 battle, the music compliment the settings nicely and while running around between battles the music 
 never becomes monotonous. All around the music and sound effects fit very nicely into the game.
 
  
  Pros:
  -Interesting Story
  -Beautifully detailed and design
  -Music is wonderful
  -Loveable characters without being cartoon-ish
  
  Cons:
  -Lack of detail when it comes to 
 weapons and armor (meaning you equip different weapons but graphically you tote around the same 
 sword from start to finish)
  -Blocking your foes attacks can become irritating since some monsters attack so fast that you dont 
 really get a chance to block, you almost have to block proactively rather than reactively, which 
 requires battle the same monster many times to get their rhythm down
  
  Overall:
  
  Eternal Sonata is a graphical masterpiece with a well thought out and fast paced battle system 
 that will keep you on your toes for start to finish, with adorable characters that have deep enough 
 back stories that they will keep you interested throughout the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BigC43
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 19, 2007 8:16 am PT
Review:  The Good: Beautiful graphics, wonderfully colorful, flowing world, emotional consept, excellent 
 and unique combat system, outstanding musical score and voice acting. The Bad: No online co-op, 
 almost too emotional.
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  Unfortunately, the Xbox 360 isn't a system known for it's RPGs, except for Oblivion. 2007 hoped 
 to change that by having several RPGs released for the system. One of these is Namco/Bandai's Eternal 
 Sonata, a wonderful RPG with stunning stylized graphics, a beautiful soundtrack and unique combat 
 system combined with a wrather touching and emotional consept. The basic idea of Eternal Sonata 
 is that people can use magic, but only if they are terminally ill. This becomes evident in a young 
 girl named Polka, who is one of the main characters in the game. The consept is rather interesting, 
 and quite emotional as the story progresses. The storyline is extremely well done, and the cutscenes 
 have a very cinematic feel to them.
  
  The graphics of Eternal Sonata are absolutely beautiful. It's one of the most unique looking games 
 on the 360. It's in an anime style, but everything has this dreamy glow and haze around it that 
 makes you feel like you are playing through a children's bedtime story. It is stunning visually, 
 but it also has an outstanding, dreamy soundtrack that needs to be nominated for best soundtrack 
 of the year. It's fantastic and goes perfectly with the game. The voice acting is also superb, 
 and adds a lot to the emotional undertone of the game.
  
  So yeah, Eternal Sonata is a technical masterpiece and has a great story, but another thing that 
 makes it so good is the combat system. I'm not a huge fan of turn-based combat in RPGs, but I've 
 grown to like it in select games, such as Blue Dragon and Jeanne D'arc, but Eternal Sonata suprised 
 me in how it's combat is handled. It's still turn based, but instead of having you pick your attack 
 from a menu, you have a small time period where you attack your enemies in real time. It's basically 
 the best of both worlds. It features turn-based stratagy, but also real time combat. It works out 
 extremely well and is very easy to get into. The fact is, Eternal Sonata is a immersive game that 
 is something that 360 gamers have been waiting to see on a system known for it's shooters.
  
  I do have a couple minor gripes about Eternal Sonata, but neither of these can deminish how 
 fantastic this game is. First, you can play the game co-op for 1-3 players, but it's offline only. 
 It would have been better if online co-op was included, but that might come along later in the 
 form of DLC. The other is that the game can get almost too emotional at times. I almost cried a 
 few times during my first short experience with the game. It's a very emotionally charged game 
 that you could get too into the story. Other than that, Eternal Sonata is a superb RPG that is 
 one of the best the 360 has to offer.
  
  Overall, Eternal Sonata is a must play for RPG fans who are looking for something different to 
 play on their 360s, and for those looking for a flowing, dreamy kind of game.
  
  Gameplay: Excellent and unique combat combined with a emotionally charged story make Eternal Sonata 
 an RPG you won't soon forget.
  
  Graphics: One of the most beautiful games I've seen this year.
  
  Sound: Soundtrack of the 
 Year worthy music and excellent voice acting add a ton to the game.
  
  Value: This is an RPG you will want to take your time to play.
  
  Final Thoughts: It was all 
 just a dream... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: oldsoulco
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 19, 2007 5:25 am PT
Review:  Eternal Sonata is just a good game. its easy to get into with a nice control system. it engages 
 you in the combat more effectively than other turn based RPG's by giving you the chance to block 
 incoming attacks. It also allows 3 PLAYER action in battle sequences. this just blew me away when 
 i seen the option. Lots of neat side things to do like learn to play Scores. I tried this in the 
 demo but not in the game so far. you can also take battle pictures and sell them to people in game.
 
  
  The graphics are nice and clean cut in ES. not a lot of jaded edges but there are a few. the only 
 thing i can see that is a little annoying is the movie's are very long. sometimes with not a lot 
 being said. it maybe a translation thing, but it gets a little annoying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Knightmare_King
Rating: 0
Date: Sep 18, 2007 4:08 pm PT
Review: C//DTD HTML 4.01//EN"        Eternal Sonata User Reviews 
 for Xbox 360 - GameSpot                                   function do_rbx_ctrk_netxp1 (aElem, iTrkId, 
 cTrkPrefix) { var imgElem =  if (! imgElem) { return true; } if 
 (! aElem. rbxCPrefixed) { aElem. rbxCPrefixed = true; var destUri =  
 var newUri = cTrkPrefix + destUri; aElem. href = newUri; } return true; } function do_rbx_itrk_netxp1 
 (parentId, iTrkId, iTrkUri) { if (! document. images) { return false; } var imgId = iTrkId; var imgElem 
 =  if (! imgElem) { var parentElem =  
 if (! parentElem) { return false; } var imgElem = document. createElement ('img') ; if (! imgElem) { 
 return false; } imgElem. id = imgId; imgElem. src = iTrkUri; imgElem. alt = ''; imgElem. width = '1'; 
 imgElem. height = '1';  } return true; }   ON   CNET :  What Hulu 
 offers that YouTube doesnt?    //    
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yuna08
Rating: 0
Date: Sep 17, 2007 7:45 am PT
Review: C//DTD HTML 4.01//EN"        Eternal Sonata User Reviews 
 for Xbox 360 - GameSpot                                   function do_rbx_ctrk_netxp1 (aElem, iTrkId, 
 cTrkPrefix) { var imgElem =  if (! imgElem) { return true; } if 
 (! aElem. rbxCPrefixed) { aElem. rbxCPrefixed = true; var destUri =  
 var newUri = cTrkPrefix + destUri; aElem. href = newUri; } return true; } function do_rbx_itrk_netxp1 
 (parentId, iTrkId, iTrkUri) { if (! document. images) { return false; } var imgId = iTrkId; var imgElem 
 =  if (! imgElem) { var parentElem =  
 if (! parentElem) { return false; } var imgElem = document. createElement ('img') ; if (! imgElem) { 
 return false; } imgElem. id = imgId; imgElem. src = iTrkUri; imgElem. alt = ''; imgElem. width = '1'; 
 imgElem. height = '1';  } return true; }   ON   mySimon :  Bikinis 
 are Better in the Summer    //    
::::::

::::::
UserName: FlawlessSeasons
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 17, 2007 5:15 am PT
Review:  Eternal Sonata is quite possibly the most unique JRPG to come out in years. Gone are the clich&eacute; d 
 stories of evil rulers threatening to destroy the world, overly flamboyant male leads, and OH 
 NO MY HOME TOWN WAS DESTORYED! stories, Eternal Sonata is far more complex than those clich&eacute; s. 
 The game starts with 19th century pianist Fr&eacute; d&eacute; ric Chopin on his death bed stricken 
 down with tuberculosis. Chopin has three hours to live, and the actual story of the game takes 
 place in his dream world where people that have incurable diseases are blessed (or cursed, depending 
 on the way you look at it) with the power of magic. It is in this dream world that Chopin meets 
 a young girl named Polka (all the characters have music related names) who is an outcast in the 
 town she is living in due to the fact that people associate magic (which she possesses) as a disease 
 (also which she possesses.) Chopin forms a bond through sympathy with her, starting the story that 
 deals with things such as good and evil, disease, love, existentialism, and all that good stuff. 
 Throughout the game you will encounter at least 10 (of which I know of) playable characters that 
 will come and go at key points in the story, much like some of the characters in older Final Fantasy 
 games. Eternal Sonata is a JRPG, and with JRPGs come battles. Some games have battle systems that 
 can be too simple, to complex, too active, too boring, and other issues, but Eternal Sonatas mix 
 of turn based and real time action finds a perfect balance of battle systems. The best way to describe 
 Eternal Sonatas battle system is a mix between turn based games like Dragon Quest and real time 
 action games like the Tales series. All the characters and enemies have turns but when a turn comes 
 around you can wait for a bit to plan out what youre going to do, then start to freely move around 
 in order to approach and enemy and attack them in real time. When you start moving, a timer starts 
 so you have about five seconds to get your attacks in before your turn is over. As you advance 
 through the game, you dont have unlimited time to wait and plan forcing you to make decisions 
 on the fly. While fighting, you have the chance to block attacks, every time an enemy is about 
 to attack, a icon will come up on screen saying chance if you press B when that icon comes up 
 you will block the attack taking less damage. Another interesting mechanic in the game is the light/dark 
 mechanics. The battle ground is covered in a mixture of light and shadow, and depending where you 
 are standing, your attacks will be different. Some enemies are weaker against light attacks and 
 stronger against dark. Enemies will often change forms entirely going from one side to another. 
 The earliest enemy you see do this is this little onion like thing where if it goes into the shadow 
 it becomes a behemoth larger than anyone in your team. With the turn based real time action and 
 the light/dark mechanics, the battle system is definitely a breath of fresh air in the JRPG world.
 
  
  In the visual and audio departments Eternal Sonata is absolutely beautiful. Visually, the game 
 is amazing. There is not one bad thing I can say about it. The characters cell shading is without 
 a doubt the best cell shaded graphics ever made, and all the environments are visually outstanding. 
 All the colors in this game really pop out at you and make this game one big piece of eye candy. 
 The soundtrack is also just as amazing as the visuals. A lot of the music is Chopins actual compositions 
 or original music made in the vein of Chopin. The music sets the tone perfectly for whatever is 
 happening in the world, fights, wondering, or walking around a town. In the end, Eternal Sonata 
 is flat out amazing. The unique story, the fun game play, and the amazing audio/visuals make this 
 game a must buy for any JRPG enthusiast. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
