-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: F.E.A.R.
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/xbox360/action/fear/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Incredibly kinetic action and visually intense firefights.
 creepy psychological horror.
 instant-action mode lets you compare your best scores online.
 frenetic multiplayer mode.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Complex control scheme is a bit clumsy on the gamepad.
 &quot;bonus&quot; mission isn't much of a bonus.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov  1, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.6
Critic Score: 8.4, 49 Review (s)
User Score: 8.4, 5,221 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Vivendi Games
Developer: Day 1 Studios
Genre: Modern First-Person...
Date: Oct 31, 2006
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
This straightforward translation of last year's hit PC game blends kinetic action with creepy atmosphere 
 to create one of the most intense shooters on the Xbox 360. 

  When you get down to it, the gun is the heart and soul of a first-person shooter. Even the genre's 
 name alludes to this fact. Yet while shooters have been around for more than a decade, very few 
 of them have captured the visceral experience of firing a gun. It's an intense and violent act. 
 Enter the Xbox 360 translation of F. E. A. R., last year's acclaimed PC action game. F. E. A. R. is a 
 shooter that captures the sensation of being in wild and desperate firefights, and it's an incredible 
 experience from start to finish. More notably, however, it's one of the most atmospheric and creepy 
 games ever made.  

          F. E. AR. places you on the military's elite paranormal investigation team, so you're kind 
 of like Agent Mulder, only with a lot more firepower.     

  If you played the PC version, you'll find the Xbox 360 version almost exactly the same in terms 
 of content. If you didn't play the PC game, the challenge in describing F. E. A. R. is trying to avoid 
 any spoilers because this is definitely a game that you want to experience unspoiled. You play 
 as the newest member of the First Encounter Assault Recon, the military's top-secret task force 
 that is assigned to deal with paranormal situations. And the mission in F. E. A. R. certainly counts 
 as above and beyond the regular call of duty. As explained in the opening sequence, a military 
 commander, named Paxton Fettel, goes insane and takes over a secret army of cloned soldiers that 
 are telepathically linked to him. Fettel and the battalion of elite soldiers then go on a rampage 
 in a nondescript American city.  

  F. E. A. R. works because it elevates first-person-shooter combat to cinematic levels. Playing F. E. A. R. 
 is like battling through a John Woo movie, because when firefights occur in this game, they're 
 downright glorious. Bullets tear chunks out of concrete and wood; blinding clouds of dust and debris 
 fill the air; bodies are torn apart or slump on the ground; and the deathly silence of the aftermath 
 contrasts so sharply with the sheer chaos that erupted only moments before. Gunfights in F. E. A. R. 
 just feel  right . This is partly because the weapons you have in the game feel the way weapons 
 should -- powerful. You have the standard array of guns to play around with, including a pistol, 
 submachine gun, assault rifle, shotgun, and rocket launcher. There's also a scoped, burst-firing 
 rifle that's a dead ringer for the Master Chief's battle rifle in Halo 2; an incredibly nasty particle 
 weapon that sears the flesh off of opponents; and a few other special toys.  

  You've also got some special abilities at your disposal. For example, you can kill foes with a 
 swift dropkick or scissors kick, which is such an awesome move that even when you pull it off in 
 desperation (like when you've emptied a clip and don't have time to reload) , it still feels incredibly 
 cool. Yet, your most important ability is your ultrafast reflexes, which can be activated in short 
 bursts to create a sort of  Matrix -like bullet time. Now, bullet time has been done to death over 
 the past few years, but the execution of bullet time in F. E. A. R. is still well done. When you kick 
 in the reflexes, everything else slows down, and you can see the vortexes in the air created by 
 bullets. You can activate this ability only in short bursts before it runs out. Because it recharges 
 at a decent rate, however, you can generally have it at your disposal in most fights. This slow-motion 
 ability is almost essential for surviving some of the tougher battles; you can use it to whittle 
 down the odds. With that said, we almost wish that it were a bit rarer in the game because F. E. A. R. 
 really comes alive when the firefights are shown in full speed, not slow motion.  

  Because the controls are a bit clumsy for a game that relies on split-second reactions, all of 
 this complexity comes at a price. Even near the end of the game, we still had problems where we 
 accidentally threw a grenade when we meant to go into bullet time, or we unnecessarily burned through 
 a health pack instead of activating the flashlight. (Unfortunately, F. E. A. R. still relies on the 
 overly hackneyed contrivance of having your elite military trooper equipped with a flashlight that 
 has a 30-second battery life.) Halo 2 veterans will most likely have trouble adapting because the 
 left trigger tosses a grenade in F. E. A. R., whereas most Halo veterans have been conditioned to 
 use the left trigger to fire whatever weapon is being wielded in the left hand.  

          F. E. A. R. was Black before there was Black because bullets can tear up the environment. 
     

  Without a doubt, you've got an extremely formidable arsenal at your disposal. And you're going 
 to need it against the artificial intelligence in F. E. A. R. Put simply, these are the smartest, 
 most aggressive, most tactically oriented AI opponents that we've ever encountered in a shooter. 
 And they're downright impressive. The AI opponents are incredibly sharp and will do things that 
 you don't expect, like pin you down while one of them flanks you. Or they'll pin you down and plop 
 a grenade next to you. These guys move around from cover to cover; they communicate with one another; 
 they'll react to any sound or sight of you. They've got the same weapons as you, and their guns 
 do the same amount of damage to you as yours do to them. So you've got to use cover and lean around 
 corners as much as possible because it doesn't take much to shred your armor and health to zero. 
 This can create situations in which you're pinned down, firing desperately to keep their heads 
 down while trying to figure a way out of your current situation. The AI can also take advantage 
 of the game's physics system and knock over objects to create cover.  

  You'll take a lot of damage during the game, but thankfully, you can pick up countless health packs 
 and armor kits. You can also collect up to 10 health kits for later use, which you'll use liberally 
 to keep yourself going in the heat of battle. And while there is a way to permanently boost your 
 maximum health level and stamina, sooner or later, you'll fall to the enemy. The 360 version includes 
 only a checkpoint save system, which means that when you die, you'll fall back to the last checkpoint. 
 Although there's no way to manually save the game at any point, the checkpoints are reasonably 
 spaced. So we didn't run into any issues where we had to play lengthy sections over and over again. 
     

  F. E. A. R. features excellent combat, but as good as the AI is, it doesn't take too long for you 
 to get used to taking down small groups of soldiers. And these encounters can feel a bit repetitive 
 after a point. Because you're dealing with an army of clones, you're essentially battling the same 
 guy over and over, which also lends an air of familiarity to your opponent. It's not until you 
 run into the huge, set-piece battles against a dozen foes or more that things get tricky. The game 
 does introduce a few new foes to change things up a bit in the middle of the game, but the cloned 
 soldiers represent the opponent you'll battle most of the time. And while they're solid opponents, 
 we'd love to have seen more variety, such as more of the high-tech ninjas that appear midway through 
 the game. These guys can make themselves invisible with a cloak, can climb up walls, and possess 
 the same ultrafast abilities that you do. The first time you encounter them can be a shock, and 
 it's disappointing that they rarely show up again afterward.  

          You always have a sense that paranormal forces are at work, and if you don't, that creepy 
 little girl who kills people will remind you.     

  The environments can also feel a bit repetitive after a while. F. E. A. R. takes place in basically 
 three settings: a deserted industrial area, a deserted office complex, or a deserted and run-down 
 urban setting. Notice a pattern? While the levels are designed to allow for wild and wooly gunfights, 
 F. E. A. R. could certainly use more variety when it comes to environments because you'll start to 
 feel as if you've explored the same factory or office complex for the umpteenth time. It would 
 also be nice to have an unpredictable element in the game, such as civilians you need to protect, 
 or at least, not harm.  

  F. E. A. R. is heavily influenced by Japanese horror movies, most notably  The Ring . In fact, the 
 game uses many of the same kinds of visual tricks to scare you that you've probably already seen 
 before in a movie, like the split-second appearance of a ghostly apparition when you least expect 
 it. And while the imagery in F. E. A. R. may not be entirely original, it's exceedingly effective. 
 The designers are smart enough to realize that less is more when it comes to building tension. 
 There are stretches in F. E. A. R. when you don't battle anything. And it's unsettling to search abandoned 
 office buildings only to find pools of blood or the voicemail left by family members who are trying 
 to contact their loved ones. Then there are areas where you expect some kind of gargantuan throw-down, 
 brace yourself for battle, but nothing happens. Because there's always some kind of noise or rattling 
 of objects to greet you, or the fleeting image of someone in the corner of your eye, you certainly 
 feel as if you're being watched the whole time. Admittedly, some of these tricks become a bit too 
 familiar over time, but there are still enough of them to keep you on your toes. And there are 
 a number of jump-out-of-your-seat moments in the game as well.  

  This omnipresent tension combined with the outstanding combat make F. E. A. R. an immersive game, 
 even if it leaves you a bit emotionally exhausted after a while. And as much as we enjoyed the 
 game's atmosphere, we were a bit disappointed by the plot. Rest assured that F. E. A. R. features 
 a complete story and an ending. The trouble is that it seems as if several plotlines lack some 
 kind of satisfactory payoff for all your trouble, so the game's a bit of a letdown in this aspect. 
 The end level is also disappointing because it's surprisingly easy, especially compared to what 
 you've experienced to get to that point. Thankfully, F. E. A. R. does end on a spectacular note, though 
 we won't spoil it for you.  

  The single-player story should take you a good 10 hours to get through, which is on par with other 
 shooters. When you're done with it, there's a neat little instant action mode that serves as sort 
 of a time trial, where you have to get through a level as fast as possible. Your score can then 
 be uploaded, and you can see your ranking on the leaderboard. The 360 version also comes with a 
 "bonus" mission that lasts all of 10 minutes, if you're lucky. In this mission, you get to play 
 as Holiday, the F. E. A. R. team's leader, where you escort a freed hostage to the roof. Because Holiday 
 doesn't have the same enhanced reflexes as the main character, this means that all of the firefights 
 occur at full speed, and this gives you a taste of what F. E. A. R. would feel like if it were played 
 as a "regular" shooter. On a related note, the achievements in the 360 version are fairly disappointing 
 because most of the points are skewed to having you play the game over and over again in incredibly 
 challenging conditions, such as  never  dying or never using your enhanced reflexes. Most of the 
 other achievements are locked up in having you perform impressive feats with certain weapons or 
 racking up kills in multiplayer mode.  

  Speaking of which, the multiplayer mode on Xbox Live is as fast-paced and furious as the bullets 
 can fly. F. E. A. R. features all of the standard multiplayer modes that you'd expect, including deathmatch, 
 team deathmatch, and capture the flag. But it differentiates itself by incorporating many of the 
 cool features found in single-player mode, such as the ability to slow down time. Basically, one 
 player can control the ability at a time, and you can wrest control of it if you kill that player. 
 The downside is that you can only use the slow-motion ability for limited bursts. And because everyone 
 knows your location at all times, this can be used to hunt you down. On the flip side, however, 
 you can also use this to set a trap in a team game because your teammates can set up ambushes to 
 take out players who are out to get you.  

          The Xbox 360 version looks as good as last year's PC version, and the frame rate holds 
 up even in the most intense firefights.     

  Throughout F. E. A. R., the graphics, the particle effects, the physics, and the sound effects combine 
 to create the sense that all hell is breaking loose. The 360 version features some enhanced lighting 
 over the PC version, but for the most part, the visuals are equivalent to the PC version running 
 on a high-end system. And the frame rate holds up quite well throughout the game. We noticed only 
 a few moments when it barely stuttered. Obviously, the game looks best in high definition, but 
 even standard definition manages to look pretty sharp. Meanwhile, the audio in F. E. A. R. is outstanding, 
 and the sounds go a long way to establish the mood. In a game that's all about making you afraid 
 of the dark, it's often the little noises that send you spinning around, ready to blast whatever 
 it is that made the sound. Combat also sounds glorious. You can hear almost every single noise 
 in a firefight, such as glass shattering apart, spent brass cartridges hitting the floor, and the 
 thud of explosions. The voice acting is generally good, though we do wish that the mixing was better 
 because it's sometimes hard to hear the dialogue over everything else.  

  F. E. A. R. is quite easily one of the most intense and atmospheric games on the Xbox 360, and it's 
 an excellent blend of horror and action. F. E. A. R. features some of the best gunplay available in 
 a first-person shooter. This alone makes it an incredibly intense game that must be experienced. 
 The fact that it's also one of the creepiest games ever made is just icing on the cake.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (400 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: ferntfactor
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 17, 2009 3:52 pm PT
Review:  i bought this used for 9.99 and can honestly say it's the best $10 Canadian i've ever spent. sure 
 the faceless industrial buildings and office get a bit relentless, but yowsa, hair actual stood 
 up on my neck... repeatedly! this first installment never lets you kick back and relax. parts may 
 lull you into boredom, and then - BAM!!! - it nearly makes you jump out of your skin. 
  
  it's really, really unsettling. and i swear that the non-stop soundtrack uses that movie device 
 - some sort of horror frequency - that makes you constantly feel uneasy. i mean, you start to know 
 that something's about to leap out of the dark, but it still manages to startle you every time. 
 
  
  the good:
  
  - f'n scary 
  - pretty good weapon action
  - little evil girls - you can't beat em. OK, clowns and Teletubbies are pretty damn creepy too. 
 someone seriously wronged this kid and she's up to no good. 
  - the bad guy is well, pretty scary. i mean evil's one thing, but pseudo British and evil? well 
 that's a whole nother level.
  - dark, unrelenting.
  - lulls you. then makes you crap your pants.
  - the sound scape creates a nightmare you willingly 
 endure.
  - play this only at night, in total darkness. it'll shorten your life by 2 years.
  
  the bad:
  - repetition - ummm... haven't i been in this AC shaft before?
  - the graphics 
 are passable, not awesome.
  
  summary: 
  - if you see this used, for 10 bucks, i personally guarantee you that it's olde school fun and 
 worth every penny, or your money back. how do i do it, you ask? volume, my friend. volume.
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: wwekane
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 26, 2009 3:33 pm PT
Review:  F. E. A. R is a great horror FPS without zombies. The only horror is really the visions that you have 
 which are cool and not overly horrifying. The game has a good storyline and the graphics are good 
 to. There's not enough cut scenes, but the guns are awesome. The assault rifle is the best gun 
 to me. The multiplayer sucks but the single player is long so it does keep you occupied for awhile. 
 The good thing is the guns do hold a lot of ammo but you lose health and armor fast and there really 
 is not a lot of health kits or armor but there is health boosters which are really neat because 
 it adds five points to your original health by the last level my health was one hundred and ninety 
 nine. The slow mo is a huge advantage since there is no cover system but nonetheless it's an awesome 
 game and I recomened it to anyone that likes a horror game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: phishyphishy
Rating: 5.5
Date: Mar 1, 2009 8:21 pm PT
Review:  I bought this game a while back, played it for a few hours, and being completely disappointed, 
 put it down. But, recently, after seeing some good reviews for F. E. A. R. 2, I decided to give this 
 game one more shot. And after putting in the man-hours and completing the game, I can official 
 say that F. E. A. R. is one of the most overrated series out. I really cannot understand how this 
 game gets good ratings. Here is my list of grievances.
  
  First, and foremost, is that the majority of the game takes place in the same environment (an office 
 building) . The game starts off here and you go twist and turn your way through the same stupid 
 office building until you get to the final couple intervals. It is a real shame too, because once 
 you get out of the building the new environments are actually interesting and fun, but I'm sure 
 most people don't have the patience to get to this point in the campaign. 
  
  Second, F. E. A. R. has one of the poorly excicuted plots of all time. Now, I have to say that the 
 story is intreaging, however most of the story is told through hard to hear phone messages that 
 you have to find throughout the levels. And once you start getting into the story you begin to 
 realize that the game is going to reveal absoultely nothing. And I refuse to buy F. E. A. R. 2 to 
 find out what was going on in F. E. A. R.
  
  Finally, and this is a petty grievence, the achievements for F. E. A. R. are worthless. You only get 
 a couple dozen points for playing through the game, and the majority of achievment points require 
 completeing the game again under some ridiculous condition, such as not using you focus.
  
  In conclusion, do not bother playing this game. I did not play much multi-player, but personally 
 I base games on their campaigns. Anyway, I find most FPS multilayer the same. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bleedgreen2-1-5
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 16, 2009 9:31 pm PT
Review:  Since it was made in 2006 the graphics are good at best, the gameplay is fun and the AI are actually 
 challenging. There is a good set of weapons and the particle gun is amazing, you can actually destroy 
 a person and turn them into a skeleton, there is also a gun that nails opponents to a wall. The 
 effects are great although, when fighting with with guns smoke blurs your vision and it is an easy 
 way to get shot. Also there are too many healthkits scattered around so dying, unless on a harder 
 level, is rare. There are no bosses and no on screen maps for navigation. The mind games played 
 on you by Alma, the physcic creepy girl are always keeping you on your heels, although at times 
 the balance between scares and cinamatic effect and fighting are off. There will be an entire interval 
 where there is no creepiness. And than there are those annoying guns that shoot from the ceiling 
 and destroy you, luckily there are alternate ways around them.
  
  all in all a great game and definatley worth a look, especially if you want to move on to FEAR 
 2
  
  Graphics 8
  Gameplay 8
  Story 9 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigd575
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 9, 2009 12:37 pm PT
Review:  FEAR is a pretty good game not to bad for a FPS, actually I didn't expect to like it as much as 
 I did so I was a little bit surprised by it I guess you could say. But with that said there are 
 some things wrong with it, which there are with every game. But for the most part you notice the 
 good more than you will all of the bad things in the game.
  
  The good:
  The story was good it's very interesting and it keep me hooked to the game all the way through. 
 The story is actually a solid one and most will like it.
  
  The graphics aren't that bad, there basically ok they could have been better but it isn't a big 
 deal. There really isn't any difference between the 360 and PS3, they both look the same.
  
  It's got a lot of violence in it which is great also, the gameplay isn't bad at all and is 
 very fun at times also. Any fan of FPS would like it.
  
  The bad:
  The game seems like it missing something when you play it, I couldn't really figure out what it 
 was either.
  
  Also the game isn't scary at all, and I was disappointed by this because I thought it would be 
 but it isn't one bit. There was sometimes when I jumped but not because something scared me.
  
  The game is also easy and could have been harder than it was, it just didn't put up enough 
 challenge for me. 
  
  Overall F. E. A. R. is a great game, it could have been a little bit better than what it was though. 
 Any fan of FPS should like it and they all need to try it out.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DirkXXVI
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 8, 2009 2:09 pm PT
Review:  I played FEAR at a time where I was desperate for a a next generation scare. I had already been 
 disappointed and hurt by Resident Evil 4 and Silent Hill was about to become Americanized in the 
 worst possible way. I had heard good thinks about FEAR and I thought it to be my saving grace. 
 Especially after seeing a live action video on YouTube where the little girl from the cover is 
 getting interviewed. I thought, "wow, this really takes me back to 1997 where Resident Evil was 
 using full-motion video in their cut scenes, well at least their intro and endings." Man was I 
 wrong. 
  
  Now since I'm a story oriented gamer I guess I'll start with that. For one the story might be good, 
 but I sure as hell don't know, and I beat the game. It's more along the lines of Half-Life, you 
 know the deal by now mute main character while you stay trapped in the first person view where 
 "zomg it r like i r ders." The dialog is so quiet that I had to turn my TV all the way up to hear 
 what was going on, and for the most part I couldn't understand what was going on half of the time. 
 I don't know if it was to complicated or if I just didn't care anymore once I got to the halfway 
 point. I do have an idea now, and it definitely has potential but the presentation is just plain 
 bloody awful. 
  
  Now for the game. The game is actually pretty fun. For the most part it really is an action game 
 until the end, but the little girl shows up enough to at the very least creep you out, especially 
 when she shows up in an air vent and crawls towards you like a crazed animal. So for that I was 
 thankful.
  
  The game also pushes the idea that you're an enhanced solider and to simulate that they give you 
 to use slow motion to simulate a level of awesomeness that you're normal brain isn't capable of 
 producing. It's actually quite useful but it does make the game a little to easy at times. 
  
  Outside of that the game is nothing more then your typical first person shooter. I was actually 
 pretty disappointed, but if FPS's are up your alley then you might want to at least try it out. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eajack
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 2, 2009 12:28 pm PT
Review:  F. E. A. R. was the first game I played on my 360 when I got it back in 2007. Being the first game 
 I played on the new console, I was satisfied with the game overall. But two years later, as I finally 
 get around to playing F. E. A. R. Files, I realize how the game has fallen behind the times.
  
  First off, let me say this. F. E. A. R. does an excellent job of creeping you out. This game begs 
 to be played with the lights down and the sound up. Unless you are completely desensitized, you 
 will find the game's atmosphere creepy, with some jump-out-of-your seat moments.
  
  The combat is visceral, and you will get outsmarted by the excellent AI if you are not careful. 
 Weapons sound beefy and pack a punch. And there is a good selection to the tools of death, ranging 
 from basic pistols to realistic but fictional energy weapons.
  
  Stories in shooters are typically not that deep. You'll find the same in F. E. A. R. There is enough 
 to keep you going from segment to segment, but not enough to really answer any questions you may 
 have as to why you are really doing what you are. Even if you catch snippets of conversations, 
 files on laptops and telephone messages, you will likely be confused.
  
  Where F. E. A. R. really shows its age is in its graphics and level designs. The graphics, while serviceable, 
 are entirely "last-generation". Level designs consist of endless hallways and office buildings 
 with little to no logical layout. And everything is very linear. There is pretty much only one 
 way to go, and no alternate paths or other areas to explore.
  
  Overall, F. E. A. R. is a good game to play if you like your shooters with a twist. You will remember 
 the creepiness of the game for some time to come. And with F. E. A. R. 2 just around the corner, you 
 can find this in bargain bins and get yourself ready for what looks like a vastly improved sequel. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TwistedMetalFan
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 8, 2009 6:18 pm PT
Review:  Have you been searching for a shooter that will give you good scares, but won't constantly throwing 
 them in your face? Have you been searching for a game that has A. I. enemies think like you would 
 if you were fighting yourself? Well, your search is over. F. E. A. R. is a very intense from the nice 
 people at Monolith. Originally a PC game, the Xbox 360 version was ported over about a year later 
 by Day 1 Studios. And for the most part, it worked really well.
  
  In F. E. A. R., you are a new member in the top-secret military group known as First Encounter Assault 
 Recon, or F. E. A. R. A military commander named Paxton Fettel has gone insane, and has manged to 
 take control of an army of clone soldiers. And they appear to be searching for something in a unnamed 
 city. It isn't long before you figure out there's way more to it than that. I won't spoil any more 
 to the story, it is very good, and it's twist are very well done, just make sure to go to every 
 computer, and phone you can find to get the most out of the story.
  
  F. E. A. R.'s atmosphere is very impressive. The game is always giving you a feeling of whatever is 
 happening, even before it happens. F. E. A. R. does a very good job of setting up for a good scare, 
 the appearances of the strange little girl, known as Alma, are some creepiest moments that have 
 ever been done in video games. And just when you think everything is calmed down, you'll walk into 
 a room full of bodies, right after Alma appears. She will mess with your head, constantly. 
  
  But F. E. A. R. isn't all scares, there are a lot of moments that feel like they came straight 
 out of a big blockbuster action movie. The reason why? F. E. A. R. has probably the most impressively 
 smart opponents in a game to date. For example, say run into a group of clones, it's not as easy 
 to just run though shot them all, with them just trying to run away and that's it, no, they will 
 plan attacks against you, move book shelves down for cover, and use grenades to get you out of 
 cover. They won't go down without a good fight. There's also another movie quality feature in the 
 game. You have the ability to slow down time for a super focus effect. This makes combat even more 
 exciting and intense.
  
  Speaking of the opponents you'll face in the game, is kind of disappointing. For the most of the 
 game, you'll be fighting clone soldiers. Every once in a while a different enemy appears, but no 
 very often. And that's not the only problem the game has with repetitiveness. Most of the game 
 you'll be fighting in an abandoned office, or a construction site. The game hardly ever leaves 
 these environments. And for the bonus mission that explains one extra part of the game, is very 
 disappointing. 
  
  But the game comes with more than that. It comes with a very fast-paced, well done multiplayer. 
 It has some of the basic game mode, like Deathmatch, Team Deathmatch, Capture the Flag and last 
 man standing. But F. E. A. R. also has a version of these games. There are SlowMo game types for every 
 multiplayer game mode except last man standing. And these are very exciting game mode. SlowMo is 
 the same as slowing down time for intense focus as seen in the main game. Except SlowMo is a power 
 up that has to charge up, and only one player can have it at a time. This can make for some very 
 exciting games. 
  
  There is also another very fun mode called Instant Action. The game type lets you select a part 
 of a level from the main game, and time you to take out all the enemies in the given area. After 
 your done, it will load your time to the leaderboards, and then check your rank. It's basically 
 a time trials mode, made for a shooter.
  
  Overall F. E. A. R. is a very good game. Great gameplay, intense action, creepy moments, smart enemy 
 A. I., and fast-paced multiplayer make up a very impressive game. Though the game does have it's 
 problems, they're easy to forgive. So if you are a fan of FPS, or horror, or both, get ready for 
 a unforgettable experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bacchus2
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 29, 2008 3:49 am PT
Review:  Foreword : Please note that this review is for the single player portion only.
  
  F. E. A. R. puts you in the shoes (or combat boots) of a soldier on his first real mission. The F. E. A. R 
 squad investigates supernatural activity, and something is afoot. A man by the name of Paxton Fettel 
 has exhibited his paranormal abilities by commanding a cloned army to do his bidding. Without spoiling 
 too much, your task is to explore various buildings controlled by the Replica forces in an attempt 
 to take down Fettel. The story is woven into the action, with you receiving updates from command 
 via your commlink. You will meet some other members of the F. E. A. R. squad, and a few other individuals 
 wrapped up in the story. Your interaction with them is usually brief and you won't be fighting 
 alongside your comrades, but they serve the story well enough.
  
  The meat of any first person shooter is of course the combat, and F. E. A. R. offers very little to 
 complain about. The guns all feel like they have weight, and while you may find yourself with preferences 
 (you can carry 3 weapons at a time) none of them feel decidedly worse than the others. Most of 
 them are grounded in reality, with submachine guns, a shotgun and assault rifles, there are a few 
 that push the boundaries of realism without being silly, such as a particle weapon that fries most 
 enemies with a single shot. Everything from the sound to kickback to their efficiency at making 
 mince meat of your enemies makes them all feel powerful.
  
  Regular Replica forces aren't without the same weapons though, and can rip you to shreds in short 
 order if you aren't careful. Most impressive about the soldiers is their behaviour both individually 
 and as a group. If a squad catches sight of you and they are holed up in a nice position, you can't 
 just stand around the corner and wait for them to chase you one by one; they will stand their ground 
 and wait for you. If they have a reasonable idea of where you are, they will throw a grenade in 
 your direction. They will run from cover to cover, and their movements never seem predictable. 
 If there are multiple paths, they can and will try to flank you. If it makes sense for them to 
 do so, they will jump over a desk to hide behind it, or jump through a window to get to you. If 
 you decimate a squad, the final member is likely to run from you blind firing back at you as he 
 panics. All of this is backed up by great radio chatter as they co-ordinate with each other. It 
 probably isn't realistic to yell all this stuff out, but it does get the point across that they 
 are working like a squad.
  
  Walking into a room full of soldiers is likely to get you killed pretty quickly, so you will have 
 to exercise a few tricks up your sleeve. Using the D-Pad left and right, you can lean to either 
 side, and release to stand straight again. This is great for peeking around corners, and also for 
 popping off a quick burst before getting back behind cover. As the point man of the squad, you 
 have some insane reflexes, and you can activate a slow-mo mode. A guage shows how much you have 
 left, and it slowly restores when not in use. On the one hand this can make combat a little easy, 
 but without it combat can be fast, furious, and tough when facing multiple enemies. You will likely 
 come to rely on it, and popping around a corner in slow mo and blasting a couple of Replica soldiers 
 in the face with a shotgun before they can return fire is something that never gets old. If you 
 jump and then melee you also do a jumping kick that takes down most regular enemies in one shot. 
 The fact that there is no regenerating health means you will want to make the most of all your 
 combat maneuvers. You can hold up to 10 health packs which restore some of your life, and you can 
 also pick up Health Boosters and Reflex Boosters to increase your maximum health and slow mo respectively.
 
  
  There are some other enemies, some humanoid and some mechanical, that you will encounter. These 
 don't feel as engaging as playing cat and mouse with the regular soldiers, but adds to the variety. 
 As you progress the game offers some paranormal moments, as if someone is trying to project thoughts 
 into your mind. The screen flickers and you may find yourself somewhere else, in slow motion with 
 your vision blurred, or visions will appear in front of you while someone whispers in the background. 
 These work well in telling the story, but don't feel particularly scary. After the first few it 
 becomes apparent that they are hardly ever threatening. There are still some standout moments where 
 the game creeps you out, or has you jump out of your seat at an unexpected event, but isn't quite 
 on par with the likes of Condemned.
  
  The environments are usually stark buildings, and you will often have to employ your flashlight 
 to get a good look at your surroundings. Sadly it employs the tired convention of flashlights that 
 only last 30 seconds, which usually only serves to have you stop every so often in a safe spot, 
 turn off your torch until it recharges, turn it on again and keep moving. Enemies are smart enough 
 to see your torch though, so you will have to limit its use if you want to sneak up on your foes. 
 You will travel mostly through secure office complexes, with some forays onto some rooftops, a 
 multilevel carpark and a few other locations. There are a few minor puzzle elements where you may 
 have to turn off gas valves after an explosion to progress for example, and these are nice diversions 
 and break up the pace nicely while complementing the level design. While locations seem very similar, 
 there is enough variation in the layouts to make the combat feel fresh each time to show off the 
 squad combat. Graphically the game is decent. Environment textures don't seem detailed, but it 
 works in making the levels seem stark. Enemy, character and gun models all look fine, but shadows 
 can be inconsistent. At times there are soft shadows but sometimes (with your own shadow in particular) 
 it's solid black or nothing. Smoke and dust is often kicked up by bullet sprays, and by todays 
 standards the effect is dated. While you will notice them, none of these things get in the way 
 of having a good time with the game.
  
  As mentioned the game can be easy because of the slow-mo, and my playthrough was on Medium. As 
 such I did attempt to bonus mission on Hard, but you don't have slow-mo in this level, and I found 
 the going without it tough enough that I restarted it on Medium. Those looking for a challenge 
 could try playing the entire game without it. Should you fall to your death, forget to use your 
 health packs or run out of them (which is unlikely to occur) , you will start from your nearest 
 checkpoint. There are usually 3 or 4 in each level, and could be a few minutes from your point 
 of death. Thus there is some punishment for death, but it is not too severe. I did run into a game 
 breaking glitch in the bonus mission, where the person I was escorting would not move. I did not 
 repeat the mission to see if it was a one-time glitch, but the main portion of the game had no 
 such glitches.
  
  Overall F. E. A. R. has a very gritty dark feel that permeates the whole game, from the dim environments, 
 to the subject matter, to the visceral bloody combat. While it's not without flaws, it's refreshing 
 to see AI that seems to mimic actual behaviour instead of simply being the most efficient. While 
 some of the graphics have dated slightly from a technical standpoint, the consistent style still 
 holds up well. F. E. A. R. is a solid shooter that is at least worth a rental. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pelm
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 10, 2008 1:31 pm PT
Review:  F. E. A. R. does a lot of things well it has a good plot, an array of awesome weapons, and cool looking 
 environments but by far the best thing that fear does well is giving you unique slo-motion bullet 
 time abilties it really makes the shooting very thrilling and shows off a spectacular display. 
 it also does some things bad like sometimes its too dark to see, the flashlight's lifespan is very 
 short and some of the elite enemy soldiers are hard to kill. 
  
  But with all that aside fear does a very good job of keeping you feeling and thinking that there's 
 no o0ne around and that the elite enemy soldiers are never there when your going through the buildings 
 it starts to creep you out. F. E. A. R. implements everything driving it forward pushing it to its 
 maximum limit giving you the real deal and delivers on a fulfilling and very satisfying fps. It 
 HAS all the right key elements , it HAS all the right innovations and new unique innovations that 
 will live on as the fps that did it's part to make gaming that much better, broader and bigger.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: thefencemarv
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 6, 2008 3:12 pm PT
Review:  This game is creepy, scary, and intense. There are some awesome weapons and usually enough ammo 
 to keep you killing late into the night. The difficulty settings allow players with average FPS 
 skills to stay in the game. That is a definite plus for me as I am not an expert at shooters. 
 
  
  The story is engaging. A definite mystery. How do you stop the leader of the up risen clone soldiers? 
 Can he be stopped? Who or what is the little girl? And why do people end up as spots of blood and 
 goo whenever she comes around? Why do I have out of body experiences or hallucinations? Could I 
 be a clone?
  
  All these questions and more may cross your mind as you play. Will there be answers? I sure hope 
 so. I am three quarters through the game and only have clues. No real answers. I am so wrapped 
 up in the story and greatly enjoying the action that I can hardly put it down to play something 
 else (Fallout 3 is the other one I can't seem to put down currently) .
  
  This game may not rate a nine point five for lots of shooter fans, but I have to rate it nine or 
 higher if I can't put it down for Fallout 3.
  
  Bottom line, I recommend it to shooter fans and non shooter fans alike. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: owl_of_minerva
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 1, 2008 4:00 pm PT
Review:  F. E. A. R. is at its core a polished and creepy horror-themed shooter. One thing that is immediately 
 evident is the excellent use of sound design and visual tricks to create a sense of existential 
 isolation. The sounds you make as you explore the environment seem to ring out in a void, alerting 
 enemies to your presence or subtly heightening the tension. Combined with the off lighting and 
 you have one creepy game. FEAR has great buildup to its horror sequences which I noted were especially 
 effective in the beginning of the game. To me the atmosphere is somewhat akin to Penumbra -- the 
 moody lighting, industrial level design, sound effects and claustrophobia. F. E. A. R.'s design relies 
 on set-pieces to instill dread and suspense which will be familiar to anyone who has played Half-Life. 
 Unfortunately the game feels very static even when this design style works. Instead of the organic 
 terror of say Silent Hill you become inured to the jump scares. Used often enough the trick loses 
 its effectiveness.
  As for the gameplay, not too much needs to be said. I haven't really played any Sierra games since 
 Half-Life: Opposing Force but not much has changed. Namely you have to fight squads of intelligent, 
 well-armed opponents skilled at working as a team. Added to the mix is bullet time; it's trite 
 and overused and FEAR has nothing new to offer. The slo-mo effect slows the gameplay down too much 
 and is boring rather than thrilling. To me bullet time is much cooler in third-person than first.
 
  Compounding the unsatisfactory nature of the combat are poor 360 controls. I found it extremely 
 difficult to lean using the 1st-party controller without either switching through my grenades [switching 
 to the remote mine is particularly frustrating because you unequip your gun] or alerting enemies 
 to my presence with the flashlight. The aim was also fairly stiff. Compared to a game optimised 
 for the console like Resident Evil 4 it doesn't feel *right*.
  Now while the aesthetic and sound effects were excellent, FEAR is ultimately a mixed bag in terms 
 of design. Although on the whole I was favourably impressed, to be stuck in the same industrial 
 wasteland or decaying urban environment yet again is depressing. The received wisdom amongst game 
 designers seem to be that creepy or violent games must come in one standardised "decayed postmodern 
 industrial" package. Against this I need only refer to the art nouveau design of Bioshock which 
 remains creepy despite being colourful and stylised. Midway through the game FEAR seems to lose 
 its way, becoming no more than moving from one helicopter pickup to the next or chasing after some 
 of the most foolhardy civilians I have ever seen. The scary moments are less, replaced by the same 
 well-done yet standard fps gameplay. In addition, the ending is too easy and a serious anticlimax. 
 There isn't much story anyway, but at least games like Half-Life had a sense of depth beyond what 
 was being shown. In the end, like the phantoms which populate it, FEAR is not substantive or deep 
 enough, let down by its execution. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: grubes26
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 24, 2008 6:59 pm PT
Review:  The reason I even purchased this game is because a lot of my friends said it was just amazing and 
 that they were glad to buy it, but personally for me, this game just kind of got boring after about 
 six missions. Every level is basically the same thing throughout the whole game, each environment 
 changes just a little bit, and the graphics aren't that great. For the enemies, there were only 
 a few times that you wouldn't know that they were there because if you got close enough to them, 
 they said something to another one on the radio so before you come around that corner, no big surprise 
 to find the enemy standing there. And about the little scenes with Alma, those I will admit can 
 get a little spooky, especially if you are playing the game in the dark. I had one body that played 
 the game for almost eight hours then according to him, "in a dark room she pops out and scares 
 the **** out of you," now I haven't experienced that yet, lol. But overall with this game, I've 
 just been really disappointed, didn't have a lot of action and every level seemed the same. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SabotFox
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 3, 2008 1:41 am PT
Review:  F. E. A. R is a first-person shooter cut from the cloth of run, shoot, and run some more and occasionally 
 trying to puzzle out how to open doors. Mixed with a rather bland story, F. E. A. R ultimately becomes 
 a rather lackluster game. Over the course of the game, you run into a small assortment of enemies 
 and traipse about through environments that look surprisingly similar. The game could have benefited 
 greatly from a mini-map, especially when you're poking about through an office building with cubicle 
 upon cubicle-filled room. 
  
  Although the game has a number of different weapons you can pick up  the regular assortment of 
 pistols, shotguns, assault rifles, and grenade launchers, plus an over-the-top particle weapon 
 that can strip the flesh right off your opponent's skeleton  you are restricted to carrying only 
 three at a time. (Although if you're dual wielding the weapons, they only count as one.) The F. E. A. R 
 agent you play as is described as having "reflexes that are off-the-charts" made evident by a reflex 
 meter that slows the action in the game down, allowing you to evade enemy fire or direct fire to 
 multiple opponents at once. You can find power ups scattered about that offer health upgrades and 
 increases to the reflex meter, but your body armor rating will only raise up to 100%.
  
  As mentioned, the story is rather bland. F. E. A. R is a government-organization designed to be the 
 first-response to any paranormal activity. Unfortunately, Sierra seems to use this premise more 
 for cheap scare tactics than any real supernatural plot. Okay, so some eggheads whipped up a bunch 
 of clone soldiers that are controlled by a psychic commander and now that commander's gone ballistic 
 and is killing everyone involved with the company. Shortly after responding, the agent you play 
 as starts experiencing odd visions of the commander wandering about, plus a creepy little girl 
 with a pyromania complex. Mix that up with the good old creepies such as cans and ceiling tiles 
 leaping about, doors slamming shut in your face, and F. E. A. R can give a couple of good shivers. 
 
  
  Unfortunately, these odd moments of "boo juice" are interspersed with so much running and shooting 
 that they fail to give a good jolt other spook games like Fatal Frame or even Doom III could deliver. 
 If anything, the paranormal events almost feel tagged on for good measure. Overall, the story fails 
 to deliver in the end, and the "bonus mission" is merely a romp through one of the same levels 
 you just played, but seen through the eyes of a minor character escorting a hostage out of the 
 building. The agent doesn't have the reflexes your agent does, which makes it a bit more challenging, 
 but since the main campaign lets you know the fate of the hostage and this mission doesn't hint 
 at anything different, it's pretty worthless.
  
  Graphically, the game is dull. The weapons look cool, sure, but the levels look cut from the same 
 cloth, and there's not a whole lot of distinction between areas in the same level. You can get 
 a good look at the surrounding area when you're on rooftops or near windows, but the backgrounds 
 look flat and uninteresting. The last area is probably the best looking in the game, which is odd 
 since you spend the majority of it racing away from it. There are a small variety of enemies in 
 the game, and they all look the same. Oh wait, they're mostly clones, so I guess they're supposed 
 to. However, even your fellow F. E. A. R agents and the ATC security goons have one model, so don't 
 be surprised if you accidentally fire on a few allies. (It doesn't matter; there's no friendly 
 fire and Sierra doesn't even give you the option to waste hostages like you could in Half-Life.)
 
  
  This wasn't as impressive as I was hoping.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheDarkChainsaw
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 2, 2008 12:36 pm PT
Review:  The first time I played FEAR a friend had brought it over to my house. I have to admit I was sceptical 
 about it being scary at first, but then the terror started near the end of the first level, and 
 left me jumping for... one level. until the end of Interval 2. Of course, the game does get scary 
 again by around Interval 8 or 9 (out of 11) , but it's pretty much a good shooter with crappy graphics 
 in between. Sure, it has the original slow motion element, but you still, on top of sitting through 
 the bad graphics, you have to fight the same through enemies, and worse, backtrack through them, 
 the entire game. I'd say it's worth a play through, and playing the last two missions never get 
 old.
  Pros:
  The Slow Motion Element really makes the game easier in tight situations/Interesting story that 
 will keep you guessing
  
  Cons:
  Backtracking/Only half of the game is scary/Multiplayer SUCKS!/
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Draylorn
Rating: 2
Date: Oct 18, 2008 10:56 pm PT
Review:  Man, what were you people thinking? Let's put it this way: I was currently playing Condemned when 
 I picked this up. Just by comparison, FEAR was boring. But let's get to the meat of my criticism:
 
  
  Story: This part is just dumb. I won't even waste my time. D-list movie script at best. At worst, 
 Sci-Fi Channel Original. (Lol!)
  
  Graphics: Boring. The environments are bland, being mostly industrial buildings. The enemies are 
 all boring soldiers. I haven't felt this bored about a game's graphics since Wolfenstien 3d. (Wolfenstien 
 was still great, mind you.) Nothing stands out.
  
  Horror Aspect: Blood - check. Scary little girl - check There ain't much beyond that. The so-called 
 horror I winessed came in cinematic doses between soldier shooting segments, and consisted of sequences 
 that would embarrass 'The Ring'. I can honestly say I did not even once get the sensation of fear, 
 the discomfort associated with going around the next corner - nothing.
  
  Action: Jeezus. This feels like playing a Ghost Recon game - only you're alone, and all your enemies 
 are dumb as rocks. Oh, and you have Matrix slo-mo powers?! The bullet time doesn't even serve a 
 purpose, since you can't really dodge any of the bullets effectively. It's more like an extra few 
 seconds for noobs to aim, or take cover.
  
  I don't know what else to say. I got bored and returned this trash. I kept Condemned and beat it, 
 and felt good about doing so. I still don't get what all the 8/9/10 scores are about. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rat117
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 16, 2008 9:14 am PT
Review:  fear is a good gamefear ifear is a good games a good gafear is a good gamemefear is a good gamefear 
 is a good fear is a good gamegamefear is a good gamefear fear is fear is a good gamea good gameis 
 afear is a good gamefear isfear is a good game a good game good gamefear isfear is a good game 
 a good gamefear is a good gamfear is a good gameefear ifear is a good games a good gamefear is 
 afear is a good game goofear is a good gamed gamefear is a good gamefear is a good fear is a good 
 gamegamfear is a good gameefear is a good gamefear is a goodfear is a gfear is a good gameood fear 
 is a good gamegame gamefear isfear is a good game a fear is a good gamefearfear is a good game 
 is a good gamegood gfear is a good fear is a good gamegameamefear is a good fear is a good gamegamefear 
 is a fear is a good fear is a good gamegamegood gamefear is fear fear is a good gamefear is a good 
 gameis a good gamea good amefear is a good gamefear isfear is afear is a good game good game a 
 good gamefear is a good gamefear is a good game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gilarayach
Rating: 5
Date: Oct 9, 2008 4:45 pm PT
Review:  The game environment is repetitive, after a while you get bored. Some times when you drop the shotgun 
 it starts to jump and sound weird. You just know when something is going to happen because of the 
 music changes or soldiers talking. The worst part are the checkpoints, sometimes you have to wait 
 a long time to get to one of those, sometimes happen too often, with no logical reason. In my specific 
 case the game saved a checkpoint just before I was killed, and entered a cycle starting at my dead 
 scene over and over and over... This was at the interval 8 of 11, and I had no choice besides start 
 from the first interval, which obviously I didn't do. In my opinion, this schema of saving the 
 current state of your advance is a BIG bug. I just don't understand why they didn't added an option 
 to at least start the current interval where you are, instead of try to make you start from the 
 first one. After this experience I will NOT buy anything related to XBOX 360 FEAR in the future. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DGDFDGFBBYT
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 7, 2008 12:56 pm PT
Review:  Positive Opinion + Incredibly kinetic action and visually intense firefights creepy psychological 
 horror instant-action mode lets you compare your best scores online frenetic multiplayer mode. 
 
  
  
  
  Negative Opinion - Complex control scheme is a bit clumsy on the gamepad "bonus" mission isn't 
 much of a bonus. 
  
  
  Gameplay 86 % :F. E. A. R. works because it elevates first-person-shooter combat to cinematic levels. 
 Playing F. E. A. R. is like battling through a John Woo movie, because when firefights occur in this 
 game, they're downright glorious. Bullets tear chunks out of concrete and wood; blinding clouds 
 of dust and debris fill the air; bodies are torn apart or slump on the ground; and the deathly 
 silence of the aftermath contrasts so sharply with the sheer chaos that erupted only moments before. 
 Gunfights in F. E. A. R. just feel right. This is partly because the weapons you have in the game 
 feel the way weapons should -- powerful. You have the standard array of guns to play around with, 
 including a pistol, submachine gun, assault rifle, shotgun, and rocket launcher. There's also a 
 scoped, burst-firing rifle that's a dead ringer for the Master Chief's battle rifle in Halo 2; 
 an incredibly nasty particle weapon that sears the flesh off of opponents; and a few other special 
 toys. 
  
  Graphics 80 % The graphics for this game aren`t the best for the 360 but its fine.
  
  Sound 
 86 % This game has good music and scary sounds try to play this game at night you`ll see thats 
 its very scary.
  
  Overall 85 % : This omnipresent tension combined with the outstanding combat make F. E. A. R. an immersive 
 game, even if it leaves you a bit emotionally exhausted after a while. And as much as we enjoyed 
 the game's atmosphere, we were a bit disappointed by the plot. Rest assured that F. E. A. R. features 
 a complete story and an ending. The trouble is that it seems as if several plotlines lack some 
 kind of satisfactory payoff for all your trouble, so the game's a bit of a letdown in this aspect. 
 The end level is also disappointing because it's surprisingly easy, especially compared to what 
 you've experienced to get to that point. Thankfully, F. E. A. R. does end on a spectacular note, though 
 we won't spoil it for you. 
  
  Value :F. E. A. R. is quite easily one of the most intense and atmospheric games on the Xbox 360, 
 and it's an excellent blend of horror and action. F. E. A. R. features some of the best gunplay available 
 in a first-person shooter. This alone makes it an incredibly intense game that must be experienced. 
 The fact that it's also one of the creepiest games ever made is just icing on the cake. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: LooneyCass1
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 2, 2008 6:36 pm PT
Review:  F. E. A. R., First Encounter Assault Recon, is the freakiest game I have ever seen. So it's done part 
 of its job well, but scaring me is not the only thing that I love about this game, it's also its 
 game play. 
  F. E. A. R gives you a wide variety of weapons which. You can even dual wield some of them. The game 
 also has this special bullet time which gives you the ability to slow down time and have the chance 
 to dodge bullets, kill enemies faster, and other stuff. It also makes the fighting more epic. 
 
  F. E. A. R also has a great storyline. You are a newcomer in the organization that investigates paranormal 
 activity called First Encounter Assault Recon, F. E. A. R for short (hence the name of the game) . 
 You exceed expectations in training, so they put you on a mission to get Paxton Fettel. A man who 
 what seems to be crazy, and knows more about you (the character) than any other person. The rest 
 I leave to you.
  So, at night, turn off all the lights, get completely alone, and I promise that this game will 
 get you terrified. That's what it did to me. I'm now scared of little girls.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: H0rr0rG4m3r
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 30, 2008 3:41 am PT
Review:  F. E. A. R. (First Encounter Assault Recon) is a Horror FPS game available on xbox 360, ps3 and pc. 
 This game has lots of action with lots of weapons to choose from like assault rifles, shotguns, 
 pistols, sniper rifles and many more. The horror elements in this are very scary with Alma (the 
 B***h) sometimes jumping out of no where or sometimes she just freaks you out, anyways, shes a 
 creepy little girl but she has another form, her older form. Other scares are from enemies that 
 come out of no where and this guy called Patton Fextel who comes out of no where too and sometimes 
 dead bodies falling from an above balcony. There are also wierd, freaky visions you have during 
 the course of the game. So now you know why that if you haven't played this game yet and you were 
 wondering why everbody got scared of this game (including me) is because theres so many horror scenes 
 in this game but same amount of action too. F. E. A. R. is one of the best horror FPS I've played 
 in a long time. At LEAST a rent but otherwise if you have a xbox 360 or a ps3 or a pc BUY IT! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Biohazard080608
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 26, 2008 9:07 am PT
Review:  The stages should be longer, have more guns and bigger stages. Other then that it was a good game 
 to play hope they come up with a big and better game. They should have more new things to fight 
 and have so snipers in the game. They should think about putting in some more fire power in to 
 the game. They should have made some of your men come and fight with you at less 1 or 2. But you 
 shoudl at less try it out. It is fun game to play at night when you are all by your self. The blood 
 made it a fun game to run around with a shotgun. So you can witch there blood splatter ever where 
 when you shot them. So go out and run around with a shotgun and blow some heads off. Dont plan 
 on taking to long because the stages are short and not to hard in less it is your first time playing. 
 One more thing go out and tell a friend to come and play, it is better to have some one to play 
 with you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: netgameboy
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 18, 2008 11:44 am PT
Review:  Ok, scary, tactical, surprising, great story. It's hard to say what this game doesn't have. And 
 if you've seen any George Lucas interviews, he is obsessed with perfect sound. Well George, the 
 shotgun sound in this game has to be the best I've ever heard in any game. Onto Alma. What can 
 we say about Alma that hasn't already been said? There are Alma groups, Alma clans, there's probably 
 even an Alma Halloween costume somewhere. People reading this who have never played FEAR must b 
 thinking I'm a little overboard with my review of this game. All I can say is, play it. If you're 
 not totally drawn in to this unravelling mystery in the first 15 minutes then this is just not 
 your game. For those of you who know, most of these sentences you know, to support how great FEAR 
 is, need not to really even b here. I just wanted to post to ensure, anyone stopping by to check 
 out this game now that Project Origin is soon arriving. It is more than worth your time to go back 
 and check out how the story all began. Alma, her sons, her whole family, will take you for the 
 ride of your life. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Atreyu606
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 16, 2008 8:45 pm PT
Review:  I find F. E. A. R. amazing cause it has everything that I like all in one. Horror, FPS, Gore, Creepy 
 ass little girls, and action sequences that just make me say "DAAAAAMN". This game is trully creepy, 
 and will scare the crap out of you at times. It also has that awesome action and when you go into 
 slomo and wipe out the whole squad before they even have a chance to react, always makes you feel 
 like a complete badass. I love this game, I love the scares, I love the action, and I love the 
 slomo. If you've played this game and loved it, pick up F. E. A. R. Files as well, it gives you another 
 10-20 hours of gameplay, will clearify some of your answers, and get you pumped for F. E. A. R. 2: 
 Project Origin!! If your a fan of FPS's, and Horror, than you would be a fool to pass this game 
 up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scarface46
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 13, 2008 7:38 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay:6
  Graphics: 7
  Sound: 7
  Value: 6
  Tilt: 7
  
  F. E. A. R is a horror themed modern first person shooter, that gets extremely boring and repetitive 
 half way into the campaign. A Genetically engineered psychic named Paxton Fettel takes command 
 of a battalion of telepathically-controlled super soldiers. You will play as a solider part of 
 F. E. A. R, First Encounter Assault Recon, a special forces group specialized in dealing with paranormal 
 threats to national security. The story is quite hard to understand, as the rest of the story is 
 explained through voice mails left on telephones around the levels. As for the levels, they are 
 all dark and gloomy, which will make you want to fall asleep. You will go through mostly offices 
 and warehouses with the same designs from previous levels and with repetitive/unsatisfying fights. 
 The horror in the game, isn't all that great. All you will see is a little girl in a red dress 
 slowly walking in front of you and also a guy who first talks for a little and then quickly disappears. 
 As for the graphics, it may of been alright for 2005, however, for 2008 it is disgusting, especially 
 for a 360 game. The audio on the other hand, is fine, nothing special though. Furthermore, the 
 multilayer is finished, it is a ghost town, probably less than 20 people play online. Overall, 
 F. E. A. R is one of the worst 360 games I have played so far, I would not recommend it if you haven't 
 played it already. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jimmy_jojohn
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 8, 2008 8:01 am PT
Review:  F. E. A. R. is supposed to be a creepy action game that delivers very little creepiness. However, 
 the action more than makes up for it. In this game your a new recruit who is supposed to find and 
 neutralize an individual who has taken control of a clone army. No spoilers here. Slowly, the story 
 begins to unravel. Just make sure you pay attention to everything being said throughout the game. 
 The A. I. in this game is super cool. Before you know it, the enemy is trying to suppress you with 
 gunfire, while others try to flank you. They also make good use of cover, as well. There are several 
 weapons to choose from, but you can only carry a few, so make sure you carry shotgun and a machine 
 gun. Carrying only cannons and rocket launchers might become a problem because of ammo; although 
 they are VERY useful a times. The game has decent graphics and great gameplay. Some might say that 
 the controls are a bit clumsy, but it is just a matter of getting used to them. The firefights 
 might get intense, so make sure and find cover. There are several types of enemies, from clones 
 to automated turrets to robots to Samurai clones. While the gameplay is fun, the environments can 
 get a little repetitive. Another drawback is the lack of in-game save. The game saves through a 
 series of some-what frequent check points; but sometimes you might have to experience the same 
 battle a couple of times. Overall, it is a great action game that should be picked up by anyone 
 wanting good firefights and often. If you're expecting a very creepy game, don't. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Trooperdx3117
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 6, 2008 1:26 pm PT
Review:  Im underground in some old sewers, my entire squad has been wiped out by something unknown and 
 im rushing to get out of the sewers to meet up with the second squad of soldiers. Its pitch black 
 and my only source of illumination is my little flashlight. I see an opening in the tunnel and 
 think that might be the way out, wrong its just a dead end when suddenly I hear laughing. I turn 
 around freaked out just in time to see something red disappear behind a crate I cautiously approach 
 the crate and round the corner to find nothing more than a wall. Now totally freaked out I run 
 as fast as I can out of the sewers. Its moments like this that make F. E. A. R. a special experience. 
 Its just a shame that these moments dont continue on throughout the game. At first it seems that 
 the dev team have all these fresh ideas for scaring players and they work with horrific hallucinations 
 and creepy little girls, its just a shame it peters out in the mid-section with few even attempts 
 at scares and those few attempts arent really that scary or even creepy. This isnt helped by the 
 incredibly generic enviroments, an old abandoned water-works, an abandoned office block, an abandoned 
 apartment block and an abandoned research lab. Notice trend developing here. This is further heightened 
 by the disturbingly dated graphics, despite being only three years old this game has not held up 
 well and you will almost definitely question how anyone could have ever thought this game looks 
 good, you just need to see the helicopter interior scenes to see how badly this game has dated 
 graphicaly. However this is made up for by the intense firefights that you will encounter in the 
 middle section. In one section you come to some sort of lobby area when suddenly you're ambushed 
 by waves of enemy's an youre only hope of survival is liberal use of the awesome slo-mo feature 
 and expending more ammunition than every action movie ever made and using your kung fu moves to 
 knock out the legs under enemys and get behind cover. By the time your finished your practically 
 knee deep in dead enemy's with splattered everywhere and you practically cant see with all the 
 dust thats been kicked up. Of course dont take this to mean that the AI is dumb in fact they will 
 actively seek cover, suppress you, flush you out and flank you. Again its moments like this that 
 make F. E. A. R. really stand out. However once again these sections really peter out by the end with 
 most enemys armed with ridiculous one hit one kill weapons which means you can have full armour 
 and full health only for you to die in one second, fun this is not. Although this is partially 
 made up for by fighting security guards who have strange infinity to constantly exploding when 
 you shoot them with a shotgun. These later shoot out shortcomings are partially made up for by 
 re-emergence of story moments which are quiet well handled in the later sections. Unfortunately 
 in the mid-sections the only story elements you learn of are taken off copmuters and phone messages 
 which is unfortunate because it is almost impossible to hear the information which is made more 
 troubling by the lack of subtitle support. It is also unfortunate that in general the mid-section 
 area is quiet tedious with numerous identical shoot-outs in identical hallways fortunatley they 
 can be finished incredibly quickly with liberal use of the shotgun which is never short of ammunition.
 
  So in conclusion if you enjoy first person shooters and the only occasional creep out moment and 
 are willing to look over dated graphics and overly dark shadows then check this out you might just 
 enjoy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FelisLeo1980
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 31, 2008 1:27 am PT
Review:  F. E. A. R. is a horror themed first person shooter, which has impressive particle effects and an 
 extremely boring level design combined with an awful save system.
  
  Story is presented in such a way that most of it is told via laptop computers and voice messages 
 you'll find throughout the game. The problem is that if you don't find enough of these there's 
 a good chance that you'll miss parts of the story. It doesn't help much either that the volume 
 level of voices are way too low and there's no option to turn on subtitles.
  
  A genetically engineered psychic named Paxton Fettel takes command of a battalion of telepathically-controlled 
 super soldiers after hearing voices in his head accompanied by visions of a young girl in red dress. 
 You play as a point man in First Encounter Assault Recon, a special forces group specialized in 
 dealing with paranormal threats to national security. Your job is of course to stop Paxton Fettel.
 
  
  Graphics were amazing in 2005 and they still look good in 2008. Particle effects and bullets flying 
 near your head is an impressive thing to see, but after a few hours it starts to feel a bit boring. 
 Colors are boring, because the game mostly takes place in dark areas. Luckily you can use the flashlight 
 and a gun at the same time, but still the constant darkness gets irritating after a while. Also 
 the frame rate takes a hit every now and then.
  
  Sound design is trying to be scary by making the amount of music very limited. Usually it doesn't 
 work, although it does manage to give you a few chills along the way of your 7 to 8 hour experience. 
 Sound effects are appropriately done and the sound of gun fire is satisfying.
  
  Best aspect in F. E. A. R. are the tight controls and guns. Your character moves just like you would 
 expect and shooting with different guns works great.
  
  Level design is extremely boring: all you do is run in a bunch of warehouses and office buildings. 
 Combine this with far too little story elements and repetitive combat and you got yourself a game 
 that playing it may feel like you're in a job, not having fun.
  
  When you're low on health it regenerates a bit, but most of the time you are collecting Med Kits 
 scattered throughout the levels. Luckily you can have 10 of them and use it when you need to. This 
 brings us to the save system, which uses checkpoints. Unfortunately those checkpoints are way too 
 few and far between and there's no option to save manually anywhere anytime. Since the story, environments 
 or the gameplay itself are not that interesting it may take a little too much determination to 
 play a long sequence all over again just because the designers were lazy and didn't put enough 
 checkpoints in the game.
  
  Multiplayer is a familiar deal with Deathmatches, Capture the Flag and so on. All the action happens 
 in those same boring environments as the single player campaign did. Maps are way too dark and 
 labyrinth-like. Best guns are scattered throughout the field so the one who rushes first to them 
 is also usually the winner. The biggest source of frustration in multiplayer is the darkness, because 
 in order to survive it's best to stay hidden for as long as you can. This means that you can't 
 use the flashlight at all and it's just irritating not to be able to see ahead of you.
  
  Maybe F. E. A. R. was a great game in 2005, but in 2008 it's just boring, irritating and way too dark. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: danielk711
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 12, 2008 7:35 am PT
Review:  This game is full of action and intesnse combat.
  The girl reli freaks me owt tho!!!
  sum bits r very scarey nd i wudnt reccomend some1 under the age of 10 buying it .. it would give 
 them nightmares!!
  It has 11 intervals and all of them are action packed.
  The combat never gets boring, the weapons never get old, and there are always more than 1 different 
 ways you can deal with the situatuion you;'re in. The enemys are very clever and wil react to the 
 noise you make and you're flashlight so you should only use it when u realy need 2. The weapons 
 are amazing, use them accordingly to the enemy youre dealing with. The bonus mission isn't that 
 good but it's quite fun to play. The game would be made better if you could drive a vehicle or 
 a mission where you are in a vehicle shooting from it. it has alot of suspense and sometimes you 
 jave to be patient and workout your route.
  Great game!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jdc1394
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 26, 2008 9:58 pm PT
Review:  FEAR was hailed by many critics as one of the greatest PC games of 2005. Unfortunately console 
 gamers were sad that it was not on a system. 
  Then in October of 2006 FEAR was released on the XBOX 360. I for one could not wait to play it. 
 
  When I popped the game into my 360 and selected new game I was in for an FPS unlike anything else.
 
  In FEAR you play as the first encounter assault recon's pointman. FEAR is a govenment group that 
 investigates supenatural events. Your latest task is to capture a rogue comander by the name of 
 Paxton Fettle. I don't want to spoil anything else but your in for a ride.
  What make FEAR special is its combination of intense firefights and frighting and disturbing scares. 
 
  Graphics-FEAR looks great on all fronts. All the characters and enemies. look good. They all move 
 realisticly. The environments look nice but the lack variety. You might also see a bland texture 
 or two.
  Gameplay-Excellent to say the least. The enemy AI is unpredictable and aggressive. They wont act 
 the same way twice. Although the Slo-Mo feature is probably one of the coolest aspects of the game. 
 You can slow down time in order to do some Matrix esque stuff.
  Sound-Probably the strongest aspect of FEAR. All the weapons sound good and powerful. The voice 
 acting is well done as well. The sound also helps with making you scared. It creates a creepy atmosphere 
 to the game.
  Value-You might want to come back and play the game over again on the harder difficulties since 
 most of the achievements unlock during the harder difficulties. Their is also multiplayer which 
 is solid. It comes with all the standard modes. Although you wont play the multiplayer for long. 
 Along with the multiplayer FEAR comes with Instant action maps which are essentially shoot up a 
 lot of badguys in a level under a certain amount of time. Your score will be uploaded onto leaderboards 
 where you can compare your score with friends. Although this may sound like a lot it really does 
 not keep you playing FEAR for much more.
  Final Thoughts-FEAR is an excellent shooter that is a blast to play from start to finish. The AI 
 is a fun opponent and the scary atmosphere makes FEAR a buy for anyone who is a fan of the genre. 
 Alma will be waiting for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fightgarr
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 26, 2008 9:21 am PT
Review:  FEAR is a visually intense and well put together shooter but that doesn't stop it from having a 
 bunch of issues which I would like to point out. Before I insult the game at all I would like to 
 say that its visually pleasing, the fire-fights are super-intense, the gameplay (before it repeats 
 itself) is very good and the A. I. are the most intelligent A. I. I've viewed in any shooter.
  Now FEAR is a "horror sci-fi shooter" which is a great genre of games provided they don't pull 
 some retarded **** out of their asses. FEAR, while intense, barely manages to cling to its status 
 of being actually terrifying in any way. It stars one of the Samara Morgan from the ring clones, 
 who does the exact same thing just bloodier, and likes to project her shadow on the wall in front 
 of you. This happens about 50 times a level and thus becomes whole-heartedly predictable and not 
 at all scary.
  Every once in a while you get thrown a small team of men who you think to yourself "these guys 
 might be helpful" of course this is until the game throws in another predictable element in which 
 case you will continuously say: "these guys are f***ed". Any time you get guys they send you off 
 to do some menial task like pull a switch and you come back and they're dead. Any time you have 
 multiple guys, turn your back and that rather non-threatening little girl comes and melts your 
 party into bloody shriveled messes. I know that being alone is part of the "horror" but then just 
 make me alone, don't make yourself insanely predictable with the "team elements".
  This isn't to say that the game has no successful horror elements, every once in a while you get 
 thrown through a brainf***er that leaves you a little scared; like falling into a sewer but the 
 sewer is filled with blood and looks out a window onto that little girl and some tied up guy, while 
 a severed head floats up to the surface, then you're back in a regular sewer looking at a grate 
 and the head is garbage. The problem with theses sequences is that they try and force the horror 
 on you by making your vision tunneled with this red blurriness and then give you slowed and retarded 
 control if not no control over your character. This makes it seem as if they were trying too hard 
 to make something a lot more terrifying then it actually is.
  I also might like the game better if the scenery changed a bit and my character wasn't a speechless 
 sack of crap with unexplained powers and **** but who am I kidding no game is perfect*. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CKY_Hurricane
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 21, 2008 3:21 pm PT
Review:  When i first played FEAR i wasn't sure what to expect. I didn't know if i was going to like it 
 or hate it but after playing it for about an hour i loved it. The slow mo mode is your best friend 
 while fighting mulitple enemies with the difficulity turned up. The hard difficulties pose a true 
 challenge and practically give you two games in one. The Multiplayer is one of the only problem 
 i have with the game. It is kinda boring at time with a few cool tricks here and there but my main 
 problem is all the glitches and the players who use them. Without the glitches and the boring multiplayer 
 i believe this game is one of the best first person shooters on the Xbox 360. The other problem 
 i have is the game doesn't have a brightness adjustment so the game is usually dark.... too dark 
 for my Television which makes for another challenge in itself, to play on a hard difficulty and 
 have problems seeing the enemies. But with all that aside it turns out to be a fun game with scary 
 twists in the story line. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Supaza
Rating: 5
Date: Jul 19, 2008 11:02 am PT
Review:  This game had potential, but fell a long way short of the line. I spent almost the entire game 
 wandering around, bored out of my mind as the levels all looked the same, you always knew when 
 you were about to be attacked, and the combat was so quick and short lived that it was barely noticeable. 
 You spend hours wandering corridors with flickering lights and smashing glass noises only to stumble 
 across 30 seconds of action (which is awesome while it lasts) and then its back to the same dark 
 "spooky" hallways. Multiplayer is fast paced, better than the campaign, but still hardly a match 
 for the rest of the games out at the time. Graphics and sound effects are nothing to rave about, 
 neither is the story. Boring at the most, entertaining once in a blue moon.. . . . ..  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Solid_Max13
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 12, 2008 2:57 pm PT
Review:  It goes without saying F. E. A. R. ( First Encounter Assault Recon) was an amazing game for the PC, 
 it wasn't new in it's genre but it, it's what's inside that makes it such an amazing game, Unfournatly 
 my PC has a crappy setting so I never got a chance to experience the greatness on the PC itself. 
 Until the announcement came that they were bringing it to next-gen consoles (PS3 and Xbox 360) .
 
  
  So as myself i went out and bought it for the 360 and all i can say is.... WOW!! The game mixes 
 many elements of past games, And while one might think that borrowing elements of other games would 
 be a bad idea but in this case not so much. For F. E. A. R. it takes the first person perspective 
 and controls of Half Life, while adding bullet-time and incredible shoot-outs which are remincisent 
 of the Max Payne Series, and the eerie creepy atmosphere we all love in Silent Hill and Resident 
 Evil series, making this an amazing creation and mix for fps and horror genre.
  
  The story is as follows your a new recruit who has fast refelexes and good aiming skills and you 
 are recruited by an team called F. E. A. R. (First Encounter Assault Recon) Who deal in supernatural 
 elements. You are sent in with your team to take out a man named Paxton Feddel who has telepathically 
 taken control of an entire clone army. While sent into the many places you come into contact with 
 a little girl named Alma who will pop in many events when you least expect it and scare the hell 
 out of you., and has strong psychic powers. When you enter the ATC building you find out more behind 
 Alma and Fettels past who they were and who they were to become.
  
  Of course you don't exactly have to go in and do that, slowing down time with your supernatural 
 speed and taking a shotgun out while a soldier yells "WHAT THE F***"" is satisfying enough to just 
 ignore the story and continue on a crazy ramapage. Theres so many moments in the game that mix 
 in so well, with the huge gun fights you come across and the eerie moments you get when Alma is 
 around, are so amazingly fun you'll want to continue the whole process, and the game is by no means 
 short either, it's a good 20-40 hours depending what difficulty and how much time you spend with 
 the story like if you choose to listen to laptops and recorded messages on phones.
  
  So is F. E. A. R. perfect? Hell no!! far from it. But is it fun? Yes it is the game tends to repeat 
 itself a lot, go in shoot kill save someone find objective but it doesn't take away from the atmosphere 
 or fun gameplay mechanics within. If anything they should've worked on the multiplayer. As far 
 as that goes Multiplayer could've been done better which would've made this review get a higher 
 score but hey theres always future installments to look foward to and help tweak the already fun 
 game.
  
  But overall a rich envrioment, scray moments and fun gameplay make this a great addition for any 
 console owner who didn't get to experience this on the PC, it's a worthy buy as now you could probably 
 buy the game for about 20-30$. So if ya haven't tried or are looking for a great game to play rent 
 or buy this one it is sure to become a classic and you can't go wrong!
  
  9/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -HaloHitman-
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 6, 2008 4:14 pm PT
Review:  One of the most disturbing games ever made is on the 360, it is called fear, now if you want to 
 have more detail put into this game you should go to Gamespots' main review of this game. The name 
 FEAR, stands for  this organization is assigned to go out and investigate 
 and control paranormal situations. You are assigned to go get this psycopath general who has escaped 
 and is on a murderous, criminal rampage. In the game you will come across the psycopaths minions, 
 which are kineticly attached to him, there are clone soildiers like you. You fight them with a 
 variety of weapons from shotguns to pistols to machine guns etc., you can slow time to pack a punch 
 when killing guys, and when you shoot at them your bullets leave marks in the walls, leaving a 
 trail of debris, also to make things gorier, when you throw a grenade a the enemy they will blow 
 up with chunks of blood, instead of them just flying around, the shotgun at close range can cut 
 a guy in half which is also neat. The atmosphere gives the word FEAR its meaning, because you will 
 find yourself within creepy enviroments where the lights turn off and you see a person dissapear 
 at the end of the hall. There is also a little demonic girl in a red dress that appears whenever 
 you are going down a hall, or in a air vent and she comes crawling towards you, then dissapears. 
 This game is worth the buy because it is a awsome shooter, and is terrifying, 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamergeller
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 29, 2008 8:08 pm PT
Review:  Fear is a game that you should experience at least once in your gaming lifetime. It really should 
 not be missed.
  
  Yes, Its another FPS, and yes it uses the slow down mechanic seen in other games such as Max Payne. 
 But this game is an original in SO many ways.
  
  You are the member of a paranormal combat unit sent in to get the job done. What is the job? Who 
 exactly are you? and why do you keep having these grusome and disturbing flashbacks? Play on to 
 answer these questions and much much more. The storyline ends up being very immersive and satisfying.
 
  
  The graphics are on par with what you would come to expect for one of the original releases for 
 the XBOX 360, and they really won't let you down. 
  
  Combat and gunplay are almost near perfect. The blood and gore are just right.
  
  2 things 
 really stand out however and 2 things really make this game a gem.
  
  The first being the intelligent AI. These guys are not your grandmothers AI. They know whats up 
 and they know how to tak you down. They won't just sit there and take it, they will find a way 
 to end you. and they will talk crap while doing it.
  
  The second thing would be the tension and the actual FEAR created while playing. You can't help 
 but feel an erie sense of dread while playing. You can't help but slowly move around a corner, 
 the whole time feeling as if you really could die at any moment. Cut scenes and flashbacks add 
 to this level of disturbia, all the while always catching you off guard at just the right moment 
 to actually scare you.
  
  The one thing that's a real negative however is the lack of different environments. At times you 
 can feel as if you have not progressed all that far, as each current level seems just like the 
 last.
  
  Overall. Buy this game. Play it in the dark. and wear a diaper just in case. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xilerymth
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 29, 2008 12:53 am PT
Review:  First Encounter Assault Recon, a top secret military force that deals with paranormal activity, 
 has instated you as its newest point man. Your mission is to eliminate Paxton Fettel, a military 
 commander that has gone psycho & has taken control of cloned soldiers that have a telepathic link 
 to him. As you can see, the storyline is already good at the beginning of the game & only gets 
 better. Throughout the game your character has visions of a horrible past, which links you to Alma, 
 the little evil girl in a red dress who constantly follows you throughout the game. The AI in this 
 game is seriously smart, probably among the best in any game. Graphics are great, especially when 
 you come across blood spatter, grenade effects, etc. An interesting feature in the game is the 
 SlowMo ability, which creates a bullet time effect for the player. One thing bad about this game 
 is that the levels seem to lose content. Another would be that there simply aren't enough levels. 
 If you are looking for a great horror/FPS game, you've found it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ngnikolaos312
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 28, 2008 5:14 am PT
Review:  First Person Horror Shooters are one of my favourite brands. So when I finally bought this new 
 addition to my collection I was overwhelmed with joy. But will all turn out a-o-k?
  
  Story:
  I'm not a native english speaker, so I'm not really good in listening to the English 
 language under any circumstances. I prefer to have subtitles, and when those aren't available, 
 I appreciate good clean sound to help me hear out the words. FEAR has neither. With no subtitles, 
 and most of the dialogue being heard through bad-com-links between you and HQ, I was missing out 
 important elements of the story, and couldn't understand a whole lot. 
  
  You are basically a member of FEAR, a recon elite trained group of soldiers dealing with paranormal 
 threats (an X-File SWAT team, if you will) , which I find amusing, since nothing in your training 
 or equipment is able to handle paranormal threats. So, put your X-File SWAT team, add a cheap rip-off 
 of Shamara from The Ring, put in the blender some clone soldiers being telepathically controlled 
 by a guy who thinks he's Hannibal Lekter just for the f**k of it, and WHAM! you've gotten yourself 
 a story.
  
  Even if the story seems like a jumble of random thoughts and rip-offs, nothing of that matters 
 if the atmosphere is horrific and scary (this IS a horror FPS we're dealing with) . Again, FEAR 
 is just ... plain weird in this area. In the beginning you are certainly a lot nervous with what 
 you're seeing, but after a while the scares don't seem like horror scenes, but rather than silly 
 pranks made by kids inside a supposedly haunted house. Papers thrown out of a desk, random flashes 
 of people walking, weird noises ... it sounds very right, but ... it's not horrific. After a while 
 it is painfully obvious that the scares don't have any sort of effect on the character at all. 
 For example, in Condemned Origins (now THAT was a horror game) , you would see a shadow a few meters 
 away, and after a while someone would be hammering you from the left, the right and the back, you 
 name it. The scares were effective, because they were followed by immediate danger. In FEAR, 99% 
 of the paranormal stuff you're seeing is just not dangerous at all. I was more worried about the 
 mental state of my character, rather than his physical safety.
  
  Yet ANOTHER flaw in the atmosphere is the fact that the designers kept giving me the impression 
 that they weren't sure just what the hell they wanted to make in this game. There are stages where 
 there is absolutely no horror elements at all, and feel like straightforward FPS. Some other stages 
 had almost no fights and were full of cheap BOO scares. It is only at the end of the game where 
 the paranormal actually BECOMES dangerous (the final stage is filled with a lot of tension) . I 
 felt as if everything I saw was a build-up for the final encounter, and I must admit that in this 
 spirit, FEAR worked like a charm. It's just a pity that I had to play 20 hours to enjoy horror 
 for ten minutes.
  
  Graphics:
  The graphics of the game are nice (for a first gen title anyway) , especially the stages where you 
 are in the streets. Inside hi-tech buildings however, the game looks like a really sharp PS2 title. 
 Walls are plain and lack detail. The effects and explosions are realistic enough to make you go 
 WHOA anytime any big ruckus occurs, and there was a lot of effort to make the rooms look realistic 
 by having tons of junk like papers, clipboards, coffee mugs, trash, devices, etc. Enemies are nicely 
 designed and animated, but nothing really special in this day and age.
  
  Music / Sound Effects
  Music is almost absent, except for weird noises that work well in building 
 the tension in the game. Sound effects abound, with footsteps, radio communications between enemies, 
 gunshots, ghost sounds, the works. Why the fully-armored clone trooper wielding a penetrator sounds 
 like a grizzly bear when he dies is a mystery best left undiscovered.
  
  Gameplay:
  The game's trumping card, is without a doubt, its pretty good A. I. Enemies use various tactics 
 to kill you, whether it is ambush, taking cover, throwing grenades at you, or simply charging and 
 shooting (a rare occasion, which is realistic and dandy) . Based on their conversations, you get 
 hints at what they're about to do. When they say "check it out", you know someone is coming. When 
 they say "Flush him out!" you can bet a grenade is sure to follow. "We need reinforcements?" You 
 got most of their squad.
  
  On the minus side, enemies just lack variety. You have your basic stormtroopers (the grunts) , which 
 is the 90% of encounters you're going to have in the game, an armored trooper that uses a cool 
 weapon called the penetrator, Predator wanna-be's called Assassins, and the ED-209's biggest fan, 
 which is used mainly as a mini boss. So yeah, with an enemy compendium amounting to 5 (the fifth 
 enemy is a secret :P ) , they had to work with quality.
  
  You have your basic selection of weapons, pistols, automatics, semi-automatics, shotguns, rocket 
 launchers, plasma guns (gotta have plasma guns when chasing ghosts) and your adorable grenades. 
 You even have a slow-mo ability which is due to your excellent training (*snork*) and can use it 
 in order to gain the momentum against your superior in number and weaponry foes.
  
  One thing I didn't like was the fact that the difficulty isn't handled right. The game doesn't 
 get harder in every stage you advance; some later stages turn out to be much easier than previous 
 ones. While that's realistic (in real life, things don't always get harder with each second) , this 
 IS a video game we're talking about.
  
  OVERALL:
  FEAR should have been great, but its shameless rip-offs of famous franchises (which I don't mind) 
 jumbled all together in a way that makes little sense (that, I mind) , along with its lack of atmosphere 
 consistence prevent it from being a top choice. It's NOT a bad game. It's a pretty damn good shooter 
 where action is concerned, and the tension (as long as you keep falling for the cheap scares) can 
 be pretty engaging. I just can't find it in my gamer's heart to call a game top-choice when it 
 doesn't seem to know what it wants. I'll definitely buy Project Origin if it gets good scores, 
 and I hope that it will be vastly superior to its predecessor. Horror FPS fans are more than welcome 
 to give it a go, even though I'd recommend Condemned Criminal Origins if you haven't already played 
 it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: connor52
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 22, 2008 4:27 pm PT
Review:  this game was so repetitive and super hard to nav the levels even with the flash light another 
 thing this game was soooo scary that i had to take like 30 minute breaks just to get over the scaryness 
 its also really startlling the health system sucks to you cant really tell if u get hit to and 
 it goes down fast and then you die thats one of the only things that sucks the weapons are really 
 cool and so are the effects and graphics the gore is just stupid it dose not have to be soo dam 
 gory that u cant see!!!!!!!!!!!! like when u use the shotgun the enemys whole top half flys off 
 eeewwww nasty!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! other than that this game is good and has great multiplayer an 
 instant action!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! the darkness is kinda hard to see in even with a flash light 
 wich makes it hard to nav even in the smaller levels the ai is ok but your enemys look like there 
 from halo 3 or somthing like that so i hope this reveiw was helpful 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JohnnyC25
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 19, 2008 9:53 am PT
Review:  At first this game doesn't seem to be any different then other first person shooters, until you 
 see the 'slow motion' feature in this game that makes soldiers and other entities fall down, pushed 
 back or totally being blown apart in 'bullet time', Matrix style, by the weapon of your choice!
 
  I say slow motion but the fact is that you really don't slow down time, you just go so fast that 
 it looks like 'bullet time' which makes it different then other games that use this similar feature 
 to actually 'slow down' time. This awesome feature can only be used when your 'slow-mo' bar is 
 full and once activated it last for a couple of seconds. All together that makes it really fun 
 to play overall and gives you tactics and strategies to work with throughout a lengthy creepy game! 
 
  I'm not going to mention the story line since there are tons of websites you can read up on that, 
 let's just say it will freak the hell out of you.
  I did have to turn of the music in this game because it was just annoying with repetitive 'sound 
 loops' that were played over and over again. 
  Another downfall, and probably the biggest I could find, is the level design, it is just horrible! 
 Levels all look the same, for instance there is an office building level where to get lost at if 
 you don't pay close attention. You will find yourself sometimes wandering through a maze of cubicles 
 until you discover a hallway you haven't been in yet. There's also not much detail to be found 
 in them either, which is kinda a shame because if the creators have had put a little more effort 
 in it, it probably would have lifted it's popularity rating up immensely and would have been classified 
 under a totally revolutionary FPS game!
  And yes that's what it is! I've played many many FPS shooters in my life, from Doom in the early 
 days until now and this one really stands out! The funny thing is that the next F. E. A. R game (called 
 F. E. A. R. Origins, to be released Q4 of '08) has everything what made the original game great AND 
 fantastic level design... the creators probably saw that they could have spend a little more effort 
 creating the levels.
  
  Overall this game is very good and a lot of fun. Well worth playing and well worth buying!!
  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: combatsoldier
Rating: 6.5
Date: May 31, 2008 9:54 am PT
Review:  stop crying and hold your heads up cause here we go with another review by THE KING OF REVIEWS. 
 me. lets start off with the story. it was actually pretty solid and offered a wierd twist around 
 almost every turn and corner that was actually kind of disturbing. the violence is in top notch 
 shape and thats always a plus. as for a next gen first person shooter. well its okay but not the 
 greatest one on the market. graphically it is okay and there is really no difference between this 
 one and the ps3 version. its fun to play through once and thats about it. i would say definitely 
 a rental but not worth buying.
  
  as you play through you just feel like it is missing something... i hope that stupid girl in the 
 game doesnt try to kill me now.. man. i would also like to add that there is hardly any body playing 
 this game online anymore so you will most likely have to revert to other multiplayer games. merry 
 christmas. 
  
  this also has an expansion that is pretty cool and worth checking out but this just fell a little 
 short to me. this version did deliver a solid horrer felt game so for that i applaud. but at times 
 it made me a little naucious and i had to take a break because of the environments got me a little 
 bit of motion sickness. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Deano098
Rating: 9
Date: May 19, 2008 11:34 am PT
Review:  twas scary and stuff
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  cheese
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  obody likes a bully, and 
 nobody likes being bullied. But what do you do when confronted by a bully? Do you sit there and 
 take it out of fear that standing up to the bully will lead to even more torment? Do you rat him 
 out and hope for the best, knowing that it'll lead to a parking-lot brawl after school? Or do you 
 stand up, fighting fire with fire? Rockstar's latest game, appropriately titled Bully, puts you 
 in that situation and gives you the tools to stand up to those bullies, knock them around with 
 your fists, and rise to the top of a boarding school's social scene. The interesting story and 
 unique setting set Bully apart from the pack, and the result is simply exciting.
  
  
  Jimmy Hopkins is a mischievous kid, but he isn't a monster.
  Bully opens with you, 15-year-old 
 troublemaker Jimmy Hopkins, getting dumped off at a boarding school by your newly remarried mother 
 and her rich husband. Your mother and her new husband intend to spend an entire year away on a 
 cruise while you languish in what might as well be a teenage prison with slightly better-looking 
 uniforms. Bullworth Academy is run by a clueless administration and a series of social cliques 
 that are always scrapping. As the new kid thrown into the equation, you're quickly painted as an 
 outcast. You're also befriended by another such outcast, a weird kid named Gary, who is apparently 
 off his attention deficit disorder meds and has delusions of taking over the entire school. However, 
 crazy Gary removes himself from the picture relatively early on, leaving you to fend for yourself 
 against the school's different factions while attending classes, avoiding authority figures, and 
 occasionally kissing girls.
  
  While the gameplay is certainly strong, it's the setting and storyline that make Bully worthwhile. 
 The characters are over-the-top caricatures of what you'd expect to see from jocks, principals, 
 nerds, cheerleaders, and so on. Jimmy, however, is sort of the street-smart kid in the middle of 
 it all. His dialogue is well written, portraying him as the one who can see through almost all 
 of the personalities before him. That, plus the high school setting, is relatively untapped for 
 this type of game. The conflicts seem real and edgy without being gratuitous, and the game maintains 
 a T-for-Teen rating, without making you feel as if it's pulling any punches. It's like a modern-day 
 River City Ransom.
  
  Bully is an open-ended mission-based game, but don't mistake open-ended for a lack of structure. 
 This is school, after all, and you're expected to attend two classes each day. You wake up at 8 
 a. m., have a morning class at 9 a. m. and an afternoon class at 1 p. m., and after that you're free 
 to take on additional tasks until 11 p. m., which is curfew. Of course, rules were made to be broken, 
 so as long as you dodge the prefects who roam the campus or the police who roam the nearby town, 
 you can stay out and about until 2 a. m., at which point you'll automatically pass out from exhaustion 
 and wake up at 8 a. m. the next morning. The game time moves pretty quickly, but because there's 
 no real deadline for getting things done, you can take missions and classes at your own pace. So 
 the game does have a specific structure to it, but it never feels as if you don't have enough time 
 to get things done.
  
  While it may be tempting to blow off all of your classes, staying in school has very real benefits. 
 Each class has five minigame sessions, and succeeding at each task gives you a bonus. Doing well 
 in gym class teaches you new fighting moves via wrestling and gives you increased accuracy by winning 
 at dodge ball, which is a simple take on the game and serves as a bit of an homage to the classic 
 '80s game Super Dodge Ball. English class gives you a set of letters, and you have to come up with 
 as many words as you can by using those letters. Passing English gives you increased verbal abilities, 
 allowing you to beg off from beatings or apologize to authority figures to avoid getting busted. 
 Chemistry class gives you access to a chem set in your bedroom that lets you make firecrackers 
 and stink bombs. Shop class has you pressing buttons in a set sequence to build BMX bikes, which 
 are then unlocked for your use. Art class is a Qix-style minigame (or, more accurately, it's maybe 
 a little more like the seedy naked lady Qix clone, Gal's Panic) that has you claiming parts of 
 a painting while avoiding erasers and other enemies. Photography is the least essential of all 
 classes because it just unlocks the ability to take photos and save them to your memory card. It 
 also gives you a side mission as a yearbook photographer, with the goal of finding and snapping 
 pictures of every student. Once you complete all five sessions of a class, you're no longer branded 
 as a truant for skipping that class. So on top of getting some necessary upgrades, getting school 
 out of the way early opens up your schedule for more missions.
  
  Bully is broken up into chapters. Each chapter has you butting heads with one of the school's different 
 factions, so you'll be going on missions to trip up that faction. For example, the preppie kids 
 prefer in-ring boxing to street fighting, so one mission will have you head to their boxing ring 
 and take on some challengers. In the segment where you take out the jocks, you work more closely 
 with their nemeses, the nerds. You'll sneak into the girls' dorm to take naughty photos, steal 
 the school mascot's uniform and use it to sneak around and pull off some nefarious deeds, and so 
 on. Some missions are less about your current target, though. During the course of the game, you'll 
 also help out some teachers, like the pervert gym teacher who asks you to go on a panty raid or 
 the alcoholic English teacher who needs a little help cleaning up his act. None of the missions 
 are lengthy or difficult, but the variety of the tasks you take on will keep you interested from 
 start to finish.
  
  Jimmy's abilities grow as you unlock new attacks and get new items. You interact with specific 
 students by holding down the L1 button to lock onto them. From there, you can greet them positively 
 or negatively. These social buttons are also used to hire bullies as bodyguards, to attempt to 
 kiss girls, and so on. Of course, locking onto a target is also the best way to fight it. You get 
 a good number of weapons during the course of the game, and they're all appropriately adolescent, 
 like a slingshot, firecrackers, a bottle rocket launcher, a potato cannon, itching powder, stink 
 bombs, the occasional baseball bat, and your fists. Your fists and feet are your most potent weapons, 
 and there are no guns, knives, or anything else that would just straight-up cause death in the 
 game. Enemies can block your basic attacks, but you can learn overhand hits, low sweeps, and other 
 moves that can get around an enemy's block. On top of that, you can also grapple enemies, taking 
 them down and kneeing them in the groin or hitting them in the face some more. The fighting system 
 is really satisfying, though no single enemy is ever very tough. The enemies do, however, provide 
 more of a challenge when you're outnumbered. Many of them drop life-restoring cola, so even when 
 you're outnumbered, the odds never seem too overwhelming.
  
  
  During the course of the game, you'll impress girls, learn how to fight better, and get access 
 to a digital camera.
  From a technical perspective, Bully won't immediately blow you away, but that's because of the 
 age of the PlayStation 2 platform. Taking the platform into consideration, Bully looks great, with 
 a lot of lifelike animation that makes the characters come alive during its cutscenes. The frame 
 rate isn't 100 percent solid, but it always maintains a playable speed, and things like camera 
 control rarely get in the way. The voice work is fantastic. The characters are perfectly cast with 
 voices that fit them, though you won't recognize many, if any, of the names behind those voices. 
 The same goes for the music. Rather than being filled with a bunch of instantly dated modern music 
 that any teen might listen to, Bully has an original score that is thematically similar throughout, 
 with plenty of harpsichord, all of which helps give the game a cinematic feel. The game has widescreen 
 support and Dolby Pro-Logic II, which both work about as you'd expect.
  
  Bully isn't a very difficult game, and it's likely that you'll be able to get through the storyline 
 and see its somewhat predictable conclusion in about 15 hours or so. If you're a completist, there 
 are plenty of hidden objects to collect, clothing items to purchase, and side missions (like bike 
 races) to take on, and you can go back and do those things after finishing the main game. Overall, 
 it's interesting from start to finish and most definitely well worth playing.
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: chrispwns
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 18, 2008 10:50 pm PT
Review:  weve seen scary games before such as the silent hill franchise with always left you with a bone 
 chilling horror, and who could forget Resident Evil the game that brought terror into simple moaning 
 zombies wich would always scare you. But has there ever been a horror game done in first person.... not 
 until F. E. A. R this game is first of all of course scary it will be one of the scariest games of 
 all time in fact i will not ruin the scares for you but youre in for a suprise. While this game 
 will definitley scare the living pants off of you there are some things that just dont make this 
 game perfect. One is that every level is similar to the previous ones youre once again in a dark 
 buisness building but it becomes forgiviable because of the things that help make it understandable. 
 Another is that the story can get a little boring unless you stay completley tuned in. Anybody 
 that just likes to get scared then this the game to add to your collection. Oh and the AI is INCREDIBLE 
 so buy it and remember its just a game lol. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jorlen
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 15, 2008 7:33 am PT
Review:  This is my 2nd time playing FEAR back when it came out in 2005 for the pc, I played through it 
 and it had quickly become the best shooter I'd ever played. In a nutshell, FEAR is a first person 
 shooter with "lite" horror elements. They keep you on your toes and give you a scare occasionally, 
 but the bulk of the game is good old running and gunning. The thing that makes FEAR special, is 
 the fact that it has, to this day, the best enemy AI ever. Those of you who've played shooters 
 before should stick to a high enough difficulty level to get a challenging experience. If the game 
 is too easy, it won't have the same feel and you'll probably end up getting bored.
  
  
  Getting into the AI, enemies will flank, hide, duck behind objects or peak from walls to avoid 
 your fire. Most areas have a few paths, so don't think for a second you're safe from them running 
 around your area and shooting you in the back of the head with a shotgun while you're sitting there 
 waiting for them to come out. This isn't your typical enemies that will just blindly run at you 
 with guns blazing expecting the best. No, they'll flush you out with grenades and generally team 
 up to deal with you. They'll bark orders at each other, sending one of their units to find you 
 while the rest stay back and provide cover fire... In packs, they are incredibly effective... Oh, 
 and don't let them spot your flashlight, because you'll be in trouble!
  
  
  The other interesting element tossed in this game, aside from the excellent AI and horror elements, 
 is the ability to slow time. You're not really slowing time, you're just tuning in to your inhumanly 
 super crazy reflexes, but the effect is slowed time. Trust me, you'll need this ability to survive. 
 It's quite handy when you want to run in a room and try to get a few good head shots before the 
 enemy can react.
  
  
  As you can see, I've spent a lot of time praising the AI because it is, to me anyways, the highlight 
 of the game. The environments are alright, but tend to get slightly repetitive. Also, there aren't 
 many different enemy types (you are fighting an army of clones after all) . But these things hardly 
 matter if you're focused on the experience that FEAR provides; it's all about the insane and memorable 
 firefights :)
  
  
  I've browsed through the reader reviews and I've noticed some people seem to hate the game. I can 
 see how it's not for everyone, but I don't get the overly low scores. I'm telling you now, if you 
 like a challenge and enjoy good single player enemy AI, you have to play this game. It's a must.
 
  
  
  While the PC version I played a few years back was near perfect, the xbox 360 suffers from a few 
 port flaws, but nothing crippling. First and foremost is the inability to save anywhere you want. 
 This certainly adds to the challenge, that's for sure, but I get the feeling like the checkpoint 
 system wasn't given a lot of attention. For example, you'll face a very challenging area, and beat 
 it, lucky to be alive, and then are faced with another challenging scenario immediately afterwards, 
 with no checkpoint in between. So you can survive the first instance, but then the second kills 
 you, and you have to start over again, getting by both hurdles. Those of you who've played Rainbow 
 six Las Vegas in realistic mode will know exactly what I'm talking about here. On the higher difficulties, 
 the lack of logical checkpoints can get punishingly repetitive, but at the same time, it does give 
 you a chance to hone your skills and the victory is that much more satisfying, but I'm warning 
 you now, you're going to use those 4 letter words quite often!
  
  
  Another minor flaw is you sometimes see clipping of your own head, very briefly. It doesn't happen 
 too often but it does take away from the immersion. I'm puzzled, as this should have been patched 
 by now. My last gripe is the occasional FPS hit, but it's not as often as you'll see in other games. 
 I remember the PC engine being rather demanding, and the 360 port of it isn't any different.
  
  
  Despite those small dings, the game is by far one of my favorite shooters of all time. 
 It's atmospheric, gory, bloody and satisfyingly visceral. The game engine may not be as flashy 
 as unreal 3.0 but it's still good, even years later, offering impressive lighting and physics. 
 After a shoot out, dust will fill the air and buckets, cans and debris will fly around from the 
 concussion of explosives.
  
  
  I've had some of the best firefights playing this game. Enemies shriek in pain when you kill them, 
 and decent physics means that bodies will go flying or tumbling realistically. Add the fact that 
 you have a penetrator gun that can literally nail enemies to the walls and you have quite the experience!
 
  
  - Jorlen 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mohfrontline
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 14, 2008 7:21 am PT
Review:  FEAR stands for First Encounter Assault Recon, and you basically are a new recruit with amazing 
 test results that gets sent into a mission trying to catch a madman, and his "minions". I don't 
 want to give anything away, as FEAR depends on the fact that you don't know what's coming next.
 
  
  The game play is decent, the guns feel solid, and the fire fights are very intense. The surroundings 
 collapse with every gunshot, there are bullets flying everywhere, and well, you get the idea. This 
 game has some of the most intense fire fights of any shooter I've ever played. It's also got plenty 
 of gore.
  
  The graphics are decent, visuals look good, and so does the blood. But the real problem with this 
 game is the fact that it can get repetitive. Since you're fighting a clone militia (of sorts) , 
 the bad guys never change. And most of the settings your in range from a creepy deserted office 
 building, boiler rooms, to abandoned warehouses.
  
  Even with all this said, FEAR does an excellent job at keeping you alert. Sometimes you see people 
 around a corner, then when you look there, there's no sign of them, rats jump from walls, and boxes 
 fall from shelves. And like the professional review said, you feel like your being watched the 
 entire time.
  
  All in all, a great game, a must have for shooter fans who want to get a little suspense. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PerfectlyDark
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 5, 2008 8:14 pm PT
Review:  I simply cannot see what people like about this game, but I do see why they do get into it. The 
 slow mo stuff is really cool and I will admit that the game is still very solid even by todays 
 standards. This is no Black, but the guns are very well done and developed. Most shooter fans like 
 myself LOVE a good gun in a shooter and this game has just that, and its awesome. But the game 
 REALLY lacks in alot of other areas. The level design is just aweful and thats really where the 
 game sorta blows. Otherwise Its just an average shooter with the ability to slow time down.
  
  Graphics: Hey it looks bad, but then again thats not very fair sinse, well, it came out in 
 early 2005. On an HDTV is looks pretty good reguardless and after the first few minutes you'll 
 be so focused on shootin' dudes that you will have forgotten all about it.
  
  This isn't a must buy, but hardcore FPSer fanboys like myself outta to check it out seeing as how 
 its cheap as dirt. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jackrocks123
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 5, 2008 10:15 am PT
Review:  Graphics are very good
  Story is very good
  Very scary, just one amazing game in one box.
  
  when i first played this game i thought that 
 it wouldn't be scary but i was wrong. it is very scary.
  
  That little girl is so creepy plus it being in the dark doesn't help either. This game won't give 
 you nightmares but will surely creap you out, scare you and make you jump right out of your skin.
 
  
  So get this game as soon as possible.
  
  The game details are just amazing, the blood and gore make it really fun.
  
  It may not be 
 as good as how games are now but still worth it to buy
  
  So go out and buy it!!!
  
  The A. I is the best A. I you can get so far in any game, so roll, duck, find cover and try any ways 
 to kill you.
  
  They talk, saying things like 'flashlight check it out' so also say alot of other stuff, which 
 make them seem human not a computer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: uhateit
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 1, 2008 4:37 pm PT
Review:  This was a great sci-fi horror style first person shooter game. I had a lot of fun playing this 
 game however with many first person shooter games I prefer a third person perspective as opposed 
 to FPS. I tell you I did get motion sickness playing this game from running and moving so much 
 in the game!
  
  The game was not as horrifying as people made it out to be. The scenes with the girl popping up 
 were scray and especially the last level with the ghosts flying at you was pretty freaking intense 
 and scary!
  
  The game had a lot of great shooting action similar to many other FPS games and I was hoping it 
 would be more of a scary style game instead of a shooter, but the game was definately well thought 
 out, well enjoyed, and much fun to play.
  
  Graphics are intense and very likelike with great visuals. Game took a little longer than other 
 games I have played and I enjoy that as a game that ends too fast can make you feel like you wasted 
 money if it's over in less than 10 hours. But the game was great and I would recommend it to anyone! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrYates808
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 26, 2008 3:27 am PT
Review:  
  
  F. E. A. R. was originally a PC game, and was released to some success in 2005. A spectacular action-packed 
 FPS, F. E. A. R. artfully blended brutal combat with unsettling horror to produce a respectable addition 
 to any shooter fan's collection. Now, a year later and we have an Xbox 360 port, bringing the suspense 
 from the PC to the living room. 
  
  There's been no changes story-wise since we were first sucked into F. E. A. R.'s spooky world last 
 year. You play as an elite agent in team F. E. A. R. (First Encounter Assault Recon) who specialise 
 in paranormal threats. At the start of the game a man telepathically takes control of an army of 
 cloned super-soldiers, and all hell breaks loose. Predictably it's up to you to sort things out; 
 discover just what's going on, who needs to be shot, and which gun is best to do it with. It's 
 worth noting that from my hazy memory of the PC original, I didn't notice any additional content 
 to the game bar one short added mission. 
  
  
  
  
  When I first approached this game, I was unsure of what to expect. While I had played the original 
 on the PC, and enjoyed it, I was unsure just how well it would translate to a console with joypad 
 controls. As anticipated, control was a mixed bag. While mouse and keyboard are undoubtedly still 
 the FPS controls of choice, F. E. A. R. 360 makes a solid stab at allowing for smooth console play. 
 Making use of just about every button on the pad, it takes a while to familiarize yourself with 
 the set-up. Once you've got it nailed though, navigating through the game becomes relatively smooth. 
 Aiming with the right analogue stick just about works, but at times it's just simply not accurate 
 enough, especially when faced with strafing enemies. On more than one occasion I was left frustrated 
 by missing enemies from sliding the cross-hair too far over, all the while knowing that on the 
 PC I'd be moving on to blast the next squad of enemies by now. 
  
  This perhaps wouldn't matter so much if it wasn't for the fact that the enemies in F. E. A. R. are 
 frighteningly effective. Much was made of the AI back in 2005 and it continues to impress today. 
 Enemies talk to each other, will scatter and flank you, take and make cover (by tipping over objects) , 
 use grenades to flush you out, and generally make life a pain. This isn't a FPS that can be rushed 
 through, but one that requires some concentration, cunning and method to the madness you'll undoubtedly 
 inflict. 
  
  
  
  
  But why would you rush through a game that makes use liberal use of bullet-time slow-motion gun 
 battles anyway? Yes slow-mo became old the instant Max Payne came out, but nobody can deny it's 
 still enormous fun in a cheesy way. Stab a button and you'll make use of your 'superior reflexes' 
 which turn out to be the ability to dodge bullets. This charges up when you're not using so you'll 
 generally have access to bullet-time for most encounters - a good job as when it's coupled with 
 explosive sound and impressive ragdoll physics, it makes for some cinematic and visceral action 
 that simply can't be bettered anywhere else on the 360 at the moment. F. E. A. R. Has a weak, flimsy 
 story but all that goes out the window the minute you whip out that nailgun and impale some soldier 
 against the wall in glorious slow-motion. Who cares why you're killing them when it's this explosive? 
 Truly, battles in F. E. A. R. need to be experienced to be fully appreciated - these incredibly sweet 
 slices of chaos can't really be expressed fully in words. 
  
  With Gears Of War and Rainbow 6: Vegas, the bar for graphics is now high for shooters on the 360. 
 While F. E. A. R. made most PC's tremble, these days the engine is looking slightly dated. Slow-motion 
 looks cool, the lighting is great and the physics satisfying, but there's just some spark missing 
 from the game now that makes me sit back and go 'wow.' Perhaps it's the blurry textures in places, 
 but more likely it's down to the level and environmental design. Much of the game takes place in 
 the same sorts of offices or warehouses against the same enemy (clones tend to be fairly samey) . 
 To be frank it's somewhat irritating and does lead to a feel of repetition. Even the combat can 
 suffer eventually as you start to go through the motions against the same soldiers. A touch more 
 variety to the levels would really do this game some favours
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Noxale
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 19, 2008 10:52 am PT
Review:  I for one love horror games. But it isn't just the ones that concentrate on being so frightening 
 that you would prefer to go to sleep and have nightmares than keep playing the game (Silent Hill) . 
 I also love playing games that are mostly action games but occasionally remember that they should 
 try to be a little different so they decide to flick a light on and off or just have a room covered 
 in blood (usually meaning that something brutally violent happened in the room, I hope... either 
 that or some girl really needs some cleaning products) . This game is the latter. Mostly an action 
 game, occasionally a horror.
  
  The game could have been much more frightening if you didn't feel like you were playing as a superhero. 
 I mean come on, you slow down time! Doesn't matter how many super-soldiers there are when you are 
 able to slow their movements to a crawl and pop them in the head with ease. Although I'm not saying 
 it's a bad thing to have this ability, I think it adds an interesting twist to this shoulda/coulda/woulda 
 been average shooter.
  
  I must say, in this game the gaphics are georgeous. Too bad that the environments are sooo boring 
 to look at. I can understand that you can't really make every hallway you travel through look unique, 
 but I wish there was more of a variety in the level design.
  
  Sound is great in the game. A good mixture of action-orientation and creepy vibes results from 
 the soundtrack. And the voice acting is pretty good too. Even the enemies have believable voices. 
 
  
  Speaking of the enemies, the biggest problem I have with the game is them. Throughout the entire 
 game you fight against pretty much the same enemy over and over besides one short section with 
 one of the coolest enemies I've seen in any game... but sadly that's pretty much the only time you 
 see them. There are also some sections where you fight big robot things, but I can't really call 
 those very epic since you use the same strategy against them as you would with any enemy (i. e. 
 freeze time, shoot them till they step moving) .
  
  Overall, this game is an above-average shooter with pretty graphics but some repetition. Oh, and 
 there's multi-player... but it sucks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JiminydaKricet
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 17, 2008 6:05 pm PT
Review:  jamin good game! its so realistic with the blood and body parts flyin everywhere. when you shoot 
 a wall it actually shows a believable gun shot crater. the shotty in this game blows out all other 
 shotties EVER! great story line i hope they make another after condemned 2. live should be like 
 the halo series where u can pick ur own game type u want. but don't get me wrong it still has great 
 live. PLAY AT NIGHT ALONE!!!! If the developers do make a sequel add some vechicles. some other 
 great things about this game is when u r deul wielding u can still throw grenades. the trip mines 
 are a great way to kill an opponent as long as u don't put it where everyone can see. the movement 
 in the game is superb. enemies are challenging at times but mad fun to kill, especially in slow 
 mo. oh! another reason why this game is great is because of it slow mo that **** is crazy on live. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pete360gow
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 13, 2008 1:46 pm PT
Review:  F. E. A. R is an amazing game. Although it might look generic , and it is , it's a great and scary 
 game. You'll feel like something is behind you every second and the cut scenes are great. The shooting 
 in this game feel pretty mediocre but the weapons make up for it. There is a slow motion option 
 where you can really see the attention to detail of the damage modeling. There are some really 
 creepy scenes also. The enemies A. I. is amazing to say the least. They will try to flank you and 
 you wont see a pattern in there action. This game is fairly long also. This is a must have for 
 fps or or horror fans. It's great and it truly is a scary game.
  
  pros:
  1. scary scenes
  2. great weapons
  3. detailed slow motion option
  4. next gen A. I.
  
 
  cons:
  1. weak graphics
  2. generic tone
  3. mediocre shooter excitement
  
  overall: 9.0/10 - superb 
::::::

::::::
UserName: amozarte
Rating: 5.5
Date: Mar 6, 2008 12:44 pm PT
Review:  I was told FEAR is a super scary thriller. My wife and I were excited to play it with all the lights 
 off, hoping to have the bejebus scared out of us. After 3 of 11 "intervals" only the gameplay was 
 scary.
  
  FEAR is a patchwork quilt of gameplay and story elements that have already been done (and done 
 better) by someone else. That's not to say that a marvelous work of art cannot contain influences 
 from previous masterpieces, but if you just stitch together pieces of famous works by Monet, Rembrandt, 
 & VanGogh you'll wind up with something appalling, not appealing.
  
  The enemy soldiers sound just like the soldiers from the original Half-Life. Alma appears as a 
 young girl with her face obscured by long black hair. Remind you of The Ring? Maybe The Grudge?? 
 Paxton Fettel eats people like a Resident Evil zombie, except for the thin premise that he doesn't 
 do it for nutrition- he absorbs their memories.
  
  Speaking of thin premises, let's talk about SlowMo. Your character's reflexes are so fast that 
 you can slow down in-game time. Thanks to the part about reflexes, that doesn't sound anything 
 like Max Payne's Bullet Time.
  
  Health dips into the original Doom's bag of tricks, complete with a max of 100 points each, health 
 & armour- that is, unless you pick up health boosters that add 5 pts to your max. What is this, 
 1993?? Oh, and Heaven help you if you pass a checkpoint with low health. Also borrowed from Doom3 
 were messages left through the game. Except instead of watching clue-laden video-memos like Doom3, 
 FEAR offers voicemails from one plant worker to another who asks "Are you alright? We heard loud 
 noises."
  
  There was ONE trait that was unique to FEAR: You can't always just pass over ammo & health to collect 
 them. Sometimes yes, but most times you are forced to press and hold X... for health.
  
  Was there fear in F. E. A. R.? Apart from the occasional "Boo!" moment, no not really. Like the rest 
 of the game, scare tactics were recycled and repetitive.
  
  I cannot recommend this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Daggerfall96
Rating: 2.5
Date: Mar 6, 2008 1:51 am PT
Review:  I'm still waiting. Waiting for the atmosphere. For the excitement. For the slightest sign that 
 this is next gen in any way. Hard to believe that this was a PC game. Hard to believe it is anything 
 other than a very generic first-gen PS2 shooter. The cut scenes look OK, but who plays games for 
 the cut scenes. The biggest ripoff I have encountered since NFS Carbon, and that's saying something. 
 Assassins Creed is hilariously overrated, but at least it bothers to have some next gen conceits 
 about it. This game, however, is as lame, and repetitive, and dull as it comes. It's like Max Payne 
 never went away. And it's going straight back to the shop.
  Perhaps we've suddenly been spoilt by the sheer genius and full-on fun of artful masterpieces such 
 as Bioshock and COD4. But I aint apologising for that. A great shooter is just that. Quake 2, I 
 will always enjoy. Quake 3, I will never mention in polite company. 
  The Darkness showed that shooters can be superficial and dumb but still great slick one-dimensional 
 fun. 
  The ironically titled FEAR can't even manage dumb properly. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jeff917
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 4, 2008 10:58 am PT
Review:  Just so everyone knows, the reviews I post are my opinions, I'm not paid and I rate them on how 
 I see them. My opinions may differ from every ones and that's OK.
  
  Name: F. E. A. R.
  
  Platforms this game is avaible on: PS3/PC/XBox 360
  
  Platform that this game is being reviewed 
 on: XBox 360
  
  Publisher: Vivendi Games
  
  Developer: Day 1 Studios
  
  Genre: FPS
  
  Difficulty: Normal
  
  Learning Curve: 30 Minutes
  
  Number of Players: 
 1
  
  Online Players: 16
  
  Online Modes: Competitive/Cooperative/Team Oriented
  
  Offline Modes: Storymode
  
  Release Date: 10/31/2006
  
  ESRB Rating: M
  
  ESRB Description: 
 Intense Violence/Blood and Gore/Strong Language
  
  Score: 9 out of 10
  
  Game Price
  Price Used: $24.99 (www. ebgames. com)
  Price New: $29.82 (www. walmart. com)
  
  Is there a Game 
 Guide Book Avaible: Yes
  Price Used: $3.75 (www. amazon. com)
  Price New: $10.40 (www. walmart. com)
  
  Anything Else That is exclusive for this game: No
 
  Price Used:
  Price New:
  
  I'll be honest not many games have scared the living hell out of myself. The last game that really 
 did that to me was Resident Evil 3: Nemesis for the Playstation. After that game came out I played 
 hundreds and nothing else seemed to scare me than one day this last year during the fall I rented 
 a game known as F. E. A. R. or First Encounter Assualt Recon. In this game you play as a agent on 
 a mission to bring in a escaped prisioner who exibits paranormal abilites and to top it off he 
 now has control of a entire Clone army that was never activated. But now are because of his abilites. 
 This game has that feeling like you shouldn't play it at night and I'll be honest I never did. 
 I played it when the sun was up, cowardly of me? Your damn right. You will see things that will 
 make you wonder if you just saw what you saw. Case and point I was going up a ladder no enemies 
 around at all I get to the top of the ladder and BAM someone is right there in my face. this scares 
 the living hell out of me causing me to push the button to jump off the ladder when I hit the ground 
 I took some fire but I also opened fire on that platform after unloading about a clip into it I 
 slowly climed up. And guess what? there was nothing there. That's right no dead bodies. I could 
 only assume that it was a ghost or some kind of paranormal enity. This game will play tricks with 
 your mind, more than once I found myself only playing the game for about a half hour before I had 
 to shut it down because something was building up in me that I needed to walk off. I guess you 
 could call it FEAR! But other than that it's a great game I have only one problem with it. I'm 
 not sure if anyone had the same problem. But I only found acouple vials to up my slow down ability 
 and that was in the begining of the game. If that was all they needed more Plus the controls can 
 feel alittle clumsy sometimes and that's why the game gets a 9 out of 10. The game gets a M for 
 Intense Violence/Blood and Gore/Strong Language. So if you like to get scared out of your mind 
 than I suggest you play this game. and like I said it never hurts to play it in the daytime lol. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Symphonycometh
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 28, 2008 8:09 pm PT
Review:  I shall be doing the review on the 360 version and focus on the heart of FEAR and not the framerates 
 or the port-like graphics of the Playstation 3 version.
  
  Let's get one thing out of the water first! For those that say that this game wasn't scary at all 
 are emotionless zombies that shouldn't be playing innovative games anymore.
  
  /End of that.
  
  The game freaks you out even when you suspect something freaky is about to 
 happen. It focuses on scaring you, using the most overly used thing to scare you with:
  
  A little girl.
  
  She will appear and disappear at any given moment and since the game doesn't 
 know what a "cut" scene is, you'll be playing through these creepy moments and reacting to them.
 
  
  The music type today was dark ambient tones that send chills down your spine and the little girl 
 seems keen on scaring you... thus her weird antics she does to you throughout the entire bloody 
 game!
  
  The shootouts.... yeah they're tough too. The AI is impressive as they'll go all around a building 
 to flank you if they must. They can be very tough when you're getting used to them. And when you 
 do get used to them, you're not in a very pretty situation for the last part of the game, so your 
 old tactics don't matter anyways! Everything stays fresh... esp. when you're scared of a little 
 girl popping out of nowhere...
  
  Oh yeah, and the "creepy" man eater mindfreak isn't creepy... he's awesome.
  
  The flaws with 
 this game is quite simple: Even for a shooter, I want to know more about a story that's supposed 
 to be deep as they come. -_- If you even want a clue, you have to go to the way too optional and 
 creepy to listen to phone calls in the dark corridors. You really don't want to hear them when 
 you're scouting for people or little girls.
  
  Still the best shooter I've played.... for now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mindboy19
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 26, 2008 1:10 am PT
Review:  When I first played F. E. A. R., I was expecting a frightening nightmare akin to what I experienced 
 playing Condemned. What I got, however, was a fun shooter that failed to scare me in any real way. 
 Everything Monolith's survival horror, Condemned got right, F. E. A. R. got wrong. The storytelling 
 seemed off at times, and rather forced. Some of the hallucinatory scenes were nice, but I felt 
 they were too few and far between, instead turning this game into a fairly atypical shooter. The 
 ability to slow time is nice, but in many ways detracts from the scares by turning you into a killing 
 machine.
  
  In Condemned: Criminal Origins, you play a confused cop, and throughout most of the game you are 
 fighting with whatever you can get your hands on. You have no idea what is going on, but are experiencing 
 hallucinations that fit in seamlessly with the environment. In F. E. A. R., things are explained far 
 too often, the hallucinations, while well done, are distracting at times, and seriously, nothing 
 is scary when you have a shotgun, laser rifle, and plenty of ammo. 
  
  This game was Condemned for the FPS audience, and as a FPS game, it is decent. As a survival horror, 
 it isn't really worth mention. One of the most terrifying aspects of survival horror is the feeling 
 of vulnerability, and when you have military grade weapons and armor, that feeling is very much 
 downplayed. 
  
  I feel that if this game had focused more on a stealth element, it would be worthy of its title. 
 The Thief series if remarkable in that it combines elements of survival horror and a need to stay 
 hidden, and shows great potential for the use of stealth in a survival horror- the ability to hide 
 from something much scarier than you. F. E. A. R. could have pioneered this, but they didn't, instead 
 giving you the ability to kill or not interact with anything. Also, I felt the neverending onslaught 
 of clones detracted from the experience altogether, and while allowing for intense action, the 
 more lead flying around, the less scary a place is.
  
  Finally, except for the nightmarish hallucinations, the locales were remarkably not creepy- office 
 complex, shipping yard, underground bunker. While the hallucinations created a cool contrast between 
 these two worlds, I feel the hallucinations were used so rarely that the contrast was barely visible, 
 and the scariness of it all was ruined.
  
  Condemned is proof that Monolith can do Survival Horror. F. E. A. R. is proof that monolith can do 
 a decent FPS, but overall, FPS and survival horror don't mesh well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: olpfan
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 19, 2008 1:54 pm PT
Review:  Ok so Fear. Well Fear is pretty much an investigation team for unusual events. So you play as a 
 new front man of this team to investigate a facility that was used for a pranormal project.
  
  Anyway so fears story kind of works backwards because you dont really understand whats happening 
 untill the end obviously but through the game you'll get flashes of past events and such.
  
  But not to give away to much of the story line its definatly a good play.
  
  Ok so the 
 gameplay is excellent i've always been interested in suvival horror games and this one is excellent. 
 This is one of the few games that offers a well designed bullet time mode which really adds to 
 your experience and the story, it also allows you to work out more strategies.
  
  Your range of weapons is from hand guns to rocket launchers so picking your weapon is generally 
 interesting. Although you cant hold all the guns you can hold 3 at a time which is a good way to 
 add strategy to the game. Making you decide between accuracy or power or explode everything is 
 difficult because you might know you need a specific gun but who can pass up a rocket launcher.
 
  
  The Multi player isn't anything to special but it adds that little extra gaming after your done. 
 It include different game modes and has typical guns as in single player. But you dont have the 
 bullet time option.
  
  This game is a must play and even though i only played FEAR on the 360 i've heard good things about 
 the PC also.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: overkill_
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 4, 2008 11:09 am PT
Review:  At first, I was skeptical. I had heard the PC version was somewhat fun, and I was being offered 
 the game for only about twenty dollars, at the time I was purchasing my Xbox 360. When I first 
 started playing it, it was late at night and I was alone, so I will admit that I was spooking myself 
 out since I wasn't sure what to expect. But once that wore off, and once I got past the first few 
 levels where there wasn't much action, it actually became fun. 
  
  Don't just give up on it after playing the first few levels like many people do and have done, 
 or else you will miss out on the parts that make the game worth playing. 
  
  If you are not into gore, or seeing people almost explode when you shoot them, then this is not 
 the game for you. Same for if you aren't into FPS.
  
  If you think it is 'too easy' for you, then don't use the slow-motion capability as much. I didn't 
 use it for a majority of the game, that way it made it a little more difficult, and it made it 
 a better playing experience for me.
  
  The AI is good, and the graphics aren't that bad. All in all, I give it a 9. I'm not going to go 
 into many details why, because everyone should experience it and have their own view on it. But 
 I personally enjoyed playing it and it kept me entertained. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darren_ankney
Rating: 6.5
Date: Feb 4, 2008 7:52 am PT
Review:  This game was ok as FPS games go. The story was not all that engaging. It also was not scary. I 
 don't really have alot to say about this game as it was just kinda there. I played through it. 
 It didn't drive me nuts, but it also did not enthrall me. It was just OK.
  
  The much talked about AI and so on of the enemies didn't impress me anymore than Half-life 1 did. 
 The displayed no more interesting tactics than the Half-Life 1 enemies did. Not that there is anything 
 wrong with that :)
  
  The weapons were kind of blah, and I found it irritating that you could only carry three weapons 
 + grenades and other explosives. The nail gun was kind of amusing as I would notice people getting 
 stuck to the wall after shooting them. You could then go up and hit them and they would kinda flop 
 around.
  
  The scary level wasn't there at all. The scary scenes and things felt forced. Enemies definitely 
 did not scare you at all. I found myself wondering why it was so dark in the game, and why my flashlight 
 sucked so bad. The darkness felt contrived and the game was not scary, so half way through, i just 
 cranked my gamma to avoid any further frustration.
  
  The story was very difficult to follow as it was strung together with a series of messages and 
 file downloads from laptops. Towards the end, there were some sort of cut scenes. This did not 
 lend any completion to the story. It almost seemed to be about nothing. And the vault was a total 
 let-down. There was nothing fantastic about it. I expected to be "wowed" at that point, but wasn't. 
 
  
  It is a platinum hit, and is worth the $20, so pick it up if you like FPS games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 09231991
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 30, 2008 1:37 pm PT
Review:  When I first saw FEAR for the PC back in 2005 I was like I need to play this game but my computer 
 unfortunately wasn't powerful enough to run it at even medium settings and such so I eventually 
 forgot about it. Then I finally decided that I'd give it a go on the 360 and I was very surprised. 
 My brother had been telling me that it was vastly inferior but when I look at comparisons the PC 
 version is a little cleaner and such but thats it. Anyways I liked this game simply as a great, 
 creepy shooter. The controls were a little hard to get used to but after an hour or so you should 
 be used to them. The story portion of the game was well-told and fleshed out. It is confusing though 
 and you pretty much have to pay attention to almost everything or you might be as confused as I 
 was when playing it. The game's intensity is just perfect and with its matrix-like thing known 
 as slowmo, you can kill guys easier and makes your targets pretty much dead meat. The game also 
 has some over-the-top gore like shooting a guy with the Shotgun blows into little pieces of flesh 
 and insides and such and is just awesome to watch. The game's arsenal is a great size with some 
 over-the-top explosive weapons to. Overall the game is fun and just a blast to play and is definitely 
 really creepy. A must buy for 360 owners. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: APOWDEREDDONUT1
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 23, 2008 10:14 am PT
Review:  Monsters I can do. Witches, bears, black magic, lunatics with machetes are fine by me. What I can't 
 stand, no matter how comfortable my surroundings might be, is little girl ghosts. Add a bright 
 red dress and lank long black hair draped over a dreaded face - see The Ring - mixed with that 
 little freak cloaked in a red rainmac from Don't Look Now and you've royally scared the Sh! t out 
 of me. Video games are supposed to be about fun and full of joyousness, not grown men being obliterated 
 by ghosts. What's the world coming to when a little girl craves to see such anguish in the faces 
 of men? 
  
  Bearing all that in mind there is one job that I wouldn't do for all the women on the internet 
 - be a member of F. E. A. R. For those unfamiliar with such an unnerving acronym it means: First Encounter 
 Assault Recon. These bad boys don't muck about with terrorists or rescue hostages from jungles 
 and all the rest of it. No. Members of F. E. A. R. are elite soldiers trained to deal with situations 
 that normal people just wouldn't be able to handle. So if there's a mean supernatural force of 
 gargantuan proportions posing a threat to national security, who you gonna call? F. E. A. R. I'm not 
 talking Most Haunted here either - Derek Acorah would be splashing his pants within minutes of 
 playing this - sadly so was I. 
  
  Predictably you play the new kid on the block. You don't speak and your colleagues doubt you - 
 although bizarrely despite being a part of a 'team' you spend the entire game fighting alone. They 
 think you're not made of the right stuff, that under pressure you'll pull a run Forest run. Very 
 little about the plot is given away initially - you're a bit special - you're training results 
 scored off the charts - there's some evilness to be dealt with and that's about it. Rather pleasingly 
 one of F. E. A. R.'s strong points is the narrative, but more importantly how it is delivered to you. 
 Where most FPS use cut scenes to move the plot forward F. E. A. R. is subtler. You'll hear whispers 
 that suggest future events, characters will react to you in a certain way suggestion something 
 isn't right. Messages on phones, note books and the occasional cut scene - however these never 
 really feel traditional as they link seamlessly into the action, so much so that you barely notice 
 that you're not in control anymore. 
  
  Within minutes of starting you're running down corridor upon corridor while being treated to the 
 kind of subtle psychological scare tactics usually found in far eastern horror movies - glimpses 
 of people behind doors, flashes of gore and evil innuendo. Similar to the excellent Condemned in 
 atmosphere, F. E. A. R. tightens the vice on your nerves and builds tension like the very best horror 
 movies. While the physics engine pales compared to Half Life 2, the world you're a part of is tangible 
 - objects can be manipulated and you'll often mess your pants as inane objects are placed in your 
 path as you run down dimly lit corridors. Such is the tension that you'll scream when you bump 
 into an empty drinks can and it goes flying. 
  
  See through F. E. A. R.'s horror niche and you'll find a pretty decent shooter in there as well. Next-generation 
 perhaps it isn't, but the lack of any slowdown despite the barrage of explosions and bodies flying 
 mean that you can play a highly demanding PC game smoothly on the 360. F. E. A. R. has another trick 
 up its sleeve in the slow mo feature - there is nothing original about it, Max Payne was doing 
 the whole bullet time thing back in 2001. On the 360 however it's a different kettle of shrapnel 
 - a visual spectacular that looks so good it could have been taken straight out of The Matrix. 
 Bits of debris fly out, dust is thrown up and walls crumble as you blast your way through your 
 enemy. The point being that when you're overwhelmed with enemies you can use your 'special abilities' 
 to dish out the pain. The combat system is something to marvel at - going in guns blazing is going 
 to get you capped and shooting from behind cover is equally perilous as the AI is such that they 
 will flank you and pop you one before too long. In order to progress through the battlegrounds 
 you have to combine the slow-mo feature with melee attacks as well unleashing a barrage of lead. 
 
  
  For all the explosions and slow-mo arse whipping F. E. A. R. remains a generic FPS. The AI is superb 
 and the scary bits are nothing short of cinematic, but there is an awful lot of running and gunning. 
 While this might not be a negative factor for an hour or two, the similarity between weapons only 
 illuminates the lack of diversity on offer. F. E. A. R. is also a short game, but with the said lack 
 of variety this isn't necessarily a bad thing - imagine one big kaboom as opposed to a peppered 
 drawn out series of explosions. These days longevity can usually be found online anyway - F. E. A. R. 
 offers an array of game types all familiar to the genre: capture the flag, deathmatch, etc. 
  
  However any frustrations that you might have with this will be easily overshadowed by the emotions 
 it invokes within you. F. E. A. R. made me react like no other game can - one particular nerve shredding 
 point literally forced me to involuntarily throw the pad from my hands - the glorious thing about 
 this is that very little happened on screen, it was all about suggestion and even the world's greatest 
 horror movies would do well to learn from Monolith's creation. 
  
  A game that fashions such primal fear and mixes it with an always-compulsive if a little generic 
 shooter action can only be a positive thing for gaming. What's on offer here is sheer ingenuity 
 in manufacturing an atmosphere that creeps right into the room you're sitting in - and that's playing 
 it in broad daylight at three in the afternoon. If you like your shooting with a dollop of tangible 
 fear, F. E. A. R. is for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: qrEE
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jun 7, 2008 9:54 pm PT
Review:  Well, If you don't know, I wrote a review of the same game a while ago.
  I used some "Hasty generalizations," which is basically deciding something about every part of 
 it after just seeing a little bit of it.
  So I will review it, now that I've played just about the whole game through, or at least long enough 
 to notice repitition in the game, which means that there is not much generalizing this time, because 
 this time I actually have most of the info of the game. Well, first off, it's story. It's a good 
 story. You go around in an abandoned company building that isn't really abandoned, but inhabited 
 by scared or loyal employees (not much) Ghosts, Military clones (evil) , and a cannibal. You chase 
 down the cannibal, and ghosts try to scare you, clones try to kill you, and employees sidetrack 
 you. So that's all I can, should, and will give away. Next is gameplay. The gameplay is alright. 
 There are many weapons. The problem with this is some weapons the ammo is scarce, but others you 
 find plenty of. Unfortunately, the quantity does not meet quality. The main gun is the Assault 
 rifle, but it will take clip after clip just to kill the weakest. The best gun is the shotgun. 
 It has one to two shots to kill someone, only the weaker ones, and there is plenty of ammo. Two 
 things you will find are melee and SlowMo. SlowMo does the obvious. Well, the problem with SlowMo 
 is that it is really good. That makes people who don't like dying dependant on it. You will usually 
 find yourself taking cover so it can recharge, and you can slowmo your way up to the enemies and 
 take them out before they even notice you've left your spot. Melee is also a dependant thing. What 
 would take 2 clips of an assault rifle or 2 shots of a shotgun would only take one punch to an 
 armored enemy. That does not seem right. Also, the physics of it is really screwed up. The problem 
 is, when you shoot a shotgun at somebody, they might split in half, they might explode (don't know 
 how or why) and they're head might fall off. Or, they could escape unharmed, I still don't know 
 why. Another thing is that when fighting them, you can do a baseball slide style move. This usually 
 hits the opponent in the leg, but causes them to move somewhere near maybe as far as a few hundred 
 feet, and die instantly. This isn't completely accurate, but if you were to play it and test it 
 out, it would be ridiculously out of proportion. Another element is fear. Ya, it has some freaky 
 things, but you can get over it, it's not that scary. (Tip, if you really hate scary parts, run 
 through every door backwards, or at least the parts you would think are scary.) The main problem 
 of fear is the variety. The problem is, there is none. The enemies all look just about the same, 
 give or take some colors or masks, and the maps are just walking on catwalks, walking through offices 
 or crawling through vents. Suprise! Well, now to move onto the A. I. Another unmentioned website 
 had a review in which they were praising the A. I. The A. I. is not great. It's hardly even decent. 
 They will blindfire you, go for cover, and just plain shoot. But one problem is they will hold 
 their gun in one hand, then shoot while looking and running the other way. Sometimes, they will 
 even shoot at the floor, I don't know why. They have no control over their fire, because they suck 
 at maneuvering. Another factor is their melee. They don't just wack. They flail their arms and 
 legs out in a weird way. They will first say punch you by swinging their arm at you, then do it 
 with the other arm or they will curl their arms and poorly kick you in the shins. These clones 
 need to know karate, because you already do. Well, there are problems, major ones, but the problems 
 turn into fun, if you don't take games too seriously. I have lots of fun playing it, not because 
 it's the next game to go platinum, but because it's so bad half the time. Oh well, the game sucks, 
 but it's still probably around a 7 out of ten just because problems turn into better things, ironically. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pi_24112
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jan 5, 2008 4:37 pm PT
Review:  The pc version of FEAR is great. At the time the 360 version's release, I was unable to run FEAR 
 on my pc. I played the original at a friend's house, and was amazed! I anticipated the 360 version 
 so much, only to find it was heavily censored. Some bodies that were built into the level design 
 are covered in blood, just like the pc version, but when you shoot people, all you see are splashes. 
 There aren't any blood decals like in the pc version. It takes a lot of the realism and effect 
 out of the game. I guess that's what happens when the real developer (Monolith) is not involved 
 in the port.
  
  The 360 version looks about as good as the pc version on max settings, but without all the blood, 
 the game doesn't feel right. If you haven't played the pc version, and don't have one good enough 
 to run the original, the 360 version is a good alternative. Otherwise, don't waste your time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xFuryx
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 3, 2008 10:12 am PT
Review:  Ok so here comes F. E. A. R for the 360 which was ported from the PC. You play as this super soldier 
 guy who has crazy reflexes which allows you to move faster then your enemies (basically slowing 
 down time) . You can only carry three weapons at a time so choose wisely. You can pick up "boosters" 
 which boost either your reflex time (slow mo) or that can boost your health, and there are plenty 
 in the game for you to find. The graphics are somewhat disappointing, even on 1080i resolution 
 the game doesn't look that appealing. The sound isn't great either, every time you get info in 
 the form of a radio communication, it's too quiet and the quality isn't that great. The gameplay 
 is fun, slowing down time and blasting away at enemies with a shotgun is awesome. Throwing grenades 
 and launching missiles while in slow mo can never get old. Now the horror part of the game.. isn't 
 scary at all. Yes, I've played at night, but none of the scares were "jumping out of my seat" worthy. 
 Just a few mild shockers here and there.
  
  
  Overall this game is a rent. Try it first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lilman5100
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 2, 2008 5:11 pm PT
Review:  This is one of the best first-person shooter horror games i have ever played... which is why this 
 game is one of the best games ever. Everything about this game is amazing, the sounds make the 
 game almost realistic and i find that fascinating... The graphics are amazing as well and i believe 
 its better than using the PC and much easier... The story and gameplay are also fascinating and 
 very suspenseful which makes the game even better, this is definately the most fascinating horror 
 game i have ever played. The weaponry is also good, its all high tech weapons and things that are 
 well known such as pistols and shotguns and all that great stuff... Another thing, is that this 
 game brings about a story not seen in most games, its well thought out and continues throughout 
 the entire game leaving no loop holes or questions. The plot is very flowing... and i love it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Return2Gaming91
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 1, 2008 12:41 pm PT
Review:  F. E. A. R. is one of the most creepiest games I have played ever. To be honest, I kinda like the 
 horror. The graphics are up to par, and the gunfights & firefights are downright fun. If you are 
 a fan of 1st person shooters, and really want to get scared, play this game in dark, late at night. 
 If you don't like games like this, you are a total moron. This game is worth a purchase. The only 
 thing I don't like is the multiplayer. It's bad that you have to be on X-Box Live to start a multiplayer 
 match. But overall, gamers should check this game out. Remember, play it in the dark!! I love this 
 game, it gets really addictive. If you don't like tons of blood and gore, don't waste 29 dollars 
 and play it & get scared like a 4-year old. Well, to conclude this review, this game has wonderful 
 graphics & sound. That creepy little girl looks like a reject from The Ring. Buy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Anonymoe
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 28, 2007 9:46 am PT
Review:  Pros: Extremely intense firefights; Some genuinely creepy moments; Top-notch AI; Fun multiplayer; 
 Tough difficulty ensures you don't get bored easily
  
  Cons: Difficulty has the potential to scare off a lot of people; Graphics didn't hold up as well; 
 Bonus level isn't really that good; Repetitive environments
  
  When FEAR hit the PC in 2005 it caused quite an uproar in the shooter community. Regarded highly 
 for its intense firefights, smart AI and good graphics, it became a hit with the critics instantly.
 
  
  And now that it's on the Xbox 360 you should have no excuse to miss even renting it.
  
  The premise is that you are a new recruit in the First Encounter Assault Recon (FEAR) . And 
 around when you join, a commanding officer under the name of Paxton Fettel more or less loses it, 
 taking control of telepathically linked clone soldiers and wreaking havoc. Naturally, you are sent 
 to investigate, and so the adventure begins.
  
  Of course, things aren't quite as simple as that (or else the game would risk being too boring) . 
 As you are sent to investigate you will have encounters with a creepy little girl named Alma, who 
 screws with your mind in some weird ways.
  
  And boy does Alma screw with you .The concepts of the hallucinations (numerous things including 
 puddles of blood and random images of dead people) are scary enough. But the game is excellent 
 about pacing them, so that occasionally you think you are about to be scared and you actually don't. 
 Then suddenly it surprises you. It all works well, and it's only by the end of the game that you 
 can start guessing the routine of these scares.
  
  But the game would still be horrifically boring if it were all scares and no gameplay, and thankfully 
 FEAR has shooting action in spades. The gunfights you get into with the clone soldiers are typically 
 quick, with someone dying within a few seconds. You have to take cover and shoot smart.
  
  Your enemies will actually do the same thanks to some of the smartest shooter AI to date. The enemies 
 know to stay behind cover, and they will often try to flank you. And I've even seen them do surprising 
 things such as jumping through glass windows or tipping over vending machines when in dire need 
 of cover. It's incredible, and on the higher difficulties when the enemies can put more hurt on 
 you, it's incredibly challenging.
  
  Thankfully you have your own trick up your sleeve. You have an extremely fast reflex, represented 
 by a small meter on the screen. If you have part of the meter filled you can activate the reflex, 
 sending you into a slow-mo. Then the bullets create rifts, and the enemies are really slow, giving 
 you more time to react.
  
  That said, the whole campaign of FEAR is an exciting and fun endeavor. It is quite difficult though. 
 Even those who have plenty of shooter experience will want to avoid the upper two difficulties 
 at first. Even Easy has the occasional challenging moment (permitting you didn't find the hordes 
 of medkits) .
  
  Although the campaign is the highlight of the game, FEAR does have a robust online mode. It's more 
 or less the standard modes (deathmatch, CTF, territorial control style modes) , but it is quite 
 fun. Surprisingly the online modes take more of a run & gun style approach to combat, because the 
 weapons tend to not have much recoil for moving.
  
  Also important to note are the slow-mo modes where a person can grab a slow-mo power up, thus slowing 
 down every enemy of theirs on the field. This also gives away their position in a twist of fairness, 
 and the slow-mo only works for a limited time. It can be pretty fun to use the slow-mo to create 
 traps in team deathmatch, and adds a strategic element to the gameplay.
  
  FEAR is more or less the same as the PC version in terms of content, and the graphics are the same 
 too. However, they didn't age quite as well as the gameplay. The graphics are still pretty smooth, 
 but they feel really bland and plain, and the ragdoll physics are just ridiculous now.
  
  The sound is fine, if unspectacular. The guns sound accurate each gun getting a special sound effect 
 that helps you identify them, and the enemies have good, if unremarkable, communications. All in 
 all, you'll probably ignore the sound, as it isn't really good or really bad.
  
  FEAR is an impressive shooter. The single-player is likely to give people grey hairs from the tension 
 and scares, and the multiplayer is a fun activity for a little bit afterwards. If you like shooters 
 then you have probably already played FEAR, but if you haven't then you need to rent (or buy) it 
 today.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: xtreme_chief
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 28, 2007 12:25 am PT
Review:  I don't want to say much so just see my review of the PC version of FEAR for more. I'll just talk 
 about whats the same and whats different. Well is a new weapon called the the machine pistol which 
 is basically a modified SMG. Graphics are almost just the same. Enemy AI is the same and thats 
 a good thing as FEAR's AI will always beat a great number of new games on the shelf now. Sound 
 is what makes FEAR as intense as it is, especially when an unknown origin pops up commonly. The 
 blood is still all here like the skeletons of other FEAR team members in puddles of blood and the 
 corpses and splatters as you blast the head off one of those super soldier clones.
  
  In short FEAR ON XBOX360 is a great catch even if you've played through the PC version. Players 
 that find story mode repetitive will have instant action to keep them company. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wacko_McSmacko
Rating: 1.5
Date: Dec 24, 2007 12:12 pm PT
Review:  I'll make this review short, F. E. A. R sucks. First off the gameplay is pretty bad. It's tough to 
 aim with that stupid crosshair and the combat is easy anyway due to the fact that all you have 
 to do is wait in cover until your slo-mo recharges and then you can run out and kill everyone. 
 I didn't beat this game because i couldn't stand it, but that's how i got through most of the levels. 
 The AI is great, but that doesn't change the fact that they can be killed with slo-mo. Still the 
 only reason this game got a 1.5 is because the AI is exceptional. Second, the story is downright 
 dumb. You're basically hunting this weirdo cannibal guy named Paxton Fettel, and all the while 
 this annoying little girl pops up and annoys you more than she scares you. There is never anything 
 different to do. Every mother f**king level it's always hunt Fettel. After 5 levels of this I couldn't 
 take this game anymore, so i began to play online hoping it would be fun. It wasn't fun at all, 
 so then i took the game out of my 360 and put it in the case, ran down to my friends house and 
 gave him the game. A week later i asked him how he liked the game so far. He said he hated it and 
 sold it. I asked why he didn't like it, he said level design was so repetitive and the game had 
 like no story and the guns sucked, so he sold it to some kid. 
  
  Don't buy FEAR, there are plenty of other shooters you can buy like Halo3, Gears of War, and Call 
 of Duty 4. You will die a painful death of boredom if you buy FEAR. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: llSapphyrell
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 23, 2007 12:57 am PT
Review:  This is the best shooting game I have ever played. It has a scary story. The battle is very realistic. 
 In this game you will need carefull planning during an attack. You will need patience in killing 
 the enemies one by one because a sudden charge will lead to your death. There are time where you 
 will encounter many enemies that will be coming from many directions so you will have to act fast.
 
  
  This game will give you chills as you encounter the mysterious villains of this game. You will 
 be facing strong soldiers with high-tech weapons before you get to battle with the powerful villains.
 
  
  The environment will mostly be dark and some places will be small and enclosed. The environment 
 plus the fact that you will be facing mysterious enemies will give you chills.
  
  You will have to be watchfull of your surrounding because you will be needing alot of the items 
 found or drop in your environment. It won't be an easy battle, you will need alot of ammo and protection 
 from these items. There are alot of these items found around and some are hidden and you need to 
 sneak into dark and enclosed corners just to reach these valuable items. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Haphasto
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 19, 2007 5:08 pm PT
Review:  After playing all of the top Q4 releases for the 360 in '07 such as Halo 3, Call of Duty 4, Mass 
 Effect, and Assassins Creed, I was desperate for a new game. I looked all over Gamespot, and thought 
 back to when the 360 was released and tried to come up with a game that I heard good things about, 
 but never picked up.
  
  Only a few games came to mind, those being Dead Rising, Crackdown, and F. E. A. R. After spending 
 about 30 minutes at Best Buy pondering which one I should pick up, I decided on F. E. A. R. I had 
 heard great things from the reviews, and a few friends, and the back of the box didn't look too 
 shabby either.
  
  Once I started playing F. E. A. R. the first thing I noticed just from the first cut scene is that 
 the graphics weren't all too impressive, or atleast weren't what I was expecting. So as I started 
 actually playing the game my impression on the graphics became more true. I honestly think this 
 game could have been done on the original Xbox. It's not that it's an ugly game, it's just not 
 up to par with next gen graphics. Just the way your character holds the guns seems awkward, he 
 almost holds them at an angle. 
  
  As for the environments, they aren't anything special either. Everything seems to look the same, 
 and there seems to be really no effort spent in level design. I got bored very quickly just running 
 around the first level.
  
  But I moved on from all of this, because I for one know that graphics don't make a game. So I tried 
 to focus on the thing that really does matter, and that's the gameplay.
  
  The shooting in this game really isn't all too fun. Infact it just doesn't seem right. The cursor 
 is very tiny, and even when you zoom in, it can become a pain just to get a bead on your target. 
 It's not that it becomes hard, it just seems like you become more sporadic with your shooting, 
 than accurate in hopes that your bullets will hit your target (s) . This is fairly easy to look past 
 though, and doesn't put too much of a damper on the gameplay, and once you get used to it, you'll 
 barely notice that you ever had a problem with it.
  
  F. E. A. R. also brings to us the slow-mo effect that we've seen in many games before it, such as 
 Max Payne. In fact this is one of the few, if not the only first person shooter to use this. How 
 long you can use the slow-mo depends on how much power you have in your gauge. Once the gauge is 
 empty you go back into real time. You can pick up boosters throughout the game that will increase 
 how much power you can hold in your gauge. For the most part the slow-mo works well, and can help 
 you get out of alot of sticky situations.
  
  You can also pick up boosters to increase your health, which introduces another problem I had with 
 the game. It seems like F. E. A. R. is stuck in the past. They decided to keep around outdated idea's 
 such as actually having an assorted amount of health like you would see in DOOM. It starts at 100, 
 but as you progress through the game you can increase it by picking up the boosters as I mentioned 
 before. Of course what comes along with this is med packs, and armor. I was hoping that I would 
 never have to see this again after the original Halo, but for some reason they decided to use this 
 style. Some people may be in favor of it, but I for one dread it. It seems old, bland, and has 
 been proven that the health system can be done in superior ways.
  
  Another thing that I think is missing from this game is the "save anywhere" feature. It just seems 
 like it should be in here. Some games can get away without having it, but it just seems like this 
 game has a big empty hole in it without it. So as you have guessed, when you die, or turn your 
 console off, you have to start over at the last checkpoint. Which can come somewhat often, but 
 not often enough it seems.
  
  The multiplayer in my opinion is complete garbage. I played 2 deathmatch games and ended up asking 
 myself "Why am I playing this?" With superior multiplayer games such as Gears of War, Halo 3, and 
 Call of Duty 4 it just seems almost pointless for anyone to be playing this online. It's almost 
 like an arcade like shooter such as Unreal Tournament stuck in a more realistic shooters body. 
 Which doesn't make for a good combination. 
  
  Now I know it sounds like I hate the game, but I don't necessarily hate it, I just have alot of 
 problems with it. But for what it's worth the game is very creepy, and does a great job of creating 
 an intense chilling environment. You'll find yourself going very slowly through the story mode 
 anticipating things to jump out at you and scare the living **** out of you. With random flashes 
 of ghosts and images popping up all over the place you become very paranoid. The music and sounds 
 also do a great job of bringing you into this horror experience. The story is also satisfying and 
 leaves you curious on what's coming next.
  
  Another small problem I had with the game is achievements. I know for some people achievements 
 are stupid, and a true gamer shouldn't worry about them. But I for one am addicted to them, and 
 like to try and get most of the achievements I can. But after browsing through the list of possible 
 achievements for this game I felt disappointed. Alot of them are hard and ridiculous, such as "beat 
 the game without dying" and the ones that aren't so ridiculous only offer a measly 5 gamer points. 
 And the others require you to play the dreadful multiplayer. If you are an achievement hog do not 
 pick up this game because you will not be earning much, unless you completely fall in love with 
 the game.
  
  Maybe my opinion on this game would have been different if I would have played it when it was first 
 released. But here in 2007 I felt like I should have put my money towards something else. All in 
 all F. E. A. R. isn't a bad game, I just feel like the game could have done alot of things better 
 than they did. It just feels outdated. But if you like horror games, and are a big first person 
 shooter fan, you should atleast be able to enjoy this game somewhat.
  
  I do not see myself finishing this game, nor will I be picking up F. E. A. R. 2 
  
  
  I give 
 F. E. A. R. a 7.0 out of 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AvatarofRage
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 19, 2007 4:13 pm PT
Review:  
  
  The plot of the story, although involved and interesting, seemed to be skimmed over at parts; in 
 such a way that some aspects seemed unbelievable.
  For instance, the faith most of Point Man's allies place in him, with their only explanation 'his 
 reflexes are off the charts', or some comment along those lines. This would be more believable 
 if we where told of some o Point Man's accomplishments, prior to the game. Mention he did a perfect 
 run in a training simulation or something, or even make said training mission a skipable tutorial.
 
  
  The combat was, for the most part smooth, although a distinct lack of variety in opponents sapped 
 some of the joy out o it,
  
  Also, I was disappointed by the lack of an actual boss fight at the end (There should have been 
 at least two, one for Ferrel, and one for Alma. That hallucination sequence doesn't count as that 
 was just point and shoot for 5 seconds)
  
  That said, the game was an enjoyable experience, and more than enough to shave a few years of anyone's 
 life.
  
  P. S. Bonus points for the mutilation provided by the shotgun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kpaxer
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 19, 2007 4:15 am PT
Review:  This is possibly the most atmospheric game I have played yet, and it's hard not to get intensely 
 involved in it, in the same manner as half life pioneered. Even though it is obviously a horror 
 game, and just by literally looking at the box, you can get a guess at what one of hte big scare 
 tactics will be. And you would think, "no, I saw the ring, and some other creepy movies, and this 
 won't phase me..." Wrong. Sure, you won't jump out of your seat much, but you will be at the least 
 unsettled playing this game. And that's a good thing - too many games use the same, disposable 
 tricks to provide suspense, and while FEAR doesn't rewrite the book, the things it does it does 
 really well.
  Of course, visually and aurally, FEAR rocks. It wouldn't pull off what it does without killer effects. 
 
  Despite a relatively short campaign with a really easy last level, this is a game with a lot of 
 replay value. Why? The AI is really just superb, which means any two players can approach a firefight 
 the same and the AI will respond appropriately according to the player's movements and tactics. 
 It's really impressive.
  If you like shooting things, and enjoy being uneasy for a good while, then get this game. It's 
 worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mewt2021
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 12, 2007 4:22 pm PT
Review:  F. E. A. R. was probably one of the best shock/FPS's on the 360 since Condemned. The game play was 
 really good. Unlike Timeshift where you have the ability to rewind and pause time, F. E. A. R. keeps 
 it simple by letting you slow time down. Loving the rag-doll effect in this game as well, the nailgun 
 makes it even better! The story was really good and in-depth. The A. I. was nice with the whole 
 they are aware of you thing going for them. The game has a great shock factor that will cause you 
 to knock off a couple off rounds at nothing. The multi-player was also a real enjoyment. The way 
 they had the slow-mo work in multi-player also turned out really nicely as well. Great game and 
 a must have 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zombieman666
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 6, 2007 8:41 pm PT
Review:  The Presenetaion....
  WIth a title like Fear you can expect this game to be creepy from the main menu screen music being 
 pretty creepy and just the box cover standing out fear is one of those eye catching games that 
 when you play you be like WTF is happening wich isn't bad its actualy pretty cool.
  
  The sound... The guns in fear sound prety decent but the soilders in the game saying flank him or 
 kill him i see him makes me just want to be like no don't come find me and it gives the game this 
 over all creepy feel to it wich i just love...
  
  The grahics in fear are prety good its dark and gives you that overall around creepy feel to the 
 game wich is great but alot of the building and things look the same wich is prety dissapointsing 
 
  
  the gameplay 
  Campaign Fear campaing is short and fun you be seing this little girl jsut pop out of no where 
 and these strange ghost things just flying at yo uand its prety like WTF but the game is dark and 
 will have you woundering around as you take on enimies in slow motion wich is always good and you 
 will need it alot since enimies can take alot of bullets and they well often bee lots of them shooting 
 at you at ones and fear is pretty hard because enimies will flank you ance it jsut a pain. while 
 fear is fun it gets realy broing and repeditive after a few hours but it picks back up and it has 
 its moments in time 
  
  the mulitplayer in fear is pretty fun its your standard game like death match and capture the flag 
 and there all prety fun still and thats why i would buy fear i think its like 30 bucks and its 
 prety fun mulitpalyer expericne 
  
  the presentaion 9.0
  the sound 9.0
  the grpahic 8.5
  the gameplay 7.5
  the mulitplyaer 8.0
  the value 7.0
  score 7.7
  rating 
 overall do to rounding 8.0 
  
  closting thoughts while yes fear has a lot of great elements it does get repeditive fast but multiplayer 
 does make up for it tho 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nokoronkwo
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 2, 2007 1:27 pm PT
Review:  Started playing this in the evening about two weeks ago after putting my kids to bed and found 
 the game fairly easy on the "moderate difficulty" setting. I love first person shooters and this 
 game does not disappoint. I would describe it as a hybrid of Half-Life 2 and Max Payne. A lot of 
 backgrounds reminded me of Half-Life and the scientific laboratory premise in the story. The use 
 of "bullet-time" from Max Payne provides you the advantage of killing multiple adversaries against 
 overwhelming odds by landing all of your shots. The story line is interesting and you enter into 
 dreamlike sequences at certain points in the game where the game's antagonist, a little girl, will 
 appear and kill you if you don't shoot her first. In these sequences you must make it through without 
 the girl killing you or you must return to the last save point. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: frankthelizard
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 13, 2008 10:18 pm PT
Review:  F. E. A. R, a wierd acronym for First Encounter Assualt Recon. FEAR came out a awhile ago for the 
 PC, now it's out for the Xbox 360 and Playstation 3.
  
  First off the graphics in FEAR are getting pretty stale as far as design goes. It always seems 
 like you are fighting in either industrial areas or batterd buildings, but when you get to one 
 of the "scarey worlds" where you are running down hospital hallways and when you get to the end 
 a little girl named Alma will appear and scare your pants off.
  
  The atmosphere in FEAR is probably the games strong point. When the action slows down and you are 
 running through one of the buildings, you will hear and see things that have happend in the past 
 or just plain wierd and scary things. When you see these moments, it will send a chill down your 
 spine. Unless of course you are playing in broad daylight.
  
  The story in FEAR is you are the FEAR frontman, a nameless soldier, who never talks, has a special 
 ability. That ability is the power to slow down time. It is essential to use while fighting your 
 enemy's, and if you don't you will die. You are sent to look for a cannibalistic man named Paxton 
 Fettel, he has created super soldiers to kill you, but luckily you are far more superior than them. 
 Along the way you have encounters with a mysterious girl named Alma. You really know nothing about 
 her, but as you progress through the game you find bits and pieces about her past. You do have 
 squad mates but they are never with you, they only talk to you on the radio but thats hard to hear 
 because they talk while you are shooting. It is a good thing that they are not with you because 
 it would make the game alot less scary. The way the game ended definitly leaves room for sequels 
 hopefully to come.
  
  The game controls can be frustrating at times. Mostly because every button on the controller has 
 a funtion. So you might be batteling with them once in awhile.
  
  The weapons in the game are very good and have a good punch. Probably the best gun or most enjoyable 
 to use is your trusty shotgun. It's very good when you turn your slow-mo on and get right up into 
 the enemy's face and if you hit them in the right spot, they will explode in a cloud of blood with 
 pieces of there body flying past you. It's also nice to see rag doll physics that make the game 
 a little more realistic.
  
  The AI is probably the best you will see in any video game. Your enemy's will talk to each other, 
 flank you, use cover, and throw grenades to stop you. So you can't just go runnin and gunnin, you 
 have to use cover or you will die. Sure this will cause a few frustrating moments but it never 
 gets old because the AI won't do the same thing over and over again. So you never feel like you 
 play the same thing twice.
  
  The sound is outstanding with creepy sounds of little girls crying and evil laughs, you know the 
 normal horror stuff. The music is also really creepy with it ramping up when the action is hot 
 and then toning it down when your walking down a deserted hallway.
  
  The single player campaign will take you about 10 hours on the lower difficulty's. When you crank 
 the difficulty up it would maybe take you 15-20 depending on skill level. When you reach the end 
 it will feel like you've come a long way since the beginning.
  
  The multiplayer is pretty good with game modes like Deathmatch, Team Deathmatch, and Capture the 
 Flag. Pretty much the standard game modes is most FPS games. Slow-Mo has its own mode which is 
 pretty exciting. It's always fun to shoot your friends head off then watch it fly through the air 
 in slow-mo. When his body lands just run over and give him the classic T-Bag.
  The maps range from big to small so all different size parties could play.
  
  Another mode 
 in FEAR is the Instant Action mode. This is where you are placed on one of the maps and you have 
 15-30 minutes to get as many kills as you can. While that is going on you have a score that goes 
 up by how many kills you have and how much style you have in your kill. This mode can get pretty 
 intense when there are a ton of enemys on screen at once.
  
  With all of those enemys on screen at once you probably are expecting framerate issues. There are 
 no framerate issues at all which was a surprise cause this came out quite awhile ago.
  
  This is not a point whorey game. The achievements are hard and will take quite along time to get 
 them all. I finishd the single player campaign with only 85 points. Do not let this be a turn off 
 though because the game is worth playing no matter what.
  
  So overall the game is superb but because of the level design and frustrating controls bring the 
 game down a little, but any FPS fan will have a ton of fun with this game and it is definitly worth 
 the bargin it is now.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: unbiasgamer
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 29, 2007 7:58 pm PT
Review:  F. E. A. R. is an acronym that stands for "First Encounter Assult Recon", a fictional, top-secret 
 unit in the US Army designed to deal with paranormal threats, specifically a battalion of cloned 
 super-soldiers taking orders from a telepathic leader. You are the point man of F. E. A. R., and your 
 strength and reflexes are off the charts. That is why you are called in to take out Paxton Fettel, 
 the super-soldiers telepathic leader who has an obsession with finding Alma, a scary little girl 
 who can kill any one with little more than her mind. 
  
  Your quick reflexs are represented by "slowmo". "Slowmo" lasts about 10 seconds, but as you collect 
 reflex boosters, the duration will increase substantially. You also have the ability to perform 
 martial arts, which all take place in first person. These melee attacks are pulled off very well 
 (and are especially cool in "slowmo") and help set this game apart from the truck load of FPS games 
 available for the 360.
  
  Two other things help F. E. A. R. stand out. First, is the combination of a horror theme in the game. 
 Your character, who remains nameless throught the whole game will have a vision every once in a 
 while, or sometimes, Alma will be looking through a window right at you, only to dissappear. These 
 occurances aren't random, and are part of what tells the story of F. E. A. R.. Unfortunatly, the other 
 part of the game that tells the story is recorded phone messages and files on laptop computers 
 lying around. You won't really get a lot of the plot from these messages, so it's good that the 
 game will be almost entirely explained in the last half an hour or so. One thing is for certain 
 though, F. E. A. R. ends with a bang. A big bang.
  
  The other thing that sets F. E. A. R. apart is the on-screen chaos. Bullets do not make neat little 
 holes when they hit a surface. They rip chunks out of the walls, and send dust into the air. When 
 grenades explode, you can see a round shock-wave expand, and any enemy within that area will explode 
 into a gruesome display of fleshy chunks and clouds of blood. Exploding fuel barrels dismember 
 enemies and shotguns can rip enemies in half. Sparks fly everywhere and enemies will yell curses 
 on their radios at you. A weapon called the "Penetrator" fires what are basically 9 inch metal 
 rods that can actually nail enemies onto walls, or staple them to cielings. No game before, or 
 after F. E. A. R. has ever created such dynamic gunbattles, that are especially remarkable during 
 "slowmo". Yes, this game earned its "M" rating.
  
  The enemy AI is also truly amazing. Enemies will flank you and play to their strengths and your 
 weaknesses. They have no mercy, and when they absolutely slaughter you, you won't be mad because 
 you know that the enemy used brains, not cheap tactics. One of the most interesting things is listening 
 to the enemies coordinating attacks against you. There are a variety of enemies, including "assasins", 
 agile soldiers that act like theyre straight out of the matrix and use cloaking devices. There 
 are also "heavys", which are large, armoured clone soldiers that lumber around, using their heavy, 
 heavy metal plating as cover.
  
  So, really, there are too many good things to be said about F. E. A. R.. It's really a one of a kind 
 game, and if your sick of playing average run-of-the-mill shooters with no creativity, or even 
 if youre looking for a new exciting game, you owe it to yourself to play F. E. A. R.
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: MartinWinthrop
Rating: 5
Date: Nov 23, 2007 8:28 am PT
Review:  All this game did really was accomplish a return to the old school first person shooter. It was 
 linear. It was all square. It was just - here you are in this situation now go. That was it. That 
 made it crappy for me. Also a big time turn off right away was the crappy controls. When I moved 
 forward, I felt like I was dancing more than I was walking. Another thing was the terrible gore. 
 You know, I little blood to make it realistic is okay i guess, but do we really need buckets and 
 buckets and buckets of it. No! That was dumb. It was as if the game creators really wanted to make 
 something scary so they did it by putting way over kill on the blood. Then there was the voice 
 acting on the bots. You knew they were the enemy by way of them talking, but they all had the same 
 radio voice. That was dumb. Then there was the voice acting of your team people. They would say 
 the "F" word. Who wants to play a game where they just sit there and say the "F" word all time. 
 And if you are going to say it, don' make it sound like you are acting like you are saying it. 
 Just say it. Biggest thing was thought that I was just bored. In one word, rental. or Crap. 5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: celtic1962
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 19, 2007 7:59 am PT
Review:  The first time I saw FEAR was a couple of years ago when I played the demo on my PC. It looked 
 like it had a lot of potential, and was one of those games that I was going to purchase eventually. 
 However over time I started playing my PC less and less as I went back to console gaming, first 
 with the PS2 and a couple of months ago the Xbox 360. After purchasing the 360 I was pleased to 
 see that FEAR was part of it's huge library of FPS and I didn't hesitate to pick it up.
  
  GAMEPLAY (9) - Since I bought the 360 I've been trying to get used to FPS games after many years 
 with the mouse and keyboard setup of the PC. I'm happy to say the FEAR does a great job with using 
 the controller. Probably the best aspect is that the aiming just feels very tight and the response 
 is just right. In the past I've played FPS games on the console and it felt like my aim was going 
 all over the place because the stick was just too loose. FEAR isn't quite up to using a mouse on 
 the PC but definitely one of the best on a console. You'll have an impressive list of weapons available, 
 including some futuristic ones, and they all feel very distinctive. Using the assault rifle will 
 feel much more satisfying than a machine pistol, though most of the weapons will have their moments 
 when they will be the most useful. The enemy AI was also impressive as the soldiers will use cover, 
 grenades and flanking to try to bring you down. This game uses the "bullet time" effect and it 
 becomes very useful as you will eventually get into some battles against a large number of enemies. 
 Almost all of the gameplay consisted of fighting, the only puzzle element involved occassionally 
 having to try to figure out how to get past a locked door. This was OK by me because the battles 
 were a lot of fun.
  
  GRAPHICS (7) - Probably the weakest part of this game. The graphics were adequate, but certainly 
 not impressive. In most cases I would say that they really were not much above what you would see 
 in a good PS2 game. The character models of the soldiers were done well, even though they all looked 
 exactly alike. The models of civilians were not very good, again on the level of a PS2 game. In 
 fact the graphics reminded me a lot of Splinter Cell on the PS2. There are a lot of repeating environments. 
 It seems like an endless stream of either warehouses or dark empty office buildings. This is not 
 a game you'd use to show off what the 360 can do.
  
  SOUND (9) - What it lacks in graphics it makes up for in sound. Going back to the weapons, not 
 only do they all feel distinctive but they all sound very unique as well, and the sound effects 
 were great. This game takes great advantage of surround sound speakers, and if you don't have that 
 use headphones! Music does not play a large part, though at times it was appropriately spooky.
 
  
  VALUE (7) - The value always gets a bit changed for me since I almost never buy a game when it 
 first comes out at full price. If I had bought this game for $60 I would have wanted a bit more, 
 but seeing as I spent $27 it wasn't too bad. I'm not sure exactly how long it took me to complete 
 this game but I'm guessing it was around 10-12 hours, about average for a FPS. Of course it also 
 offers multiplayer, which I hear is quite good but I have not yet tried it.
  
  SUMMARY - Despite the creepy cover this game will probably not frighten you that much. It does 
 involve an interesting story that earns its "M" rating and will occasionally gave you a jump. Unfortunately 
 the story mostly plays out by listening to phone messages as opposed to seeing actual cut scenes, 
 but you'll probably be enjoying the battles too much for that to bother you. Recommended for FPS 
 fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sleepysmoo2
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 8, 2007 11:20 am PT
Review:  I first played Fear on the PC, but didn't quite have enough umph to have the settings cranked up. 
 So I got it for xbox360, and was quite pleased with the addition of an instant action mode 
  
  This game's action is utterly awesome. The A. I. is challenging, especially on higher difficulty 
 settings, and will have you cursing the almost human-like qualities of the soldiers you fight. 
 The weapons look and sound great, and there's nothing like slowing down time and hitting someone 
 square in the face with a grenade, a booted foot, or a few rounds from a submachine gun. I enjoyed 
 every minute of this game, and the instant action modes are fun as well. I never really got into 
 the multi-player, but it's honestly not that bad. From my few experiences with it, if you like 
 that sort of thing, it's a game to check out. The one thing that prevented this game from getting 
 a 9.0 in my opinion is that the story-line has a few obvious plot-holes. The ending is a cliff-hanger, 
 and it doesn't really wrap up a few lingering questions. (Like how in the heck you came about, 
 and where you've been for the past 20 years) . However, it DOES do a good job of keeping you on 
 your toes; there are definitely a few spooky moments, and quite often you will find yourself advancing 
 in the game with your gun held ready, and looking for ANY sign of movement... only to see something 
 out of the corner of your eye...
  
  A good solid game, made better by the instant action modes and multi-player. I highly recommend 
 owning this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SDMF_TrueBlue
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 5, 2007 3:17 pm PT
Review:  F. E. A. R. was amazing when initially released for the PC. The translation to the 360 lost nothing 
 but time in the process. The graphics are solid but unimpressive on the machine that runs Gears 
 of War. The use of shadows is particularly excellent. My only real complaint is the lack of variety 
 to the environments and repitition of enemies. Controls are solid but take some getting used to. 
 Sounds effects are top notch and create amazing ambience that give this game a unique flavor. Music 
 is kept to a minimum which makes you really pay attention to other noises like footsteps, chatter 
 on the radio or among enemies, and random movements in the environment. The A. I. is the most impressive 
 I've seen in a shooter ever and is on par with Ninja Gaiden (Xbox) . Enemies coordinate attacks, 
 supress, cover, and flank. I never played the Live component of this game, but friends have told 
 me it is a lot of fun. At $30 this is one of the better FPS available on the 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spartan_lord
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 3, 2007 9:51 pm PT
Review:  This is one of those games that you play a little. you die... you pick it up again... you die again. but 
 it never stops you playing, the more you die the more you want to play, in both the multiplayer 
 and campaign.
  Graphics are pretty average to be honest but that doesn't hold the game back from being one of 
 the most addictive and fun multiplayer games i have ever played.
  Lag has never been an issue with this game (usualy a big issue from me being in new zealand) nothing 
 better then getting home and sitting down infront of the tv for rounds on end of death matches 
 especialy when you get those close matches when you each have 30 frags and theres 30 seconds left 
 on the clock. brilliant 
::::::

::::::
UserName: matthew_rs7
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 30, 2007 3:25 pm PT
Review:  The first thing I have to say about F. E. A. R is that this game is just downright awesome!
  
  Most scary games like Fatal Frame are indeed scary but they are also pretty boring and quiet at 
 times, but not F. E. A. R because Monolith did an EXCELLENT job at jumping between jumpy suspense 
 and crazy fps.
  
  One of the best aspects of the game is the ai, so many games the enemy is stupid, they see you 
 and follow you around a corner and are just too easy to outsmart, but if F. E. A. R the enemy takes 
 cover and tells his team to take cover, hide and do whatever they can to keep you dead and keep 
 them alive.
  
  One of my minor complaints is the graphics, lots of people say the graphics sucks but to me there 
 just fine, could be better but I'm fine with it, the sound is great, good gun sounds and voices 
 on the characters but if you listen carefully to the way your character walks, it sounds like music 
 and the paint cans sound like drums. Another thing i noticed about the sound is things like empty 
 bottles, mugs, paint cans are very loud when they move, which is great because if you walk over 
 one its loud and makes you jump, then you laugh at yourself because you go scared from a mug. Games 
 like fatal frame try to scare you with an image then make a loud noise after to scare you which 
 just doesn't work, but in fear they have the image plus the sound and the EXACT same time which 
 provides an excellent jump effect.
  
  the controls are good but one thing, if you accidentally press Y because your finger slipped then 
 you just wasted a med kit, which are critical to use wisely in the game.
  
  I really don't want to give away any scary parts in the game because once you play the game for 
 yourself you wont be scared because you will already know whats going to happen, So I would say 
 F. E. A. R should be in your top 5 games to buy because its worth it, scary (jumpy) , excellent ai, 
 fun shooter, not dull, and the lower graphic and dim and hard to follow storyline really don't 
 bring the games value down too much.
  
  This is also a game that I will DEFINITELY buy the expansion F. E. A. R Files, I give this game a 
 *Matthew Recommendation* 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xxbababooeyxx
Rating: 1.5
Date: Oct 29, 2007 11:40 am PT
Review:  This game certainly doesnt warrant the 8.6 of gamespot i know that for sure. the story is kinda 
 cool and creepy but it just doesnt bring ya all the way into the experince. i know im a cop and 
 im investigating some guy and paranormal activities but it doesnt go the extra step in explaing 
 the story. the controls are ok but there off as well. the firing of the weapons just isnt tight 
 it doenst feel right for some reason. neither is walking around sometimes it feels that your sliding 
 rather than walking it just isnt quite right. the game just lacks an overall polish. unlike almost 
 everyone else i believ that we have not made that much progress in the video game world. its been 
 over 20 years since nintendo and the video games just arent making enough progress. sure the online 
 is cool for games but thats not an invention of video game developers that was done by the guy 
 who invented the internet. we should be past the point where a game is made and it falls short 
 because of control issues. i wont support games that like and this is one of them. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ChiefFreeman
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 24, 2007 7:56 am PT
Review:  F. E. A. R. tells the story of a madman by the name of Paxton Fettel, who has taken control of a government 
 laboratory complex and slaughtered the security forces within. Fennel's ultimate goal is unclear, 
 but he is psychically linked to a group of cloned super soldiers under his control.
  
  You play as a nameless and faceless government operative known only as the pointman , who has super 
 human reflexes needed to defeat Fettel and his army. Throughout the game, you see ghostly images 
 of a little girl as well, known as Alma, who (without giving away spoilers) has an unusual connection 
 to both Fettel and yourself.
  
  F. E. A. R. was praised highly for it's intelligent enemy A. I., and the accolades are well deserved. 
 Not since the Halo series has there been a game where the enemies will react so differently each 
 time you play through. In addition to different attack patterns, the enemy soldiers will take cover, 
 rush you, and throw grenades in the right situations when firearms aren't their only option. It 
 really is impressive to say the least, and provides for some awesome firefights - especially on 
 the hardest difficulty.
  
  The other great complimentary feature to the A. I. is the games use of a John Woo style bullet time 
 effect, which temporarily slows time around you through the use of your hyper reflexes. It can 
 be only used for a few seconds until your bullet time bar is depleted, but it keeps the game very 
 balanced when you are fighting several clone soldiers at once. The effect also looks great, projecting 
 sort of an eerie aura around your characters vision, and particle effects like smoke and flying 
 sparks look awesome in this slow-mo view. No game since F. E. A. R. has managed to use this effect 
 to such a degree. In other words, it's pretty darn cool!
  
  What does drag the game down however, are the repetitive environments, as well as the lack of variety 
 in your foes. Like Doom 3, F. E. A. R. is a corridor crawler of a fps , and nearly the entire breadth 
 of the game is spent moving from warehouse to warehouse , shooting the same exact clone soldiers. 
 There are armored boss characters as well in each level, which provide an extra challenge, but 
 don't do enough to prevent the stagnant feel of the game.
  
  There are some great, spooky moments in F. E. A. R. involving the ghostly Alma character and Fettel, 
 as well as flashbacks in your mind, that gradually tell the tale of your connection to them both. 
 It's very well done, and on par with Doom 3's jump out of your chair scary moments. The Xbox 360 
 version of the game looks good, but isn't on par with the PC version. The water effects and lighting 
 look great, but the textures aren't as crisp, and the game only runs at 30 fps, which is a slight 
 letdown, considering fps's like Call of Duty 4 (which looks far better) are now running at a solid 
 60 fps.
  
  F. E. A. R.'s multiplayer mode is decent, but nothing spectacular. You have your standard deathmatch 
 modes, and capture the flag. Once again, the bland environments hinder the online experience. It's 
 not as fast paced as Unreal Tournament, nor as tactical as Halo. It's just rather average. The 
 weapons (though limited) do feel and sound good.
  
  The 360 version has the inclusion of a cool instant action mode, where you try to take out as many 
 enemies as possible in a limited time without dying. This is a nice addition.
  
  In the end, F. E. A. R. is a highly enjoyable shooter with amazing artificial intelligence -- but 
 the closed, repetitive environments drag the game down a bit. Since its pretty cheap now, it's 
 definitely worthy of a purchase, and at the very least - a weekend rental. --CF 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MallratsJaySB
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 18, 2007 11:54 pm PT
Review:  F. E. A. R. is one of the greatest first person shooters to come out in quite a while. Not only does 
 it have some very intense firefights, it has some of the best pacing for a horror game that gamers 
 have ever seen. A large chunk of the game is spent simply walking around dim corridors, blood soaked 
 hallways, and broken down buildings all for the sake of making the hair on the back of your neck 
 stand on end.
  
  There isn't much story to be found at the beginning of F. E. A. R. All you know is that in 2002, the 
 government created a new agency to take on paranormal threats and you are the front man. Somebody 
 named Paxton Fettel has taken control of cloned soldiers, entered the ATC building, and eliminated 
 everybody within those walls. You are sent to investigate and eliminate Fettel. But of course, 
 it isn't all as it seems. Why are you seeing apparitions? Who is that creepy little girl? Your 
 job is to find out.
  
  First person horror video games are hard to come by. Finding one of this high caliber is even tougher. 
 It seems that most first person horror games feel obligated to keep the action coming non-stop 
 because after all, it is a first person shooter. But that's usually where the game fails. Horror 
 video games are all about the pacing, ambiance, and imagery, not the gunfights and action. This 
 is where F. E. A. R. succeeds well beyond what many other horror video games have tried and failed. 
 Although prevalent throughout the entire length of the game, the first three intervals (which have 
 levels broken up in them) have the most unsettling feeling in any video game to date. Around nearly 
 every corner, blood will be dripping from the ceiling, you'll have a strange vision, or Alma, the 
 little girl, will be there to greet you in a truly terrifying way. There are a few gunfights here 
 and there throughout these three intervals, but a vast majority of your time will be spent nervously 
 navigating through the darkness hoping and praying that you won't wet your pants. Nothing can prepare 
 you for some of the truly outstanding freak out moments in F. E. A. R.
  
  However, most of the following intervals are heavy laden with shoot outs. It's not that these sections 
 aren't fun or designed well because they certainly are. It's just that after playing through the 
 well crafted and nerve-wracking first three intervals, the player will probably want more of the 
 same (unless their nerves are fried) . It's just a shame that the developers had to resort to the 
 tried and true gunfights of first person shooters rather than incorporate more freak outs and creepy 
 imagery.
  
  Luckily, the gunfights can be extremely intense. You will have a diverse array of weaponry at your 
 disposal that you can use to take down your enemies. The standard pistol, shotgun, and machine 
 gun are all present as well as unique guns like an armor piercer and a particle beam weapon which 
 will instantly melt the skin off of your target turning him into nothing but a burnt skeleton. 
 However, you can only carry three guns at a time so deciding which are more important in the upcoming 
 battle add a nice strategic level to the goings-on.
  
  The largest reason that the action scenes can be intense however are because of the excellent enemy 
 A. I. These enemies are smart. Damn smart. They will throw grenades to flush you out (which works 
 quite well if I may add) , flank your position, and communicate with each other to perform competent 
 actions. If there are multiple paths to get to where you are, you better watch your back because 
 chances are the enemies have already taken position. This game has some of the best A. I. I've ever 
 seen.
  
  To help you take on these formidable opponents, you will be able to slow down time (&agrave; la 
 Max Payne) while still moving at normal speed. These instances provide the best times to pop out 
 and shoot down a few bad guys. This isn't one of those games where you can just run and gun. Taking 
 cover is vital to your survival, so learning when to use this special power is a necessity.
  
  The largest problem with the gameplay isn't even a large problem in the big scheme of things 
 (which tells you a lot about the quality of the game) . However, it's still a minor detail that 
 deserves to be pointed out. Throughout the entire game, you'll pretty much only have one objective 
 -- find Paxton Fettel and kill him. Of course, there are other things going on, but your objectives 
 never really change. The game is more or less one big goose chase. A little more variation in the 
 objectives would have been nice, but with all of the frenetic action and outstanding ambiance, 
 it's doubtful the player will care too much.
  
  The Xbox 360 version of the game has a bonus mission previously unavailable on the PC. Without 
 a doubt, this is the worst mission in the game. It has no ghostly apparitions, creepy moments, 
 or challenge. It's basically a straight forward run-from-point-A-to-point-B type of mission. The 
 worst part is that you don't even play as the protagonist from the main storyline. You play as 
 a different person in the First Encounter Assault Recon team. Therefore, you don't have the ability 
 to slow down time or do anything cool. It's not a terrible level and since it's coming as a bonus, 
 who's to complain? But it probably would have been better to just leave this out altogether.
  
  There is also a mode called Instant Action that (can you guess?) puts you instantly into the 
 action. This is basically like the bonus mission -- it can be fun, but it's completely unnecessary. 
 As said before, the greatest success in F. E. A. R. is the amazing ambiance and imagery portrayed 
 throughout the length of the game. Playing through Instant Action mode is no different than playing 
 through any other FPS game on the market. You run, you shoot, you reload, repeat. There is no sense 
 of fear, therefore it's really just an exercise at copying a generic shoot-em-up. It's done very 
 well, but it can't touch the story portion.
  
  The graphics are outstanding. F. E. A. R. pushes the 360 to it's limits in terms of lighting and shadows. 
 No horror game is scary without the proper tone set through lighting and shadows, but thankfully 
 this game nails that aspect perfectly. Alma and the other apparitions look amazing as well and 
 the rivers of blood that you'll have to wade through during your images looks truly excellent. 
 Outside of a few nagging instances of clipping, there isn't much to complain about pertaining to 
 the graphics.
  
  The sound is another area of the game that is simply superb. Just like the lighting and shadows, 
 the sound is crucial to the success of that dreadful feeling persistent in the game. There is very 
 little voice acting due to the whole story being told through gameplay, but the small amount that 
 is present is done quite well. The F. E. A. R. team sounds just fine and the various messages you'll 
 encounter on answering machines sound authentic. However, nothing can compare to the creepy voices 
 and sounds you will hear during your exploration. Chills will run down your spine after hearing 
 what is going on in your surroundings (accompanied by the visuals of course) . The lack of music 
 also helped the tone of the game considerably. Silence is always scarier than a big musical score 
 in the background and this game took the smart road and went with subtlety over obvious jump scares.
 
  
  We need more games like F. E. A. R. This game proves that video games don't need to be packed with 
 endless action to be engaging. On the contrary, it shows that the exact opposite can be even more 
 effective if done right. This game isn't about big guns and violent action (although it has plenty 
 of it) . It's about the ambiance, imagery, and sense of dread it instills in the player. The scares 
 are smartly thought out and well placed, the graphics are gorgeous, the sound is near perfect, 
 and the gameplay is no slouch. Even though it does tend to get more action oriented in the later 
 stages, it stays consistently bone chilling and never wears out it's welcome. By combining the 
 best aspects of horror and first person shooters into one, the game manages to create one of the 
 most unsettling atmospheres yet seen in video games. F. E. A. R. is a must play game that any self 
 respecting gamer needs to check out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dewAMP88
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 12, 2007 11:44 am PT
Review:  The first day I got the game, I just couldn't put it down! I have read all the reviews, I have 
 listened to all the hype, but until I actually played F. E. A. R., I never knew what a pulse pounding 
 story I was missing out on! Had I known, I would have owned this game MUCH sooner! The campaign 
 storyline is cool, although a little difficult to figure out at first. The graphics are smooth 
 and lifelike.
  The gameplay is quite easy and very manageable.
  Voice audio and background music is done well, however some of the in game effects sound a tad 
 cheesy (walking sounds like you are galloping on a pony) .
  I don't want to give anything away concerning campaign storyline, I 'll let you to figure that 
 out on your own.
  Well worth the play!!
  
  Much like GOW, F. E. A. R. is all about the online play!
  Most of your achievements will be acquired 
 here online.
  So if you are one that is into the Multiplayer scene, THIS is another game for you!
  
  Great 
 job Vivendi Games!
  
  -AMP 
::::::

::::::
UserName: impl0sion
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 12, 2007 10:57 am PT
Review:  I spent about a week and a half thinking of games to buy, i was looking at chromehounds, DiRT, 
 overlord and Prey. I was attracted to chromehounds and prey because of the low price, to dirt because 
 i played the demo and it was very very good, and the same with overlord. But i played the demo 
 for this, and i loved it so much i couldn't not get this game. Its so involving.
  
  The basics, this is a great looking FPS with some awesome guns, most noticably the particle cannon, 
 which frazzles enemy's into a skelton instantly. The sound is great, the effects such as the bullet 
 time are great, its all great.
  
  The best way to describe it is to compare it to a scary movie. you know that bit where they are 
 about to go around the corner, and you know something will be there, and you find yourself nearly 
 yelling at the screen, don't go round the corner! well its like that. Only your the charachter. 
 And you have to go round the corner to find out what the hell is going on.
  
  It plays alot like a horror movie. It would be alot less scary if you had squadmates. Because the 
 solidarity is what scares you. You have to get this game, its definately a must buy. P. S. Dont 
 play in the daytime. trust me, it makes it so much better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spar_hawk
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 11, 2007 5:41 pm PT
Review:  FEAR is a Horror / FPS through and through and one of the best out there, with intelligent AI, 
 a very creepy atmosphere, and absorbent game play. The AI in FEAR is very intelligent and never 
 fails to make you do a level three times over to get past it. The atmosphere is very scary and 
 stops me from playing at night. And there's also the game play, intertwining insane gun fights 
 a good story and some of the best jump scares to boot. A must for anyone who likes a good shooter, 
 and scary enough to make even the most hardened of horror fans jump. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Benevolentbob
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 3, 2007 9:55 pm PT
Review:  This game has received great reviews and plenty of acclaim and popularity. All of this has made 
 me greatly look forward to playing this game. Alas, once I started playing it I found that the 
 combat was very sloppy, a lot like Timesplitters. Sometimes the graphics looked a bit fuzzy, almost 
 like it wasn't finished. Features that people claimed were original, like slowing down time, certainly 
 were not. Something I did like though, is the ghostly, or haunted moments. They got the moments 
 that make this game different than others down to perfection. In fact, those moments are the only 
 thing keeping my score above a 6.0. So the bottom line is, this game is essentially a very generic 
 shooter with one well done twist. Maybe try renting it, you could enjoy it and then come back here 
 and call me a weirdo for my opinion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShadowbladeX
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 3, 2007 1:28 am PT
Review:  F. E. A. R was originally released on the PC and blew people away with the fantastic gameplay, and 
 terrifying encounters. Now on Xbox360 the terror loves all over. For those who have not heard of 
 or played F. E. A. R before, you play the leader of a special squad that is sent to find and investigate 
 a strange individual in a old town. However soon after the investigations begin, not everything 
 is at it seems and freaky things happen that will make you jump and consider turning off your console. 
 Although initially dull, the storyline picks up and brings many twists and turns and bumps to keep 
 you rolling along stuck to the tv. The gameplay and actions are great, and you have a bullet time 
 that slows everything down and allows to to dodge fire easier. overall the transition from the 
 PC isn't all that different. The story and overall gameplay is the same and there is hardly anything 
 new really brought out to try and spruce it up. Luckily F. E. A. R is already such a good game it 
 holds it own still on the 360. Definately one you must play, and you must play it in the dark! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cobrax80
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 2, 2007 8:46 am PT
Review:  F. E. A. R is a FPS that takes place in a horror setting. It actually does this well and the game 
 has a very creepy feel to it and there are some instances in the game that will freak you out. 
 The game is pretty normal as far as FPS games go but the twist is not just that it's a horror game 
 but the ability to slow down time. This is the biggest draw of this game and it looks great. The 
 graphics in this game are great and after you you slow down time all the effects from the weapons 
 look amazing. The sound is also good and it really adds to the atmosphere of the game. The story 
 is pretty good as well. The multiplayer is pretty standard except for the ability to slow down 
 time and some other things. Overall this is a pretty solid FPS and horror game and I recommend 
 you at least rent it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sheridan64
Rating: 4
Date: Sep 30, 2007 4:15 pm PT
Review:  FEAR is an fps that lets you take the role of a private mercenary and you basically have to go 
 through an office building taking down
  hypnotized dudes with guns on your way to kill a vampire.
  (0) _ (0)
  
  sounds like a bargain 
 bin title doesn't it?
  not really, just more likely a game publisher ecided to rehash the old scenario lets put X game 
 on X system for a quick buck! 
  the game was a bloody good time but the pc version is really what you should get considering what 
 a cash-in this is.
  
  FEAR has some great weapons, like this one where it shoots a huge nail that nails dudes to walls.
 
  
  however there are times where glitches tend to freak you out more so then that little girl.
  
 
  this one time i was using mentioned bolt gun and my enemy just vanished!
  
  if you havent played it yet, get it, if you have got the pc version skip this cash-in and maybe 
 publishers will get the idea 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ACES_of_CRIME
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 25, 2007 11:22 am PT
Review:  IF you like something that plays or f***s with your mind...... This is for you. Its no real story 
 inDgame but it still keeps you on your sofa till your absolutly f***ed up.
  The graphics are alrigth but no quite 360 limits. You can activate slo-mo in F. E. A. R wich is nice.... 
 IN gamespots rewiew they said the control pad is clumsy but I actually found it alrigth..... But 
 you migth not... Who KNows... this. game gives. you adrenaline kicks sometimes coz of the scary content 
 but thats whats good in my point of wiew ..... The AI in this is ACE !  
 music is quite creepy to!  
 this is a horror fps its not only shooting guts of but its actually quite of a mind using game 
 at time to time. You do get to alot of places were you get stuck and have to find different ways 
 to walk the walk . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: waveddiamond
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 19, 2007 11:22 am PT
Review:  Fear starts off with you being an elite soldier trained to deal with unusual situation, you're 
 a rookie, but they seem to see pass that and see your true potential. you chase a psycho that escapes 
 and controls a super army of clones yea like in star wars. Then you start feeling sort of funny 
 you have all these amazing abilities you can see everything in slow motion and have reflexes like 
 a cheetah. all of a sudden you begin having strange flashbacks that lead you to your true origin 
 and the true evil behind the crisis around you. theres great graphics, which could have been alittle 
 more polish like the pc version, great sounds the level design is great the game scares you at 
 times and makes you feel like you are in a movie almost through the whole game. In conclusion F. E. A. R. 
 is a fusion between graw and the ring, its gotenks if you like. Apart from a great story mode yet 
 to be continued the multi-player is the strongest aspect in this FPS, you have a variety of game 
 modes from deathmatch to slow motion deathmatches. also you can choose to have no weapons and have 
 a brawl between 14 people its the strangest and funniest thing you'll ever see only one will stand. 
 You have your choice between different machine guns and there are other super weapons that you 
 can pick up along the way, trust me their is a gun for you to adapt to your form of game playing, 
 recently they have added more maps and more game modes to increase the replay value so far the 
 replay value is very great and this game didn't come out yesterday, unless you have an early copy 
 of call of duty 4, you should definitely buy this game its a must own 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HessenKnight
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 16, 2007 12:06 pm PT
Review:  There is only one way to describe F. E. A. R... the Ring meets John Woo, combining the elements of 
 a survival horror game with action elements. You play as a trooper with freakishly fast reflexes 
 who is trained to deal with paranormal situations. Well, you've got a new assignment. An ex-commando 
 takes control of a cloned army... no, his name isn't Jango Fett. The problem, of course, is that 
 he threatening the other-wise peaceful town of Auburn, and video-footage shows him... erm, indulging 
 in a security guard filet. It's your job to put the lid on the situation before it breaks out. 
 Now, let's talk about the actual game. First off, the game looks absolutely phenomenal. The shadows 
 are smooth and seamless, the lighting is superb, and the scripting is absolutely incredible. The 
 game also successfully ties in the visual elements into the gameplay. Bullets kick up dust, making 
 it harder to see, giving you an incentive to keep your trigger finger trained. The enviornment 
 ligetimately deteriorates, giving you the feeling of relief and a sense of power when a fight is 
 over. The fights are intensive, as the superb A. I. communicate with eachother, act and work as 
 a team instead of bouncing around, going around each other. When they can't find you, they often 
 split into pairs, and they'll call for help, alerting other groups in the area. The A. I. realisticly 
 navigate the enviornment, as there are never any path-finding issues. Which brings us to the issues 
 of this game...
  
  There are alot of physics bugs, as the enemies will get stuck in walls or doorways when killed. 
 It happens a bit more than it should, but it isn't TOO bothersome.
  
  Ontop of that, the variety isn't the best. You'll fight wave after wave of similar, yet intelligent, 
 enemies that barely differ from each other. There are around ten types of enemies which is a paltry 
 few compared to other games. The weapons aren't too unique either. There's the run of mill pistols, 
 SMGs, shotgun, and rocket launchers, but they aren't to unique or different than most games. The 
 most unique is a laser rifle that melts enemies, which is cool, but it's sad that there weren't 
 more unique weapons like this. If the enemie's variety worried you, take a deap breath. The enviornments 
 usually consist of office after office, and usually a construction site. It's sad when a game it's 
 self is good, but there's pratically one playing field.
  
  The scripting is the best to be used in a game so far. Subtle, yet obvious moments happen in the 
 game, which leads to a build-up to the moment where the game blatantly uses teh skariez on you. 
 It's a great change of pace compared to most games. The scripting is totally seamless, as there 
 aren't any hiccups in the scripted events, and they appear in a fluid and visually appealing fashion, 
 which helps the game scare the pants off of you in a fresh and efficient formula.
  
  Overall, if you haven't already finished the game on the PC, there's little incentive to buy the 
 360 version. It's a good looking game, yet it cannot compete with the visual quality of the PC 
 version. On a final note, the 360 version has an extra Instant Action mode, which is an arcade 
 styled frag-fest against the superb A. I. The problem is that there are only four maps, and each 
 can be completed in about 10 minutes. Also, there's the bonus mission mode, which is a level in 
 the perspective of a different F. E. A. R. trooper. It lasts 10 minutes, and barely sheds any light 
 on the story line. So it fits the title of Tidbit rather than a bonus mission. The final verdict? 
 If you have the PC version, don't check the console version out uness it happens to end up in the 
 bargain bin, or if you can just rent it. But if you can't afford a monster rig, this is a good 
 way to get into the F. E. A. R. experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Freezeryder
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 10, 2007 9:45 am PT
Review:  Now, I know this game was a complete showstopper a few years ago. I even think it won some awards. 
 So why was the first word out of my mouth when I completed this thing: Meh.. ?
  Let's delve deeper shall we? FEAR is a good game, no doubt about it. It has some solid mechanics, 
 and interesting storyline and when the bullets start flying it really cranks it up to 11 with screams, 
 debris and general mayhem... BUT... there's something sorely out-dated and unsatisfying about the 
 whole thing.
  
  Ok, the story is pretty much Ring meets Ghost Recon and seems pretty interesting. Mark the word 
 seem . You see, for reasons unknown, there are no subtitles. Of course, we're all familiar with 
 the english language here, but the problem is that it's quite hard to hear what the heck they're 
 mumbling about on the myriad of phone-messages etc. you'll be listening in on during the course 
 of the game. The idea here, is of course to give you deeper insight to the whole affair, which 
 is nice, but on a standard TV with standard audio out-put it quickly becomes a case of he said 
 what in the who now? Of course, this problem can be fixed with a proper soundsystem and whatnot, 
 but let me give a message to all the game developers out there anyhoo: Never, but NEVER assume. 
 So yeah... I had next to no idea what the story was actually about. There's a little girl named 
 Sadako - SORRY - Alma, and she's bad. Very bad. Probably had one too many time-outs as a child. 
 I think she also has a mother, though I may be mixing things up with the decade-old Japanese masterpiece.
 
  It's horror, that's for sure. And when the game wants to freak you out, it does so quite satisfactory. 
 I give a special tip-o'-the hat to the strange visions you'll sometimes experience. They are really 
 cool and genuinly nightmarish. Blood everywhere.. Things upside down... strange shadows - good 
 stuff.
  On to the gameplay. This is were the game gets pretty standard. Basic quality 1. person shooting 
 fun, with a few twists and a few knobs. Twists would be the abilty to enter slo-mo mode and kill 
 everyone in glorious... erm.. slow-motion - and due to the fact that the enemy AI is pretty impressive 
 you'll need that extra oomf in your guns and the speed-wise upperhand that slo-mo provides on many 
 occasions. It's been done before, of course, but it's still pretty cool. Another twist is the nail-gun, 
 which actually nails your enemies to the wall or whatnot. Nice detail. Now let's discuss the knobs 
 - the twist's ugly cousin. Enemies are pretty damn boring. There basically three different bad-guys: 
 The special ops soldier, the robot and the big robot. That's it. For a para-normal horror shooter, 
 that's a bit stale, innit? I mean give us some freaks, ghosts or zombies for crying out loud! But 
 no... soldiers and robots for us. The checkpoint system and inclusion of medi-kits is also something 
 that should've gone out with powdered wigs. The checkpoints can be painfully irregular and will 
 often require you to take on several armies, a few missile-spewing robots and then more armies 
 before letting you check the point . And since the game isn't exactly on the easy side, this quickly 
 becomes annoying. I found myself with wide eyes and dropped jaw whining: I have to do it ALL OVER 
 again??? a time too many. Luckily you can adjust the difficulty level at any time, but at the cost 
 of that sweet, sweet achievement.
  
  All in all - I can see why the game was so impressive BACK THEN. But things have changed and please.. 
 enough with the little black-haired girls ok? We gotta find a new scare... My money is on senile 
 old folks with clown make-up and blunt weapons. For you horror fix, I actually recommend Condemned 
 over this - from the same developer. I've had several discussions about it, but I find it to be 
 more intense, scary, original and fun than FEAR. So, FEAR is awright. That's it. It's probably 
 also the best game on PS3.. which is more of a rant on PS3 than the game itself. Oh yes, I went 
 there! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Widow360
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 9, 2007 5:18 pm PT
Review:  F. E. A. R. is one of the best games i ever played. From the start to the end. The game just didn't 
 let down. The story line was great. The weapons on the game was kick azz. They was no part of this 
 game that was a let down. I give it thumbs up all the way. I just hated that i beat it. Now i can't 
 wait till the 2nd part comes out. I will be getting that soon as it comes out. F. E. A. R. is a must 
 buy. If you ain't played it. You need to cause you will love it. The online play of the game is 
 so sweet too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lilhawkkid182
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 5, 2007 4:59 pm PT
Review:  When F. E. A. R first came out on the PC I was a bit shocked at how well it was recieved. F. E. A. R 
 is a game that tries to capitalize on the success of supernatural thrillers such as The Ring and 
 The Grudge, the game even has its own creepy little girl. The good reviews alone were not enough 
 to convince me to go out and buy the game. So when the multiplayer became a free download in the 
 F. E. A. R Combat package, I immediately downloaded it so I could see what all the fuss was about. 
 After I installed the game I could clearly see what was so great about F. E. A. R and I was really 
 looking forward to the single player.
  
  Since I already had a free version of the multiplayer game I just decided that a rental was all 
 that needed from the Xbox 360 version of F. E. A. R. To be completely honest I almost felt ripped 
 off from just the rental. LIke I said before the game tried to bring the supernatural movie genre 
 to the gaming world and I absolutely hate those types of movies. To be completely honest the last 
 time that I enjoyed one of those movies would have to be back when The Sixth Sense came out years 
 ago. The story although a little tense at times feels very scripted and the dialogue is not all 
 that great either. Most of the scripted scenes you can see coming from a mile away, so you are 
 prepared for them by the time that it happens (this really takes away from the awe factor as well) .
 
  
  On the plus side the game does have some pretty good graphics, but they are the exact same as the 
 PC game that came out a year before so when you take that into account they are no where near as 
 good as they should be. Next to talk about the sound in the game. When the sounds don't match the 
 animations on the screen you know something is wrong. Also while playing the game I kept on thinking 
 about how much better the game controls using the keyboard and the mouse instead of the Xbox 360 
 controller.
  
  The multiplayer is the only saving grace of this game. It is fun, frantic, and easily the most 
 intense part of the game in whole. The sad part is though that this part is free on your PC. So 
 if you have a somewhat decent PC there is almost no need for you to buy this game, as the single 
 player will get you through a rental period. If you dont have a PC that can play F. E. A. R Combat 
 than you and only you should but this game and it should be for the multiplayer game. I know Im 
 going to most likely get bashed for this review, but somethings belong on the silver screen and 
 even then they are not always that great. Final Verdict: F. E. A. R tries to bring a movie like experience 
 to gaming, but the single player falls flat and the multiplayer is a free PC download 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RawSushiSociety
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 4, 2007 7:10 am PT
Review:  The first time i got this game i though it of actually scary. After playing it through a few times 
 it doesnt get as scary but my first time was enough to convince me that it did have a nice blend 
 of horror. The firefights are very realistic with eneimies shooting and hidng from you, the bullets 
 shredding the enviroment and sending out clouds of debris that makes the air around you dusty and 
 hard to see in. Their is also a nice choice from weapons. Everything from a Mars Attacks style 
 ray gun to a spike gun that can impale enimies up against walls with a satisfying effect. This 
 game is a must play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: petervenkman
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 3, 2007 6:32 pm PT
Review:  F. E. A. R. was one of the top first-person shooters for the PC last year, and now it comes to the 
 360. And, oh, does it come. F. E. A. R. was known for its intense firefights, innovative gameplay, 
 gorgeous graphics, and of course, the parts that scare the crap out of you. The 360 port has all 
 of those things, and there seems to be no difference between the PC version and the Xbox 360 version. 
 F. E. A. R. stands for First Encounter Assault Recon, they seem to mainly deal with paranormal incidents 
 and they go in to investigate. First of all, F. E. A. R. is a scary game, scarier than Doom 3, by 
 far. At times in the game you will encounter a little girl named Alma. And when you do see her 
 there will be some crazy s*** going on. She is the reason why most people will want to turn the 
 TV off and go pee themselves. The game has some REALLY terrifying moments. The story centers around 
 Alma and how she fudged everything up. F. E. A. R. starts out with Alma freeing a lunatic that has 
 a telepathic link between him and a group of elite soldiers. You find out that he likes to literaly 
 eat he victims. So it is your job to go in, secure the area, and kinda save the world. The game 
 has a pretty high difficulty and can be frustrating in some points in the game, but that won't 
 keep you from being amazed of how well done the firefights are. They are some the most intense 
 firefights I have ever experienced in a game. The thing they throwed in to cool down the firefights 
 is slow-motion. Yes, they have have done this in other games, but in F. E. A. R. it is almost a necessity 
 to use in order to survive. The graphics of F. E. A. R. is the thing that makes the game shine. Although 
 they could have textured things up a bit more. Just the look of the blood and the bullet sparks 
 are a thing to beheld. The sound is a another great quality of F. E. A. R. The ambient music is something 
 that will send a chill down your back. F. E. A. R. is one of those games that is memorable, but not 
 a game that will send you off your feet; it still is a great game that shoul not be missed nonetheless. 
 Rent it, but if you are a hardcore fan of the FPS genre and like the horror type of game, it is 
 a buy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zebu9
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 2, 2007 6:02 am PT
Review:  F. E. A. R is an amazing game. It has one of the intense actions on the block. Although you will be 
 fighting the same couple of enemies again and again, but the enemy AI is soo soo good. It is one 
 the best I have seen so far in a game. The enemies will flank you, they will run for cover, they 
 will throw furniture upside down, they will work in group, they will find alternate routes to get 
 you. Man the fire fights are seriously awesome. You shoot them in the leg they will limp. Basically 
 this game has the coolest enemy animations I have ever seen. This game gets fairly easy because 
 of the wealth of abundance of health packs and health and reflex boosters. But its the slow-motion 
 effect that is really well implemented. Especially if you have a shotgun you can see the devastating 
 effects. The music &amp; sound designer of F. E. A. R deserves an A+++ this game has one of the best 
 sound settings. When I saw the trailer of this game, I thought I would be fighting the little girl 
 all the time, but no, the game designers have implemented this thing really very well. The game 
 is seriously not for faint hearted. I was scared to death quite a few times, &amp; every time that 
 little girl showed up &amp; the best part is they have not overdone the girl. Like she not around 
 all the time and become predictable. She is there when you least expect her to be.
  Having said all that this game has its weaknesses. The game graphics are not as good as one hope 
 from a 360 game. Secondly whoever was the game level designer should be fired. The only thing between 
 this game &amp; being a AAAAAA game is its level design, they are confusing and boring. Seriously 
 the level gets repetitive. Except for that this is a game worth playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Flakor
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 1, 2007 2:06 pm PT
Review:  FEAR (First Encounter Assault Recon) is one of those games that as soon as you start playing you 
 know its going to be fantastic. The game puts you into the boots of an Unknown Solider of F. E. A. R 
 sent in to discover what has happened at ATC (Armacham Technology Corporation) which recently became 
 under attack by what can only be described as a Clone Army being controlled Telephathically by 
 a man by the name Paxton Fettel.
  
  Naturally, as soon as your seperated from your squad they get killed, so from then on you must 
 continue on your own. When I first saw the Clones, I thought they'd be push overs... boy was I wrong...
 
  These Clones are some of the smartest enemies I have ever fought in a game. They create make-shift 
 cover, throw Grenades to flush you out, flank you, and utterly destroy you. The worse thing is 
 that these are just Basic Infantry...
  
  But, the game isn't all action, there are points in the game where it slows down... but then you 
 experience one of the best parts of FEAR... the Hallucinations. In these Sequences, you usually 
 find yourself confronted by either Paxton Fettel or Alma, a small girl in a Red Dress who reminds 
 me of the girl from the Ring. Usually she is accompanied by a huge wall of flames. Much of the 
 plot is hinted in these, and won't be explained to the end. The plot in F. E. A. R is probably the 
 best I've seen in a long long time. It keeps you guessing the whole way through. Most of it is 
 presented by the Hallucinations or Phone Messages and E-Mails that you read. Even then, you won't 
 understand it all till the very end in which all is revealed. I will not speak of the ending. When 
 the credits hit, I sat there motionless through them all, because I couldn't believe what I had 
 seen and heard.
  
  One interesting thing put into the game is the Boosters. One boosts your total health by 5, while 
 another increases your time in Reflex Time. Reflex Time, is basically bullet time, but twice as 
 exciting. Usually its used for getting an advantage against the Replica Forces, and also makes 
 everything look awesome. The Weapons of F. E. A. R are truly a delight. Personal favorites include 
 a Sniper Rifle-ish weapon that fires a concentrated bolt of Electricity (so I assume) so powerful 
 it will turn your Replica foes into Skeletons! The best weapon though, I will say, is the Shotgun, 
 it tears through the Replica Troops and is great for all the Close Quarters Combat your going to 
 be doing with the Replicas. The enviroments are usually Urban Areas and Indoors. Most have complained 
 about this, but for me its a delight. The Replicas are deadly in these chokepoints and it makes 
 the game all the more difficult. I remember this one time I ran into a room, all I saw was a table 
 flipped over and a whole squad of the Replicas with their guns aimed at me... they chewed me up. 
 Next time I ran in, I threw a Grenade and they scattered, after wards I pursued them through the 
 area, where ever they could do it, they'd make cover and hold their ground against me. Overall, 
 F. E. A. R is one of the most action packed, story driven, scariest games out there. Though this also 
 came out for the PC, the 360 version is still just as good and in fact feels a little bit easier 
 to control. I definatly recommend this game if you are looking for a FPS that has a fantastic story 
 and one that will give you a amazing challenge (god-damned Ninjas) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: untitledcause
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 31, 2007 7:48 pm PT
Review:  Dont get me wrong. I liked F. E. A. R a lot. The thing is I went into thinking that the game was 
 going to be the scariest experience that I would have on a video game system. This is where I was 
 wrong as it is not that scary. Sure, it has its moment or two (at the beginning of the game) but 
 the rest of the game is just creepy. You will walk down various hallways thinking something will 
 happen but it never does. It was a disappointment to me as I was looking forward to jumping out 
 of my skin. The rest of the game though, from the enemy AI to the slow-mo fighting system, is beautiful. 
 The fights in the game are crafted really well and are large in number. The story is good, if not 
 a little hard to follow but ties of nicely for a sequel. Overall, it was a good FPS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SUPER-MAN_2005
Rating: 5.5
Date: Aug 31, 2007 11:51 am PT
Review:  Have you played Farcry? This is farcry with a little slow motion slapped onto it. I was disappointed 
 in this game because seeing as how it is remade on 360, there should be a little more flare. Then 
 it starts off letting you believe its scary, but shows you otherwise, 10 minutes later you see 
 how the game is gonna be then on... a continuous shootout against the same soldiers over and over 
 again. Perfect dark would be a better choice. It is a little more realistic. It does look good, 
 but looks aren't everything. This is a next generation console game and the same thing over and 
 over is tiring. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MaxPayneJr
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 30, 2007 4:39 pm PT
Review:  This game really brings it to the table. I loved the fighting in Fear. Fighting in fear is amazingly 
 realistic. The A. I. is really the most amazing part of FEAR enemies rolling ducking, attempting 
 to flank you whenever they can and doing cool moves through windows. The effect the player has 
 on the enemies through slow time and firing are excellent making you feel like you really just 
 shot somebody point blank with a shot gun. This game has a scary side to all the Adrenaline pumped 
 fighting. The scary parts are immersive and scripted but with the player in full control of his 
 characters movement making it feel even more scary considering your the one cautiously moving your 
 character
  
  an all around great revisit to FEAR 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xenobane
Rating: 3
Date: Aug 28, 2007 7:04 am PT
Review:  F. E. A. R was good for about a week shortly got bored of it. its one of thsoe games that go on and 
 on and on and it really gets on your nerves it must be a rent out and not a buy.. i truly do regret 
 buying it now and i really wish i can turn back time to stop me from buying it.. i was really dissapointed 
 in it and hope it can be remade but better graphics better gameplay more to do in it.. its more 
 of a doom rip off yes some parts do make you jump but shortly after you relise how non scary the 
 game is its a recommended rent out first 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigb89
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 27, 2007 11:03 am PT
Review:  Gameplay
  
  F. E. A. R. simulates combat from a first-person perspective. The protagonist's body is fully present, 
 allowing the player to see his or her character's torso and feet while looking down. Within scripted 
 sequences, when rising from a lying position or fast-roping from a helicopter for example, or climbing 
 ladders, the hands and legs of the protagonist can be seen performing the relevant actions. The 
 game's environments are largely urban-styled and indoor; this element has received criticism.
 
  
  A prominent gameplay element is reflex time, which slows down the game world while allowing the 
 player to aim and react at normal speeds. This effect is used to simulate the character's superhuman 
 reflexes. Reflex time is represented by stylized visual effects, such as bullets in flight that 
 cause air distortion or interact with the game's particle effects. F. E. A. R. lead designer Craig 
 Hubbard stated that Monolith Productions' primary goal was to make combat as intense as the tea 
 house shootout at the beginning of John Woo's Hard-Boiled. He continued on to say that defeating 
 ... enemies ... with style was crucial to this goal and that reflex time plays a large role in 
 making the player feel like an action movie hero. 
  
  The game contains weapons based on non-fictional firearms, such as pistols, assault rifles and 
 submachine guns, as well as entirely fictional armaments like particle beam weapons. Each firearm 
 differs in terms of ammunition type, accuracy, range, fire rate, damage and bulkiness. The latter 
 characteristic affects the player's character, as more cumbersome weapons slow the player's maneuvers. 
 Monolith Productions stated that it aimed for a balanced arsenal where each weapon serves a specific 
 function, rather than just going with a bunch of real-world submachine guns and assault rifles. 
 F. E. A. R.'s heads-up display crosshair's size dynamically shows where shots will fall based on movement, 
 aim and the weapon in use. The player may carry only three firearms at a time; thus, strategy is 
 required when using and selecting weapons. All weapons possess m&ecirc; l&eacute; e attacks, and 
 a hand-to-hand combat system allows unarmed players to attack with maneuvers including punches 
 and kicks.
  
  F. E. A. R.'s artificial intelligence allows computer-controlled characters a large degree of action. 
 Enemies can duck to travel under crawlspaces, jump through windows, vault over railings, climb 
 ladders and push over large objects to create cover. Various opponents may act as a team, taking 
 back routes to surprise the player, using suppressive fire or taking cover if under fire. The game's 
 artificial intelligence is often cited as being highly advanced, and its efficiency helped the 
 game win GameSpot's 2005 Best AI Award. 
  
  Multiplayer
  
  F. E. A. R.'s multiplayer component includes mainstay gameplay modes, such as Deathmatch, Team deathmatch, 
 Capture the flag and Last man standing. Control and Conquer All gametypes were later added through 
 a patch. These new gametypes feature rules similar to Unreal Tournament's Domination gametype. 
 Some gametypes in F. E. A. R.'s multiplayer utilize the reflex time effect: SlowMo Deathmatch, SlowMo 
 Team deathmatch and SlowMo Capture the flag. In multiplayer, a power-up must be collected to enable 
 this ability. As each map contains only one such power-up, acquiring it gives players a large advantage 
 over their opponents.
  
  On August 17, 2006, F. E. A. R.'s multiplayer component was retitled F. E. A. R. Combat and made available 
 for free download. Downloaders of F. E. A. R. Combat and owners of F. E. A. R.'s retail edition may play 
 together online.
  
  The Xbox 360 and PlayStation 3 versions, just like the PC edition, only have online multiplayer. 
 There is no split-screen local play.
  
  Atmosphere
  
  A core element of F. E. A. R. is its horror theme, which was heavily inspired by Japanese horror. 
 The design team attempted to keep the psychology of the encounter in the player's mind at all times, 
 in order to get under the player's skin , as opposed to the in your face 'monsters jumping out 
 of closets' approach . Lead designer Craig Hubbard stated in an interview that horror is extremely 
 fragile ... you can kill it by spelling things out too clearly and you can undermine it with too 
 much ambiguity . He remarked that he attempted to strike a balance with the narrative elements 
 of F. E. A. R., to give players enough clues so that they can form their own theories about what's 
 going on, but ideally they will be left with some uncertainty . Lead level designer John Mulkey 
 stated, Creating expectation and then messing with that expectation is extremely important, predictability 
 ruins a scary mood .
  
  The main source of the game's horror is Alma, a ghostly little girl. Craig Hubbard remarked that 
 a guy in a mask chasing co-eds with a meat cleaver can be scary, but on some level you're thinking 
 to yourself you could probably kick his ass if you got the drop on him ... but when a spooky little 
 girl takes out an entire Delta Force squad, how are you supposed to deal with that? While Alma 
 has been compared to the character Samara from The Ring, Craig Hubbard stated that she was born 
 out of a tradition of eerie, faceless female ghosts and not as an answer to any specific movie 
 character . Hubbard acknowledged that Alma admittedly bears some visual resemblance to the ghosts 
 in Dark Water or S&eacute; ance, but creepy little girls have been freaking [him] out since The 
 Shining .
  
  F. E. A. R.'s audio was designed in the style of Japanese horror films, with the sound engineers using 
 inexpensive equipment to create sound effects, utilizing methods including dragging metal across 
 different surfaces and recording pump sounds. Monolith Productions commented, The sound designers 
 had to be concerned with avoiding predictability, since [l] isteners are smart ... they will recognize 
 your formula quickly and then you won't be able to scare them anymore. Silence was also utilized 
 in order to allow players to fill in the space, which lets their imagination create their own personal 
 horror .
  
  Monolith Productions composed F. E. A. R.'s music in reaction to scenes, instead of creating a formula 
 that would consistently produce music throughout the game . The design team called F. E. A. R.'s music 
 structure more cerebral and tailored to each individual event , and continued that sometimes the 
 music is used to ratchet up the tension to toy with players ... it will build to a terrifying crescendo 
 before cutting off without a corresponding event, only to later have the silence shattered by Alma, 
 when players least expect it. 
  
  F. E. A. R.'s horror theme was praised by critics. Game Informer claimed that ... the frequent spooky 
 head trips that Monolith has so skillfully woven together make an experience that demands to be 
 played. IGN opined that the environment has been so well-crafted to keep you edgy and watchful 
 ... [that] playing the game for a few hours straight can get a little draining. GameSpot reacted 
 similarly, calling F. E. A. R.'s horror exceedingly effective, and agreeing that it can leave you 
 a bit emotionally exhausted after a while. 
  
  Synopsis
  
  Plot
  
  The story of F. E. A. R. is presented in such a way that only a few minor plot elements are presented 
 in the game's beginning, thus allowing players to experience the adventure as the hero [es] in [their] 
 own spine-tingling epic of action, tension and terror. The manual briefly mentions the player character's 
 recent induction as Point man to the F. E. A. R., a secret special operations group of the U. S. government 
 specialized in dealing with paranormal threats. The character's extraordinarily reactive reflexes 
 are described as well, hinting that the government is interested in his abilities. When the game 
 begins, the player witnesses a man named Paxton Fettel taking command of a battalion of telepathically 
 controlled clone supersoldiers, seizing control of the Armacham Technology Corporation (ATC) structure 
 and killing all its occupants.
  
  Now fully in control of the Point Man, the player attends a briefing held by Commissioner Betters, 
 in the company of his F. E. A. R. team-mates Jankowski and Jin Sun-Kwon. The team's mission consists 
 of eliminating Fettel, operating in conjunction with Delta Force.
  
  Fettel is located by means of a satellite tracking device and hunted by F. E. A. R. and Delta Force 
 over several locations. The search for Fettel begins at a water treatment plant and later continues 
 at Armacham headquarters. While the villain evades capture by the special forces, the player witnesses 
 unexplained and occasionally life-threatening paranormal phenomena, including frequent hallucinations, 
 all of which center around a little girl in a red dress named Alma. Laptops found during the course 
 of the mission, hacked by Commissioner Betters, provide details regarding the background story. 
 The player learns that Fettel was raised to become a telepathic military commander as part of ATC 
 project Origin. He is the son of Alma, who is described as being a powerful psychic. The player 
 also learns of the existence of another child of Alma, who was before Fettel.
  
  All clues lead F. E. A. R. to believe Fettel is under control of Alma, who was buried within the Origin 
 facility when ATC closed down the project because of the danger posed by the woman. Now the villain 
 is searching for that same facility to free his mother. The player eventually takes the Point Man 
 to the abandoned structure, fighting back both the clone soldiers and ATC, whose security agents 
 have received orders to cover up the whole affair. When the protagonist finally comes face-to-face 
 with Fettel, he is drawn into a hallucination where the player learns that the Point Man is Alma's 
 first son. After this hallucination, the player is able to kill Fettel. Nonetheless, Alma is freed 
 when her storage chamber is opened by an ATC researcher, Harlan Wade, who feels guilty about the 
 company's treatment of her; eventually, it is revealed Alma shares Wade's name, implying that he 
 is her father. The player is then called upon to sabotage the structure's reactor, to destroy the 
 facility. In the aftermath of the detonation, a Delta Force UH-60 Black Hawk extracts the Point 
 Man from the rubble. While the player and the survivors of the F. E. A. R team survey the results 
 of the explosion from the helicopter, Alma makes one last appearance, preparing to pull herself 
 up into the helicopter's cabin. The destruction of the Origin facility has not stopped her quest 
 for revenge.
  
  After the game's credits, the player can listen to a phone call between a mysterious senator and 
 ATC president Aristide, which offers some further explanation: The president considers the project 
 under control and deems the first prototype (ostensibly the Point Man) a success.
  
  Characters and organizations
  
  During the course of the game, the player interacts with a 
 number of different characters from various organizations. Some of them are allies, such as the 
 F. E. A. R. and Delta Force team members, while others are hostile, such as Fettel's soldiers and 
 some ATC personnel. The player's character never speaks, and instead participates in one-sided 
 discussions with other characters. On occasion, the Point Man is required to hand a communicator 
 to other characters, allowing them to speak over the F. E. A. R. team radio. No artificial intelligencecontrolled 
 characters fight alongside the player in F. E. A. R., except for during some sequences in the expansion 
 Extraction Point.
  
  Development
  
  F. E. A. R. was announced at an E3 2004 pre-show, though its existence as an untitled project was 
 revealed prior to this announcement. The game's first trailer later premiered at E3 2004 and was 
 well-received by critics. During the E3 2004 showing, F. E. A. R.'s lead designer, Craig Hubbard, 
 stated that the game evolved out of a concept we started developing right after Shogo that we've 
 been dying to work on. Monolith Productions' director of technology, Kevin Stephens, later elaborated 
 that this concept was to make an action movie in a first-person shooter, where you really feel 
 like an action star. To this effect, the team focused on immersing the player, utilizing elements 
 like a silent, nameless protagonist with an unknown background, and allowing the player to see 
 the protagonist's body when looking down or sideways.
  
  During 2005, F. E. A. R. made playable appearances at Consumer Electronics Show, Game Developers Conference 
 and E3, all of which were well-received. Its showing at E3 garnered it the Game Critics Award for 
 Best Action Game. After the release of a single-player demo, Vivendi allowed gaming journalists 
 to play through the first four levels of the game, which received even more positive reaction than 
 before. F. E. A. R. eventually released on October 18, 2005. Alongside the basic CD-ROM edition, a 
 Director's Cut DVD version of F. E. A. R. was released with a number of extra features. A Dark Horse 
 Entertainment comic book and a series of live action vignettes help clarify a number of plot elements 
 depicted in the game, while the Making of F. E. A. R. and Developers' commentary documentaries offer 
 several insights and trivia into the game's development through interviews with employees of Monolith 
 Productions and Vivendi. Also included is the exclusive first episode of the F. E. A. R. machinima, 
 P. A. N. I. C. S., created by Rooster Teeth Productions. 
  
  Over the course of the Developer's roundtable commentary, producer Chris Hewitt reveals, We had 
 a whole level in the game where we had this car chase sequence [...] we spent about two months 
 on that thing.... [B] ut the car chase sequence didn't work the way we hoped it would, adds designer 
 Craig Hubbard, commenting on the choice to remove that level from the game. Hewitt also comments 
 that, Actually we started off with two villains, and Fettel was one of them until we merged them 
 together.... Craig Hubbard also remarks that his jacket actually used to belong to another villain 
 we had in the game named Conrad Krieg, whom we combined with Fettel pretty literally. 
  
  Engine technology
  
  F. E. A. R. is the first game developed using the newest iteration of Monolith's 
 Lithtech engine. Codenamed Jupiter EX, the F. E. A. R. engine is driven by a DirectX 9 renderer and 
 has seen major advancements from its direct precursor, Jupiter. The new engine includes both Havok 
 physics and the Havok Vehicle Kit, which adds support for common vehicle behavior. This latter feature 
 goes mostly unused in F. E. A. R., as no vehicles appear outside of scripted sequences.
  
  Graphically, F. E. A. R. utilizes normal mapping and parallax mapping to give textures a more realistic 
 appearance; the latter is used to give the appearance of depth to flat bullet hole sprites on walls. 
 Volumetric lighting and lightmapping are included with the addition of a per-pixel lighting model, 
 allowing complex lighting effects to be developed. Vertex, pixel and high-level shaders, including 
 a host of additional special effects, are also featured in Jupiter EX. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Redphazon2
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 26, 2007 6:54 am PT
Review:  Where do I start? Well, the game looks like crap on a SDTV, when played on an HDTV with the HDAV 
 cable the game looks average at best. Graphics aren't bad but they aren't very good either. Gameplay 
 is very fun for the first 2-3 hours, but then it just gets repetitive. It'll be either: Watch the 
 enemies come into the room/pop out from corners, enter slow-mo, and blast away at the enemies until 
 they're dead. Story is intriguing although it's hard to understand because you get most of the 
 story's facts from audio clips which are very hard to hear... the audio blows. The horror aspect 
 of the game was pretty cool, the game kept me on the edge of my seat for the first play through, 
 then not at all for the 2nd and 3rd. Overall the game has some potential, It could've included 
 more of a variety of weapons, the audio could've been clearer, graphics could've been more polished. 
 F. E. A. R for the Xbox 360 is a definite rent and shouldn't be passed up by those who like the RE 
 series, Silent Hill etc. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nimmow
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 23, 2007 3:59 am PT
Review:  For all those of you who jump at the slightest fright or what goes bump in the night then maybe 
 this title isn't for you. It has all the hollywood gun action and special effects to leave you 
 speechless but if you can't handle any dark corner or even evil mind tricks played on you then 
 you should either try and desensitize yourself first to horror or just don't play the game. But 
 for those of you who can overcome your fears then F. E. A. R. has everything you would want in a horror/shooter.
 
  
  You are a F. E. A. R (First Encounter Assault Recon) operative who's been sent to scope out a building 
 that an experiment has escaped to. This experiment has powerful phychic abilities that he can use 
 to awaken an army of clones at his command. You and your squad are sent to neutralize the target 
 but things never turn out the way they plan. What makes F. E. A. R strong is the gameplay. It consists 
 of a lot of shooting, constantly moving, exploring the office buildings that surround you and of 
 course using your super fast reflexes to eliminate threats with ease. Killing the clone soldiers 
 is both fun and challenging. You're given a good variety of weapons that are very useful and entertaining 
 such as the Penetrator that shoots nails that can stick enemies to walls. The enemy provide a good 
 challenge that will have you constantly using health packs as you find them and taking cover. The 
 AI is impressive and demonstrates this by jumping through windows and over ledges and trying to 
 out flank you and generally just making things difficult for you.
  
  Your ability to slow down time for more precision aiming does offset the difficulty though. You 
 can recharge your reflex bar so you're never in too much trouble when the enemy are flanking you. 
 Perhaps this makes it a bit too easy as no matter how smart the enemy is you can just slow down 
 time and fire your shotty right in their face. But it's still entertaining to use anyway as it 
 is cool to hurl a grenade and slow down time to see it blow up right infront of them. Graphically 
 this is probably one of the best looking games with great use of HDR lighting and shadow effects. 
 The darkness can't be anymore creepier, blood effects are outstanding especially when you shoot 
 a clone with a shotty and see all the blood and sometimes the sight of their body ripped in two. 
 Clone soldiers look outstanding and rich in detail though sometimes repetitive but there are a 
 few varieties to the enemy. The effects of a grenade exploding especially when you slow down time 
 are pretty awesome and all the dust that kicks up when a gunfight is occuring is cool. The environment 
 does get a bit repetitive in its look with office funiture but it's excusable given the location 
 and story of the game. And the hallucinations the main character gets are generally creepy to watch.
 
  
  Sound deffinately attributes to the creepy atmosphere of the game. Sometimes there is no music 
 in the background which feels eerie that keeps you fully alert for any signs of movement. Sometimes 
 environmental noises occur like something moved. Voice acting is good aswell as the radio chatter 
 of the clones. Guns sound good and are even better when you slow down time. Explosions also sound 
 good and a lot of time and thought was put into dialogue. Such as answering machines in the game 
 that offer plenty of insight into the game and your CO giving you information and objectives. So 
 is F. E. A. R really all that scary? It does feel creepy at times but a lot of the time it's just 
 shooting soldiers in the dark and it's only when it gets near the end of the game that it becomes 
 way more creepier especially when you encounter the little girl Alma more often. That's when the 
 game moves from shooting in the dark to the very supernatural. For anyone looking for a good horror 
 then F. E. A. R has quite a bit of it with all the blood, gore and action. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Destrin
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 22, 2007 10:02 pm PT
Review:  I was lookin at this game for awhile and when i finally got it it was well worth the money. The 
 action is intense and very satisfying when you pull it off perfectly. The bullet time mode, though 
 not particularly vital to win makes the action all the more better. The story definatley does its 
 job very well and it executes its horror element very well also. The multiplayer although good, 
 was kinda dead, i rarely found more than a few games while i played. I wouldnt consider the graphics 
 to be particularily next gen but they hold up just fine.
  Overall i consider this game to be very worth the $40 you can usually find it for in the bargain 
 bin, an excellent choice for FPS fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: star_fire_777
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 21, 2007 5:59 pm PT
Review:  Fear is a great game for what it is - a stylized horror FPS with great A. I. and intense gun fights. 
 The shooting action, while very repetitive after a while, is quite good. The slow-motion ability 
 and sophisticated enemy intelligence make for an experience that is quite enjoyable - at first.
 
  
  I've been playing FPS games since Wolf 3D for DOS, and this is a very capable entry into the genera. 
 However, it also suffers from some classic pitfalls, and some brand-new ones thanks to a half-baked 
 360 port job. Allow me to explain.
  
  As other reviews (including Gamespot's own) have pointed out, the combat, enemies and environments 
 are unfortunately very repetitive. It's great for the first few hours, but after that the game 
 starts to feel old and needlessly drawn-out. Anyone who knows FPS's knows this feeling, and it's 
 not a good one.
  
  The 360 version also has a crippled control scheme. Leaning around corners isn't easy, and I found 
 myself never using it because of the hassle. The controls work, but not like they should for such 
 a challenging game.
  
  And speaking of challenging, the points for this game are the worst I have ever seen in a 360 game, 
 except for Smash TV. They aren't so much hard as petty and annoying. Who wants a bunch of 5 point 
 achievements and then a 150 point one for never dying once? That's just silly, and for the most 
 part a waste of time. In order for a game to be a good 360 port, the points need to be fun and 
 really ad something to the game. Sadly, I found FEAR's points only added frustration.
  
  In closing, FEAR is a great attempt at a 360 port that falls short of the mark on just a few too 
 many points. It's a great game, again, for what it is. But you have to take it at that, and I got 
 the feeling the game could have been so much more. I'm very excited to see what Monolith gives 
 us with FEAR 2 - hopefully they will have learned from the failures of the first game and give 
 us the AAA title they are obviously capable of producing. They did an amazing job on Condemned 
 - one of the best games on the 360. Here's wishing them the best with tweaking what they've started 
 with FEAR. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NeonNinja
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 21, 2007 11:20 am PT
Review:  F. E. A. R., First Encounter Assault Recon, is one hell of a shooter. It sticks to one basic form 
 of combat: blow the crap out of loads of crap. None of this vehicle nonsense, or iconic melee weapons 
 such as the crowbar, plasma sword, or of course, the chainsaw attached to your Lancer. F. E. A. R. 
 sticks to just shooting stuff in really awesome ways, like in ways that would make John Rambo swoon.
 
  
  F. E. A. R. is a shooter that does plenty of things right, and while it doesnt nail everything, what 
 it does get right is done so well you might not even notice some of the flaws. And whats more 
 important in a shooter than great shooting action? F. E. A. R. is a hardcore FPS fans dream come true, 
 and chances are that if you dig shooting stuff, youll absolutely adore F. E. A. R., if you never 
 really understood FPS games then F. E. A. R. wont change your mind at all. The AI in the game is 
 absolutely insane, I had a harder time playing this game on the Moderate difficulty (Normal) , than 
 any other FPS Ive ever played before. The AI is just that good; theyll flank you, outmaneuver 
 you, and more often than not, kick your sorry ass to the curb. F. E. A. R. s enemies, even individually, 
 will bust you up if youre not careful. When theyre together, theyll actually shout out commands 
 to one other, and it all really sucks you in, when one enemy is reloading, the other two will cover 
 him by opening fire on you. You better pray your behind cover, a lot.
  
  Cover in F. E. A. R. isnt anything like cover in Gears of War, its more along the lines of Halo 
 or Half-Life, just stay behind something to not get hit, theres no button to ram yourself into 
 cover. But the gameplay in F. E. A. R. is just so intense youll find yourself muttering curses under 
 your breath during some of the bigger set piece battles. And by bigger, I mean things will get 
 blown to high hell and back in these fights. Unfortunately for F. E. A. R. its major battles just 
 arent as memorable as those found in the Halo or Half-Life games. Yes, the game is insanely good, 
 but it just feels less inspired than other shooters. Part of the problem is that F. E. A. R., for 
 the most part, will stick you with one major type of enemy, clones. They look and sound the same, 
 and when tossed onto drab, gray, dead environments the overall major fights just lack the impact 
 of say, storming onto a beach off of a Pelican dropship and kicking Covenant ass with a squad of 
 Marines shouting insults against alien battlecries.
  
  In F. E. A. R., youre one bad dude with reflexes that are off the charts. So much so that you can 
 even slow down time to wail on your enemies in a more brutal manner, however, the slow motion in 
 the game is more or less there for players who have a harder time playing the game than others. 
 Its extremely useful on the harder difficulties as well, but if you can, try not to use it too 
 often. F. E. A. R. is at its finest when running in real-time. When the enemies in the game are on 
 the same level as you, thats when you know your ass is on the line.
  
  Nonetheless, if you really need the slow-mo, than be sure to hunt down as many reflex-boosters 
 as you can, theyll actually increase your slow-mo time bit by bit. Also, keep your eyes peeled 
 for health boosters. You start out with the standard 100 health, but by the end of the game I had 
 185 as my maximum, and that proved to be a big help. Youll find medical kits in the game as well, 
 and carry up to ten of them. Just an FYI, but be prepared to use these liberally. You never have 
 teammates in F. E. A. R., yes there are other people out doing work as well, but no matter where you 
 go, you go alone, and while that may sound bad, it actually works for the better in F. E. A. R. F. E. A. R. 
 is as much a horror game as it is a shooter, and it nails the horror with as much gusto as the 
 shooter part. F. E. A. R. will make you jump, it will make you sweat, and at times, it will take your 
 breath away. Dont be surprised if you find yourself playing around 2:00 AM only to constantly 
 turn your head outside to the darkness because you think you heard a little girl laughing, only 
 to find nothing out there, and absolute silence in the game.
  
  Yes, absolute silence. F. E. A. R. isnt the same type of game as Halo or Rainbow Six: Vegas where 
 youre constantly in combat, on the contrary, there are moments when youll find yourself walking 
 down dark corridors and alleys all alone, with a dieing flashlight as your only companion. But 
 dont get used to the silence either, F. E. A. R. will just as soon toss you into a major fight, or 
 into one of its horror sequences. Anyway the point still stands, silence is awesome.
  
  But in all its awesome glory, F. E. A. R. also brings in the atmosphere, with some of the most amazing 
 sound ever. When things go bump in the night in F. E. A. R. youll know, and try as you might, youll 
 almost always end up being surprised. Youll hear footsteps, enemy soldiers talking over the radio, 
 items being flung across the room in supernatural ways, footsteps, and giggles. Giggles are the 
 best; giggles make you squirm, and giggles make you look outside expecting to see something, only 
 to find nothing. Silly giggles.
  
  Music in F. E. A. R. is a rarity, when its used its really swell. But having music in a game that 
 emphasizes silence so that your own footsteps can make your bladder start leaking doesnt really 
 make sense. Its great when its used, but for once, I think the overall lack of music is actually 
 a great boon to the game.
  
  The graphics in the game are a mixed bag and dont rise to greatness like many of its other parts. 
 They may look sharp, especially in all this darkness, but seriously, do they have to be so plain 
 and simple? Most enemies look great because theyre cover from head to toe or arent human, some 
 are machines, but some of the NPC characters you run across look like butt. Theyre just so simple 
 looking; they look like last-gen character models. But the environments suffer the same fate; they 
 dont look ugly, just plain. The game just looks plain, everything you see in F. E. A. R. looks like 
 standard-level graphics, but it doesnt end there, its also repetitive. Youll always be going 
 somewhere new in F. E. A. R., it just never feels new, it always feels the same. Yes, individual levels, 
 called intervals in F. E. A. R., start out new, but once you start playing through the level it just 
 starts to look familiar. The major redeeming quality behind the graphics and levels throughout 
 the game are that theyre dripping with atmosphere, so youll rarely pay attention to the flaws, 
 and once you accept them as such, youll probably end up not even noticing.
  
  F. E. A. R. also has a pretty good story. Its a very intriguing and dark tale, but then again, this 
 game is also a horror game, so thats to be expected. The game starts off with a bang and ends 
 on just as high a note as the one it began on. Unfortunately, the execution of the story is really 
 lame. Most of the story is told through answering machines and various computers left lying around 
 the areas. In this day and age, thats just a weak excuse for not knowing how to properly tell 
 the tale. The story itself is awesome, but if you arent careful, you could actually skip a few 
 machines and wonder whats going on. Fortunately, F. E. A. R. s ending will have you pumped up and 
 ready for a second play-through almost right away.
  
  The game also offers the new Instant Action mode, which will place you on various levels against 
 multiple enemies. Your goal is to kill as many as possible. Resident Evil 4 players may find the 
 mode extremely similar to RE4s Mercenaries mode, sans chainsaws. The game also offers a bonus 
 mission. Unfortunately, its not much of a bonus as it doesnt add or detract from the game at 
 all. Its about ten minutes of gameplay as another character set in a level youve previously cleared.
 
  
  F. E. A. R. also sports on online portion, and while it doesnt offer anything new, I still found 
 it be extremely enjoyable. In fact, when I had Xbox Live, I spent more time playing F. E. A. R. online 
 rather than Gears of War. It offers your standard modes, and the only cool thing it tries to do 
 is offer those same modes in slow-mo. I still prefer the game at normal speed though.
  
  F. E. A. R. is a classic, one of the definitive shooter experiences out there for both the PC and 
 Xbox 360. If you love FPS games, F. E. A. R. is an absolute must-buy. The game has some of the best 
 AI ever, it oozes atmosphere, has an interesting storyline and most importantly, it has the power 
 to make you whimper, loudly and often. If you need a game that will challenge you, F. E. A. R. is 
 the game to get. F. E. A. R. makes you realize that all you need for a great shooter is some great 
 shooting action, not silly innovations that try to change the game, and in that regard, F. E. A. R. 
 stands as not only the scariest shooter, but as a true blue shooter. Thats awesome. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shawn7324
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 20, 2007 2:01 pm PT
Review:  Fear was an overall OK game. In theory it was a great game but some things just didn't pan out 
 as well as i think the creator would have wanted it to. Honestly the only reason i bought the game 
 was for the slow motion feature &amp; horror story. Lets be honest here the online is an absolute 
 joke. Never have i seen more lag in a game than fear and the game types just aren't fun. Maybe 
 if they adopted a good system like those of Gears of war or GRAW it would make an 9 or 10. My word 
 of advise is to just rent this game and see if you like it, don't go out and but it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Raven4d8
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 20, 2007 10:45 am PT
Review:  An amazing game. The little girl is really creepy kinda reminded me of one of those crapy scary 
 movies like the Ring or whatever but its better... really great game. had a lot of fun with this 
 game...
  
  Creepy atomosphere and the voice of the main bad guy is creepy. also creepy little actions whenever 
 the little girl comes around whether its the bloody hall way or ... i dont wanna give anything 
 else any PLAY THE GAME!!!!
  
  mutiplayer kinda blow it though... the multiplayer could have been so much better... but thats 
 like most shooters now a days they arent like the Socom series for PS2 that game was probably the 
 best shooter to date in my opinion.
  
  Overall a lot of fun and you should definitely giver a go 
::::::

::::::
UserName: buying1999
Rating: 8.7
Date: Aug 14, 2007 6:08 am PT
Review:  Vivendi Games has done a great job of porting the PC version of this game to Xbox 360. This is 
 a game or atmosphere, mood, emotions, and frantic firefights. The graphics of F. E. A. R. are a blend 
 of great lighting, particle effects, high poly counts, and shadowing. The game uses these elements 
 to submerse the player into a creepy world where not everything that you see is really there, or 
 is it? The game engine does a great job of rendering the well designed environments that range 
 from office buildings, to underground basements, to roof tops, to underground secret labs. The 
 use of light and shadow are great and the enemies moving in and out of the light looks awesome. 
 Particle effects are used extensively. During firefights debris fills the air and looks very believable 
 with chunks of plaster and cement flying off of pillars and walls as bullets tear into them. The 
 animation is well done here as well. There were no corners cut when it came to making your adversaries 
 look, behave, and move realistically. Audio is strong here as well. At times there'll be deadly 
 silence with just the sound of dripping water, a buzzing florescent light, or some other well places 
 of ambient sound breaking in. You can here the NPC's talking among themselves just before you attack 
 and giving orders after you attack. This is helpful in figuring out what they'll do next. The use 
 of surround sound also helps you to hear if an enemy has managed to flank you. Weapons fire is 
 spot on and the occasional sound of a little girl in the darkness is just more proof that Vivendi 
 has it figured out in the audio department.
  
  Gameplay is very important in a game like this. I have to say that this game responds well and 
 although the controls are a little different from what Halo fans are used to, they're easily mastered. 
 F. E. A. R. resembles many other shooters in many ways but has some unique things going for it. The 
 A. I. is very well done. Enemies will flank, charge, take cover, give orders, and work together 
 to try and bring you down. Many times you'll find youself outnumbered on screen. This is where 
 another difference comes into play. You can use your increased reflex to start a bullet time effect. 
 This slows your adversaries down and gives you a much needed advantage. During this time you can 
 see bullet trails, debris, blood splatter and other elements as if they were put into slow motion. 
 It's a great effect that is a critical part of the gameplay. Multiplayer for F. E. A. R. is really 
 fast action. With many different match types and lot's of maps you'll be fragging your friends 
 for months to come. F. E. A. R. is a great game, with great graphics, sound, and gameplay, you can't 
 go wrong here. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: king-of-ruckus
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 13, 2007 6:57 pm PT
Review:  This game's premise seemed like one out of the survival horror games. The idea of a commander with 
 psycic abilities commanding his troops to overthrow the government that created him is intriguing 
 to some, but to me with a story like I expected something more than what I got. The gameplay in 
 the game was solid. The controls felt like they suited this game with little hick-ups along the 
 way. I however doesn't sufice as a great shooter for me. It didn't offer anything new, the reflex 
 meter they used was straight out of the Max Payne series. The weapons were good but you would think 
 that if you sent a special task force in to assassinate a telepathic foe you would get more than 
 machine guns and an ocassionaly rocket launcher. Graphically this title looked good. The darkness 
 was creepy and set the mood. During the cutscenes where you enter somewhere else it freaks the 
 player out and adds to the storyline. Overall the game was fun. The story didn't move along very 
 well and didn't keep me reeled in. For the price you can't really go wrong, it might keep you suficed 
 until Halo 3 comes out but overall it will leave you wanting more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hintaki
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 11, 2007 6:16 pm PT
Review:  Well in the beginning I rented this game and made half thought the game. But I finally decide to 
 buy this game, I really enjoy playing this a lot and very and it's really addicted as well. This 
 game has great graphic, story-line, music, creepy and many more into this game. But it can be difficult 
 in most part in the mission but it easy in most of the other missions. But sometimes it's really 
 hard to find all the medicine as well because you tend to loose alot of health and easily be use 
 alot as well. But this game is very enjoyable to play creepy when you first play it. The handle 
 of the game is good takes time to get use too. Online is pretty good as well and you can able to 
 take into the leader-boardtoo see how well u can get. But the achievements can be very little and 
 hard to get. But most of all this game is creepy and really fun as well. I like how u can able 
 to use the slow-mo on enemies as well, different weapons you can use in the game. The graphics 
 are really good and looks real. But this game is kind of difficult but you can able to get the 
 hand of it and the controls can be okay but takes sometime to get use too as well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: msudude211
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 10, 2007 6:26 pm PT
Review:  F. E. A. R. is both a great first person shooter and horror game that will keep you on the edge of 
 your seat the entire game, whether young or old.
  
  Overall, FEAR's gameplay is great, but not perfect. The game is extremely immersive, and not to 
 mention, just outright scary, which is why many like this game, myself included. The game atmospheres 
 and settings are creepy, ranging from an old warehouse to an abandoned hotel, and the whole story 
 takes place at night. Chilling music also sets the tone for the game, and antagonist voices are 
 blood curling. The thing that makes this game the most horrifying, however, is appearances of ghost-like 
 enemies when you least expect it. On the contrary, the game is very long for a first person shooter, 
 so there is no shortage whatsoever of gameplay.
  
  The gameplay, as I mentioned, is not perfect. Sometimes the game can be quite repetitive. There 
 are many times when you need to backtrack through previously beaten levels, and with that, the 
 number of settings you are in throughout the game is limited. Enemies, for the most part, are also 
 very limited, and you will find yourself battling the same old replica soldiers virtually the whole 
 game. Many will be saddened to hear that F. E. A. R. has no single player co-op. The last quirk with 
 the gameplay is that the story can be confusing at times, and I had to consult Gamespot for help 
 understanding what was going on.
  
  In conclusion, F. E. A. R. is the best game you'll find out there for thirty dollars, so pop F. E. A. R. 
 into your Xbox 360 and brace yourself for some great FPS/Horror action! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lokizarro
Rating: 2.3
Date: Aug 9, 2007 2:03 am PT
Review:  this game is the most boring piece of crap i have ever played in my entire life. I played it for 
 1 hour and traded it in the next day for rainbow six vegas (which i love by the way) im not even 
 going to go into detail on the story because it is SOOOO stupid.
  
  gameplay: the gameplay is boring and so repetitive and so is the action and so are the weapons 
 and enemies, Oh yes the enemies are the same fu****s every single time!!!! i have to admit that 
 the AI is smart though. For example if they want to throw grenades they will roll out of the way 
 and throw them. However the AI is the only redeeming factor of this crap. 3/10
  
  graphics: in my opinion the graphics look like crap. They look like a normal xbox game to me and 
 halo 2 looks a million times better than this in my opnion and i mean that. The bullet holes you 
 make look like a map of the grand canyon on the wall, as they are bigger than you. For example 
 you will have a pistol fire a single shot and BOOM!!!!!!!!! a hole the size of texas will appear!! 
 the only good thing is that the blood looks realistic but only when it is on the floor. If you 
 shoot someone it looks like a cloud of red dust. 3/10
  
  sound: everything here is a **** literally, the gun sounds are okay but more on the bad side. The 
 voice acting is bad and so is the music in the game 2/10
  
  replay value: there is no replay value. If you are smart and like REAL games like halo, Unreal 
 Tournament and Gears of war or even the rainbow six games then you will agree that this is SO boring 
 and repetitive. Same enemies, same enviroment, same weapons, and same fu****g objective!!! hunt 
 down a guy who eats people and now and then you see a little girl with fire around her who kills 
 people. SOUNDS FUN HUH?!?! and slightly stupid if you ask me. 1/10
  
  overall: i hope you appreciate me wasting my time to warn you not to get this game! i just don't 
 want you to make the same mistake that i did. I was actually looking forward to this game but after 
 playing it........ Jesus i traded this game in a day after for rainbow six vegas which is an AMAZING 
 game to me and it is challenging and fun. This is not even worth a rental. Just leave it alone 
 and go for games like Gears of war or Unreal Tournament. However this is my opinion and you can 
 do what you want i would just advise you to not even rent it. this gets nothing from me except 
 a score of 2.3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: soulknot
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 8, 2007 12:19 pm PT
Review:  all right, they finally brought this game to the 360! first of all, i suggest you do not buy the 
 game even if it is very fun. the campaign is pretty short and its not worth the $60 unless you 
 really want this. ok the first hour of the game sucks. BAD. but then i just got really addicted 
 to it. the sci-fi action with some really creepy twists, its just a great match! your gonna have 
 alot of fun with this game but just remember to RENT IT. the really good parts where the firefights 
 in the creepy skyscrapers with the weird lookings clones they were pretty tough to beat but werent 
 impossible. enemy a. i. is superb, youll have a tough time trying to stop the enemy from trying 
 to flank you and shoot you down. but that isnt a bad thing because it makes the game more exiting. 
 another thing, this game is scary but not that scary. i mean, im just 13 and i didnt pee my pants 
 or anything but it IS creepy. very creepy. one of the bad points were that you barely understand 
 the story because its pretty badly told and confusing. anyway, i wont tell too much on this game 
 so give it a try and have fun! :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ChrisBoi17
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 4, 2007 7:51 am PT
Review:  F. E. A. R. is an absolute awesome FPS got to be one of the best without a doubt and there is no doubt 
 that the 360 owns this game the effects are stunning and the graphics are second to none it really 
 is a complete game. The story is intense, your an elite-soldier trained to deal with unusual situations 
 you are called in to confront a murderous force like no other with actual paranormal abilities 
 you really are in for a truly death defying experience. The game is actually quite scary especially 
 when you see a little girl ghost appearing out of nowhere and the sound effects are also quite 
 creepy and disturbing but with this action game you get to discover the true meaning of F. E. A. R. 
 so its not a matter of if you buy this game, it's a matter of when you buy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: agubna
Rating: 9.3
Date: Aug 1, 2007 10:16 pm PT
Review:  I played this game a little for the computer when I borrowed it from a friend and I knew I had 
 to get it. This game has a fairly long sotry mode, will take somewhere around 10 hours on your 
 first play (thats how long it took me) , Thats pretty short, but not horrible. The graphics in this 
 game are really good, especially the fire and explosions. The slo-mo mode is also wicked fun to 
 use. The only main thing I don't like about this game is that unlike most other FPS, it shows quite 
 a bit of your arm, which looks a little odd to me, but despite that, this is still a fun game. 
 The live for this game is pretty good too, although not to many people play this game live anymore 
 on a lot of the modes. The sound of the gunfire is pretty good too. I'm not sure if it's worth 
 the $30.00 price tag, but it's worth at least $25.00 for sure. I recommend to all lovers of the 
 genre
  . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: danbouk
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 31, 2007 3:53 am PT
Review:  F. E. A. R is a phychological Horror FPS, which has some of the best A. I, I have seen in a game to 
 date.
  The Horror element is quite well done, as it plays more on your mind, as to being straight in your 
 face, I not really a Horror fan but I like the way it is handled in F. E. A. R.
  Lets talk about the game-play, first off the controls, at first they come across a bit clunky and 
 you'll be wondering what button to press to do what, but once mastered they work just fine, thoughif 
 you put the game down for a while, they again take some time to get used.
  The game-play in F. E. A. R is really top nouch, thanks in part to the A. I, that really does make 
 the game. The A. I will reacte to your style of play, you back off, they will try differant ways 
 to flush you out, even taking a differant way to flank, you blow one to pieces, with your shotgun, 
 they become reluctant to go after you, which is fun hearing them discuss it. Honestly, if you apprecate 
 good A. I, you have to play F. E. A. R.
  Some of the levels can go on a bit, but again they can be beating and while the levels looks similar, 
 playing at a high level, you'll be more worrying whats round the next corner.
  Also the slow mo effect looks quite cool in this game, especially when you shoot someones head 
 off from the neck.
  The Graphics are ok, well actually they are quite good and serve there purpose and I have no problem 
 with them whatsoever.
  On-line play is available and for someone like myself who is not really into the manic Deathmatch 
 play, I found F. E. A. R quite good fun to play on-line and easy to get into.
  Casual gamers, may be put off by F. E. A. R, but anyone who enjoys FPSs and like a challenge, I'd 
 say get F. E. A. R as it really is a good game and like I sadi before, I can't express how good the 
 A. I is in this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nymets819
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 30, 2007 10:15 am PT
Review:  Great game!!! Great game!!! Great game!!! Great game!!! Great game!!! Great game!!! Great game!!! Great 
 game!!! Great game!!! Great game!!! Great game!!! Great game!!! Great game!!! Great game!!! Great game!!! Great 
 game!!! Great game!!! Great game!!! Great game!!! Great game!!! Great game!!! Great game!!! Great game!!! Great 
 game!!! Great game!!! Great game!!! Great game!!! Great game!!! Great game!!! Great game!!! Great game!!! Great 
 game!!! Great game!!! Great game!!! Great game!!! Great game!!! Great game!!! Great game!!! Great game!!! Great 
 game!!! Great game!!! Great game!!! Great game!!! Great game!!! Great game!!! Great game!!! Great game!!! Great 
 game!!! Great game!!! Great game!!! Great game!!! Great game!!! Great game!!! Great game!!! Great game!!! Great 
 game!!! Great game!!! Great game!!! Great game!!! Great game!!! Great game!!! Great game!!! Great game!!! Great 
 game!!! Great game!!! Great game!!! Great game!!! Great game!!! Great game!!! Great game!!! Great game!!! Great 
 game!!! Great game!!! Great game!!! Great game!!! Great game!!! Great game!!! Great game!!! Great game!!! Great 
 game!!! Great game!!! Great game!!! Great game!!! Great game!!! Great game!!! Great game!!! Great game!!! Great 
 game!!! Great game!!! Great game!!! Great game!!! Great game!!! Great game!!! Great game!!! Great game!!! Great 
 game!!! Great game!!! Great game!!! Great game!!! Great game!!! Great game!!! Great game!!! Great game!!! Great 
 game!!! Great game!!! Great game!!! Great game!!! Great game!!! Great game!!! Great game!!! Great game!!! Great 
 game!!! Great game!!! Great game!!! Great game!!! Great game!!! Great game!!! Great game!!! Great game!!! Great 
 game!!! Great game!!! Great game!!! Great game!!! Great game!!! Great game!!! Great game!!! Great game!!! Great 
 game!!! Great game!!! Great game!!! Great game!!! Great game!!! Great game!!! Great game!!! Great game!!! Great 
 game!!! Great game!!! Great game!!! Great game!!! Great game!!! Great game!!! Great game!!! Great game!!! Great 
 game!!! Great game!!! Great game!!! Great game!!! Great game!!! Great game!!! Great game!!! Great game!!! Great 
 game!!! Great game!!! Great game!!! Great game!!! Great game!!! Great game!!! Great game!!! Great game!!! Great 
 game!!! Great game!!! Great game!!! Great game!!! Great game!!! Great game!!! Great game!!! Great game!!! Great 
 game!!! Great game!!! Great game!!! Great game!!! Great game!!! Great game!!! Great game!!! Great game!!! Great 
 game!!! Great game!!! Great game!!! Great game!!! Great game!!! Great game!!! Great game!!! Great game!!! Great 
 game!!! Great game!!! Great game!!! Great game!!! Great game!!! Great game!!! Great game!!! Great game!!! Great 
 game!!! Great game!!! Great game!!! Great game!!! Great game!!! Great game!!! Great game!!! Great game!!! Great 
 game!!! Great game!!! Great game!!! Great game!!! Great game!!! Great game!!! Great game!!! Great game!!! Great 
 game!!! Great game!!! Great game!!! Great game!!! Great game!!! Great game!!! Great game!!! Great game!!! Great 
 game!!! Great game!!! Great game!!! Great game!!! Great game!!! Great game!!! Great game!!! Great game!!! Great 
 game!!! Great game!!! Great game!!! Great game!!! Great game!!! Great game!!! Great game!!! Great game!!! Great 
 game!!! Great game!!! Great game!!! Great game!!! Great game!!! Great game!!! Great game!!! Great game!!! Great 
 game!!! Great game!!! Great game!!! Great game!!! Great game!!! Great game!!! Great game!!! Great game!!! Great 
 game!!! Great game!!! Great game!!! Great game!!! Great game!!! Great game!!! Great game!!! Great game!!! Great 
 game!!! Great game!!! Great game!!! Great game!!! Great game!!! Great game!!! Great game!!! Great game!!! Great 
 game!!! Great game!!! Great game!!! Great game!!! Great game!!! Great game!!! Great game!!! Great game!!! Great 
 game!!! Great game!!! Great game!!! Great game!!! Great game!!! Great game!!! Great game!!! Great game!!! Great 
 game!!! Great game!!! Great game!!! Great game!!! Great game!!! Great game!!! Great game!!! Great game!!! Great 
 game!!! Great game!!! Great game!!! Great game!!! Great game!!! Great game!!! Great game!!! Great game!!! Great 
 game!!! Great game!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RobtBizzle
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 30, 2007 6:24 am PT
Review:  This game has some kinda horror atmosphere it's well designed and with a good gameplay this is 
 the best thriller game i'v ever played.
  The graphics are pretty good but not amazing, the gameplay is good.
  The slow motion and effects 
 are also good. There will be a number of weapons to use and some levels are pretty fun. The scenes 
 are amazing and also scary. The campaign is not really boring. I had fun, although the multiplayer 
 is not as good as it should have been, if ur expecting a gears of war online game then no u will 
 be disappointed. The achievments are very hard to get and are very annoying (i got maximum 200 
 GP) .
  I'll say that this game is well worth a rent. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 009988776655443
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 26, 2007 2:03 pm PT
Review:  this game was pretty amazing starting right from the start. the scary moments were creepy and the 
 girl whom i don't want to name, is really awkward... but i think how she kills people is really 
 cool. I've heard that the Expansion that came for PC is coming for the xbox 360 with another expansion 
 with it (F. E. A. R. Files) and still im pretty sure they are going to make a sequel. That makes F. E. A. R. 
 my favourate game, well i LOVE FPS's and Halo is just really old, so i would have to say this is 
 my favourate game of all time. Whats pretty cool is, i saw a interview on xbox. com about F. E. A. R. 
 and they were asked which console had the best graphics (PC, Xbox 360, Or Playstation 3) surprisingly 
 they answered in Order which ones were the best...1. Xbox 360 2. PC 3. Playstation 3. they clearly 
 remarked that Xbox version was the best because the players were more comfortable with it, what 
 they meant is that All xbox's could play F. E. A. R. but the PC you needed a high computer, but they 
 actually said the 360 had the graphics the PC couldnt have, they raised the graphics alot for the 
 360 (its true i actually have all 3 versions of F. E. A. R.) That is all i have to say for F. E. A. R. 
 on the 360, THANK YOU for reading! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: UnrealPro
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 25, 2007 11:43 pm PT
Review:  Review for: FEAR: First Encounter Assault Recon
  Platform: Xbox 360
  Covers: Single Player and Multiplayer FEAR can be described as a first-person shooter horror game. 
 It is comprised of an engrossing story in its single player campaign and a fully featured multiplayer 
 mode for up to 16 players on Xbox Live. What sets FEAR apart from other shooters is its startling 
 atmosphere and it's fast, relentless, and satisfying combat. Though you will trudge through the 
 single player campaign alone for the most part, you have an impressive array of fire-arms, grenades, 
 hand-to-hand combat skills, and even a slow-mo ability. You will need every one of these to combat 
 the various enemies throughout the game. You will face cloned soldiers, ATC security guards, assault 
 mechs, and supernatural forces. A majority of your enemies will be the cloned soldiers. Though 
 they put up an outstanding fight, a bit more variety in enemy placement would have been welcome. 
 Oh, and do expect them to put up an outstanding fight before they (or you) go down. One other great 
 aspect of FEAR is its enemy AI. These guys will take cover, lay down suppressing fire, call for 
 back up, dive away from grenades, or plop a well placed grenade right beside you. Now it just wouldn't 
 be fair if you didn't have visceral weapons to handle these deadly enemies. You will have access 
 to various fire-arms, such as the usual assault rifles, sub-machine guns, pistols, shotguns, and 
 rocket-launchers, as well as unique and devastating weaponry such as a particle beam rifle, which 
 sears the flesh off of opponents and is extremely precise. Another unique weapon in FEAR is the 
 Penetrator, which can literally nail your enemies to the wall if enough shots connect. Along with 
 fire-arms, you will have various grenades which have different purposes for different situations. 
 The standard grenades are useful for flushing out entrenched enemies, while proximity grenades 
 are useful for setting up a trap for advancing enemies. The most useful explosives, however, are 
 the remote detonators, in which the explosive is detonated whenever you please, such as near retreating 
 enemy soldiers or advancing enemies. Along with your guns and grenades, you have your melee attacks 
 and other hand to hand combat skills. You can punch, uppercut, jump kick, scissor kick, slide tackle, 
 or gun-butt enemies. They are especially effective as finishing moves against stunned or severely 
 injured soldiers. Your most useful ability, however, is your ability to slow down time. Combined 
 with your weapons and fists, your reflexes give you increased odds over your extremely intelligent 
 foes. You'll want to focus on head-shots in this mode to conserve ammo and your slow-mo bar, which 
 gradually depletes as you use it. Speaking of depletion, it's worth noting that FEAR relies of 
 the FPS contrivance of having a flashlight with a limited, recharging battery, though unlike in 
 Doom 3, you won't have to switch between weapons and gear to use it. The graphics in FEAR are outstanding. 
 The level of detail in the character models are superb, shadows are well done, and the engine also 
 features excellent lighting. They also display a great example of the use of physics. For example, 
 shoot an enemy over some railing and he'll realistically flop over the side and plummet to his 
 death. Shoot a fuse box near enemies coming through a doorway, and they'll receive a shocking surprise. 
 Another example of this games graphics come in the form of the amount of dust your guns kick up 
 when you fire for extended periods of time. It obscures your vision and looks cool when looking 
 down at a fallen enemy, with smoke coming out of his gun. It is also worth noting of the game's 
 unrelenting display of gore. Body parts can be individually blown off with the shotgun or the head 
 with a well placed ASP burst. Chunks fly everywhere when rockets or grenades make a direct hit. 
 It is all displayed wonderfully here, keeping the action even more visceral. There is rarely an 
 instance of slowdown or clipping, which definately shows the amount of time and effort put into 
 the graphics alone. The sound is outstanding in its own right. Guns all sound like they pack a 
 whallop. The sound of bullets hitting flesh is dead on, and the music also lends a creepy atmosphere 
 to an already spooky game. When the action picks up, you can tell just by hearing the music. It 
 really gets the blood pumping. The single player campaign should take the average player around 
 eight hours to complete, though this varies depending on your skill, the difficulty level, and 
 whether or not you decide to use your slow-mo ability at all. It is a bit on the short side compared 
 to other shooters but those eight hours are packed with one impressive fire-fight after another. 
 Admittingly, however, there are some parts of FEAR that can get downright murderous, such as a 
 rooftop level where countless snipers equipped with particle beam rifles are constantly zapping 
 the skin off of you. This is made worse by the fact that the Xbox 360 version of FEAR relies on 
 a checkpoint save system. Not only can it put you in some very bad positions, but sometimes it 
 takes away the suspense of the game. You'll notice this right before the game saves before an impending 
 fright. This is a next generation console, Day 1 Studios, give us the power to save where we want, 
 when we want. If Prey and even Xbox 1 games like Doom 3 can do it, so can this game. FEAR includes 
 a wild frenzy of a multiplayer mode, reminiscent of Soldier of Fortune 2 in terms of sheer bloodbaths 
 and fast run and gun gameplay. You can play modes such as Deathmatch, Team Deathmatch, Team Slo-Mo, 
 Elimination, among others. You can play these modes with anywhere up to 16 players. Unfortunately, 
 in the midst of other shooters such as Gears of War, Rainbow Six: Vegas, GRAW 2, and Call of Duty 
 3, you won't find many servers for all gametypes. *Update* As of July 25th, 2007 I encountered 
 no servers for Team Deathmatch alone, for example. FEAR also comes with limited maps, though the 
 recent map packs have brought the total to a respectable 14 maps. FEAR remains under limited support 
 for multiplayer, but hopefully this changes. As is, if deathmatch is your sport, FEAR is your game. 
 The Xbox 360 version of FEAR also includes an instant action mode, in which you take on hoards 
 of enemies in a set amount of time. These times are then directly uploaded onto the Xbox Live leaderboards 
 for FEAR. Of related note, some of these are tied into the Xbox 360 achievements, which are a disappointment. 
 They just get harder and harder, such as when you must complete all instant action maps on extreme 
 difficulty, or NEVER using slow-mo or health boosters, or finding EVERY SINGLE one of them. Probably 
 one of the hardest achievements would be NEVER dying throughout the game. Tough to do unless you 
 memorize the location of every sniper, rocket trooper, and every other enemy that can instantly 
 kill you. Also tough considering there is no 'restart level' option if you screw up. You have to 
 start the game over if you really want that achievement. FEAR is a worthy purchase for action fans 
 and horror fans alike. It's presentation in terms of gameplay, graphics, and sound are one of a 
 kind, and its concept is original in its own right. If you are frustrated with the countless real-world 
 soldier games, one shot one kill realism, and babysitting brain-dead squads, than this is your 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IOUOneGalaxy127
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 15, 2008 7:34 pm PT
Review:  F. E. A. R. was a game that I had postponed buying for quite some time. It always looked pretty decent, 
 however, I was just reluctant to drop $60 for yet another First-Person Shooter. Well, I finally 
 broke and decided to drop down the cash for the game and I'm glad I did. This game does break away 
 from your typical FPS in a few ways. Graphically, it may not be the greatest looking game or shooter 
 to come out on the 360 but it does have many great features.
  
  One of the things that I immediately noticed when playing F. E. A. R. was the way in which the character 
 moves. After playing Halo, Halo 2, Call of Duty 3... etc, etc... It was weird to see that the character 
 actually "walks," if you will, and doesn't feel like you're simply gliding across the ground. This 
 through me off guard at first and actually took some time getting used to, but once I did, I actually 
 found it to be a refreshing change. Its little things like this that really capture your attention 
 in the end and makes you feel like you were actually playing as a character and not just a floating 
 arm holding a rifle.
  
  The story for F. E. A. R. was nicely done and does seem to catch you off guard now and then. After 
 playing games like Resident Evil, I expected not to be as jumpy when playing a game, especially 
 an FPS, but I will admit that at times... well, let's just say I kept the lights on while playing 
 this game! This was truly a treat and added to the value of the game. The variety of weapons was 
 nice and a little bit different from other First Person Shooters, however, there is still nothing 
 like walking around with the shot gun in this game! The "slowing time down" effect is nicely done 
 in the game and certainly does help in this game. Unlike in many First Person Shooters, you don't 
 have some kind of shield or you can't run out of the fight for a few moments and regain all of 
 your health. You have to make sure you're stocked up on health packs in this game to make sure 
 ready for anything.
  
  Overall, F. E. A. R. is a great game. It had a good story, was a decent length, however, I just couldn't 
 help feel that this game was not taking advantage of the Xbox 360's hardware. Nevertheless, definitely 
 a game worth trying out! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: f5lesnar2000
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 22, 2007 8:33 pm PT
Review:  In all reality I think FEAR could benefit from 2 classifications, it is a good game. But half the 
 time your wandering around in the dark with your flashlight as your sole means of finding your 
 way, sound familiar to you Doom3 fans? The game puts you in the shoes of a FEAR operative who is 
 sent to find some general with telepathic abilities who controls an army of replica soldiers. Little 
 by little you uncover... something that resembles a story, not with cutscenes or PDA messages but 
 answering machine messages and voice overs from your commanding officer. So far as I can tell, 
 the primary goal of the game is to get from point A to point B, and kill people along the way. 
 Graphically the game is superb, everything has a high level of detail, and things rarely slow down 
 when there are several enemies in the area. The enemy AI is also quite a feat of programming, these 
 guys are smart; they'll regroup, try to flank, realize what your doing and respond accordingly, 
 etc. which makes for a challenging encounter even on the easy setting. The sound is also top notch, 
 gun fire sounds realistic, voices fade in and out as you travel towards or away from them. There 
 are a couple items in FEAR that I would mark against it for, first off when your hit by enemy, 
 you can't really tell unless your watching your health meter, and until you've dispatched all the 
 enemies in an area that can be difficult. Second is that theres almost too much to do on the XBox 
 controller that you can forget about grenades, ducking, zooming in and everything else. Last is 
 of course the somewhat vague story, other games present storylines in cutscenes, large text on 
 the screen in some cases, this you have sound files and rare hallucinations. With the game being 
 somewhat long, you may find parts very repetitive and boring as you walk through hallways over 
 and over. All in all FEAR is a good game but could have spent a few more weeks in development. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Slapshotsaint
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jul 22, 2007 8:55 am PT
Review:  Vey immursive, scary, beautiful graphics, sound, some of the best special effects yet to date on 
 a console. The claustrophobic atmosphere get irritating with lots of indoor hallways. Seeing items 
 and guns shot holes dissapear almost as they happen is the other drawback to the game and does 
 affect realism. Gun shoot outs are intelligent and AI is scary and convincing.... Beautiful blood 
 spaltters! Great game, with a sometimes irritation factor, but will make you jump out fo your seat 
 , especially when the Mech drops out of the ceiling! Find a way to own this game and rent it for 
 sure as it is a very good game. YOU REAL REVIEW! Thank YOu 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Elite29
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jul 20, 2007 1:24 am PT
Review:  F. E. A. R. is a game that came out on the PC awhile back and got rave reviews from critics and fans 
 alike. It manages to blend some great shooting action with a nice horror theme/story. Make no mistake, 
 F. E. A. R. will cause you to jump in your seat every now and then. I didn't find it to be as scary 
 as some people have said. In fact, I think Monolith's other 'scary' game for the 360, Condemned: 
 Criminal Origins, is much creepier. And unfortunately, that is not the only thing that reminds 
 me of that game while playing F. E. A. R.
  
  By the time I beat F. E. A. R., I had my fill of running through drab looking buildings. After playing 
 this game for a few hours, you will feel like you are running around the enviroments of Condemned, 
 only this time you have plenty of firearms at your disposal. The game does manage to mix in some 
 new inviroments, but it gets old nontheless.
  
  And the graphics, while not bad by any means, are starting to show their age. The game looks fine, 
 by 360 standards, but this was released around the same time as 'Gears Of War' and it gets blown 
 out of the water by that game. The audio is very good, as it really gets you spooked at certain 
 times. This is definately a game that should be played at night, by yourself, with the lights off 
 and the volume jacked up.
  
  The multi-player is fun, but it doesn't have the lasting value that some of the better shooters 
 have on the 360. It's more of a fun diversion while you are playing through the single-player game. 
 The achievements are pretty lame, though. Most of the single-player ones revolve around doing VERY 
 difficult things while playing through the campaign multiple times.
  
  Overall, I feel that F. E. A. R. is a must-own for any fan of FPS. It's a fun game with an interesting 
 story &amp; it might even scare the crap out of you a few times. I guess I was just expecting more 
 after hearing how good this was on the PC. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MarioRPGer
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 18, 2007 7:00 pm PT
Review:  Im gonna be honest with you. Everytime something popped out or a hullucination occured, I thought 
 I was gonna wimp out and stop playing. Well, I'm glad I stuck around because this is one of the 
 funnest, most visceral first-person shooters ever produced.
  
  Gameplay- There really hasn't been any major changes to the gameplay aspects of FPS's and this 
 isnt an exception. The control scheme is what you would normally find in an FPS. Like the R trigger 
 being the weapon to fire, and that sort of thing. You have some of the same weapons that you would 
 normally find like a pistol, an assault rifle, an SMG, a rocket launcher, along with some exclusive 
 weapons as well. But what makes F. E. A. R. different is the satisfaction you feel when shooting enemies. 
 You feel like every weapon, even a pistol, can rip apart foes like nothing else. A big part of 
 this satisfaction comes from slo-mo, a properly named device in the game which simulates your fast 
 reflexes with a matrix-esque view where your enemies move in slow motion while you can move normally 
 and react to what they do more. This can be extremely valuable because the enemies you face in 
 this game are tough, even on the low difficulties. They will zone in on you, take cover, react 
 to your flashlight, give orders to other squadmates and just rip you all up. Some may find these 
 encounters are repetitive, but I found myself flooded with joy because they were downright fun 
 as crap and they were a nice break from the creepy jump-out of your seat, under-your-skin, pychological 
 scares that you are occasionally a part of. This game is very scary and chilling and at the end 
 of it all, you will feel drained from the scares. Do not let this chase you away from playing this 
 game though, it is so worth it.
  
  Graphics- Being a port from a PC game, the graphics are not brilliant but they are still very good. 
 It is technically very good, and the particle and shadow effects make the battles very frinetic 
 and exciting. In many of the scary instances in the game, the visuals are just plain disturbing 
 and will scare the piss out of you, no matter how manly you are. While it doesnt push the systems 
 capablilities at all, it still looks very nice.
  
  Sound- The sound is one of the shining highlights of the game. The eerie sounds dig into your brain 
 and just leave you with chilling tension, its that good. The guns sound great, the voice acting 
 is above average, but where the audio truly shines are the moments leading up to a scare as you 
 know something is gonna happen, then it doesnt. Its totally silent and then Ah!, the little girl 
 is right there. The audio toys with you, and that is impressive in its own right.
  
  Value- The main campaign should take you atleast 8-10 hours to complete, but the game lets you 
 stick around to play short segments called quick action to post your scores online, And thats another 
 thing. It is dissapointing that you cant play locally, but you can play online.
  
  Note- This was a very fun game. Do not let the scares drive you away, the shooting gameplay is 
 the main part of the game, and it is very well executed and very fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: devil_1994
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 18, 2007 7:14 am PT
Review:  fear is a very scary game i mean anytime u are playing and u dont excpect this little scary girl 
 comes right in your face. ok u are part of fear first encounter assualt recon your team acts with 
 unsual things others cant even imagine i think the charcter you play is born in that place graphics: the 
 graphics arent that good i mean for a 360 game
  sound: sound is good especially the enemy soldiers sound
  gameplay: the gameplay is incredible 
 overall it is a great which no horror game can make
  i reccomend to any fan of horror games it is so scary 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RebornInFlames
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 4, 2008 2:26 pm PT
Review:  F. E. A. R. is a survival-horror FPS that puts you in the combat boots of a special forces operative 
 selected for his extraordinary reflexes and fighting ability. You are part of a group that deals 
 with paranormal situations, and there's a crisis involving cloned supersoldiers and a telepathic 
 commander. Paranormal enough? No? Well there's also a little girl who can liquefy flesh with her 
 mind. Since you have such great reflexes, the game features a slow-mo function a la Max Payne which 
 allows you to dodge incoming fire and get the drop on your enemies. And you will definitely need 
 this extra edge, because the enemies you face are truly dangerous. Most of the time you will be 
 up against the cloned soldiers, who will generally be in squads of 3 to 8. These guys are anything 
 but run-of-the-mill FPS cannon fodder. Their AI is very intelligent and lifelike. Enemies will 
 flank you, take cover, fire from the shadows where you can't see them, and toss grenades around 
 corners at you if you take cover for too long. Even more impressive, some will wait around corners 
 for you with a shotgun, the way a human player would. Others kick over bookshelves to provide cover 
 for themselves. All are fast and agile, and jump down from balconies, over obstacles, and through 
 windows. They also strafe while firing and scurry around maddeningly, taking potshots at you. One 
 of my favorite things about the AI is that it doesn't have complete awareness of your position 
 once you have been seen. If you disappear from sight and flank a trooper, he will often still be 
 covering your original position and won't know you are behind him. Once you are seen again though, 
 your foes waste no time in bringing their guns to bear. Thankfully, your slow-mo meter recharges, 
 so if you are patient and know how to fall back you can usually ensure that you don't find yourself 
 in a frantic firefight in real time, which is almost always fatal on the tougher difficulties. 
 You also have a nicely varied arsenal, ranging from regular firearms to a gun that shoots metal 
 stakes (which can pin enemies to the wall) , a particle cannon sniper rifle, and a triple rocket 
 launcher. The heavy weapons are essential for some of the tougher foes you'll face in addition 
 to standard soldiers - armored heavy troopers and large rocket-launching mechs. Instead of the 
 popular recharging health mechanism many shooters now favor, F. E. A. R. reverts to having health 
 packs and extendable max life. The health packs are easily accessible (used by hitting Y) which 
 is good because on the hardest difficulty you will sometimes need as many as a half a dozen in 
 a fight. F. E. A. R. does a nice job with its horror atmosphere. While it certainly isn't as scary 
 as it is made out to be, it does have many creepy moments. Whether the it's lights in a claustrophobic 
 corridor that suddenly begin to flicker and boxes flying off the shelves, shadowy figures seen 
 prowling around, or a creepy little girl (just like the one from the Ring) crawling at you in the 
 vents, F. E. A. R. always keeps you tense and on your toes. When the game doesn't feel like a horror-movie, 
 it instead becomes a high-octane action flick. In slow-mo, bullet trails distort the air, explosions 
 send out rippling shockwaves, and gunfire kicks up clouds of dust. The gore effects are amazing, 
 and coupled with a great physics engine, makes for wonderful death animations. Many weapons can 
 gib your enemies, but the bloodiest one is the shotgun, which, if you aim at the neck, can take 
 off an enemie's head, leaving a stump that spurts blood as the corpse slumps to the ground. If 
 you aim for the gut, you can actually blast a trooper's torso clean off. There is nothing like 
 watching a disembodied torso flying over a railing, firing its rifle in death reflex, and landing 
 a floor below, splattering blood all over. The single player campaign offers little variety in 
 terms of environments, but the sheer intensity of the combat means you won't notice as you progress 
 through various office buildings and industrial facilities, blasting clones. The story is fairly 
 good and revealed along the way through cutscenes as well as audio info found in phone messages 
 and computers. There are achievements for playing through the campaign in different ways (example: 
 without using slow-mo) so there is good replay value here, and since the combat is never the same 
 twice the single player mode remains appealing for a long time. Multiplayer is actually very good, 
 though limited to standard Deathmatch, CTF, and Elimination. Very little lag is experienced online, 
 and the maps are decently designed. Very few people still play it however, so this is one you'll 
 want to get for the single player. F. E. A. R. is one of the better FPS games that can be had on the 
 360, and positively the best 'scary' game to come out yet, with terrific atmosphere. Get this, 
 and play it late at night in the dark with the sound up loud. You'll love it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Crazy_Kid314
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 16, 2007 9:44 pm PT
Review:  F. E. A. R. is pretty enjoyful. Nothing puts a warm smile on my face like watching the omen's sister 
 run around and turn people into that juicy mummy in the 1999 movie The Mummy. The music fits well 
 with any situation, the graphics are refreshing with blood squirting everywhere (sigh) , and the 
 story is dynamic as well as the AI that puts a tear in my eye. HA... that rhymed. Anywho. The game 
 does such a good job with the level design that you always find yourself looking over your shoulder. 
 The gun fights are fun and the ninja style killing guys make you want to scream. If you are looking 
 for a fun thrill ride with gallons of blood, then buy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PhantomNemesis
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 16, 2007 12:09 pm PT
Review:  Ever seen one of those over the top movies where everything explodes, everyone dies and everything 
 seems to be in slow motion or just look really cool? Ever wanted to do that? Then you should go 
 out and pick up FEAR right now! Taken from the PC to the 360 and PS3, it's one great and spooky 
 FPS worth playing.
  
  The story is about a girl; Alma. She had psychic capabilities, and was forced to be experimented 
 on to try and create the perfect soldiers, and was also part of a project to create psychic commanders, 
 who could control an army in their mind.
  
  You are a member of FEAR (First Encounter Assault Recon) another one of those secret government 
 units who this time fights the paranormal. Think of it as a violent Ghostbusters story. You start 
 off searching for the one psychic commander, Paxton Fettel. Whom is controlling an army of the 
 supersoldiers mentioned earlier. Fun.
  
  There is a slight lack of story in the game, it's not really handed to you on a silver platter. 
 You learn most of the details from Phone messages and laptops ingame, and have to go from there.
 
  
  In terms of the game itself, it's awesome. The graphics are perfect, they're not realistic, but 
 hyped up like a Hollywood movie, sparks, explosions, brickwork being riddled with bullet holes. 
 It can even be fun to just spray a wall to see all the dust and sparks burst out.
  
  Unfortunately, the game doesn't really like to give you variety in it's environments. The same 
 corridors and scenery can make it feel repetitive, with the odd highlight here and there. But it 
 does present them in an awesome way.
  
  The weapons are great fun, all of them are balanced as each other. So you won't always have to 
 ditch that pistol after the first level. You can only carry three at a time though, but this does 
 make sense after all. Some weapons such as the shotgun are the ones you'll want to keep from start 
 to finish, there's nothing more rewarding than hearing the screams of a soldier as you let a shot 
 rip him apart.
  
  Then we get to the cool part, the SlowMo, if you thought the game couldn't get any more Hollywood, 
 you'll be surprised. SlowMo is pretty much self-explanatory, everything goes slow, except you, 
 and you can see bullets zip past, pretty much the whole Matrix thing. It's great fun to jump out 
 from cover, guns blazing and seeing the bullets fly into an enemy. Or even better, the gruesome 
 death of a shotgun at point blank range, in SlowMo, you'll often see a red vapour cloud appear, 
 you can guess what that is.
  
  Then we get to the scary part, Alma. She'll be haunting you through the game, along with Fettel, 
 and it does get quite scaring in some parts. You'll be feeling the adrenaline rush through the 
 whole game, trust me. In terms of enemies, we don't see much variety again, with the usual grunts, 
 and about 5 or so kind of heavy bad guys to deal with. The AI is smart, they'll make cover from 
 tables or shelves, they'll flank you, or smoke you out with Grenades, and you may be resorting 
 to SlowMo a lot to fight back against the skilled fighting machines.
  
  The multiplayer is unfortunately not too active, though you could probably find a game, there isn't 
 going to be a massive fan base around. However, there is a fun little gimmick of Instant Action 
 added in from the PC version, whilst this does feel like an add-on so we won't cry port, it is 
 actually fun. You'll be thrown into some environments from the game, and will have to fight your 
 way through to the end. This can be a good bit of fun on harder difficulties.
  
  In terms of Achievements, you won't be getting the 1000 Gamerscore in a week from FEAR. There is 
 a lot of them, and a good few involve online play, which is not too active. Some of them are a 
 little disappointing, giving 5 points or so from doing something quite time-consuming, it's more 
 for fun than anything.
  
  To top if off, FEAR is a great game, it gives you a nice feeling to see something so awesome. As 
 I keep saying, it's like a Hollywood movie, which is something I would like to see more often! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: residentevil725
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 13, 2007 8:48 am PT
Review:  This game is a pretty good title for the 360. The gameplay is extrememly simple in the FPS genre 
 so in the shooting aspect, your not gonna see anything new. The whole key to this game is in the 
 sound and visuals that cause the player to be stunned in fear while playing this game. It gets 
 you to the point when your peeking around corners because your scared of what is there. Theres 
 also some intresting battles in the game along with some intresting weapons. But overall it is 
 an extremely average game for an FPS, but it still is a great one. Bottom line, its a must-rent 
 at the least or maybe even a buy =) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dremora27
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jul 13, 2007 8:39 am PT
Review:  Ok, There is a lot to say about this game...... Number one: Scary as hell lol. If you dont like games 
 that have creepy stuff just pop out at you DONT BUY THIS GAME lol. It has a lot of that....... Number 
 two: The gameplay is awsome. I like it because the sensitivity of the crosshair movement is just 
 right. Plus I like it because you have the ability to kick if you dont have any ammo left (which 
 you most likley wont have muck because you will be shooting at just about everything that moves 
 lol) . Number 3: ONLINE PLAY IS GREAT!!!! I only played it online once but it amazed me to the point 
 that i really wanted to do it again lol......... Ok, back to the scare factor. This game is really 
 really creepy. The most random, creepy stuff happens when you least expect it! It scared the hell 
 out of me. People might say that OO Condemed is scaryer .... NO WAY. Condemed is scary but i think 
 fear takes the cake on that one. Well, thats pretty much all I have to say about this game so............ yeah 
 lol. Please leave me some feedback and tell me if this was any good lol. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dr_Neptune
Rating: 7.9
Date: Jul 12, 2007 10:52 am PT
Review:  F. E. A. R is a good game, buy it if you're into scary films and first person shooters. The levels 
 are dark and gloomy, and there are parts which will make your heart miss a beat. I half enjoyed 
 the game, but i played it to the end anyway. The ending is a bit of a letdown, but some of the 
 fire fights along the way make the game worth buying or borrowing from a friend as i did.
  Replay value is pretty low, for me at least. I wouldn't want to repeat the experience, as much 
 as i enjoyed it the first time through.
  I spent about 15 hours completing it on 'moderate' - some parts are harder than others, but the 
 use of slow motion helps a lot.
  The game features some cool weapons, especially the prototype lazer gun that can turn a bad guy 
 into a burning skeleton.
  
  Pick up this game if you think you can handle it, otherwise check out Rainbow Six Vegas or Call 
 of Duty 2, in my opinion both superior games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blademaster237
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 9, 2007 6:09 pm PT
Review:  Story: You are trying to stop a... Cannibal? I really did not get the story, it was just so confusing! 
 There's this little screaming all over the place and trying to kill you. So I mean who am I trying 
 to kill here?
  
  Gameplay: Mostly in my opinion there is nothing wrong here. Controls are easy and it is not insanely 
 hard (only if you want it to be) . The best part is the horror! I mean I can't tell you what kind 
 of stuff happens but this is one scary game!
  
  Graphics: Very good, but they could've been a little bit better. I mean this is the 360, the could 
 have been a little bit more detailed. The character s were good, but not perfect.
  
  Sounds: So good I peed my pants! The moans, shrieks, creaking, little saying I know you! Yeah but 
 I don't know you, sorry! In a nutshell the sound is superb.
  
  Replay Value: THE DOWNFALL. It is no fun replaying it because you already know who's gonna die 
 and who's gonna pop out of that corner.
  
  Overall: I HIGHLY RECOMMEND THIS GAME. It shall blow your mind. But it is NOT for smaller audiences 
 and people who get scared easily. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Godsofplunder
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 7, 2007 3:42 am PT
Review:  The first day I got the game, I just couldn't put it down! I have read all the reviews, I have 
 listened to all the hype, but until I actually played F. E. A. R., I never knew what a pulse pounding 
 story I was missing out on! Had I known, I would have owned this game MUCH sooner! The campaign 
 storyline is cool, although a little difficult to figure out at first. The graphics are smooth 
 and lifelike.
  The gameplay is quite easy and very manageable.
  Voice audio and background music is done well, however some of the in game effects sound a tad 
 cheesy (walking sounds like you are galloping on a pony) .
  I don't want to give anything away concerning campaign storyline, I 'll let you to figure that 
 out on your own.
  Well worth the play!!
  
  Much like GOW, F. E. A. R. is all about the online play!
  Most of your achievements will be acquired 
 here online.
  So if you are one that is into the Multiplayer scene, THIS is another game for you!
  
  Great 
 job Vivendi Games!
  
  - Gods of plunder 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tomdogg
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jul 6, 2007 12:39 pm PT
Review:  Last year, FEAR finally came out for the Xbox 360. I was originally going to buy this version, 
 but when my new PC came along, I settled for the PC version. After about 5 months, my right arm 
 started to hurt from using the computer so much, and it got to the point where I couldnt even 
 play FEAR anymore. So, I decided to give my arms a rest, but still wanted to play FEAR so badly. 
 I settled with buying the Xbox 360 version and I was not disappointed. It is inferior to the PC 
 version in a few ways but is pretty much the same game. (Note: I will be cutting and pasting a 
 great deal from my last review of the PC version since I dont feel like writing a whole new one.)
 
  
  You play as the newest recruit to a secret US military organization code-named FEAR. FEAR is a 
 military task force that deals with paranormal situations far beyond the call of duty. When a military 
 commander named Paxton Fettle goes insane and takes over an army of military clones who are telepathically 
 linked to him, and goes on a rampage in an American city named Auburn, its up to the FEAR team 
 to stop him.
  
  Graphics- 8/10
  When FEAR came out, its graphics engine was top of the line and its still an awesome engine today. 
 FEAR simply looks incredible from head to toe. Everything from the character models, to the environments, 
 to the special effects look incredibly lifelike, and the atmospheric feel they give off make the 
 game look even better. When players fire a gun, it feels as if theyre firing a gun, and it looks 
 just as good too. The fighting even damages the environment, such as putting bullet holes in walls, 
 blowing holes in floors, and setting fires. Even the minor details, such as dust, smoke and particles 
 look incredible too. However, that doesnt mean that the visuals dont have their problems. Some 
 of the environments feel a bit too recycled at time, and the textures are mostly the same for every 
 single level. Also, with the Xbox 360 version, I did notice that there was some better lighting 
 than the PC version, but other than that, the visuals are basically the same as the PC version. 
 The framerate also holds up well but can barely stutter at a few points. The visuals in FEAR are 
 a little dated but still hold up well. Sound- 10/10
  FEAR gives off an incredibly amazing atmospheric feel, not just in graphics, but in sound too. 
 As players progress through the level, there will be situations where you must deal with Alma. 
 Thats when the sound truly shines out above the rest. The sound effects make the scenarios seem 
 so lifelike, its hard to tell whats real and what is not. Thats how good the sound is. From 
 the voice acting, to the individual sound effects or firing a gun, even bumping into objects, the 
 sound is astonishing. Even when players arent dealing with Alma, FEAR still manages to do excellent. 
 Any other sound effects such as footsteps of enemy soldiers from far away, hear objects dropping, 
 even wading through water sounds incredibly realistic. The music is also excellent and helps to 
 influence the atmosphere. Overall, the sound is the best aspect of FEAR.
  
  Gameplay- 8/10
  The gameplay of FEAR, while still good, has really worn off a bit since its release 
 on the PC. That dosent mean that its crap, but its not quite as fresh as it used to be. Still, 
 FEAR strikes a perfect balance of Kinetic, visceral firefights, along with scenarios of psychological 
 horror. The 1st scenario is the encounters with Alma. The scary moments and atmospheric sounds 
 make for a very creepy scene, and did a great job at making me forget that it wasnt real. On the 
 other hand, theres the kinetic, intense firefights with the clone soldiers. Not only are these 
 firefights fun, but challenging too. Monolith must have done a heap load of work on the AI, because 
 these guys are good. There will be a scenario where multiple soldiers will lay down covering fire 
 from all sides, just so a fourth one can come up and either flank your position or toss a grenade 
 your way. Other times include the soldiers taking over all key points of the battlefield, throwing 
 a grenade at you, forcing you to move, then hammer you with heaps of gunfire. Still, it wont take 
 too long to figure out how to beat them, since players are fighting the same enemies over and over 
 again. The firefights can actually become a bit repetitive. There are also a variety of weapons, 
 such as the pistol, machine gun, assault rifle, shotgun, and the new machine pistol, which can 
 be dual wielded. However, players will most likely stick to the machine gun. After players finish 
 the campaign, which takes about 10 hours, theres an instant action mode, where players have to 
 make it through the level as fast as possible. Afterward, their score can be uploaded to Xbox live 
 and compared on leaderboard. Theres also a bonus mission that lasts all of 10 minutes at the most, 
 making it not much of a bonus. The multiplayer is pretty much the same as the PC version so theres 
 not much to say about that. Still, its pretty cool as it includes campaign features such as the 
 slow motion ability. Only one player can control the ability at a time though, but others can take 
 control of it if that player is killed. The downside is that you can only use the slow motion ability 
 for limited bursts, and since everyone knows where you are at all times, this can be used to hunt 
 you down. Its still just as fact paced as the single player and can be a lot of fun. On the downside, 
 theres the achievements, which are extremely hard to achieve. They normally include performing 
 super-human feats such as playing the campaign without dying or not using the slow motion ability. 
 Most of them are locked which requires even more effort.
  
  In the end, anyone whos PC cant play FEAR, this version is for them. Otherwise, most people will 
 play it just for the bonus features and nothing else. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GCROCKS18
Rating: 5.2
Date: Jul 17, 2007 10:30 am PT
Review:  Have you ever wondered to yourself Hey, I wonder what a game would be like if they gave it an overcomplicated 
 controll scheme and removed one of the most vital parts of the fps genre set up? well look no further 
 FEAR is an all right fps with some pretty decent ideas and its pretty fing scary at times, almost 
 Clive Barker scary, almost. my main qualm with this game is the save system. it had save anywhere 
 on pc so why couldnt it have it on the xbox? on top of that wtf is up with the existing save points 
 idk how many times i saved with little to no health left. its very frusterating to get 3/4 of the 
 way thru a lvl and then die only to have to start from the beginning again and/or have a save point 
 but *gasp* when you respawn you have less health than you did before you died. all in all tho i 
 would say this one is pretty mediocre at best. if you find it cheap great. but i think the best 
 bet is to buy it on and play it the way it was ment to be played.
  
  update on july 17th
  i realize alot of you might not agree with my reveiw but this is simply my opnion and i think you 
 all should atleast rent it to try it out to see if you like it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CanadianMadCow
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 5, 2007 8:53 pm PT
Review:  F. E. A. R is a weird acronym that stands for First Encounters Assault Recon, which does not make 
 much sense. But besides the title, this game will make you fear little girls, and air ducts.
  
  So you are an agent of F. E. A. R and you are trying to hunt down an insane cannibalistic telepathic 
 general who has taken control of a clone army (they are not Jango Fetts) while being freaked out 
 along the way from some screwed up little girl who just appears and makes you scream. More or less 
 that's what the plot is, trying to kill Mr. Hannibal Lector which has you travelling to buildings 
 and basements and docks and more buildings. Besides that the story is filled with twists as you 
 find out what the F@ (% is going on. Along with it being as creepy as hell, story is quite good.
 
  
  Gameplay is good. It has all the things that a regular shooter would have, like controls and such. 
 You can wield all the normal kinds of weapons, like rifles and shotguns, which are still satisfying, 
 along with awesome weapons, like lasers that rip the skin off of enemies leaving a bloody corpse, 
 or the penetrator, a quake nail gun rip off that nails your enemies to walls and other objects 
 like..... That one guy to a thing. Sorry horrible simile. But what makes these guns so great is 
 the fact that you can slow down time. Blowing a guy over a table and through a window in slow motion 
 is the most satisfying thing, especially if he was ticking you off. Speaking of enemies, the A. I 
 has to be one of the smartest. They will try to flank you, and use any way to take you out without 
 killing themselves in the process. Multiplayer is not as great as halo or some other games, but 
 it's still good. Death match, team death match is all there and there is a bit of customization 
 in it. So great game play, and that's good if you didn't know.
  
  Sound, is great. Not because of the sound of guns and the bullets and sound effects when you slow 
 time down, which are all good though, is the creepy music that plays as you play. It gives the 
 game atmosphere and will creep you out when walking down a dark corridor. If the music wasn't there. 
 I wouldn't be as freaked out by this game as I am.
  
  Graphics are very good. Though they are not as great as the Graphics in games such as Gears of 
 War but this game was made before those graphics, not saying that they are horrible though. The 
 graphic are beautiful, well not beautiful but gritty especially with what they did with blood, 
 which there is a lot of and is freaky, especially where they put that blood, like on the ceiling. 
 Anyway, lighting, water effects, shine all of that is great and like sound, adds to atmosphere 
 of the eerie feeling of the game. If you want a great first person shooter for the 360, F. E. A. R 
 is a great choice and a bonus for people who like being freaked out. Just a bit of advice, I dont 
 recommend it for kids. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ihaveadreamcast
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jul 5, 2007 12:47 pm PT
Review:  Wow, I got this game. Played it and got scared out of my mind. The graphics are really good for 
 a FPS. The Audio is great and it captures very tense moments in the game without pounding loud 
 instrumental music over your head. The enemy AI is great. They will do anything to kill you. The 
 gameplay is great. This is the most intense games I have ever played. And I liked how you can slow 
 down time and make your kills look a lot nicer. I did like this game. But I couldn't enjoy it because 
 I don't really like games that scare the crap out of you. I just couldn't enjoy it knowing that 
 something is going to come around the corner and scare you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hipppvix
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 4, 2007 11:01 am PT
Review:  F. E. A. R. stands for First Encounter Assault Recon. In this game you are a person who fight weird 
 things such as ghost. Well in this game you get to fight a lot of ghost and a lot of people too.
 
  
  There are some interesting weapons in this game and many are quite powerful. Plus there are three 
 types of explosive excluding the rocket launcher. There is also a shotgun, some rifles, and a few 
 weapons that have no classification.
  
  The Multiplayer of F. E. A. R. is okay it's not great, but if your playing the game you should take 
 the time to see if you can get into a match. The achievements in this game are quite hard and the 
 ones that aren't only give you 5 points and there are a few that give you 0. So I wouldn't play 
 this game just for achievements unless you want to beat this game on the hardest difficulty, using 
 less than 500 pieces of ammo, not dying once, and killing every enemy in the game, plus using no 
 boosters. Then that will probably get you most of the points.
  
  So if your looking to have fun with a decent shooter I'd say rent this game, but I would wait to 
 buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: freshcutgrass1
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jul 1, 2007 12:38 pm PT
Review:  Plot: In F. E. A. R you are a member of the First Encounter Assault Recon. A squad given the task 
 of investigating the paranormal. You play as a recruit who did extremely well in training which 
 is just the excuse for slow-mo abilities.
  
  Graphics: The graphics are excellent, the lighting is superb, the blood and gore is aswell. Whether 
 a foe is shotgunned in half or into a cloud of blood. It has a stable framerate and it doesn't 
 look much different than the PC version which came out a year earlier.
  
  Gameplay: The slow-mo effect are top-notch and control great. It never gets old fighting in slow-mo. 
 The controls handle good and the shift from PC is almost flawless. The only the things wrong is 
 that the sensitivity feels odd and the lean in-out of cover feature doesn't feel perfect on a controller 
 as it does with a mouse and keyboard.
  Sound: The sound in F. E. A. R is also a high point in the game, because it gets you immersed in the 
 dark environments. The guns sound kool and they each sound better in slow-mo. The explosions in 
 slow-mo are just sick. But every now and then the sound will glitch.
  
  Value: The value for the game is the same as the PC version, except for the lackluster bonus mission 
 and new instant action mode. Which puts u in a place to survive waves and waves of enemies. The 
 multiplayer is fun and addictive with slow-mo variants to the gametypes such as, slow-mo team deathmatch 
 and slow-mo CTF. The problem is that even when the game was first released for xbox 360 its multiplayer 
 community was in shadow of the behemoth which is Gears of War. F. E. A. R.'s multiplayer never got 
 on its feet unfortunately.
  
  Achievements: The achievements are challenging and are definitely time consuming to those who try 
 to obtain them all. They include beating the game without a death, without slow-mo or playing 1000 
 multiplayer games.
  
  Tilt: F. E. A. R is worth checking out if you haven't already on PC. But it is definitely not worth 
 a second visit. It has decreased multiplayer support and the same single player. F. E. A. R. is a 
 great game though. It goes down as a game that could have became more popular but wasn't due to 
 its release being right before Gears of War. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xunhallowed
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jun 30, 2007 5:54 pm PT
Review:  FEAR was my first Xbox 360 game, and I was pleasantly surprised at the fresh, smart gameplay it 
 contained. You can even go into slow motion in the campaign, which is particularly helpful and 
 fun. Add online to the already great single player experience and you've got a pretty good game. 
 However, the gameplay has to make up for the less than amazing graphics. Low res textures and seemingly 
 unfinished character models detract from the experience, taking you out of the immersive feeling 
 you get when you play this game. I didn't find it to be too scary , but maybe that was just because 
 of the graphics. The usually laggy online is mostly unimpressive, featuring Capture the Flag, Deathmatch, 
 and some slo-mo based gametypes. With four difficulties, FEAR may promise a rewarding experience, 
 but you have to allow yourself to surrender to it, which you might not want to do. All in all, 
 a solid FPS worthy of your time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shmiity
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jun 28, 2007 9:29 pm PT
Review:  I bet everyone bought FEAR for the same reason I did. It got pretty good reviews, and Gamestop 
 had it on sale.
  
  I was blown away by this game. It had me creeped out 5 seconds in, and I was hooked. The first 
 few missions are low on action, high on scares, but it reverses later, when it becomes an action 
 thrill ride. The end is especially creepy. This game does not use B-Movie, Resident Evil scares, 
 like Zombie dogs busting out of windows. It uses Paranormal imagery, and atmosphere to scare you. 
 You fight super-human soldiers through out the game, who fire guns and crap at you. You fire back 
 and mess people up, all in awesome first person Shooter action.
  
  (You can slow down time too!)
  
  FEAR has hectic multiplayer, since you can turn up the running 
 speed, and mess with physics.
  
  Overall, awesome title.
  
  But be warned, its not a good game for Achievements, and if you play just for them, don't play 
 this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CRUSHINATOR
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 28, 2007 3:45 pm PT
Review:  For those of us that dont have the powerful PC required to experience FEAR at its finest, the 
 games release on Xbox 360 and PS3 is quite a boon. Though the game is a year old, its amazing 
 gunfights, scary thrills, and first-rate graphics dont feel dated in the least, and the developers 
 have added some new content to keep the game fresh.
  
  Most of the game takes place from the perspective of the unnamed point man for the First Encounter 
 Assault and Recon (FEAR) team, an organization set up by the government to fight paranormal threats. 
 The game begins as theyve been tasked with killing one Paxton Fettel, a man with a telepathic 
 link to a battalion of super-soldier clones created by Armacham Technology. Fettel has taken control 
 of the soldiers and started killing a whole lot of people, so naturally your job is to kill him. 
 Things get very creepy very fast as it becomes apparent that Fettel is no normal human and that 
 he has some connection with you and Alma, the Ring-esque little girl who appears at certain scary 
 moments and is apparently killing everyone sent in to stop Fettel.
  
  Despite the somewhat absurd premise of Fettel and his clone army (dont worry, there are no Jedi 
 in the game) , the story is very cool and very thrilling right up until the end. The problem is 
 that the presentation is spotty. Most of the plot points are presented through messages left on 
 answering machines and data downloaded from laptops, which can get a little confusing, especially 
 since there seem to be multiple operations going on at Armacham.
  
  But one could theoretically play the game while totally ignoring the story since the action is 
 so good. FEAR allows for some serious destruction throughout the game. The guns generate lots of 
 smoke and debris and trash the walls with exaggerated bullet holes and blood. Theyre also numerous 
 and fun to use; while youre limited to three weapons, you can choose any combination of rifles, 
 SMGs, or heavy weapons, and finding ammo is rarely a problem. Grenades are a little less common, 
 though theyre fun to use and generate amazing explosions that totally destroy the area where they 
 went off. The most unique aspect of FEARs combat is the players ability to slow time for an edge 
 over the enemies that also looks and sounds awesome.
  
  All of this is enhanced by the excellent enemy AI. These arent mindless clone soldiers; they dodge 
 and take cover, suppress and advance, and run like hell when they realize theyre about to die. 
 Their combat dialogue is well-voiced and very immersive. They patrol slowly if they havent seen 
 you, they recognize noises you make, and will be alerted if they see your flashlight before you. 
 The only downside is that theres little variety to these soldiers. You meet progressively stronger 
 versions as you progress through the game and there are some heavy boss-types, but these mainly 
 just stand around and absorb your bullets while they try to deal more damage than normal to you. 
 Still, the excellent AI is incredibly fun to fight and very satisfying to kill.
  
  The graphics of FEAR are at their highest level on the 360 and look excellent. Textures are rich 
 and the characters are well-detailed. The spectacularly atmospheric light and shadows deserve special 
 mention. And even with smoke and debris flying everywhere, the framerate stays smooth. A minor 
 complain would be that the HDR lighting and new particle system that the developers added for the 
 360 version are barely noticeable. But a larger issue is the somewhat repetitive visual design 
 of the industrial and office complex levels. While they look really cool at first, these environments 
 dont seem to lend themselves very well to interesting level design and begin to get monotonous. 
 Much more interesting is the abandoned slum near the end of the game, where urban decay meets futuristic 
 military technology. The score is generic horror-movie stuff, and its quite good, but more notable 
 is the voice acting. All of the characters are well-voiced, and the combat dialogue is especially 
 cool to listen to.
  
  FEARs multiplayer is also great fun. Unlike Halo or Counter-Strike, FEAR lends itself well to 
 fast-paced Unreal-style games. Rather than searching around for every weapon, you can choose whichever 
 weapon you want to start a game with, though there are some power weapons scattered around the 
 map. FEARs time-slowing power is also well-integrated into multiplayer, as one player controls 
 it at first, but any other player can use the power if they kill the player who had it first. Its 
 just unfortunate that theres no split-screen and that FEARs excellent single-player campaign 
 doesnt have a co-op mode, online or otherwise.
  
  The 360 version of FEAR adds a bonus single-player mission and the Instant Action mode, which is 
 a challenge to see how long you can hold out against an onslaught of FEARs soldiers, with rankings 
 being posted on Xbox Live. While this sweetens the deal for those already getting the game, its 
 not exactly enough to make the game worth buying for those whove already played through the PC 
 version.
  
  For those who missed out on last years excellent PC FPS, the 360 version of FEAR is a great value. 
 The single-player mode is exhilarating and scary, and the multiplayer is fast and equally exciting. 
 The graphics still look great, and the audio is excellent as well. Any fan of the genre should 
 pick up this game now that you dont need an expensive PC to run it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tingle-Tuner
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 23, 2007 8:56 am PT
Review:  F. E. A. R. is a first-person shooter that... really isn't as scary as I thought it would be.
  
  The storyline is a bit... mixed up, to say the least. You have to take out this guy who has 
 the ability to control these super-soldiers and somehow the guy you play as was part of this experiment... 
 and then thers these ghosts... and ninjas...
  
  Storyline aside, the gameplay ine F. E. A. R. is pretty solid and straight foreward. You have to kill 
 the bad guys and get through the levels, all whilst not getting killed by said bad guys. There 
 is one noteable feature in the gameplay, and the is slo-mo. Thats right, you have bullet -time 
 in this game, and you are going to have to use it if you want to stay alive because this game is 
 fast.
  
  In the end, F. E. A. R. is a decent and challenging FPS with an ending that is... interesting. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jamesrojao
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 22, 2007 4:57 am PT
Review:  This game rocks. I wasnt to sure about this game cause Ive know sierra to make some crappy games, 
 but i took the risk and it paid off. The graphics and the sound are amazing. The one aspect of 
 the game that I like so much is the details in the artillary they have I mean the guns look so 
 realistic. The game starts off with a scar asa im just searchin the area and out of nowhere a guy 
 on the rooftop nails me it made me jump. i wish they couldve added a split screen on the game so 
 me and my buddies can play it. First person shooters to me is the best genre in video games and 
 this game is another reason why. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sonyrules36
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 21, 2007 10:08 am PT
Review:  First encounter assault recon (fear) is one of the best first person shooters out there for the 
 xbox 360. fears A. I is perfect its one of of a few games were the enemies aren't retarted. There 
 are a couple of difficulties for anyone to enjoy. FEAR also has very freaky and suspenseful things 
 like, your walking along and all of a sudden a mech comes break through the ceiling, or all of a 
 sudden everything starts goining in slomo and your falling in a pool of blood. The fire fights are 
 awesome everybody shooting until all you see is smoke. Going into slomo is so cool like kicking 
 or nailing someone into the wall (nailing is one of the coolest features in the game) . The game also 
 lacks a bit of gore like you can shoot a guys head off but it doesnt always happen when you shoot 
 the guy in the head so alittle more gore would be nice. Also the little freaky girl adds a nice 
 to touch to the horror in the game. So overall the game is really good and it is worth buying (for 
 the 360 not ps3) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: andoman19
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jun 20, 2007 11:33 pm PT
Review:  What do you think of when someone says fear. if you think of scary guys in mask shooting at you 
 and a girl in a little red dress then you need help. first encounter assualt recon is a really good 
 game and has a perfect story line and the graphics look buetiful. just hearing the title of the 
 game sends a tingling sensation down your spine and it makes the hairs on the back of your next 
 stand up. And the online multiplayer is also good the severs are never empty. all in all the game 
 is a great addition to your xbox360 game collection so if you enjoy a good story mode and good 
 graphics and all day fun get first assualt recon [F. E. A. R.] 
::::::

::::::
UserName: freshdrew
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jun 20, 2007 12:10 pm PT
Review:  What do you think of when someone says fear. if you think of scary guys in mask shooting at you 
 and a girl in a little red dress then you need help. first encounter assualt recon is a really good 
 game and has a perfect story line and the graphics look buetiful. just hearing the title of the 
 game sends a tingling sensation down your spine and it makes the hairs on the back of your next 
 stand up. And the online multiplayer is also good the severs are never empty. all in all the game 
 is a great addition to your xbox360 game collection so if you enjoy a good story mode and good 
 graphics and all day fun get first assualt recon [F. E. A. R.] 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alpha172
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 17, 2007 2:46 am PT
Review:  Campaign: The game can be quite dull in some ways when you play long enough to realise that it 
 doesn't have alot of nice visual effect around the character, except the bullets that fly out of 
 the weapons, they're really nice.
  It has quite a few strategies in the game which makes it hard to run and gun when you gotta go 
 through certain objects to open stuff like the elevator.
  It can get really scary in certain places, like walking down the ladder when that freaky girl pops 
 out of nowhere with creepy sounds. The multiplayer is.... Hell if I know, I havent even played 
 it yet and I've got the game for like 5 Months and I hardly played it after completing the campain. 
 What else... Oh yeah, I like pizza and milkshakes 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KillErmarinE15
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 16, 2007 5:09 pm PT
Review:  F. E. A. R. (First Encounter Assualt Recon) is a awesome shooter. The guns are really cool, but they 
 are not much different from other shooters, except the HMV Penetrator (a. k. a. Nailgun) which is 
 a fun gun to screw around with. All the guns work as you expect they would. The Submachine gun 
 and assualt rifles are good for spraying bullets everywhere. The shotgun is overpowered, and the 
 sniperrifle is accurate and deadly.
  The scares in F. E. A. R. are great, for the first hour, then you expect everything else.
  Mulitplayer 
 is fun, but pretty bullcrap. Shooting someone in the head, they dont die, get hit in the face, 
 instant death. ARRGGHH. Single player is good, but the enviroments are repeated, over and over 
 and over and over and over and over again.
  Sorry for the short review, running out of time to get somewhere. Note: sorry if this does not 
 space. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DerekKwok1
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jun 15, 2007 7:56 am PT
Review:  FEAR is awesome! It is not too difficult and has its own unique style that makes it stick out. 
 The gun selection is sufficient and the creepiness in this game is just enough to make any person 
 playing not want to go to the next level or something. This game has the unique effect of being 
 able to slow down time which allows you to take out a slow moving enemy with ease. This game is 
 so engaging that you feel like you have to know what the story is about because of the very queer 
 girl that appears many times and because of all the wierdness going on with you all of a sudden 
 being transferred to an alternate dimension blood lake trying to get to a mysterious door that 
 you hear screaming inside of to try to uncover your past. This is a very spooky game, but the gameplay 
 is fantastic. If you hit a soldier in the right spots, you can blow off arms, legs, heads, and 
 even blow their body in half. The environments are spooky where there are many dead people lying 
 around in pools of blood some missing flesh. This makes you wonder what happened to them. I would 
 recommend this game because you will have a blast with that girl popping up behind you and a mysterious 
 man you are trying to eliminate constantly reminding you of your past. The voices inside your head 
 are very creepy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ResidentEman
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 13, 2007 8:20 pm PT
Review:  This game is an awesom FPS with a very scary atmosphere. In the game, you play as an unidentified 
 protagonist, this is because the developers want you to believe you are the hero. Anyway, when 
 a psychic commander of a battalion of cloned supersoldiers goes insane due to a spiritual presence, 
 you and the team you are with are called in. The enemy AI is excellent, and they will use flanking 
 maneuvers, grenades, mines, a variety of weapons, and in some cases, the environment to their advantage. 
 If there is a window near you, they won't run around looking for a door like in other games. They 
 will jump THROUGH the window to get to you. That brings us to graphics. Glass and water effects 
 in this game are great. The splashes are excellent, and even accentuated with ripples. When glass 
 breaks, it doesn't just fragment into a few regular polygonal shapes and disappear. It spiderwebs 
 realistically into numerous irregular, random pieces and falls to the floor. Even on the floor, 
 it doesn't disappear. You can even break the glass in picture frames! Character models are highly 
 detailed, and the enemy varieties are cool, but some of them can be frustrating to defeat. Weapons 
 are very creative. Everything from a dual wieldable pistol to a gun that nails people to walls 
 is available. The sounds of the guns are very realistic. The game also features fleshy noises when 
 you hit enemies. One cool thing is the splatter you hear after slicing an enemy in half with the 
 shotgun. The game is a nice length for an FPS, at about 10-12 hours to beat. The storyline is definitely 
 the high point in those hours. I won't ruin it for you, but this game is very scary due to the 
 story line, and many spiritual encounters. Overall, this game is an action packed, scare filled 
 thrill ride that is definitely worth a purchase. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: silent_rip
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jun 10, 2007 12:12 am PT
Review:  First Encounter Assault Recon, or F. E. A. R. (Let's just go with the latter, shall we?) is a first 
 person shooter that mixes nonstop action with Japanese horror movie style scares. The result is 
 a fun experience that is sure to send a chill down your spine. However, a few small problems keep 
 this game from being truly great.
  The game's story line mainly revolves around investigating strange paranormal activities and uncovering 
 the truth behind some shady cloning business. I wont give away anymore in the interest of not spoiling 
 the plot. You play as a F. E. A. R. agent who's reflexes are off the chart. Because of this you have 
 the ability to enter slo-mo and do some pretty cool stuff. There's something deeply satisfying 
 about gibbing some poor clone in slo-mo with a shotgun to the gut. Don't think that will be so 
 easy, though. The A. I. in F. E. A. R. is some of the best in a first person shooter. Soldiers will 
 take cover, report positions, and use teamwork to make sure you don't reach the next checkpoint. 
 And with the difficulty at the maximum level, they become very good at this.
  The weapons in F. E. A. R. are a mix of typical first person shooter guns, and some more unique implements 
 of death. You've got your standard pistol (can be dual wielded) , assault rifle, shotgun, rocket 
 launcher, etc... In addition F. E. A. R. features weapons such as the penetrator and particle gun. 
 The penetrator fires bolts that will pin and enemy to the wall with a well-placed shot. The particle 
 weapon is a scoped beam that burns away everything but bone. This weapon is the closest thing to 
 a sniper rifle in the game. Of course you will find grenades and land mines scattered about. Use 
 these in combination with slo-mo and I dare you to not smile.
  The story isn't too long, but is very well paced. You'll never find yourself more than two minutes 
 away from a huge firefight. Mixed into the action are short horror sequences that have you walking 
 down blood soaked corridors witnessing scenes that help move the story along. But when the game 
 is over, it'll leave you wanting more. The game felt like it was over too soon and as far as the 
 plot goes, it didn't feel satisfying. Multiplayer isn't anything special, but maybe that's why 
 it is good. It doesn't really do anything new, but manages to be a solid experience. Sadly, it 
 is just plain outdone by great multiplayer games like Gears of War and Rainbow Six Vegas.
  The graphics to a great job of conveying the game's horrific atmosphere. The lighting casts some 
 great looking shadows and the particle effects are superb, especially during big gunfights were 
 bullets chip away at brick walls and send sparks flying and bouncing about. What really hurts is 
 how repetitive the environments are. Nearly every chapter of the game has you in an office building 
 or a warehouse. This gets old very fast. The frame rate will begin to chug when there is too much 
 on screen at once, but other than that, the game engine runs smoothly.
  The controls feel a little awkward. They just don't feel as tight or responsive as other games 
 in the genre. It feels a little difficult and move gracefully or slowly, but to be fair, the game 
 never really presents the need to do so.
  When it's all said and done, F. E. A. R. is a game that proves itself as a true contender on the 360 
 and should be picked up by fans of shooters and horror movies alike. It's not perfect, but the 
 fantastic atmosphere and gameplay make up for it's flaws. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigdaddy9
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jun 9, 2007 12:56 pm PT
Review:  Alright I went into this game thinking ok this game is going o be AWESOME, usually when I think 
 that the game SUCKS but not this one! I first started the game, and was very quickly disturbed 
 by the movie after you hit start new game b/c a very crazy guy was EATIng a person, I mean it was 
 just gross, but I quickly got over that and realized the game has begun! It stumpted me at first 
 b/c you see when I play video games i do not really like to think alot, I like to get in and start 
 killing! But I fgured out that you had t bust down the wood with your fists and you had to be aiming 
 right at it for it to work. But I have only gotten a little ways into the second level and I have 
 alady been scared for life b/c you have to go and find your teammate and as your looking for him 
 all the sudden you hear a loud scream and then you keep walking and adead guy pops up in front 
 of you and then disapears, and then a creepy guy at the end of a hall passes by a doorway! (that 
 may not sound to scary but play the game and you will be freaked out!) But I love this me and am 
 gonna keep playinan basicly if you Half Life you will love this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: weapon_d00d816
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 6, 2007 12:19 pm PT
Review:  Campaign
  
  Probobly the best FPS campaign I've ever played. It has a very dark and eery setting. Long, dark, 
 silent hallways are all around this game, leading up to a big shootout with a bunch of enemies. 
 The story isn't exactly... um... there, but the constant objectives make up for that. The graphics 
 are good, but not Gears of War quality. Still good though.
  
  Multiplayer (online)
  
  The Xbox live multiplayer is fun. Not too great though. Each match seems pretty unfair and random 
 combat around every corner. But, it has a great sense of competition. XBL play in this game is 
 better with friends so invite some.
  
  Weapons
  
  Very cool weapons. They all resemble modern weapons, but with a few differences. Some weapons are 
 pretty cheap in the multiplayer like the G2A2 assault rifle since it is much too powerful for a 
 multiplayer game but perfect for single player.
  
  Overall, I'd say this game's best feature is it's Campaign. If you dont have Xbox live and you 
 buy this game, dont be discouraged, you're in for a great experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bubear666
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 6, 2007 12:07 pm PT
Review:  To sum it up the title is not only a clever pun but also the way this game makes you feel when 
 you got the lights off. What I really love about this game is its military style of gameplay but 
 with a taste of japanese horror as well. While playing through films like the ring and the grudge 
 will spring to mind as the little girl keeps popping up to scare the hell out fo you. There is 
 a very good plot twist towards the end which will keep you guessing. The graphics are superb for 
 an old game the environments are destructable and the enemy AI is astounding they will duck and 
 cover but also will shot out orders to fellow troops and will try and catch you on the reload. 
 I really enjoyed this game and cannot wait for the sequel to come along. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nobeaner
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jun 4, 2007 12:18 pm PT
Review:  This review is from the single player perspective as I don't play games online anymore.
  
  I wasn't quite sure what to expect from FEAR. On one hand I had heard that the AI was pretty smart 
 but that there was a limited variation of enemies and would eventually feel repetitive. Well after 
 playing the game I have to say that is pretty much how I felt when I was done.
  
  Now FEAR is not a wimp when it comes to the visual department, gameplay or sound. The story is 
 also equally impressive and freaky at times, but having to piecemeal it together by hacking laptops 
 and listening to voicemails seemed a bit to convenient for me.
  
  The enemy AI was actually really good. they would attempt to flank or coordinate attacks against 
 my position which usually ment that every encounter was different in some way.
  
  The majority of the single player achievements require that you complete the game to unlock them. 
 This can be extremely frustrating if you forget to hack a laptop somewhere, miss one booster, didn't 
 kill one enemy or die at any point in the story. The achievements aren't brain busters to get, 
 but the game is unforgiving if you make a mistake.
  
  In the end I was glad I played, but it will probably be a while before I go back to try and unlock 
 some of the achievements I left behind. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: backinthekrak
Rating: 6.4
Date: Jun 3, 2007 4:19 pm PT
Review:  Come on, how many times can you walk through the same rediculously laid out office complexes waiting 
 for something to happen? Yes, it certainly has its creepy moments &amp; I did jump more than once, 
 but now I'm wondering if that makes up for the lack of stuff to DO. The plot is difficult to work 
 out &amp; isn't helped by the phone 'messages' and radio info that you can barely hear. The fights 
 are pretty easy but the enemy AI is good. Personally, I don't think the weapons look or sound especially 
 great - in fact, they look ripped straight out of 'Black' to me. And I know that a creepy game 
 HAS to take place in the dark, but the helmet light that you need to see goes out after a while 
 &amp; you constantly find yourself having to wait 5 or 7 irritating seconds for the light to recharge. 
 You know the feeling you get when you think you have to finish the game not because you want to 
 but because you paid 50 bucks for it? That's where I am now.... Not impressed 
::::::

::::::
UserName: csachaoskid24
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jun 2, 2007 2:55 pm PT
Review:  F. E. A. R. is a sci-fi/horror FPS game. It has great graphics. The gameplay is fairly decent giving 
 you moments of excitement and then a flash of a spooky ghost. The weapons and sound are very accurate, 
 and if you get scared easy, don't play this game, or else you will crap your pants. The setting 
 is that you're are apart of a new military group that is very high tech, and well trained. Pretty 
 cliche but it works. Plus, there are creepy cannibals running around and are disturing the peace. 
 Your job is to stop them. Along the way you'll encounter this freaky girl that is very hard to 
 beat. They also give you more melee moves aside from the standard rifle but and weaponry. You can 
 perform flying kicks, kicks, ground kicks, etc. Which adds a fairly good element to the game, because 
 these can take down people pretty easily. But watch out, the enemy has them to.
  
  As far as if it's more like a Rainbow Six, or Halo, or Call of Duty, it's a nice medium where if 
 you get hit once you're not dead but not too far from it.
  
  The multiplayer is pretty standard in that there are maps that you play DM, TDM, CTF, etc. on. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: christian1993
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 1, 2007 6:26 am PT
Review:  This game is a pretty good game. When i got it i thought it was going to be really freaky but it 
 really wasnt as i suspected. One cool thing about the game is the slow-motion. The game also has 
 a few cool guns. One of them is like a zapper and it kills a regular soldier in one shot. My favorite 
 weapons is the shotgun and the first machine gun you get. I have never played it online so i cant 
 tell you what its like. Overall this game is worth buying.
  
  I must say the little girl on the front cover is pretty freaky. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: illufox
Rating: 8.6
Date: May 30, 2007 4:09 pm PT
Review:  I only bought this because I ran out of FPS games to play on the 360. At first I was disappointed 
 as the graphics are not as good as in some of the other games I recently played. Also, the first 
 three levels were rather easy and somewhat boring. However, after a while the game picks up, and 
 the difficulty gets harder and harder. That's when I started to have fun, lots of fun. The ghostly 
 figures seem to be redundant as they don't do anything to you or for you. They are just there to 
 scare you, nothing else. So after a while you learn to simply ignore them. The game itself is surprisingly 
 long and offers lots of surprises and great challenges. I've never used that slow down tool, as 
 it seems redundant or just for weak players.
  
  Another redundancy are the voice mails. After a while I stopped listening to them, as it didn't 
 make a difference in the game play, and the messages were hard to understand due to the game noises.
 
  
  As a single player I'm dependend on games like this!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dfoboost
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 24, 2007 4:03 pm PT
Review:  i love all the body parts falling, a little disappointing though, better graphics and longer slow-mo 
 would be awesome. should be one of the greatest games ever made. come on in what game now can u go 
 up to a guy in slow-mo and put a whole bunch of needles in him or get a big laser cannon and shred 
 him to his bones, ive never seen a game like that. the campaign is ok but the girl does freak you 
 out sometimes when your not paying attention but u end up noticing her anyways so theres no scare 
 just a startle. the girl may seem scary but she isn't really she just pops up and trys to act like 
 shes going to kill you but you end up going right through her and laughing unless you hate scary 
 things the last thing is that always get the high powered machine guns they are awesome, cause all 
 you hear is that machine gun and the guys screaming as you put 50 bullets in them.. have fun =] ] ] 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yandor
Rating: 6.5
Date: May 25, 2007 7:07 pm PT
Review:  F. E. A. R. wants to be a lot of things, but succeeds only in one. It wants to be a horror game, but 
 its scares are so tame and far between each other, it only becomes annoying. Honestly, do we really 
 need ANOTHER little black-haired girl as the ghost? If you want to be scared, try Condemned. F. E. A. R. 
 wants to be a mystery game, but the story is so contrived and limp, you lose interest after about 
 the fifth phone call you answer as you roam around never-ending hallways ready to throw your paddle 
 as you desperately seek ANYONE to shoot. Seriously, there are times when a gun fight is separated 
 by fifteen or more minutes of running in circles trying to find a way to the next area. F. E. A. R. 
 wants to be a next-gen leader in graphics, but the environments are SO overly-detailed they become 
 nothing more than glossy objects that seem oddly out of place. And there is nothing more frustrating 
 than being an elite soldier that can move a chair in one room but be completely stopped by one 
 in another. F. E. A. R. wants to be innovative. It supplies you with a slow motion button that has 
 been done before and better. Sure, it's cool to see baddies blown up in slow motion, but give me 
 a better machine gun, or more powerful grenades.
  Where F. E. A. R. succeeds is with its superb A. I. If the developers had put as much love into the 
 rest of the game as they did with the A. I., this would be a contender for game of the year. When 
 (and believe me, you'll understand what I mean by when if you play this) you actually get into 
 a good gun fight, the enemy is quick, ruthless and deadly. Too bad they are confined to some of 
 the worst level designs I've ever seen. Still, I can't stress enough how amazing the A. I. really 
 are. It's a sheer delight to watch these guys in action as they flank, retreat, re-group and attack. 
 It feels like your fighting actual human opponents over Xbox Live. So okay, they got the A. I. right. 
 But it doesn't save this mess. Here are a few other things that bungle this game: Why on earth 
 can't we as gamers have a character that has a flashlight that stays lit for more than a minute? 
 I understand the concept behind this, but it's simply ludicrous to have to sit there and wait for 
 your flashlight to recharge . Again, you want scares AND a flashlight that stays on, play Condemned. 
 What's with the the lame voice acting? No kidding - every single enemy soldier has exactly the 
 same voice. It's shameful, especially considering how incredible the A. I. are. To hear the same 
 looped dialog from the same lame voice over and over is unforgivable. What's with all the glitches? 
 I stopped counting at 15 the number of times dead enemies seemed to hang in the air, or my character 
 got stuck in corners, forcing me to restart. And lastly, whose brilliant idea was it to have us 
 run around answering phones for clues? This has to be the sorriest idea yet for us to uncover a 
 mystery. Not to mention the fact that most of these messages were so garbled it was mostly impossible 
 to undersand them. Beneath all this mess is the heart of some truly exceptional game play . . . 
 if only they'd let us do it in a bigger, better environment, with a real story and weapons. Rent 
 this only. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jesus_knight
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jun 10, 2007 11:51 pm PT
Review:  F. E. A. R. was a game I wanted to play since the first time I heard about it unfortunately I didn't 
 have a high-end PC capable of running the game, systems requirements were very high by that time, 
 one the strongest points of the game was its graphics, actually it even beat doom 3 in the best 
 graphics gamespot award category, so when I heard the game was gonna be released on the 360 i was 
 prepared to see some espectacular graphics. Well, I got the game for the xbox 360 and I don't know... 
 I felt kinda dissapointed when I first saw the graphics, I am not saying the game is bad actually 
 is a very good game, it's just that graphics have evolved so rapidly that the textures and square-boxes 
 (believe me youll get to see a lot of square structures and objects) from this game look outdated, 
 even more if you've played games before like condmened or gears of war, well enough with the graphics. 
 The best thing about this game is its gameplay, you're gonna need to use slowdown motion (a matrix-like 
 effect) in order to survive, this is because the enemies you'll encounter are very powerful and 
 intelligent, they will make you feel like if you didn't have the slow-motion feature they could 
 kill you in just a matter of seconds, they move fast, they hide they organize, some of the best 
 AI you'll get to experience in a FPS that's for sure. the sound effects are superb and you really 
 get the feeling that you are using strong weapons, and some FPS developers should take note on 
 the weapons of this game, because this is how all FPS weapons should feel in every FPS game.
  
  A lot of people call this game spooky, as for me I think the game tries to hard to be scary, 
 and only in a couple of situations it really succedes, this game is like THE RING meets MATRIX 
 meets HALF-LIFE, if you've played half-life before somehow you will remember that game when playing 
 this one.
  
  The multiplayer is unbalanced, before start playing you'll be choosing a weapon the problem is 
 that everyone chooses the same rifle because it is the best weapon, and if you don't choose that 
 weapon I assure you... you'll hardly beat anyone if they're using that rifle and you're using a 
 different weapon, so it really feels unbalanced, actually in the game that rifle is not that powerful, 
 so something went wrong when creating the multiplayer aspect of the game.
  
  anyway the game is an original and fresh experience specially the single player mode, just don't 
 be expecting awesome graphics, the graphics are very good and that's all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SexxiyGunzz
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 24, 2007 4:10 pm PT
Review:  Okay. amazing story, nice graphics, good setting and atmosphere, good dialouge. What else could 
 you ask for?? how about some Fear. and thats exactly what you get with this game. If you enjoy 
 incedibly realistic gun battles where sh*t and dubriee flys all over the place when your facing 
 off with incedibly smart AI that take cover, tell each other what to do, and roll all over the 
 place, and at the same time like getting the crap scared outta you by little girls and a canniblistic 
 balding dude? then this is the game for you!
  
  Example: in the elevator going up.... stupid elevator music playing, after a second the music cuts 
 off and the lights flicker on and off, after the 4th flicker. the little girl Alma is standing 
 in the corner of the elevator starring at you, after a second it flick back on and off and shes 
 gone...
  
  Get this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gallmankids
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 22, 2007 7:08 am PT
Review:  Although I have yet to finish the game it is remarkable i feel the graphics are wonderful! The 
 gameplay is intense with the Ai in the game truly intelligent .
  
  I love how the game progresses you are in the story there arnt just videos that show you and tell 
 you what is going on, if you dont listen during gameplay or cant concentrate on gameplay and story 
 line this one may be tough but i encourage everyone to try!
  
  From what i have heard and seen unless you have a Supreme computer the xbox 360 version Kicks A$$ 
 in the graphics department so if you are contemplating go with the 360 version!
  
  The best added touch is the goosebumbs i get when playing I Love It!
  
  I can't wait for a 
 sequel if there will be! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -theking07-
Rating: 8.8
Date: May 18, 2007 3:58 pm PT
Review:  Good, but something is really missing from the whole story. The game play is very good but, its 
 just the fact that you go through the same looking level just about half of the game, then you 
 switch. The A. I is excellent, i actually had to take my time, even on the easy diff. The great 
 choice of weapons is good, so is the graphics! But at the head of the game is its exciting, intense, 
 parts where you just walk through a door and your transported to another place, thats really scary 
 and dark. Things jump out at you and you shoot frantically, just to stay alive, but then its destroyed 
 by the levels. So over all, its a good game for thrills, and story, but the levels is a real drag. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blaze1552
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 13, 2007 12:30 pm PT
Review:  F. E. A. R. is all you come to expect from a creepy horror - game. It has suspense, creepy scenes, 
 and lots of action! I loved it and when I beat the game I'll play to beat it again. It was awesome 
 and even if I'll get some bad pop for this I think it was scarier than the ever more popular, Doom. 
 That creepy little girl Alma, i think it is never gets old and I love it when she pops out it is 
 awesome! and whenit is freaky, the clones come and help you not be sacered no more heheh. Though 
 they do get annoing at one point.......... and suspense, well let's just say, suspense. Sometimes 
 it has comedy which kills every scary bit that game ever had . I mean when that fat guy, Norman 
 or something comes, the song kills everyhting. Over all this game is definatly worth the try. It 
 has a little creppy girl, a creepy atmoshere, and a cannibal.......... creepy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blue-fish
Rating: 7.7
Date: May 12, 2007 12:33 pm PT
Review:  Not that I have any special relationship with girls under the age of 14 but popular horror media 
 seems to be on a mission to make me terrified of them. Trying to make me nervous when passing a 
 grade school or squawk like a frightened bird when I hear the squeal of a female toddler. This 
 is so not cool yo. The latest girl who invited my home was of course the creepy girl from F. E. A. R. 
 as I'm reviewing it at this very moment. I'd heard it was a very good game. They were half right. 
 It is a good game with some lacking aspects. It looks ok, good for a few years ago and very passable 
 for today. But not exactly overwhelming. A lot of the character models lack definition and texture, 
 including the girl, and the weapons look a little... meh. They lack character if you know what 
 I mean. The environments are of course grey and lack texture as well. But the lighting is good 
 and the slow-motion is very well done. I know you have heard all this before, good AI, creepy campaign, 
 repetitive environments etc. Yay. I'll try and say something new here: You get used to the scares 
 and you get used to everything. The main problem is the story is very very predictable. It's easy 
 to guess how everything went from about the 30 min mark. Also, the downside of repedative environments 
 is this: When you work hard to accomplish a mission or objective (usually involving escaping) , 
 accomplish it then end up in basically the exact same friggin place you often feel like saying 
 FUGK IT, I'm going to get some food! and turn the system off. There is simply no feeling of accomplishment 
 until the very end of the game. And on that note, the end has the only real visual change in the 
 game which helps it to be satisfying enough to make you happy you played through 10 hours of corridors 
 and dark, small, shadowy rooms. The game comes down to the blasting away of enemy soldiers (who 
 are interesting enough to be enjoyable for those 10 hours) and walking through empty rooms and 
 atmosphere until you find more guys to blast away. And a final note. Achievements: They will piss 
 you off. For beating the game you get 30 achievement points. It's a real b1tch move on Monoliths 
 part, expecting you to play the campaign multiple (ie. more then 3) times and throw your body and 
 soul into the multiplayer to get anywhere near a respectable amount of achievements. It's a bit 
 of a d1ck move on their part if you ask me. Anyhow, it's a great rental and I never plan to have 
 children.
  
  ta' ta' 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shadowblade99
Rating: 7.4
Date: May 12, 2007 9:23 am PT
Review:  Ever since Wolfenstien was a smash hit on the PC back in the day people can't seem to get enough 
 of FPS. Every company has their own take on it, and the genre seems to have evolved very little 
 in all the years that it has become popular. FEAR is no different then your standard first person 
 shooter even though the title implies that it is. First off the graphics are ok on this game. I 
 know the XB360 is capable of better, but that's not really the main focus here. The controls are 
 very busy, it's not a game you can just pick up and play. You almost have to study the control 
 lay out for a 1/2 hour prior to loading up the game to know all of the things you can do. The game 
 does give you a tutorial through out the first level, but I don't think that should really be necissary 
 in a game that is basically shoot to kill. The sounds aren't out of place in this game and are 
 on par with prior and current FPS and the music is par for the course as well.
  
  You play a agent for F. E. A. R. investigating various areas for supernatural expierences. The only 
 thing is there is very little supernatural in this game. There is the occational little girl, that 
 does make you jump a little bit, but over all the game doesn't instill the fear in you like Silent 
 Hill, Resident Evil, or Condemed like the title implies. If you are looking for a run of the mill 
 FPS then this is a good canadate. The levels are lengthy, the AI is pretty smart, there are lots 
 of weapons, and the carnage is top notch. If you are looking for something a little different, 
 then this isn't the game for you. I would suggest renting or a demo version prior to buying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jubino
Rating: 7.6
Date: May 10, 2007 10:02 pm PT
Review:  Fear [feer] (n) : an unpleasant feeling of apprehension or distress caused by the presence of anticipation 
 or danger.
  
  F. E. A. R. [feer] (n) : a video game for the Xbox 360 that promises the player to feel apprehension 
 or distress caused by the presence of anticipation or danger, but ultimately fails in this campaign.
 
  
  I know what you're thinking, C'mon man, the game can't be that bad, it got an 8.6 , but the real 
 truth of it is that the game aims to scare you, but never really reaches that point.
  
  Story:
  The game itself features a story which is somewhat interesting but poorly delivered. 
 How does it play out you ask? Through uploading computer files to your comlink buddy, who briefs 
 you on the information, and voice mail. Yes, voice mail. Lame.
  
  Gameplay:
  This was perhaps the highlight of the game, although most of the weaponry was pretty standard and 
 unoriginal. You've got your pistol, shotty, assault rifles, grenades, and mines. The usual suspects. 
 But then you have your particle rifles, which act more like sniper rifles in the game. Sweet. Slow-mo 
 was also a huge plus in this department. Nothin like takin out 7 baddies with your shotty before 
 they even fire off a shot.
  
  Graphics:
  For the most part, graphics were good, but with such repetitive designs, I can't imagine it was 
 all that difficult. It felt like I was running through the same rooms over and over again, and 
 sometimes I actually was because I couldn't tell the difference.
  
  Sound:
  OK. That's all.
  
  Replay Value:
  Campaign was sort of weak sauce, so I don't really feel 
 the need to play through it again. Perhaps a good rental?
  
  So overall, the game was... OK. Graphics good, but designs pretty simple. Fun gameplay, but aside 
 from slow-mo it's not really anything new. But still, the fact that a game called F. E. A. R. didn't 
 even once make me feel uneasy, or even jump once, still bugs me, and therefore I can in all good 
 conscience really give it a higher score. Sorry Day 1 Studios, but you failed to live up to your 
 expectations. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: worshyr
Rating: 7.6
Date: May 9, 2007 7:44 pm PT
Review:  Story: First Ecounter Assault Recon, a secrect military squad within the government that was created 
 to protect the nation from paranomal threats to national security. You are the point man, and you 
 are going through hell.
  
  Overview: F. E. A. R is a decent game to say the least. The graphics and effects are top notch, and 
 I would say transferred to consoie pretty well. Most of the action in the game is fast and messy. 
 And, alot of the time quite scary. My only real issue with the game, and an issue I know alot of 
 people had, is the fact that the game is to damn dark. I mean sure, alot of the game takes place 
 outside, or in destroyed buildings, but if you can't see an enemy until it is right in front of 
 your face, that is to damn dark.
  
  Weaponry was also a problem. As far as I am concerned the particle cannons and rockets launchers 
 that are used in mulitplayer are cop outs, cheat weapons.
  
  Meh, you know what, the game was fun. But I don't feel like going in depth into this stuff. I'm 
 tired and people hate my reviews anyway. I highly suggest purchasing this game, but only if you 
 know people to play it online with. Because the 10 hour main game won't hold your attention for 
 long. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gbird991
Rating: 9
Date: May 6, 2007 6:24 pm PT
Review:  F. E. A. R. is great experience that isn't without its faults. The repetitive environments and less 
 than ideal online and multiplayer situations are a letdown, for sure. F. E. A. R. has made it from 
 the PC to 360 with everything that made it an outstanding experience along with a few new additions 
 including the fantastic Instant Action mode, making it hard to lodge any huge complaints against 
 the game. Those who have played F. E. A. R. on PC may not find enough of a reason to purchase the 
 game again as the added content is fairly limited. If you haven't yet seen why F. E. A. R. has attracted 
 so many fans, this port to the console is your chance to experience a truly scary game with some 
 great combat. Just don't say we didn't warn you when you are lying in bed too scared to find out 
 what is making that shadow on your ceiling. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: freebones
Rating: 8.8
Date: May 6, 2007 11:33 am PT
Review:  ok here we go, fear. first of all impressions from the name and the first few minutes of playing 
 the game is that fear can get pretty freakin scary. this is an important part of the game that 
 is because when your not fighting your getting scared ****less, but when you are fighting you don't 
 have to worry about it and can feel comfortable sitting back in your seat again. and fear does 
 a good job of balacing that. now to the fighting, i like the shooting system healing system and 
 the slo-mo feature is very usefull and is setup just right, now for the scare's, they can range 
 from are you kidding me? to holy **** but another thing i must quickly add is that then the sound 
 is off it's not that bad, this is because the sound plays an important role in scaring you, but 
 somtimes turning your sound down is not enough, next about fear, that you may've noticed in the 
 menus is that the sound is pretty creepy on its own. overall fear is a awesome game that will keep 
 you on the egde of your seat... literally. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: forsaken_elf
Rating: 8.1
Date: May 2, 2007 3:09 pm PT
Review:  F. E. AR
  First Encounter Assault Recon
  
  Now I am a big fan of shooter, they are one of my top game genres to play, but Im not a fan of 
 the spooky dark use a flashlight kind of games. I chose to get into F. E. A. R because my brother 
 played the game and told me it can be a real challenge facing the soldiers. So I let go of the 
 spooky flash light sections and dove into the game.
  
  You start off in F. E. A. R newcomer to the elite team. Youre sent in to investigate mysterious activity 
 and locate cause of it. The game starts off rather laid back and quiet as its eerie supernatural 
 nature pulls you in. They are many moments in the game where if our playing alone at night with 
 the lights off it can be creepy. Nothing can mess with your head more than creepy voices in your 
 head. Now in my opinion the best part of a shooter is the difficulty of the Artificial Intelligence. 
 This in my opinion is where F. E. A. R shines. The AI in this game is very team oriented and strategically. 
 Enemy units listen out for your sounds and not only respond to them but get on there radio and 
 warn other units before proceeding to search for you. Once spotted they immediately shout out on 
 the radio your position and start tactical positions. I have heard one unit tell another I need 
 suppression fire then the other guys lay fire on me while the other unit flanks me. Ive had units 
 vanish on me and when I go looking for them they have swung around and open fire on me from a new 
 position. If you throw a grenade they scream out in alarm and dive for the nearest cover. The game 
 definitely has a nice array of artillery to use ranging from single fire pistols &amp; shotguns 
 to Rapid fire assault rifles. Now many games have used the slow motion or bullet time affect 
 before. F. E. A. R is no different in its use of such an affect. You get to enter this mode where 
 you heightened senses and your reflexes give you an edge over your enemy. As you enter this mode 
 the world turns gray and time itself slows down as your reflexes kick into over drive. In this 
 mode you can see bullets fly one at a time come at you or for you. I use this only when there are 
 far too many units positioned and have secured and area. Its a good to use to drop a few enemies 
 and get breathing room from the barrage of bullets. Besides the tactical AI mind set this guys 
 are fully armored and are just as bad as SWAT team. Best bet is to unload what you can into precise 
 head shots, other wise youll be dumping a load in them before they drop. All and all I would recommend 
 this game to any fan of shooters looking for a good enemy skirmishes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DemolitionBoy27
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 30, 2007 7:01 pm PT
Review:  Good: Smart AI, fantastic atmosphere, Ragdoll physics
  Bad: Story is hard to get into environments can get repetitive
  
  Imagine a game that combines 
 the shooting aspect of Half Life and the horror elements of the Grudge. Now imagine if the Grudge 
 were scary, and you have F. E. A. R.
  
  
  GAMEPLAY - 8
  The shooting is awesome, the best since Half-Life 2, the gunfights feel like real gunfights (I 
 know this because I've been in many myself) , and it blends the horror and action together perfectly. 
 It also has the best A. I. I've ever seen. Instead of following you into a room after you run away, 
 they'll sit there as long as you do and wait for you to come out, well some of them will. The game 
 also has great (I hate to use this term) jump out of your seat moments. Sometimes it just likes 
 to mess with you (EX: Your HUD flickers every time a ghost is in the area, sometimes something 
 happens, othertimes nothing does) by knocking over random things. GRAPHICS - 8
  The graphics are good, but they still look like a high end PC game, not a 360 game. The physics 
 look very realistic, especially when your blowing somebody's limbs of with a shotgun.
  
  SOUND - 10
  The sound is amazing, from the soldiers telling each other to Shut the f*ck up! to 
 objects falling to dead silence. The sound adds to the overall experience of the game.
  
  VALUE - 8
  The game is long, not super long, but long enough. This game also has one of the best 
 endings I have ever seen. The Multiplayer modes are fun, but can get laggy around 8 people. After 
 you beat the game you can play a bonus mission, play instant action mode, or multiplayer.
  
  TILT- 10
  There's no other game like this out there, it is a one of a kind game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fmobliv06
Rating: 8.9
Date: Apr 28, 2007 6:43 pm PT
Review:  At its heart FEAR is a shooter, not a horror game. Don't get me wrong; the game has enough scary 
 parts to make the unprepared gamer squirm, but the real meat and potatoes of FEAR is its fantastic 
 firefights. The enemies in the game are extremely intelligent and boast some of the best AI ever 
 to be featured in a shooter. Enemies will break through windows, jump over obstacles, flank you, 
 and generally freak you out with their advanced tactics. The first time I heard an enemy call to 
 his comrades, I see a flashlight. Check it out, I must have freaked out just as much as I did when 
 the walls started dripping blood and creepy little girls started walking on the ceiling. Enemy 
 AI wouldn't mean anything if the gameplay wasn't solid, but luckily in the case of FEAR the gameplay 
 more than holds up. Aiming is tight and controls are smartly mapped. I especially like the Y button's 
 function, which lets you hold multiple medical packs to heal yourself with. The lean function, 
 mapped to left and right on the D-Pad, is helpful but does not reach its full potential, as it 
 can be hard to find that sweet spot where you can see an enemy around the corner but he can't see 
 you. FEAR 360 brings some of the best graphics that the PC has to offer over to consoles with great 
 results. Environments all look very good, as do enemies, although both could eventually get repetitive 
 for some. Of course this game isn't Gears graphically, but it's still quite good. Also, as a side 
 note, in case you aren't aware yet, ragdoll physics + shotguns always equals fun. The sound in 
 FEAR is pretty much perfect. The music isn't really the best I've ever heard, although it does 
 get the adrenaline pumping that much more during battle. No, the real strong point of FEAR's audio 
 is the sound effects. Guns always sound like they pack a punch, from the pistol to the shotgun 
 to the more exotic weapons. Also, when you run into an object in the environment there will always 
 be a unique sound effect for it. It doesn't seem like much at first, but if you're in the middle 
 of a scary section, with shadows playing off of the walls, and you run into a squeaky chair or 
 knock over a few cans behind you, you WILL freak out. All of the voiceovers are par for the course 
 and Alma's giggling is suitably creepy. Once the main game has been finished there are online and 
 instant action modes to keep one busy. Online is the biggest draw here. Fast paced and frantic, 
 online is almost always fun. There are a few problems with it though. Most noteably is the lack 
 of players. I've never had trouble finding a game, but I've also never seen more than two or three 
 games available in any of the game's online modes. Also a problem with the online mode is freezing. 
 I'm not sure if anybody else has had this problem, but my game has frozen online twice and I'm 
 about positive that it wasn't my 360's fault because it couldn't have overheated and the game ran 
 fine after restarting the system. The instant action mode seems like it would be fun for a little 
 while, but ultimately not as rewarding as the other two main modes. In conclusion, FEAR is one 
 heck of a thrill ride, with intense shootouts and a few scary as heck moments sprinkled in for 
 good measure. Highly recommended. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shadowfire14
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 28, 2007 12:00 pm PT
Review:  F. E. A. R. This truly is a title that lives up to its name because the name is what you be feeling 
 as you progress in the game. It starts off at a slow pace and teaches you how things are done and 
 how to generally play the game, without being a full on tutorial. You learn the basics such as 
 how to shoot, and engage in combat, basically like your usual FPS. This slow pace, however, is 
 a build up to later levels of the game itself. As you go farther, you learn more of your mysterious 
 past and your connection to the facility and city. I won't go into detail because the ending sequence 
 is to good to give away.
  
  Also, like is the case with most FPS's, as you get further, the enemies grow in number as well 
 as in difficulty. You may find yourself kicking butt in the first level, only to find that the 
 enemies have become suddenly smarter and more cunning, making it harder to stay alive. The slow-mo 
 is definitely going to be your best friend for most of the game. You'll seriously just have to 
 play it to really get the full extent of what I'm talking about. The multi-player really doesn't 
 add anything to the game in its entirety, it more or less gives you a chance to show off your skills 
 that you've acquired in the single-player campaign and get a few more achievements. If your simply 
 in it for the multi-play, I suggest renting it first as a fail-safe, then buying it if you really 
 like it, but first, please try out the Campaign, because that is where the bulk of the game is 
 at.
  
  Overall, the ending sequence was worth the frustration, due to the awe inspiring visuals and interactive 
 cut-scenes that you witness. Just from one hard core gamer to the rest, this game is worth the 
 epic immersive campaign, and the relatively honest multi-play mode. This gets my thumbs-up, what 
 about yours? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RabbidDawg
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 26, 2007 3:13 am PT
Review:  You are part of a military force that handles physical as well as supernatural threats to the world. 
 Your team investigates a incident and you get more than you bargain for... Think the Ring, meets 
 Doom on steroids, acid, and crack!
  
  Graphics: Even for being a bit out dated the visuals are still nice and clean with crisp textures, 
 lighting to die for, and an atmosphere so thick you could cut it with a knife. From the swaying 
 over head lights, to the way the environment gets torn up from all the shooting the visuals really 
 take a life of there own and while maybe not completely up to todays standards the thickness of 
 everything makes it feel like you are really there.
  
  The blood splattering and the enemies fliying apart from shotgun blast are really nice touches 
 to. The particle and dust effects are absolutely awesome and are what fuel the atmosphere. Visually 
 its just awesome, and definitely immerses you in the creepy gameplay.
  
  Gameplay: As said previously this game is full of thick heavy atmosphere almost so thick it feels 
 like you actually have to take a heavy breath to make sure you can still breath. The controls are 
 great, the AI is incredible, awesome physics, great online play, I fail to Really see anything 
 wrong with this game. Even the single player story is awesome and super creepy if not a bit short 
 though. That little girl is just uber creepy and really adds to the experience when she appears 
 out of no were or in a super creepy in game cut scene.
  
  I could go on all day about the gameplay, its just near perfect. As Ive said before I don't delve 
 much into story so its worth it for you to look at GS's review as well, I just give a brief summary 
 of my experience with the game.
  
  Sound: Perfect. From the guns to the enemies, to the bullets ricocheting, its simply perfect, sound 
 wise.
  
  Value: This game just rocks in the value department. While the Single player may be a touch short, 
 its definitely worth a few times through and multiplayer is great, fast and fun. Controls are tight. 
 This game just has a lot of fun factor and creepiness that shouldn't be missed 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JoeTonks
Rating: 6.9
Date: Apr 25, 2007 2:20 am PT
Review:  I'm sorry to say F. E. A. R is not the game I was expecting. I was hyped about it ever since it's 
 PC release, but only now, a couple of years after, was I able to play the game as it was intended. 
 It's not so much that the game does anything wrong... more that it doesn't do enough right. After 
 the initial few stealthy killings and the odd thrill at the abruptness of battle, the game has 
 offered more or less everything it has. There's the contrived inclusion of slow-mo which does help 
 during the trickier sections, but its a gimmick at best. There's the horror element of course, 
 although this is never really integral to the gameplay. The final chapter has you fighting some 
 enemies that aren't soldiers, but otherwise its wave after wave of clones with the odd robot thrown 
 in. This isn't always a bad thing... the enemy AI is a joy (or a nightmare) to behold, but in harder 
 sections this isn't necessarily a good thing.
  
  Where the horror comes in, it comes in thick though. The final chapter is hellish, and throughout 
 the game you'll be dreading the return of the evil little girl and the nightmarish scenarios that 
 her presence signifies. A good story isn't enough to warrant the pricetag though - neither is the 
 short length, despite the inclusion of an extra chapter.
  
  If you find the PC game cheap go for it, but other than the visuals which still stand up (especially 
 with revised lighting and fixed glitches) , the xbox version offers nothing you can't find somewhere 
 else. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sZZZlepy_101
Rating: 7.8
Date: Apr 24, 2007 6:57 am PT
Review:  Pros
  1. Suprisingly awsome job on bringing a graphically demanding PC game of the year as a port to 
 the 360.
  2. blasting your machine gun creating smokes, sparks and bullet holes never gets old 3. sound effects 
 especially using 5.1 sound immerses you into the game plays experiance. 4. Awsome visuals to remeber 
 especially the great use of lightning and shadows.
  5. Killer AI with alota F*** words
  
  Cons
  1. Not much to see if youve played the pc version aside from the bonus mission and instant 
 action. 2. new contents such as instant action and the bonus mission is uninteresting
  3. The controls takes quite a while to get use to 4. been there done that multiplayer mode
  5. 
 even with all the visuals the game still feels linnear 6. story is quite hard to make sense of 
 until youve played the enitire game.
  7. Short game play Bottom line
  if you are an xbox gamer or someone who dosent own a decent computer to handle such visual demands 
 you wont regret checking this version of FEAR out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bartiemuss
Rating: 9.8
Date: Apr 19, 2007 9:37 pm PT
Review:  The good: fast intense, firefights, brilliant AI awesome graphics, and great single player campaign.
 
  The bad: online servers have lag issues Fear is a great FPS you play as a piontman in a unit called 
 First Encounter Assault reccon (Fear) in the campaign you ll be fighting clone solders but dont 
 mistake this for them being stupid the AI is incredible advance they will try and flank you seek 
 cover rush you anything a normal human would do. The one bad thing about the game is the online 
 play can be quite laggy at times but most if the time is good 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NAPK1NS
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 18, 2007 1:28 pm PT
Review:  Monolith is has been under the carpet with their games. They disappear into their offices, and 
 every few years, pull out a gem. F. E. A. R. is their latest work of art, and although it is far off 
 from being perfect, you wont be disappointed. It combines first-person shooter craziness with 
 martial arts moves, and plenty of explosive action.
  
  F. E. A. R. stands for First Encounter Assault Recon. They are a group of paranormal believers that 
 have organized a sort of SWAT team to rush in and investigate odd happenings and occurrences; you 
 are a part of this group. Word is out that a man named Paxton Fettel has gone insane, and taken 
 control of a plethora of super-solider clones, and has put a whole office complex into lockdown. 
 Video feeds coming from the building also suggest that Paxton has a sweet toothfor other humans. 
 The F. E. A. R. team catches wind of the crisis, and they decide to send you in. The fear story line 
 is a bit far-fetched, and a little on the ludicrous side. However, through out the course of the 
 game you find that it is actually really quite good, and keeps the action moving. The games story 
 line is told through radio calls, text readouts, and annoying phone messages. You could say that 
 it isnt the most engaging way to tell its story, but functional. However, there are confusing, 
 but intriguing mid-level story sequences that often creepy, and intimidating. Very well done, and 
 spoilers would poison the greatness of them. F. E. A. R. ends with an excellent twist ending that 
 ties up all the confusing hallucinations of the creepy little girl named Alma, and leaves you satisfied.
 
  
  Once you hit the ground, F. E. A. R. is a terrifying roller coater ride that you are sure to enjoy. 
 Not only is the game fun to play, but also it plays well. At your disposal there are combat shotguns, 
 the standard handgun, and assault rifle. Then things get more intrusting with plasma guns that 
 turn foes into charred skeletons, and a repeating weapon that fires metal steaks. You can use this 
 to pin your enemies to the wall, and watch the excellent Havok physics take their course. After 
 you fire off all your rounds, you can also pull off an array of kicks, which feel harder to execute 
 then they should.
  
  Next to all the stellar weapons in the game, there is still the coolest feature of all: Slow-mo. 
 Thanks to your abnormal speed, you are able to maneuver around your foes at lightning speeds. The 
 game displays this effect as everything moving slowly. With the touch of a button, everything slows 
 to a grind, and all of the games details come out. Bullets fly past your head, and the fiery explosions 
 look incredible. Playing the game with the slow-mo on is a visual treat. The game also makes this 
 feature available to you at all times, and really makes F. E. A. R. one of a kind.
  
  F. E. A. R is a shockingly challenging game. This is not because the enemys guns are unbalanced, 
 but that the AI is unmatched. This is single handedly the best AI ever seen in a shooter. They 
 communicate, they flank, and they really have a sense for the environment. Your will see the soldiers 
 jump over obstacles, dive through glass, take cover, crawl under low hanging objects, and the list 
 goes on. The unpredictable enemies will keep you on your toes start to finish. Unfortunately, there 
 arent really that many types of enemies throughout F. E. A. R.. You will basically fight the clone 
 soldiers the whole way through, with the exception of a few surprises. This never really becomes 
 a problem though, and the game stays fun all the way through. This is really only a testament to 
 how good the F. E. A. R. AI really is.
  
  From a technical stand point, F. E. A. R. is pretty impressive also. Since almost the whole game takes 
 place in a massive office complex, the graphics never really have their chance to shine like they 
 deserve. You will see the same textures ten times over, and they same grey color pallet begins 
 to grind on the nerves when it comes time for the final act. However, when you put the game into 
 slow-mo, and begin to take down some soldiers, things really start to look good. The smoke and 
 bullets and blood all look amazing when slowed down. Seeing an enemys torso fly through the open 
 air, blood flying in slow-mo is your visual queue to be a better person. It is awesome stuff.
 
  
  F. E. A. R. has a big focus on top-notch particle effects. Whenever you simply shoot a wall, the concrete 
 will bust out, and dust will fly everywhere. Shoot out a box, and watch as the box and its contents 
 go flying every which way. The game looks amazing when huge firefight break out, because rouge 
 bullets will hit these walls and these boxes, and it only makes the gunfights that much more exciting. 
 Again, I just want to emphasize how good all of this looks slowed down. Very impressive.
  
  The audio heard in F. E. A. R. is also outstanding. If you have the benefit of a 5.1 surround sound 
 speaker set-up, then prepare for joy. All of the guns in F. E. A. R. sound just right, and make them 
 that much more satisfying to use. There is even a delightful sound distortion when entering and 
 exiting slow-mo. Part of what makes F. E. A. R. so intense is its outstanding sound effects.
  
  F. E. A. R. also has a full on multiplayer component that while not slapped on, wont take up 
 much of your time upon the completion of the single player. What you have here are the standard 
 deathmatch modes, CTF modes, and some throwaway elimination modes. You can also find a fistful 
 of well-designed maps to duke it out on. Taking F. E. A. R. online is pretty insane, you will have 
 30 kills minimum at the end of each deathmatch game, and the action is non-stop. Monolith was also 
 smart enough to add the awesome slow-mo feature in the online component. However, it doesnt work 
 the same way as in the single player. It acts as a pick-up item that basically slows down the other 
 team. This can be downright deadly in tight CTF matches, and very satisfying.
  
  F. EA. R. is a scary, intense, and overall enjoyable experience. With action from the matrix, and 
 scares from the Ring, it is a satisfying, bloody romp that any shooter fan will love. It takes 
 what is fun about this genre, and puts a unique twist on it. A very enjoyable game, check it out. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sadikovic
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 7, 2007 10:27 am PT
Review:  ... F. E. A. R is a game that personaly as a FPS fan hits all the right spots and then some.
  
  Graphics:
  The game is great to look at and was a benchmark for gaming systems so its graphicly 
 and techniqly great. Character models and the envrinmets are equaly as realistic.
  
  Sound:
  The guns all sound unique and powerfull in the own rights, the sound tends to get atmospheric 
 when needed and these times are the reason why its named FEAR but i will leave details out since 
 it will spoil the great parts of the game.
  
  Gameplay:
  without gameplay a FPS is nothing more than a exploration game or an interactive video. F. E. A. R 
 personaly gets every aspect right from the map layouts and design to the enemy AI the guns and 
 the slow mo gives the game the extra umph to push it to the top of FPS charts. FEAR realy shouldnt 
 be missed out on and definetly should be baught by all gunwielding 360 owners, and im really disapointed 
 by its review by gamespot it deserves the PC score, because the year gap hasnt damaged it at all. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheNIM
Rating: 7.7
Date: Apr 15, 2007 1:04 pm PT
Review:  While I waited quite a long time to play this game, it was worth it. While it won't ever be considered 
 a classic, FEAR is a decent shooter. The storyline has been done before but that doesn't take away 
 from the good parts of this game. They added a lot of thriller movie elements to the game that 
 I would compare to Carrie or Silent Hill. If you liked being creeped out, play this game in the 
 dark. Especially if you have HD and surround sound.
  
  Gameplay: 8
  
  Pretty cut and dry, nothing groundbreaking here. Typical FPS elements with the usage of analog 
 sticks and the trigger. Would be better served if there was a way to take cover especially when 
 you lose your energy so fast. The game is very reactive to the controls but almost to a fault as 
 it times the camera can fling all over the place. Despite the small nuances, this game still has 
 doable gameplay and is virtually glitch-free.
  
  Graphics: 8
  
  I would love to give this a 10 but after Gears of War and Oblivion I just can't bring myself to 
 do it. Nevertheless they are still great. Gruesome to a point due to certain graphic occurrences 
 you stumble upon i. e., dead guy in a chair and you can see brain matter spread on the wall. The 
 character models are good but there is hardly any facial animation and that detracts from the game. 
 The environments and effects are solid but bland at rare occasions. Aside from that the graphics 
 are pristine.
  
  Sound: 9
  
  The sound adds to the creepy element of the game. There is no corny action music or lame orchestra 
 style music playing during hectic situations. The in game sounds are sudden and incredible. The 
 can strike fear (no pun intended) into the hearts of the weak because you can tell by the music, 
 something crazy is about to happen but you don't know what and you don't know exactly when. Explosions, 
 gun shots and any other sound the represents destruction are typical, but incredible at the same 
 time. The sound is what stands out in this game. If you have a 5.1 theater system... play this 
 game.
  
  Value: 7
  
  I had fun playing this so I had to give it a good score. However, if it weren't for multiplayer, 
 this game would be repetitive and boring after the first 5 or 6 stages. The achievements can be 
 ridiculously unattainable for most and are geared away from single player campaign. Speaking of 
 campaign, I did say it was creepy and to me, that completely saved the replay value. Otherwise 
 the value shrinks probably close to in half. If you like online shooters, you'll play this a lot.
 
  
  Tilt: 7
  
  Decent game, but I feel like there are a few things missing that keep it from being incredible. 
 They could make the campaign mode a little less repetitive and have different stages in different 
 locations. I got tired of running through vents and tunnels after the first 3 stages so some variety 
 could help. I eventually lost interest a lot sooner than I thought I would. It's a good game that 
 could be a whole lot better with some tweaking.
  
  -TheNIM 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mike_Louch
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 8, 2007 1:10 pm PT
Review:  This game messes with ur mind lol. People ask if this game is scary or not, well to me this game 
 is more of a strain mentally than anythin. Total different from the RE kind of scary, when somethin 
 just pops at u and attacks u. This is more like messin with ur head scary, like lights randomly 
 turnin off, elevator doors closing, objects droppin, oh yeah and a little creepy girl that can 
 end u like its nothin lol. Still a great game, but at times this game can really mess with ur head. 
 If u can deal with that, plus little crappy girls, this is the game for u. Not even to mention 
 the action that this game possesses. I would highly suggest people to get this game and add it 
 to their 360 collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Torgue21
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 4, 2007 9:56 pm PT
Review:  F. E. A. R. on the PC is a fantastic game and is just fun to play. However on the Xbox360 a few problems 
 arise that separate it from it's PC counterpart. The controls are kind of off in way that is subtle 
 but apparent enough to take away from the game play. Anyone who has played this on the PC will 
 know the difference. The game is rather difficult from anything higher than the easy difficulty 
 and the multi player is frustrating for those not used to people running around at 90 miles an 
 hour.
  Other than that this is still a great game and a must buy for those who have bad computers and 
 would otherwise not be able to run this game smoothly on their computers. The core of the game 
 play is the ability to stop and start slow-motion at any time during the game. You can use to get 
 an advantage on your enemies who can easily outflank you and gun you down on the normal speed time. 
 The graphics are also amazing which makes the game all the more better when you can see grenade 
 ripples and exploding body parts in slow motion.
  The enemy AI is some of the most intelligent to date. They will outflank you and work as a team. 
 This game would be almost impossible to beat if you could not use S. M. to gain the advantage on 
 them. They react to your movements and you will never fight the same battle twice. The game is 
 rather long but nothing that you should not be able to beat in around 6-8 hours. It is not really 
 scary expect for a few parts where things jump out at you.
  The multi player is the weakest part of this game. People run around at lightning speeds which 
 makes it even harder given you have the funky controls which are slow and it takes many hits to 
 kill someone. You will need a great deal of skill and practice to get good at this game.
  There are also quick-missions for you to complete where you can get straight into a fight without 
 having to wade though the story.
  overall this is a fun game but is has it's drawbacks and if you could you should get it on the 
 PC instead. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SOADToTheMax
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 3, 2007 2:47 pm PT
Review:  F. E. A. R, Wow... Just to sum up how this game hit me, I just finished playing this bugger (Took a 
 decent 10 hours or so on moderate difficulty.) and I think this should definetly go down in my 
 personal top 10 favorite games.
  The intensity of gun battles, the actually engaging story which I did forget when getting into 
 more numerous-soldier gun fights, but when I remembered my objective it was What's gonna happen 
 next? Here's my F. E. A. R review.
  
  Story: F. E. A. R, First Encounter Assault and Recon. You're squad deals with the strange and rather 
 odd situations a normal Recon team couldn't handle, And you as your character are indeed an odd 
 spectacle. Your physical performance is off the charts and you can become so in tune with a combat 
 situation that your reflexes cause everything to slow down and give you quite an advantage. But 
 an Aerospace Compound is destroyed and you are sent to eliminate the threat and find out where 
 a mysterious signal is located and control the whole situation before things get out of control. 
 And you in the whole process reveal a devstating fact about your past. All-In-All: A rather intelligent 
 story for a FPS.
  
  Graphics: The guns felt small in my hands, That's my only complaint. Now for the good stuff. Your 
 standard enemy is a clone soldier made from DNA and blah-blah... Armored and prepared with whatever 
 weaponry. There's some More heavily armored clones with Needle shooting guns, and then the HUGE 
 mechs with rockets. Also another design for your clones, maybe besides that difference they can 
 take a slightly harder beating. And besides some floating bots and machine guns on walls and flying 
 ghosts, You got standard ATL security. Not too much but enough for me to last this game. Their 
 designs weren't off the wall but it was realistic. The weaponry had it's own visual treat for the 
 enviroment that it tears up and enemies as well. God bless Havok physics engine. (Seriously, That 
 team rocks.) But bullet scarred walls, blasted over debree and shattered windows provided a destructive 
 enviroment that just made me happy. The setting felt the same but you are in an office building 
 for a majority of the time and then a another facility so I didn't care. All-In-All: Gorgeous visuals 
 and Destructiveness.
  
  Sound: Some good fun to be heard right here. Each gun from its sound had its own feel. Shotguns 
 were slow but tremendously powerful, Submachine guns pattered violently up and down an enemy giving 
 it a slick and well around feel, The rockets always packed an explosive punch, and pistols were 
 wimpy like they should be but provided enough defense as a last resort weapon. Enemy chatter, though 
 serious, is hilarious when a team of clones are wiped out except for one and he attempts to flee 
 saying in his intercom, We're gonna need back-u---!!! And then his life his ended as his lower 
 half seperates from a shotgun shell to the gut. Honestly I've never heard better gun to flesh sound 
 effecys before. High-quality. And along with eerie atmospheric music and tense gun battle music, 
 It all played out sweet and tasty. All-in-all: Some of the best sounds since... Anything really.
 
  
  Violence: Rated M for a reason. Everything from Pre-set dead bodies to scare you and ones ripped 
 up from your wrath, It was all extremely satisfying. Arms blown off, legs torn from their joints 
 and flinging over a chair, aswell as upper halves of bodies hopping up another foot from their 
 lower half and circling down to the ground to continue their blood sprayingness, It's all so sweet. 
 Tee-hee. All-in-all: Particle Gun man, Come on. Freaking Insane!
  
  ALL-IN-ALL: I rented and want more, It's a definte buy for the likes of a violence and scary game 
 lover like myself. Online can be quick paced and a blast but more people play gears and AC4 than 
 anything lately. So a few matches are on every once n awhile. F. E. A. R has its moments and the moments 
 are the game itself man, 'Nuff said. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -Canas-
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 2, 2007 1:29 pm PT
Review:  Amidst all the fuss about Gears of War , F. E. A. R. flew in completely under the radar. When I ask 
 people online and offline whether or not they've picked up F. E. A. R. for their Xbox 360, the usual 
 reaction is What? . Very few people seemed to even notice this game was released, and very few 
 seemed to care. Gears came out weeks later and F. E. A. R. disappeared into the shadows of obscurity, 
 perhaps an appropriate place for a game where you spend most of your time in the dark.
  
  I myself wasn't too excited about GoW to the point of having wet dreams, as I couldn't wait for 
 this game's release instead. I picked up a copy on it's launch date, (no scarcity at Best Buy) 
 and waited until it was dark to start it up. Coming fresh of finally rented Condemned, I was already 
 deep in the survival/horror mood, and as an avid FPS and TPS player I knew this game may be the 
 perfect cross between the two genres I loved. Sure enough, it was amazing. The atmosphere was horrifying, 
 and although I was skeptical about the overdone scary little girl cliche, F. E. A. R. managed to pull 
 it off without it feeling recycled at all. The graphics were a tad outdated, but the addition of 
 real-life physics still gave it the next-gen feel. There was no shortage of gore, either, as my 
 first experience with grenades was terrifyingly memorable. Organs littered the walls only seconds 
 after I heard the shrill scream of the Replica soldier. A nice adition to the game was the bullet-time 
 , first used years ago in the game Max Payne. Although this idea has also been overused in the 
 past, the slow-mo mode added an even more sinister feel to the gameplay, and the graphics were 
 accelerated to the point of stunning. A very noticeable aspect of the game was the brilliant AI. 
 The Replica soldiers used better tactics and better communication than most of the actual PEOPLE 
 I played online with. Throughout the entire single-player game, (if you've got surround sound and 
 all the lights off) , you'll surely be biting your nails.
  
  The multiplayer is sometimes fairly tedious to get set up, but brilliant when it's used properly. 
 I myself sat atop the leaderboards in team deathmatch for two months, yet to lose a match out of 
 the hundred or so played. Although my interest in the online play faded months ago, it was addictive 
 while it lasted.
  
  The game had a few drawbacks that could've unfortunately been fixed before the 360 release. The 
 lack of a dramatic death scene took away from the suspense, as you could simply jump back into 
 play seconds later. Also, the storyline felt a tad tired at times, especially when you appeared 
 to be getting some back up from other agents only to have them killed off seconds later. Perhaps 
 this was done on purpose to create the alone atmosphere, but you could've help but feel a little 
 distressed when they didn't even bother to help you. Despite single-handedly bring down Fettel 
 and the Replicas, you practically got no recognition. The little recognition you did get seemed 
 to be from the enemy, as later in the game they often cowered in Fear once they heard (or saw) 
 you coming. I-I can't see him! or He's here!! were frequent comments heard from your unfortunate 
 enemies. F. E. A. R. could've added a tad more freaky moments as well, in order to elevate your fright. 
 Some call the BOO tactics poor, and are critical of the game, Yet I still felt genuinely frightened 
 by some of the more subtle aspects. Others even mention that the game is too hallway-to-hallway 
 oriented, and that Condemned was far better in this aspect. But comparing the games in terms of 
 gameplay would just be foolish, as Condemned was terribly bland and repetitive with it's tazer 
 .
  
  In short, this is one of the most brilliant and intense games i've ever played. The replay value 
 isn't as high considering you may remember where all the scares are, but months down the road the 
 game is just as intense as it was when I first played. I recommend this F. E. A. R. for any fan of 
 the horror genre, and any avid FPS player. Assuming you have the gravtias to handle it... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BustaSag
Rating: 8.6
Date: Apr 2, 2007 8:42 am PT
Review:  Actually this game reminds me of two PS2 games I've played. Black &amp; The Suffering were missing 
 what FEAR has to offer. The weapons &amp; graphics reminded me of Black &amp; the paranormal, creepy, 
 bloody effects reminded me of The Suffering. I wouldn't say this game is basic as much as it is 
 frustrating. The multiplayer isn't that bad. But if you were interested in buying this game, I'd 
 definitely rent it first. The only thing I wanted this game to have is more gory details on the 
 head-shots &amp; blown off limbs, then I think it would have been more amusing &amp; addictive. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: trakfreak18
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 1, 2007 9:19 pm PT
Review:  This game really puts you into the Japanese horror genre for sure. If this game had a comparison 
 to a movie it would be Pulse in my eyes. The soundtrack for this game is great. The graphics of 
 course could use a little bit of work. but for the gameplay its great. it takes a little getting 
 used to at first but once you pick up you just run with it. i usually dont start out playing games 
 on the normal setting but i did on this game and it was a lot easier than expected. the demo from 
 the xbox 360 marketplace is nothing like the actual game though. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bladecutter56
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 1, 2007 2:22 pm PT
Review:  Ah, yes. F. E. A. R. The game where developers can take a little 5 year old ghost and turn her into 
 such an evil entity that she would burn people alive, right down to the bone. Yes, this game is 
 good. How good? Well, in order to scare you the game uses some cheap parlor tricks, but they would 
 work. For example, while your walking down the hallway, you suddenly get a flashback and a dead 
 person's face pops up on your screen. Then, the roof becomes flooded with blood that is somehow 
 hovering there. You see bloody footprints leading to a door, and when you get to that door, BOOM! 
 Then you turn around and get a nice surprise...
  
  Now, this game is in no way perfect, but it has great potential. If the creators put their minds 
 to it, they could create one of the scariest games imaginable. The sound effects are astounding. 
 The ambient sounds are creepy, sometimes giving you the feeling of being watched or maybe you hear 
 footprints or a girl giggling. Or while your in a firefight, the guns blazing and explosions everywhere. 
 The graphics are decent for a port from the original Xbox, though it is a pity they couldn't improve 
 upon it. Almost all the enemies look the same, but hey, they are clones. You get a handy little 
 slow motion feature that is so much fun to use, especially with a shotgun. You shoot them right 
 and they could explode, get beheaded, split in half, etc. etc. etc. Nothing more fun than watching 
 THAT happen, right? There's a wide range of weapons, from the basic pistol to a rocket launcher 
 to a weapon that will just devastate anything it touches. You can shoot barrels, breaker boxes 
 and pipes to create explosions to kill enemies and use the environment to your advantage. The AI 
 can do this too, along with doing maneuvers that you won't be able to, like flipping over a damn 
 railing or knocking down something to hide behind.
  
  Overall, this game is very fun. Its definitely worth a buy, though people don't really play it 
 online anymore so most of those achievements are unattainable unless you play it for a long time. 
 It has it's creepy moments, sometimes doing things you won't expect, like tossing bodies through 
 windows straight into your face. The cheap scares will eventually get old, though, as they get 
 more predictable. However, the scariest parts of the game are the long, drawn-out walks through 
 areas where you just EXPECT something to happen, yet nothing does. Not even a gunfight... Then 
 when you drop your guard, something happens, scares you, and then you move on. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SwordsmanBeta10
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 30, 2007 6:11 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay - 10/10 Amazing in the gameplay department. The enemies are extremely smart and use all 
 forms of cover. Slo-Mo effects add really good gunfights. Slo-Mo is a necessity to beat the game.
 
  
  Graphics - 10/10 The game looks really good. An HD-TV Makes everything look even better. Sparks 
 fly and bullet casings fall to the ground. The gunfights look very good and seems very realistic.
 
  
  Sound - 9/10 Sound is really good also. You hear everything. Soldiers communicating, strange sounds, 
 and bullets impact everything in life like sound.
  
  Story - 7/10 Not much to it. You really only understand if you listen to phone messages and read 
 laptops. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: burger33
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 30, 2007 11:37 am PT
Review:  enjoyed it thoroughly. lighting plays a major role the first time through and makes you plan out 
 your attack more so than any other fps. the sounds in the game have the ability to make your skin 
 crawl especially if you are fortunate to be playing with a surround sound system setup. the weapons 
 are enjoyable, but like most fps's there is a noticeable advantage to hanging onto the shotgun. 
 shotgun is a must to have in the later levels and its good to see that with FEAR that they set 
 up the difficulty as the game proceeds. the increase in difficulty is right on pace with you, the 
 player's, own aptitude for playing the game. allows you to learn as you go without referencing 
 the manual continuously. no noticeable glitches or blips in the game, game runs very smooth. seems 
 harder to aim in this game than that of halo and gears, by harder i mean touchy, takes some time 
 to master. only complaints were that you cannot hug corners and other objects as in Gears as well 
 as harder to find ammo for some of the more fun weapons in the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: flavort
Rating: 9.7
Date: Aug 13, 2007 1:25 pm PT
Review:  Now I have been waiting for this game to come out on the 360. So the first day on the shelf it 
 was mine. I was prepared for a scary shooter game, but I was let down. The scare factor is just 
 not there. The game itself is good though. The slow mo feature is very useful especially on a difficult 
 setting. The AI in this game is very nice all games should take note on that. The game stages are 
 not that exciting at all. I was so so pleased with this game. So rent it first. I was hoping for 
 a real creepy wild action shooter and it was not that at all. I would say it was a monotone game 
 with great, and I mean great AI. Wanna be scary but worth the play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thermalcold
Rating: 8.3
Date: Mar 24, 2007 5:15 am PT
Review:  Being a lover of all games scary and shoot em' ups, I thought that I would really enjoy this game, 
 to which I did-alot! It is a really cool game, it has a spooky little girl in the game who comes 
 out of nowhere at least once every level. And when she does appear, she does so in a manner that'll 
 have your spine tingling in glorious horror that you'll think that the tingling will break your 
 back. Also, there is this other mind bending apparition that also appears occasionally that is 
 quite freaky the way he forwards the story along, to whick I liked also. There are plenty of explosive 
 barrels to shoot, computers to destroy, and lots of broken glass to spread about as well, if your 
 into that type of thing, I like to do. The graphics on this game are gorgeous, fluid, well done. 
 There a few other things I could add, but needless to say, I would just suggest playing the game 
 yourself, to find out!
  While this game has plenty of positives, there are a few things I would like to say about its negatives. 
 First of all, while the games gives you plenty of creeps to shudder at, the storytelling could 
 you a little work. Most of the game is told through messages left on laptops and answering phones 
 in the buildings you wander around in. While this might be believable in a single building, I could 
 not feign beleiveability when I go to multiple locales and hear the same people tell the story, 
 while very few people NPC's did little. I would think that you would get most of your information 
 thru NPC's and little from phones, headsets, and laptops, and I am sure it is quicker and cheaper 
 to do it that way than programming a human character, I just think that would be the norm, is all. 
 Doom was my first fps, so forgive me if I compare games of this genre to Doom, but it seemed there 
 was more to do in doom than in this game, and they both are corridor shooters, albeit FEAR being 
 the better looking one nowadays. I can't complain about there not being enough to shoot, but it 
 seems thats all I did. Couldn't I go and solve a puzzle or two, throw a rope up a building to sneak 
 inside, or have more than one way to enter? A little platforming? A little more differant locales 
 to go to other than warehouses and offices, like outdoor areas or a differant country? Or have 
 secret areas like doom that rewarded you for looking really big guns, armour, or invisibility? 
 Anything to break up the shooting all the time?
  While this game is very well put together, has some good chills, looks good on your tv, and reminds 
 you of the good ol' days of corridor shooters, its lack of monotony breaking distractions and story 
 telling delivery had me pause to think which broke me out of my focus of shooting and reminded 
 me I was playing a game instead of being totally immersed in my surroundings. None of which is 
 a reason not too enjoy the game, as this game was readied for the 360's launch, its a really good 
 excellant shooter to do some serious time killing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tda503
Rating: 8.7
Date: Mar 23, 2007 11:20 pm PT
Review:  so, i have played this game for about 12 hours now. I think its pretty good, it has live also, 
 which is also fun. I would say that the story is so so, im about done with the game, but its basically 
 your just doing one thing after the next, and the story isnt that good. besides the random scary 
 things, i think doom 3 was alot better then this scary wise. The only real reason i would say its 
 worth buying is because live is fun, and it takes a while to get all the gamerpoints, im borrowing 
 it from my neighbor, but i have it for PC also. multiplayer is what pc is missing. but yes, its 
 basically live is what you want 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TTDog
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 23, 2007 5:06 am PT
Review:  More proof that Demo's can sell a game.
  i've never been a massive FPS fan, usually they involve nothing more than running around and shooting 
 everything that moves with little or no need for any thought other than kill, kill, kill.
  Here you're part of a team, granted the other members are all pretty irrelevant and only show up 
 at the end or start of a level, or where something is needed to move the plot on a little, but 
 you still feel part of a group.
  Granted you're the result of some experiment (not really a spoiler, its obvious from the first 
 level that you aren't 100% normal) and have the reflexes of a cat, excellent use of slowmo, but 
 that only adds to the experience.
  Occasionally the areas that you find yourself playing through look a little bland, but most office 
 blocks are, but the game really takes off with the sound effects.
  Normally I'll sit and lsiten to the readio or some music whilst playing but here the game relies 
 on the sound effects to raise the level of suspense as you'll hear the next wave of enemies further 
 down the corridor and your heart beat starts to race.
  Not as scary as its made out to be there are still moments to panic you, especially if, as I had 
 the misfortune once, you're creeping towards an enemy area, suspension rising, lights off at home 
 to create more atmosphere... and your cat jumps up just as you reach the corner and the start of 
 the action.
  This game only goes to prove that FPS's in general can all do with making the player think a little. 
 It does wonders for the experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: d3r7y
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 22, 2007 9:51 am PT
Review:  FEAR is probably one the best shooter's for the 360. It has three features that I as a gamer appreciate 
 in my games. 1. Great story- I love the idea that you are head of a special team to find out what 
 pharanormal activity is going on in some government cover-up. 2. Gameplay- Not since Halo 2 have 
 you gotten this type of gameplay, you can pretty much run'n'gun it through the whole game or you 
 can stealth it and take the more careful approach. 3. Real FEARful enviroments- You really get 
 some what scared playing this game. There are parts in the game where your searching the area for 
 enemies and the door down the hallway is cracked open. You get close enough that some dark figure 
 walks right passed it and the music jumps on. Next thing you know your jumping like a little girl 
 in a horror movie. And don't get me started with that friggn' girl in the game. Its like they took 
 her out of the movie The Ring or something. This game also has other qualities that catch your 
 eye, like the enviroments get so friggn' destroyed you would think that the game BLACK was a test 
 subject for the making of this game. I mean everything can be destroyed!! Defenite Buy!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: megjur
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 21, 2007 9:49 am PT
Review:  FEAR is an excellent first person shooter. The AI is very good and often challenging. The story 
 line is pretty good and the gameplay is excellent overall. There are a few glithcy moments but 
 nothing that interferes with the game too much. Graphics are great, sound is even better, The use 
 of lighting to intensify the creepy aspects of the game is superb. The weapons are excellent. They 
 have a good sound and feel and there is a wide variety to choose from. The ability to carry only 
 3 weapons at a time means you often have to make tactical decisions as to what weapons you anticipate 
 you'll need in upcoming battles. If I had any complaint it would be that I would like to have seen 
 more emphasis on the horror element of the game. I would have liked to have seen more paranormal 
 elements, especially in the middle portions of the game where the creepy aspects are pretty much 
 absent. The use of the slo-mo feature is done very well and adds alot to the gameplay. needless 
 to say, the ending cutscene makes you really want to play FEAR 2! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smerlus
Rating: 8.1
Date: Mar 21, 2007 7:39 am PT
Review:  I finished F. E. A. R. for 360 about 5 days ago but just never got around to writing a review for 
 it. Its a game I have mixed feelings for so I guess I was waiting until everything got sorted 
 in my head before I was either too harsh or too soft in summarizing my experience.
  
  Before I purchased F. E. A. R., I ran though one of Monoliths other games for the 360, Condemned. 
 Condemned is really an under rated game full of suspense, frights and a pretty good story, I was 
 expecting the same out of F. E. A. R. I have to admit that I was pretty disappointed when F. E. A. R. 
 turned out to have a story along the lines of The Ring with a military element added on, the environment 
 was hallway after hallway and most of the scares came off as cheap jump tactics.
  
  With those general complaints out of the way, I have to say that F. E. A. R. has pretty good graphics. 
 The game runs very smoothly, flashbacks cut in and out with no slowdown, slo-mo has the bullets 
 leaving trails like any top budget action movie, all around the game looks good. Lighting is done 
 exceptionally well and so are the particle effects. Theres not much I can say bad about the graphics 
 except, maybe the environment could use a bit more creativeness as the same textures are used throughout 
 the game.
  
  Once again this game displays the Havok physics engine logo and does a great job of utilizing it. 
 Bodies fall dead in most realistic poses, chunks and objects fly around like they actually have 
 weight. The only thing I didnt like is that the character felt like he ran almost friction-free 
 throughout the game and for some reason he even moved faster in water. This is strange because 
 in every other game where I played as a regular humanoid, the character was always slowed down 
 because of the nature of water.
  
  There was one instance of collision detection that went horribly wrong and ended up ruining the 
 game for me. It was pretty early in the game when an enemy soldier somehow was able to pass through 
 the floor of the map. That was cool with me until I noticed that this soldier now had the ability 
 to follow me through the whole map and take shots at me. Needless to say that ended up being a 
 glitch that made me restart my game. While that was only one instance, Ive read posts on the internet 
 that tell me Im not alone in having this happen.
  
  The AI was pretty amazing and I dont think I can say anything that hasnt been said before. The 
 tactics used always seemed to keep me on my toes and is a highlight of this game. While still not 
 human, the computer AI does have a lot of tricks up its sleeve and isnt afraid to use every last 
 one of them when the chips are down.
  
  The sound was spot on. Music added to the atmosphere, the voices and dialogue were all done as 
 well as they should have been and the sound effects were perfect. F. E. A. R. doesnt break new ground 
 in the sound department but then again it really doesnt need to.
  
  Now the story and atmosphere is what really got to me. Coming from Condemned, F. E. A. R. seems pretty 
 unoriginal. Fettel, the main adversary of the game just isnt scary looking. While seeming very 
 much in control of his body, he just doesnt have that fright factor like Hannibal Lecter does. 
 The little girl behind the scenes just comes off as a cheap cash in to me. It seems the little 
 girl that walks with her arms stiff to her side and has long black hair draped over her face is 
 the horror icon of the last five years or so. Add to that numerous cheesy flashbacks, voices coming 
 from no where and apparitions popping up, and you get the general scare factor of F. E. A. R. The 
 story is told pretty much through laptops and answering machines but never really surpasses predictable. 
 There are a few things I wouldnt have guessed in the story but the twists that did occur werent 
 really shocking revelations.
  
  With about a 6  8 hour single player in a very straight forward fashion, theres not much replay 
 value other than unlocking the achievements but most of them end up nickel and diming you because 
 the relative lack of points attached to the minor ones. Its quite easy to go through the game 
 and only getting less than a hundred points. To me F. E. A. R. was a misnomer, the game is simply 
 eerie, thats about it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Necko
Rating: 8.4
Date: Mar 20, 2007 2:52 pm PT
Review:  Alright we'l go right down the line, gameplay is really good. Highlights are; good weapons, ability 
 to duel wield and throw grenades, nice little lean around the corner ability, and relatively smart 
 opponents. Also very creepy atmosphere that will gnaw away at your state of mind the whole time. 
 Graphics are great on on HD set, but crappy on a SDTV (standard definition TV) . The environments 
 look very realistic and are thrown around by bullets very nicely. And all of this is made even 
 better by incredible lighting, sometimes you will look at an object and swear you're looking at 
 the real thing (with the exception of bullet holes in walls which are just stickers) . Sound is 
 really great, good voice work, weapons sound good, the objects make realistic sounds when interacted 
 with and there are some really disturbing sounds in the scary sequences. So overall it's a great 
 game with a very good single player that translates well into the multiplayer. One thing I want 
 to mention is that the achievements are tough so don't get this just to boost your score. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dreski83
Rating: 7.2
Date: Mar 20, 2007 2:58 am PT
Review:  For anyone who enjoys a decent FPS experience FEAR is nothing short of what the doctor ordered. 
 Based off the much talked about PC&nbsp; version, the 360 plays just about the same exact way and 
 them some thanks to achievements and smooth controls.&nbsp; The biggest drawback in this game is 
 after the first few levels you realize the game is nothing more than a simple shooter&nbsp; with 
 cheap atmospheric tricks to keep you pushing till the&nbsp; end.
  &nbsp;
  GAMEPLAY
  So you start the game as some nameless grunt who is given the task of chasing down some other dude 
 with the ability to command clone armies with his mind. Ofcourse you do this all alone, cause anything 
 else would be plain silly. Once in the heat of battle your well trained grunt puts his skills to 
 work by&nbsp; peaking around corners,&nbsp; dual wielding weapons, using numerous melee attacks and 
 my&nbsp; personal favorite, your ability to hit a Slow-Mo button. Because every good soldier needs 
 one!! Once you master the controls you notice moving your character is very similar to moving over 
 ice where if you gain enough momentum&nbsp; you tend to slide and stumble. On the PC it felt as 
 if setting your mouse sensitivity too high would be the cause of such a thing, but after mixing 
 on a controller I think the developers were purposely going for&nbsp; some semi-realistic thing 
 that just made me want to walk more than run.
  &nbsp;
  VISUALS
  In this department, FEAR&nbsp; is what some cool kids would call BOSS. It may be another straight 
 up bare bones shooter, but it goes far and beyond most others&nbsp; to really drag you into the 
 world by pushing shadows and lighting to the max on the 360. Most would assume this game to be 
 some sort of horror experience, yet there is not many things in the world that really rattles you 
 besides seeing other dead bodies striped of their flesh or you unloading a shotty round into someone 
 who explodes. Either way, both look great and using the slow-mo button simply adds to the appreciation. 
 Level design was decet at best if you like going thru office buildings and small cooridors. Not 
 much was done in allowing&nbsp; you to freely explore or even get lost, but with such high detail 
 on every object I imagine&nbsp; this was not entirely a bad call.
  &nbsp;
  AUDIO
  Turn. it. UP!&nbsp; For any fool who enjoys a good startle or reason to be nervous&nbsp; within their 
 own home, FEAR does pretty well in giving all the weapons their own distinct sounds plus fully 
 utilizing 5.1 surround sound. Everything from creepy whispers from dark corners&nbsp; to baddies 
 talking trash in the distance, depending on where your standing or facing everything syncs up very 
 accurately and that alone is a big reason to play thru once or twice just so you can notice the 
 difference.
  &nbsp;
  EXTRAS
  Not that I have any gripes with this common thing I'm seeing among FPS's, but out of the 47 possible 
 achievements within the game about half of those are earned thru online play. Which is not a bad 
 thing at all since the single player campaign will only last you a few sit downs,&nbsp; I just wish 
 there was a little more&nbsp; creativity other than using the pistol to kill 50 or more people in 
 ranked matches. Once you get&nbsp; halfway&nbsp; thru the game you have a bonus mission that allows 
 you to play as another FEAR operative which will only last you about 10-15 minutes... in other 
 words not much.
  &nbsp;
  OVERALL
  After killing numerous clone soldiers, crawling thru tons of repetitive dark areas, and plenty&nbsp; of 
 creepy&nbsp; dead girl whispers&nbsp; you get near the end of the game and some sort of thing called 
 the story decides to show up. Even if I wanted to try really hard I don't&nbsp; think I could spoil 
 this twisted plot, yet the game does what its born to do and that is entertain. Unless your a hardcore 
 freak for online combat, single player&nbsp; does little to push the experience&nbsp; besides collecting 
 energy boosters and blowing away baddies in slow motion. Maybe FEAR would have been better off 
 as a B movie action flick. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: METALgearJES
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 19, 2007 6:23 pm PT
Review:  FEAR enjoyed its time on the PC with much critical and commercial success. The game featured all 
 the scary thrills with some intense action. Now the PC hit lands on the consoles.
  
  
  The game's story begins with a Special Forces unit (Called FEAR, not going to bother with the ridiculous 
 full name) gets a call about paranormal activity and a General gone mad. The premise is well told 
 but the story is basically told through in-game messages from recordings and comm.-links. The game 
 does feature some intense and thrilling moments but Vivendi Universal opted to go with the less 
 is more scheme were they scare you with little sounds and then every now and then a they give you 
 a scare. The gameplay is what you would expect from a standard FPS. The game features Slo-mo which 
 gives you an advantage over the great enemy A. I. The graphics is where this game takes a dive. 
 I understand this game was done last year for the PC but I expect more on a Nest-gen console. The 
 game's visuals pick up a notch in the fire fights. When bullets go flying, pieces of wall come 
 off, dust rises in the air and great rag doll physics help out the game a little. But great particle 
 effects cannot help this game from being your standard FPS affair. The sound is good when there 
 is sound. While touching objects and walking, you here little things rattling and whispers to get 
 you startled. The game has many moments between fire fights were you are just walking and enjoying 
 the scenery, the scenery being one grey colored office maze after another. The game does feature 
 multi-player for up to 16. It is pretty standard stuff, death match type matches and a game type 
 which features the Slo-mo action included in the single player. Overall this game is good but nothing 
 that is a must-play or own. There are better shooters on the Xbox 360 right now with better production, 
 story, graphics and overall gameplay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mnkyking
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 19, 2007 4:02 pm PT
Review:  The 360 is definately the system to have if you like shooters, and yet another awesome FPS has 
 come to grace the system. FEAR is a awesome game that plays alot like many other games in the genre, 
 but with a few cool extra features thrown in and a genuinely creepy horror element.
  
  Gameplay: The story is basically like that of many other shooters: you are a super-soldier sent 
 in by the military to stop a small army of evil dudes from doing some evil stuff, but while your 
 running around through the game's many office buildings and industrial complexes a creepy little 
 girl and this vampire-like leader of said evil dudes will haunt you whenever you enter any long 
 hallways or dark spaces. Though the general gameplay is like that of many shooters, its the small 
 touches that make the biggest differnce: enemy AI is the smartest that I've seen in ANY game for 
 a long time, and the slo-motion ability really livens up the firefights. Awesome stuff.
  
  Graphics: As one would expect, FEAR's graphics are as good as any other high-budget 360 game. I 
 found it hard to get through my first big firefight in the game because I was entranced by all 
 the cool graphical effects going on around me: chunks of plaster flying off the wall as bullets 
 hit it, dust particals obscuring the air, and the blood of a soldier that I had just shot splattering 
 against the desk and wall behind him. Top notch.
  
  Sound: All the guns sound great, the voice acting is very good, but what really stands out is all 
 the noise that plays as you enter one of the horror sequences. The screeching and screaming noises, 
 combined with the well-timed musical ques can scare the crap out of the bravest of gamers. Really 
 good.
  
  All in all, a superb game with top-notch production values that takes a old FPS formula, sprinkles 
 in some good old horror elements, adds some extremely smart enemies and bullet time, and comes 
 out to be a really cool game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gaeren
Rating: 6.7
Date: Mar 19, 2007 8:07 am PT
Review:  graphically speaking, fear isn't going to drive you to cheat on better games. the blur effects 
 in reflex-time are nifty but nowhere near enough of a gimmick to carry the entire title. fortunately 
 it plays pretty well. the stealth aspects could have used polish and i wasn't blown away by the 
 weapon sets either, but the story holds this rickety endeavor together completely.
  
  that said the enemy a. i. does in fact shine, particularly at hgr difficulties. it won't be beating 
 a russian at chess any time soon, but it certainly makes you think, which is what a. i. is sposed 
 to do anyway.
  
  is it worth picking up? yeah. just don't expect it to be better than really any high tier game 
 out there, and u won't be dissapointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: calui
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 17, 2007 7:00 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay 9: The gameplay on Fear is top notch, and executed exellently for the most part. The action 
 is very intense and thrilling. You'll also battle some of the smartest a. i. ever in a shooter. 
 They are extremlly smart and will do many things that you wouldn't expect. They will take cover, 
 communicate with each other, and there attacks are relentless and will deal a lot of damage to 
 you. Fear also features some pretty interesting weapons like the type 7 particle weapon, that shoots 
 a beam of electricity, and the penetrator both quite interesting weapons. Fear also features the 
 rest of the standard weapons that you would expect from a typical FPS. Put simply every battle 
 in Fear is an intense and satisfying experience. There is also a slow-mo ability that your guy 
 posses to slow down time, which is really a neat idea. There's just something really satisfying 
 about shooting a marine then watching his body fly back in slow motion. There are also a decent 
 amount of variety to the enemies that you fight, but that doesn't mean the a. i. doesn't get somewhat 
 predictable after awhile. The gameplay also does experience a good bit of repetion but there are 
 even some small puzzles to help make the gameplay somehwhat more varied. Despite the fact that 
 the gameplay does get somewhat repetative, the gameplay is still a lot of fun. Graphics 9: The 
 graphics on Fear are on par with the amazing graphics on the PC from last year. While they look 
 slightly dated, and could be somehwhat better on the 360, overall the graphics still look great. 
 Sound 10: Fear also features top notch sound effects, voice acting, and music as well. The sounds 
 the guns make while firing sounds spectacular, and the voice acting is exeucted to near perfection, 
 and the music throughout the game is excellent, including the moments Alma comes on the scene sound 
 amazing as well. Overall the sound is nearly perfect. Value 9: Fear's campaign will take you about 
 8-12 hours to finish, and you will probablly want to play through the campaign again on Extreme 
 to get more achievements. Fear also features a pretty interesting instant action mode, and the 
 mutli-player is pretty well done as well. Pretty much you will be kept busy with Fear long after 
 you have beat the campaign. Tilt 9: Fear features a scary as hell story, that will likely intrigue 
 you greatly, but the game is not to innovaitve with it's ideas. Alma is pretty much directly taken 
 from the girl in the Ring, and besides slow mo most of the action is pretty much standard fps action. 
 Overall it's still great though. Overall 9.1/10 Overall Fear is still an excellent FPS. It's intense 
 kinetic action, combined with it's scary atmosphere alone make it worth checking out. The game 
 does have some issues with repetition and you won't see a whole lot of new ideas interested in 
 Fear, but what was already done, is still well implemented in Fear. Overall Fear is a must play 
 game for fans of shooters, or if you like scary stuff as well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: contaminated
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 15, 2007 6:46 pm PT
Review:  PC games that port to consoles arn't really that good however FEAR is an exception as it does the 
 PC version justice. The graphcis are pretty good although not that different compared to the PC 
 version the PC one is still better. The single player is pretty short with a story that is pretty 
 chilling but after the first hour or two you will get used to seeing the same old similiar lights 
 going off and scary little tid bits here and there. The multiplayer is also pretty good but unfortunately 
 not many people are actively playing it. The audio is pretty decent with some good eerie music 
 but its the same old same old. The achievments are there but most of them are hard to get and consist 
 of playing the singleplayer player game over and over and over. It is a pretty good game but there 
 are far more superior game out their that was released around the same time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: godmachine0603
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 13, 2007 8:23 pm PT
Review:  I wish i could compare the 360 version of this title to the PC counterpart. But i cant. I have 
 heard FEAR is more enjoyable on the computer but i tell you what, i couldnt care less. I had a 
 blast playing this game. I beat the single player a total of 4 times trying to unlock all the achievments, 
 and still didnt get them all. The diffuculty level is quite high and aquiring all the gamerscore 
 points is not an easy task. But what kept me coming back for more was the gameplay. I really enjoyed 
 the slo mo effect. Once i had it mastered i found myself usining it constantly, especially on the 
 extreme setting. When i took my time and tried my best , beating extreme was difficult, but not 
 as hard as i had expected. Yeah the graphics are average but BIG DEAL! Its all about gamplay and 
 this one has it. Top that with a pretty cool storyline and this is a game that shouldnt be missed. 
 I got goosebumps every time Alma was walking towards me. The online is pretty fun too. I personally 
 liked capture the flag best. However i found it hard to find and or get a game started most likely 
 due to the amount of players that actually play the game. Being used to the strategy and depth 
 of Gears of War, the FEAR online experience seemed a bit bland but still very enjoyable. If you 
 like FPS at all, you should go by this game right away. You will not be dissapointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ArchangelMRN
Rating: 8.2
Date: Mar 12, 2007 7:20 pm PT
Review:  F. E. A. R is a horror FPS that is a continuation of the PC version. It combines fast paced action 
 with stealth. You will spend alot of your time crouching around dark encloused quarters. That said 
 there are points in the game when you'll be wandering around in the dark looking for something 
 else to shoot as there is alot of walking around after clearing an area. Ok storyline that is considering 
 it is a run and gun game. The AI is intelligent and team based, you'll often encounter clearing 
 a room only to turn a corner and be anbushed by another group of hostiles waiting to catch you 
 off gaurd. The single player campaign is nothing however compared to the online mode. You can play 
 a variety of gametypes with up to 16 players. If you are a long time fan of shooters or just trying 
 it out this is a great game that i find to be very underated. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AWalGamer
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 11, 2007 10:23 am PT
Review:  F. E. A. R is a great game. That's all that really needs to be said. But I will key you in on some 
 extra information:
  
  &gt; Singleplayer
  -Very Scary
  -Intense firefights
  -Brilliant AI
  -Veriety of weapons
  -Great Gameplay
  
  &gt; Multiplayer
  -Large, fun games
 
  -Various Game types
  -Fun gun/kit system
  -Interesting Levels
  
  &gt; Overall
  -Great Graphics
  -Good use of bullet time
  -Decently hard achievements
  
  Sorry I need 
 to fill up more space
  Sorry I need to fill up more space
  Sorry I need to fill up more space
  Sorry I need to fill up more space
  Sorry I need to fill 
 up more space
  Sorry I need to fill up more space
  Sorry I need to fill up more space 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pilz-E_Uk
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 8, 2007 3:48 am PT
Review:  Fear is a brilliant game, when i think about.. i had me going back for more and more! uncovering 
 the story was great, how ever... I found the game started lossing the scaryness as it went on, i 
 bough this game thinkin it was goin to be scarier then it actually was. i also found sometimes 
 on the comlink it was difficult to hear what the guy was saying even when i turned it up... it needed 
 loads more scary bits, there arnt enough scary games on the consols or pc's, the only games are 
 resisdent evil that stands out for me, thats it really.. i kept thinkin to myself if such n such 
 would happen it would scare the crap out of me exspecting something to happen when nothing did..
 
  
  but on the plus side, its a great game. its what games should be just plain fun nothin difficult. 
 take this gun and shoot the badies into tiny peices. lots of blood everygame needs stupid amounts 
 of blood and big noisey guns. FPS are my type of game, but there never scary, so fear was a good 
 choice not scary enough but had its monets that made me jump, also a nice looking game doesnt compet 
 with Gears but it still enjoyed it. at the end of the game i thought the story could of been explained 
 a lil better! but i love all the flash backs and the whole lil girl idea brilliant idea, MORE OF 
 THESE GAMES PLEASE!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drdrillnfill
Rating: 8.6
Date: Mar 7, 2007 6:01 pm PT
Review:  I played the PC version of this game and honestly liked it better on that than on the 360. To me 
 it was built as a mouse and keyboard game and for some reason didnt carry that wow factor over 
 to the 360. The game however is good. A new kinda max payne feel to a first person shooter. Nothing 
 super spectacular but nothing shy of a pretty darn good game. Then enemy A. I. is pretty upbeat 
 however, seems to be a bit dumbed down from the PC version. The graphics are good if you are playing 
 on a nice LCT/DLP/Plasma HD Tv, and if you for some reason, you will not be that impressed. The 
 storyline is okay, but Im not much of a storyline type of guy, just give me a good game and thats 
 all I care about. The online play is average and personally I will continue to stick with CoD2 
 for a first person shooter when it comes to online play. A must play for any 360 first person shooter 
 fan however. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: luckypool04
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 7, 2007 12:22 pm PT
Review:  FEAR, has quite possibly some of the best Enemy A. I I have ever seen in a game. The Slo-Mo engine 
 however is what sets this game apart from most FPS games and even with it you will get hit with 
 bullets. The guns are great, with many to choose from.
  
  STORY: FEAR certainly describes what paranormal beings youre facing. Paxton Fettal is the person 
 you will be trying to eliminate through the game but your real Fear is of Alma. Alma a girl taken 
 at birth and experimented on is your main villain though. The story is pretty decent but could 
 have used a little more depth. The ending however is the best part and will have you wondering 
 whats next?
  
  ENTERTAINMENT: your enemy will flank you, dive for cover and call for reinforcements when needed. 
 They are also often well equipped with amour and powerful weapons. They usually almost always come 
 in groups and will likely hear you or see you if you make any sudden movements. However the most 
 dangerous enemy at first will seem to be an enemy with a full metal jacket and a powerful bolt 
 like weapon. Until you meet the Mechanical machine, you will not know what an ultra enemy reinforcement 
 means. It will obliterate anything in its path with its two rocket launcher guns at its side and 
 it will break through walls until it finds you. If you thought Slo-Mo was a good tool at your disposal, 
 it certainly dos not work against a machine that has ultra fast reflexes. PROS: Amazing enemy AI, 
 with smart group tactics, Great Slo-Mo engine, surprisingly great ending, interesting shadow mechanics, 
 haunting music keeps the mood of the game dark and paranormal, sound of bullets and everything 
 you touch will bring the atmosphere alive, Intense multiplayer, CONS: Combat becomes kind of stale 
 around the middle of the game and too many of the same environments haunt your path, complex control 
 scheme.
  
  OVERALL: Lots of fun can be had, through this games frantic firefights. Yet it will leave you wanting 
 more of everything from, story to environment and everything in-between. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: starsdestroy
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 7, 2007 12:01 am PT
Review:  This could possibly be the most underrated FPS for the Xbox 360. It's pretty much everything you'd 
 expect from a FPS, but with an added horror vibe to it. I'll admit that the story is kinda sketchy, 
 but I don't generally play FPS games for the story anyway. It is hard to make out the story a lot 
 of the time because as you go along in the game you listen to various phone messages that are really 
 low sound wise or it's just plain hard to make out what the heck is being said. The AI of your 
 enemies is down right smart. They'll start shooting at you well before you can even see them. They 
 are an elite bunch. Most of the troops are the same, but here and there you get some big enemies 
 that are difficult at times. I found that even when I did get killed and had to go back and do 
 it over it was still really fun. This game is so good that even when you do get stuck in a difficult 
 spot and die a few times you keep wanting to play it and beat it.
  
  The weapons range from kinda weak to really powerful. The plasma gun is a riot. Scorching your 
 enemies to a skeleton is just wicked awesome! Great grenade action as well. One great feature is 
 the slo-mo feature. You can chuck grenades at your enemies and watch them explode in slow motion 
 as their blood and guts splatter all over the walls and floor. The slo-mo feature also helps during 
 really difficult sections of the game.
  
  The graphics are really nice. Definitely next gen graphics.
  
  The control layout is very easy 
 to master. It shouldn't take anyone more than 30 minutes to master the controls.
  
  The sound is pretty typical of shooters. Though you do get some creepy music as well. I haven't 
 played FEAR online yet, but I will soon. I don't generally play a game again after I've finished 
 the campaign, but I probably will play this one again.
  
  I'm giving FEAR a rating of 9. It would have gotten a 10 if the story had been more clear. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chillbob1231
Rating: 8.3
Date: Mar 1, 2007 7:54 pm PT
Review:  FEAR is an awesome game that has some of the coolest fps shooting on the 360. The slow motion mode 
 is cool and it really makes you feel like your in the matrix or something to that effect. It has 
 a great and very freaky story line which sometimes almost makes you soil your self. There is a 
 little girl who constintly pops up at unexpected times. You find out later in the game what she 
 knows about you, (lets just say shes a close relative gone crazy for a good reason) . The only problem 
 I had with fear is that the graphics really only looked good in slowmo, and it didn't really seem 
 like it was worth 60 bucks. But like i said it is a great shooter with an awesome story line. Id 
 say go out and rent it or if you really want to you could buy it. chilly 
::::::

::::::
UserName: black_chewbacca
Rating: 7.2
Date: Mar 1, 2007 6:13 pm PT
Review:  Good: Intense shooting action; Great plot; game will make you jump out of your seat; nice music.
 
  
  Bad: Dated game play engine; graphics are a let down for the 360; the sound is utterly disgusting; 
 online mode is a mess; single player gets repetitive; achievements were poorly thought out; guns 
 aren't very unique, they handle differently but look generic.
  
  
  F. E. A. R. is an almost direct port from the PC version which came out almost two years ago. The 
 only notable difference is the instant action, which is unimpressive and overall not that fun. 
 Another thing that has not changed is the great visceral action, but it is severely downgraded 
 in the 360 version, in fact, its so downgraded, the quality of the game can be noticed right when 
 you start. F. E. A. R. has an incredible plot that lays down a great feel of creepiness right from 
 the start. You are part of an elite recon team that handles supernatural issues. You will be roaming 
 around dark corridors, in indoor buildings for the majority of the game, you will rarely go outside, 
 or even near foliage. Once you start playing you will notice that the game play engine feels really 
 awkward. The game play just feels rotten and old, luckily you can change the sensitivity. The controls 
 are a complete mess, F. E. A. R. was better off on the keyboard. The guns are a real let down as well, 
 they may all handle extremely different, which is good, but they are also generic.
  
  Some of the guns are pretty cool; one shoots out spikes, but for the most part, there are only 
 a few, and they aren't that attractive and look like cliche guns from other FPS's. Even single 
 gun looks unimpressive and boring. While this may be a let down, one of F. E. A. R.'s great graphical 
 features is the slick character models. They are all precicely detailed and the animations look 
 great. However the overall graphics for the game are poor and don't turn out well on the 360. It 
 may be powerful enough to play it, but they ported over the exact same code from the PC version 
 so they cant improve greatly. The environments have good detail, the walls have cracks and dents 
 in them, but its still presented at a low quality.
  
  The most appalling part of the game is its sound. When I first started the game up, I thought that 
 maybe my TV speakers were damaged or old. I changed games to Gears, changed it back, and still 
 noticed the extremely poor sound quality. Right from the start menu the music sounds scratchy and 
 buggy. It is disgusting, and it wasn't just the music, the voices also sounded horrible. The guns 
 sound good, nothing can change the sound of a small explosion, but seriously, the sound was wretched. 
 I think it may be my CD because I just rented this, but either way, when I play it, it has just 
 downright horrible sound quality. Thankfully the sound track redeems the game just a small amount, 
 all the music in the game has a scary and dark feel, which is great.
  
  Overall, F. E. A. R. is a good game that was severely downgraded from the PC version. The achievements 
 are a complete joke, they are too hard and not even fun to get, if you kill 50 people with a weapon, 
 you get a measly 5 gamerscore. And beating the game without using health packs gets you a whopping 
 65 gamerscore. Beating the game without health boosters is extremely difficult, even on easy mode. 
 The graphics, game play, and sound all feel old and extremely dated. The online is a complete mess. 
 The servers are not populated at all and whenever you play a ranked game, everyone will just quit 
 if they aren't winning. No point loss for quitting, so why wouldn't people do it? You can instantly 
 see the amount the developers care for the game when you boot it up after 4 months from launch, 
 and find theres not even a patch. The game has minor glitches, but the online needs a patch severely. 
 If they spent little time in the translation to downgrade a great game to an alright game, then 
 they wont have the time or need to create a patch. F. E. A. R. is definitely NOT worth $60.00, the 
 only price you should even consider buying this is if its at least half that. It just doesn't have 
 enough content to justify the price and the quality is noticeably bad, showing they didn't spend 
 very much time or money on this project. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Riot429
Rating: 9.7
Date: Feb 27, 2007 12:28 pm PT
Review:  Almost any body who is any body has played FEAR for the PC. Well now it has been ported to the 
 360. FEAR is just the type of game you want. I skillfully combines Shooting, Horror, and Puzzles 
 into one game. The Xbox 360 version is almost exactly the same as the PC version. The multi player 
 has changed a bit but it is still almost the same.
  
  Story: FEAR's story is pretty much what makes up the game. I don't want to spoil so I'll just cut 
 it down. Psychopathic Moron gets possessed by a little girl who can kill people with a flick of 
 a wrist. She takes over Some type of army so the psycho can eat people. FEAR finds out, FEAR gets 
 ticked, now boom bang boom bang bang every where. Main Character is partly cause of the Supernatural 
 activity. Yea, great story right. FEAR is generally spooky there are not a whole lot of parts were 
 your like OMG I PISSED MY PANTS . I fact the game really didn't scare me. It is about as scary 
 a Stubbs the Zombie to tell you the truth. Any ways the game story is kinda interesting. Not too 
 exciting, not too scary, just interesting. Gameplay: The game play is odd. It is a fps with slow-mo. 
 Sure you seen this before but FEAR does it better then any other game out there. You can see the 
 bullets fly though the air and hit the enemy like a fat guy going for a Big Mac. Sadly to say that 
 FEAR does slow-mo better then the Matrix game. Which is sad. The game does has some puzzles but 
 they are simple and any three year old could do them. There is some platforming in the game, it 
 can get frustrating considering the game is a fps and platforming never goes good with any first 
 person game. It just better left to Mario, or even Luigi for that matter, heck even Blinx. The 
 FPS in FEAR is outstanding I don't think any game (besides Halo and Half-Life) could top this. 
 It is fast paced as Quake use to be and the Xbox 360 controller goes great with it. Its like peanut 
 butter and jelly (not the peter pan peanut butter *dies*) it just goes great together.
  
  Graphics:
  The gfxs are great. They are not the best the 360 has even seen though (DOA Xtreme 
 2, DOA 4, and PGR 3) but they are great. They could stand to improve. I did get some frame rate 
 issues though when I was coming out of slow-mo. Did I mention the slow-mo? Oh yea I did. Sound: 
 The sound is meh. Wanna know why. The main character never friggin talks. I hate that. People will 
 be talking to him and he will just sit there like a retard not even nodding his head (I have to 
 make him do that) Other wise the sound is good. It is scary and such but it is just typically otherwise. 
 All and all FEAR is a great game and every Xbox 360 owner should think about getting this game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Exi_Idemun
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 26, 2007 12:04 pm PT
Review:  F. E. A. R. in my opinion is probably the best FPS on the 360 at the moment its has suberb graphics 
 and exellent gameplay.
  
  FEAR takes a while to get into but but after about an hour or so its like a drug. One of the most 
 gripping things in this game is the enemy A. I. it is extremely realitic and fun to try and catch 
 them out. Another thing i noticed about this game is it features many characteristics of older 
 FPS (32/64 bit gen) . i. e. sending you far into a level to do an objective and then return to the 
 start when the objective is complete and instead of back tracking all the way a door is open that 
 was locked at the start of the level and just the general level design itself reminds me of older 
 FPS's. The storyline in FEAR is interesting but hard to follow as it is picked up on answering 
 machines and laptops as you progress through the game.
  
  The weapons in this game are very well designed also as it contains realistic weapons of today 
 aswell as some interesting futiristc weapons.
  THe slow motion element is alos a very good quirk to this game.
  
  The graphics in this game 
 are exellent as i mentioned earlier but are added to by the extremely realitic core element in 
 this game. You cvan do some damage with a shotgun, perticularly to the limbs and head of you foes.
 
  
  All in All a must buy for any 360 owner. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dr_slim2004
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 25, 2007 10:40 pm PT
Review:  Ok just how you said gamepad is clumsy i had the exact same problem with throwing grenades when 
 i played the pc version right till the end to and i normally play xbox so i think it is more transitional 
 than gamepad error. or maybe its hard to control the actuall game itself dont know its still one 
 in my opinion one of the best
  shooters out there gave it a solid 9.2 games graphics getting out of date thats just the game showing 
 its 2 year age but because sitting on the couch with wireless controller which i can still pwn 
 and hd with surround sound is how its meant to be played i think justifys specially if your neva 
 played it so buy it my freinds or hire at least. peace. p. s the graphics are better on xbox aswell 
 remember they gave it 9.1 on pc and 8.6 on xbox ok wheres the logic you ask i dont know you tell 
 mee. yeah theres mods i dont care for them to many other games to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: preston09
Rating: 9.8
Date: Feb 24, 2007 12:46 pm PT
Review:  This game dons't take long to begin better then most horror movies and surpass all the horror games. 
 It starts of with a movie of some guy going crazy and eating everyone in this hospital.. So you 
 are sent there to find him... And withinh 10 seconds of playing you will already jump out of your 
 seat. During the game you will probably find yourself turing off your system or pausing becuase 
 its so scary! ... this is the only game that has ever done this to me! And of course there is a 
 little girl who is dead folowing you around everywhere.. seriously! what else is scarier then a 
 little girl? Im not going to tell you much about this game except even if you read what to do on 
 the internet, or have one of those cheat books that tells you everything, you will still get scared! 
 The shooting is awsome it feels like for once you actualy are shooting a real life gun.. when you 
 shoot you take chuncks out of the wall... The mulitplayer takes some getting use to.. its fast passed 
 so you can die quick!! but its awsome... so if i were you .. i would buy the game! rent it if you 
 want but you probably wont get done with the campaign in a week.. unless you are not scared of anything. Cause 
 this came might get some of you scared that it will make you will play viva pin yata.. or something 
 like that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: grimreaper20001
Rating: 8.6
Date: Feb 22, 2007 11:20 am PT
Review:  This game was amazingly good mostly because of the ending that just ties everything together that 
 at first you overlook because you think its not important and then it just hits you all at once 
 with an AMAZING ending that i have literally beaten the last level of the game about 7 times just 
 to keep viewing. The overall game is definitely worth its 8.6 rating and the creators of fear should 
 definitely stick to this genre of games just because it is that good. The replay value is kinda 
 low because once you have seen everything once its just not scary the second time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eXists
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 20, 2007 3:23 pm PT
Review:  
 
  [The Good]
  
 
  AI &gt; I started the game on Extreme since I tend to start games such as Call of Duty 2 and COD 
 3 on Veteran, and I quickly reverted back to medium difficulty due to the amazing AI that was seriously 
 beating me up. Surely, getting used to the controls/aiming and SlowMo was part of the problem but 
 still was pretty surprised how they keep coming at you and flank you, best I've seen to date.
 
  
  Multiplayer &gt; Multiplayer is a lot of fun, it's very addictive and fights can get real crazy 
 on some maps, you will need some sharp reflexes.
  
  Melee &gt; Melee fighting options add to the game but are not always useful. Sneaking up is also 
 hard even though there are so many dark areas, that would've given the game much more depth.
  
 
  
  
 
  [The Bad]
  
 
  Presentation &gt; The graphics is below average for a game coming a year after the 360 release. 
 Condemned looked way better except for the characters of course.
  
  Maps &gt; No map and having to run around in some places to look for an exit is sometimes a pain 
 especially that environments are so similar with no obvious landmarks. At least show a map for 
 places that were already visited.
  
  Fear Factor &gt; Definetely overrated, again Condemned is much scarier, I also think Doom 3 is 
 even scarier than FEAR.
  
  Story &gt; The story is really boring and non-existent really, I was expecting a much better story 
 and plot, you just feel that it was added at the last moment, needs serious work in future versions.
 
  
  Achievements &gt; Achievements are a pain, I felt no need to go back and play through the single 
 player X number of times, it follows the Condemned model but it's even harder, you can't do it 
 in 2 runs but need more than that.
  
  Save &gt; No save anywhere is always something I look for, checkpoints are ok and you can remove 
 that option for Extreme difficulty but it's always a plus. You can make a game to be harder without 
 limiting your save options.  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: daewoo2
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 20, 2007 12:39 pm PT
Review:  F. E. A. R is by far am epic story of a paranormal event that blends so closely with reality its hard 
 to tell the differnence apart. From the moment the game begins on that very first movie a story 
 has already come into development, it reminds me so much of a bit from star wars when the clones 
 turn on the jedi but at the very beginning of it all. As you progress through the game you encounter 
 enemies and charecters that all twist into its story from your allies to your no'1 enermie.
  
  The game seems to be based around a little girl named Alma who as you have guessed is not your 
 ordinary little girl with her Barbie doll, instead a sharp mind and loads of demon she plays with. 
 Anyway as before as you progress through the game you see events that have happend in her life 
 and why she wants revenge for those who abused her and locked her away. The other person in the 
 story is a cannibal physhic who escapes from his prision and takes control of these EXTREMELY dangerous 
 prototype soldiers that the company Armacham has created in there paranormal divison. Another big 
 charecter in the story is the head of the company Armachan, Harlam Wade. His events in the game 
 show what he did to Alma and Fettal. Things soon break out of hand as the soldiers turn on there 
 makers and kill them. And thats where you the player comes in.
  
  You play as a spec-ops soldier with over the chart reflex abilities that just transferred from 
 his last job. After a quick briefing you are sent straight into the hotzone to locate and capture 
 Paxton Fettal. Just before you start the mission a short movie will show a man talking to a woman 
 on a bed about to give birth to a baby. At the end he say You will be a god among men .
  
  After that it begins, as you exit the car the sound of helicopters catches your attention up in 
 the air. Soon you come to a building and go through the door already your curious as to whats going 
 on and wish to learn more. Soon after you run into your team mate who you see in the breifing at 
 the beginning. He tells you to find a way round so you can meet up. Then as you walkthrough the 
 doors your first paranormal event appears, you hear an electrical scatter and suddenly a man walks 
 past giving you a chill. You quickly run to see who it was but when you get there he is gone. You 
 will encounter more moments like this throughout the game so be prepared they can give a chill. 
 Anyway after that you run into your team mate again who opens the door for you, then you move on 
 together. You then come to a door and you kick it open and then you have your second adreniline 
 physique rush. Your team mate goes first but as you follow he suddenly dissapears in feathers. 
 Urgently wanting to move on you do so until you find a dead man sitting in a chair and thats when 
 everything goes back to normal and your team mates back with you. The dead man sitting in the chair 
 has had his face eaten by Paxton Fettal you can see the bone of jaw and everything. Anyway your 
 team mate calls for Jen the woman who was in the breifing to come look at the body. Then a patch 
 comes through from your superior, he tells you to look for fettal as his signal is close. As you 
 then go look for him your team mate stays to wait for jen and you go on your own through the building. 
 Soon you come to the rooftop of the building and go around the corner and WHAK!! Fettal knocks 
 you out with a piece of wood. You wake up to have him and his guards standing over you. Blood dripping 
 down his face from his last meal he tells you the dead mans name in the chair and what he did. 
 Just before the end he says They deserve to die, They all deserve to die and thats when you passout. 
 You wake up later to find him and his guards gone, but where is the question. You then head back 
 to find jen and the other guy and thats when you reach the end of the first level. I am not saying 
 anymore on the story but it gets alot better and creepier as you progress. All IN ALL A FANTASTIC 
 GAME THAT ANYONE LOOKING FOR A CHALLENGING ACTION SHOOTER WITH A PULSE POUNDING STORY SHOULD GET. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MERC_RECONN
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 20, 2007 12:41 pm PT
Review:  I remember when I first saw the trailer for this game, I was drawn to it. The music, story and 
 so many other things about this game just sucked me right in. But I didn't have a Pc or 360 at the 
 time, so I had to just watch, and listen to reviews from gamers, and the gaming media.
  
  I've had my 360 since november, but I didn't pick up F. E. A. R until december ( I was waiting on the 
 ps3 version) . After a few minutes with this game, I knew I was in for an experience I wouldn't 
 forget. The things that jumped out at you during the course of the game really made you jump.... unless 
 you are used to this creepy stuff. But I think even the ######## would have to be freaked out at 
 some of the things that happen in F. E. A. R. Between the soldiers and the creepy little girl (your 
 mom) this game will keep you on edge.
  
  My only complaint , some of the guns were a pain to aim with, but after you found the guns that 
 worked best for you, it was all smooth sailing. I'm glad this game is becoming a franchise, I can't 
 wait for part 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WateredTruth
Rating: 4.8
Date: Feb 19, 2007 9:39 am PT
Review:  Ok before you all message me about how great the game is ill say this: it did look pretty good [acctually 
 i wanted to buy it] but the graphics and the way it feels are kinda bland. Gameplay is done pretty 
 well. It gives you the real first person experiance that games like Condemned and COD3 do but fully 
 emerce it. not only that but the creepyness behind every coridor is good for a nice spook but the 
 game does lack alot. It lacks alot of the feel of normal a FPS and the 360 controller is just not 
 the place for a PC ported FPS but not only that but the graphics aren't all that. Ive seen better 
 graphics on the Wii and this is a 360 game! kinda dicipointing but back to the point; the graphics 
 are bland, the controls are horrid, and the enemys are easy [even on hard] now for the sound... actually 
 its well done! The atmosphereic sound is so well done even i was a little scared! but as much as 
 sound is good in the game doesn't mean that its good. trust me; if you're gonna by this than please... BUY 
 IT FOR THE PC!! cause there is where it really shines. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jk4life2
Rating: 8.6
Date: Feb 19, 2007 8:31 am PT
Review:  fear is a really good game i had a really great time playing this game it scared the **** out of 
 me the story was good and istant action is fun but the multiplayer was bad it felt very dull playing 
 the online mode it wasnt that fun at all its just a regular fps online nothin unique you kno no 
 scaryness online the graphics arent that good either i think if this game had better graphics it 
 woul have been better it looks like a ps2 game not 360 but the gameplay is fun the slowmotion thing 
 is awsome especially with the shotgun just shooting them is crazy there bodys are flying every 
 where its fun also i like that kick move haha its cool all in all this game is a very good game 
 if u like fps scary shooters get this game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: splintacell25
Rating: 8.1
Date: Feb 18, 2007 5:15 pm PT
Review:  This game starts out great, but the intense moments get very repetitive and not worth it after 
 a while. If you do choose to stick through a pretty boring middle of the game, there is a sufficient 
 ending. The whole plot isn't that impressive, but it doesn't bring the game down. I found a pretty 
 erratic frame rate, but besides that it didn't have technical issues. The graphics are pretty average. 
 There are defintely some challenging parts, but other than that its a pretty linear and straightfoward. 
 If you are looking for a solid FPS then this might be a game to check out, but if your looking 
 for a more enjoyable or innovative shooter you might want Gears of War, Halo, or Rainbow Six. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mmogoon
Rating: 8.7
Date: Feb 14, 2007 3:46 pm PT
Review:  The title of this game is kinda misleading. Where this game excels is not in it's ability to make 
 you jump (although sometimes its a BIT creepy) , but in its intense gameplay.
  
  On top of this, the game's got a pretty cool storyline which i feel is really important to FPSs 
 as its the best way to distinguish one from another.
  
  I'm pretty sure Monolith Productions were heavily influenced by Half-Life when making this game, 
 despite its very different atmosphere.
  You'll find many of the classic ventilation shafts, which were kinda a signature of HL back in 
 the day, in this game along with sentry guns, exploding barrels etc. which i guess is kinda a statement 
 that the game is simply trying to follow in the footsteps of the great shooters of old, instead 
 of reinventing.
  
  That said, the game uses a slow-mo system which somehow works perfectly, without appearing gimmicky 
 at all. You will be relying on this technique to get through the game, as the enemies are pretty 
 quick and considerably harder to shoot using your normal reflexes.
  
  What there is a bit of in this game, is repetition. There seems to be a little bit less variety 
 in the enemies in this game than other similar style shooters. However the way enemies are thrown 
 at you just seems right, and the gameplay never gets boring.
  
  There are no vehicle sequences or anything like that, but there's a hell of a lot of shooting. 
 Which is fine by me.
  
  The campaign is a pretty nice length too. But will take you considerably longer on Extreme difficulty 
 given the nature of the sometimes-annoyingly infrequent checkpoints.
  
  The graphics aren't bad generally but definitely aren't pushing the 360 to its limits. Textures 
 never look particularly amazing, but the cool effects of scattering debris and stuff during slow-mo 
 sequences definitely look awesome.
  
  The online is pretty awesome too. Ive had some pretty cool games on XBL with not much lag. Another 
 bonus is the online gameplay is super fast since the respawn is instant so its just pure action. 
 One gripe with the online is that the G2A2 rifle is kinda overpowered, so when i wanna go for the 
 other weapon achievements, i kinda suck. Basically in online if you wanna win, you gotta select 
 the G2A2 before you start.
  
  The instant action mode they threw into the X360 package is definitely cool.
  Basically there 
 are four scenarios to choose from and you need to try and finish them without dying. Its an excellent 
 addition because it gives you an instant kind of sample of what FEAR is best at - the intense firefights. 
 To make the instant action even more competitive there are online leaderboards for you to get an 
 idea of how good you are. Also, the extreme instant action maps are totally solid. Even harder 
 than the extreme version of the campaign because you need to last much longer without dying.
  
  FEAR is great shooter. It's not a survival horror or anything like that. Its an example of 
 FPS at some of its finest. If you're into shooters, pick this up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darkshot19
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 10, 2007 7:10 pm PT
Review:  i had played fear for PC and i thought it was really amazing and it scared me quite a few times 
 however on the 360 i was pretty dissapointed it was nice to have a few new guns but the levels 
 were all the same and the multiplayer wasn't very interesting.
  
  Froma graphics stand point they are pretty high and the storyline is well written (as long as you 
 don't miss any telephone calls or computer hacking or forget to listen to the people) and the sound 
 quality isn't quite there because it is the same creeping music everywhere you go.
  
  The weapon balancing in multiplayer is awful because everyweapon does the same damage except for 
 the pulse rifle and explosives
  
  i would recommened to rent first and if you like it then go ahead and buy it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamerking178
Rating: 8.1
Date: Feb 10, 2007 1:50 am PT
Review:  Hi, here is my review for F. E. A. R.
  
  Gameplay: F. E. A. R. works well, with a creepy atmosphere, feeling like someone is watching you, 
 objects falling of selves, and very weirdly, I saw a massive eletric bolt out of no where. This 
 game IS SCARY. DO NOT PLAY IF SCARED OF THE DARK! Over all, do not blend completely.
  
  Graphics: Simply, beautiful, a few flaws, but not much, tho, graphics, how beautiful they may be, 
 do not make a game.
  
  sound: You kick a bucket, you hear the EXACT same noise it would make in real life, creepy weird 
 noises, people shouting 'n' screaming, you get the picture.
  
  Physcis engine: WOW, 100/10! The physcis are OUT OF THIS FRICKEN WORLD. The enemies use it to their 
 advantage. They see a garbage bin, they knock it over for cover. They see an explosive barrel, 
 they shoot it when you go past. Kick a bucket, it gos flying. Kick a plank, it goes in the air 
 and crashes down.
  
  AI: 100/10, you CAN'T get better than this ATM. Games in 2007 are struggling to even COMPETE with 
 these AI. They flank, they use physics to their advantage, shoot explosive barrels, covering fire, 
 call for back up, surrond you and lots more.
  
  Difficultly: Pretty easy, but hey, the Extreme mode is like, uhh, normal - heroic on Halo. Learning 
 curve: HARD. THe controlls for this game are BAD.
  
  Single player: Too short, just rent it.
  
  Mulitiplayer: Barley anyone plays, respawn system 
 is sh! t, easy, grenades overpowerd (1 hit KO for even a FEW enemies, even if not that close, and 
 the raidus is BIG) , but strangley, fun...
  
  Value: SIngle player is good with a few friend and has replay value. Muitiplayer isn't good nor 
 bad, but pure fun.
  
  OVERALL: Rent it first, you may like it, you may not, its weird the muitiliplayer, and single is 
 too short, just trust me, pay $5 and rent it, you may save $60.00. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yasso
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 6, 2007 5:52 am PT
Review:  F. E. A. R. is like a breathe of fresh air, a long-awaited savior from gaming boredom, and the definitive 
 answer to first-person-shooter fans who are not pro or hardcore enough to play every been-there-done-that 
 FPS out there.
  
  I cannot claim to be a hardcore gamer, but that's probably because I don't really have enough time 
 to play as much as I want. However, my first serious step into gaming, my first gaming fascination, 
 and my first-love game was Doom II. So there's a first-person-shooter in me that is always eagerly 
 waiting for a worthy FPS game to entice me enough. Through the years, I can remember the benchmarks, 
 the FPSes that really fascinated me: Doom II, Duke Nukem, Quake II, Half-Life, then... then I don't 
 know... yeah, some great FPSes came after that, like Medal of Honor, Call of Duty, Return to Castle 
 Wolfenstein, FarCry, Unreal series, Halo, maybe Doom III, etc... but none of those really fascinated 
 me as much as the ones I mentioned first. None of them were like an unputdownable book, so to speak. 
 I hardly got myself to beat those great games, and I didn't even beat a few of them. However, the 
 first 4 FPSes I mentioned, followed by F. E. A. R were unputdownable for me. Why?
  
  I think that the main point for me has almost always been a mix of a compelling idea and an intriguing 
 story . Of course, back in the days of Doom there was not much of a story, but the very idea of 
 an FPS in those days was by itself compelling enough. Today, the opposite is happening. As more 
 and more ideas are mass produced, the element of the story starts to be more and more important. 
 F. E. A. R. managed to pull off both elements magnificently, a compelling psychological thriller idea 
 (and although it was not new to motion picture at all, it was new to the gaming scene and was done 
 extremely well in the game) , and an intriguing story that keeps you interested enough to beat the 
 game.
  
  I gave Gameplay a score of 8 out of 10 because unfortunately I played &amp; beat the game on my 
 Xbox 360, as I need a major upgrade or basically to buy a new PC; and I'm one of the fanatics who 
 firmly believe that FPS are to be played using a keyboard &amp; mouse, and I didn't say on the 
 PC because Playstation 3 fortunately supports a keyboard &amp; mouse. So the K&amp; B control scheme 
 is not exclusive to the PC anymore today. And to summarize this point, Gameplay is not as enjoyable 
 using a console controller, and I found that playing on harder difficulties was frustrating for 
 me as I could not be fast enough moving the cursor with the controller instead of using a mouse.
 
  
  A score of 9 for Graphics because I'm sure that the game can look much, much better and more satisfying 
 on a high-end PC.
  
  10 for Sound because the voice acting was great all around, sound effects immersive, and music 
 was just awesome... I even fell in love with some parts that had Middle Eastern tunes mixed with 
 motivating drum tunes. I called some of the pieces simply genius .
  
  9 for Value because there is little replayability in the single-player campaign, and I wouldn't 
 give it a lower score because the game is more than worthy to be added to a gamer's collection. 
 I personally consider it a classic.
  
  10 for Reviewer's Tilt for hopefully obvious reasons. I really really love this game, and only 
 hope that the industry doesn't make me wait for years and years just to play something like F. E. A. R. 
 again. Maybe Crytek's upcoming Crysis will set new standards and will be a classic, but I'm not 
 too sure about the story... I really hope that the story will have enough surprises to make it intriguing 
 enough. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maxo2
Rating: 6.2
Date: Feb 5, 2007 5:17 pm PT
Review:  It's the same old FPS you've played dozens of times before. There's nothing really innovative in 
 this game -- it's designed following the classic hey, let's take an FPS and make it really dark 
 and then have random stuff jump out principle. You have some  mechanic 
 tossed in (that's hardly new) , and a pretty conventional set of weapons.
  
  The engine is not all that great... there are some problems with collision detection. There are 
 also some issues with lighting and shadows, especially when standing close to a wall.
  
  I guess there's some value in the multiplayer and the XBL achievements are decently spread out, 
 but I'm definitely glad I rented instead of buying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Leroysavage
Rating: 6
Date: Feb 3, 2007 4:25 pm PT
Review:  Now, don't get me wrong.... isn't also NOT HORRIBLE. At the beginning I was sure that I was in for 
 a Story Telling, Shooting Joy Ride. When the END came, I couldn't believe That was it. The whole 
 game you're after 1 particular bad guy, but by the end, he wasn't even a factor.
  
  The best thing that I can say about FEAR is the enemy Intelligence. They're not the normal AI Idiots 
 that one faces, but instead... there's always more than 1 way around an area... and the Bad Guys 
 know it too. This was the 1st game where the computer guys will try to FLANK you. Other than that, 
 after a great beginning, this game got very, very routine. Environments always looked the same, 
 and all you do is Hide and Shoot, rinse and repeat. Graphically Okay. Good use of Sounds. (Everything 
 you touch makes a noise, which can sometimes scare you a little) When I 1st started, I considered 
 FEAR a hybrid of Half Life 2, and Crimson Butterfly. By the end, those comparisons were gone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: reign_six6six
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 2, 2007 6:17 pm PT
Review:  F. E. AR. Is the last game I finished and Im on my second time through so far so needless to say 
 I like it. Its a great first person shooter these are my favorite kind of games and this one is 
 on of the better games Ive played lately. It keeps you on your toes most of the way through the 
 game and the game controls pretty nice to. The graphics are pretty good and the sound pulls you 
 into the game even more so Id say if you like creepy messed up shooters like I do then youll 
 enjoy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Flamebird428
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jan 31, 2007 7:44 pm PT
Review:  No other game has made me think this much. You know why I've had ot think so much? It's because 
 the AI is SO GOOD in this game. Some of the best AI i've seen in a shooter. The gunfights are so 
 freaking insane. There's paint chipping off the walls, dust clouds kicking up and shouting from 
 all directions, without one instance of slowdown. The controls will take a little getting used 
 to, however. The sound is top notch, from the replicas shouting things like HOLY ******** RUN! 
 while you plow through the rest of his teammates. However, this game is not for everyone. The game 
 has extremely strong language, with repeated uses of the F-word and the s-word. and some of these 
 achievements are near-impossible. I mean, not dying once throughout the whole game? When the AI 
 is so good? i mean COME ON! And all the multi player achievements are in ranked matches. Why? Other 
 from these minor gripes, it is once intensely disturbing game with top-notch production values. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blackninja01
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jan 30, 2007 6:36 pm PT
Review:  FEAR has lived up to the reputation of being one of the best FPS with stunning AI that is seen 
 in very few games. The sound and visuals are great as well as the gameplay. The game has a great 
 storyline and presentation as well. In fact, the presentation and they way in which they put the 
 horror and scifi into a FPS is outstanding.
  
  The only downfall of this game is it does become repetative due to the office buildings that you 
 play through. Although to thier credit, office buildings dont look any different in real life.
 
  
  If you have played this game on the pc, there is not much to come back to, even for the extra small 
 level to play. Though there is a great gun that you have that is not in the pc.
  
  (PS: Look at the paperwork and the desks in the office. Think of a movie you have seen. Really 
 funny!!!) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: damned_beast
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jan 30, 2007 5:00 pm PT
Review:  F. E. A. R has a great concept but i think the move from pc to the 360 may have killed its once greatness 
 for online play. But the single player is a great ride, but its not enough for people that enjoy 
 great online games.
  
  The gameplay in FEAR is basically the same as other FPS games just you can slow down time, and 
 actually jump and kick guys in the face. The gun in the game are way to unbalanced. The shotgun 
 packs the punch you want it to in single player and you will be trusting it for pretty much the 
 whole game. Every gun actually works really well in single player. But in multiplayer that games 
 guns don't work, the whole pick what ever is nice to get the achievements quick, but it makes most 
 matches unfun and really frustrating when a guy 2 feet away from you can kill you with half a clip 
 of a assault rifle, and you have a shot gun and you unload three shells in his neck to torso area 
 and it seems like he didn't even get hurt. The controller vibration is down right broken in this 
 game, the controller doesn't seem to ever rumble when being shot so you can come out of a fire 
 fight and think you are perfectly fine. Some of the button mapping on this game isnt to great either, 
 there could of been a better place to place switch weapon and med kits... cause most FPS games 
 use Y to switch and i always end up using med kits and it can be frustrating. Graphics are pretty 
 good, the lighting is great but the textures are kinda... boring. The character models in this 
 game, looks fantastic... but the character you play can sometimes mess up meaning his arm will 
 sometimes go in the screen and you will see floating pieces of him. I would of liked to see actual 
 reload animations too.
  
  Sounds is pretty good, but its kind of again boring. Some of the guns sound way to weak, and almost 
 all of them sound really lame too.
  
  Over all this game is worth the rental. But if you end up liking it, you should most definitely 
 buy it. But im recommending a rental first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: boricua529
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jan 29, 2007 8:59 am PT
Review:  Overall this is a good game. Its fun, changes the rhythm at some point of the game but after a 
 little while it seems to be all the same. The story seems interesting but it can be confusing. 
 A more variety of weapons would have been cool to see in this game. Overall is a good game to play 
 and have fun. The special effects are nice and the ability to have moves when hitting your enemies 
 are cool. The only thing is that once you beat the game, it's doesn't seem the type of game to 
 replay again over and over. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Morphumax
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 28, 2007 8:34 am PT
Review:  Like a lot of games out there, I'm glad I played this game for a couple of hours to warm up to 
 it. While the excellent graphics and perfect atmosphere were immediate draws, the control scheme, 
 weapons, and story all sort of eluded me for a short while. They weren't doing it for me. I'm starting 
 to attribute this to the whole shifting gears aspect of gaming, where if you're playing one game 
 for a month and really stuck on that trip and used to those controls, it'll inevitably take awhile 
 to star really getting into a new game. Whatever the reason, once I got F. E. A. R, I couldn't stop 
 playing. The weapons all have a great feel, and all they all have their purposes. Getting used 
 to them all and seeing what they specifically do is part of the games appeal, and the reason I'm 
 playing it through for the second time. For example there are four rifles that -- at face value -- could 
 be referred to as machine guns, but between one shooting projectiles the size of railway spikes 
 and another having a scope and behaving somewhat like a real life version of Halo 2's battle rifle, 
 this arsenal is actually quite diverse. The bullet-time -esque feature is cool and definiltey useful 
 in certain places. The story could've been fleshed out better, but it was well-paced and well-presented. 
 It's definiltey one of the creepier games I've played. F. E. A. R sort of reminds me mostly of a cross 
 between Doom 3, Half-Life 2, and Black, with a few touches that made me think of Project: Snowblind 
 (which was not without its charm) , without trying to copy anything. The atmosphere was excellent 
 and the graphics were superb. This is the reason I love having a 360. Personally, this blows Gears 
 of War out of the water for me, but this may be my preference for FPS's. Or maybe I don't like 
 a million interuptions chopping up my gameplay! Or some kind of awe for the concept of cover! Heh, 
 heh! Anyway, if you get into this game the way I did, you'll love it. While the slightly ungainly 
 controls take awhile to get used to perfectly, this does not detract from the game's value. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 42Krunner
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 27, 2007 8:48 pm PT
Review:  is the shotgun best at slo-mo and good for close quarters second of all is the assault rifle awesome 
 balanced rate of fire and to mo down enemies third is the rpl sub machine gun fast rate of fire 
 a reliable gun but the immersive gameplay is the one that got me . Its scary fun and exciting i 
 like the graphics they might be the same as the pc graphics but its looks great on my HDTV . the 
 effects are great actully they are balanced and look amazing. there is nothing wrong with the game 
 addicting gameplay strategic options and if if you played a few levels like i did you will probably 
 love this game at second sight not saying its bad first time i played it i didnt like it but now 
 i cant stop playing it . the AI is so good if the guard sees my flash light he says flash light 
 even though that might be scripted its still great AI. but the the that almost backed me away was 
 the vulgar language sometimes the guy would say S**T when i bring my broom stick in but still overall 
 F. E. A. R. is a great game and is a MUST-HAVE 
::::::

::::::
UserName: macn
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 26, 2007 2:45 pm PT
Review:  In 2005, the pc owners had the chance to play one of the best FPS in a long time, F. E. A. R. surprised 
 everyone with their amazing atmosphere, great sound and solid gameplay, now the 360 users have 
 the chance to play a great port with a bonus mission.
  
  When we talk about the graphics, i''tell you this, the game does not have mind-blowing graphics 
 but they are decently good, remember that is a port from a 2005 game, the particle effects are 
 the best you'll ever encounter in a game and the weapons are very well designed.
  
  Without a doubt, the best part from the game is the sound , you get involved in the creepy atmosphere 
 with the screaming of the people, the sound of the bullets and the explosions and some great in 
 game cutscenes.
  
  The single player campaign will take you between 8 and 10 hours and you also have a bonus mission, 
 which isn't much of a bonus because it will be over in a few minutes.
  
  The game also has it's multiplayer side, and a few gametypes such as Deathmatch, Team Deathmatch, 
 Survival, Capture the Flag, Slow -mo Capture the flag, and you gets some cool maps to play them 
 between ranked and player matches, altough i'ts a shame that you can't have an in game lobby when 
 the match ends (a la halo 2) .
  
  F. E. A. R. has some of the hardest achievements for the xbox 360, for example beating the campaign 
 without dying, using slow mo effects or playing 1000 multiplayer ranked matches are some really 
 hard and time consuming tests.
  
  It boils down to this: If you're looking for great game full of action and scary cutscenes with 
 some terrific gameplay and fun multiplayer, this game is for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: armyman_22
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jan 25, 2007 11:29 pm PT
Review:  I first saw FEAR when it debuted on the PC. It was great then and its great now. To put it out 
 there to me this is the second best single player FPS experience youll have right behind Half-Life 
 2. If you like FPS's and dont love this one then there is something wrong with you. The Gameplay 
 is not unlike other FPS's, although in some cases the controls can be overbearring. The action 
 is so intense, so furious, and so dynamic its erie. I have yet to see a more intelligent and evasive 
 enemy than the one founds here. They will yell to each other, jump over and under things, flank, 
 toss grenades, and pursue you to no end. The shooting mechanics are awesome. You will shoot and 
 when you hit the enemy you'll feel them go down. They never fall the same way.... ever! The rag 
 doll physics are in full effect here and wonderful. You can also slow down time in limited amounts 
 and this really gives you the feel of action as you fire and see each bullet cut through you foes. 
 Blood splatters, concrete flies and crumbles, bodies fall lifelessly and you'll love it. Lets talk 
 the setting. This game is quite unique in that it is erie rather than scary, spooky rather than 
 terrorfying. When you turn a corner you could be in a fire fight or turn another and see a spooky 
 litle girl or much worse. If you arent spooked at least one time in this game i'll eat my hat LOL. 
 I cant describe or think of a game that delivers enviornment and setting better than F. E. A. R. Moving 
 on to the sound department. So spooky youll not want to play this alone in surround sound. The 
 ammo flies and enemies yell to get down or move left. The sounds of the guns make you feel like 
 your really giving it to the enemy. Spooky voices loom as you roam the solitary buildings. Voice 
 recordings are heard on machines. The mood is set perfectly through sound in this game. The graphics 
 while being a year old are still fantastic. Blood splatters, bodies fly, youll see that spooky 
 little girl again and again and again along with other scary sites. Around every corner suprises 
 wait. Chairs move when bumped or shot. Window blinds move freely as you pass in and out of them. 
 Muzzle flashes are seen from the weapons. Blood drenched rooms and bodies lie around. You'll notice 
 enemies falling depending on how and where they are hit. Holes left in walls from shots fired. 
 The character models are top notch too. The Replay in this game is substantial where youll unlock 
 the game achievements, play online, and play through multiple difficulty levels. After romping 
 through the single player mode though theres not much left to do cause everything with the story 
 is predetermined. Its still a great game if only to keep playing the online multiplayer mode. Its 
 a great game a must rent but due to lack of single player run through you might not want to buy 
 it. Well thats it hoped this helped you out. When I say this game is great its no lie. In FEAR's 
 case its better late than never PEACE!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DrKill09
Rating: 5.2
Date: Jan 25, 2007 8:32 am PT
Review:  The pc version of FEAR is great. At the time the 360 version's release, I was unable to run FEAR 
 on my pc. I played the original at a friend's house, and was amazed! I anticipated the 360 version 
 so much, only to find it was heavily censored. Some bodies that were built into the level design 
 are covered in blood, just like the pc version, but when you shoot people, all you see are splashes. 
 There aren't any blood decals like in the pc version. It takes a lot of the realism and effect 
 out of the game. I guess that's what happens when the real developer (Monolith) is not involved 
 in the port.
  
  The 360 version looks about as good as the pc version on max settings, but without all the blood, 
 the game doesn't feel right. If you haven't played the pc version, and don't have one good enough 
 to run the original, the 360 version is a good alternative. Otherwise, don't waste your time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Trogeton
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 24, 2007 10:43 pm PT
Review:  When I first looked at this game I had a cold shoulder on it, but when I finally played it my thoughts 
 toward it just completely changed in a 180 degree spin, now this is one of the best 360 fps I have 
 ever played, I just had to own it, and now It is the only fps I play on the 360 at the time, also 
 the online is pretty crisp too I mean it is something you just have to try out.
  This is an eye popping game, has the most detailed cut scenes and the most addictive gameplay.. 
 great learning curve you will get use to this game pretty easily and that is what most gamers want... 
 and the game engine is on of the most unique Ive seen on a fps I have only seen on some third person 
 games like Max Pane, but this game is just superior than that game.. but anyways this is definitely 
 a must own game for any 360 owner for sure.
  
  Pick this one up please 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Flav333
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 21, 2007 7:36 am PT
Review:  FEAR was a amzing PC game and it is a amzing game on the xbox 360. Ther so much goiing on in this 
 game wen you ar in a fight white the enamy it unbeliveble ! somk is evry wer .. it jest amzing 
 I can't say more then amzing !. It fels like this game was made to be on the PC but it works good 
 white a controlar. Ther is a lot of panarolmar ! in this game ther dead bodys evry wer blood on 
 the walls it amzing ... You might pres rong butons in wen you ar in a fight white 3-4 soldiars 
 why becouse ther's so much going on i this game grenades evry wer ,and stuf like that , I pres 
 rong butons some times : (. Wot i like about FEAR is the SLOMO you have 10 sec slomo wer you cen 
 kill evry one it amzing. The mulriplayer is grate you have : Deathmatch ,Team Deathmatch , Capture 
 the Flag. Elimination and team Elimination via xbox live. Support for 16-player's online multiplayer 
 ensures plenty of FEAR some fraging. If you don't now wot's Elimination and team Elimination it: 
 wen yuo get one life so wen you die you are down for the count until the next round begins. the 
 past person standing wins. IN team Elimination it the same but it baset on team. FEAR is a grate 
 game if you have a 460 diden't play the PC version then go and buy it if you have the PC versin 
 don't buy it yuo onli have a 10=15 min bonu round in the 360 version. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: game_boy286
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jan 19, 2007 6:15 pm PT
Review:  WOW! This is one of the best FPS ive played its so much fun! The gameplay is great, The grafics 
 are wonderful! and sound is awsome this game has got wonderful sound theres that creepy little 
 girl that plays with your head. She laughs alot wich get i bit annoying but adds on and makes it 
 really interesting. The game is made to scare you it has horror factors to it wich just makes the 
 game all the better. I mysalf have played this game 40-100 hours but i havent beeten it........ 
 i have honestly spent most my time on xbox live. the xbox live is a load of fun see ontop of haveing 
 an intence single player story the game has a great maltiplayer!!! If you like FPS and dont get 
 scared and have little FEAR then this is the game for YOU!!! gameplay ----- 15/10 (ya its just that 
 good)
  
  graphics ------- 999999999/10 (the graphics are wonderful really add to makeing this a great game)
 
  
  sound ---------- 12/10 (without the high qualiy sound of the game there would be a bit less scare 
 factor wich really makes this a great game)
  
  value ----------- 20/10 (this is completly worth the $50 i paid for it!!!!!)
  
  excitment ----- 
 priceless (Theres no way to discribe how great this game is lol)
  
  P. S. if you like half life 2 you will like this the game feel similer but FEAR is 500% better the 
 half life ever was.
  
  Thank you for reading =) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IBLEEDBLUE33
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 2, 2009 9:41 am PT
Review:  This games single player kind of took me by surprise on how smart the AI reacted to what I was 
 doing. They would take cover and not just pop back up in a few seconds, they would actually change 
 there position and try to flank me at times. Then you have the slow mo button which I thought I 
 would never use but without it the game becomes very hard. There are eleven different levels and 
 each one is pretty straight forward with the story mainly being told through phone messages and 
 laptop messages. The only really intriguing part of the story is the creepy little girl. The ending 
 of the game will give you chill bumps but I felt they could have had more story than they did. 
 Also when I got to about the 8th or 9th level I began to become a little disinterested because 
 monotony began to sit in because of the gameplay or level designs not really changing that much. 
 But overall the campaign is quite fun for any fan of the FPS genre. The multiplayer could either 
 be a hit or a miss depending on your taste. It is very fast paced with plenty of modes to choose 
 from. I found it an enjoyable change of pace when I tired of my main multiplayer games. It is probably 
 not a multiplayer you will play everyday but it definitely gives the game longevity in the fact 
 that is in fun and there are plenty of achievements to be acquired through multiplayer as well 
 as the campaign. There is also an instant action mode for those that don't want to fool with any 
 kind of story. There are 4 instant action maps and you are given a score at the end that is updated 
 on xbox live leaderboards. A pretty neat little add on that gives the game more depth. Overall 
 with plenty of weapon variety, depth, action, and creepiness FEAR delivers a fun game that is worth 
 a look. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mackey12345
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 11, 2007 10:20 pm PT
Review:  It is a great game top to bottom, Immersive Single Player, and multiplayer, both follow the same 
 mechanics, that also work well into the actual gameplay.
  
  Graphics are stil extremely good, rendering could have been a bit better, but al the particle effects 
 and sprites make it look so realistic, and even the bump-maping is extremely good.
  
  Sound is great, but there are some missing sound effects for the dual sm-14 machine pistols, its 
 a real let down and something that will anger you later on.
  
  Multiplayer is my favourite or one of my favourite aspects of this game, its fast paced deathmatch, 
 and you can either melee or shoot at people, I always found that the shotgun was overpowering, 
 but if you skilled with melee combat, then you will be able to kill anybody, even if they are armed 
 with a rocket launcher. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kingamez
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 11, 2007 6:27 pm PT
Review:  Fear (the title says it all) puts you right in the middle of a horror mystery. Your job is to kill 
 your way through and complete missions to get through this game and survive. This game is entirely 
 in first-person which makes it more movie-like I guess, because you get to be the star. The game 
 is also pretty lengthly. Ive been playing this game almost nonstop for four days straight and I 
 havent even got a hint that I'm close to completing this. Now either I'm a slow gamer, or this 
 is one long game. Now when all is said and done, isn't what really matters is if a game is fun? 
 That's what fear exactly is, fun. You might be afraid or all this paranormal stuff (so am I) but 
 its good to face your fears. Things pop up out of nowhere and creepy things happen, it gets you 
 a little scared. But the best part is, once you are scared to death, loads of enemies come in with 
 one thing in mind: kill you. But don't worry! Duck behind a fallen down soda machine (that the 
 un-dead knocked over most likely) , stick part of your body out behind a wall and fire, or even 
 use slow motion! With tons of guns to use, there is just about a gun for every situation. Whether 
 the enemies dont notice you and you want to snipe them down, or you want to run right in the middle 
 of the action and fire like crazy, there will be a gun for you..... trust me.
  
  And should I mention the storyline and all this puzzle-solving involved? This game isnt just run 
 around and shoot anyone... theres a story involved. Theres a certain area you have to explore that 
 is being haunted by a ghostly girl who was left to die. Your job is to go deep into the area, destroy 
 all the enemies trying to stop you, and get important info to help your group solve some kind of 
 a mystery.
  
  Gameplay (10) - First-person, loads of guns, various enimies, shooting techniques, good storyline... should 
 I go on? This category without a doubt deserves a perfect 10.
  
  Graphics (9) - The graphics really live up to all the hype that Xbox360 looks more realistic than 
 ever . Animations are great, but some things look unrealistic which is why this gets just short 
 of a 10.
  
  Sound (9) - The sounds really make this game more creepier than it actually is. Its great, but sometimes 
 not too great and a bit too creepy, so it gets a 9.
  
  I find no point in doing value and tilt, so this is the end of my review! I hope you enjoyed it 
 and please recommend this!!
  
  --Kingamez -- 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hijij_ep
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 8, 2007 1:00 pm PT
Review:  As I have said in previous review (which you probably haven't read) , the perfect game to me is 
 one that you can get lost in and not find your way out. Almost like your trapped in a cube of enjoyment 
 and within that cube is the game world. You see hear , and yes, even smell the game world. Fear 
 did this for me. To be quite honest a great story line in a game such as this (half-life, halo, 
 DOOM) really enhances the feel of the game and allows you to be entranced by it. I could honestly 
 go on for an hour talking about how great this game is, and I have to, but Ill keep this review 
 short and simple. Graphics are second to none with chunks blowing out of the wall from firefights 
 in real time, sparks flying every which way (and if the gore option is turned on) body parts and 
 blood covering the interior of the room. The audio engineers in this game deserve a gold medal 
 for outstanding achievement in the field of perfection because, yes, the sound really helps the 
 game, if its the guns firing, bullets ricocheting, the freaky girl talking to you, Paxton Fettle 
 talking to you, the clone soldiers talking among themselves, and the music. I would like to go 
 into the music in more detail because it sets the perfect ambient mood for the game, and it responds 
 appropriately in horror scenes with the girl or Fettle.
  
  Game play was fun and most definitely HARD, the A. I. will hide in the least likely places and start 
 shooting as soon as you pop into sight, therefore it is recommended that you stay behind cover 
 and pick them off one by one, as rushing into an area unprotected will certainly result in your 
 demise. And as for online game play I don't have live yet, BUT SOON. Overall this game was amazing 
 to play and as I said before, yes it really does get me lost in the game with no key. I am in the 
 game when I play it. perfect ten out of ten 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jaresk
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jan 7, 2007 2:35 pm PT
Review:  During guns fight, The gameplay is solid. The guns feel right and the shotgun, unlike other games, 
 was my weapon of choice. The Slowmo also feels good, especially with thing flying everywhere, the 
 dust in the air and a really cool Rag Doll physic. The flashlight was pretty annoying. I would 
 walk in the dark and the flashlight would just go out and I had to wait for it to recharge. The 
 gameplay is good but the visual is the best thing in FEAR. It's the first and only game I've played 
 on this Gen of video games and the ways that the stuffs react to collision, the lighting effect 
 and the graphic was really good for this atmospheric First Person Shooter. Speaking of which, the 
 apparitions are really creepy. Every time things got quiet, too quiet, I would really stayed on 
 my toes and the music was chilling. FEAR might be the game that made jump more than any other game. 
 Sometimes, the story was kinda hard to follow, but it was still ok. The replay value is average. 
 When I finished it, I didn't wanted to play it anymore but the day after, I started it again. It's 
 a great game and it would be better if it be rented first. Personally, I wouldn't buy it but it 
 still recommended to try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheMuppetBaby0
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 6, 2007 6:50 pm PT
Review:  I first got F. E. A. R. for my PC for Christmas back in 2005, but unfortunately, my PC wouldn't run 
 it for some unknown reason (I had a powerful enough graphics chip...) . Luckily, I learned that 
 the very same game would be coming to the Xbox 360 console the following year.
  
  It was very well worth the wait, delivering the most intense, fast paced fire-fights you will see 
 in a shooter. The multiplayer is surprisingly addictive, and the Instant Action mode will have 
 you coming back for more.
  
  The Graphics: Pretty good. Not as good as Gears of War, but when there is shrapnel and debris all 
 over the place, the game still runs at a great framerate. The Gameplay: It takes about 10 minutes 
 to get used to, really depending on how much you play FPS's. It's relatively easy to use and teh 
 same as any other console FPS controls (for better or for worse) . The Sound: Top notch. The sound 
 of the guns is very pleasing and feels like you're firing a real military issue weapon. And nothing 
 beats the sound of bullets whizzing over your head or rounds impaling any type of surface in this 
 game. Replay Value: The campaign is addicting and surprisingly long, as you will periodicly experience 
 spooky psychological horror (meaning that weird ghost-type of characters are always screwing with 
 you) , and then shift back to the action with enemies with surprisingly good AI. Multiplayer is 
 just as good, delivering a variety of gametypes to keep you going. Then there's Instant Action, 
 which puts you in a specified location and you have to survive the onslaught of enemies, and your 
 scores will go on leaderboards on Xbox Live. And now for the Cons: You will always see the same 
 type of office/ warehouse enviornments. For me this wasn't an issue, but I know it is for alot 
 of people. Keep in mind that the multiplayer would probably get a little same-y after an hour or 
 2. Bottom Line: This is a great shooter, to whom I recommend to shooter fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chicken_123_pie
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 5, 2007 8:13 pm PT
Review:  I say original because the substance behind the whole infrastructure design and other ideas has 
 been thought of before. The tag clones is mine, just to let you know, I forgot they were actually 
 replicas, sorry. If you take a look at Condemned or Resident Evil, you can pretty much see this 
 game right there. However, the characters are not zombies or psychopath drug addicts living in 
 a subway. What I'm saying is that is only 20% of the game that has been copied. But in no way is 
 D1S the villain in this story. By that I mean they have not plagarised anything in anyway really. 
 The characters have never been thought of before, these are replicas telepathically controlled 
 by Paxton Fettel (Who I believe is the main character's brother. I think this because when you look 
 at his shadow they differ from the replicas but look exactly like the figure of Fettel himself. 
 I'm probably wrong) . D1S have created a pretty solid game that is worth playing. If it's just for 
 a scare or you want to blow something apart with the VK12 shotgun or disintegrate them with the 
 Type-7 particle, or anything else, it's a fun game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JKL06
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 4, 2007 11:17 pm PT
Review:  This is a definate buy for allthe 360 owners out there. Fear is an action packed horror game that 
 will scare the crap out of you, really. If you've ever played half life you'll notice some smiliar 
 techniques and action sequences shared between the games. The graphics are great the action is 
 tense and the storyline is interestingly captivating. A few things though, when i played it on 
 my 360 there where a few glitches and memory losses, so beware. That and it felt like it was kind 
 of rushed at the end, you didn't get lots of time to try the weapons at the end and it comes together 
 to quickly, play it and you'll see what i mean. Overall its definatly worth its price and its very 
 replayable. So get it now and blast your enemies in half with the shotgun :] 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zero_75
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 4, 2007 6:34 pm PT
Review:  When this came out on PC me and my brother thought it looked pretty sweet and we couldn't wait 
 till it came out on the 360. So it finally did and on Christmas morning we opened it, a little bit 
 later I put it in our 360 not quite knowing what to expect. And I wasn't ready for what I got.
 
  
  First off, this game is freaky, and everything in it just plays out perfectly and adds to the creepy 
 atmosphere. The graphics are awesome, this game looks incredible. Everything is so detailed, the people, the 
 enviroments. The lighting effects are sweet, everything is great, and it all works together to add 
 to the creepy feel of the game.
  
  The sound, another thing that is just insane. Everything just sounds right, the guns, the music, the 
 people. It all just comes together perfectly to scare the crap out of you. The only thing I can find 
 to complain about in this department is the language, I know you probably think I'm weird but I 
 think they could have done without alot of it.
  
  The gameplay is another great thing, I will admit it may be a little awkward at first and may take 
 a little getting used to but the control scheme works great and eventually seems second nature. This 
 is a little bit harder of a game than some other shooters out there, but thats allright, I like a 
 little challenge.
  
  Like I said earlier everything just seems to come together perfectly and make a truly great, and 
 really creepy game. I very highly recommend this game for people looking for a great FPS but I must 
 caution you about some of the gory content of the game, and the overall creepiness, but this is a 
 really great game that I believe you can spend hours upon hours with. And on a side note, it actually 
 freaked me out more the second time I started playing through it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TragicExcuse
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jan 4, 2007 5:34 pm PT
Review:  It had the potiental of being an amazing game, but its slow moving action during play and repetative 
 feel makes it not worth all the while. Most of the combat experinces are rather real, and the AIs 
 are unlike any other game due to the fact that the opponents you challenge have all the same capabilties 
 that you do (besides the super fast reflexes) . The storyline is great, unique and unlike anything 
 I have yet to come across. Its basically one of the only things that kept me playing the game for 
 as long as I did.
  
  But in other words, I wouldn't believe the hype. Its far from perfect.
  
  Happy gaming,
  
 Abigail-* 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigpimppapa
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 3, 2007 10:27 am PT
Review:  got XBOX 360 for Christmas and the only game I had was MotoGP 06 it came with the console. I wanted 
 GEARS OF WAR they was out, so i got FEAR. I was very happy I got this game it is worth the cash. 
 I set up mine traps and then sit back and enjoy the comments of the poor NOOB who was lured in. 
 Oh by the way they even have a NOOB achievement just for them, but really great game i dumped PS2 
 for ever I now am part of the great XBOX community. I love the labyrinth level it will confuse the 
 new players since it is almost like a maze. you can look at them running from windows that don't 
 break they get excited and start to shoot at you till them figure it out. And by that time its 
 to late someone came from behind the poor fool and capped him . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DS-man
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 29, 2007 5:14 am PT
Review:  GOOD- Decent graphics and Great special effects; pretty good voice acting, great music and sound 
 effects; Spooky and great story; easy strightforward; great slow mo
  
  BAD- Graphical backgrounds could;'ve been abit better; Enemies takes abit of rounds befor dieing
 
  
  GAMEPLAY:
  F. E. A. R Is a realy basic shooter with alittle twist, what makes this game abit different from other 
 Shooters is the creepy phonomenon supernatual exsperiance you'll comeacross. you see a little girl 
 that follows you around, somthimes you'll be walking down an hall and the next minute you'll be 
 in a pool of blood and everything will slow down, then you'll se the girl. its creepy, wired but 
 fun! during the game you'll pick up lots of different weapons, not much difference between them, 
 but they do fire differently, the basic thing about this game is that its all about running, shooting, 
 and hoping you dont get shot, but you can slow down time during the game, which can help you out 
 which'll help you dodge all the bullets, but you have a time limit. if your looking for basic shooter 
 with a twist, then you'll like it.
  
  GRAPHICS:
  Its got great graphics, the visuals are pretty decent and the framerate does not drop alot, but 
 you'll notice acouple of glitches, like walking on water and big shadows in unusuale places, the 
 backgrounds are pretty good, but they dont look 360 enough, dont get no wroung, its stil good.
 
  
  SOUND:
  The graphics are decent, just like the graphics, it has great parts like Sound effects, but they 
 could've been better in someplaces like voice acting and sound effects, there still great, but 
 not 360 enough, pretty hard to exsplain.
  
  OVERALL:
  Overall, F. E. A. R will stand as a great basic shooter with a twist, so theres no disliking this 
 game, specialy if your looking for somthing wired. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xantiriad
Rating: 6.7
Date: Jan 2, 2007 6:06 am PT
Review:  F. E. A. R (360) Micro Review
  
  The core gameplay follows the traditional FPS conventions complete with head bob (nauseating) , 
 traditional weapons, 30 second flashlight (come-on, this is becoming a daft clich&eacute;) , and 
 run+gun fighting. It all feels quite dated compared to the latest games like Gears of War and Rainbow 
 Six Vegas. However, the inclusion of bullet-time focus and the use of excellent particle &amp; 
 smoke effects do result in some stylish and spectacular gun fights.
  
  The graphics are a mixed bag. The textures and animation are mediocre with repetitive environments 
 and bland gun models/reloads. However, the smoke and particle effects are some of the best seen 
 on the platform. Plaster, wood, and objects vaporise to form clouds of obscuring smoke &amp; dust 
 that really add atmosphere to the action. The net result is a distinctly classic Xbox look and 
 feel but with some 360 turbo charging on the style.
  
  Sound is effectively used, in particular, to enhance the horror aspects of the game. However, answer 
 machines are used to move the plot and story along and the sound quality of these is quite poor 
 and often drowned out by either the mediocre sound track or other background noises/effects.
  
  F. E. A. R features a standard story mode that will probably last 10 hrs (like most FPS) and a 
 functional multiplayer. The achievements are particularly nasty, and require you to play through 
 the game multiple times whilst trying not to use certain skills or weapons  not very imaginative 
 really.
  
  I am not a fan of the horror genre and prefer my FPS to be more tactical than frenetic so F. E. A. R. 
 struggles to impress me. The story is interesting, and the gameplay more than adequate, but for 
 me the substance fails to match the ambition of the style. If you like FPS and enjoy creepy horror 
 films, like the Ring, then this is recommended purchase. For me, however, this is a game that is 
 best enjoyed as a rental. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EricDietrich
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jan 2, 2007 8:25 pm PT
Review:  Once again I must voice what I can only expect to be an extremely unpopular opinion, namely that 
 F. E. A. R. is a fairly overrated game. While the majority of reviewers has, quite rightly, praised 
 the game's artificial intelligence and slow motion gunplay, the many awkward design problems plaguing 
 this title make it, in my humble opinion, more of a chore to play than a joy.
  
  Firstly, the action and horror elements of the game are very poorly integrated, usually simply 
 alternating between one mode and the other. As most scary encounters in the game represent not 
 nearly the threat regular enemies do, these sections of F. E. A. R. are actually a great time to relax 
 and take a breather from the stressful action. The sound effects and image flashes soon become 
 predictable, and thus no longer scary.
  
  Speaking of predictable, the gameplay of F. E. A. R. is extremely repetitive. You'll basically fight 
 the same two or three types of clone or ASP soldier over and over again, in a series of environments 
 so unchanging and same-y, it often seems you are walking in circles. Though the levels are large, 
 you'll pass the same rooms and decorations many, many times. If it wasn't for the game's maddening 
 difficulty, it would be quite capable of lulling me to sleep.
  
  Speaking of difficulty: though F. E. A. R. is formidably challenging, if seems to offer ridiculously 
 little reward for one's efforts. Arduously playing through the gray, featureless factory levels 
 only unlocks more gray, featureless factory levels. The game's achievement point system is equally 
 vexing. Playing through the main campaign will get you -- at best -- seventy points. Most other 
 points can be unlocked only by performing ludicrous tasks like playing through the entire game 
 without dying, using only 500 rounds of ammo, or playing without power ups (or, conversely, using 
 ALL power ups) . As many of these requirements are contradictory, a player wishing to unlock them 
 all would have to play through the entire game a minimum of five times. Frankly, I'd rather have 
 a root canal five times to unlock these points.
  
  Much has been made of the game's problematic control scheme, but frankly, I am far more annoyed 
 by the sheer mediocrity of the graphics. Maybe I've just been spoiled by great looking games like 
 Gears of War or Call of Duty 3, but I found F. E. A. R.'s visuals, at best, passable. The characters 
 are blocky, gun models lack detail, textures are poorly defined close up and the general look of 
 the game is gray, murky and depressing. I know depressing is a look the developers consciously 
 choose, but even a run-down factory should be made to look more detailed and real.
  
  Last but not least, as the game's story is told entirely in mumbly phone messages and com link 
 conversations, many of which are almost completely drowned out by the sound effects, I found it 
 almost impossible to follow. Not that it makes any difference to the gameplay, mind you, but if 
 would have been nice to know what was going on, besides the basic premise of a clone army run amok.
 
  
  All in all, F. E. A. R. simply isn't the masterpiece it has been made out to be. If anything, it feels 
 like Half Life leftovers to me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PopSuperFly
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jan 1, 2007 2:57 pm PT
Review:  F. E. A. R. (First Encounter Assault and Recon) is a first-person close-quarters combat game for the 
 PC. The story begins when a paramilitary force infiltrates a multi-billion dollar aerospace compound, 
 and the government responds by sending in Special Forces. The group loses contact with the government 
 when an eerie signal interrupts radio communications -- and when that interference subsides moments 
 later, the team has been destroyed. That's where you come in. As part of a classified strike team 
 created to deal with threats no one else can handle, your mission is simple: eliminate the intruders 
 at any cost, determine the origin of the signal, and contain the potential crisis before it gets 
 out of control. This 360 version features brand new single player content, as well as brand new 
 multiplayer content created to fully utilize Xbox Live. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JL2K6
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 1, 2007 9:39 am PT
Review:  i wasnt sure what FEAR would be like on the xbox 360. it was spooky as hell and fun to play on 
 the computer, but i am more of a console person. i am pleased to say it has gotten BETTER in the 
 transition as far as playing. the graphics are awesome, truly incredible, but not to the extent 
 of Gears of war. The gameplay is incredible. with spookiness and gunplay that is very fine tuned. 
 the storyline is also incredible. however, the 360 version doesn't have subtitles, so to hear some 
 of the important stuff, you may need to strain your ears or turn up the volume. however, this will 
 not affect your overall experience while playing the game. there is a HUGE selection of weapons 
 to pick from and don't forget about the Bullet-time feature, which allows you to slow-mo kill your 
 enemies. the sounds are also great, with awesome guns to the creepy music and enemy screechings. 
 this is truly a great game and is not to be missed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jets06ya
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 31, 2006 1:04 am PT
Review:  When it comes down to the nitty gritty FEAR is a solid game. What really picks it up are its creepy 
 sound effects and great multiplayer. The game itself is a scary phycologicaly frightening marvel. 
 This stuff is quality scare tactics. The graphics are decent but leave you wanting a bit more creative 
 inviorments/player models. You often go through similar level and similar level without much difference. 
 The multiplayer in FEAR is also good. Large, large maps tend to get confusing but the action makes 
 up for it. In the end FEAR would get a stamp of approval from me and i would suggest renting it 
 for about 2 weeks and not buying it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mattman127
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 30, 2006 1:53 pm PT
Review:  I want to talk about recommendation for this game 1st because it highly depends how much you get 
 scared. Not a lot of games scare me, even Resident Evil 4 didn't keep me up at night but FEAR did. 
 It even gave me a few hellish nightmares so I will say this, PLAYER DISCRETION IS STRONGLY ADVISED. 
 The A-I is my 2nd topic and is the best you will find in the whole gaming univerce. They have acsess 
 to every wepon in the game. Their aim is right on and they comunicate with each other and trie 
 to find cover. They will even run away or charge depending on what kind of wepon you or they have 
 for example..... A guy witth a particle wepon will try to get away from you, find cover and even 
 try to find higher ground at the same time. Guys with shotguns will try to zig-zag between cover 
 to get close to you. So the 3rd thing that I will talk about is the gameplay witch is amazing. 
 This is because of the slow-mo ability you have when you start the game. This makes you think about 
 the lobby scene from The Matrix when a fire-fight breaks out and all the amazing particle efects 
 come to destroy your view of the enemy. The controls feel abit off for the first few minutes but 
 after awile this is not a problem. I don't have alot to say about the graphics but they are some 
 of the best graphical effects seen on the 360 (this is based on a regular deffinition tv) . The sound 
 isn't much different than awsomeness and cuck norris. Overall this is a great game and I highlly 
 recommend it , with the exeption of the above warning. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wtfandyk
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 30, 2006 12:04 pm PT
Review:  OVerall this is a very good game and one of the best shooters that I have played in a long time. 
 It takes a different approach to normal style that you see in shooters now a days.
  
  The graphics are not the most amazing that I have seen on the 360, but they are still pretty top 
 noch. The envirment to the game is very well done. It provides the creepyness that is needed for 
 the game. The gameplay is done very well and the game makes you feel that you are very involved 
 with it. What makes the gameplay so well is that you feel like you are in a fast paced shooter 
 with some amazing battles, but at the same time it is like you are watching a creepy movie that 
 is keeping you on the edge of your seat.
  
  Overall this is a great game and would reccomend this to anyone that likes FPS, unless of course 
 you played for the PC then I would not waste your time because the bonus misssion does not justify 
 you spending $60 just to play it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: acklawhunt
Rating: 8.7
Date: Dec 29, 2006 9:06 am PT
Review:  F. E. A. R. is a Action Packed/Horror game. If you love both of these elements this game is definitely 
 for you. For parts of the game it scares you with things. Such as a picture of a dead person will 
 pop up while you are walking or this creepy little girl that follows you will screw around with 
 you putting you in these terrifying environments. The game is VERY ADDICTIVE. Here is my review 
 of F. E. A. R.
  
  
  
  The Good: The bullet-time is very fun and can save you from dying while in combat. The graphics 
 are very nicely done. The environment puts you in these scary warehouses where things are bound 
 to happen. The sound for the game is simply brilliant.
  
  
  The Bad: The fact that you don't have a map will take you a while to discover where you should 
 be going. The gameplay and the environment does get kind of repetative. F. E. A. R. is a great game 
 but it may not be for you but once again if you do like both Action and Horror this game is for 
 you. Thus I give F. E. A. R. a 8.7 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DBR3MN3R
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 29, 2006 3:21 am PT
Review:  Gameplay wise the game is spectacular, the controls are flawless and you always feel like the character 
 you are playing is yours and they do what you say, the AI is good (though sometimes they do stupid 
 things)
  
  Graphics are awesome, I still get chills down my spine when I shotgun a guy to pieces in slow-mo.
 
  
  Sound... well, I have a really nice sound system so most games sound great to me.
  
  Easily worth the money you pay for it (actually I had to bum some cash of a friend of mine to pay 
 for the game, and I still haven't paid him back yet, I think it was worth it though) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rjwoer
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 28, 2006 10:50 am PT
Review:  You have to admire F. E. A. R.'s willingness to blur genres and its ability to maintain playability 
 while doing so. This game is a lot of fun to play, and the creepy elements (which I wanted more 
 of) are a wonderful compliment to the fast-paced, frenetic gun fights.
  
  The graphics are good but not amazing. That is to say, they don't stand up to some of the other 
 games on the 360. At times things in the environment -- walls, furniture, etc. -- seem too blocky. 
 But this can be easily overlooked, as the atmosphere of the game is excellent and some of the other 
 graphic elements stand out (particularly during gun fights) .
  
  The gun battles are tons of fun, and although some might consider them to be repetitious, they 
 certainly are not like any other game's. The ability to enter slo-mo, and the Matrix-esque effects 
 of the bullets tearing through the air, are unforgettable.
  
  The sound is very good, though I felt some of the levels could benefit from adjustment (knocking 
 over a pale or small piece of the environment results in a loud bang which seems disproportional) .
 
  
  The gameplay is solid, although some of the controls seem clunky and misplaced (it takes some time 
 to get used to the layout) . Mostly, this game is unlike any other and it manages to break ground 
 without alienating the shooter.
  
  Pace is a strength here too. The regular intervals of quiet exploration are a nice counterpoint 
 to the action, and build up a movie feel. It is nice to be able to explore now and then without 
 having to constantly battle foes. Then again, when you are ready to fire off some rounds the game 
 provides the chance to do so.
  
  I definitely recommend picking up this game if you like shooters, or dark , sci-fi like movies 
 or games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cabooserckr
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 27, 2006 4:49 pm PT
Review:  FEAR is a Survival/Horror First Person Shooter, and it's definately one of the best titles on the 
 Xbox 360. When they say SURVIVAL/Horror, they ain't kiddin'. FEAR is a game that rivals Gears of 
 War in terms of greatness. This game is not a push-over like Gears of War either. You will die. 
 You will get frustrated. You will not beat the Extreme difficulty. I haven't even beaten the game, 
 myself, but I'm almost done. This game takes time to beat, and it takes a good amount of skill, 
 as well. I won't really go in too deep with the story because I'm 99.5% sure that everyone who 
 has heard about this game knows about the evil Alma and I don't want to spoil anything. Your character 
 doesn't have a name and basically, you are sent in alone to try and find Paxton Fettel and eliminate 
 him. Fettel is not one to roll over and die and he doesn't want to stick around to get killed. 
 In terms of Multiplayer, it's substantial. I had more fun in this than Gears of War. A lot of the 
 people might suck, but it's definately a good experience. There's not much to talk about this area 
 other than it's just plain fun. FEAR is a wise choice for a game to buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ali99
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 27, 2006 3:26 pm PT
Review:  this game is real scary the game its not like resident evil and sillent hill its worst the min 
 that i saw that little girl i shut the tv so sierra can do perfect scary games and the grapihics 
 are good no real good sounds are good to but allat lowder and its whort it to buy it but if you 
 are a fried so dont buy it becuas you whont play it so if you areint afried so you most buy it!!!!! 
 oh warning if you have a heart problem so dont play this game like one see you soppos to go down 
 starirs then when you go down you see the girl staren right atcha and then see desipers then when 
 you go down and you turn left you see a zombie comin atcha it will be like that forever in the 
 game and you wont now it she guss sow up unssepect 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Valroadie
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 26, 2006 2:31 pm PT
Review:  This game is AMAZING. Not only are the graphics superb... but the gameplay is very addicting. It 
 keeps you on the edge of your seat... it made me jump numerouse times. It is none the less scary. 
 The sound is EXCELLENT. Especially when you go into slo-mo... the thing goes... beuwwwww and it's 
 awsome. The clones also say bad stuff about you.. so it gets you fired up to PWN them. The diffuculty 
 varies.. and thats GREAT. Good for all levels of skill-n00b to MASTER. The little girl is a jerk 
 in this game.. she SCARES THE LIVING SH! T out of me.. and fettel.... is a gay guy.
  
  all in all..
  it's a great FPS.
  
  cant wait for the sequel! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darksteel93
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 26, 2006 12:49 pm PT
Review:  This was one of the most emersive and suspenseful game I have played! The gameplay is great and 
 the bullet time is better than the matrix! the firefights are well placed and the the enemy AI 
 are great! the only complaints I have is that the maps become predictable and recycled, and that 
 there is no manual save. WTF? The game is scary, but not too scary. The game is maybe just a little 
 to easy. I loved the scenes were you get attacked by that little girl!
  
  
  don't hurt me! (hits head on floor) *smack* i'm FREE!!! ^^did 
 anybody understand that?^^ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ThaGrateOne
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 26, 2006 8:29 am PT
Review:  This game has some horror elements and some pretty good shooter visuals to put this game as one 
 of the better FPS for the XBOX 360. The game's graphics are not Gears Of War detailed, but they 
 are pretty good to cover a the looks a nice HDTV. The game controls are really tight and could 
 use a couple more analog controls to give it more of a feel... If you ever played a game on PC and 
 go to a console.... This game feels like it has to much to control with a console pad. Back to the 
 game itself... it is good game that sounds and looks nice. The multiplayer isn't to bad and should 
 be checked out if you like these kind of games. All in all this game is a solid buy if you haven't 
 played this game before. The game is fun and will keep you going for the holiday season! If you 
 see this game between 30 and 40 dollars.... it is a must pick up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JNU13
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 25, 2006 8:07 am PT
Review:  This game is awsome it is like one of the best games for 360!!!! It is so cool. You will love this 
 if your a horror fan or if you like creepy games than this is for you, Its alot better Than GRAW 
 in every way. If you like playing games that are fun like GOW or COD you will love this game because 
 its totally fresh. The controls are like Halos which makes this game what it is on the inside. 
 Its not Bloody or that gorey its just a strait up FPS with a nice spin. It makes the game very 
 fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Setho10
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 28, 2006 6:10 pm PT
Review:  FEAR has to be one of the hardest games to review for several reasons. For one, it's almost impossible 
 to describe the pure adrenaline rush of some of the game's most intense firefights, but also because 
 this is a game which is much greater than the sum of its parts. FEAR combines frenzied first-person-shooting 
 sequences with terrifying horror segments to create what must be one of the most nerve-racking 
 and atmospheric games ever. FEAR tells the story of a nameless agent of the First Encounter Assault 
 Recon team, an arm of the military that fights against paranormal enemies. In this case, the team 
 is going up against an army of cones, all controlled by a single super-soldier. Obviously there's 
 more to the story, and the game throws several twists at you which you almost certainly wont see 
 coming. On the downside, the narrative is told mostly through answering machines that you'll activate 
 as you walk through office buildings. Although maybe not the most effective method of storytelling, 
 it gets the job done. In addition there are some cool interactive cutscenes, which are designed 
 almost exclusively for the horror element.
  
  FEAR is scary. In fact it is probably the scariest game I have ever played. Between the firefights 
 you'll get to experience vast stretches of nothing. That is, you'll just walk through empty corridors 
 until you are sucked into some alternate reality which activates one of the aforementioned cutscenes. 
 On great example is early in the game when you drop down to a long white hallway. As you are walking, 
 the hall suddenly erupts into flame and the game goes into slow-motion. Fire surrounds you and 
 the game's freakish antagonist Alma rushes at you, flinging objects towards you with startling 
 ease. Due to your super-reflexes, which I'll discuss more later, you jump through the window just 
 as the entire building goes up in flames. Of course the main reason to play FEAR is the shooting, 
 and oh what shooting it is! FEAR is the epitome of what a shooter should be. The actual act of 
 firing in the game isn't all that complex. The weapons are all pretty standard, and you'll be fighting 
 pretty much the same enemy throughout the entire game. Sounds boring right? Well it may be until 
 the bullets start flying. Enemies in FEAR are smart, possibly the smartest in gaming history. When 
 you enter a room they will immediately open fire. Some will flank you while others pin you down. 
 If your'e in a nicely fortified position they'll flush you out. These are enemies that move and 
 act as a squad. They won't charge at you- they'll work to get around and to get a better angle. 
 Because of this, the battles in FEAR stay fun throughout. There are no real scripted fights. You 
 can play through the same battle twenty times and it will always be different.
  
  Speaking of time, you can slow it down in FEAR. Your nameless character happens to have super human 
 reflexes which allow him to get the jump on his enemies. And trust me, you'll need it to beat these 
 highly intelligent and ruthless super-soldiers. There is a limit to how much you can use your slow-mo 
 ability, but the bar charges pretty fast, and you can pick up boosters so that you can slow down 
 time for longer. In addition, you can pick up health boosters that will permanently increase you 
 maximum health; this too is almost required to get through the games tougher late levels. One standout 
 sequence occurs about midway through the game. You are walking through what seems like an abandoned 
 hallway when the wall to your left abruptly slides away to reveal a small army of soldiers all 
 chucking grenades at your horrified face. Within moments the hidden meeting room is a battleground. 
 Chairs are overturned, holes spatter the walls and tables and plants and computers lie in shambles. 
 You switch your reflexes into overdrive and disintegrate the soldiers in a puff of blood with your 
 all powerful shotgun. As the ammo runs dry you switch over to your second weapon (you can only 
 carry two) and finish off the remains. Once the enemy has been dealt with you turn the corner only 
 to be bombarded with another onslaught of grenades, thrown backwards across the hall and met with 
 the game over screen.
  
  FEAR makes use of a standard health system; you pick up health packs to regain health and armor 
 to- you guessed it- gain armor. The main difference here is that you can carry up to ten health 
 packs with you at any time, and use them as you see fit. This may not seem groundbreaking, but 
 when you reach a health pack at 100+ health and you're about to enter a major firefight, it is 
 indescribably helpful to be able to carry your packs with you. In the example above, it would have 
 been helpful to use a couple of health packs to up your health before turning that dreaded corner, 
 thus surviving the grenade barrage that awaited you. Once you decimate a battalion of cloned super 
 soldiers and save the world you have some other options available to you, some of which are exclusive 
 to the 360 version of the game. First off, there is a short bonus mission, but it isn't all that 
 exiting and can be beaten in under 15 minutes. More meaty is the instant action mode. Here you 
 can play through several levels sans the story and horror sequences. Once you beat a level your 
 score will be uploaded to an Xbox Live leaderboard. Finally, every single player option has multiple 
 difficulty levels and numerous achievements to get. Now I'm going to admit that I haven't played 
 the multiplayer yet, and I will do so and update this review at a later date. For now, know that 
 there is a multiplayer component to the game so if youre into that sort of thing then make sure 
 and test that out.
  
  If you haven't seen FEAR in action (i. e. only seen screenshots) then you may wonder at my graphics 
 score. And honestly, out of all the aspects of the game, graphics was the hardest to rate. For 
 one, the actual textures of the levels aren't all that great. And, more importantly, except for 
 the last couple, all of the levels look the same. Of course it doesn't help that since you are 
 fighting an army of clones that all your enemies also look identical. So graphics in the game really 
 boil down to going through the same levels over and over fighting the same enemies. As I said above, 
 the nature of the firefights really makes the tension high regardless of the levels. Then you see 
 the game in motion, and it all changes. When you enter a firefight in FEAR it is incredible. The 
 entire room just erupts in a cloud of dust. Glass shatters everywhere, paper, chunks of wall, desks, 
 phones and pretty much everything that isn't nailed down to the floor flies all over the room. 
 It is impossible to describe how much this adds to the firefights and it is because of this that 
 I scored graphics so highly.
  
  If the graphics enhance the battle, the sound creates it. Weapons in FEAR may look pretty dull 
 but they sound just, in a word, powerful. When you are blasting your way through one of the games 
 levels it just sounds like you are in the middles of a massive war. Again, its impossible to describe 
 the sound of this game expect for by saying, if you were to ever enter a special ops force the 
 battles you went through would most likely sound something like FEAR. The voiceovers in the game 
 are well above par, and the enemies are talkative but not annoying. The sound is by far the highlight 
 of this package. FEAR is a great game. Without a doubt it has some major flaws, mostly the repetitive 
 nature of the environments and the enemies. But it would be a great disservice to the game to disregard 
 it merely because it doesn't look as great as Gears of War or Rainbow Six, because its shootouts 
 are in a league of their own when compared to any other shooter in existence. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yellosnolvr
Rating: 8.8
Date: May 26, 2007 11:54 pm PT
Review:  The true meaning of FEAR is the fright of something coming to get you. Day 1's version of it is 
 'Insane amount of fun and creepiness at the same time along with intensity to boot'. However, FEAR 
 doesn't go well with the community because of the same reasons DOOM 3 didn't go well with the community. 
 They are all litlle wussies who can't even play a video game without crapping their pants several 
 times before finishing the level. FEAR has some serious carnage-filled fun in it, but these people 
 are too bland to realise that a game isn't just about what Halo 2 is about. Multiplayer and a sword.
 
  FEAR actually has several Halo deminishing features. To start out with, amazing AI. Sure, Halo 
 AI is cool, yeah when you kill them and they shoot their gun when they fall to the ground as their 
 pitiful lives drain from their bodies. But FEAR's AI will aim to the broad side of the barn and 
 will either hit you the second time they shoot or the first. Not the fifth or the seventh. FEAR's 
 AI will also flank your location leaving you with one choice, don't miss. But surely the Halo AI 
 is better... WRONG. FEAR's AI will call out your position, the squad leaders will command their 
 troops to keep you on the edge of your feet. Like: Frag grenading you, flanking you, changing positions, 
 supress you, or just plain ol' bumrush you. This is no regular AI. This is advanced AI.
  Another feature is gameplay. The Halo gameplay is sluggish, sorta boring. The FEAR gameplay allows 
 you to into slow-mo for a short while and will also allow you to see the realisticness of guns 
 firing in your face and particles flying all over the place. The gameplay will also let you have 
 some awesome fun when your buddy comes over, just crawling in a vent and.... OH! There's Alma crawling 
 towards you, but she just disappears in a cloud of smoke. You'll also see people's figures through 
 the crack of a door, but you open it and there you will see... nothing. The gameplay of FEAR is 
 something other games want to follow in.
  I'll give you one more feature before I conclude the greatness of the features and tell you how 
 this game measures up to other games.
  This feature is the graphics: The particles of pebbles, sparks, shells, and other things come to 
 life. The ripple-effect of the bullets in the air while in slow-mo. The simplicity of art on the 
 wall, but truely an experience when the bricks are 3D textures. The facial muscles of your unmasked 
 allies. The explosions, gunfire, environment, walls, doors, ceiling, floors, background, glass 
 shattering; FEAR adds a new dimension to graphical structures on games. FEAR also looks amazing 
 on high-end PCs. FEAR looks amazing on any platform. And one thing I have to say, the framerate 
 never lags. The Frames per second could go up nearly 60+ on the 360 version.
  How exactly do I think FEAR measures up to other FPSs. Well, here's just a basic rundown. IT's 
 a chart and the winner of the FEAR vs. [Game] .
  FEAR vs. DOOM 3= FEAR; FEAR vs. Halo 2= FEAR; FEAR vs. Half-life 2= Half-life 2 (close but no cigar) ; 
 FEAR vs. Gears of War= FEAR; FEAR vs. Quake 4= FEAR; FEAR vs. GRAW= CLOSE but FEAR; and finally- 
 FEAR vs. PDZ.... LOL FEAR 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cloud878
Rating: 8.1
Date: Dec 22, 2006 11:28 am PT
Review:  FEAR was a big hit on the PC... everyone knows it. It was fantastic. Now you can relive this amazing 
 experience on your 360 for a good price ($45) . The game is freaky... not scary. It freaks you out 
 but doesn't scare you. Maybe because the things that happen aren't scary... they're just plain 
 wierd. Random voices, pools of blood, creepy images, they're all here. The game has the story but 
 the main question... does it have the gameplay. Well I have mixed feelings about the gameplay. 
 Its great gunning down all of the enemys but it needs more. The game needs more stealth elements. 
 Sure you can crouch, hide, ect... but it needs more. Maybe prone? When trying to do the stealth 
 elements it is kind of confusing. There is no button that just puts you behind a wall you have 
 to get right up to the wall and hope it hides you by itself. I havn't yet tried online, but I will 
 and I hope its fun. Overall the games fun, and freaky, but it could be better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: redsam
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 20, 2006 1:32 pm PT
Review:  While I loved GOW, when I popped F. E. A. R. in, I got what I really wanted, smart AI, some challenging 
 fights and that FPS experience that I could not get with GOW. This is a game that may be overlooked 
 as it is a PC port, and the PC guys who played it before judge it a bit harder this time around. 
 For the 360, this is the best pure FPS I have played so far. The combination of some challenging 
 combat, some tough fighting maps, some classic puzzle play, a plethora of weapons (that for the 
 most part are well balanced) and some top notch graphics make for a great play. The horror overlay 
 is also a nice mood shaker, though not as much of this as I would have suspected, it sets up for 
 some great atmosphere to give you a nice break from at times intense fights, and some mystery to 
 the story.
  
  The story overall is fine, though is piecemeal via computers and phones, it is not key to the fun 
 of this game.
  
  A longer play and for me at least a bit more challenging than GOW, this is a game not to be overlooked 
 if you like a strong FPS. Until Halo 3 arrives, this may be the one that I replay the most.
  
  One caveat, I do not play a lot on Live and thus cannot attest to the strengths or weaknesses 
 of F. E. A. R. online.
  
  PASAFPS. Pure Adrenalyn Sick Ass First Person Shooter. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lilromeo0606
Rating: 7.9
Date: Dec 19, 2006 11:51 pm PT
Review:  F. E. A. R. is a game where you play as a unamed operative for an organizition that fighs paranormal 
 events. In this story you go through intervals fighting a maniac who can control armies with his 
 mind, and every now and then a creepy girl would pop up.
  
  I played this game from beginning to end on the two hardest diffulcuties and i can safely say that 
 this one of the best games i ever played. Because its a PC counterpart, the graphics were a little 
 outdated, but because i don't own an HDTV, i can't tell and simply don't care. I was so into the 
 action that was going on, the the graphics did bother me. Though there are some spots where it 
 would get a little choppy or lines would pop up that outline the characters body when i get to 
 close to a wall, the graphics are decent even though they don't live up to the 360 standards. This 
 game plays on psychological horror very well. The creepy girl that pops up was well done. I have 
 a surround sound, so this game was very creepy to play. The firefights are very intense and with 
 SloMo feature, its adds a whole new experience to the game. Though this bullet time as you can 
 also call it, was first introduced in Max Payne, it will never get old. In fact, because of SloMo, 
 this game tipped the scale of being a great game. As far as the controls... i have read many reviews 
 indicating that the controls were very clunky, but it didn't take me long to adapt to them. The 
 only downfall i see with it is that when your holding duel weapons, the left trigger throws a grenade 
 instead of firing the left weapon, so instead pressing the right trigger fires both guns. Even 
 though it would have made the game a little more fun, it didn't throw me off a whole lot, and it 
 was actually quite easier to play the game like this, that i can focus more on throwing grenades 
 than pressing both triggers, though in the future, it would good to see more games that have that 
 double trigger feature. F. E. A. R., in all its substance is a great game, that has new aspect of 
 controls that i found quite easy to use, great gameplay as far as SloMo goes, and an okay, but 
 overrated story. Though i have never tried multiplayer, i can tell by other reviews that its somewhat 
 strong, but in a way tacked on. Compared to the PC counterpart, it kills the 360 version because 
 the graphics are actually better to look on the PC then the 360 because of how dated they are. 
 This is a fun game that everyone should at least rent and give it a try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jai_hawk
Rating: 8.9
Date: Dec 18, 2006 1:07 pm PT
Review:  GAMEPLAY:
  F. E. A. R was fun in many ways. everything about it was awesome, whether you were getting creeped 
 out by a little girl or putting 50 rounds in a soldier it's just non stop fun! The slowmo was also 
 something i haven't seen for a while, I played it in Max Payne, and really loved it, so when it 
 came to a FPS- I was very happy! Also, with a wide selection of guns, it's easy taking down enemies. 
 And the burst fire rocket launcher is defiinitly something i've never seen before, which is also 
 fun! The multiplayer is pretty good. it's basicly like other fps multiplayers, there is deathmatch 
 and Capture the flag. But still is pretty good. And also what's different, karate. You don't need 
 guns, just your karate skills!
  GRAPHICS:
  The graphics aren't the best in F. E. A. R, but they still don't look to bad. The slow motion fading 
 also looked sweet when you running around shooting people up. And the lighting is very good, they 
 really make you feal scared with some of the lighting, when lights get knocked around making you 
 feal a ghost is near by. The game is a very good looking game.
  SOUND:
  The sounds in this music are very creepy. And when something happens the music really is the stuff 
 that makes you get scared. The gun sounds aren't that great, very unrealistic. But never-the-less 
 still did the job at making them feal real.
  VALUE:
  This game is worth every dollar! I would recommend you buy this game, it's just fun from front 
 to back. It was a great game! I give it 8.9/10 and suggest you buy it, not rent it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bobbyh15
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 15, 2007 9:53 pm PT
Review:  F. e. a. r. is a very intense, scary, first person shooter. This is a port of a PC game that came 
 out in 2005. Just as the title implies, you are a member of a recon swat team and your mission 
 is to capture an escapee that has been devouring peoples faces and controls a group of clone soldiers. 
 Also there's a scary little girl that keeps messing with your mind and blows people up from the 
 inside. The little girl adds much to this psychologically terrifying story. The controls are like 
 most FP shooters, but there is a special ability to let you move faster and everyone else in slow 
 motion. There is twelve parts in the campaign, the AI of the clone soldiers is really smart, they 
 are hard to kill and they can out flank you. This game has plenty of present day weapon's like 
 assault guns and rifles. The graphics are pretty good, but not as good as Gears of War, there's 
 lots of blood and gore. It also looks cools when you're shooting someone in slo-mo. The environments 
 are good, but after awhile they can become repetitive. One cool realistic aspect is after you fire 
 the guns for a while you get tons of smoke. There's lots of spine tingling sound effects to make 
 you jump out of your chair. The guns have an authentic sound and you can even hear the shell casings 
 fall to the ground. There is also some good voice acting. The campaign is a little on the short 
 side, but because of the good enemy AI and the different difficulty settings gives it a lot of 
 replay value. Also there's some really good xbox live multiplayer up to 16 players. Game play runs 
 very smooth if you have a good connection. You have modes like death match or team death match. 
 Also there are modes that utilize the slo-mo feature that adds to the fun. Overall F. E. A. R. is 
 a very intense scary game for the 360. If your computer is not up to running the PC version, I 
 think the 360 version is just as good. I think this is a buy for the first person shooter fan. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jizohnrobertson
Rating: 8.6
Date: Dec 15, 2006 11:00 am PT
Review:  F. E. A. R. is a reiteration of a classic PC game that not only lives up to its predecessor, but also 
 lives up to its name. This title quite literally immerses the player in the unbelievably visceral 
 and terrifying world that is F. E. A. R. There were many times throughout this game that goose bumps 
 ran up and down my arms and neck from the shock of an in-game cut-scene of paranormal creatures 
 appearing out of nowhere to inflict damage upon me but instead felt the wrath of my submachine 
 gun. Anyone who has seen The Ring here in the U. S. will notice many similarities between this 
 games antagonist and the movie (however, those of us who have watched the Japanese counterpart 
 that actually inspired The Ring which is aptly named Ringu will see many more similarities) . 
 The antagonist is that of a small girl who I am not quite sure why she is out to get you, but nevertheless, 
 she will kill you if you let her get too close. The multiplayer facet of this game is top notch. 
 It runs extremely smooth online and although I have seen better looking graphics, these are not 
 anything to huff at. The game has a nice amount of polish in the graphical aspect, and the addition 
 of slo-motion is the best I have ever seen implemented in a game. Although I did notice several 
 glitches in the game (such as when I jumped on a laptop computer sitting on a table in an open 
 room and it literally warped me to a room upstairsI tried this several more times with similar 
 effects) , it did not take anything away from the overall experience. There are some gamers who 
 will not appreciate the story-driven plot and others who will not care for the same basic FPS style 
 game play with the addition of slo-mo, but many more gamers than not will have a blast getting 
 scared out of their seats while killing some bad guys. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MikeinSC2
Rating: 8.7
Date: Dec 14, 2006 7:35 pm PT
Review:  Having a computer that could not come remotely close to actually handling this game, my experience 
 with F. E. A. R for the 360 impressed me immensely. It is a terrific looking game that has a top-notch 
 ability to draw you into the story and provide a good --- if somewhat predictable --- sense of 
 sheer suspense. OK, since I loved this game, I'll start off with the flaws. The environments tend 
 to blend together. Not as badly as Condemned did, but it is hard to miss. You seem to be in abandoned 
 offices, warehouses, or abandoned factories A LOT. The design of the levels makes up for this flaw, 
 but some changes to the environments would have been excellent. Also all of the enemies tend --- 
 scratch that, they DO look completely identical. Them being clones explains it away, but it does 
 seem like a nice cop-out for the problem. There are only about 4 or 5 different types of enemies, 
 so you won't be floored by their appearances. The final boss is quite anti-climactic, which seems 
 to be a flaw with a lot of FPS (looks directly at Prey) . HOWEVER, the A. I is what you'll remember. 
 Using grenades to flush you out while other members of the group try to flush you out is great 
 A. I on the part of the computer foes. There cannot be enough praise for how solid the enemy A. I 
 in the single player mode is. True, it's not quite like facing people, but you are unlikely to 
 simply run and gun your way through the game. While the levels do look similar, they happen to 
 look terrific. The weapons are terrific and they just sound right and aiming, while not supremely 
 easy, just feels outstanding and is very responsive.
  
  The storyline is a bit convoluted, but it's an absolute blast to play through. At no point did 
 I remotely contemplate not finishing the game. This is a game that, I fear, will be lost in the 
 shuffle as it was launched right around the time Gears of War was launched. Shameful, as it is 
 a spectacular game and one that I recommend, without hestitation, to anybody. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kemicon
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 13, 2006 1:47 pm PT
Review:  If you have ever played an FPS game you've already seen most of what F. E. A. R has to offer. In a 
 nutshell it is about as unambitious a game as you can get. Everything presented here has been done 
 before and sometimes done better. That's not to say F. E. A. R is a bad game, it is actually rather 
 enjoyable and even has some true wow moments. Unfortunately the game feels a bit like it's dragging 
 because you will constantly fight the same handful of enemy types in blandly designed levels. Each 
 level is either a series of office cubicles, or industrial settings that seem like giant janitor 
 closets. Count how many times you see a janitors bucket for instance. The levels themselves offer 
 little incentive to play and you will be struck by deja vu throughout the experience. Fortunately 
 even though there are very few enemy types, some of them, like the mechs and the soldiers that 
 can turn invisible, are quite memorable. Sadly you only fight these enemies on a few occasions.
 
  
  The whole experience should only take about ten hours to complete and overall it is nicely challenging. 
 One of the best things about the game is that it uses ammo and energy packs instead of the Halo 
 type system. In a nice touch there are a few moments that are likely to make you jump. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: robertruchotzke
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 13, 2006 12:02 pm PT
Review:  A lot of people knock down this game for its story which I actually thought was good and kept me 
 on the edge cause that little girl freaked me out. The AI in the game is great they know what they 
 are doing and what their squad members are doing. It makes you come at the game with a more strategic 
 approach. While the game can at times get a little predictable with the checkpoints and little 
 girl freak out moments. The game still delivers with a great story and great gameplay. I would 
 say that the graphics could have been better but they were still good. The achievements are not 
 good either very difficult to obtain but then again im not asking for any college hoops achievements 
 that are just a joke. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jimi_man
Rating: 8.9
Date: Dec 13, 2006 3:00 am PT
Review:  BOOM!, An explostion rocks off straight infront of me blowing 3 boxes and a shelf over on the floor, 
 with dust spurting out everywhere. I quickly turn left i see 2 Replicas firing madly at me. I pull 
 out my shot gun, 2 shells left, i now know what to do.
  
  I go into slow mo and watch the mind blowing effects as i shoot my gun at this heavily trained 
 soldiers watching guts go everywhere. Amazingly i shot an explosive barrel which ment i had 1 shell 
 left. I continue forward.
  
  ^
  
  This is just a taste of F. E. A. R, what you should expect going through this wonderful game. Not 
 only are is action tenseafying but the scare filled horrors that await you! It truly is scary (well 
 for me, and i usually never get scared in movies and games alike) Not only is the gameplay good 
 but the graphics are fantastic! slow mo effects mixed with top notch particles and light = One 
 of a Kind. The AI is fantastic, they will react to your movements, they'll knock over shelfs to 
 block your advancement, retreat when injured, even flank your ass when you least expect it. The 
 sound in this is immersive, hearing the loud boom of the shotgun or the hugh bang for grenades, 
 just about everything sounds amazing. Some of the ingame music weren't the best it could, but does 
 make the atmosphere creepy.
  
  The multiplayer is fantastic, it has hardly any bad lag, even with 16 players, a good array of 
 multiplayer game modes (even includes Slo Mo game variants) and there are plenty of weapons to 
 shoot your mates with. Only if more people played it! theres not a hugh amount of people but still 
 enough to get a 8 player game.
  
  So, i reccomend this to those who absolutley love action horror games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: felix2407
Rating: 6.6
Date: Dec 12, 2006 7:28 am PT
Review:  F. E. A. R while an awesome game on the PC falls short on the Xbox 360.
  
  I must admit I rented this game after playing Gears of War, and while difficult not to compare 
 the two I will do my best to tell you why this is a rental.
  
  Gameplay - Interesting at first, but tended to repeat too much. I got tired of sewers and warehouses. 
 Also hearing the chatter from the enemies wasn't that realistic. I knew when the saw me, when they 
 were throwing a grenade, and this made it easier to pick them off. I was ready to shut the game 
 off after
  an hour of playing.
  
  Graphics - I realize this game came out a while back, but I think there could have been more done. 
 This game relied heavily on atmosphere and I never got a real sense of the boo factor. The original 
 Resident Evil did a great job of creating a engaging atmosphere and that was 2 gaming generations 
 ago. Sound - I must touch again on the ability to hear the enemy's chatter on the radio. Perhaps 
 if you found one of their radios and had to find out what channel they were on it would have worked 
 better for me. Weapons and voice acting were above average.
  
  Value - Rental! Pick it up when the price drops to $9.99 and then it will look much more attractive.
 
  
  Reviewer's Tilt - Again, I just got done playing Gears of War. After playing that game all others 
 will have a tough time matching up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BigC43
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 12, 2006 5:48 am PT
Review:  The Good: Solid shooting action, slo-mo, very well done multiplayer, very creepy atmosphere, action 
 movie style cutscenes and action.
  
  The Bad: Graphics appear slightly dated, little girl freaks you out!
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  First Encounter Assault Recon or F. E. A. R. is a military force who are called only when paranormal 
 activity is afoot. Think of them as Rainbow Six meets the Ghostbusters. You play as a new recruit 
 with one heck of a first day in front of him. You have to enter creepy, abandoned warehouses and 
 gun down opposing military forces as well as any ghosts in your way. This intence storyline and 
 solid gameplay is what makes F. E. A. R. what it is: one of the best FPS games on the Xbox 360, or 
 any platform for that matter. The biggest thing that makes F. E. A. R. so good is the very creepy 
 atmosphere the game has. You never know when you'll bump into a creepy cutscene or that little 
 girl who constantly terrorises you throughout the game. The guns of F. E. A. R. are realistic military 
 weapons, but using them in slow motion can make a deadly combination. The use of slo-mo and other 
 enhancements gives F. E. A. R. a more arcady feel, but doesn't ruin the atmosphere the game uses so 
 well. Like Resident Evil 4, F. E. A. R. is a game that will make you jump. It will make you feel afraid 
 to enter the next hallway for fear of what lerks inside. It is a scary game, but it's a ton of 
 fun. The visuals are impressive, but do appear to be a bit dated. This is a port of the PC shooter 
 from last year, but it still looks darn good. The destructable environments add a lot to the game's 
 action movie feel. The sound effects are flat out amazing and truely cinematic. They are what primarily 
 makes the atmosphere of F. E. A. R. so good. The achievement points are hard to comeby in F. E. A. R. 
 Most of them require you to play the multiplayer a lot, or not use enhancements throughout the 
 entire single player campaign. It's tough, but so is the game. Speaking of multiplayer, F. E. A. R. 
 has a very outstanding multiplayer mode as well. It keeps the atmosphere from the single player 
 game in-tact, while also delivering a fast and frantic fragfest. The capture the flag mode is especially 
 good in this game. It is pretty darn lag-free and is a blast to play.
  
  Overall, F. E. A. R. is an outstanding shooter filled with tons of action and fun.
  
  Gameplay: 
 Creepy atmosphere and cinematic cutscenes make make F. E. A. R. a truely movie-like action game.
 
  
  Graphics: They may be a bit dated, but F. E. A. R. still looks great even compared to other newer 
 shooters.
  
  Sound: The sound effects are flat out some of the best in any game.
  
  Value: You have to pay $60 for the Xbox 360 version, but it is well worth it.
  
  Final Thoughts: 
 Not that little girl again... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TRU-Halfrican
Rating: 8.6
Date: Dec 11, 2006 4:19 pm PT
Review:  When i bought this game it was between FEAR and NFSC. Being both a shooter fan and a NFS fan i 
 went with FEAR just for the hell of it. Well i am definately happy with my decision. The game is 
 awesome all around. In my opinion easily the best Multiplayer on the 360 thus far. The campaign 
 is fun as well, kinda creepy but if you manage to get through it its very fun tests and tests you 
 because each enemy as an individual AI so its different every time through. Plus the weapons are 
 great. I mean you have your basic assault rifle, the G2. But then you have the Type 7 Particle 
 gun with just melts enemies and if thats not good enough you have the HV Penetrator which is just 
 a bad ass nail gun. Whats better than crucifing your opponent. You can also blow limbs off with 
 the shot gun. FEAR is hands down a must have for any FPS fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wpardue777
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 11, 2006 10:04 am PT
Review:  I bought this game because the game sounded fun with all the horror and gore they put into it. 
 Also, for the multiplayer mode which allows up to 16 players.
  
  The single player mode is awesome and keeps you on your toes. Nothing dull there, though, if your 
 not into cut scenes, you might get a bit frustrated witht he time it takes to get through a map.
 
  
  The multiplayer mode needs some redoing. I don't like the fact that after you get done player in 
 a room with people, it doesn't allow you to stay with them. You have to go searching for another 
 room for folks. I think this would draw more people to play this game if they knew they could play 
 with their friends consistently.
  
  The game play is really not all that unique in multiplayer.. But it's still fun enough you'll look 
 past it's short comings. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrman43807
Rating: 8.9
Date: Dec 10, 2006 9:10 pm PT
Review:  FEAR is great. Yes, it is another port of a PC game that came out a while back, many people missed 
 it because it was too demanding of their computer. Now that its on the 360, many of those that 
 missed out before can enjoy its great graphics and physics, excellent online gaming, and spooky 
 single player story.
  
  Gameplay- The shooting in this game is some of the fastest, most exciting run and gunning I've 
 ever been a part of. It's almost like being in a fast paced action movie. Hit detection is great, 
 the death animations are cool, and its always fun to liquefy an enemy with a well-placed grenade. 
 The single player is a little short, but it is action-packed and interesting all the way (the story 
 is a little predictable, but thats not why I kept playing) . The AI is one of the smartest I've 
 ever seen in a game, turning over furniture to make cover, running away and calling for backup; 
 pretty much being just plain crafty. Online is fun, being just as fast-paced as the single player. 
 The achievements are a little lacking, as most of them ask that you replay through the entire game 
 again playing slightly differently (no slow-mo, no health boosters, etc.)
  
  Graphics- While not the best I've seen so far, these graphics are up to par with most other games 
 that are out now, with great textures and blood effects.
  
  Sound- This game is very creepy. It definitely sounds better hooked up to a surround sound system, 
 but even just through the TV it is pretty good.
  
  Value- The single player is a little short, but the online makes you want to keep coming back to 
 it.
  
  Reviewer's Tilt- I was very interested in this game from first being announced on the PC to playing 
 through the last level of the game. It always kept me on my toes, and played with my emotions over 
 and over (in a good way) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: quagmire555
Rating: 8.4
Date: Dec 10, 2006 5:12 pm PT
Review:  Positives: Great horrific scenes make you wonder what will happen next. Greta variety of weapons 
 from machine guns to machine pistols. Enemy a. i. is very tough which will make you plan out stradegies 
 for every firefight. Great darkness effects. Addictive multiplayer
  
  Negatives: Pretty much same p. c. game on xbox. Campaign is very short, very difficult or rather 
 impossible achievements, get's rather frustrating after a while.
  
  F. E. A. R. overall is a very creative and different type of shooting game. U can't just run out and 
 shoot everything in sight. U actually have to use ur mind and conserve ammo as the game goes on. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ravi_1900
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 9, 2006 3:13 pm PT
Review:  This is by far one of the best FPS on xbox360. It is presented in a way such that You feel like 
 You are the lead character of the game.
  Gameplay is great and immersive. You really feel like a paranormal soldier just like the game says. 
 There is no dull moment in the game. The gameplay is quite fast and a lot of enimies are thrown 
 on you but still the controls and environment is so interactive that the game is not hard. The 
 gameplay also features adrealine mod which is one of the best till now.
  Graphics: The graphics not the best on x360 but still is quite realistic. The effects of the game 
 are really superb and better side of the visuals. The Physics is one of the best till now. The 
 objects around you interact so unbelievibly realisticly.
  Sound is sharp and realistic.
  The game runs at pretty solid framerate and is better looking then its PC counterpart. The game 
 runs on settings, which is comparable to ultra highend computer. If you are going to get the game 
 the x360 version is definetly the way to go.
  One of the main feature of the game is the inside the movie look. Yes all the action and cutscenes 
 you see is in first person. While playing the game you feel like everything is personally interacting 
 to you.
  This is one of the must have title and shouldn' t be missed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aRE-you-AFraid
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 9, 2006 2:29 pm PT
Review:  This is the best game for the Xbox 360 to date. The atmosphere is intense, the action is fast paced 
 and exciting. The graphics are some of the best around, and the sound is probably the best feature. 
 The multiplayer, rivals that of HALO for replay value and intensity. IF YOU ARE AN XBOX 360 AND 
 DON'T HAVE FEAR, GO NOW AND BUY IT! I cannot even write a review long enough for how amazing this 
 game truly is. It is the best game for the 360, and in my opinion, has game of the year qualities. 
 My only complaints are the the waits for online games can take awhile. But compared to the waits 
 for a game in GEARS, it really isn't all that bad. Also, the game may freeze every once in a while. 
 Annoying, but not overcomeable. 9.4/10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lil_jay0507
Rating: 6
Date: Dec 8, 2006 1:35 pm PT
Review:  So, you pick up F. E. A. R. expecting to get a great shooter. Well, it's not that the game is a good 
 shooter, but it's the same thing over and over and over. Pros:
  Very good A. I.
  Shooting is fun at some points
  Graphics are pretty good
  OK storyline
  
  Cons:
  Same 
 thing happens everytime you walk into a different room
  Controls are poorly layed out
  Besides the little girl, the game is kind of boring
  No to little replay value (but I don't have 
 Xbox Live so I don't know about the mp)
  10$ higher than the PC version for no good reason
  
  I have already sold this game back to Gamestop. And if you have the demo, like me, and think 
 that it is great, like I did, don't be fooled. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stillereize
Rating: 6
Date: Dec 8, 2006 10:30 am PT
Review:  Gamespot keeps finding ways to delete my reviews of this game because I believe someone at Gamespot 
 has a prejudice for this game. It's horrible. I played it and I played it until I couldn't take 
 the loose controls, the horribly bland graphics of ultra-clean sewers and empty warehouse after 
 empty warehouse. Sure it has its creepy elements but the shooter element is like a house haunted 
 by Casper the Ghost. Basically, this is an economic decision. Is it worth the full price? No. Is 
 it worth the used price? No. Is it worth $20? Yes. You will find yourself disappointed in this 
 game as a shooter but somehow be amazed at its spooky ethereal elements. But if you want creepy, 
 buy Silent Hill or Fatal Frame. If you want a shooter, try Gears of War. The mechanics of this 
 game feels a lot like Perfect Dark Zero. Do not buy, rent. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spoogan
Rating: 6.1
Date: Dec 8, 2006 2:53 pm PT
Review:  You control the newest, un-named point man of a secret military task force called F. E. A. R (First 
 Encounter Assault Recon) which is called into an un-identified American city to stop a mad man 
 named Fettel Paxton who controls a dangerous army of cloned soldiers telepathically and apparently 
 likes to feast on people. However, as the game goes on your introduced to some weird girl named 
 Alma who blows stuff and from there the story just gets lost in the fighting.
  
  F. E. A. R is a first person shooter with elements of horror mixed into the gameplay. You'll find 
 yourself running around shooting enemies with a variety of guns which include a sub-machine gun, 
 a handgun, an assault rifle, rocket launchers, a particle gun that is just a big laser that disintegrates 
 your foes, and a few more. Ontop of the shooting you can also perform a few melee moves like a 
 jump kick, pistol whiping, a round house, and I think one more. Additionally you get grenades (duh) 
 and can carry up to 10 health packs.. Also, you can go into Slow-Mo mode which (if you couldn't 
 guess) slows everything down making fighting easier.. sounds great doesn't it?
  
  Well its not. For starters you can only hold three guns at a time, and at certain points in the 
 game if you pass up a rocket launcher then a little further down the line you'll be fighting a 
 robot that is basically invincible unless you had the rocket launcher. Secondly, Vivendi Games 
 did a TERRIBLE job of letting the gamer know that he/she is being shot - most of the time you'll 
 be getting blasted and will be completley oblivious to it until its either too late or you're almost 
 dead. Third on the list is how incredibly weak every gun is - you can literally empty a clip from 
 the G2A2 Assault Rifle into the head of a cloned enemy and he will stumble back and then begin 
 firing at you once more. Last but not least is F. E. A. R. disgusting control scheme which is basically 
 the reason for the learning curve.. its hard to describe but the controls just aren't right, feel 
 awkward, and are just downright hard to grasp. Halo fans will definitley have a hard time getting 
 used to them.
  
  Also you can do these Instant Action Maps where all you do is basically jump into a bunch of firefights 
 until you reach the end of the level. It has no connection to the actual story.
  Difficulty in this game is ridiculous. F. E. A. R. is quite possibly the hardest game for the X-Box 
 360 I have ever played. Enemies come in large quantities and at such un-expected times, add that 
 to the weak guns &amp; bad control layout, and you'll find yourself either dying numerous times, 
 re-loading certain checkpoints a lot, or simply blowing through your whole stash of healthpacks 
 in about one fight. However, I was impress with the AI in this game... enemy soldiers use cover 
 and real life tactics to take you down such as rushing you or flanking from all sides. It was cool 
 that much I can say.
  
  The graphics were a win-lose situation for this iteration of F. E. A. R. The overall enviroments and 
 character models or blocky, muddled, faded, dark, and just pretty much ugly. Its sad to say but 
 the 360 version was just a straight port from the PC, and back when this game first came out I 
 was blown away by the graphics, but now a days I'm not even slightly impressed. However, the little 
 things such as concrete exploding from bullets hitting it and clouds of debris and dust flying 
 up were awesome. Its just a shame the rest of the game wasn't like that.
  
  Online play is alright. There is your basic deathmatch, team deathmatch and capture-the-flag games 
 but then there is Slow Mo versions of those game types where (now I haven't played much of the 
 Slow Mo games so bear with me) I believe one person gets the juice and can use it willingly or 
 something like that. However, the annoying lack of being notified that you are being hit becomes 
 a burden and you'll find yourself dying before you even know you're being shot. There are about 
 5 or 6 maps to choose from and pretty much only 1 (the Campus level) is fun.
  
  There are a lot of achievements you can earn, some by playing the game and others by competing 
 online. Like I said, there are a lot but most of them are really only worth 5-15 points each. In 
 fact 2 or so of them don't even give you points.
  
  The sound effects are pretty good - the guns sound very powerful compared to what they actually 
 pack. Explosions sound good and so fourth. The voice acting is... okay at best. The music, when 
 there is some, is alright but definitley help to create the creepy atmosphere that this game was 
 trying to go for.
  
  That was the other thing I meant to mention. F. E. A. R isn't all that scary compared to what everyone 
 claims. I mean, every now and then you'll cross paths with Alma, who like I said, will start blowing 
 stuff up and killing everyone for really no reason.. then there are the random guys you'll see 
 walking slowly and when you get near them they fall to pieces. To make it blunt, F. E. A. R doesn't 
 instil fear like you think it would.
  
  Though this game may have been awesome on the PC, for the X360 this game is ultimatley lackluster 
 and truley doesn't deliver on any fronts that really count. Now I'm not saying that the shooting 
 portion isn't fun, but the difficulty of this game along with the other problems I stated REALLY 
 drag down the fun factor of this game. Overall, F. E. A. R for the X-Box 360 is a dissapointment to 
 me and only deserves a rent it first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xHxKxDx
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 6, 2006 11:10 am PT
Review:  With a name for a game like Fear , you should expect something scary - whether it actually be scary, 
 or a god-aweful attempt. This game really lives up to it's name. F. E. A. R features qualities possessed 
 by such games like Half Life 2 and Doom 3, but mixes them together to create a real badass game. 
 Before playing this, I read reviews people wrote saying they were so scared, they had to stop playing 
 it and I thought to myself either this game is very good or those people are just queers (It's 
 a little bit of both to tell you the truth) .
  
  I highly suggest playing this game, whether it be purchasing or renting it, just play it. I think 
 everyone should experience what F. E. A. R has to offer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sgt-slaughter61
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 5, 2006 11:40 am PT
Review:  F. E. A. R. (X360) is the exact same thing as F. E. A. R. for the pc but the graphics arnt as good and 
 that brings it down a little. But don't be so down because it still brings great gameplay and the 
 firefights are just as good. Once again you have slo-mo and u are working with the F. E. A. R. squad 
 of course but f. e. a. r. (X360) brings new styles of gameplay to xbox live which are real fun like 
 slo mo (dm) , slo mo (ctf) , slo mo (tdm) , deathmatch (dm) , team deathmatch, and capture the flag. There 
 are lots of different maps to pick from and you can play with up to 16 players, alothough it will 
 lag a bit depending on someones connection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: damnitcar
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 4, 2006 9:41 pm PT
Review:  I know i am not game expert but I know a good time when I have it. I played this game for about 
 2 weeks and was hooked from the get go. I started with the easy setting and it was challenging 
 enough to keep me excited threw out the game. There aren't too many games that I like much after 
 I finish them but this one really seems like a good time still. I haven't played anything other 
 than solo mode though but i will soon. I was a big fan of Rooster Teeth's P. A. N. I. C. S. which really 
 made this alot more fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XENOmorph00010
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 4, 2006 8:50 pm PT
Review:  Obscurity, isolation, apprehension and fear; all are attributes that compose games associated with 
 the horror genre. But containing these elements is one thing, actually utilizing them to create 
 that effect on the player is another. While there have been multiple games that have strived towards 
 achieving this sense of horror, only a select few have managed to keep their prey entangled with 
 a feeling of bondage. Last year high-end PC owners fell victim to one of the most suspenseful and 
 frightening games released in some time. The game was appropriately titled FEAR and it was no 
 small fact that the game realized every sense of the word. Now, the monster PC thrill-filled shooter 
 makes it way to the Xbox 360 and is now giving owners of the system the chance to truly experience 
 the meaning of fear.
  
  The game places you in the boots of a lone, dead-silent, nameless operative from the First Encounter 
 Assault Recon or FEAR, which is the actual reason behind the games title. Right off the bat youre 
 objective is demonstrated with such effect, that the game instantaneously sinks its teeth right 
 into your mind with a dose of terror. Youre objective throughout the course of the game is to 
 hunt down and neutralize an individual known as Paxton Fettel. Why Fettel is so significant is 
 because he has gained control of an armada of replica soldiers, not to mention having quite an 
 appetite for human flesh. In other words, the game starts with a very cat and mouse-like feeling. 
 But in due time the tables will feel turned as Fettel will periodically appear and disappear as 
 you attempt to eliminate him.
  
  To make matters worse, Fettel sends a ferocious and seemingly endless army of soldiers to exterminate 
 you. Not only that, but a strange little girl by the name of Alma starts showing up and arbitrarily 
 killing people. Thus begins the race for not only seeking Fettel but also discovering the secrets 
 behind Almas origin as you dig deeper and deeper into the games twisted story. While the games 
 plot may sound rather uninteresting at first, as you uncover more and more clues, youll realize 
 that FEARs story is unlike anything youve ever conceived. A big part of what makes not only FEARs 
 story but also the game itself intriguing is how its inspirations are present and implemented. 
 Youll notice similarities between FEAR and hit movies like The Sixth Sense with its unsettling 
 atmosphere and The Ring with just the presence of Alma. If theres anything that one could criticize 
 in FEARs story its that most of it unfolds over dull telephone messages and information received 
 from laptop downloads.
  
  How FEAR manages to create such an eerie and entrancing horror experience isnt by mere jump-scares, 
 but by producing an extraordinarily creepy atmosphere. Not only that, but the game executes its 
 disturbing and nerve-racking moments so well, that youll literally feel like youre trapped in 
 your worst nightmare. Just the feeling of suddenly descending into a room filled with blood and 
 horrific screaming or into a pit of fire with satanic ghosts attacking you is ineffably terrifying 
 to say the least. Moments like this that drag you right into the games sinister world of trepidation 
 are the least of what youll need to brave throughout the game.
  
  Despite the huge impact that the games horror-oriented moments leave, its the intense combat 
 that makes FEAR a truly engaging and ensnaring experience. Now, admittedly the game doesnt stray 
 too far from the conventional shooter gameplay-wise, but there are a few subtle alterations that 
 ultimately make a substantial difference. For instance, with the health packs-which contain fifty 
 points of health each-you can carry up to ten of them and use them when you so desire. Theres 
 also the games use of bullet-time which allows you to slow down time so you can get a leg up 
 on the enemy. While the slow motion techniques intended for maneuvering easier, youll actually 
 find yourself using it more to get a better aim on the enemy. Reason for this is because the game 
 is extremely fast-paced and its rather hard to hit an enemy without the assistance of slow motion
 
  
  Yet its just the speed and intensity of the action that occurs at once in the game that really 
 makes FEAR feel unlike any other. The game is what one could dub as a rollercoaster of thrills 
 as there are several seat-gripping moments in the single-player alone. But there are also those 
 tense horror moments in-between all the action that could be seen as a relief from all the action. 
 However, once you experience the sheer terror of these unsettling moments, youll be left feeling 
 like you have no way out. With a combination of viscerally intense action and nail-biting, suspense-filled 
 horror moments, FEAR will leave you breathless and struggling to turn away from your TV screen.
 
  
  Like practically any other shooter, FEARs key mode is its campaign mode, which clocks in at a 
 good ten to twelve hours upon completion. Outside of the games tense, extremely satisfying campaign, 
 theres an Instant Action mode and of course the Xbox Live online multiplayer. The Instant Action, 
 which is an added enticement for the Xbox 360 version basically allows you to get right into some 
 of the games most intense battles with a few twists. For one, youre restricted to only fifteen 
 minutes for each level and your enemies are significantly tougher than those in the campaign mode, 
 and theyre tough enough in the primary single-player.
  
  With Xbox Live, theres support for up to sixteen players in a single match. While the player limit 
 isnt that far from what a conventional shooter allows online, youll often find that eight to 
 ten players is ample enough to keep the firefights frantic. Aside from the player count, the way 
 FEAR plays and feels online is also what makes the game remain exciting. The games Quake-like 
 feel online is all that FEAR needs to make online matches not only insane but at times completely 
 unpredictable. There are some hitches with the online, which are primarily due to performance and 
 game construction. One of the most noticeable is that there are no post-game lobbies, so dont 
 expect to remain in the same lobby as your friends outside of actually playing the game. Another 
 is that the game is prone to some odd lag issues, especially whenever a player disconnects from 
 the match. The online mode runs fairly smooth most of the time, and although a patch isnt exactly 
 necessary, it would still deeply benefit the experience online.
  
  One of the many other attributes that helped FEAR stand out last year on the PC was the remarkable 
 technology that fueled the game. While this 360 port is essentially a year-old game, it still has 
 some impressive points and holds up surprisingly well despite its age. As far as comparisons for 
 the visuals, the Xbox 360 version looks almost exactly like the PC version running on a high-end 
 PC. Youre treated to all the great-looking details on both the locations and character models 
 in the game, not to mention the spectacular blood splatter effects. However, the game doesnt run 
 much smoother on the 360 than it did on the PC, but most of the technical issues have been smoothed 
 out in the porting process. Another flaw that the 360 version shares with the PC version is the 
 repetitive environments, which will more than likely result in some unnecessary back-tracking. 
 As a whole though, FEAR on the 360 looks and runs very good, and although some further enhancements 
 couldve helped, the game still maintains a relatively impressive appearance.
  
  Another incredibly high strong point in FEAR is the sound and audio. In regard to sound effects, 
 FEAR is in a class of its own. Each weapon in the game has its own distinct firing noise, and the 
 crisp, window-shredding sound of some of these weapons is what really makes them stand out. Other 
 effects such as breaking glass and explosions are equally impressive and only add to the already 
 mind-blowing audio. The musical score is what could be described as both artistically beautiful 
 and efficiently spine-chilling. There are some moments in which the score will leave you with an 
 almost awkward, soothing feel and others where itll hit you so well, that youll be petrified 
 over what youll encounter next. Its the skillful combination of an unbelievably impressive soundtrack 
 and a foreboding atmosphere that elevates FEAR to an incredible level in sound and audio. The voice-acting 
 is also quite strong and the dialogue, while mostly technical, is still very authentic and its 
 the voices behind certain characters that really make them quite convincing.
  
  FEAR already took shooters to new heights last year on the PC, and its every bit as ground-breaking 
 on the Xbox 360 as it was on the PC. While the 360 version does share most, if not all of the flaws 
 from the PC version, it still manages to keep all of the strengths intact as well. With a nerve-racking 
 single-player well worth playing over and over for the action alone, a decent online mode that 
 provides some replay value and a neat Instant Action mode added as in enticement, theres plenty 
 to find and like in FEAR. If youve already played FEAR on the PC and even own the game, theres 
 little reason for you to delve into the Xbox 360 version. However, if youre one of the many gamers 
 who missed out on FEAR and looked upon the PC owners who got experience it with much jealousy, 
 then youre going to find a truly stunning game in FEAR. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: StanleyHandyman
Rating: 8.3
Date: Dec 11, 2006 9:01 pm PT
Review:  F. E. A. R. was a great game for the PC. Now that some time has passed the game feels a little dated. 
 It's still a solid gamebut doesn't seem to have a home on the 360 as it did on the PC.
  
  Gameplay
  Good: Smart AI, very intesne shooting action
  Bad: Controls feel like the were from 
 a PC game, single player action becomes repetitive
  
  Graphics
  Good: Gunfire effects are still amazing as well as the damage left by the firefights, creepy enviroments
 
  Bad: Not much has changed since last years volume and looks aged
  
  Sound: Good: Terrific voice acting, and sound effects
  Bad: Bad guys lines get played out way 
 too much
  
  Value
  With an 8-10 hour story and a multiplayer mode which is extremely fun the replay value for the 
 game is moderatly high.
  
  Overall
  F. E. A. R. is a good intense shooter ,but seems to fall short of what was on the PC. If you must 
 buy this game than buy it, but if your choosing between shooters this one might not be the best 
 one. But if you've never played fear the game is at least worth a rental if not a buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lethal_NFS
Rating: 8.2
Date: Dec 4, 2006 7:03 am PT
Review:  Unfortunately for me I have a really nice PC. I have FEAR on my PC with everything maxed out and 
 it looks amazing! Because of this I felt that the 360 port really lacked in the graphics department. 
 I also noticed the controls seem a little tight. Sometimes making it hard to hit your target. But 
 there is some good in this game too. It still has that creepy feeling while you play and the action 
 is still intact. Its not the best FPS on the 360 but its definately not the worst. If you have 
 played this on the PC then you will have no need for this title, unless your after those achievements.
 
  
  Graphics - 8
  Graphics arent bad but I know the 360 can do better. Character models even look a little bland.
 
  
  Sound - 10
  Best part of the game is the sound. The creepy voices and sounds you hear really keep you on your 
 toes.
  
  Value - 8
  Of course it has a pretty good single player but you can also take this one online. Its not too 
 shabby either. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cedmln
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 3, 2006 6:27 pm PT
Review:  You know the deal...
  
  The good:
  
  The graphics may be a year old, but theres still good, the game is scary enough to make you jump 
 a bit, the gameplay is very good, good story, and long enough to satisfy you in the end...
  
  The bad: The game is hard, even on the lowest difficulty setting. You can get confused on where 
 you need to go often due to no map or indicators. Thats about it.
  
  The tilt:
  
  Its a great game that makes me glad that I finished it with a smile on my face, but I wouldn't 
 recomend it to those who can not handle the games difficulty. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jdknight21
Rating: 8.6
Date: Dec 2, 2006 8:45 pm PT
Review:  Set in a world created by the same team that brought you Condemned this horror themed shooter tries 
 to deliver to you what is also the name of the game. F. E. A. R. isn't anything revolutionary, and 
 we've seen the bullet time, or in this case slo-mo plenty. What takes this otherwise mediocre experience 
 and sets it apart from others in this genre is impressive AI when you play on the harder difficulties. 
 These guys use real military tactics and brings you a little closer to the edge of your seat. The 
 attempt to do this through the single player was through a good mix of techniques from lighting 
 to blood filled ceilings. It was a decent attempt, but for the horror genre it isn't the most memorable.
 
  The on-line component is a pure fragfest and people aren't usually coming to play the elimination 
 modes. Slo-mo adds a decent twist to the fare, but this one is all about fast paced high kill counts, 
 and most people prefer that, but I found myself moving on to other games and haven't really had 
 much desire to go back.
  The visuals are basically what you get from Condemned. They are decent, but for the 360, they seem 
 quite dated. Oddly enough, I thought the graphics and style of Condemned, the year older game looked 
 better and both came from the same engine.
  The controls on this game are right where you would expect them to be, and they are very solid.
 
  The sound is pretty good in the game, and they use it well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gingerdevil666
Rating: 7.2
Date: Dec 1, 2006 12:24 am PT
Review:  FEAR was the first shoot em up i have played on the Xbox360 and it wasn't bad at all. First the 
 bad stuff! The games lacks a difference in enemies, you seem to be endlessly fighting the same 
 soldier for 80% of the game. Which can make it a little boring at times. However when there is 
 a mix up of bad dudes to shoot at, the game does get better, from the flying tripod thingys, legless 
 ghosts from a wormhole, to the big machines that looked like it came from robocop. Other then that 
 the shortness and easiness of the game is abit annoying. But this really is my only problem with 
 FEAR other then that the weapons and intelligence of the A. I is very good. The storyline in and 
 strange cut scences of what looks like a mental hospital is nice break from hiding behind corners 
 and listening out for soldiers coming your way. The graphics were also very impressive and the 
 slow mo makes you feel like your dodging bullets in the matrix film, which is cool. All in all 
 a good game, and i do hope they make a follow on to this. It should be a good'en. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Belisarius118
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 29, 2006 10:00 pm PT
Review:  I was initially hesitant when I picked up my copy of FEAR, having beaten it already on the PC, 
 but I have to say, everything that made the game so enjoyable and disturbing at the same time have 
 transfered very well over to the 360.
  
  The unique style of gameplay, that is using the SlowMo is actually very simple to use on the 360 
 and has remained intact from PC version. The only real complaint I have for the game is that the 
 controls for leaning are totally useless on the d-pad. I never one leaned out in the game, and 
 I probably never will. Also the achievements can be kind of a drag, the second I realized I only 
 got five points PER interval which is about 2-3 chapters for you PC vets, I got pissed.
  
  Most people already know about FEAR's amazing sound and graphics, so I will try to be brief here, 
 most everything remained intact with the exception of the frame rate chugging a little when there 
 were more then ten enemies on screen. Other than that, the game truly speaks for itself, even if 
 you are a PC veteran like me, the game is still worth picking up, the multiplayer and instant action 
 still make things exciting well after the action gets old. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheKretinousQ
Rating: 8.3
Date: Nov 29, 2006 10:50 am PT
Review:  FEAR is one ripsnorter of an FPS, great graphics neatly presented in HD and a solid storyline. 
 Not something you see everyday on a first person shooter now is it?
  
  I don't want to reveal too much of the storyline but I will say this, it's f****** weird!
  
 
  Graphically wise nothing to shout about but some great lighting and texture effects and all look 
 great on a HDTV, however I find the sound a slight letdown as it is tinny and has no real oomph 
 with the likes of grenades. That could just be down to the fact I'm used to Call of Duty 3. Anyway 
 controls are a little odd to start off with and the sensitivity may need a few alterations for 
 some gamers. There is obviously the main campaign to wade through but in addition to this is instant 
 action and a reasonably good multiplayer element. Instant action is like a 15 minute blast out 
 on a map where you can upload your best scores to Xbox Live.
  
  FEAR is a good game and if you were considering buying it on the PC, get it on the 360 as there 
 is an extra mission and the multiplayer element doesn't need to be downloaded.
  
  Thanks for reading TKQ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sardax
Rating: 8.2
Date: Nov 26, 2006 8:27 am PT
Review:  It's realistic, although it has it's variations of surrealistic fear building up constantly... 
 And the surroundings look a bit like the normal XBOX-standards of graphics, so it didn't impress 
 me as such... But the overall of the game keeps you hooked up for a certain time.
  
  But the kill-ratio upon yourself is lovely... A few hits and you're dead... :-)
  
  The artificial 
 intelligence is upon rage, revenge is a sweet cake, but chocolate is the bomb in this case... It's 
 not a hell of a game but it will do to slow you down through these coming weeks.
  
  My report is done... My boyfriend is teasing me with the mouse... ;-) One bad point to have a big 
 open study... :)
  
  Greetz,
  
  Sardax alias Vantazzy 
::::::

::::::
UserName: --Magnum91 --
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 17, 2007 4:00 pm PT
Review:  F. E. A. R. for the Xbox 360 is a spectacular game that seamlessly combines all the elements of a 
 great horror flick with intense, pulse quickening action to make one of the best FPS on available 
 on the 360. Whether your aim is to crap your pants with fear, blow an enemy in half with a shotgun 
 in slo-mo, or play a frantic, intense game of CTF with friends, you need to check out F. E. A. R.
 
  
  Bad acronyms aside, F. E. A. R. (First Encounter Assault Recon) looks beautiful. Not in terms of textures 
 and lighting (which arn't bad either) , but rather in the flurry of bullet contrails, debris, blood, 
 and smoke which is kicked up in combat. Explosions create shockwaves that ripple through the air, 
 decimating anything that stands too close. It all makes you feel like you are right in the middle 
 of your own action movie.
  
  The outstanding enemy AI that F. E. A. R. for the PC was known for is back, and just as sharp as ever. 
 Replica forces will flank, retreat, and try to flush you out from behind cover, giving this game 
 excellent replay value. Often you will try to flank an enemy, only to find that they enemy has 
 beaten you to it. You really never have the same firefight twice. The sound effects in F. E. A. R. 
 are first-rate. Guns sound formidable, adding to the whole atmosphere. Enemies yell out commands, 
 expletives, and confused, paniced cries for help during these encounters. It's a really nice effect. 
 Instead of just smart enemies, we have smart, vocal enemies.
  
  It's not without it's bugs, however. It's not uncommon at all for the camera to pop out of the 
 character's head, revealing a quite ugly view. Not only that, but (in my game, at least) the fully 
 automatic pistol is completely silent when fired by enemies. These both distract you from enjoying 
 the great game.
  
  The campaign may be excellent, but the multiplayer over Xbox Live is the best part of F. E. A. R. 
 The intense, frantic action makes it one of the most addicting MP games since Halo 2. It also has 
 a good variety of gametypes, which will keep you coming back for a long time. In addition, the 
 online community is great.
  
  What little community there is, unfortuantly. At any given time, there are only a handful of servers 
 running. If you want to play during the day you will often have to start a server yourself.
  
  The biggest problem with the MP of F. E. A. R. is it's lack of a post-game lobby. This annoying 
 little fact combined with Microsoft's refusal to allow friends to play in ranked games detracts 
 from an otherwise excellent game. It's a seemingly huge oversight that could have easily been implemented. 
 Let's just keep our fingers crossed that they patch it.
  
  Overall, F. E. A. R. is a great combination of sheer horror and fast-paced, movie-like action that 
 any shooter or horror fan should definitly look into. Dim the lights, turn up the surround sound, 
 wait until after dark, and experience the true meaning of fear! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fatam
Rating: 8.3
Date: Nov 23, 2006 2:11 pm PT
Review:  The Good...
  
  - Can very well be one of the scariest games made.
  - Controls are pretty good for a PC port to console.
  - Very good battle systems.
  - Good variety 
 of weapons to come across.
  - Good character animations.
  - Graphics still hold up after being out a year.
  
  The Bad...
  - Multiplayer not very well 
 made.
  - AI is stupid in this game making it easy.
  - Stupid Achievements in this game.
  - Story could have been told better.
  - 'Bonus' level really ain't a bonus.
  
  I would recommend 
 this game to anyone who is in for a good scare in a game or just to anyone who is looking for a 
 good game to rent. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MyCatSmells
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 23, 2006 5:21 am PT
Review:  a little bit dissapointing out of the box - the starting level of the game is vastly different 
 to the level published in the online demo, so it initially seems a let down, but perseverer and 
 it's worth it.
  
  here are a few things you'll proboably think while playing it.
  
  not as scarey as criminal origins
  better combat than gears of war/call of duty
  poor multiplayer 
 (small levels, awkward weapon choice system)
  
  one thing you really need to do - turn the lights off, and the surround sound up to appreciate 
 the atmosphere of the game.
  
  hopefully new levels and improved multimplay should come out via xbox live addins and patches 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Phaz70
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 23, 2006 2:19 am PT
Review:  i was very excited to finely play this game on the 360 but what really shocked me was that the 
 graphics weren't set to at least high instead it looked like it minimum or low i was like wtf i 
 am very at dissapointed with monolith cause they might have rushed it for the holidays i mean come 
 on i think i could wait till maybe till summer for this game. i just hope they will work on F. E. A. R. 
 extraction point for the 360 and hope they will not rush that. but at least it loads very fast and 
 it sounds the same and theres a new weapons in it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Drunken_Master
Rating: 6.3
Date: Nov 22, 2006 3:54 pm PT
Review:  This game is decent but its definintly not a good buy for $60. The level design is so plain and 
 flat. However I liked the lighting effects and sound. The weapons are run of the mill -nothing 
 special here. Bullet time seems kinda pointless, at least to me anyway. It didnt seem to make much 
 of a difference. And is this game scary? No not at all, unless your scared of little girls lol.... it 
 lacks the surprises and detail -doesnt even compare to doom 3 Which I think is a much better and 
 enjoyable game.... The multiplayer has some sick lag.... and its pretty much run and gun.... maybe 
 I would have given this game a better score if I hadnt popped in Gears of War first..... (I bought 
 em both at the same time) ... I expected more from this one... For the 60 dollar price tag ---PLEASE 
 rent this one first - I wouldnt have felt so bad about buying it for around $30 or so... anyways 
 im off to the store right now lol -----to go trade it in........... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lagerfeldt1974
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 22, 2006 3:16 pm PT
Review:  VISUALS
  As far as I can see, the Xbox 360 version of FEAR is very close to the original PC graphics. That 
 means fairly good but not amazing. The bullet-time effect with the over-contrasting is pretty cool 
 though.
  
  AUDIO
  Some very nice effects and the score is above average. But why on earth hasn't the Dolby 5.1 mix 
 been checked by someone who actually cares about the voice-over - it's annoyingly low and almost 
 impossible to hear at times. When are we going to see (hear) real-time sidechain audio compression 
 processing in the games? Probably not until the Xbox 1024.
  
  GAME PLAY
  This is straight forward FPS territory, the only original thing being the slo-mo bullet time effect, 
 which isn't original at all of course. But it really doesn't matter I've seen all this a hundred 
 times, it's still great fun and the weapons are quite cool. FEAR sets itself up as more than an 
 FPS by using some gore and scare tactics, but if you've seen just one of the many new horror flicks 
 out there, you won't be very scared or surprised.
  
  MY PERSONAL EXPERIENCE
  I had a great time playing and completing FEAR. It's a little on the short side (about 9 hours) but 
 it still feels quite satisfying. More than the meager 6 hours it took completing Gears of War. 
 The atmosphere in the game is great and I felt very immersed, which made me dream of the game at 
 night. I love it when that happens.
  
  OVERALL
  Originally I got Call of Duty 3 but hated it and returned it the next day in favor of FEAR. I certainly 
 didn't regret that move. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jaguar36023
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 22, 2006 12:00 pm PT
Review:  This is a great game for the 360. I rented this game first and really like the campaign besides 
 the confusing story. The campaign is challenging and fun and the SlowMo is awesome. I decided to 
 buy this game when I started playing the Multiplayer. It is awesome in this game. Many gamemodes, 
 lots of weapons, and almost no ways to cheat. One big flaw is that there are no lobbies in the 
 multiplayer. You just join the room and play the game then you are back to the menu. But the gameplay 
 makes up for this. This game has good graphics gameplay and sound. Overall it is a great game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: waynekautz
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 21, 2006 11:53 am PT
Review:  F. E. A. R. has finally arrived for the 360 after a long wait for it's port from the PC. While one 
 of it's strengths is it's relatively unscathed port that also manages to be one of it's weaknesses. 
 It's still all about shooting samey enemies and don't let the small snippets of horror try to convince 
 you otherwise. Saying that, the shooting is actually quite good. Weapons cause a good bit of chaos 
 and tend to tear the environment up in an entertaining fashion. There's a good variety of them 
 and they all have a nice feel. From the shredding of the submachine gun to the powerful feel of 
 the fan favorite shotgun, all the guns are enjoyable in the own right with the possible exception 
 of the rocket launcher. For some reason even with its three round burst it still manages to feel 
 very underpowered. Minor complaint aside, the selection is fairly enjoyable. Moving on to the enemies 
 and level selection. Sadly both are fairly generic. With the exception of bad guy Paxton enemies 
 don't really have any variety. You'll be shooting the same enemies on the same levels for the remainder 
 of the game. The only level that manages to stand out is one of the final levels that has some 
 fairly impressive little graphical touches. Playing F. E. A. R. is a fairly easy affair when considering 
 the controls. While it feels a bit overcomplicated it still manages to retain a predictable setup 
 that most will adjust to in a short amount of play time. Lastly is the story. You play a character 
 that has faster than normal reflexes that allow you to slow time for short amounts of time. While 
 useful for evening the odds I have to say it feels a bit out of place at times. Especially considering 
 the way the game plays when your reflexes aren't active. Minor squabble aside the story simply 
 cannot support itself. Why does Paxton eat people? What really happened with the origin project? 
 Just what the hell is going on with alma? It doesn't really matter when you consider the point 
 of F. E. A. R. is to shoot things. All in all F. E. A. R. is a very entertaining game that could have 
 used some fine tuning. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darkmaycry
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 21, 2006 6:33 am PT
Review:  If you played the PC version, you'll find the Xbox 360 version almost exactly the same in terms 
 of content. If you didn't play the PC game, the challenge in describing F. E. A. R. is trying to avoid 
 any spoilers because this is definitely a game that you want to experience unspoiled. You play 
 as the newest member of the First Encounter Assault Recon, the military's top-secret task force 
 that is assigned to deal with paranormal situations. And the mission in F. E. A. R. certainly counts 
 as above and beyond the regular call of duty. As explained in the opening sequence, a military 
 commander, named Paxton Fettel, goes insane and takes over a secret army of cloned soldiers that 
 are telepathically linked to him. Fettel and the battalion of elite soldiers then go on a rampage 
 in a nondescript American city. F. E. A. R. works because it elevates first-person-shooter combat 
 to cinematic levels. Playing F. E. A. R. is like battling through a John Woo movie, because when firefights 
 occur in this game, they're downright glorious. Bullets tear chunks out of concrete and wood; blinding 
 clouds of dust and debris fill the air; bodies are torn apart or slump on the ground; and the deathly 
 silence of the aftermath contrasts so sharply with the sheer chaos that erupted only moments before. 
 Gunfights in F. E. A. R. just feel right. This is partly because the weapons you have in the game 
 feel the way weapons should -- powerful. You have the standard array of guns to play around with, 
 including a pistol, submachine gun, assault rifle, shotgun, and rocket launcher. There's also a 
 scoped, burst-firing rifle that's a dead ringer for the Master Chief's battle rifle in Halo 2; 
 an incredibly nasty particle weapon that sears the flesh off of opponents; and a few other special 
 toys. You've also got some special abilities at your disposal. For example, you can kill foes with 
 a swift dropkick or scissors kick, which is such an awesome move that even when you pull it off 
 in desperation (like when you've emptied a clip and don't have time to reload) , it still feels 
 incredibly cool. Yet, your most important ability is your ultrafast reflexes, which can be activated 
 in short bursts to create a sort of Matrix-like bullet time. Now, bullet time has been done to 
 death over the past few years, but the execution of bullet time in F. E. A. R. is still well done. 
 When you kick in the reflexes, everything else slows down, and you can see the vortexes in the 
 air created by bullets. You can activate this ability only in short bursts before it runs out. 
 Because it recharges at a decent rate, however, you can generally have it at your disposal in most 
 fights. This slow-motion ability is almost essential for surviving some of the tougher battles; 
 you can use it to whittle down the odds. With that said, we almost wish that it were a bit rarer 
 in the game because F. E. A. R. really comes alive when the firefights are shown in full speed, not 
 slow motion. Because the controls are a bit clumsy for a game that relies on split-second reactions, 
 all of this complexity comes at a price. Even near the end of the game, we still had problems where 
 we accidentally threw a grenade when we meant to go into bullet time, or we unnecessarily burned 
 through a health pack instead of activating the flashlight. (Unfortunately, F. E. A. R. still relies 
 on the overly hackneyed contrivance of having your elite military trooper equipped with a flashlight 
 that has a 30-second battery life.) Halo 2 veterans will most likely have trouble adapting because 
 the left trigger tosses a grenade in F. E. A. R., whereas most Halo veterans have been conditioned 
 to use the left trigger to fire whatever weapon is being wielded in the left hand. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: grenadepin88
Rating: 7.3
Date: Dec 5, 2006 8:05 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: Great action and effects. Enviroments are destructible and death animations are great, 
 but the weapons and everything besides the action is kind of boring. The story is not advanced 
 through cut scenes, but instead by listening to boring and barely audible phone messages and laptop 
 downloads. Also, a lot of times you walk through the same environments with too many instances 
 where nothing happens. A scary moment here and there, then a great action packed fight, then a 
 boring walk through offices and buildings that make you wonder the developers could have made such 
 a great action game, that's boring at the same time. Also, you never are teamed up with anybody 
 through any missions which doesn't make sense because the title implies this. Graphics: Really 
 good. Not as good as I thought they were going to be, but still really well done.
  
  Sound: Good audio with good voice acting with little to no music. Scary little girl audio. Value: 
 Multiplayer is good and instant action mode is fun and will keep you entertained for quite a while, 
 that is if you're not bored with it. Single player is about 10-12hrs. which is decent. Overall, 
 I was simply disappointed by this well reviewed game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lavalleema
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 20, 2006 10:24 am PT
Review:  Alright, so I'm giving this game a 9.9. I'm not a Gamespot employee so I can do that. My reasoning 
 behind this has nothing to do with graphics, or game mechanics, or production values. Instead I 
 gave this game a 9.9 because it's done something personally for me that not a ton of games have 
 done in a long time: Made me ignore all other things until I finished it.
  
  The game is fairly straightforward, to be sure, but the atmosphere says it all. You won't find 
 the always blowing stuff up formula here; instead you'll experience moments of extremely intense 
 battles followed by a half hour of wandering around. Don't get me wrong, that sounds like it would 
 be boring, but in F. E. A. R. it's actually an asset thanks to the pure creepiness of what you're 
 doing. You'll be walking along and catch a glimpse of Alma, the freaky Ring like chick out of the 
 corner of your eye, or walk into a waking nightmare for a few seconds, or hear things that just 
 aren't there. It's not a scary game, just like horror movies aren't scary either, but it creates 
 an atmosphere that you normally don't find in the FPS genre. It's probably important to note that 
 I'm not a huge FPS fan. I'm more of an RPG guy, I'm in it for the story. So yeah, if you're a FPS 
 hound, you'll still enjoy F. E. A. R., but it won't be a 10 on your list. But if you're more of a 
 casual FPS fan who would like something different that will suck you in, this is your game. I couldn't 
 put it down, and now that it's over, I still want to replay it. That's saying something. I haven't 
 played a game this good in the sense of what a good game is to me in forever. Rent it, borrow it, 
 buy it, whatever; but don't miss it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FireNunkin
Rating: 6.2
Date: Nov 20, 2006 8:40 am PT
Review:  i have been following this game ever since it came out on PC. i dont have a very powerful PC so 
 i wait almost a year for the xbox 360 version to come out. well its here now and its pretty lame. 
 there plenty of bad points in this game starting with the controls. they are very complex and not 
 easy to learn.
  next is the A I. in the hype they said the A I was awesome and would do all kinds of special things 
 to get you. well besides jumping though a few windows the A I is nothing we havent seen before. 
 they jst run for cover, you flank them and kill them, just like every other first person shooter 
 to date. although the enemies are a bit tough to kill and will take more than a few rounds to kill. 
 on a positive note the graphics and sound on this game are excellent. theweapons sounds are loud 
 and sound like real firearms. when you fire your weapon , bullets rip up the walls, and shred enemies 
 in a shower of blood. the fire fights in this game are very intense and fun to do. however the 
 problem with the fire fight are ther arent a whole lot of them. and there always over way to fast. the 
 bulk of this game is spent trying to build a spooky atmopsphere with doors slaming in front of 
 you, images of people disappering into a cloud of dust, and many other lame ideas that make this 
 seem like an episode of scare tactics rather than an intense FPS . overall if your planning on 
 buying this game, dont. its not worth 60 dollars of yoyr hard earned money. if want to play this, 
 i suggest you rent it first, and if you like it from there, then buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ruiz2k5
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 19, 2006 6:13 pm PT
Review:  For a videogame that came out in 2005 this videogame is one of the best for the 360. Not the best 
 but one of the best. The graphics are ok but you have to keep in mind this is a straight port from 
 the pc version. Dont get me wrong theyre good but compared to recent games they show the age of 
 the game. The game has tight controls by far one of the best controls in a videogame. The sound 
 is great and to me the highlight of the game is the enemy A. I. This is by far the smartest videogame 
 I have ever played. The enemy will knock over soda machines tip over tables and shelves for cover 
 from your gunfire and they will flank you. The story honestly I dont get to much. The reason is 
 because the story is told through messages left on an answering machine and I dont feel like waiting 
 around listening to an answering machine and I could be blasting the enemy or getting creeped out 
 by the little girl. This game has alot of frights its as creepy as the first fatal frame game. 
 The game plays with your mind but I wish it had alot more scare then it actually does. It is kinda 
 easy to get lost in this game as it doesnt have a map at all and some places where you have to 
 go are kinda wierd for a first person shooter, like jumping boxes to reach a roof. Its like the 
 game tries to be a platform game. But the MINOR flaws this game has is not enough to stop playing 
 the game. One more thing I wished for was an ingame save system but the save checkpoints are ok. 
 The bullet time in this game is done excellent better then any other game out there. Overall this 
 is a great game and worth picking up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IKKF
Rating: 8.4
Date: Nov 19, 2006 3:33 pm PT
Review:  Be afraid, very afraid. Yes, FEAR is here on the Xbox 360 and I'm going to give you the lo-down. 
 FEAR isn't totally scary, for at least people like me who don't pee their pants easily. There was 
 only really one part that freaked me out when I was climbing up the ladder and when I look up, 
 that freaky Asian girl is right in front of me, but that was pretty much it. The story isn't put 
 together very well. Sometimes you wonder, what the hell are we doing? What is our cause? To kill... 
 good enough for me! The multiplayer is fun, but you sometimes feel it was just thrown together. 
 More customization is needed when FEAR 2 comes out, maybe even the PC ported graphics, too! The 
 single player will send shivers down your spine, even when you first start. I wasn't scared, the 
 environment in the game made me... cold. I suggest this as a rent, but for you Horror-game lovers, 
 you might just want to play for keeps. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: subzero83
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 19, 2006 12:28 am PT
Review:  F. E. A. R. has finally come on the Xbox 360 and I enjoy this game. The story is about a paranormal 
 unit called the First Encounter Assault Recon who are investigating some creepy things going on 
 and going after some psycho freak who really eats up humans named Paxton Fettel. There is also 
 some weird appearances of a girl named Alma who somehow just keeps following you.
  
  The graphics look so amazing with great lighting effects, cool environment, and decent physics. 
 The audio is very well done including, voiceovers, sound effects, and even the phenomenal music. 
 The gameplay is greatly done and a little more improved including the new instant action mode, 
 the new weapons, and an additional mission about another F. E. AR. member.
  
  Some negatives I've found were some repetitive areas and some glitch where you are next to the 
 wall facing it, your weapon zoomed in, and while moving left or right along the wall you can see 
 another area through the wall and you can even shoot at the area which is totally and absolutely 
 ridiculous!
  
  With all that said, F. E. A. R. is one of the best first person shooters ever to be played on the 
 Xbox 360 yet and it's definitely a must buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: acdcrocks14
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 6, 2007 1:29 pm PT
Review:  Fear for the xbox 360 is a great game. Probably one of the best fps games for the 360. It's graphics 
 dont match gears of war's but they're sure great (but whos graphics match GOW's?) . its really creepy 
 (trust me.. youll have a WAY better time playing this at midnight with all the lights off) . This 
 game makes shooting guys with 100 bullets more than you need to kill them easy but makes a real 
 challenge when playing on the harder diffs. This game does a real good job of combining a tactical 
 style of fighting (hiding behind walls, flanking from behind etc.) with a run and gun shoot em' 
 up style of gameplay which is a really odd combo but it works out really well. although the atmospheres 
 and maps are very repetative they did pick a very good design to repeat. from the flashing lights, 
 to the boxes falling over behind you, to the occasional dead guy jumping out at you from a waist 
 deep pool of blood this game manages to give you a feeling of constant danger: no matter where 
 you go there will always be a squad of soldiers blasting away at you or a little girl running across 
 the screen (ive tried to blow her up, shoot her , kick her in the face, jump on her, and even the 
 ocasional de-particlizer and that **** annoying b**ch wont die!) . The multi player is just as fun 
 if not better than the single player over XBL. playing games like ctf or deathmatch can be so intense 
 that after you hit your 50th kill (if youre even good enough to) your hands will be shaking and 
 your heart will be punding in your chest. (BTW if anybody wats to challenge me in slowmo CTF my 
 gamercard is ACDCrocks14 (im currently #9 overall) ) But anyways if you have xbox live give the 
 demo a download and if you liked that the actual game is way better! and if you dont have XBL just 
 give it a rent. dont have 60$? just wait a month or 2 and get it for 10$ at a used game shop (i 
 think its well worth that.. even the 60$) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jarhead1990
Rating: 8.3
Date: Nov 18, 2006 6:10 pm PT
Review:  F. E. A. R on the 360 is a port form last years award wining FPS on the PC. The game is scary, Dark, 
 Brutal, Bloody and has overall great enemy A. I. Your enemys will duck for cover, roll out of the 
 way from grenades and try to flank you. Sometimes the A. I is so good you will swear you wer eplaying 
 against real people. Now the Graphics are stellar and the sound is top notch. Gunfire sounds really 
 cool and you can hear your enemys mkaing plans to flank or gang up on you. Altough the game has 
 now WOW thats amazing! moments like Halo or Half life 2. The games shootouts put other shooters 
 to shame. The shoot outs are very intense and realistic and you will see debree from walls exploding 
 around you and blood and stray bullets will be spraying everywhere. All this makes F. E. A. R and 
 very intense shooter. Another attribute that F. E. A. R has is the slow-mo trigger. You can slow down 
 everything in the game in a matter of pressing a button. And although this has been done before 
 in numerous game, F. E. A. R perfects it. Slow-mo can come in very handy when the game gets challenging. 
 The single player campaign will last you about 10 hours. But the game has a really coll intant 
 action mode which lets you replay the games biggest, most climatic firefights. Now where F. E. A. R 
 falls short is the online multi-player game feels very taked on and unpolished. It may be fun for 
 a game or two every now and then but its nothing deep enough to keep deditcated players coming 
 back. If you do not like FPS then look else where but if you want a intense, violent shooter with 
 memorable firefights, this is the game for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rcwadsworth
Rating: 8.6
Date: Nov 18, 2006 1:43 am PT
Review:  FEAR enters the 360 forum to find itself out classed already by other new shooters just coming 
 on the market
  
  There is nothing really new here but from the story line something like Max Payne crossed with 
 the Grudge which is engrossing enough
  
  Dont get me wrong FEAR is a very good shooter a very solid game good controls good sound parts 
 make you jump out of your skin and I do enjoy playing FEAR but its 3 months too late for the 360!!! 
 I mean with COD3 and GOW out now FEAR wont make number one it get to number 3\4 in the sells charts 
 as I reckon it will do battle with RB6 for that 3rd spot. I could be wrong but doubt it. If the 
 game came out 3 months ago this would have gone in at number 1 and stayed there for a few weeks
 
  
  FEAR is a very good scary FPS there I can find little fault with the game and is a fun game to 
 play but the fact is it does not stack up against GEARS OF WAR of Call of duty 3 
::::::

::::::
UserName: abattoir_blues
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 22, 2007 4:40 pm PT
Review:  F. E. A. R for the xbox 360 is one of the best games you will play on the xbox 360 and one of the 
 most intense game you will play all year. F. E. A. R is a port of the hit pc shooter that came out 
 last year and is a faithful and maybe even better version. F. E. A. R combines intense fps action and 
 moments of japensese horror. There really is not that much difference between this 360 version and 
 the pc version except for a instant action mode and a extra bonus mission, the instant action is 
 really the only thing that I found interesting, the bonus mission puts you in the role of a regular 
 F. E. A. R member with no slo mo abilities. In the instant action it puts you in a intense situation 
 from single player and you have to kill as many enemies as you can in a matter of time then you 
 can post your score on xbox live which is a nice touch. One of the bad things about the pc version 
 was the it was a system hog and you needed the latest and greatest in pc hardware and at times 
 even with the latest specs you still experience drop in frame rate in really intense situations. 
 Well when day 1 had a year to fix all of those problems they did, there pretty much is no frame 
 rate issues throughout the single player and it really shows of the xbox 360's power also day 1 
 added in hdr lighting ,so the 360 not only runs better, it also looks better. The single player 
 campaign puts you in the role of a rookie in the special force unit known as F. E. A. R, your mission 
 is to hunt down a cannibalistic psychopath known as Paxton Feddel . Along the way you will discover 
 that you are a god among men as Paxton refers and that you have godly abiltities such as advanced 
 and I mean advanced reflexes. Paxton feddel summons up a clone army and you will be the one man 
 army that will take them down. Its really no surprise that with a clone army that seeing the same 
 enemy over and over again will happen alot ( wow what a suprise) . Also the environments pretty much 
 look the same the whole game all taking place in a urban office type area. There will still be enough 
 action and different enemies to keep you intrigued the whole campaign and even maybe through another 
 play through or two. The game does take alot of its inspiration from japanese cinema such as the 
 ring and pulse, there is even a little girl that is named alma and is pretty much identical to 
 the little girl in the ring, these creepy moments really add in intensity to the game and keep 
 you at the edge of you seat throughout. The achievements in the game are pretty hard, to give you 
 in example one of the achievements is to go through the campaign without dying so that about says 
 it all about achievements. F. E. A. R.'s multiplayer really is the is the core to the game's replay 
 value, there is all the standard multiplayer gametypes such as team deathmatch, deathmatch, capture 
 the flag and elimination, all of that is realy cool but then when you add in the slo mo and then 
 you get excellence and it is made even better by lagfree environments and this is the reason why 
 you will have F. E. A. R in your 360 disc drive often for a long period of time. Final thoughts:
 
  F. E. A. R is a great game that should be in every fps fans library. F. E. A. R. is not getting that 
 much attention people choose to get more excited about games like tony hawks pro skater and the 
 sales for F. E. A. R are not that great but once people see how good the game is I think that will 
 all change. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: springs360
Rating: 8.9
Date: Nov 16, 2006 10:27 pm PT
Review:  FEAR is a game that is not afraid to show it's simple PC shooter origins, playing and looking just 
 like countless other FPS shooters to have come out over the last five years. The game came on on 
 the PC last year to great acclaim, and arrives on the 360 looking like a straight port of the original, 
 although this is no bad thing. The game looks great, although obviously very PC-ish, with detailed 
 characters and weapons. The player battles through various office and industrial areas, which look 
 great but get a little tedious after a while because they all kind of look the same, although the 
 switch from a water treatment plant to a high rise office buildings gives a little variety in that 
 you can now smash up whole office cubicles and shatter huge panes of glass, to geat effect due 
 to the near perfect sound effects as splinters of glass blow out and crash to the floor, while 
 one of your enemies is blown back from the force of your weapon. The game is very cinematic in 
 nature, introducting a sinister supernatural side to the main objective of killing military soldiers. 
 It can be quite creepy in places, although using every horror cliche in the book ( creepy child, 
 horrific images flashing on screen and so on) but through the great use of music and siund, creates 
 an uncomfortable atmosphere thats can actually be quite scary in parts and helps to rack up the 
 tension beofre a huge firefight with the replica soldiers.
  
  these huge cinematic fire fights are the best part of the game, and using the slow mo effects can 
 create some awe-inspiring action sequences. The weapons feel heavy and powerful, especially the 
 shotgun that can literally cut people in half, if used at close range, The game does not feature 
 destructive environments like in Black, but the ability to blow out windows, blast out chunmks 
 of concrete and other objects hels to create the illusion that you are actually blowing the hell 
 out of an office with a powerful shotgun.
  
  the game doesnt try to be anything other than a generic FPS, slow mo has been used for years and 
 offers nothign new to the genre, but with gameplay this good, it doesnt really need to. the odd 
 thing about this game is that at moderate difficulty, I found it far too easy untiul the last act 
 when the difficulty suddenly spiked and became a lot harder, causing you to have to create a comlpletly 
 new set of tactics for the differant situation, which involves sniping. There are four levels of 
 difficulty and I see no good reason for this sudden change. Although I will be playing this o hard 
 to test it out.
  
  the controls take a little time to get used to, and as stated in the GS review, it is easy to press 
 the wrong button in a frantic fire fire, but this usually casues no great drama, and rarely affects 
 gameplay. using the right stick to aim is suprising accuratly done in a pc port, although slow 
 mo helps a lot in precision aiming
  to sum up, FEAR is a damn fine run+gun FPS, although on players will have come across many times 
 before , but makes a welcome addition to an already steller cast of shooters on the 360 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nickdastick
Rating: 8.7
Date: Nov 16, 2006 8:59 am PT
Review:  Very good game but where is the splitscreen multiplayer?!?! I was so close to buying this game 
 and then I found out there was no system link or even splitscreen... On the 360, that's just not 
 going to cut it anymore, even CoD stepped up and threw in splitscreen online and offline.
  
  Gameplay: Very fun game that is tough even on easy! AI is solid and tough to get by and the 
 animations are sweet!
  
  Graphics: Solid graphics and great blood affects. I also love seeing bodies turn to skeletons with 
 the particle gun. Very nice touch.
  
  Audio: Creepy is the name of the game and FEAR hits it to a T!
  
  Overall it's a sweet game 
 that could have been MUCH sweeter. For me, it's no more than a solid rental. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sixerjdm
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 15, 2006 1:04 pm PT
Review:  THE GOOD:
  
  The physics can really do some entertaining things in a wild fire fight, but in multi-player everything 
 is so sped up that it all gets lost.
  
  The single player AI can pull off some neat tricks that make the game interesting, but never intense.
 
  
  Sound design is great. When you fire a gun you FIRE a gun.
  
  THE BAD:
  
  Now that Gears is on the market, the detail of this game pales in comparison. Plenty of blank surfaces 
 that reoccur. Even last years Quake 4 or Call of Duty 2 leave it behind. Not to mention very good 
 games on less powerful platforms like Resident Evil 4.
  
  The multiplayer has no exceptionally different features from any other run and gun.
  
  MY TILT 
 FOR WHAT ITS WORTH
  
  Wait for the price to drop in half and it will soon. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pcfitness1
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 15, 2006 8:18 am PT
Review:  Gameplay :: This is where this game definitely excels. I've been playing this game almost non stop 
 since the day I got it, off and on-live. Graphics ::The visuals and very good but not great. However 
 they work well for this game. After a while the everything seems a bit too similar.
  
  Frame Rates ::This is where the game doesn't score very well. The visuals are nice and in certain 
 closed in areas the frame rates do OK. Overall they could have been much better... Cough... COD2.
 
  
  Sound ::Excellent use of sounds in this game. This is another area where they did a very nice job. 
 I know some people who read this will go sounds .. lol, yes, the sounds in this game are great.
 
  
  Value ::I think this game offers a good balance in both single and multi player modes. I have spend 
 many hours playing both and enjoy them very much.
  
  Tilt ::Overall this game is well worth the money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sonofares
Rating: 8.6
Date: Nov 20, 2006 12:59 am PT
Review:  First off, let me say I'm a little concerned about the reviewers at Gamespot. com. They give this 
 game a GREAT rating and give Project 8 a good rating. I agree FEAR is a great game but Project 
 8 is definitely equally as good as FEAR (even though completely different genres) if not better. 
 But anyway....... this is about FEAR. This is a solid FPS/horror game. It does a good job combining 
 horror and action. You will have some moments of intense action where you're fighting for your 
 life then you will have the next few moments wandering through dark corridors and going into dreamland 
 reminiscent of Max Payne. You have a slo-mode button which slows down the action enough to really 
 help you. Trust me you need it. So it does a good job juggling these moments of action and fear. 
 You will jump at certain points when things unexpectedly startle you. It is not non-stop action 
 which may be disconcerting for some but it actually adds to the surrealism and aesthetics of the 
 game. I like it. I like having a breather and being able to think and make your plan of action. 
 Plenty of great weapons. One really cool weapon that shoots some kind of electiical bolt that fries 
 all the meat off the bones of the enemy. The multiplayer is really fun. Deathmatch is my favorite 
 type of online play and this has a very solid and very fun Deathmatch among other modes. I will 
 say this is not the greatest game I've ever played but it is worht the money ok. Spend the money 
 buy it you won't be disappointed....... it didn't knock my socks off but very few games really do 
 anymore. What I mean is that there's nothing here that really hasn't been done before but what 
 the game does, it does it very well. And how many games are we really gonna see that haven't been 
 done before? I'll put it like this.... it's not real innovative but it is fun. But I'm not knocking 
 it. It's a really fun decent game worth your time to play it all the way through and you and your 
 bros (or chicks) will have some super fun online.
  
  Ok, I just finished the single player campaign and my god man this game scared the crap out of 
 me. Some of the best atmospheres I've ever seen in a game. Some great special effects. Great solid 
 gameplay. I was just sorry it was over. FEAR gave me some fear let me tell you. I jumped more than 
 a few times while playing this. Highly recommended. Now I'm gonna delve into the multiplayer some 
 more. The whole single player took me probably around ten hours or so to finish.
  All in all I give the game an 8 out of 10. (And I give project 8 a 9.5 out of 10...... so there 
 Gamespot!! I did do a review of Project 8) Check my blog for a full review. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: masterx1059
Rating: 7.3
Date: Nov 11, 2006 3:39 pm PT
Review:  I was sold on this game because of it's so-called creepy, horror-themed atmosphere. Well, first 
 of all, I just bought Gears of War, and that game is much creepier than FEAR. As a matter of fact, 
 in the 4 levels of FEAR that I played through, nothing made me jump, nothing creeped me out... been 
 there, done that. But that's not the downfall of this game. Truth be told, the graphics are very 
 sharp, objects can be blown to bits, the weapons are very powerful, and the musical score is a 
 good one. But where the game fails to me is two things: very, very, very repettitive level design, 
 and fighting the same enemies over and over again. Oh, and you can throw in the lack of any kind 
 of presentation as well. FEAR is not a bad game at all. But I found myself completely bored with 
 it, and saw nothing that hasn't been done before. I guess I just expect more. But as far as the 
 horror or creepiness factor, I don't think so. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: judith40
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 11, 2006 3:41 pm PT
Review:  I played threw F. E. A. R very quickly and i wasnt impressed, but i still gave it a chance. Now i 
 am so adicted to the game is almost insane. The cinematic action is unbelivable, the blood is awesome 
 and the controls are made just right. If your tired of the storyline invite some friends and head 
 up to the multiplayer both online and offline. F. E. A. R is an intense ride that combines a dash 
 of suspense with outstanding action. Its a must have 360 game and please dont play the game on 
 easy, you wont get any fun from it. In conclution the game is superb in every way. The slowmotion 
 botton blends with the game perfectly and with that amazing atmosphere that F. E. A. R. brings it 
 will take you on a ride that has never been expirienced before. F. E. A. R is full of suprises. go 
 buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mwr1982
Rating: 5
Date: Nov 10, 2006 6:45 pm PT
Review:  What a waste of a good idea and a good action game, the graphics lack the power of the 360, the 
 controls are to chunky, the turn aim is a waste of a good idea!!!!!! and to top all that it has 
 a bullet time system that doesnt do it any favours. But no doubt there will be people lapping this 
 up and to be fair this is not everyones type of game - you must really like your shoot em ups. 
 Dont buy it try it first but my opinion is........ Dont play this wait for gears of war you muppet 
 bags!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: StuBHoney
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 10, 2006 6:02 pm PT
Review:  LIsten up. My PC stinks. Understand really bad. I couldn't run this game on my PC if it worshipped 
 the dark lord, and sacrificed a virgin to it. I so wanted to play this game when it came out, but 
 I had to wait till the 360 version. I loved it. The creepiness, mystery, and action all fit well. 
 My wife enjoyed watching me play it. The slow mo, various fighting, and spookiness just made her 
 enjoy it. Should you buy it. I would say yes. I haven't even tried the Multi player yet, but the 
 single player is fun. Pros:
  
  The story
  the weapons just feel right
  the atmoshpere
  the story does draw you in
  
  Cons:
  
  Levels a little similar. Desolute 
 warehouse, abondon offices, and Empty town.
  
  Favorite moments:
  
  Blowing legs off with shotgun or blowing in half with shotgun.
  
  Thing I wish the game had: 
 I kept see hammers everywhere I just wanted to pick them up and bean the enemy over the head with 
 them. Heh heee hah ah .... sorry 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rennie1
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 10, 2006 1:29 pm PT
Review:  F. E. A. R. makes its debut with success on the 360 with solid frame rate, great visuals and just 
 a really fine job done on porting the game to the platform.
  
  
  Good: Slo-mo graphics, lighting effects that are industry leading, close combat is very strong, 
 guns sound great and generally look good - A. I. is excellent  stylish looking game. Bad: Scenery 
 and scope of gameplay doesnt change a lot, doesnt stray from run and gun.
  If this game was built with co-op in mind it would be in another category yet again.
  Needs turret 
 guns, sniper rifles, vehicles First the good stuff: Fear is a must have game for the system. Period. 
 There I said it. There are some games you throw into your xbox 360 to impress the neighbors who 
 dont really like games anyways, and there are some you dont. This is one that you do. The slo-mo 
 action is cool, - never since Max Payne have we seen it done this well. Evernything from the trail 
 of bullets flying through the air, to the particle effects from paper/drywall very cool Generally, 
 the gameplay is solid aside from a few glitches here and there  at one point after running away 
 from some enemies, I was surprised to be shot by them through a wall. But all in all things are 
 a solid.
  
  Audio is the best yet  I dont care what kind of subwoofers you have, get ready to buy new ones.
 
  
  The weapons look good and sound great, and the artistry renders images very well  things look 
 right  characters within the game look the way they should, buildings, walls, guns, lights, shadows 
  etc  all look great. There are moments of, shall I say, near-photorealism when it comes to 
 drywall and suspended ceilings  Im not sure how this developer does it so well, but construction 
 sites really work and look amazing. Now on to the wish list - The game could have really used co-op 
 play via system link. Its a game that is very taxing on the system so, a split screen via system 
 link would have been very cool.  or some variation  A F. E. A. R.  based co-op game I really think 
 would start to transform the shape of things to come.
  
  Damage detection Controller feedback needed to be added to the controller to indicate damage  
 Youll die many times only because you cant tell when youre getting shot  unless you keep on 
 eye on your health and one on the action  takes the gamer out of the experience.
  
  In other acclaimed shooters, you not only feel the impact of a bullet hitting you, it even pushes 
 you a certain direction if the weapon happens to have some caliber. Vary gameplay scope  it would 
 have cool to have some combat involving longer range battle  Variety of gameplay  here, turret 
 guns and mounted real world weaponry would have been pretty amazing. Vehicles, environmental variables 
 such as weather, setting changes, outdoors, distance battles involving sniping, mission work using 
 stealth as a small factor going into the mission, combat involving height  use of multiple levels 
 (although some of that was there) - Any or all of these things would take this franchise into another 
 dimension,
  
  And finally  more meticulously rendered weapons action for some weapons would have made the use 
 of the gun that much more satisfying. In a shooter, the gun is the star of the show  better guns 
 make for a better show.
  
  All in all, its a great game, a great achievement for the developers.
  
  [Double standards? 
 Grand Theft Auto port  Gamespot awards a 9  same as original FEAR port  Gamespot awards lower 
 - even though its better than the pc version] 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZombieDr
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 10, 2006 12:30 pm PT
Review:  this game has a very high tendensy to make you wanna scream your head off from trying to find out 
 what's going to happen when you open a door or go down a ladder. this is particularly a fantastic 
 game and should get an awesome ranking (preferably 9.5 on my mind) . I am an extremely experienced 
 gamer and game critic and have been playing games since the nintendo 64 came out and the ESRB was 
 first being established so I'd say that I'm qualified to tell you what i think. Anyway this game 
 is awesome despite the fact that there isn't any multiplayer lobby, but that just makes it better 
 in a way so that you can hop into a game quickly and surely. The arsenal in the game is very intuative 
 and is well thought of ( i applaud the creators of F. E. A. R.) . This is the most original game I've 
 seen to date and the scary moments in the game make me wanna stand up and scream, but it also has 
 the strange ability to make you wanna come back for more (unless you're 11 years old and don't 
 like crapping in your pants kind of fear) but i would probably have to say this is the greatest 
 game of all time. Thank you for making this game and thank you to all who read this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AtomicBaconBits
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 30, 2006 8:24 am PT
Review:  F. E. A. R. is a port from 2005's shooter of the year for the PC. This psychological thriller FPS puts 
 you in the role of an elite soldier for a secret military operation know as F. E. A. R. (First Encounter 
 Assault Recon) . You have been trained to face the unexplained... the paranormal... the unexpected, no 
 other soldiers in the world even dream of taking on what the F. E. A. R. team go up against...
  
  The Gameplay
  While the campaign may be a little short (I beat it in 2 days) The Gameplay is 
 no short of ubelievable. It will be the most fun you will ever have in an FPS. The effects and the 
 amount of hell the bullets unleash is just astounding, the unique Slo-Mo power-up really kicks things 
 up a notch, and is very useful in tough situations with multiple enemies, it sometimes decides your 
 Survival... or your gruesome death.
  The AI is TOUGH, and wicked smart... even on the easiest difficulty... so this isn't your average 
 'Run &amp; Gun' oh no. F. E. A. R.'s AI is a technological breakthrough, it really changes the way you 
 play FPS. Not only will your enemy's take cover, but they will also work as a team to take you out, talk 
 to each other, bark commands, and if they hear the faintest sound of your approach and/or they see 
 your flashlight, they will become much more alert and aware of what's going on in the environment 
 around them. And when it gets scary... believe me... you will be scared. Words can't even describe 
 the weirdness and horror you will run into during the campaign, the effects make it truly seem like 
 you are there. Without spoiling anything, I will say that the last 2 intervals were so intense... I 
 almost turned the lights on in my room... The online multi-player I think is the best for the 360 
 yet, it's fast paced and freakin' addicting, you can also adjust the speed of the player's movement, and 
 there are Slo-Mo gametypes that are completley unique... and downright fun. This is truly an amazing 
 game.
  
  The Graphics
  Could have better, now I'm not saying they're bad, they're actually quite good and satisfying enough 
 for me. But I think they could have at least sharpened them up a bit, polished, or just given a little 
 more detail. But hey... I ain't complaining.
  
  The Sound
  Is definently the high point in this game. From the terrifying ambiance, to the spooky voices and 
 sound effects... this game has it all. Even if you just kick a litlle soda can on the ground, it will 
 make a good sound (I even scared myself when I kicked a soda can during an intense moment in the 
 campaign...) . All in all, this game's sound really create's an eerie ambiance and playing experience, from 
 the close encounter's to the small soda cans and mugs... everything in this game has a sound, and 
 it's very well done.
  
  Overall, F. E. A. R. in it's own spooky ways, revolutionizes the genre, and is a must have for all 360 
 owners that didn't get a chance to play the PC original. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: therabidbob
Rating: 9.7
Date: Nov 10, 2006 7:19 am PT
Review:  In Sartre's play the flies people were sad because the world is a sad place. This game will make 
 you happy with all the fun you will have. However be forewarned that this game hates you. I mean 
 it honestly hates you personaly. This game didn't just want to destroy me it wanted to eviscerate 
 me. The AI is the best in any game ever and it holds a grudge. It tried every thing it could try 
 to make me dead and I was dead lot. The graphics are awsome but that only serves to enhance the 
 hate this game has for you. If you buy it please lock it up in a cabinate when you are not playing 
 it because it will attack you while you sleep. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Silver_Fire
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 9, 2006 4:10 pm PT
Review:  F. E. A. R. has finally arrived on the xbox 360, largely intact from the PC version a year ago. For 
 those that are looking for an awesome shooter, this is your game.
  In FEAR, you play the point man; a nameless character who was recently assigned to the FEAR team. 
 You're sent in to neutralize Paxton Fettel, a cannibal who has gone insane and has taken command 
 of a battalion of clone soldiers. Throughout the game you'll be fighting the clone soldiers and 
 discovering the mystery behind the reasons of Fettel's insanity.
  They call it F. E. A. R. for a reason. throughout the game, you'll be running into a little girl named 
 Alma, who resembles Samara in The Ring . The game is filled with many moments where you'll see 
 her darting out of your vision, or some crates move. The game sets up the creepy atmosphere perfectly. 
 A lot of the time you'll be wandering around bracing for Alma to appear, but it never comes.
  The shooting aspect of FEAR is fantastic. As the point-man, you have a Slowmo power that gives 
 you an edge over the replicas, and you'll need it, because the enemy AI is the best I've ever seen. 
 They do a lot of damage, so you can't really run n' gun. As such, they'll pin you down with suppressing 
 fire, flank you, flush you out of cover, and work as a team to bring your demise. The feel of weapons 
 is great, with the sound of your gun and the lead falling just right. You will have allies, but 
 they all die before they do anything (scripted) or in times of calm.
  The graphics are excellent, they have better lighting than the PC version, but it is pretty much 
 the same. Bullets will make chunks in walls and kick up clouds of dust, making firefights feel 
 even more satisfying. Another improvement over the PC version is the frame rate is much smoother.
 
  FEAR is not without it's faults. The enemies and environments can get a bit repetitive, although 
 a WWII game veteran won't notice the enemy one. The plot has more depth than you'd think, but leaves 
 many questions unanswered.
  In terms of new content, there are four instant action maps, which gives Alma a timeout and goes 
 right to the clones. They are fun to play around for a bit, but won't hold your interest for long. 
 There is also a bonus mission, in which you play as a SFOD-D soldier. It's really short but fairly 
 hard considering you don't have Slowmo.
  The multi-player supports 16 players on Xbox Live, and is fast-paced and furious, you get a lot 
 of kills and die a lot, with the maps creating chaotic fights. There is also a small level of customization 
 with your character model. The best thing is that the slowmo and martial arts moves in the single 
 player are kept. In the slowmo matches (separate from regular) one player will have the slowmo and 
 you'll have to kill him to get it. This creates a level of strategy in team games.
  Overall, F. E. A. R. is an excellent shooter, with an intense single-player and awesome multiplayer. 
 Even with other shooters out now like Gears of War, you should pick this game up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: M00N-CAT
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 9, 2006 10:38 am PT
Review:  This is a scary game built for the 360 system it came out last year for the pc and now it's out 
 for the 360! This game will scare the crap out of you. The graphics are very good the framerate 
 is not all that good but you will get used to it. The graphics are very good better than the pc 
 version. The gameplay will keep you occupied for a long time and it's re-playable. Overall
  this game kicks ass. If you want a scary game to play this is the one my friend almost wet himself 
 because of the scary parts in the game. Well im going to give this a 9.6 this was a very good game 
 i recomend to anbody who likes gettin scared! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VIIEthan
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 8, 2006 10:26 pm PT
Review:  this game is AMAZING.
  not only are the graphics good... but the gameplay is addicting.
  3 words... FEAR. is. superb.
  it keeps you on the edge of your seat... it made the hair on the back 
 of my neck stand up.
  the sound is EXCELLENT.
  especially when you go into slo-mo... the thing goes... bewwwww 
  and it's FRIGGIN SWEET.
  and 
 the bad guys say bad stuff about you.. so it gets you fired up to PW3N them.
  the diffuculty varies.. and thats GREAT.
  good for all levels of skill-
  n00b to MASTER
  3 
 more words.... GOOD GREAT GRAND!
  the little girl is a **** in this game..
  she SCARES THE LIVING SH! T out of me..
  and that guy.... is a douche.
  
  all in all..
  it's 
 a great FPS/thriller.
  
  cant wait for the sequel! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nosferatu94
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 8, 2006 9:02 pm PT
Review:  this game is one of the few i've ever played that drew u in so deep with the atmosphere that it 
 scared the hell outta of me. totally awesome!!! just play it with the lights off and a loud surround 
 sound stereo and get ready to jump outta ur seat!! it starts off like a typical fps except with 
 slo-mo then it gets down creepy with weird voices and the little girl alma. everytime u get static 
 u know something crazy is gonna happen. i'm not gonna give away any plot points here but by the 
 time u get to the end of the game its really crazy and a little unnerving, i can't remember how 
 many times i was sitting on the edge of my seat while playing this game. it really lives up to 
 its name and gives u a sense of fear while playing it. not many games can truly get u to feel almost 
 what the character u play feels but this one succeeds. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sethlhaynes
Rating: 8.7
Date: Nov 8, 2006 1:28 pm PT
Review:  This is a game that you really don't want to play alone in the dark. Other than the fact that the 
 controls aren't really that smooth, the gameplay is great, with every single firefight being a 
 new combat experience. The A. I. is especially brilliant, and the clone troopers do things that 
 a real fireteam in a real situation would do. (i. e. taking cover, throwing grenades, calling for 
 reinforcements, and flanking maneuvers) Finally, the horror aspect of the game is expecially effective, 
 and consistently scares the crap out of me. When I least expect it, a ghostly image or a fleeting 
 little girl will run or flash across the screen, temporarily making me feel like a two year old. 
 When you put all aspects of the game together, what you get is a good, not great, FPS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Snake0457
Rating: 7.2
Date: Nov 8, 2006 8:27 am PT
Review:  I played FEAR on PC, and it was a great game with a great story and great graphics (even on my 
 midline Radeon x1600) . Buying it for 360, I was hoping for something extra, anything really, to 
 justify the price. The only thing new here is the instant action mode, and a few weapons here and 
 there, but playing it on 360 just bored me. Everything is identitcal here, except for the graphics, 
 which I'm sad to say my PC pushed out better graphics with a slightly lower framerate. But if you 
 dont have a PC capable of running FEAR, then the 360 version is worth buying, even with its half 
 baked story. The gameplay is just as intense, and the environment gets torn up by every bullet 
 you shoot. That means taking cover will often result in a cloud of dust around you, forcing you 
 to find other ways of returning fire. Multiplayer is average, and its good if you like to play 
 FPS's online. Controls are a bit too much to deal with for such a fast paced game, and get pretty 
 annoying if youve ever played FEAR on a PC. Theres not much to talk about in FEAR that hasnt already 
 been talked about, and the 360 version definately delivers the FEAR name well, but its dissapointing 
 because the 360 is capable of so much more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Villimax
Rating: 8.1
Date: Dec 5, 2006 2:38 pm PT
Review:  I'm gonna' say the word scary an awful lot.
  Graphics? Flawless. Sounds? Flawless. Yes, yes, I'm sure you're aware that the video and audio 
 of the game are just perfect. We get it.
  Let me just say that the game is meant to be scary, and it is. I've never found scary movies to 
 be scary at all, but F. E. A. R. forces you to be right in the middle of everything, setting the pace 
 of the events, and walking right into something freaky and unexpected. Little girls are frightening.
 
  I found the scary parts to be perfectly timed, and quite scary indeed. They made the game very 
 addictive the first time through, as I'd have no idea what to expect around the next corner, and 
 I'd desperately look forward to the next freaky moment.
  However, beyond the scary cutscenes, the single player is boring beyond boring. At first, I found 
 the AI to be really interesting, and the action to be fun, but after a few battles of me alone 
 versus small groups of identical soldiers, it got really boring. I was so bored by it all, I didn't 
 even make it to the first battle against anything stronger than the big, beefed-up human soldiers.
 
  I loved the scary parts, but the fighting was too damn repetitive. The AI never did anything unexpected, 
 and each battle felt the same.
  I had really been hoping that the game would be team-based. Looking at lots of screenshots, and 
 the description of the game as the player being part of a well-trained team and all of that crap 
 had led me to believe that the player would be set alongside comrades in arms.
  Instead, the player is always alone. ALWAYS. If the player sees any friendly faces, they either 
 ditch him or die horribly before the action starts, so the player must always tackle enemies alone. 
 Not that the enemies are hard, but without teammates, the enemies are just BORING.
  I know I'm way too much of a teammate addict, but you can ask any fan of a good game like Half-Life: 
 Opposing Force or Medal of Honor: Allied Assault that the coolest parts in those games were the 
 rare parts where the player gets teammates. It's not that the player needs help. Teammates just 
 set a more fun environment and a better feeling to the game.
  Enemies fighting enemies is also just as fun as teammates (the only reason I played through Halo's 
 single player) , but as far as I could be bothered to play through the lame single player fight 
 scenes, there were no such events. Every enemy only wanted me dead.
  So, though the scary events of the game are just incredible, and they're really something to look 
 forward to (and watch alone in the dark) , the actual fighting in between each cool scary scene 
 is boring as hell. I just couldn't bear to play it all the way through because the fighting was 
 too repetitive, especially with the great disappointment that the player gets no teammates in combat, 
 even though the game says the player is a part of a team, and many screenshots made it look like 
 some of the player's enemies were actually his allies.
  
  I can't see why everyone would think the game is so great. I don't know why it'd be a top shooter 
 . The special effects, physics, sound effects and all of that technical stuff are just perfect, 
 but the single player gameplay, beyond the scary scenes, was too damn boring to keep me interested 
 for very long.
  Because only the scary scenes are fun, once you play the game all the way through, you'll probably 
 have no reason to play it again, as you've seen the scary parts, thus ruining any suprises by those, 
 and the combat is just boring.
  
  The multiplayer is fun, though I've already talked about it in F. E. A. R. Combat (only on the PC) , 
 and don't feel like retyping it all. My number ratings below are for the SINGLE PLAYER ONLY. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheXboxgamer73
Rating: 6.8
Date: Nov 7, 2006 6:05 pm PT
Review:  Finnally, the proclaimed great FPS that PC fans have been boasting about for so long has made it's 
 way to the Xbox 360. Is this good news for us 360 gamers? Well.. kind of... and kind of not... 
 Although F. E. A. R. has gained quite the reputation for being one of the most explosive and innovative 
 shooters to date, it is actually far from perfection.
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  GAMEPLAY:
  
  F. E. A. R controls like your typical FPS, using thumbsticks to move, triggers to shoot and throw 
 grenades, and so on and so forth. You play as an elite marine soldier under the First Encounter 
 Assault Recon (F. E. A. R.) squad, sent in to investigate and figure out the source behind a bunch 
 of strange things that have been occuring. The story isn't very well layed out, and it basically 
 boils down to you listening to a bunch of answering machines, receiving messages from your team 
 (who always seem to be in a helicopter somewhere rather than assisting you) , and shooting the same 
 2 soldiers over and over again. Fortunately, the gunplay is very exciting and brutal, and the excellent 
 physics ensure that plenty of items and bodies fly across the screen in a satisfying fashion. This 
 is pretty much the extent of the gameplay however, and by the 2nd or 3rd interval (level) , you 
 have pretty much experienced everything F. E. A. R. has to offer. To make things worse, F. E. A. R. can't 
 really decide whether or not it wants to be an action game, a horror game, or a mixture of the 
 two. You'll spend countless amounts of time wandering through maze-like hallways and corridors 
 trying to figure out which switch opens an elevator door or what room or vent leads to the next 
 area. While the game definitely has its share of action packed moments, the boring parts inbetween 
 occur way too often, and last much too long.
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  GRAPHICS:
  
  F. E. A. R. is an outstanding looking game. The details of every bullet impact, explosion, and spray 
 of blood look absolutley gorgeous. Things increase tenfold when viewed during the games Slow-Mo 
 power. Unfortunately, pretty much everything looks the same, which is one of the main problems 
 with F. E. A. R. Although the combat is unquestionably satisfying, it just becomes uninteresting when 
 every combat scenario takes place in an environment that looks exactly like the last place you 
 were at. You can only wander hallways that never change appeareance for so long before things just 
 become boring, and you realize that things aren't nearly as great as they could have been. Basically, 
 the things that are in the game look great, but they are repeated way too often... I mean WAY TOO 
 OFTEN... ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  SOUND:
  
  Since the game seems to be going for the scary effect, there usually isn't any music going on unless 
 you dive into an action packed scenario or scripted event. Guns sound appropriate as needed, as 
 do explosions and other particle effects. Enemy chatter is a highpoint, as enemies often speak 
 out events as they are occuring, and actively communicate according to how you are performing. 
 For example, enemy soldiers will often yell out things like I see a flashlight! or He's trying 
 to flank us! when the situation yields it. Other than that, nothing too noteworthy stands out in 
 the sound department.
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  VALUE:
  
  Like I said before, F. E. A. R., because of it's insane amount of repetition, gets old really fast. 
 For most gamers, one play through the campaign (about 8-10 hours) will be more than enough before 
 setting this game on the shelf. The game features a seperate Instant Action mode, but this is basically 
 just shooting some soldiers to open up gates to shoot more soldiers. It, like the campaign, gets 
 old much too quickly. The only redeeming value of F. E. A. R. is the multiplayer. Multiplayer is very 
 fast paced and exciting, usually lag free, and a ton of fun. Those who take great interest in the 
 multiplayer might actually get their moneys worth through a full purchase.
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  TILT:
  
  Unless you feel like investing some hardcore time into the multiplayer, F. E. A. R. is only worth 
 a rental. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Falyn
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 7, 2006 3:13 pm PT
Review:  This game is a lot of fun, not for the feint of heart though. There is blood everywhere, and lots 
 of dead bodies. The tension builds continuously. I was always expecting there to be a fight, and 
 I would turn a corner, and there would be nothing but a flickering light. Very intriguing storyline 
 helps to push the game forward. The graphics are impressive, and help to set the erie storyline. 
 An excellent game, just be aware, this game is violent. Lots of fun I highly reccomend it. The 
 guns are also a lot of fun to shoot. You feel like you are holding a gun, he noises they emit, 
 and the sound of the shells hitting the floor add to the realism. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nixtothe3rdpowa
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 6, 2006 6:08 pm PT
Review:  How many games have Artificial Intelligence that will work with eachother, have as much health 
 as you start out with, flank you, and have the same melee abilities you have. 10 9 8 7 6 5 4 3 
 2 1 0. Didnt think you could think of any game with AI like this. The game has a creepy feel that 
 makes players jump out of their seats, and get their heart rate up, which many games try to do, 
 and fail miserably at. The AI and their swearing is also a humorous aspect. The graphics, even 
 though they arent the best on the 360, are still spectacular. The slo mo aspect is even more incredible, 
 and the blood, OOOHHH the blood, makes this game a great addition to the aresenal of games on the 
 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MidnightSasha
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 6, 2006 3:59 pm PT
Review:  I had no doubt in my mind F. E. A. R would be a bad game when I bought it on Launch day and guess 
 what I was right. F. E. A. R is an Amazeing experiance what with the creepy level designs, the Slightly 
 scary Atmosphere and the Incredibly Intelligent A. I and last but not least the amazeing Graphics 
 that include blood splatter, debri and Extreme Destructable environment. Put all this together 
 and you have a MasterPeice of a game. This game feature's Great weapons though there isn't any 
 Secondary Weapon on them there still very effective and there are 2 weapons you can Dual Wield. 
 There is also a Slo-mo ability that lets you go all matrix on your enemys. The online is great, 
 I haven't played much of it yet but from what I can tell is its Fun and easy to play. The only 
 complaint I have is that after a whew days of playing it, it kept freezeing on me. So I took it 
 back and got another one, so we'll see what happens. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rcetmorgan
Rating: 8.6
Date: Nov 6, 2006 10:03 am PT
Review:  When this game came out on the pc i thought not bad but i dont know if i should get it and i passed 
 then a few months ago i heard it was coming out on the 360 and was so excited and went and pre-ordered 
 it and that was a great decision because this game has solid to above average at all things except 
 that this games weapons and the slow motion ability have given this game a super ranking. i truly 
 enjoy this game and think it is well worth its price and you should all pick it up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: therabidfrog
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 6, 2006 8:45 am PT
Review:  The graphics are great, the game is intense, but the real thing is the AI. Sick of how grade school 
 shooters like Halo destroyed the genre? I am! This game doesn't just want you dead, it wants to 
 destroy you. The AI is completely out of this world. Enemys flank, and jump behind you. They run 
 and then dive and shoot at you. They never sit in one spot. If you want to remember what FPS were 
 like before head shots and one hit kill laser swords then play it! I command you! There really 
 isn't a second of this game that doesn't have you watching your back, and it isn't done by cheaping 
 it up with snipers every 6 inches (like Halo) and completely removing all ammo from the game in 
 hard modes (like Halo) and infact you generaly don't run into groups of more than 4 enemys at a 
 time, unlike games that kill you purely by overwhelming you with snipers (like Halo) . Play game 
 now! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: donalbane
Rating: 8.3
Date: Nov 6, 2006 7:41 am PT
Review:  F. E. A. R. is a port of the PC's 2005 game of the year, so 360 owners who missed it the 1st time 
 around were expecting great things. F. E. A. R. delivers a great shooter experience for the most part: 
 It's actually scary, (something many games aspire to be but few ever really pull off,) the bullet 
 time mechanic is a blast to use, it looks great with it's high-poly models, wonderful physics and 
 high resolution textures, and the AI is some of the best around. However, despite these strengths, 
 the dull level design confines players to incredibly dull, repetetive environments throughout the 
 entire campaign that will leave players wondering how Monolith could have gotten so much right 
 without giving the levels the attention they deserved. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chriss0608
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 6, 2006 6:44 am PT
Review:  I immensely enjoyed playing this game. The atmospeher was sufficiently disturbing, with the shadows 
 playing tricks on you and the music giving you an adequate amount of chills. The weaponry looked 
 and sounded quite authentic, and seeing the environment around you get blown apart was awesome. 
 I didn't really care for the reflex mode as it didn't really offer anything new to the game. The 
 enemy AI was impressive and the firefights were quite a rush. I wish that you would get more of 
 a variety in enemy types (the ninjas were freaking cool) , but I won't complain. Frame rate was 
 great, and the graphics looked very detailed. Multiplayer is a blast as well. Bring on F. E. A. R. 
 2!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ninja929
Rating: 8.6
Date: Nov 6, 2006 2:31 am PT
Review:  F. E. A. R. is one of those games you enjoy if you like fps. When i downloded the demo on LIVE, i 
 was blown away by how fun it was to kill enemies in slow motion and watch them flail like ragdolls. 
 After I was done messing around with the slowdown feature, I was ready to experience the game. 
 The AI is unbelievebly smart. The enemies talk to each other and flank you. It almost feels like 
 youre playing againts live humans. The graphiics are great. Amost everything can be braken from 
 gunfire. The particle effects are decent. The game is fun and any fps fan would enjoy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Aromon
Rating: 7.7
Date: Nov 5, 2006 11:10 pm PT
Review:  The Good: Solid gameplay; spectacular A. I.; it's finally playable with a controller; Graphics look 
 better than PC.
  The Bad: Upgraded graphics are still not 360 quality; frame rate gets bogged down frequently; bonus 
 mission isn't worth a dime; Achievements are insane; Online is basically the same from on PC; Price 
 tag should have been lowered because it's a port.
  
  FEAR on the PC was and still is spectacular. Stunning A. I., great graphics for it's time, steady 
 frame rate, and a killer storyline. It is one the best shooters ever. So when Vivendi announced 
 they were releasing an Xbox 360 version, I was stoked. Until I played it.
  
  First of all, the graphics are fine. Fine that is for the $30 price tag that you can buy it for 
 on PC. $60????? No No No and No. That is why I say rent it first. They are not bad, but you can 
 buy it on computer for half off. On the brighter side, the gameplay is awesome on the console and 
 the enemies are even smarter. They won't just run at you after you keep them at bay, but they will 
 now wait it out or toss a grenade up your butt to finish you off. Be prepared to move around while 
 stll taking cover, because they will always flank you.
  
  Sound is the same as the PC. They talk to eachother, tell eachother to shut-up when their looking 
 for you, the weapons sound good, and all else is fine.
  
  When it gets down to quality and quantity, FEAR is the best there is, no doubt about it. But Vivendi 
 is just trying to make more money off a product that could have been remade for the next-generation 
 of consoles. Instead, it feels like Xbox 180 instead of 360, and your paying double just because 
 it's a new realease on different technology. It's true next-gen debut will have to wait until FEAR 
 2. And they better not turn Extraction Point into a port, or I'll smack them. Not, but don't do 
 that Sierra. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jake696
Rating: 9.9
Date: Nov 5, 2006 6:47 pm PT
Review:  This game is by far one of the best things to happen to the Xbox 360 since Oblivion and should 
 not be missed by anybody for the matter. It is just absolutely perfect in every way from the great 
 physics to the intense gun fights to the Ring style creepiness of the whole game. The thing that 
 I like that most is the part where if you step into a line of light or even look down, you can 
 either see your own reflection or your legs which I haven't seen in any game actually which brings 
 in the realism even more. The frame rate in the game is surprisingly well held up through all the 
 action considering how well it looks. The physics is what really takes the cake where you can like 
 bump into any thing and it will just like real life. So with this, I urge you greatly to get the 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cpttemplar
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 5, 2006 4:30 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: The gameplay in F. E. A. R. is very fast-paced and intense. The mixture of horror and action 
 elements works perfectly. Their are many moments in F. E. A. R. that will have you hiding in fear 
 or on the edge of your seat in intense battle. The battle sequences are nothing short of amazing. 
 The environments make the action sequences just great because of the destructable environments. 
 If you let loose with a machine gun, and kill everything in sight, and then look at the battle 
 zone just afterwards it will be a mess. You will see bottles and books and other items strewn around, 
 papers in shreds, the walls and floors filled with bullet holes, and multiple things on fire or 
 that have exploded. Graphics: The game F. E. A. R. is very nice looking. One of the only graphical 
 complaints I have is the textures in the game, if you get really close to the walls and doors and 
 other items, you notice that they have no real texture, and are just sort of bland, but the textures 
 are still much better than anything from the current-gen systems. All in all though, F. E. A. R. is 
 a gorgeous game.
  
  Sound: The quality of F. E. A. R.'s audio is very nice. All the guns sound like you think the should, 
 and everything else sounds just great.
  
  Value: The single player campaign seemed rather short, taking me less than 10 hours to complete. 
 The online play, although not the best in the world is still very entertaining and will keep you 
 wanting more after each round. I'm especially fond of good old team deathmatch in the game. Another 
 awesome addition to the game is the Instant Action mini-game. This mini-game puts you in one of 
 the many battlefields from the game and has you try to survive for as long as you can, and trust 
 me, its much harder than you think. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Camper_On_Creat
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 11, 2008 2:43 am PT
Review:  Well, I think this game blows all of the other shooters that have been on the 360 out of the water. 
 Forget GRAW, COD 2, PDZ, or whatever else has come out. The game is just a blast to play. For the 
 360, the graphics are not quite to where we would like, but the are still good enough to be labeled 
 as next gen. The thing that is the true label of next gen however, is the gameplay that F. E. A. R 
 brings to the table. The environments are built so well. Firefights were just ment to occur in 
 this game. The AI is just so smart, they are almost too smart. The environments look like they 
 are always built to where the AI has the oppurtunity to flank you, and they always take full advantage 
 of this. The game has some eerie moments that will keep you on your toes as well. The game is not 
 as freaky as Monolithe's last title for the 360, but it is still eerie enough to give a unique 
 atmosphere to F. E. A. R. The multiplayer is absolutly the funnest thing to hit Xbox live. This is 
 how next gen multiplayer shooters should be. Everything in the environment is not pre-rendered!!!!!! 
 YAY!!!!!! It works just like the single player does. The amount of damage and destruction you can 
 dish out withh your gun is still there, all the smoke left after intense shootouts is still there, 
 you are still able to run around and knock something over, like a vial, or some small boxes. I 
 have even seen handrailings that can get blown off. Now that I think abobut it, this is the first 
 time console gamers have ever seen anything quite like this. If Gears of War fails, I know what 
 I have to lean back on. Also, dont be fooled by the tom clancy thing anymore, there is no way they 
 csn make a game as good as this. GRAW is so not better then F. E. A. R, it is kind of laughable. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BarrettLight
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 5, 2006 7:03 am PT
Review:  Despite it's coming out on PC where the experienced problem of sold (or in reality not sold) units 
 came to be a nuisance for Vivendi Games, F. E. A. R. will finally get its money worth for all the 
 360 users out there. F. E. A. R. in all its guts and glory is just plain and simply an awesome shooter. 
 A great storyline featured with some amazingly innovative quirks including futuristic weapons, 
 a slow motion John Woo style feature, and very well done voice overs, and cinema productions wraps 
 F. E. A. R. around a colorful nutshell. For a more in depth an visual on the game check out Gamespot's 
 videos section under their summary page. But all in all if you are a hardcore fan of brilliant 
 action games with horror plots twisted in, then F. E. A. R. is definitely the game for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ice_man_1985
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 5, 2006 5:33 am PT
Review:  if you don't have it on pc , go buy it now without hesitation , but the one's who has it already 
 will buy it again , not because of the extra content , cause you will have a strange feeling that 
 you will buy it again , and if you have a really good sound system like denon , yamaha , boss , 
 believe me it will be better than the pc version and you will not regret it for trying it .
  
  if you still not sure , at least try it at your friend's house , and like i told you if he 
 have a good sound system and a big HDTV screen you will say WOW just WOW .
  
  im not going on the details cause i wrote most of it on the pc review , but if you one of the hate 
 scary games , just sing a barny song , just kiding but it will scare the hell out of you and they 
 are the one who devloped most of the scary games like aliens vs predator 2 and condemnd , so be 
 ready to jump alot . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lolgubbe
Rating: 9.7
Date: Feb 28, 2007 8:51 am PT
Review:  The Good: really awesome graphics, better graphics than the pc version, and there is a new mission 
 including in the 360 version. and the sound is still always so freakin awesome as always, u know 
 the music and the sound effects and fear is an survival horror fps game with a lot of scary sequences 
 and that's what's fear is all about and u got a new weapon which is those crazy dual rifles and 
 those are cool, and the weapons and everything is still awesome. so fear is actually really awesome 
 on 360 also not only pc!
  
  The Bad: nothing bad what i've to say.
  
  Overall: now this game is awesome both on pc and xbox 360 and if u played this on pc (now i mean 
 on a pretty high-end pc) then the 360 version is something to test out and if u've never play fear 
 on pc or have played it on a low-end pc then it's a must have if u own a xbox 360 
::::::

::::::
UserName: defogger
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 7, 2006 10:55 am PT
Review:  When this game was shown on the PC many months ago, I was dying to play it. I heard that it was 
 a revolutionary new shooter which brought the genre back to life. However, it required such a powerful 
 PC, and I wasnt about to throw away over 1,000 bucks just to play one game. So I waited, and now 
 here it is, on the Xbox 360, even better than before. I did not get a chance to compare the PC 
 and the 360 versions, but I will say this, It definitly deserves higher than an 8.6. The graphics 
 are as good as Perfect Dark Zero, and COD 2, and better than Dead Rising. Its definitly less glitchy 
 than Oblivion. Every detail is crisp, clear and jaw-dropping. Muzzle flashes and shadows are all 
 excellent and there were no graphical glitches watsoever for me, which is rare with next-gen games. 
 The sound is thunderous and perfectly placed to each weapon, and you never get sick of hearing 
 your shotgun roar in reflex mode. Voice acting is superb as well. The controls are NOT confusing 
 at all, unlike what you may think from the video review. I memorized the controls in about 20-30 
 minutes and had no trouble after. Each function is placed perfectly on the controller and you WILL 
 be able to react quickly in combat. Now for the story, it is brilliant and well thought out, but 
 is not very scary, and pretty confusing. The game can be very sadistic at times which makes it 
 all the more entertaining. Basically it mixes Max Payne gameplay into the chemistry perfectly. 
 There are many weapons to choose from and 4 different difficulties to choose from (you will oblviously 
 want to do it on easy the first time through, just right for beginners) . Overall this game is one 
 of the top shooters on the 360 and it was ported really really well. If you like action-packed 
 and creepy games, its all in this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stfumate
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 3, 2006 4:27 pm PT
Review:  I had almost forgot how much fun this game was. I bought this game last year for computer and now 
 for Xbox 360. I must say that it is just as much fun to play then as it is today. Mad props to 
 F. E. A. R. for scaring me again and again and again. Graphics are amazing and the A. I. is still intense. 
 The creepy music and enemies are always coming at you when you least expect it. I haven't had a 
 chance to play it on Xbox live yet but I'm sure it's amazing. Definitely a game to add to your 
 collection! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: weber182
Rating: 8.9
Date: Nov 3, 2006 2:06 pm PT
Review:  One couldn't think of a more fitting title for this thrill ride of a game. Within ten minutes of 
 sitting down and playing this game, I was totally hooked. My palms were sweating, my heart was 
 racing, and I was actually afraid to go down that next hallway. The one that says DO NOT ENTER 
 in big red letters, with a bloddy handprint on the handle. No, I don't want to.. one part of me 
 whimpered. Yet another part of me said Hell yeah.. You know you want to.. As can be expected, I 
 went in. The next 30 seconds was, as much of FEAR is, enough to scare me sh*tless. As far as realism 
 of the firepower goes, FEAR is the top game I've played so far. The report of the weapons is immensely 
 loud, wood splinters, dust flys, and when it's all said and done, you can finally take a deep breath 
 and sort through went just went on. Rinse and repeat. As far as combat goes, this is how the game 
 goes. But FEAR is far more than just a combat game. It's a first-person horror movie. You know 
 you're being watched throughout the whole thing, and opening every door is suspenseful. Words can't 
 describe how scary some parts of this game is. FEAR is an amazing blend of an extremely realistic 
 modern combat game, and a horror game that will have you sleeping with the lights on.
  
  (Graphics are a downside, but you still know whats going on.) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nkaiton
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 3, 2006 9:56 am PT
Review:  F. E. A. R. has gotta be one of the coolest shooters out there. I picked up my copy yesterday and 
 my girlfriend hasn't seen me since. The dreary atmosphere and morose score put you right in the 
 middle of a top-knotch horror movie. I don't want to spoil it for you with details. You'll just 
 have to play it and see for yourself. This is the thrill ride that you'll want to go on again and 
 again. The controls are precise and I the ability to ration health icons is a nice touch (how often 
 in action games does this happen: you come across countless health icons when you don't need them, 
 only to be left high and dry when you're in trouble) . And yes, the enemy A. I. is really, really 
 tough. You'll never play the same way twice against these baddie clones. Don't worry, though. With 
 practice, you'll find new ways of disposing them. To repeat what others have said, yes, the levels 
 do start to look the same, but it's easy to forgive considering how well designed these maps are 
 to begin with. If you enjoyed Resident Evil 4, Condemned, or if you're just a fan of intense action 
 in general, F. E. A. R. is your game... until Gears of War. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Snake123456
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 3, 2006 8:47 am PT
Review:  One of the best fps' i've played in a long time. Great action, Great conspiracy, Great multiplayer, 
 and great graphics. Also, there's plenty of blood in the game for you sickos out there like me, 
 so don't let that keep you from playing this game. It also (as its name implies) has a good amount 
 of scare scenes which keep the game interesting. The multiplayer is also very easy to jump into 
 and it's put together very well. I reccomend it as a buy for anyone who loves first person shooters 
 and for anyone who enjoys a solid online multiplayer. For those of you who couldn't play it on 
 the PC, this is just as good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SpruceCaboose
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 10, 2007 8:31 pm PT
Review:  This game is dark, creepy, and very atmospheric. For those gamers who played Condemned: Criminal 
 Origins, the graphical style and atmosphere will be instantly familiar. This shooter doesn't break 
 any molds for the FPS genre, but it executes very well. Its story, while criticized, I find to 
 be fine for this type of game, and the unsettling nature of the environments and the characters 
 are superb. There are some weird graphical pop-ups from time to time, and some segments are just 
 strange, but I would highly recommend this game. Gory set-pieces are inter spliced with ghostly 
 images and subliminal flashes of gore. Slower paced, intensity building moments are balanced nicely 
 with heavy, frantic fire-fights. This game is a blast! Also, the sound designs are fantastic! This 
 holiday season is good to the 360 gamer, with F. E. A. R, Gears of War, and Call of Duty 3! Be sure 
 not to miss F. E. A. R, especially if you never played the PC game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: huntAD
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 3, 2006 4:53 am PT
Review:  I'll just cut to the chase and start reviewing the many portions of the game.
  
  Singleplayer: The singleplayer is, in one word, scary. It is no mystery that FEAR has a creepy 
 nature to its singleplayer. One thing that I must say about it is that it does it very well. Parts 
 of the game are so scary that you might not want to finish it all in one sitting. The game uses 
 the best kind of scares, psychological fear. It psyches you out and makes you very uneasy about 
 what exactly is around the next corner. The actual gameplay is fantastic! If anyone has played 
 the demo, they know every major complaint was fixed and polished nicely. The aim feels silky smooth 
 and gives almost pc precise aim. The Enemies you face are extremely smart. They definitley are 
 believable and will make the game very difficult if you aren't smart about your decisions. The 
 great thing is that they don't feel cheap, they feel realistic. The overall experience was very 
 satisfying.
  
  Multiplayer: The multiplayer is awesome! It has to be my favorite xbox live game. It is fast paced 
 gameplay with many many modifiers. You can tweak your game to fit your play style (faster paced, 
 weapon options, time limit, and more) . The slo mo variants are very fun and add a new layer to 
 the gameplay. A slo mo powerup spawns on the map and the team or player that grabs it tries to 
 fight everyone off as it charges (as everyone will know exactly where you are) . When it charges 
 the player hits a button and the world slows down extremely. The catch is that the player or team 
 that uses it has a slightly faster speed than the other team giving them a major advantage. It 
 is a nice change, I urge you to try it. The multiplayer in this game is highly addictive!
  
  Overall, I would definitley recommend this to anyone I know. It is a must play, especially 
 if you never played it on pc. It was a smooth conversion and both versions are done extremely well. 
 The graphics are beautiful and add to the horror of the game, and the sound definitley does the 
 same if not wayyy better! With 5.1 surround sound, it will scare you silly. Pick this one up! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Robertwelsh2
Rating: 8.3
Date: Nov 2, 2006 7:47 pm PT
Review:  The original FEAR blew people away, with its graphics, it's intense action, and lastly for the 
 desperate plight of a Special Forces soldier, who is part of a Paranormal investigation on a series 
 of supernatural events that happened in a Scientific Establishment.
  
  The story continues as play as a new addition to the Military's, First Encounter Assault and Recon 
 program. You are currently investigating a disaster which is apparently linked to a madman named 
 Paxton Fettle, a 'retired' Military Tactician Commander, who went haywire and corrupted a entire 
 army of clones, which are linked to himself. You will travel through the underground portion of 
 the structure all the way to the rooftops, while fighting a few different types of enemies. During 
 this wild goose chase, you will encounter an almost erie ghostly like form of a small child named 
 Alma, who rumours to have been a test subject in confinement in the building. She will give you 
 a constant spook throughout the game, but soon you she will grow on you, and you realise that she 
 is just a small nice little girl who just wants to give you some attention and maybe even some 
 encouragement as you two have tea parties and sleep overs. B-E-A-utiful. Oh, and don't forget the 
 Multi-player!
  
  But thats the good.
  
  After a while you will realise that the game gets repetitive, and you will see that you will be 
 fighting basically the same enemies throughout the game. Although the game gives you a bonus mission... 
 it's short and quite un satisfactory, more or less. But the worst part is the price tag, leveling 
 up at a whopping $59.99 Canadian. Lastly, if your playing on the Xbox 360 the controls are clumsy, 
 for the quick paced action, and lets just say that you have to get used to the button mashing.
 
  
  Overall the game is a must get for Horror and Action Genre lovers, and if you played the first 
 FEAR, then please do get this game. Please? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KDB
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 2, 2006 7:07 pm PT
Review:  After playing this title on the pc I can really see how close the xbox360 version is to the pc 
 version and there is virtually no difference. This game is different from other fps games because 
 of the attention to detail ,for example, the dust and debris created from bullets hitting the walls, 
 sparks fly when bullets hit metal objects and other small things one notices while playing that 
 makes you smile and say to yourself that was cool . The AI is almost unpredictable, the slow motion 
 option is amazing and sometimes a lifesaver. Overall I actually felt that I was playing a game 
 that Day1 Studios actually pulled all stops to create the best fps possible and set the bar high 
 for the competition. One of the few games that make the capabilities of the xbox360 shine... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pumph
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 2, 2006 3:11 pm PT
Review:  A FPS with good AI is hard to find.
  
  Here's an example. When you play the clone army baddies come and look for you, find where you are, 
 organize themselves, then sneak up on you.........
  
  Then one asks themselves if they are playing against a human or a machine.
  
  The AI is scary 
 good. AI this good in a FPS has exceeding value. Who needs multiplayer when you have bogey's that 
 are smarter and better than playing against a human?
  
  Graphics are good but I've seen better. Without the dynamic lighting the game would be average. 
 The textures are bland appear washed out and bland in spots.
  
  Character models are great. Animation is spot on.
  
  Level design is tedious, repetitve and 
 uninspired.
  
  Replay value is off the charts because the AI's reactions change based on what you do. Each time 
 you play things go different, especially if you play on harder settings.
  
  Enjoy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chex81
Rating: 8.6
Date: Dec 4, 2006 6:33 pm PT
Review:  Got the game the other day, locked in about 10 hours so far...
  
  4 hours of Single Player:
  Very fun with tons of action... visually the game is very impressive, 
 the controls are tight and the story telling is on par with a hollywood film. Almost everything 
 in the environment is interactive, so it gives an overall somewhat realistic feel. The only downside 
 is it seems a lot of the levels are recycled, which might confuse at times. Still, the single player 
 is fun and definitely worth a play through.
  
  6 hours of Multiplayer:
  Excellent... simply put. Lag free, easy to invite friends or join a match... no complications what-so-ever. 
 A ton of maps with visuals that actually look better than the single player. One of the better 
 online shooters for 360... think Quake meets Counterstrike meets Matrix... but mature.
  
  Overall, the game is incredible and i would recommend it to any shooter fan. I never played the 
 PC version so I cant compare... however I did play the XBL demo and the retail versions looks and 
 controls 10x better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Deltron7
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 2, 2006 1:29 pm PT
Review:  This game is a must buy for any FPS fans who own a 360.
  
  The sound is really good. From bullets whizzing by your head to the slomo explosions to the loud 
 visceral sound of the dual machine pistols. It is all top notch.
  
  The story is alright. Nothing too great though. The environments are very repetitive. That didn't 
 bother me but it might bother some people. This is what got the 9 in the value instead of the ten.
 
  
  The graphics are top notch as well. Especially the lighting. Shoot a light and it will bounce around 
 changing the shadows of everything in realtime.
  The particle effects are the best I have ever seen aswell. The A. I is by far the best part of this 
 game. It is fun just to mess around with one guy to see what he does. Stay still and he might try 
 and flank you or he might take cover and wait for you, or if there is no cover he will run to another 
 location to get some or he might make some cover by kicking over a couch or a desk. Get too close 
 and he will smack you with his gun or kick you in the head. They will also blind fire on occasion. 
 One guy blind fired from behind a wall with a shotgun holding it with one hand. The A. I. is great 
 working as a team as well. The will lay down suppressive fire while one guy tries to flank you.
 
  
  Multiplayer is really fun. The levels are relatively small and the action is intense. Especially 
 if slomo is added. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sergiosissylala
Rating: 9.9
Date: Nov 2, 2006 11:54 am PT
Review:  First I'll say I never played this on the computer version. I didn't feel like buying it. Once 
 I heard it was coming out for the 360 I was a little intrigued because I heard it was kind of a 
 freaky game. Well it lives up to everything I heard about it. I got it yesterday and played for 
 the longest time i've ever played a new game the first day, other than Oblivion. This game is awesome, 
 freaky and just totally bad ass. It has it's fair share of glitches but if you can look past that 
 then you have yourself a great game. The graphics are great and it does have a freakin scary element 
 to it. I love the gunfights theyre so great. I mean the bullets to damage to the wall and everything. 
 If you like intense first person shooters that are kinda scary this is your game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tiggerboy
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 2, 2006 11:20 am PT
Review:  When I played F. E. A. R. on the P. C. I was amazed by how compeling the story was! I feel the same 
 way when playing the 360 version. The gameplay is awesome. The cut scenes have that horror-movie 
 feel to them. The fact that you can skip the cut scenes by simply pausing the game and selecting 
 skip scene is a great add on. The gunplay feels really good, even though the controller layout 
 is frustrating. I don't know how many times I pressed the Y button to do something other than use 
 a damn medkit! I have been killed roughly 3275 times by a grenade that I did not even know was 
 there! Anyways, the game is a great add on to the collection for all you FPS enthusiasts. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DominicanAG
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 5, 2006 11:02 am PT
Review:  So you're a rookie that's apart of a squad called the First Encounter Assault Recon. Usually their 
 job is to investigate paranormal situations and are the first to inspect these rare jobs assignments. 
 So you're brief on the subject matter about this Military Master mind commander called Patton Fettel 
 who is in charge of a army of clones that was created from this one super solider. As you're watching 
 video tapes of what Fettel is doing it's crazy. This guy has gone completely mad and is eating 
 people alive. He's sending his army of clones to terminate people for him as he feeds of the corpse. 
 Your first mission is to go inspect this area with your squad members and see what went wrong. 
 When you get there you're alerted about the situation and go in to see what happens but before 
 your squad is able to enter the facilities they are excuted and burned alive before entering the 
 area. So you're end up alone walking into these unknow office building to see what is going on. 
 As you're walking around you'll have moments that you'll have encounters with these super soliders. 
 There will be times that it'll be so quiet that you're expecting something to happen. Sometimes 
 you'll see a ghost walking around and disappearing before your eyes. There will be times you'll 
 see this little girl that from what I've encountered seems like Fettel and the little girl are 
 linked. The more you go further into the story the more you find out what really happen to this 
 commander. The graphics and the sound effects are great in this game. The Slow motion affects and 
 bullet time is what makes the gameplay so great in this game. Also you have surpport up to 16 players 
 on multiplayer. On MP you'll able to use the Slow motion affects as well which is fantastic and 
 you can set your own settings on how you want to play on MP. This game is great if you're looking 
 for a scare and shooting the heads off a super solider in slow motion than you should definitely 
 check this game out and add it to your collection of first person shooters. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: onlybushras
Rating: 8.9
Date: Nov 2, 2006 7:38 am PT
Review:  F. E. A. R. is one of the best First -person -shooters out there. It features outstanding artificial 
 intelligence, resulting in some extremely intense firefights. The A. I. will go to any lengths to 
 pin you down, something you must experience to believe. It is actually like being the hero in your 
 own hollywood blockbuster action movie, with amazing special effects and slow motion advantages. 
 The slow-motion advantage isnt something innovative, but the way its implemented is great, besides 
 the fact that its something you will need to defeat the hordes of enemies you encounter during 
 some instances. You can see particles of debris, shell casings, with realistic and sligtly exaggerated 
 physics. The visuals are even slightly better than the pc version which is saying a lot, since 
 this was one of the most graphics intensive game on the pc. Add to that Dolby digital surround 
 sound, that provides action sound effects and supports the eerie atmosphere and environment of 
 the game during frightening parts, thus creating a very immersive experience . The frame rate holds 
 up even in the most explosive action sequences, which is very important for a first -person shooter. 
 The Single player campaigngs normal difficulty feels just right, challenging enough for the first 
 time through, and should last you roughly about ten hours, possibly more on higher difficulty settings. 
 The online multiplayer elements add to the value. It may not replace Halo2 or Ghost Recon Advanced 
 Warfighter, but its still fun. There are the usual death match, team death match, elimitation and 
 team elemination modes. Something new incorporated in a multiplayer mode is that you can use the 
 slow motion advantage, although only one player can use it at any given time. The controls are 
 mapped pretty well to the Xbox 360 controller, though it may take a bit of time getting used to. 
 It works well for the most part. Sadly it doesnt support south-paw or advaced customization. The 
 story and setting is great, though the climax is not entirely satisfying as you still may have 
 questions left unanswered at the end. The environments, no matter how stunning to look at do get 
 a bit monotonous, as the game goes on. Thankfully the spectacular last few levels help pick up 
 the pace and mood. The Xbox 360 achievements seem to be designed for die-hard gamers, since they 
 are really hard to achieve. These are the few minor shortcomings about an otherwise excellent experience. 
 There isnt much more to warrant a purchase for those who already played it on a high-end pc with 
 surround sound, but anyone who hasnt played this game the way its meant to be played will find 
 some of the most thrilling, scary, action-filled gaming moments here. To summarize, if you own 
 an Xbox 360 and your a fan of the super-natural and/or even remotely like first-person shooters, 
 and you still have not experiences this on the pc, whether it wasnt powerful enough to support 
 the game or you didnt have a chance, it is a must buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marcod1
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 2, 2006 7:05 am PT
Review:  I thought condemned was a scary game... but WOW!!
  
  This is as creepy as it gets..... I LOVE THIS GAME AND DON T WANT IT TO END.
  
  Please release 
 a follow up. When i ropped down onto the loading docks in one of the first scenes i thought.. ok, 
 just another FPS level to get through , but, when those gates opened, WOW, between the creepy dusk 
 skyline and the pelicans making noises oh so faintly, walking through the building was as spine 
 tingling as it gets. The game play is very smooth and th graphics are the best i've seen. I haven't 
 seen computer graphics but if they are better then it must be out of this world.
  
  This is ine of the top 3 FPS games i have ever played. It made me foget about NHL 07 (online) completely.
 
  
  Worth every penny 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LegendofYaslint
Rating: 8.4
Date: Nov 2, 2006 6:44 am PT
Review:  My biggest gripe about FEAR for the PC was that it seemed like a relatively shallow FPS at heart 
 with only a couple fancly bells and whistles dressing it up to impress the more casual gamers. 
 Sad to say, Monolith did little to solve these issues for the 360 as the game is pretty much a 
 direct port with a couple little extras that never amount to much.
  
  The game still looks good, with nice textures, a great lighting system, and wonderful particle 
 effects. It's hard to call FEAR dated, but it's not the graphical powerhouse it was a year ago 
 for the PC. What FEAR also does visually is create a lot of atmosphere. The game shamelessly borrows 
 from the Japanese horror movies of much success like The Ring , and seems to stick these elements 
 in for effect rather than for deepening the story much. It feels more like a gimmick than anything, 
 but it does somewhat save the game from feeling too dull due to such repetative level design and 
 lack of environmental variation. The AI is still great in FEAR and this is the game's greatest 
 strength. It's worth at least a rental just to see what most FPS game's should be doing in the 
 AI department. They use cover, flanking, cover fire, and grenades strategically and to great effect. 
 It really helps the combat feel more intense and dynamic. The slow motion bullet time effect is 
 another aspect that feels more like a gimmick and does little to improve the gameplay, other than 
 give you a sometimes much needed advantage. The controls can be adjusted yet the button layout 
 nevers feels quite right. The game plays well enough, but it just doesn't have that natural feel 
 other FPS console games like Halo or Half Life 2 pulled off. The multiplayer portion is fun but 
 nothing special. It has some lag issues but nothing crippling. You might get a couple hours out 
 of it but most will likely grow tired of it in a week or two.
  
  In short, FEAR is a solid game for those who like a challenging FPS with smart enemies, tense action, 
 a dark style, and a whole lot of pop-culture horror aspects thrown in for good (at times) measure. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dashizy666
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 2, 2006 2:59 am PT
Review:  Ok I have the PC game the Extraction point expansion pack, and now I have the 360 game. So I spent 
 $130 on this game alone. Why because this game rocks thats why. Lets me count the ways. Gore Check, 
 foul language check, great story check, scary WTF moments check, slow-mo gimmick check, smart as 
 hell AI check, graphics to die for check. To be honest I can for on forever on what does right. 
 I only hope we can somehow download extraction point and fear combat. later on in the future. WTF 
 was gamespot thinking when they gave this game an 8.6 anyway? I love this game and well this should 
 keep me busy until Gears come out. Oh yeah and the multiplayer rocks also. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VooDoo1144
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 2, 2006 1:48 am PT
Review:  I never got the chance to play the PC version... I wished I had, but I don't have that kind of money 
 for a PC... anyways... FEAR is one of those games that really show you what next gen truly means 
 on the 360... while most 360 games try to jack up the visuals as much as possible and still offer 
 watered down gameplay... this one takes next gen concepts by the horns. Story. The story is pretty 
 good... it is better than Halo because it actually evolves as you play instead of making you read 
 books and research outside of the game... I won't get into the plot but I will tell you that it 
 does justify itself pretty well and does hold up enough to stay interesting. Graphics. The graphics 
 are great... the models look amazing and move in a fluid manner... the Bullet time effect is gorgous 
 and the very movie like feel to the scare sequences are really top notch. The bad part is that 
 you really get bored of the levels... they are bland and lack alot of the texture detail that you 
 would expect when you see the characters in the game... sometimes it almost reminds me of the old 
 Rainbow six games for the PC... everything looks like it is in a videogame... not like some games 
 that look like real life locations like Splinter Cell double agent. The sound. I love everything 
 about the sound... sometimes the voices seem like they could be a little louder but overall... this 
 is the best feature of the game... it makes it scary and tense almost all the time. The gameplay. 
 This game is very very fun... you keep playing just because you want to take on one more group of 
 amazingingly smart enemies... The controls are one part that I am not fond of though... they feel 
 to loose sometimes... maybe I just need to charge my controller... but I frequently felt like I was 
 losing control of my character... this is a small issue that i make sound alot bigger. I have yet 
 to play Multiplayer... I will update tomarrow on that. Stay tuned 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Funny_bunch71
Rating: 8.9
Date: Nov 1, 2006 11:21 pm PT
Review:  Pros: Great graphics particle effects are amazing, sound is just as creepy and intense as I expected, 
 controls are implemented well easy to use and feel comfortable, Multiplayer is solid and intense 
 just like the pc version and for most part lag free.
  
  Cons: Multiplayer lobby's end right after the game ends, further custimization of controls could 
 have made them feel better.
  
  Fear has proven that the pc top shooter of 2005 can be carried over to a console flawlessly and 
 continue to dominate in the competition. The main storey took me about 8 hours to play through 
 and was extreamlly intense and creepy leaving me wondering whether I was going to be heading towards 
 a gun fight or the creepy twists of the storey. The Frame rate seems very stable and I didn't notice 
 any slow downs or choppyness while I played through. The bonus mission wasnt much of a bonus as 
 it was a 5 minute playthrough in the body of another character of which does not have slow motion 
 capabilities!. Fear has once again impressed me on the Xbox 360 as it did the Pc and has proven 
 to be one of the great shooters out there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VincentV21
Rating: 8.6
Date: Nov 1, 2006 10:27 pm PT
Review:  This Review is Spoiler Free!
  
  An easy way to describe F. E. A. R. is Silent Hill meets Counter-Strike. This PC port does what few 
 others can in the area of ports: it works. Everything from the single player creepiness to the 
 fast, arcade meets realistic gunfights of the multiplayer mode; it all comes together so well.
 
  
  Graphically the game looks great. A lot of people couldnt run F. E. A. R. at its highest settings 
 on their PC, so its nice to be able to run it at full speed and not get any slowdown. The creepy 
 atmosphere comes across brilliantly (especially in high def with surround sound) and the story 
 and visuals really do a good job of creeping you out at just the right moments.
  
  The same can be said of the audio presentation of the game. Supernatural whispers, chatter over 
 radio, machinegun fire whizzing by your ear, it all sounds great in this game. Make sure you turn 
 the lights off, and turn your speakers up when playing the single player game.
  
  Multiplayer is fun, with the right settings. It reminded me of oldschool Counter-Strike, in the 
 area of speed and realism meets arcade gameplay. I found the bullet time power up that you can 
 enable in the game to be slightly annoying at times, but I got over it. I prefer to play without 
 it though. Games that are setup to not last long are a tad annoying, but they arent too frequent 
 to honestly gripe about.
  
  As of the release of the game on the 360, there is no additional content to download for the game 
 on XB Live. Hopefully we will get some new maps or weapons in the future, and maybe even the expansion 
 pack the PC got just recently.
  
  Overall, I am glad I picked this up, and I think all FPS fans who own a 360 will enjoy this game. 
 At least, think of it as the appetizer before Gears of Wars! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rappermile
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 1, 2006 9:33 pm PT
Review:  F. E. A. R. is a title that was a port from a PC game that was 2005's game of the year. Nearing the 
 end of 2005 console players who didn't have the PC power to run games that take some serious graphical 
 power to play at its fullest, (icluding myself) , stared in awe as PC fans were able to play the 
 most intense game F. E. A. R. it stunned people with 2 things. Graphics, and its amazing horror storyline. 
 it showed the most amazing firefights everseen. You can see the most amazing gun fights were ashes 
 and debris are flying through the air and you can see in depth bullet holes in the walls and floors 
 and here and see bullets rickochet, but I'm just getting started here. Then the amazing AI and 
 creepy storyline come in. Now today 360 fans can finially relive the moments because F. E. A. R. is 
 finially on the Xbox 360.
  
  The xbox 360 version of F. E. A. R. just as well as the PC version did. You experience just as good 
 firefights that actaully seem better and you instantly just lovw the dust and debris that flies 
 and shatters everywhere. Not to coppy the real reviewers of the game but it does definitely seem 
 like a Jon Woo movie. The 360 version includes the F. E. A. R. campaign, a bonus featuring extra content 
 such as an exclusive episode of P. A. N. I. C. S. which was a short series machinima by the makers brought 
 you the fabulous Red vs. Blue episodes, (for anybody that somehow doesn't know yet season 5 of 
 RvB is out) , and other exclusive content on the bonus disk. This also features a bonus mission 
 where you take the role as a human soldier to escort a hostage to safety and in this mission your 
 slomo power up is taken away because you aren't playing as the main character, and then of course 
 the instant action mode where you play different firefights and then you get a score on it which 
 also gets posted to the F. E. A. R. leaderboards on xbox live. Also what makes F. E. A. R. also really 
 fun is the fact that it featues slo-mo capabilities and you can also does some sweet kick ass melee 
 attacks such as the roundhouse, or the bicycle kick and others. And of course the most popular 
 melee attack in most FPS', just smacking the crap out of someone with the rifle butt. Also what's 
 good is that you have the leaning ability and that's something most console shooters don't have. 
 Sure theres the thing where you hide behind walls and you have to wait for that little ticker or 
 whatever which tells that you can cover but in this you can just doing on the instead where you 
 are and whenever you want. The storyline is where you take the role of the Point man of the first 
 encounter assault recon team. (F. E. A. R. team) . Where you need to find and kill a rogue military 
 officer named Paxton Fettell who is telepathicly controlling a batallion of military clones. The 
 other part is to find out what's going on because there is a little ghost spirit named Olma who 
 popping out everywhere causing havoc on everything. You will see and here something comeing from 
 behind and you turn around to realize that nothing's there. As you play through the story you realize 
 somethings that will be the biggest shocker (and hell no I am not revieling this kick ass plot.) 
 Once you get to the campaign you can play some instant action which is totally awsome. (Oh did 
 I forget to mention that the campaign features machine pistols something that wasn't on the PC, 
 I guess I did.) Then when your done with that multiplayer is a blast which features the popular 
 deathmatch and team deathmatch as well as CTF and some sweet slo mo game types. The graphics are 
 still top knoch and there is no lag on the multiplayer. The only problem is where there is no post 
 game lobby so when the game is over, (this includes non ranked matches) , it takes you back to the 
 screen. Which kind of sucks but whatever. Oh life is so hard I get a really kick ass shooter but 
 there is no post game lobby so I am going to kill myself. Please get over it. So over all you got 
 top noch graphics, amazing AI, incredible sound, great storyline, and awsome multiplayer. This is 
 simply a must buy and play game of the year. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spike3oOo
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 1, 2006 6:13 pm PT
Review:  Fear Was an amazing title back on PC, and now it has finally been released on the 360! Read on 
 to see how it translates.
  
  Graphically wow, this is truely a game that can easily be mentioned next to the big ops in the 
 visual department. F. E. A. R is absolutly amazing looking. Everything from the charecter designs, 
 the physics, the amazing lighting, and shadows, and of course the levels them self all look top 
 notch. The Graphics look every bit as good as a High powered computer, and runs at a great steady 
 framerate that feels much smoother than it did on PC!
  
  The Gameplay is what you would get if you put Max Payne, Resident Evil, Doom 3, and Japanese horror 
 movies like Ring all in a blender. And my god the results are absolutly fantastic! What makes the 
 game work so great, and play so awesomely is the games awesome arsenal, the slow motion, and the 
 endless array of eniemes.
  
  But its more than just that, the AI itself is extremly smart. They will flank you from all around, 
 come up to you and hit you, hide behind boxes, and stick there guns over and shoot at you, and 
 even jump through windows and more.
  
  This makes for a very engaging and fun time. The Game is easily one of the best fps games on the 
 360 yet! I Highly Reccomend checking it out if you havent or even if you have played the PC one, 
 the new Instant Action mode is worth the purchase alone as well as the new bonus missions and awesome 
 achivements 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stixes14
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 1, 2006 11:29 am PT
Review:  What can i say i loce FEAR. But the most part is that it has a very scary parts which is kind of 
 good and bad because some people might say it sucks to scary rent it first but nope its a buy if 
 you in to games like this.
  
  Ok so here is the lay out, it has a awesome single player and a multiplayer.
  for Single Player 
 its easy and hard but fun and some parts are too scary but its awesome and as for the Multiplayer 
 its alright and fum cause the Slow MO TDM is AWESOME!!!! but i would buy it. so my RATING IS&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; 
 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
