-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: F.E.A.R. Files
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/xbox360/action/fearfiles/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Two stand-alone FEAR campaigns for fans that want more.
 Extraction Point offers a blend of action and atmosphere.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Perseus Mandate is the weakest of the FEAR games.
 It's also the ugliest.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov 27, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7
Critic Score: 6.6, 45 Review (s)
User Score: 7.7, 558 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Sierra Entertainment
Developer: TimeGate Studios
Genre: Sci-Fi First-Person...
Date: Nov 6, 2007
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
F. E. A. R. Files serves up two stand-alone expansions for F. E. A. R., though one is definitely stronger 
 than the other. 

  2005's F. E. A. R. for the PC was an excellent example of how to blend atmospheric horror and even 
 more atmospheric gun battles together to make for a great first-person shooting experience. But 
 when F. E. A. R. debuted on the Xbox 360 a year ago, 360 gamers didn't get the Extraction Point expansion 
 that later appeared on the PC. Fast forward a year later, and a second expansion, Perseus Mandate, 
 had also been released for the PC. Accordingly, Sierra has packaged both expansions together into 
 F. E. A. R. Files, a stand-alone package for the Xbox 360.  

           Extraction Point has you running for your life yet again.      

  Although you needn't 
 have played F. E. A. R. to play F. E. A. R. Files, it will certainly help in your understanding of what's 
 going on. In both expansions, you play as a member of the military's elite First Encounter Assault 
 Recon team, which specializes in paranormal activity. As such, you're blessed with not only a prodigious 
 loadout of weapons, but also superfast reflexes that let you enter a bullet-time slow-motion effect, 
 much like in  The Matrix . In the original game, you battled an army of clone soldiers and their 
 mad commander in the fictional city of Auburn. Along the way, you encountered Alma, the ghost of 
 a little girl, who is capable of killing anyone with her mind. As you'd expect, the events of the 
 first game explain the nature of Alma as well as Paxton Fettle, the renegade military commander. 

  In Extraction Point, you return as the "point man" of the original game, and the action picks up 
 immediately after the stunning climax of F. E. A. R. You find yourself once again deep in the city 
 of Auburn, surrounded by an army of clone soldiers and spooky paranormal phenomena. But instead 
 of trying to figure out what's going on, you're simply trying to battle your way out of the city. 
 Extraction Point's plot is literally summed up by the phrase, "Get to the chopper." If you've played 
 the original F. E. A. R., there's a bit of irony here, in that getting to a helicopter seems to be 
 a recurring theme throughout the series. Regardless, it makes for a solid game because the firefights 
 and visuals hold up.  

  However, there's a marked step down in quality when it comes to Perseus Mandate. The second F. E. A. R. 
 expansion lets you play as a new character, but it's hard to tell the difference because you've 
 got the same superfast reflexes as the first character, and you're seeing pretty much all of the 
 same things that you've seen in F. E. A. R. and Extraction Point. That burden of sameness permeates 
 the entire experience. But it gets worse when the gameplay in Perseus Mandate veers away from the 
 cool firefights against cunning opponents to a more twitch-heavy style of action. You don't have 
 to think on your feat as much as have lightning-fast and accurate reflexes. To make matters even 
 worse, Perseus Mandate looks visually worse than Extraction Point and F. E. A. R., in that it offers 
 up incredibly dull and in some cases primitive environments.  

           You'll see plenty more of these clone soldiers in F. E. A. R. Files.      

  Aside from 
 the two single-player campaigns, F. E. A. R. Files offers up an instant-action mode that lets you 
 battle waves of computer-controlled opponents. Instant action is a bit like a time trail; you try 
 to get through a level as fast as possible, and then upload your score to a leaderboard. There's 
 also a full multiplayer option that offers the familiar modes such as deathmatch, team deathmatch, 
 and capture the flag. The slow-motion ability also plays a role as a power-up that can be picked 
 up and used by a single player. The downside is that the location of the slow-motion ability carrier 
 is highlighted for everyone to see. Unfortunately, the multiplayer community isn't as active as 
 it used to be, given that there are a ton of superior multiplayer games on Xbox Live now. So the 
 bulk of F. E. A. R. Files gameplay is in its single-player components, which add up to about 10 to 
 12 hours of gameplay.  

  All in all, this is a solid package that appeals directly to Xbox 360 F. E. A. R. fans looking for 
 more. Those who haven't played F. E. A. R. yet should check out that game first, though, because jumping 
 directly into F. E. A. R. Files without playing the first game is sort of like starting a book or 
 movie in the middle.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (31 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: wwekane
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 29, 2009 3:34 pm PT
Review:  F. E. A. R Files is great because it's two games in one. The games are long as well so there is a 
 lot to do. Extraction Point is better than Perseus Mandate. The thing I don't like is that the 
 game play, the graphics, and the controls are all the same. The cool thing is Extraction Point 
 is continued from the original F. E. A. R. Perseus Mandate was something new but didn't have anything 
 to do with the continuing storyline. There were only one or two different types of guns. The multiplayer 
 stinks just like it did in F. E. A. R. There were no new enemies so I knew what I was up against. 
 The visions were a little freakier in both games but more in Extraction Point nonetheless they 
 were both freakier than the original. I would recomend this game if they are a fan of the original 
 but it's not really a game to play unless you know the story. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eajack
Rating: 6.5
Date: Feb 10, 2009 8:07 am PT
Review:  There's nothing revolutionary about the Extraction Point and Perseus Mandate missions which add 
 on to the story already told in F. E. A. R. Heck, there's nothing even evolutionary about it. You 
 just get more of the same. The same boring levels set in office buildings, hospitals, and industrial 
 areas. The same combat. The same scares. It's the same game as F. E. A. R., just more of it.
  
  Extraction Point takes place immediately after the events of F. E. A. R. In fact, it begins with 
 the cinematic that ended the full game. You are the same F. E. A. R operative once again trapped in 
 Auburn trying to find a way out. After slogging through a few levels that really remind you of 
 what you did in the first game, you eventually reach the ending which leaves you in more of a cliffhanger 
 than the original ending.
  
  Perseus Mandate is an alternate mission where you play a member of a second F. E. A. R. squad. It 
 begins before the explosion in Auburn, and ends at about the same time as the Extraction Point 
 mission does. Here you are tasked with finding out more about this Perseus project... which is 
 really just like the same stuff you've been doing all through the original F. E. A. R. and in Extraction 
 Point.
  
  The only real revelation is some added insight into Alma. But again, like the original game, everything 
 is very enigmatic and like an X-Files or Lost episode, leaves you with more questions that you 
 got answers. There are also a handful of instant action maps which are subsets or alterations of 
 levels where you have a set amount of time to clear the levels of baddies. Instant action is just 
 that... full action and shooting, with no story or scares.
  
  A couple benefits of F. E. A. R. Files? It is a stand-alone "game", meaning you don't need to have 
 your F. E. A. R. game or save files on hand anymore. Oh, and the achievements are a little more generous. 
 In all of F. E. A. R., I only got 35 gamerscore total. In Files, I got over 500. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Payasoplas
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 8, 2009 8:50 pm PT
Review:  I can't believe it, 6 months ago this game was at the excessive price of $750 Mx pesos (about $70 
 USD) and now it is just a third of its price, so I couldn't get a greater deal for this game, even 
 for that excessive full price when new is still worth.
  
  F. E. A. R. FILES is a package of 2 EXPANSION PACKS, so don't expect a new graphics engine or a 100% 
 new stroyline, the game looks great and plays the same, it has a few new additions, 2 more weapons 
 in Extraction Point and 2 more in Perseus mandate and much more enemies, in Perseus Mandate there's 
 also a whole new faction and they are tough to fight with.
  
  F. E. A. R. would be incomplete without Extraction Point, because it adds more to the storyline and 
 it is more creepy than the original one, Perseus Mandate is also great, even if many people don't 
 think it is, and both games are very very hard, that's good because today you can finish most games 
 in about 4 or 5 hours.
  
  Perseus Mandate has some of the most scary moments in the saga and it has more variety, there's 
 still offices and labs but now there are caves, streests and even levels in daylight.
  
  The new weapons are awesome and the new enemies are even scary, you have to play this game before 
 you play Project Origin, that way you'll understand many things about the storyline of the saga.
 
  
  This package is one of the best deals you'll find, you won't regret it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cannabis64
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 15, 2009 1:03 pm PT
Review:  I picked this game up under the impression that it would give me more insight into the story behind 
 F. E. A. R. however I soon learned that these two expansions actually took the story a different route 
 then was intended by the creators. This realization bummed me out greatly. However I can still 
 say that extraction point was a great game, that I enjoyed beginning to end, however was confused 
 by it when lil Alma started helping me, being a little bit hazy on F. E. A. R. I let it slide until 
 I learned the above info. Still EP had some good scares and some fun gameplay. Now on to Perseus 
 Mandate... this game seemed to lack what made F. E. A. R. a great game, the scares. In PM your a different 
 Fear team who encounters some spookies, and entirely to many enemies, with too little info on whats 
 going on. With the fear taken out of fear it turns into a frustrating game of not enough health 
 packs. Granted I only play on hardest difficulties, but this is usually a non-issue for me. Now 
 normally I would give props on a hard game, instead im gunna say this don't mess with games that 
 you don't understand third-party developers... you affected a great games fan base negatively and 
 that is unforgivable.
  
  Also not enough people play this game online. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamer-clemm
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 6, 2008 9:13 pm PT
Review:  -----------------------
  Gameplay: Good
  Sound: Okay
  Graphics Good
  Replay Value: Moderate
  -----------------------
  
  There are two games within the Files: 
 Extraction Point and Perseus Mandate. The first game on the disc is Extraction Point, which starts 
 right from where the first F. E. A. R. ended. You are in the helicopter after the big explosion, where 
 suddenly on the helicopter everything appears to be shutting down and then you see Alma. The helicopter 
 crashes and you start the game from the crash site.
  
  The second game on the disc is Persues Mandate. This game is a little bit longer than Extraction 
 Point, but not as spooky nor as entertaining. Nothing very special to it. Basically the only thing 
 difference from Perseus to Extraction is that in Perseus when you find the laptops to download 
 files, a lot of them have voice messages. A lot of them, the people are being killed by supernatural 
 things.
  
  Both games don't have the best of game graphics, but considering when they were made, I guess they 
 are okay. The sound is sort of good, I love the sound of the shotgun though. Voice acting ain't 
 the best. So overall the game is pretty good.
  
  -------------------------
  Recommend?
  Only to those who like to be scared, or like shooters
  ------------------------- 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DIABETUS
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 21, 2008 1:52 pm PT
Review:  When I first got F. E. A. R. on the 360 (and tried it on the PC) , it was awesome. Blood, explosive 
 environments, and slow-motion effects, with the mix of tactical maneuvers, plenty of horror moments, 
 and a unique storyline.
  
  I got F. E. A. R. Files and I was quite disappointed.
  
  Now about the two games themselves... 
  
  The Expansion game (Extraction Point) , picks up the 
 story from the original F. E. A. R., where you play as the Point Man in the aftermath of the explosion 
 within the city. It's not as bad as you'd think. Although it is the same environment as the original, 
 it adds on to the storyline and pits you up against a new kind of horror with some twists to the 
 plot here and there. There are some new weapons, but that's pretty much it. Only true F. E. A. R. 
 fans will enjoy playing it to learn what happens to the main character.
  
  The second game is Perseus Mandate, which follows a second F. E. A. R. team (not the Point Man) during 
 the original game and during Extraction Point, where you are faced with a secret mercenary group, 
 the Replicas (enemies from the original) , ATC Security, AND new paranormal enemies. Unfortunately, 
 it completely sucked.
  Long story short: The surroundings and environment look clunky and quickly made, horror aspects 
 in the game aren't as good as the original, and the AI are probably the most cheapest opponents 
 you'll ever face. There is NOTHING new about this game, except that there are some moments where 
 you might jump from the TV and the occasional interest in the new storyline, but other than that, 
 it's not exactly worth playing. 
  
  Bottom line: repetitive, repetitive, repetitive.
  
  It's obvious to see that Sierra made this game for the benefit of quick cash and hoping to seize 
 more money just before their big release of their sequel: Project Origin.
  
  So, while there are the same aspects from the original F. E. A. R., if you're willing to try and find 
 out more from the storyline through the game, it couldn't hurt to rent it and try it for yourself, 
 but seriously, you'll feel empty and wanting more when it's finally over.
  
  I hope Sierra and Monolith will find it in their hearts to add and surprise gamers in Project Origin, 
 ESPECIALLY in the storyline. That's what most games lack today: an awesome storyline and a decent 
 game play, and clearly F. E. A. R. Files lack all of the above! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Atreyu606
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 16, 2008 9:00 pm PT
Review:  I played the first F. E. A. R., and I thought it was fantastic. I have been PUMPED for F. E. A. R. 2: 
 Project Origin for a long time, and I figured a great way to pass my F. E. A. R. cravings and get 
 me ready for F. E. A. R. 2 would be to pick up this one. And I couldn't have been more right. There 
 are two complete expansions that allow for hours and hours of gameplay, some awesome and creepy 
 moments, and some encounters that are just truly brutal and amazing. I've beaten both campaigns 
 twice and I am going to go over them again to pick up those last few achievements. The Instant 
 Action maps are also new and allow for some quick "pick up and gun" for those who are just looking 
 to kick ass and take names, and they also pose a seriously challenge for those achievement hunters 
 like me, which should give them a few more hours of frustration, but will eventually be rewarded 
 for their efforts. In conclusion, this is a great game, and at the price of about 20 bucks, you 
 can't go wrong picking this up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FelisLeo1980
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 12, 2008 5:04 am PT
Review:  F. E. A. R. Files contains 2 expansion packs for the original F. E. A. R.: Extraction Point and Perseus 
 Mandate. The first one of these is by far the superior.
  
  Extraction Point starts just where the original game ended. Extraction helicopter crash lands in 
 the vicinity of Origin Facility and now it's up to you again as the Point Man to survive to a new 
 extraction point. On the way you'll learn more about what is really going on, but unfortunately 
 the F. E. A. R. saga doesn't reach its conclusion in the end like it did in Doom 3's Expansion Pack 
 Resurrection of Evil for example. Instead you are left wanting for more or being sorely disappointed 
 by the story.
  
  Extraction Point is a clear case on how a game can be made better: it's superior to the original 
 game in almost every way. Graphics have much more color, environments are more varied, interactive 
 and most of all: much brighter than last time. Open spaces are used more instead of just narrow 
 corridors one after another and the story is told through cutscenes instead of phone messages and 
 laptop computers, which you need to find yourself. Point Man is in contact with other F. E. A. R. 
 members a lot more this time around, which creates a feel of team work in the game. Also checkpoints 
 are much more frequent and the game is not too long: it ends just when it starts to feel boring. 
 Good thing is also that the focus is now more on exploring and creating a scary mood instead of 
 just straight run-and-gun shooting.
  
  Audiovisual presentation is almost identical to the original game, but now music is used much more 
 and it's a great component in adding a feel of scaryness. Other thing is that the sound of firing 
 a gun is now a lot more satisfying.
  
  In the end Extraction Point is a great addition to the saga of F. E. A. R. and it brings hope that 
 maybe the upcoming F. E. A. R. 2: Project Origin can actually be an A quality FPS game.
  
  Perseus Mandate is another story, because it happens side by side the original game. You are a 
 member of another F. E. A. R. team named just as Sergeant. For some reason you also have that same 
 super reflex thing (slow-mo) the enhanced Point Man had. Since this game happens at the same as 
 the original, its only function is to clarify things that happened in Origin Facility. Story moves 
 forward via in-game cutscenes and radio dialog instead of voice messages and laptop computers. 
 This is a good thing.
  
  You are now even more part of a team fighting alongside them much more frequently than ever before. 
 Unfortunately this also means that exploring and mood has been changed to a straight forward run-and-gun 
 action. In short it's just boring.
  
  Graphics are the worst in series' history: character models are blocky and there are no details 
 in environments. Navigating through these levels in Perseus Mandate doesn't give you anything new 
 in pretty much any way and on top of that the frame rate takes a serious hit way too often. Luckily 
 the audio side is done as well as it was in Extraction Point.
  
  Perseus Mandate is an unnecessary add-on to the F. E. A. R. saga so my advice is to skip it entirely.
 
  
  The main question still remains: should you buy this game? If you enjoyed the original game then 
 by all means check your bargain bin. Just be prepared that only one of these expansion packs is 
 worth playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nathan-g-young
Rating: 1
Date: Sep 2, 2008 2:04 pm PT
Review:  Garbage graphics, storyline and gameplay period. Graphics look similar to something you'd see on 
 playstation one. Storyline was boring and disingenuous. And the gameplay was excruciatingly boring 
 and tedious. 
  
  I really liked F. E. A. R. on my PC, but due to this cleverly packaged crapfest, I will not be playing 
 another F. E. A. R. game on xbox 360. And I highly suggest you don't either. It is nothing more than 
 a quick paycheck for Seirra, there was zero effort put into this game and it shows. 
  
  If your still in doubt rent it then. Make sure you put away all of the sharp objects in your house 
 because after about 10 minutes of gameplay you will want to poke your damn eyeballs out. 
  
  This game would have been cool if it was released around 6 years ago when all console game 
 graphics were on the same level. I'm blown away that Microsoft allowed this game to release on 
 360, it would have been better suited on the old xbox console. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: picklesrocks
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 2, 2008 1:18 pm PT
Review:  F. E. A. R files is a standalone pack of both the F. E. A. R expansion packs: extraction point and perseus 
 mandate but you should have played the first F. E. A. R to play these, otherwise it would be like 
 a story without a beggining now for the review.
  
  Extraction point: The better of the two, Extraction point has some thrills and creepy moments and 
 the story is not too bad either because it continues almost exactly from the end of the first. 
 The graphics are a bit dated but not unbearable as you have some engaging firefights and blow up 
 some unlucky enemy with the still fantastic grenade explosions and the awesome slo-mo feature. 
 The only dissapointing thing with extracion point its the ending, im not going to give it away 
 but if you know what happens you'll understand because its so....... rubbish, it was the worst ending 
 they could have picked i suppose. 8/10
  
  Perseus Mandate: The worst out of the two, Perseus Mandate is the more recent of the two which 
 you would expect better graphics but this actually is the opposite with some awful textures and 
 tacky blood effects. The game is not scary at all and is very predictable, the most stupid idea 
 that the developers put in were these black holes that have an enemy grab you in, great the first 
 time but after about twenty? The effect wears off fast and you can tell when they are coming because 
 you see a little black hole appear so you let out a *sigh* and run in to it shoot the enemy a couple 
 of times and continue. The story in Perseus Mandate is....... limited at best it doesnt have any 
 real sense of emergency and lacks scary moments to keep the suspense. You are even accopanied with 
 some squadmates at first but are pretty dumb and their annoying dialogue ruins whatever atmosphere 
 there is and somehow if you get infront of them they suddenly are at the next area telling you 
 to hurry up. The environments are also quite repetitive, especially on the last level. In all Perseus 
 Mandate is quite fun but not worth getting the whole game for. 6/10 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: slipper_1
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 20, 2008 11:28 am PT
Review:  this game is great to play when you want to feel scared either byself or with a friend, easier 
 to watch then to play. the action is good probably not the best but still good including the weapons. 
 but the horror, suspense, and the disturbing parts are pretty much rememborable. same with the 
 storyline.
  
  my first horror game was the suffering, scared the **** out of me when i was like 8, but when played 
 the first fear that was over the top for me. the multiplayer isnt the best also but still fun to 
 play only problem is that no one plays live too often on it.
  
  well overall i do think that this is a great game... besides some parts that are hard to watch.
 
  
  alright hold on dont this im just doing this i can post it on. hahaha!
  kkkkkkllll llhhhhhhg gggg qqwwwp pqqgg bvf gdxesa zqztrui oommk jhbhkkfflld hhaattew bhddy5te 
::::::

::::::
UserName: captainduncan
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 12, 2008 3:15 pm PT
Review:  I played F. E. A. R. I loved F. E. A. R. Now that Project Origin has a solid release date, I'm counting 
 the days until I can get my paws on more  I saw F. E. A. R. 
 Files on the shelf at GameStop with the relatively small $30 price tag and the F. E. A. R. logo and 
 had to buy it. 
  
  -Extraction Point
  Extraction Point feels like a real expansion pack and a worthy continuation of the original game. 
 The combat is just as satisfying and the horror scenes occur more often and are just as blood-chilling. 
 Extraction Point's fifth and final interval is my favorite in the series; coincidentally my most 
 frightening experience out of all of the game's entries is found in this level. There is quite 
 a bit of recycled content and the level design is still rather drab. There are some new weapons, 
 which is always welcome, but they don't really add to the experience. Overall it is a very well 
 done expansion to an awesome game. 
  
  -Perseus Mandate
  This is where Timegate decided they could cash in on the F. E. A. R. moniker and completely crap out 
 in the quality department. Perseus Mandate doesn't even attempt to be scary until well into the 
 game and even then, the genuinely creepy moments are overshadowed by a seeming disinterest on the 
 part of the developer, and at times some situations come off as corny; they seemed to be trying 
 too hard to create a scary atmosphere. The story is nonsensical and the new weapons are underwhelming. 
 The amount of recycled content is unforgivable- the player even spends an entire level inside Armacham's 
 HQ: a level from the first game. The game itself just feels like filler. There are some cool moments 
 in Perseus Mandate; it's too bad that they are surrounded by junk and filler.
  
  If Project Origin has piqued your interest and you want to get into the F. E. A. R. series before 
 it's release, go ahead and rent/buy F. E. A. R. If you're looking at F. E. A. R. Files for an expansion 
 of the story, you're better off waiting for Project Origin, the series' true sequel: F. E. A. R. Files' 
 story isn't considered canon. If you've played F. E. A. R. and want some more of it's stellar gameplay, 
 feel free to rent F. E. A. R. Files- just don't expect to be blown away. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 09231991
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 11, 2008 5:38 pm PT
Review:  Fear Files contains the two expansion packs from the PC into one package. The two expansions are 
 Extraction Point and Perseus Mandate. Extraction Point takes place right after the first one where 
 a massive explosion occurs and your flown out of the city. Perseus Mandate takes place during both 
 as you play as a different character and travel through different areas and complete different 
 objectives. The issues I have with this game is the graphics. I am kind of disappointed that they 
 didn't increase the graphics for the 360 port but I guess it still looks okay. A lot of areas look 
 recognizable, such as office areas where the hallways and rooms look almost the same a lot and 
 the same as in the first game. The game features new enemies and weapons so the combat has been 
 increased. the difficulty is also a little harder as such in the later levels, things start to 
 heat up for both games. Overall, if your a huge Fear fan, I'd say pick it up because its only $30 
 brand new now. If you haven't played the first fear at all, I'd say play that first and then try 
 this one out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ricky-Wagner
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 1, 2008 6:59 pm PT
Review:  F. E. A. R. Files includes the second and third games in the series, the third being best by far. 
 The addition of squad combat and new weapons makes the last- gen graphics seem like a minute problem. 
 These games (like the first) have a very deep and dark storyline to them that will haunt your very 
 soul until you've finally uncovered the mysteries and relations between you, Alma, and Paxton Fettel. 
 The only real problem i had with these games (besides graphics) was that they were too short, especially 
 the second one, even on the harder difficulties. Overall though, I thought these were great games 
 and had no problem spending $60 for the both of them, I considered it a steal actually. If you 
 were a fan of the first F. E. A. R. game or just enjoy a great FPS, I recommend you at least rent 
 this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AssassinExDeus
Rating: 2.5
Date: Dec 31, 2008 10:52 am PT
Review:  I'll make this a short review.... SNORE. I must be on a spree of bad games because I rented Legendary 
 before this and then I rented this piece of junk. Oy vay.
  
  Well for starters this game is F. E. A. R. But instead of being good... its crap. And it looks bad. 
 It plays bad. It bores you to death. It has bad scripting. Glitches..... yeah. In essence you do 
 FEAR it.
  
  They added new weapons and devices like a turret which is pretty cool because you can place three 
 of them but as always you use them in places where its OBVIOUS they need to be used instead of 
 using them wherever just because you want too. Everything is so OVER scripted it makes it less 
 fun. And the story just feels screwed up this time especially with the way it flows with the weird 
 game play now. Its like they were bored and decided to make these expansions for no real reason.
 
  
  Overall I tried a bit of both expansions and couldn't play much past about an hour of each. Just 
 avoid this game and stick with the original game or wait for the new one coming out. Everyone knows 
 this is the "accident" in the series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: acklawhunt
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 17, 2008 12:24 pm PT
Review:  Many People just didn't like this game. But, If you are loyal to the F. E. A. R. games I strongly 
 advise you to get this. Now the game starts right off where the first game ends (F. E. A. R. Extraction 
 point) . It has a very compelling story that almost all players will enjoy. There are many horror 
 cutscenes that are very fun to experiance. The new weapons are satisfiying and there are some new 
 features to the game. Where the game falls low is the Campaign or F. E. A. R. Perseus Mandate. That 
 campaign was very unpleasent and unenjoyable. If you are looking for horror cutscenes you will 
 maybe see 5 within the whole campaign. You will constantly fight these enemies in the game that 
 will be fought the entire time. At first they are fun but then just downright annoying. Another 
 dissapointment is the Multi-player. There is almost no one playing the game. If you have a strong 
 PC just get F. E. A. R. Extraction Point. But for 360 owners $40 is a good price for the Exciting 
 campaign of F. E. A. R. Extraction Point. A 8.5 out of 10 :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ausutorarisu
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 11, 2008 6:35 am PT
Review:  My teacher said on several occasions that I tend to write magazine articles. I am now going in 
 the same way because it is hard to make technical comments like some people making a living on 
 it.
  
  
  I own FEAR and Extraction Point on the PC but I still chose to buy FEAR Files because Extraction 
 Point did not run smooth enough on my PC hardware which was high end two years ago. I notice this 
 is common for expansion packs to have reduced performance. On the Xbox 360, FEAR Files didn't let 
 me down. Perhaps it is expectable but you will like the speed in my seat. In an instant battle 
 where smoke and particles fly in the air, the framerate is still around 30 frames per second. Most 
 of the time, it is above 60 fps.
  
  
  My PC does not have FEAR installed yet after the last crackdown. I don't want to insert so many 
 disks before I can play so I chose FEAR Files.
  
  
  Unlike what others have said, this one isn't very bad. Surely I want to be the Point-man again 
 instead of this sergeant but it is nothing to complain much about. You have more open environments 
 and pleasant graphics. Of course, things still look as if they are made of plastic but I am not 
 the type of graphics duke. The presence of great looking games like Crysis wowed me but I don't 
 look down to older games. Honestly, the real world is beside us and why shall we seek the reality 
 graphics so desperately in games instead? Perseus Mandate is more action-paced but Alma still kicks 
 ass. In my opinion, Perseus Mandate makes a better impression than the demo of Project Origin. 
 The story is longer than Extraction Point I think and you will love it if you like FEAR in the 
 first place.
  
  
  Nothing more to say. Awesome expansion. But it can be boring to kill replicas from start to finish 
 and then spirits sent by Alma. Perseus Mandate lets us kill ATC guards, Replicas and the new mercenary 
 force too. About EP, I just discovered you can kill Norman Mapes in the Memorial hospital. Type 
 "Kill Norman Mapes" on Youtube to know how. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: llTylerll
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 17, 2008 9:08 pm PT
Review:  FEAR FIles for Xbox 360 is a Double game, which features the two expansions for FEAR. Such as Fear: Extraction 
 Point and the new expansion Persus Mandate. The Gameplay is the same fun gorey close-quarters shooting 
 action that made us love fear, However thats the thing that mainly holds this game back is the 
 Fact that its pretty much the same game with new enemies, and couple of weapons, Not to say these 
 arn't great additions but it would have been nice to see graphics and gameplay to be tweaked abit, I 
 know its only a expansion but it would have been welcomed. The Game still keeps the Scares in fear 
 which never become predictable. Single Player is a blast, Ive only beat extraction point and started 
 persus but it is fun, esspecialy using the new laser and minigun!.
  Online is pretty much dead with games like halo 3, Call Of Duty 4, and such youll be lucky to play 
 more then 1 match a day. Also the Ai is really top notch in the game and make for some fun intense 
 hallway gunfights with the room filled with debree and blood, its really cool and you cant experience 
 it anywhere else. So The final question... Is this Game worth the Money? well it really depend 
 on how much you like fear, and if you can get past multiplayer being dead. But one thing's for 
 sure it never hurts to go out and rent this game for yourself for a weekend or, even just to give 
 it a try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JFannn
Rating: 6
Date: Feb 18, 2008 6:55 am PT
Review:  When it first appeared on PC, F. E. A. R. rightly earned a host of accolades, from its outstanding 
 graphics to its crazy-good AI to its simple but fun use of slow motion in gunfights. The console 
 version was equally well-received, and VU Games hopes to re-capture that momentum with F. E. A. R. 
 Files, a single disc containing two standalone expansions, Extraction Point and Perseus Mandate. 
 VU is clearly banking on the mantra "if it ain't broke, don't fix it," as both expansions include 
 essentially the same mechanics and level design. However, VU should have "fixed" this product, 
 because the Xbox 360's first-person landscape has changed.
  
  
  Extraction Point and Perseus Mandate both involve storylines that run parallel to F. E. A. R., and 
 each introduces new characters, new levels and new weapons. While Extraction Point picks up right 
 where the first F. E. A. R. left off, Perseus Mandate takes place in a different F. E. A. R. squad, parallel 
 to Extraction Point. In Extraction Point you'll be working alone, but in Perseus Mandate, you'll 
 be in a group of two other squad members, but always seem to somehow get seperated from them when 
 all the freaky stuff starts happening. Perseus Mandate is easily the better of the two, both for 
 its freakish new enemies and its scary moments, but the formula that made F. E. A. R. succeed the 
 first time around is almost fully intact here, for better or for worse.
  
  
  Still in the game are the main two things in any F. E. A. R. game. Freaky, dark, creepy little girl 
 floating around gameplay, and the SlowMo feature. These are the things that make F. E. A. R. unique. 
 The freaky gameplay (And yes, it WILL creep you out,) kind of explains itself, but the SlowMo is 
 the best part. At any time, best used if you have a great amount of enemies in one room, you can 
 hit the Right Bumper and you'll activate SlowMo. In this, basically, you go into SlowMo. This way, 
 you can take out more enemies faster. The way this is explained in the game is that you we're hired 
 by the First Encounter Assault Recon (F. E. A. R.) team because of your amazing reflexes, but it's 
 not the fact that you go fast, it's going slower.
  
  
  Are the new stories interesting? Of course; Monolith seldom drops the narrative ball, and Perseus 
 Mandate in particular provides a great "expansion" of the F. E. A. R. universe. Are there intense 
 and scary moments a la Doom and the first F. E. A. R.? You bet; those are the driving force behind 
 the franchise, and the new Nightcrawlers will just plain make you pee. But do the new stories and 
 characters lead to new level designs? Nope. Do the new enemies have even more-impressive AI routines? 
 Nuh uh. And does anything in this package really push the envelope? 'Fraid not.
  
  
  As you'd expect from a F. E. A. R. game, the AI is generally quite good, actively seeking cover, breaking 
 out some melee attacks and throwing grenades whenever prudent. But the AI in both expansions is 
 also surprisingly inconsistent. One enemy will patrol like a blind man, letting you walk right 
 up and fill his face with lead, while the next will see you from across the map and start firing 
 before you've realized he was more than a shadow. Likewise, one group of enemies will root you 
 out from behind a crate, while the next will just cluster in a room waiting to be hit by a grenade. 
 It has to be your grenade, though, because the AI is inexplicably immune to its own.
  
  
  And about those crates: you'd better get used to them, because F. E. A. R. Files by far has the most 
 crate-filled, linear paths yet to appear on a next-gen console. When F. E. A. R. first released, its 
 AI, slow-motion effects and gunplay were impressive enough to overlook its "yes, I'm walking through 
 yet another corridor-filled warehouse" level design, but with standalone expansions on a next-gen 
 console, the "big room filled with boxes" and "hallway filled with boxes" gets mighty old, mighty 
 fast.
  
  
  Adding to this dated feel is a multimedia experience that just screams "been there, done that." 
 Perhaps the most surprising of these shortcomings is the graphics, which look surprisingly old 
 and plain, include minimal environmental damage with hardly any physics-based interaction, and 
 don't have the same level of polish as the original F. E. A. R. Even Monolith's years-old outing Condemned: 
 Criminal Origins had better textures and more-complex lighting -- and Condemned was an Xbox 360 
 launch game.
  
  
  The audio is also surprisingly bland, and it'd be polite to describe it as "minimalist." The banter 
 of the AI and NPCs is both limited and repetitive, the soundtrack (what there is of one) is insanely 
 muted, the guns lack any sort of aural oomph, and -- worst of all -- the sound effects have a tendency 
 to crackle in and out, almost like the audio track loses reception with the rest of the game. For 
 the latest chapters in a franchise known for its multimedia greatness, F. E. A. R. Files simply looks, 
 sounds and feels like the proverbial redheaded stepchild.
  
  
  It's also got not-too interesting additions in Characters and Weapons. The four new characters 
 being a new type of ATC Soldier (basically the main thing you'll be killing) , A new type of Alma 
 ghost (creepy ghost-girl) , Nightcrawler soldiers (stronger than the ATC soldier) , and Nightcrawler 
 Elites (Stronger than ATC and Nightcrawler soldiers) not to mention all of our old friends, trying 
 to kill you and your allies. On the weapons front, you'll be adding an advanced rifle with a nightvision 
 scope, a grenade launcher, and a lightning gun. All great additions, but simply not enough.
  
  
  F. E. A. R. Files clearly hopes that its multiplayer options will save the day, as Xbox Live 
 multiplayer supports up to 16 players. And let's face it; gunning down your friends in slow motion 
 seldom gets old. But for a first-person shooter to succeed when Halo 3 and Call of Duty 4 are sitting 
 next to it on the shelf, the FPS needs more than multiplayer options to do well. It needs a compelling 
 narrative, fresh gameplay and -- let's be honest here -- great graphics and sound. The competition 
 in the first-person genre is stiff to begin with, but particularly so this year. And F. E. A. R. Files 
 just doesn't have the total package necessary to compete 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Uberman2321
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 25, 2008 8:15 pm PT
Review:  This game has some intense graphics with lots of feaky parts, most of tthe time you ask yourself 
 WTF was that? you look around your room to check if the lights are on or if the door is closed 
 behind you just to check if somthing wasn't watching you like in the game. My overall report on 
 tmy WTF factor tells me that there isnt enough WTF in the persus mandate campain, but the extraction 
 point story line and the WTF factor tells me that its very good (if your alone in the dark playing 
 this game, trust me I went there) . Now the multiplayer seems to be a high rating from my point 
 of view but still there is too much "dja vu". Another good thing about FEAR files is that you have 
 your own instant action so you can practice before you test your skills online. I suggest that 
 you rent this game FIRST before you touch the game (or watch a gameplay preview, or play a demo 
 of it) .
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: calui
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 16, 2008 10:32 am PT
Review:  Fear Files offers two stand alone expansion packs to the original Fear, although only one of them 
 even comes close to reaching the quality of the original game. Extraction Point, the best game 
 in this expansion, takes place right after the ending of the original Fear. You play as the same 
 character and go around killing the clone soldiers again. Just like the original Fear, you fight 
 these clone soldiers for most of the whole game. Suprisingly the a. i. still doesn't feel dated 
 in any way. It is still a lot of fun to use your slow mo and then shoot a guy in the face with 
 the shotgun. And at first glance Extraction Point seems to be really good. But as you continue 
 playing you'll realize that a lot of the big stage set battles of the original are almost not existent 
 in Extraction Point. The enviornments are way to small, and thus it becomes hard to get flanked 
 by the enemy. The a. i. does try to move in and out of cover, but there is only so much room for 
 them to move before they get shot. The shooting action in Extraction Point is still solid fun, 
 but doesn't live up to the original. In Perseus Mandate things start to get worse. The great action 
 of Fear is mostly gone and is now mostly revolving around activating slow mo at the perfect time 
 and perfect accuracy, instead of trying to be smart and overcome the game's smart a. i. Persues 
 Mandate's story is also not very interesting as you play as a new character and doesn't have much 
 to do with what happens in the original Fear. All told these two games are still somewhat enjoyable. 
 The original Fear was quite a thrill ride with it's supersmart a. i. and it's constantly intense, 
 addictive shooting. Fear Files still has the smart a. i. but loses some of the intense action by 
 making the enviornments to small, and also not having enough of the clone soliders to shoot. Fear 
 Files still has multi-player but good luck finding anyone to play with. The mutli-player is exactly 
 the same as the original, except with some new modes. Fear Files still has Instant Action but now 
 8 maps instead of just 4. The content in Fear Files is pretty good, and if you are a fan of the 
 original Fear you'll still want to see the new content. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VitaExodus
Rating: 6
Date: Jan 10, 2008 9:13 am PT
Review:  F. E. A. R. Files, what can I say about it... well there's not much to say about it at all, really 
 - I do not advise touching this one for the sake of keeping the sanctity of FPSes. It can be difficult 
 to make shooting people in the face unfun and unenjoyable, although the game certainly has its 
 moments. 
  
  How bad the game looks: Frankly, I'd only be impressed with the graphics if it came out about 6-8 
 years ago, this feels almost nearby the late ps1 generation. Fatality. 
  
  How bad the game sounds: The usual gun sounds, a little bit of chatter from the replica soldiers, 
 typical gun shots and whatnot. The music.... wait, what music?
  
  How bad the game plays: You get a large amount of weaponry to handle, but most of it acts exactly 
 the same, sort of a semi-automatic gun. Not a whole lot of imagination here other than a laser 
 gun, but the graphics really don't help here.
  
  The Bottom Line: Aside from some genuinely scary moments with the little girl, you have a game 
 of repetitive shooting at the same soldiers, with the ocassional mech, and a lot of dying with 
 not enough checkpoints. I wouldn't reccomend buying or renting this unless you're a hardcore F. E. A. R. 
 Fan - We know how many of those there are... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: raddhazard
Rating: 5
Date: Jan 3, 2008 12:53 pm PT
Review:  Fear Files has 2 episodes both of which last about 4-6 hrs. Now, the games plat exactly like the 
 original with a few new weapons and new levels. However, the levels themselves just aren't up to 
 the originals and aren't as fun to play. This game isn't scary like the original and there's just 
 to much wandering around in the dark with nothing to fight. Speaking of dark, this game is a lot 
 darker than Fear, so you'll be needing to keep that flashlight handy. Graphics are a mixed bag. 
 Extraction Point looks identical to the original, but Mandate, the graphics are horrible. When outdoors, the 
 flat texturing on floors and crates, with no shadowing, it's a real eyesore.
  I really wanted to enjoy this game, but it doesn't hold a candle to the original and is not worth 
 the money. I think it's time for a new Fear experience, with something new, the series has grown 
 tired. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cougar63
Rating: 6
Date: Jan 3, 2008 11:48 am PT
Review:  F. E. A. R. was an absolutely great and scary as heck game. So along comes FEAR Files with 2 campaigns 
 to play through. I'll buy it based on the first gaming experience. What a MAJOR let down!! You 
 can beat this entire game in less than 10 hours tops... Both campaigns are very short and the horror 
 is less than mediocore. Even the endings without saying to much are less that par. The first ending 
 was 20x's better than this junk. As of today 1/3/08 there still is no one playing any of the on-line 
 games - so if you are thinking of buying this for the on-line play, stay with the first. Was expecting 
 so muh more from Sierra on this game and they dropped the ball BIG time. Got this game fro Christmas 
 and am already taking it to Gamestop to trade it off. Get Orange Box or BIOSHOCK- you will get 
 your moneys worth from both or either one of those as compare to this. Was expecting s 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nokoronkwo
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 23, 2007 7:51 pm PT
Review:  Decent FPS, but with this title you will find that you have been there and done that if you previously 
 completed F. E. A. R. The expansion added a few new weapons but the storyline is muddled at best. 
 What is the point of a good shooter without a solid underlying premise? Game was okay. Not as good 
 or as challenging as original. Received free at Game Stop during used game promotion. 
  
  Gun turrets and proximity bombs make this game more interesting, but again as severals have pointed 
 out, the enemy AI left much to be desired as most of the drones attacked in a predictible pattern 
 allowing you to knock them off and move to the next stage of the game. Background renderings were 
 generic and I found myself "lost" in some of the rooms as one room looked strikingly similar to 
 the next. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OmarKane3450
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 11, 2007 5:41 pm PT
Review:  What we have here are two decent but very flawed expansions. Frankly, I thought they were good 
 playing through once but playing through twice is probably not worth it.
  
  Each expansion has strengths and weaknesses. Extraction Point had some areas that were little stronger 
 than Perseus Mandate. For one thing, the level design was a little better (love the hospital level) 
 and it followed the FEAR formula a little more closely (scaring you a little more) . But the story 
 was very very weak. Perseus Mandate had a better story but the level design wasn't very strong. 
 
  
  These are still good expansions, but I think they would've been better off just throwing the original 
 FEAR into this package along with the expansions. Not only would you be getting the expansions, 
 but you would also be getting the kickass original. I wonder why they didn't do that? 
  
  Worth the money? Possibly, but the Orange Box would probably be a more satisfying experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stinkfinger724
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 6, 2007 12:32 pm PT
Review:  If you played the original F. E. A. R. on the Xbox 360, you know that game had many twists and turns 
 that lead to this release (if you haven't played the original, play through it first.) But above 
 all, the most important thing is still here: it kicks ass to kill bad guys in slo-mo.
  
  On the positive side: The game is still one the best (and creepiest) shooters to ever recive an 
 Xbox 360 tag. As well, it's F. E. A. R. with all new content!
  
  On the negative side: The game is SUPER short. You will finish the campaign mode in a weekend, 
 which doesn't really fit for the $50 ($70 Canadian) price tag.
  
  Verdict: If you didn't play the first F. E. A. R. you are going to be super mega confused while playing 
 through, but for the true Fanboy Entering Arena's for killing Retarted n00bs, then go out and have 
 fun killing some n00bs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: grunt1096
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 29, 2007 8:23 pm PT
Review:  I loved the original FEAR and this in no way lives up to it. 
  Lets start off with the better of the two games, Extraction point. This game keeps the story of 
 the original FEAR and delivers all the gory action, slow-mo and swearing you've come to expect. 
 Perseus Mandate on the other hand was a real disappointment. It felt broken and just felt like 
 a cheap money making scam. It serves up action but no depth and the graphics are just plain sad. 
 That said I still enjoyed this game but the could have done a better job with Perseus Mandate. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NirvanaX360
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 28, 2007 7:56 pm PT
Review:  The controls are standard, nothing to great. I would recommend you rent this game. It is very short. 
 Not worth buying. If you have 8 bucks, just rent it. I would say you shouldnt have any big problems. 
 It is just way to small of a game to be purchased. Story ties in just right. You will enjoy the 
 story. This game is still scary. As the end of this game, you will want more and that is what you 
 will get.... In Project Origin. The graphics are very ugly. The character models are just terrible, 
 but the animations and blood look nice, sometimes. I wish they added more weapon choices, but they 
 didnt, o well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CRUSHER88
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 20, 2007 4:02 pm PT
Review:  I remember playing the original FEAR on the PC when it came out and I loved it so I was looking 
 forward to this value pack for FEAR. Sadly it does not deliver. The campaigns feel weak and the 
 levels seem so poorly done. However, if you are looking for a a quick scare, then this game may 
 do the trick for you.... if you haven't played any fear before that is. I felt that I was expecting 
 every scare within these campaigns which ruined all the fun.
  
  If you do like the bits of action in the campaign, then you will enjoy the instant action maps 
 they have for you to play. They are basically timed maps where you need to kill an endless wave 
 of people and clear to a specific point in the map. However, there is little to no replay value 
 in this IMO. Now if your looking for some MP, I would say this is a very fun game to play online. 
 Problem is NO ONE plays this game online. You will get lucky to find a ranked or player match at 
 any time of the day with all these mega hit MP games out like Halo 3 and Call of Duty 4.
  
  In the long run I wouldn't bother buying this game. It is however worth a rent for a quick scare.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Onelinedrawing
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 7, 2007 3:09 pm PT
Review:  F. E. A. R Files bundles together two different expansion packs into one package for the 360. The 
 first, Extraction point, came out in 2006 for the PC and continued where the original F. E. A. R. 
 campaign left off. The new expansion, Perseus Mandate, follows a second F. E. A. R. point man on a 
 parallel story to Extraction Point.
  
  Both games look and feel more or less the same as the original, taking almost no chances with it's 
 core formula. The graphics feel a bit dated when compared with many of the newer titles out for 
 the 360. Environmental textures are weak in some areas, while character and gun models are only 
 slightly better. This is offset, however, by the games superb visual effects. Intense firefights, 
 explosions, and slow motion effects all look really nice, while scripted cut scenes are definitely 
 the best visuals the game has to offer.
  
  The biggest problem with F. E. A. R. Files is it's somewhat repetitive scenery. Although you will 
 be going through a variety of different locations, they all look and feel more or less the same 
 as they did in the original game. Most of the time you'll be fighting room to room or down narrow 
 corridors, though it would have been nice to see some more outdoor environments. The atmosphere 
 is as creepy and dark as ever, and will definitely keep you on your toes through out the entire 
 game.
  
  Both Campaigns offer up a variety of new weapons and enemies. Though most of the weapons are the 
 same, all of them are still really fun to shoot. Whether it be nailing someone to the wall with 
 metal slugs, brutal short range shotgun blasts, or letting loose with the massive TG-2A Mini-gun, 
 those that believe a shooter is only as good as its guns will find F. E. A. R. Files extremely satisfying. 
 The enemy AI is incredibly smart. Like in the original game, these guys will suppress, flank, and 
 use grenades based on the threat they face. Their use of cover is extremely effective, even blind-firing 
 when you get too close. You even see them creating their own cover by kicking over tables and desks 
 when they find themselves in the open. It's difficult to explain why F. E. A. R. Files doesn't seem 
 as scary as the original, but it has a lot to do with the lack of subtlety in the sequences. Instead 
 of playing with your head, you are more often plunged face-first into these action/horror sequences 
 and various other hallucinations. A lot of the fright is taken away when you start to see these 
 coming before they actually happen. Having said that, the game can still be very scary at times, 
 especially when it catches you off your guard.
  
  Once you're done with the single player campaigns, which should last about 15 hours between both, 
 you have some intense new instant action challenges to take on, as well as a solid, if somewhat 
 standard, multi player experience. Theres a lot F. E. A. R. Files has to offer, and at a relatively 
 inexpensive price, it's easy to recommend to anyone who enjoys first-person shooters or action/horror 
 games. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
