-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: F.E.A.R. 2: Project Origin
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/xbox360/action/fear2/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Slow-motion shootouts are good, gory fun.
 Mech sequences provide welcome variety.
 Some cool, spooky imagery.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Story offers little mystery or suspense.
 Cliched random scares and level design.
 Multiplayer is drab and disappointing.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Feb 10, 2009
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7
Critic Score: 7.8, 56 Review (s)
User Score: 8.3, 833 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Warner Bros. Interactive Entertainment
Developer: Monolith
Genre: Modern First-Person...
Date: Feb 10, 2009
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
This somewhat scary sequel is a solid shooter, but it can't keep pace with its lauded predecessor. 
 

  The image of a pasty-skinned, greasy-haired young girl has become an iconic one in horror films 
 like  The Ring , and the original F. E. A. R. introduced a similar figure with great success. Of course, 
 that game gave its ghostly visions a chilling context, drawing you into the unnerving story of 
 a paranormal prodigy named Alma and the horrific suffering to which she was subjected. F. E. A. R. 
 2: Project Origin returns to this fertile universe, but rather than scrutinize even darker reaches 
 of the soul, it merely skims the surface, offering up a series of eerie visions without delivering 
 a good mystery to bind them together. The good news for shooter fans is that the bullet-blasting 
 core of the experience is sound, propelling you forward with enough intensity to keep the single-player 
 campaign engaging. Most of what's here has been done better before, but the unspectacular elements 
 have been stitched into an enjoyably moody first-person shooter that relies on rock-solid mechanics 
 rather than true inspiration.  

           Scenes like these are common in F. E. A. R. 2.      

  After a short exposition, F. E. A. R. 
 2 picks up where the original left off -- with a bang. The city is in tatters, and as Michael Becket 
 of Delta Force, it is up to you and your squadmates to capture the elusive Genevieve Aristide, 
 president of the nefarious Armacham Technology Corporation. Too much description would risk spoiling 
 the game's few surprises, which are better experienced than narrated, though as it happens, there 
 are few enigmas to unravel. F. E. A. R. 2's story paints itself into a corner, offering very little 
 new to players already familiar with the Project Origin referred to in the title, and nothing compelling 
 enough to wrap newcomers into its fold. With Alma now a known quantity, paranormal secrecy has 
 been replaced by a series of near-cliche bump-in-the-night scares and murky visions that do the 
 unthinkable where a horror-themed game is concerned: They become predictable.  

  Because the pacing and story layout of the game can be a bit predictable at times, F. E. A. R. 2s 
 real scares come from its atmosphere -- and this actually works, sometimes. Expect to jump out of 
 your seat on occasion, when your flashlight flickers and ghostly visages surround you, or when 
 staccato orchestral chords signal the emergence of abominations as they break free from their confining 
 cells. Other attempts at scares just seem stale, given that the game's pacing and level design 
 foreshadow these encounters, therefore emasculating the necessary sense of surprise. However, the 
 excellent sound design is never to blame. A variety of creaks and groans gives ebb and flow to 
 the sense of tension, and musical swells and increasingly hectic clatters and clangs will get your 
 pulse pounding when needed. Unfortunately, the visuals don't paint a picture dour enough to match. 
 Some areas are shrouded with moody environmental shadows, in which light and dark contrast to excellent 
 effect. In other levels, the lack of ambient lighting and accompanying silhouettes are noticeable, 
 and the surrounding frights just feel flaccid. F. E. A. R. 2 simply doesn't match its FPS peers from 
 a technical perspective, so though it looks good, the simple textures, inconsistent shadows, and 
 occasional clipping and other glitches detract from the atmosphere.  

  The level design also falls victim to a fair bit of predictability, though to F. E. A. R. 2's credit, 
 you'll break away from the endless office corridors of the original and journey through a greater 
 variety of environments. These areas are usually just as claustrophobic, but they won't often deliver 
 that spine-tingling fear of the specters lurking beyond the reach of your flashlight. Trekking 
 through the rubble of decaying city streets is a good change of pace, but the ultraconvenient manner 
 in which the debris holds you to your narrow path is a familiar design ploy. Similarly, there's 
 no more excitement to be found in F. E. A. R. 2's same-old subway than that of any other game. It's 
 at its best when it leaves these stale tropes behind and builds on its roots as a corridor shooter, 
 such as in a nail-biting sojourn through the halls of an elementary school that hides unspeakable 
 horrors. Entering a dusky music classroom to find a hideous mutant pounding on the keys of a piano 
 with abandon is a singular moment, and the ensuing battles are ripe and exhilarating reminders 
 of the series' explosive origins.  

           There's no escape from the wrath of the assault rifle in reflex time.      

  Those 
 same inhuman atrocities will spawn clones while emitting ear-splitting, disorienting roars, and 
 others scurry about at super speeds -- though as it happens, you've got a helpful skill at your disposal 
 that helps manage nimble and sluggish foes alike. Like the protagonist of F. E. A. R., you can activate 
 reflex time, which slows the action to a crawl and lets you battle your enemies in a bullet-time 
 ballet. You've seen a similar mechanic a lot by now, but it's skillfully done here. Grenade explosions 
 create impressive visual distortions, bullets leave an airstream in their wake, and spoken dialogue 
 and sound effects grind to a muffled crawl. Landing headshots in reflex time is particularly enjoyable 
 and gives F. E. A. R. 2's gruesome levels of violence a temporary starring role. Foes erupt in red 
 gushers, staining the walls with blood and flailing around in their final moments, an effect made 
 even more effective by robust (and occasionally oversensitive) rag-doll animations.  

  Your instruments of destruction aren't spectacular, but they're varied enough to make shooting 
 a pleasure, even when the flow of time takes its normal path. The two shotguns are particular delights; 
 they feel weighty and dispatch most enemies with a single bloody blast to the noggin. The hammerhead 
 is another delight, filling your foes with neon barbs and potentially affixing them to the wall 
 behind. However, shooter fans should consider playing at higher difficulty levels, given that F. E. A. R. 
 2 feels noticeably easier than its predecessor.  

  The AI can offer occasional challenges, particularly in levels featuring intersecting corridors 
 in which human enemies will flank you, use cover effectively, and tumble to the side should they 
 find themselves gazing down the barrel of your automatic shotgun. They will also tip over furniture 
 or other objects and use them as cover (a trick you can use, though will likely never need) . However, 
 enemy behavior is inconsistent; a table-tipping guard may not follow through, running away from 
 his improvised cover rather than ducking behind it. Some enemies will blindly fire from behind 
 low obstacles but may also do so when in plain view. The best adversaries are those not governed 
 by rules of human behavior, such as ethereal foes that take shape as you enter reflex time. And 
 in some cases, your enemies are so visually elusive that you're better off finding a way out of 
 the dark environs that spawn them.  

  The most notable additions to the formula are a couple of armored-suit sequences in which you climb 
 into a giant metal mech and riddle your attackers with machine-gun spray and rockets. These sequences 
 aren't tough -- you're a powerful death machine plowing down your weakling foes -- but the mech controls 
 nicely and you'll be treated to some impressive displays of environmental destruction and general 
 chaos. You can move through these areas on foot if you like, so these levels do offer a bit of 
 replay value, though you should take great pains to wreak fun robotic havoc when given the possibility. 
 You'll also take control of the turret atop the squad's armored vehicle, but this weapon isn't 
 all that enjoyable to use, and these bits feel like filler.  

            For the best bloodshed, zoom in.      

  F. E. A. R. 2's multiplayer component also feels 
 like filler, and though we've come to expect online play from most of our shooters, there's nothing 
 special about this suite of lackluster options. For fans of the original, the most notable omission 
 is that of the slow-motion modes, which brought reflex time into an online arena and made for some 
 clever and enjoyable showdowns. Without these modes, F. E. A. R. 2 feels a bit hollow online, serving 
 up helpings of Deathmatch and Team Deathmatch, a couple of Conquest variants, Capture the Flag, 
 and a mode called Failsafe that owes a large debt to Counter-Strike. The best of these is Armored 
 Front, in which a player on each team can hop into one of those robotic exoskeletons while his 
 or her teammates capture control points. Otherwise, the shooting mechanics don't translate as well 
 to a multiplayer environment, and the by-the-numbers levels are unimpressive. You have the ability 
 to customize your loadout and level up in ranked matches, but this just isn't enough to breathe 
 life into the musty online play.  

  You'll get the occasional heebie-jeebies from F. E. A. R. 2, but the magic of the first game hasn't 
 been re-created here. Its true that some of the changes in the new game seem like they were intended 
 to address criticism of the first F. E. A. R.: tedious and claustrophobic environments, lack of enemy 
 variety, and so on. Sadly, though these changes were made, the resulting sequel, while fun and 
 well-crafted, seems to have lost sight of the strengths that made its predecessor so unique. Nevertheless, 
 playing F. E. A. R. 2 is a worthwhile way to pass the time while we wait for the inevitable next installment. 

    Editor's Note: This review previously contained inaccurate information about the melee combat 
 system. GameSpot regrets the error.       
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (57 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: OracleXIII
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 13, 2009 7:39 am PT
Review:  What you need to know about FEAR 2 is that you will not encounter anything you haven't already 
 seen. The game uses the same tricks as most first person horror shooters. The horror part is pretty 
 much achieved only by the things you've seen in Condemned 2, like flashing florescent lights, things 
 falling from above, etc. Alma is not as scary as she was in the first game, not by a long shot. 
 And even though there are some pretty scary sequences in the game, you can always tell when they're 
 coming. 
  
  Fortunately, the game is very well paced, so it doesn't get boring too soon. There is a fine balance 
 between the action sequences and the horror sequences. After an intense firefight you can expect 
 a good dose of sneaking around in the darkness with all sorts of scary things going on. Maybe it's 
 not the greatest horror game, but truth be told, it's still a really good shooter. 
  
  All in all the game keeps you entertained, however there are some frustrating moments, like shooting 
 ghosts. Almost in every "horror sequence" there are these ghosts, which appear from nowhere and 
 attack you, and you have to shoot them. What's frustrating about it is that you only need one bullet 
 to make the ghost disappear, but you always end up using half a mag, just because they appear so 
 unexpectedly. Also, this game cannot be played during daytime without adjusting the brightness. 
 Most of the time it's so dark that it just makes you angry, because you can't see what the hell 
 is going on and where you at. 
  
  I give FEAR 2 an 8, because of the overall atmosphere and art direction. The game's done very well, 
 and even though the horror parts are nothing new, they still look and feel great. Add this to a 
 really solid shooter and you've got a decent game, that's definitely worth the money. It may not 
 be an award winner, but it's not a letdown either. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crakbox
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 11, 2009 3:43 pm PT
Review:  If any of you played the original, you remember many of the WTF Mate moments that made the game. 
 It's rare that an FPS actually succeeds in making a horror game that works. Others have tried, 
 but failed miserably (This means you Condemned 2!!) whereas FEAR captivated many gamers with creepy 
 atmospheres, bizarre moments of hallucinations, and one strange little girl that you wanted to 
 either hug or give a swift kick to. 
  
  In other words, for us gamers FEAR 2 had a lot to live up to and they did alright but I fear the 
 FEAR franchise is going the way of Halo; letting it go to their head. 
  
  The story is simple. You are Delta Operator Beckett sent in to extract a bad CEO from some company 
 doing bad things in a town plagued by weirder things. In the process, all goes to hell and so does 
 reality and the story as well. The story keeps you reeled in w/o the main character engaging in 
 any dialog and without any cut scenes scene outside of first person. This is what made the first 
 FEAR and Project Origin does a good job of staying faithful. The ending, however, is a Halo 2 "that's 
 it?!" since it ends so bloody abruptly. When the credits started to roll, my brother and I looked 
 at each other and spent a whole minute exchanging "uhhhs" and "huh." Like a rug in The Big Lebowski, 
 endings are supposed to tie the story together but perhaps I am spoiled by RPG endings. 
  
  Despite the WTFness of the ending, Project Origins does sport some major improvements. The animations 
 are top-notch and true to reality. When you have to press a button, move something, or open a door, 
 you actually have to temporarily move your weapon while your other hand does the action. This grounds 
 the animation in reality and is executed properly, especially when you use the ladder (which is 
 automatic instead of requiring you to carefully place your aimer) . The aiming reticules are also 
 improved as the weapons have red-dot or neon iron sights similar to actual firearms. Even the recoil 
 is accurate and the movement through the sights as movement causes the red dot to move around since 
 they are never really fixed but projected. 
  
  Another improvement is the weapons and their balance. The shotgun is no longer an end-all weapon 
 and you can hold more then 100 rounds of assault rifle ammo as opposed to the first FEAR. Grenades 
 are also more abundant and you don't accidentally shoot incoming grenades (which causes them to 
 explode in midair) as easily as the first game, which caused me more deaths than anything else. 
 The special weapons are also more abundant such as the penetrator (now the Hammerhead) and the 
 sniper rifle. Not to mention new weapons such as the laser. Sadly though, the particle weapon seems 
 only to come at the end of the game. 
  
  And yet another improvement is the enemy AI. Replicants are no longer just small obstacles but 
 considerably smarter opponents. In the first FEAR, you could slow time down through "reflex time" 
 (which is in Project Origin) , dash into a crowd of Replicant soldiers, lay waste, and then take 
 cover. Not in Project Origin... or as much. Now the enemy will actively try and outflank you so 
 it is easier to get pincer in by enemy troops. Sadly, they no longer talk like Half-Life marines 
 but still scream like them. The stealth ninjas only appear towards the end of the game and are 
 a lot easier to handle as they appear in better lighting so it's easier to recognize the distortion 
 they create. No more hiding in wait. 
  
  They also created three new, and very annoying, enemies. The first are what I crawl "non-tongue 
 lickers," a play on the Resident Evil version but they do not have tongues. They will, however, 
 crawl agilely across floors and walls and lunge at you. The second are what I call "puppet masters," 
 civilians that have little stringy tentacle thingies that resurrect the dead to kill you. To me, 
 these guys were the most annoying because they usually soak up the bullets like a sponge and will 
 continually bring back those you just killed. The third are the power units, similar to those in 
 the first FEAR, but a lot more dangerous as they have shields and will chase you down. However, 
 you get to drive two later on!! That was my favorite part as I was driving the armor down the street, 
 laying waste to... everyone, almost casually. The only features missing in the power armor is a 
 Mr. Coffee and an MP3 player since I was humming "On the Road Again" by Willie Nelson while launching 
 rockets. 
  
  The last improvements, and probably the most important, are the atmosphere and the freaky moments. 
 The first FEAR executed this almost flawlessly so how do you improve upon that without going overboard? 
 Simple, Monolith simply spread them out so the player, who probably played the first one, will 
 keep expecting it and then lower his guard since it doesn't happen as much. I noticed there weren't 
 nearly as many freaky apparitions or lunge in front of you moments, although you do wrestle with 
 Alma more. My personal favorite scene involved an elementary school and a crap load of lockers. 
 There is also a lot more blood and gore as the first one. 
  
  Now, despite all these advantages, there are three distinct complaints I wish to bring up. 
  
 
  The first is the length of the game or the lack thereof. My brother and I started at 3pm, played 
 until 5:30, stopped until 7pm, resumed then, and beat the game at 11pm. If you do not count restroom 
 and food breaks, our total completion time was (rounded up) 6  hours. The first time around in 
 FEAR, which had around 13 intervals as opposed to Project Origin's 7, took twice as long and then 
 half the time the second time around. An FPS should take longer than that but, as they did with 
 Halo 3, they figured quality would trump quantity. It doesn't quite work this time around. They 
 could have expanded significantly or, oh I don't know, MADE THE ENDING LONGER!! 
  
  The second is how the wacky linear nature of the environment is hard to tell at times. By that, 
 I mean it can be very hard to find the hidden ladder needed to advance, or the door, or even see 
 the lock you have to shoot out. Dead Space did an amazing thing with the interface by allowing 
 the player to press a button to see where they had to go and it did not take away from the overall 
 experience. This isn't Resident Evil 2, where you bounce back and forth in the police station like 
 a ping pong ball. 
  
  The third, and probably my biggest complaint, are the blatant transition glitches. I swear, my 
 brother and I are glitch magnets. When Alma attacks and you have to fend her off your person it 
 ALWAYS effects the environment whether it be opening an elevator door or knocking some boxes down. 
 However, three times the transition did not occur and we were stuck to either wander around endlessly 
 or reset to the last checkpoint. The first time was in the elementary school right after we fought 
 the principle. We went back to the elevator and fought off Alma. Normally, she opens the doors 
 but this time they did not and we wandered around for 20 minutes trying to figure out where to 
 go. Once we restarted, we did the fending off again and this time the doors opened. GLITCH!! This 
 happened two more times during the same play through. THIS is bad. 
  
  All in all, FEAR 2 will dazzle previous FEAR fans with brilliance while no players will be dazzled 
 with BS as you seemingly have to be a fan to appreciate it. Nonetheless, if you're a new player 
 then do yourself a favor and get the first FEAR, THEN get this one. It is well worth it, I promise 
 you. 
  
  Overall, an 80/100 
  -10 for glitches 
  -5 for lack of length 
  -2 for hard to find paths 
  -3 for bad ending 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: kurtvongeff
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 3, 2009 12:05 pm PT
Review:  So far i have played all of the FEAR games in the franchise including the expansion packs. The 
 first one was obviously the best and the expansion packs the worst so that leaves this game somewhere 
 in the middle. 
  The Good:
  The graphics a pretty good, definitely eye catching at some points. The weapons and the shooter 
 element is what keeps this game from being crap. The weapons feel good and leave a satisfying impression 
 when used. The gun battles are well made and the AI is smarter that most games. Bullet time also 
 adds an interesting twist to how the shooting goes.
  The Bad:
  The story is weak, doesn't build a lot and or keep you glued to your seat. Also not much horror 
 and the scare factor is nowhere near the first game. Some levels are repetitive like in the first 
 installments and theres still not much variation. Multiplayer is also lacking and seemed to be 
 thrown together. But overall its a solid game, good to rent for a shooter fan, good to buy if FEAR 
 fan.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: cigsmokingman
Rating: 4
Date: Apr 3, 2009 10:39 am PT
Review:  I played the first FEAR not too long ago and found it largely unimpressive. To me it was just another 
 straight-forward shooter with nothing new to offer really and it was over much too quickly, but 
 thankfully i didn't buy it. I sent it back to gamefly and it was out of my mind like that, it being 
 one of the most forgettable and overrated games i've ever played. I did not find even one moment 
 of it to be remotely spooky so that may be a big part of why i didn't enjoy it as much as other 
 people.
  
  Then i noticed a sequel was out, and with my gamefly queue pretty well dwindled, i decided to give 
 it a shot because it had a pretty good score and it was supposed to be a large improvement on the 
 original.
  
  One hour into the game, and i thought i was playing an original xbox shooter. THere wasn't a single 
 thing about it that felt next-gen or new. You run around, you shoot everything that moves, theres 
 a lot of blood splashed on the walls that really just looks like messy paint, and your HUD flashes 
 every few seconds in a half assed attempt to simulate hallucinations. Oh and the girl from The 
 Ring shows up every now and then to try and spook the gamer but it ends up being downright laughable.
 
  
  maybe i just didn't get it. i played a few more levels after the initial hour i spent and i got 
 nothing more out of the game so sent it back. pale, lousy, one dimensional story, decent but cartoonish 
 graphics, and long past expired gameplay is all this game has to offer. play something else.
  
  4/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wwekane
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 29, 2009 3:58 pm PT
Review:  F. E. A. R 2: Project Origin is a great game for the F. E. A. R fans. It is made by a different company, 
 and there made a lot of cool changes. The crosshair now turns red on an enemy which it didn't do 
 this in the previous game, the guns are better and more powerful, the graphics and blood are cooler, 
 and there are new enemies. The game is a lot scarier than the previous ones. The coolest part I 
 think of the game is that you can take control over power armor and that is a huge advantage. I 
 didn't like that fact that the you have to use strategy in this game where in the previous games 
 it was just a basic shooter. I like the fact your flashlight never turns off and you can keep it 
 on throughout the entire game. I also didn't like how you don't find out anything about project 
 origin so if you're into the story it's kind of a waste of time. However I recommend this game 
 to anybody of the original F. E. A. R. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GameObserver
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 29, 2009 3:11 am PT
Review:  When F. E. A. R. came out in 2005 it brought new meaning to "survival action horror". The game played 
 with shadows and sound like few titles before it, even rivaling the Resident Evil series in some 
 aspects. Monolith Productions had successfully adapted popular horror movie formulas to scare the 
 living daylights out of players. They took the most mundane of settings and turned them into veritable 
 nightmares. Offices never looked the same. 
  
  The first game was poignant but short, which was a downer because the overall product left many 
 wanting more. F. E. A. R. also disappointingly ended in a cliffhanger, guaranteeing a sequel that 
 would finish all the loose ends. F. E. A. R. 2: Project Origin unfortunately doesn't quite finish 
 the story (ya, another one of those episodic series) but in the process it improves on the overall 
 gameplay experience with smarter A. I. and sharper action. Though this sequel might be a notch below 
 its predecessor in terms of horror, it surpasses its forerunner in terms of execution as a solid 
 shooter.
  
  THEY GOT ME IN THE AORTA! 
  
  The game begins rather abruptly with Michael Becket and his squad sent to retrieve Genevieve Aristide, 
 the Armacham Technology Corporation executive so frequently mentioned in the first game. It turns 
 out the events of the first encounter were but a prelude to the real crisis involving the omni-powerful 
 telepath, Alma, and the Replica force running loose. Players are again thrust into a chaotic situation 
 as the point man of First Encounter Assault Recon (F. E. A. R.) , a special unit almost as secretive 
 as the evil Armacham Corporation that concocted the whole mess by trying to clone telepathic super-soldiers. 
 
  
  Once the dust settles players end up with more questions than answers but the story finally begins 
 to make sense, maybe because the whole experience no longer feels like a cold shower and because 
 we see reoccurring faces and names. A rundown of previous events would have helped but it's not 
 essential, though it might take players some time to repaint the first game (it took me a few "intel 
 pieces" to remember who Paxton Fettel was) . Regardless, once things start rolling F. E. A. R. 2 presents 
 a better picture than its overly-abstract predecessor. 
  
  Alma begins to show signs of humanity, clearly the victim in the ordeal, and players are no longer 
 alone in fixing the mess. Becket's squad, while not very present, makes a few cameos. Sadly, their 
 company isn't used to the fullest. Most of the game is played out in solo with nothing more than 
 exchanges over the comm. system to remind us of Becket's team, but the exchanges are well executed 
 with some funny lines, especially in the beginning and the end. Besides the gratuitous and forced 
 swearing your mates properly react to your actions, but again, this is very rare -- a mere two 
 or three occasions. 
  
  OFFERS LESS FEAR AND MORE SHOOT 
  
  F. E. A. R. 2 shines in the gameplay even though previous melee elements are absent, like kicks and 
 slides. A. I. is smarter and deadlier. Enemy opponents aptly use grenades and various tactics to 
 flush players out. They will often run and gun to move between cover points and you will never 
 see any of them walk through a door only to get blasted one after another. Shooting blindly from 
 behind objects, ducking and jumping over railings is also in their repertoire, which makes the 
 whole experience a welcome change of pace from the various clones out there that have players gunning 
 swarms of stupid targets. In fact, the game prefers to focus on fewer, quality skirmishes.
  
  One negative about the gameplay has to be the lack of side-routes. This aspect of level design 
 takes a toll on action because it's very scripted. Enemies always come out of the same spots -- 
 in front of you because of the linear paths -- and players can't take different routes to dispatch 
 them. Objects can be flipped over for cover, like tables and desks, but that feature will be seldom 
 used since levels have a natural abundance of cove points and because, unlike his opponents, Becket 
 can't shoot around corners. Another bummer is the ridiculously slow sprint mode. Running makes 
 the character increase his speed to a meager trot, which is totally useless during a fight. But 
 overall F. E. A. R. 2 is an excellent shooter. 
  
  Enemies react to hit locations and die in the most realistic of ways. Death animations are particularly 
 well done, as one would expect from armor-encumbered characters. Hit detection is precise even 
 amidst the myriad of objects in rooms. Gun fights in office settings usually leave shreds of paper 
 flying and bullets sometimes create realistic burning effects on solid surfaces. All weapons are 
 perfectly balanced, depending on whom you are facing. All in all, great shooter action. The lack 
 of melee options is not missed. In fact, action is so precise, players will seldom need to use 
 time-reflex mode.
  
  But despite the clean action some elements could have been improved, like limited interaction with 
 levels. Most of it comes in the form of flipping objects over or pressing buttons (lifts, elevators, 
 computers) . Only two instances actually offers level interaction with any creative bearing on gameplay 
 (on one occasion Becket can power a set of subway tracks to zap three opponents and in another 
 he has to shoot an electrical transformer) , but the rest of the game is very straightforward. 
 
  
  AWW, THE MECH RIDE IS OVER ALREADY? 
  
  Levels, however, have a degree of destructibility. Some walls and pillars can be blasted away. 
 Rooms are loaded with trivial objects that fall and explode when shot and hanging lights rock when 
 hit, creating some eerie effects. Speaking of lights, Monolith seems to have toned down the use 
 of lighting to instill fear. In fact, the entire game has fewer frightening moments than in the 
 first installment. Overall Monolith tries to scare players more frequently than in the previous 
 game and that strategy seems to have an adverse effect. Clearly more emphasis was put on action 
 than horror, though a few spots will have you jump. 
  
  Monolith again does a great job designing realistic settings. The game features fewer offices but 
 players are now treated to more urban fighting. Labs, school, cities, subways, offices, hospitals 
 and giant underground facilities create a perfect tapestry for the unfolding devastation. Some 
 parts even have Becket riding a mechanized armored suit. The suit is a great addition to gameplay, 
 which almost acts as a pleasant intermission to the constant tension players feel while pushing 
 onward on foot. 
  
  The Mech compliments Monolith's attention to detail and knack for making the simplest of things 
 look and sound cool. I personally never got tired of the screen going black then seeing the control 
 deck power up every time Becket entered the Mech, or hearing the onboard computer notify me when 
 missiles where ready for launch -- great stuff. Traversing bombed out cities while mowing down 
 Replica soldier is also a blast, especially the sound and effects characters produce when they 
 get nailed with the Mech's powerful guns. Other instances have Becket manning gun turrets with 
 the same gratifying results. 
  
  Levels have enough details to paint a clear picture of the events and their ramifications and make 
 players forget about the linear action. The bombed out city does a great job presenting the effects 
 of a nuclear explosion (come on, all the trailers shows it) . The closer players get to the epicenter, 
 the worse the devastation gets. The school where Replica leaders were groomed conveys the sick 
 methodology used to create future telepaths. Details like the three school test groups (Ladybugs, 
 Frogs and Bluebirds) spread out in the classrooms and the propaganda used to mold impressionable 
 children is subtle but very much visible. Sadly, there aren't enough moments like that. The non-existent 
 intro and virtually non-existent ending also sours an otherwise delicious action-horror-soup. 
 
  
  "SNAKE FIST  LOSE YOUR HEAD OVER IT THIS SUMMER" 
  
  The first game used voicemails to tell the story behind the events. Now, voicemails have been entirely 
 replaced with text "intel items" lying around on the ground. Granted, we still get to hear things 
 unfold through our teammates and other supporting characters, like "Snake Fist", but voice messages 
 have made a very conspicuous retreat in this sequel. Intel items offer a cheap plot-to-game transition. 
 
  
  Voice acting is superb. In fact, sound effects and music are probably the game's strongest point. 
 Some of the better tunes are repeated from the previous game, which is smart from Monolith's part 
 (gives the game a sense of continuity) , but overall F. E. A. R. 2 has perfectly eerie ambient music. 
 A few instances have hard rock and heavy metal, especially at the end. With the amount of moveable 
 items in each level, Monolith did a great job giving most of them their own sound effects. The 
 game is also alive with various spectral moans and groans, maybe one of the reasons this version 
 isn't as scary (you're always on edge) . 
  
  Your character wears a visor that produces a grainy effect on screen and gets wet on occasion, 
 and players get to see their character's body as he climbs ladders or hurdles over pieces of furniture 
 or railings, so attention to detail is there. Cars alarms go off when shot at, broken glass cracks 
 under your feet, fire extinguishers and gas tanks on flamethrower units explode when shot, all 
 of it creates a fully immersive experience.
  
  SUMMARY 
  
  F. E. A. R. 2: Project Origin is a better shooter than a horror game. Precision and details abound, 
 which make the whole experience highly immersive. Action is a bit linear because of the straightforward 
 level designs, but again, details and solid shooter action make you forget that the game practically 
 plays on rails. Things aren't as scary as in the first title, mainly because levels are oversaturated 
 with scary sounds and ghostly effects. Players eventually get used to the constant tension and 
 become impervious to all the horror parts. Despite being a bit repetitive, action doesn't get old 
 because of its fine polish and the occasional Mech and turret scenes, which are a guilty pleasure. 
 Recommended for anyone who likes solid shooters. 
  
  
  GRAPHICS 82
  Good details and effects. Nice character animation. Lighting isn't as prominent as in the first 
 game.
  
  GAMEPLAY 85
  Precise shooter action. A few features could be improved. Lack of team interaction and linear levels. 
 Enemies have more moves than Becket.
  
  PRODUCTION 83
  Lack of intro and another cliffhanger ending. Intel items cheaply tie all the loose ends. Unscrupulousness 
 of Armacham Corp. conveyed well in most levels.
  
  SOUND 95
  Great ambient music and sound effects. Sound holds its ground to level details. Excellent voice 
 acting. Too many scary sounds dilute horror experience.
  
  LASTING APPEAL 78
  For some the 10-15 hours of polished shooter action might warrant a second playthrough in solo 
 mode. Average multiplayer. Useless extras.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: IBLEEDBLUE33
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 28, 2009 6:36 pm PT
Review:  I really enjoyed the first F. E. A. R. with its slowing down time and fairly competent A. I. F. E. A. R. 
 2 basically brings more of the same but with more gore and a little darker and scarier throughout. 
 There are a couple of moments to break up the standard gameplay with a couple of turret sections 
 and the ability to pilot a gigantic walking around robot. But besides that it basically run and 
 gun gameplay.
  
  The story is fairly sub standard. You are trying to destroy ALMA... blah blah. I basically didn't 
 even follow most of it. Although the voice acting is good. For a fps the story is fine but also 
 short about 8 to 10 hours. This is ok for a fps if it has a great mp like the COD series. But it 
 is a problem to pay 60 dollars for a game of that length if the mp isn't good.
  
  So is the mp good? The answer is not really. This is 2009 and you are going to tell me that a company 
 is going to try and market a mp with out a party system. This is unacceptable with games like COD, 
 Halo, Battlefield, Team Fortress 2, etc. The list goes on and on. There are at least 10 fps with 
 better mp even if F. E. A. R. did have a party system. The only thing I could find that made it least 
 bit unique was the ability to slide into your opponent for a one hit kill, which is stupid by the 
 way. I played about 8 to 10 games of mp and was bored after 2.
  
  Overall a fun but short single player. A why bother mp makes F. E. A. R. a weekend rental nothing 
 more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HarrisDo
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 30, 2009 5:51 am PT
Review:  Previously on fear: An army of telepathetic controled soldiers, created by the biological weapons 
 company "Armachaman" starts to kill people. Really many people.! The soldiers are controled by 
 a crazy and gifted with special psychic powers who leads them to the detection of a young mysterious 
 girl named Alma.
  
  And that was the first game. You were controlling Point Man a dark non speaking person who can 
 slow down time but the real star in the game wasn't he. It was Alma. The sequel begins right before 
 the nuclear explosion in the "finale" of the first game. You are a member of a team that is send 
 there for a mission. To protect the president of "Armachaman" company. His name is Geneviene Aristide 
 and in no case needs to be murdered. Soon things are getting bad. You try to find your way between 
 Replica soldiers that try to kill you. Moreover weird things happen to your mind. Then not only 
 you develop a power that slows down time but you also begin to suffer from visons which depict 
 another older more naked and much more frightening Alma.
  
  In Fear 2 the levels do not consist of simple offices and narrow coridors but you play in flaming 
 hospitals schools streets... .The variety is big. That doesn't mean that you have the chance to 
 explore them. Most doors are locked but nevertheless you have more important things to do like 
 staffing conning towers and fighting a huge amount of enemies while wearing a mech suit. On the 
 other hand those levels deprive the frighten that the first game offered.
  
  However there is a lot of humour in the game and a readiness for playing. The heroe's reaction 
 when he meets the guy who interferfers during your discussions is inestimable. Something like this 
 happens also when he presents himself as Snake Fist. Furthermore the story that made the first 
 Fear famous remains strong with some smart backfalls.
  
  But the novelty isn't the Fear's strong point. The collection of key doors and the locket shots 
 in order to open a gate isn't a rare thing. All in all is a little common. The only unrelevant 
 in searching and with battle collectibles are the boosters which help you slowing down time a bit 
 more and some blue items (I don't know how exactly they are called) which offer you some extra information 
 about the city that Armachaman builted. Although they are little stupid it isn't bad to collect 
 them.
  
  Fortunately the battles are satisfying with a huge variety of weapons and ideal ammo amounts. The 
 shotguns are necessary in the game and work pretty good especially for close enemies. However you 
 aren't going to get close to a lot of enemies unless you slow down time. In the covering system 
 there has been some adds. Now there is a new ability. Your player can turn tables in order to cover 
 or use other items that will help him. In the battles there are of course some dissadvantages. 
 Despite the fact that the weapons are many may dissapoint you. Some guns for example aren't so 
 fun while using them.
  
  To sum up Fear 2 has been greatly improved and it is a game with an awesome atmosphere. However 
 as for the gameplay it is out of date and the final is a big mistake. All in all it is a game that 
 stimulates your senses.
  
  Graphics:9
  Gameplay:7
  Sound:8
  Controls:9
  Lasting appeal:8 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Emerald_Lance
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 15, 2009 12:32 pm PT
Review:  I'll start this off like so: Fear 2 wasn't as scary as Fear 1, plain and simple. If you played 
 Fear 1 for its scariness factor then you'll more than likely be let down with the sequel. I think 
 maybe the reason Fear 2 wasn't quite so scary was because of the story itself; other than the claustrophobia, 
 in Fear 1 the main reason Alma scared you was because you knew she was specifically coming for 
 you but you didn't know why, only to figure it out little by little as the game went on and to 
 have a huge twist towards the end (assuming you found most of the intel files) . However, in Fear 
 2 you find out fairly early why Alma is after you, leaving most of her appearances to be simply 
 mindless scare tactics.
  
  That said, Fear 2 is a solid FPS and (though, as I said before, is not quite as scary as Fear 1) 
 can occasionally make your heart jump. As you play you are treated to an assortment of weapons, 
 and Michael Beckette can hold a fairly large amount at one time (4) . You also have four different 
 types of grenades, each serving a different purpose. Though there are less weapons in this game 
 than in its predecessor, Fear 2 delivers when it comes to diversity. Slow motion control also makes 
 a comeback, and is just as fun as ever! There are "slow mo" enhancements to permanently raise you 
 max time in slow mo, as well as frightening moments that automatically activate it and keep you 
 in suspense.
  
  At first I thought it was used the Unreal engine since it plays more like the new Turok or a first 
 person Gears than it does like the older Fear titles (the blood effects is what really made me 
 think Unreal) , but it turns out that its actually an improved version of the original Fear engine. 
 Of course, the physics are beautifully done, as enemies will fly away when blasted several times 
 with a shotgun or they will slowly slump over after their head has exploded from a single sniper 
 round. The graphics are amazing and a powerful leap from Fear 1's low graphics quality, and the 
 sound effects are like something straight out of a horror movie, though many of the guns have muffled 
 sounding blasts.
  
  Of course, this game definitely has its flaws. As I said earlier, it just isn't as scary as the 
 first one was. The hair raising feeling of just knowing when Alma was behind you just isn't there 
 anymore, as I literally have missed moments when Alma actually was behind me and I didn't notice 
 until it was too late. Personally, I mainly blame the poor story for this; as I said earlier, knowing 
 that Alma was coming specifically for you but not knowing why was one of the main elements that 
 made Fear 1 so great. But you gain both points of knowledge fairly early in Fear 2 (in the second 
 level out of 15, to be exact) which casts aside any mystery the player felt he/she had to solve, 
 and makes this game a large compilation of mindless Alma appearances that have nothing really to 
 do with the main character (or Alma herself, for that matter) like they did in the prequel. Of 
 course, much of the game taking place in big open areas doesn't much help its scariness factor 
 either, as the feeling of being trapped and forced to go forward is now all but gone. Also, it 
 should be noted that, even though making the player expect a scary moment to come and then have 
 it NOT come can keep players on edge and watchful, it gets boring and very predictable when it 
 happens almost every other time you expect something to jump out at you.
  
  Speaking of the story, if plot is important to you then I recommend either playing Fear 1 first 
 or not playing this at all. Most of the story is confusing and unclear, as your only real incentive 
 to fight is because there is an enemy before you. Where it isn't confusing, its poorly written 
 with many cliches and "twists" the player knew would happen several levels in advance. For instance, 
 one of the things that made Alma so scary in Fear 1 was that she was a little girl (don't ask why, 
 its just that for some strange reason people find little girls incredibly frightening) but due 
 to poor story planning, Alma is only a little girl for the majority of the first level and stays 
 an adult for the rest of the game onward, severely hurting how scary she becomes. Another example 
 is halfway through the game Alma seems to develop a sort of crush on Michael Beckette, but its 
 never really elaborated on why and it leaves the player wondering how this will unfold, only to 
 find out after beating the game that it never is explored; myself, I think it was a brilliant and 
 unique plot twist that could have powerfully been exploited to (by itself) make a great story, 
 and then disappointingly wasn't. Those were just two examples, but there are more and I just don't 
 want to ruin the game. Needless to say, the last boss battle is a joke and is by far the most confusing 
 thing I've ever seen, and after seeing it for yourself you will wonder (after, of course, the initial 
 wave of utter confusion passes) how in the hell can they make a Fear 3!
  
  And don't even get me started with online. There is no diversity or replay value in online. You 
 die within just moments of spawning, giving you little time to react. You have the starting equipment 
 from hell and weapons along the map are few and far in between. The maps are mostly tight long 
 corridors and make for terrible situations when confronted with an enemy player. The only reason 
 I see to even explore online with this game is the fact that literally half the achievements are 
 online ones (most of which will kill the player's nerves before even getting close to) and even 
 then one must ask them self "Is it worth it?"
  
  Closing thoughts. Even though Fear 2 is indeed a fun game to play if you like FPS games, the story 
 and its namesake are severely lacking. Sure, the gameplay is next gen quality and very nice, but 
 the story is in itself a catch 22: what little sense it makes is only because I've played Fear 
 1 so if you haven't played that then you really won't understand, but if you HAVE played Fear 1 
 then Fear 2 just won't be that scary. Either way, the game is lacking in story and is more combat 
 oriented than story oriented, bottom line. I wouldn't believe the hype, since as far as the four 
 Fear games go, Fear 2 really isn't the best. Fear 1 is. If you haven't played Fear 1 or its two 
 expansions, do that first. Then, after you have a fierce understanding of the Fear universe, buy 
 Fear 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShadowbladeX
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 17, 2009 2:44 pm PT
Review:  Project Origin opens by placing you in the shoes of Sgt Michael Beckett and your squad being sent 
 in to retrieve the head of Armacham. However things go wrong when the origin facility explodes, 
 leaving you having to navigate a devastated city while trying to survive the supernatural attacks 
 of Alma. Firstly the games story is very well done. It could have been a but more in depth and 
 probably lacks a few points, but it is enthralling enough to keep you interested till the end of 
 the story. The action in the game is the biggest highpoint of the game. The controls are highly 
 intuitive and make combat easy. The fights are great fun and easy to hande, and theres a great 
 variety of weapons that makes the battles much more entertaining. The Slow-Mo ability is back and 
 it only serves to make the combat a whole lot better and much more fun. The few faults with the 
 game comes with the horror sequences, which is surprising coming from a horror game. It does offer 
 some genuine scares, and there will bemoments where you will jump in your seat out of fright, but 
 thats about it. The game doesn't really set the bar for horror, probably even falling short of 
 its predescessor. Luckily the action sequences help to block out the poor horror, and the game 
 in the end still serves as an excellent FPS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xenium1516
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 10, 2009 9:34 am PT
Review:  Fear 2 is all about fighting monsters, or ghost trying to kill this evil chick Alma. This game 
 has alot of suspense in it every level you do. Very scary with all these things jumping out in 
 front of you. the graphics are pretty good. on a scale of one through ten on the graphics i rate 
 it an 8. The bad thing about Fear 2 is that the multiplayer on xbox live is not that good at all. 
 It is boring as hell and you only fight against two people that are on teams leaving only four 
 people throughout the whole match. Overall if you are the type of person that loves to play a game 
 for just the achievments and the story then FEAR2 is a must game to buy. Trust me, FEAR 2 is totally 
 worth it. If you like to be scared, and if you like to jump out of your seat thinking that something 
 is behind you, but really isent then you must by FEAR 2 because this game can make it happen. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LtReviews
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 9, 2009 6:05 pm PT
Review:  F. E. A. R. Project Origin
  
  Gameplay: Scary. You may know the first FEAR by it's awesome AI and it's close quarters combat. 
 Project origin, has actually decided to open up certain combat scenarios, to larger areas. These 
 areas allow the intelligent AI to really shine, since they have more cover to work with. But what 
 scares you isn't the unscripted AI, it's the scripted events. The story takes place entirely in 
 first person, with no cutscenes, though, you'll see many scripted events like a soldier suddenly 
 being mauled by the ever-so-creepy "abominations", some atc soldiers being blown up by replicas, 
 and you getting pounced out of nowhere by alma. The pacing may seem predictable; the game let's 
 you know when something scary is about to happen, in "panic moments" when you character starts 
 to breath heavily, lights flicker, and shadows cross your path mysteriously- this makes it easy 
 to see when something scary is about to happen, but still surprises you after managing to instill 
 a fearful anxiety in you for what you know is going to happen. 
  
  Graphics: Very much improved, and up to par with 360 standards. The glow of enemies, the way blood 
 spatters, and the surealness of the explosions, may seem like they sacrificed realism, but it's 
 clear that this was all for the sake of making slo-mo fights in this "bullet-time" look AMAZING. 
 It truely does. You'll also note, that like in the first FEAR, after a firefight, you can no longer 
 recognize the room you were once in, which has been destroyed by combat; grenades blowing up gas 
 tanks, fire extinguishers, tables and desks overturned for cover, whatever on top of them flies 
 off, shooting through the glass to hit an enemy in slow-mo- and seeing the mix of glass shards 
 and blood flying... All this means slo-mo more than makes up for any criticism that these graphics 
 aren't better than killzone 2, which it seems people expect these games to be nowadays... Great 
 graphics, I promise you Project Origin has them.
  
  Sound: Is anyone critisizing the voice acting? I'm pretty sure I heard Jen Taylor (the voice of 
 Halo's Cortana) in there, and she did a great job. And also, great job by the actor playing Aristide; 
 you really get a sense of deception in her voice, and at the end, utterly CREEPY.
  The sound may actually scare you as much as the horror scene visuals, and rightfully so, to get 
 the most scares out of this, you have to have the sound CRANKED UP and the lights TURNED OFF. After 
 that, I think any claims this game wasn't scary, may just be a macho-act "I ain't fraid of nutthin!"
 
  
  Story: If you played the first game, there's only so much story to build on. You go through the 
 game, filling in EVERY single missing piece, and it answers every question you had from the first 
 game if you bother to read all the intel you find, of course, until the end, when you thought you 
 had all the answers.... ARE YOU KIDDING ME? WHAT DOES THAT MEAN???
  I'm sure the ending left all of you confused, but I won't let my frustration with it ruin an otherwise 
 solid story line, that was fitting with the pace of the game. People who haven't played the first 
 game will actually get more enjoyment out of the story in FEAR 2 than actual FEAR veterans; if 
 they read all the intel, since they still have the sense of mystery, that the intel fills in. In 
 the end, all the questions are answered (unlike many other horror game stories) , but you are left 
 with one new single unanswered question- what just happened?
  Don't worry, this doesn't spoil anything, you'll have to find out for yourself and beat the game.
 
  
  On a last note, difficulty is a bit easy, so FEAR vets will probably be hungry for an extra play-through 
 on the harder difficulty, which is slightly more fit for them, though gets a bit hectic in the 
 later levels. Multiplayer seems a little tacked on, but obviously isn't a major focus of the game, 
 and still has the fast-paced frenetic gameplay, but takes out the slow-mo mode- a little disappointing 
 for a game centered around this great slo-mo mechanic.
  
  Also, you get to pilot a huge kick-ass mech a few times, just to keep the gameplay fresh and non-repetitive. 
 And trust me, the mech sequences feel POWERFUL.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: SpectreBoy6
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 8, 2009 7:57 pm PT
Review:  SpectreBoy6 1st Reviews: F. E. A. R 2 Project Origin For 360
  
  the good: fun gameplay, cool weapon, great graphic
  the bad: complicated story (maybe because i haven't 
 play the first)
  
  Well.. this is my first reviews, and i'm gonna review F. E. A. R 2 for XBOX 360... 
  
  Well.. F. E. A. R 
 2 is an great horror FPS for me, great effect, fun gameplay. cool weapon (such as hammerhead) , but the 
 story is little complicated for me (like i said before.. maybe because i haven't play he first series) well 
 actually i haven't end this game, (it is ok to review this game?) hehehe..
  
  maybe some people said this game is not great and not bad
  but i think this game is great.. so 
 the point is, this game is not bad at all..
  
  and the score for F. E. A. R 2 Project Origin is...
  8.5/10 (my version)
  
  
  
  P. S: sorry 
 for any bad english.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ivory_soul
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 4, 2009 2:42 am PT
Review:  The Good: Amazing atmosphere, stripped away the bad stuff from FEAR 1, awesome mechs, well balanced
 
  
  The Bad: Mostly same weapons, a tad short, lame multiplayer, stupid cliffhanger ending (FEAR 3?) , 
 more or less the same as FEAR 1
  
  FEAR was a hyped up FPS back in 2006 that started the whole "creepy girl with the black hair over 
 her face" thing. FEAR was so great, not because of it's FPS action, but because of it's well executed 
 disturbing atmosphere. FEAR 2 is no exception with everything bad stripped from the first and lots 
 of new things thrown in. FEAR 2 is your basic FPS at heart, but if you look beyond the veil you'll 
 see something truly wonderful and that's, once again, the incredible atmosphere FEAR 2 portrays. 
 If you didn't already know, Alma is the creepy girl we are after that is somehow connected to soldiers 
 called Replicas, whilst she can control them telepathically. While the story in the first game 
 was almost impossible to follow the same problem infects FEAR 2 until toward the last few chapters 
 where the developers stop playing mind games and finally spill the beans on what and who Alma really 
 is.
  
  The main thing here I need to talk about though is atmosphere, you walk through school hallways 
 hearing lockers slam and things swirling around with darkness all around you. Disturbing ghostly 
 apparitions appear that you must shoot, creepy super humans infect certain areas, and just overall 
 the flashbacks you get of Alma are pretty damn creepy. The most scary parts in the game were when 
 your flashlight somehow stopped working and all you can do is find your way around with flickering 
 lights. While the atmosphere is great (especially with headphones on and the lights off!) FEAR 
 2 has some new gameplay mechanics that make the game even better. While new guns are added a lot 
 of the older ones are improved (along with the difficulty toned WAY down) . Most of your guns are 
 average such as machine guns, shotguns, rocket launchers, sniper rifles etc. The only unique guns 
 are the Hammerhead (shoots green needles that impale enemies to walls) , the Laser rifle (a giant 
 laser that shreds through everything) , and the Pulse rifle (which shoots giant blue orbs that disintegrate 
 everything in it's path) . Of course these guns are harder to find and are rarer, but they have 
 their uses.
  
  My favorite addition are the mech sections... yes who would have thought FEAR would have mechs. 
 Remember those annoying mechs in the first FEAR? Well now you can ride them! Hop into these heaping 
 piles of metal and you get your standard machine gun and rockets, but the mech controls so well 
 and the machine gun feels so powerful. It's great to see your enemies explode in a gory mess after 
 a few machine guns rounds and you really feel you're more powerful for them for once. If your health 
 starts running low hop out for a few minutes and your health will be restored. Included with old 
 mechanics are the slow-mo, health injectors (that are really hard to find) , easier to unlock achievements, 
 and still lame multiplayer. I also have to mention how firefights are nicely balanced with just 
 wondering around enjoying the atmosphere.
  
  Everything is just superb cosmetically with great voice acting, beautiful visuals (although they 
 could still be better) , and great lighting effects. Of course the campaign is a tad short running 
 in at about 6-8 hours and the cliffhanger ending is really retarded (aren't they all? *HALO 2*) 
 Overall the game just builds up into a nice climax and that's what we usually love with shooters. 
 While I recommend FEAR 2 for a great weekend rental it's nothing really more than that. The game 
 is still (to it's core) FEAR 1 which was monotonous shooting and FEAR 2 kind of feels that way 
 towards the end.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: skyyfox1
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 3, 2009 2:24 am PT
Review:  i played FEAR back when it forst came out. they released FEAR combat for free a short time later. 
 i played the single player and multi-player and was very impressed. this game is dark and spooky. 
 it is fun too. when i heard about FEAR 2 being made by on of my favorite developers, monolith, 
 i was very excited. days went by and i really wanted this game. so finally the day came when i 
 could buy FEAR 2. i got the console version. because i am sort of a game collector. and i knew 
 the console version would be worth more than the pc version. i got it home and started playing 
 it. the single player story is a compelling one. you see flashed of the creepy little girl named 
 alma. you have a variety of missions to accomplish. mostly stuff like gathering intel, meating 
 with your teammates and stuff like that. sort of like gears of war 2. there are lots of weapons 
 to use in the game. one of my favorites is the napalm cannon. this game is not for beginners. it's 
 difficult and extremely gory. the enemy will do all sorts of things to stop you. so you have to 
 be smarter than them. if you look down you will see your feet. which is cool. and you jump over 
 obstacles, and climb ladders and stuff like that. overall an excellent game that i am very happy 
 with. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gadeos
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 2, 2009 11:21 am PT
Review:  A sequel of a GREAT game always comes with very high expectations. GoW got a hell of an improvement 
 with its sequel, Resident Evil 5 will surely kick some serious A**, specially RE4's, and this last 
 one was simply awesome.
  Something like this was expected for FEAR 2. Creepy atmosphere packed with some sick action made 
 the FEAR a game worth playing over and over again, having you eager for knowing more about ALMA 
 and all that paranormal phenomena, FEAR 2 tries hard, really, it does deliver some of that original 
 formula with somewhat better graphics (no that of a big jump, but yes, better) . 
  Bad thing is that "creepy-ness" is kind of lost here, ALMA's apparitions are somehow predictable, 
 and don't make jump off your seat like the original did many times.
  Story has taken an unexpected step that's cool but doesn't clarify almost anything.
  Still, FEAR 
 2 is not a bad game, it has plenty of action and Replica soldiers are better and more intelligent 
 (OK, not all the time but most of it) , and for FPS games fans (like me) , it's really worth your 
 every time spent in it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: clepsydra
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 2, 2009 4:29 pm PT
Review:  F. E. A. R. 2 adds new elements by trying to combine more militant features found in other popular 
 titles with the horror that captured fans' attention in the original. The problem in doing so is 
 that it plays like a badly-edited movie. The focused ambiance which had you cowering under the 
 covers now takes a back seat to a choppy mix of blood and bullets. The gore is simply thrown in 
 as a generic filler, therefore, making the entire experience less engrossing than the first. The 
 action is challenging and fun, and there are a few scares that get your heart pumping. However, 
 as a whole, it's a lot of boring wander, searching for the spark that held your interest from before, 
 while trying to ignore a few audio and drawing glitches. At least you get to laugh at the obvious 
 bits stolen from games such as Gears Of War (Rock 'n' Roll music) , Call Of Duty (in-your-face struggling) , 
 and other numerous "mech" games, along with an even more laughable, typical sequel ending. F. E. 
 A. R. 2 is still definitely worth renting because of its gameplay and decent graphics. Just wait 
 until the price comes down before purchasing something that comes so close to its original, yet 
 so far. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WonderBread88
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 6, 2009 11:42 am PT
Review:  Summary:
  --Very fun FPS gameplay, characters seem un-polished and have bland personalities. The game has 
 a jumpy scariness to it, a lot of the creepiness is in the environment. Trying to figure out Alma's 
 motives is about as impossible as finding the meaning of life, monolith should have made a more 
 obvious reason for Alma to be haunting and killing everyone around. Bullet-Time is a neccissary 
 component in F. E. A. R. 2's combabt, but I wish it wasn't. Bullet-Time has become a thing of the 
 past. Unless Monolith had used it in some new or important piece to the story they should have 
 just let The Matrix and Max Payne keep their genius use of bullet-time. This games story depth 
 is pale compared to the first F. E. A. R. If you have already played the original FEAR, you may just 
 stay away from spending money on this one.
  
  Key Positives:
  --Overall fun FPS gameplay, quick and easy learning scale
  --Great selection and amount of different 
 weapons. There are some new weapons to go along with the old weapons, but finding ammo for them 
 can be tedious.
  --Fantastic Audibles, Ambience, and voice. This game is best using a good pair of headphones or 
 a good solid surround sound system. Good surround sound can add a lot to the overall scary and 
 jumpiness.
  --The info and objective tool is adds a good amount of detail to the story and back history, but 
 even with this the games story is pale compared to the first in the series.
  --Enemy forces are very smart, they use their environment to their advantage, including knocking 
 or pushing over furniture to use for cover.
  
  Key Negative:
  --Story was difficult to fully understand. Monolith claimed that after beating the game that the 
 player would apparently have some great understanding of why and how all of it happened. Well if 
 their statement was true then I must be and idiot or this game tells the story in too confusing 
 of a way.
  --Characters are bland, their personalities are quite typical and leave no real impression on the 
 player after everything is said and done.
  --Enemy forces seem ridiculously hard when you can shoot more than two 5" nails through their heads 
 and they STILL won't die.
  --As I stated in the positive, enemy forces can use their environment to their advantage. Unfortunately, 
 the furniture, that you use for cover, shields you from NOTHING.
  --It's nearly impossible to figure out why Alma is after your character in this game, Project Origin 
 does a poor job of showing Alma's motives when compared to the original F. E. A. R. --End was was 
 shocking, in the sense that I was surprised that the developers would actually end the game the 
 way they did. I won't ruin the ending, but to me it sucked and left me thinking of all of the ways 
 they could have ended it in a better, more understandable way.
  
  Overall Worth Buying?
  I would wait till the price drops, or buy it used. For instance, buy mine on eBay if you want, 
 cause I'm sure it will be posted later today. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Moralez13
Rating: 4.5
Date: Feb 27, 2009 7:57 pm PT
Review:  Thank you very much Monolith for messing up such an excellent franchise! I played every single 
 FEAR game out there, beat every episode, and it was great! Who's idea was it to replace horror with 
 gun play? I thought i was playing Soldier of Fortune or something (yeah, the sucking one) ! First 
 of all the graphics suck ass, it's like they took the old engine and stretched the new textures 
 on it, feels like Queen Latifah in Oliva Wilde's underwear.... I thought that the flashlight in 
 the old games sucked, but this is something different, i actually came to liking the old one better 
 than this **** it's like trying to find your way around in the dark with a cell phone back light; 
 and the little **** starts flickering in the worst places, you can't see **** it's blurry cause 
 it's supposed to be scary and feels like the hero needs to take a dump, and you need to find the 
 way out to the ****ter! The only way to make the game playable is to turn up the brightness level, 
 and it ruins all the atmosphere. I haven't even started speaking about the atmosphere, cause it's 
 non existent, it's just a set of short transitions from one firefight to the next. There is no 
 suspense, absolutely, you just see the **** appearing in the most obvious spots. You remember how 
 it used to be a treat to see Alma and **** your pants, cause it was so unexpected and rare, and 
 you spent the rest of the game being fearing that she would appear around the corner, well, don't 
 expect it from this game! I think what ruins this game is the HUD, cause it doesn't feel like you're 
 in the game, but rather a fish tank, oh **** the HUD, **** the game, there are so many things ruining 
 it that i'm not even gonna waste my finger strength on it! DON'T BUY THIS GAME, RENT IT, AND DON'T 
 GET YOUR HOPES UP! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Joman1000
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 27, 2009 10:25 am PT
Review:  Now, I suppose having gone into the game with absolutely NO expectations because I was so disappointed 
 with the first game in the series, I was setting myself up to be at least a little bit satisfied. 
 Well, let's just say I was more satisfied than I thought I would be. I will admit there is nothing 
 that makes F. E. A. R. 2 'revolutionary;' it's basically Condemned mixed with the bullet-time of Max 
 Payne with the occasional Mech level, but at the same time it's not really trying too hard to be 
 anything else... and the number of unexpected scripted events definitely kept me interested in 
 the story. The A. I. isn't ingenious, but smart enough to hold its own, which is just fine. Like 
 I said before, the atmosphere is very 'Condemned' with a pinch of 'Doom 3,' which was right up 
 my alley.
  
  F. E. A. R. 2 doesn't really bring anything new to the table, but for those of us that aren't completely 
 jaded and stuck up, it doesn't have to. I thought it was creepy and fun, and it's that simple. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: weapon_d00d816
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 25, 2009 6:40 pm PT
Review:  F. E. A. R. 2: Project Origin is a good game, I'll give it that, but really lacks the magic from the 
 first game (as most sequals often do) . It continues a confusing story that I obviously never understood, 
 and gives an overdone online multiplayer. In terms of technology, it is far superior to its successor. 
 But in terms of gameplay, it's merely slightly better.
  
  The campaign of F. E. A. R. 2 wasn't what I'd call scary, but more like edgy, tense, and startling. 
 Like something could pop out at any moment, but never really does. It certainly likes to play with 
 your imagination. I think the creepy atmosphere couldn't have been done any better. As for the 
 story, as stated above, it confused me. Not confusing in the way that a plot twist does, but confusing 
 in the way of "what the hell does that mean?", "which enemies are fighting who?", and "where do 
 I go in this labyrinthine system of hallways?". It's not allways confusing though, especially in 
 firefights. Firefights with enemy soldiers are actually a relief. A relief that something isn't 
 going to pop out and go "boo". A relief that you can get into some intense action instead of being 
 on your toes. As for the other enemies like the glowing electrical ghost-like creatures and invisible 
 assassains, they make me soil myself.
  
  And on we go with the multiplayer review portion. It seems as if the multiplayer was overdone and 
 tried to be recreated in a way. It's not very fun compared to the top online shooters because it 
 lacks so much. There's not much variety in your weapons, armor, or maps. Team Deathmatch, the most 
 common gametype, feels like rat-in-a-cage, run 'n' gun fights. Not very fun and not easy unless 
 you have catlike reflexes. The only thing I find fun in the online portion is the Armored Front 
 gametype. An interesting gametype based on Territories style gameplay, but with much larger maps 
 and Mech Suits. It gives you the chance to spread your wings and give you room to play, unlike 
 most of the other cramped playspaces.
  
  Overall, F. E. A. R. 2: Project Origin has an interesting yet confusing campaign, and a sub-par online 
 multiplayer, but is definately worth a rent. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jukaga
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 25, 2009 4:13 pm PT
Review:  If you enjoyed Monolith's original 2005 hit F. E. A. R. you will like this game, no question. Alma 
 still has that ability to turn my spine into ice and the bullet-time mechanic again provides that 
 vivid action movie experience that made the original such a fun game to play. The first few levels 
 are a little on the uninspired side, but about midway through the game the intensity level picks 
 up and never lets off. The flagship highlight of the game for me was the Wade Elementary School 
 level, it provided some of the most thrilling firefights in the game and some genuine creep out 
 scary moments. There are some mere BOO! moments but for me the game succeeded in establishing a 
 mood of dread and terror that is seldom matched, let alone exceeded in the genre. The final sequence 
 is very, very memorable and I'm stoked for the inevitable F. E. A. R. 3, I hope that the original 
 protagonist Point Man makes his return. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: filmfreak1138
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 25, 2009 8:31 am PT
Review:  I bought the first F. E. A. R. and enjoyed the story allot. I was hungry for more, and when F. E. A. R. 
 Files came out... I had to get it. I've enjoyed F. E. A. R. 2, but not as much as I did the first 
 time I played the first game.
  
  I thought F. E. A. R. 2 look way better, but the story was not as deep. I am very much a story type 
 of guy, and it was not as strong here.
  
  I enjoyed the enviorments though. They looked good and some of them really set the mood. The sound 
 is what makes the hairs on your neck stand up. It took me about 8 hours to get through it, but 
 again, it left me wanting more. Im just hoping F. E. A. R. 3 has a DEEP story...
  
  Story: 7
  
  Sound: 9
  
  Graphics: 9
  
  Game Play: 8
  
  If you have gamefly or you 
 rent from Blockbuster... this def needs to be in your list of games to play. You can sit down and 
 play through it in a few sittings. You will enjoy this game.
  
  Im not to sure about online play. I did not get to deep into that, but looked good. 
  
  If 
 you enjoyed the first F. E. A. R. then you will be pleased with this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cannabis64
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 23, 2009 2:00 pm PT
Review:  Okay first off lets say this, F. E. A. R. was just perfect. Now F. E. A. R. 2 didn't live up to the scares 
 of the original, but improved on the gameplay elements and also advanced the ever-more interesting 
 story. Alright lets talk scares, it had a few good ones but never managed to match the atmosphere 
 of the original. Why? well probably because it moved from just office stuff to wandering through 
 a city, also the fire-fights are frequent. So how about the gameplay? Well the slo-mo is much improved, 
 there is never a moment in the game where you will be overly stuck on a fight and everything about 
 the weaponry and killing with it is just plain fun. The Multi-player takes some getting used to, 
 but isn't bad (Armored front is interesting) . Moving on to the story telling aspect, F. E. A. R. 2 
 does this very well, by not only telling you important info while you play but also in rewarding 
 little intel pick-ups. All and all I had a lot of fun playing this game, and will explore the multi-player 
 a little more, for real fans of the series I say go get this for sure, as for non-fans if you enjoy 
 a good solid shooter that will certainly stand out a little from others I also suggest grabbing 
 this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sensei_hEnRY
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 22, 2009 7:27 pm PT
Review:  Fear Alma again on the next F. E. A. R. game, Project Origin. It's a solid shooter with better, more 
 colorfull graphics, wider environment, new mech gameplay, and deadlier Alma. Too bad, it doesn't 
 as scary as the original F. E. A. R.
  
  The story, now we play as Beckett, not the point man on original F. E. A. R.. The story start 30 minutes 
 before the big bang on Auburn facility on the 1st F. E. A. R. Beckett is assigned on SFOD-D mission 
 to protect an VIP (weird name... umm... Generive Aristed or sumthing) from Armacham trooper. Not 
 so long after the blast, Beckett and his squad are taken to the secret facility to be transformed 
 into Replica soldiers. But the armacham strike the facility. Now Beckett become synchronize with 
 Alma so, Beckett and his squad must struggle to fight Armacham (who want to kill them) and Alma 
 (who want to kill them too) . Amazing story, i'm starting to understand the whole programs about 
 Alma and Replica soldiers on this game. It's a shame that F. E. A. R. 2 Project Origin can't be as 
 scary as its predesessor, Alma can be very predictable so, it won't be a surprise when she suddenly 
 jump right at you. Another thought, maybe the bright, more colorfull graphics make this game not 
 scary. The first F. E. A. R. is really dark and the environtment is as pale as Alma so it gives us 
 more scary feeling. Another bad thing is the game ended badly... but the game makes you (well, at 
 least me) understand why Alma is really angry, i can understand how Alma really suffering so i 
 sympatize her.
  
  The gameplay, F. E. A. R. 2 Project Origin gives you the same gameplay mechanics with the 1st F. E. A. R. 
 there are some changes on button mapping like (Y) for slo-mo. You can't lean right or left now 
 but you can slide cover. New mech action give you a new challenge on the game. Oh yeah, now you 
 can only carry 3 medkits (not 10 like the point man) . The AI still the best on gaming world. Monolith 
 really know how to make the enemy really act like human. They always look for another way to flank 
 you. They won't stay on one spot and shoot at us mindlessly. They can make cover from vending machine, 
 chairs, boxes, or car's door too, amazing! Too bad they can't throw back frag grenade (well, it 
 blow in less then 3 secs so i can understand that)
  
  The graphics, F. E. A. R. 2 project Origin gives you better graphics (better then condemned 2 too) 
 with more color, more effects, and wider environment. Our teammate and enemy movement is great 
 too (nice mo-cap) . New weaponry design is great. i really like the assault rifle, combat shotgun, 
 and the sniper rifle. 3D HUD is awesome too. 
  
  The sound is great, the cast doing a really good job too.
  
  Results, the game is solid, its 
 highly recommended for you who like modern FPS.
  
  note: i really like Lt. Stokes, she is absolutely cute (maybe too cute for this game) and sexy. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrnivek
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 22, 2009 1:45 pm PT
Review:  Just finished F. E. A. R. 2 and enjoyed it, not the best shooter out there but enough to keep my attention 
 all the way to the end. The whole horror angle didn't really work, it wasn't really scary. Only 
 once did I get surprised by Alma, turned around once in the game expecting a soldier and it was 
 Alma. That was a perfectly placed event, but for the most part the bodies flying around, furniture 
 getting moved and ghostly people were just interesting to look at. I think the best game so far 
 I played to set this sort of mood is Deadspace.
  
  But I did enjoy the game, read thru a bit of the intel as I went thru and really enjoyed the parts 
 where you got to man a turret and power suit. I can't tell you how much fun it was to jump in the 
 suit and just utterly rip the environment and enemy soldiers up. When I got to the end of a killing 
 spree in one of those things it was quite the disappointment to have to jump out.
  
  Also the AI that everyone talked about in the first game and this one is fun to go up against. 
 Not the normal wait and shoot the guys head when he pops up. They run around, retreat, pull up 
 cover and flank you. Some times I would get in that mode where I would be waiting for a head to 
 pop up and the guy already sneaked his way past me and was behind me shooting. Awesome! Best part 
 of the game in my opinion. 
  
  Tried the multiplayer too at the end and that was a big disappointment, I think I played capture 
 the control point and really don't see this as a keeper if your looking for some fun multiplayer. 
 Gameplay was laggy and I found it hard to tell your team from the other and would sometimes come 
 into a room where there is one guy from the other side just ripping everyone up and they are standing 
 there not able to see who is who. 
  
  All in all a fun shooter, not sure of the replay ability but something definitely to check out. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rethis
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 21, 2009 3:45 am PT
Review:  Graphics: 9.0/10
  beautifully rendered explosions. Excellent atmospheric concepting. spooky creatures. Guys in outfits 
 that mostly make sense. Guns look good. Shots look good. Particle effects are awesome. Not quite 
 Rainbow Las Vegas but close.
  Ghosts who attack are a little bit like cheap outlines as opposed to the beautiful translucence 
 of the ghosts you can't kill.
  Graphics take a downslide in multiplayer.
  
  Gameplay: 7/10
  Finally someone gave you back the right to carry unbelievable amounts of guns. 
 That won't save you. You can only use one at a time. Once again we tell the developers at Monolith 
 thank you for thinking of the all elusive FUN FACTOR. The story is a little disjointed at times 
 but over all an unbelievably fluid and awesome control, visual and accuracy with almost everything. 
 Thank you for the grenade cook timer. 
  Can get hard if you are not prepared and thinking of cover. 
  Enemy AI don't use cover well. 
 While they are smarter and don't stand there and get shot they don't close with any intellect. 
 Shotguns should get close. Assault rifles should keep distance and sub-machine gunners should do 
 a little of both but always with back up.
  Overall awesome Story mode.
  Unfortunately the online play really hurts this game. Basically there shouldn't be one. It's lag 
 city. Aiming is off. Starting guns are interesting but the level design is convoluted. Really like 
 the fly cam though. Inventive and allows you to check out the level before you get shot up.
  
  Sound: 9/10
  Just like the graphics everything is in place. 
  
  Immersion: 9/10
  A 
 rare thing I bring up but very important for Horror Genre gaming. Only a few others have caught 
 this. Silent Hill. People say Resident Evil but I don't agree. We were jumping in the middle of 
 the day with company. Can't play alone. Door closed because of wind and I turned the console off. 
 Sometimes the mech and troops thing makes you feel like god and destroys the scary aspect. Pretty 
 rare though. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tylerpunk101
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 20, 2009 6:34 pm PT
Review:  F. E. A. R 2 Project Origin is a game made by Monolith a decent 1st person shooter company. First 
 ill start with some pros, the gameplay in the game had a good feel and i enjoyed this controls 
 and setup. The campaign was a average length adn multiplayer i found fun. The multiplayer was actually 
 suprisingly fun. its 2 teams trying to finish an objective or just down right team deathmatch. 
 Now toward the cons. The game was not scary one bit, this bored me and i think they missed on some 
 parts that they could have gave you a thrill. The multiplayer characters look horrible running 
 around, just terrible. The campaign left questions not answerd. I think the game was good just 
 not good enough to the hype that it was played out for. This is tyler caporaso giving fear 2 a 
 8.5/10. (Ignore this) FEAR 2 Fear 2 FEAR 2 Fear 2 FEAR 2 Fear 2 
::::::

::::::
UserName: illufox
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 20, 2009 5:20 pm PT
Review:  I loved the first one and knew that I had to buy this one as soon as I got a hold of the Demo. 
 This game is truly amazing! While Far Cry 2 was the best shooter of 2008, this could easily be 
 the best shooter of 2009!
  
  I love the amazing environments, the realistic AI, the weapons and the overall atmosphere. It pulls 
 you right in and doesn't let you go until you can't keep your eyes open anymore.
  
  The game reminded me a bit of Halflife 2 which is my most favorite game every made. It is not as 
 scary as Silent Hill which I like. It just uses the right amount of horror and action to make up 
 for a game that can be loved by any shooter fan.
  
  I've only tried the multiplayer once. The map was cool, but the heavy armor on most players makes 
 it impossible to kill them, which takes away some of the fun. But I'm used to multiplayers like 
 this. The only multiplayers I really ever enjoyed were Call of Duty Series and Far Cry 2. However, 
 I didn't buy this for the multiplayer, so this doesn't really bother me.
  
  Overall a must have for every FPS fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XxDaRkNiNjAxX
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 20, 2009 4:54 pm PT
Review:  I have never played the first F. E. A. R but if it is like this, it rocks! This has the BEST storyline 
 campaign of any game I have played in the LONGEST time. The campaign mode is incredibly good and 
 highly addictive. I did get frightened and jumped a LOT but the adrenaline rush was worth it. If 
 you are a fan of this series, this is a MUST buy, but for noobs like me, rent it first and see 
 if you enjoy the multiplayer because you will LOVE the single player. Gamespot under reviewed this 
 game. Deserves at least an 8.0 or higher. The combat system is awesome with the added effect of 
 slow motion, it makes it even better. When you are getting off your 360, you will be craving the 
 adrenaline rush that F. E. A. R.2 will provide. To sum it up, fans=must buy, noobs=rent it first (then 
 wait for it to go on sale lol) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ikeldin
Rating: 5
Date: Feb 20, 2009 2:00 pm PT
Review:  There are lots of good things to say about this game. The visuals are a treat to look at and the 
 soundtrack and voice acting are top notch. But this time around, I just don't feel compelled to 
 play. Every level seems like a rehash of the previous level, despite new weapons, enemies and terrain. 
 These additions seem shoehorned in to create the illusion of variety.
  
  The original game was so freaky that every night I would ask myself if I should play right before 
 bed. The original story unfolded nicely and the scares were unexpected and intriguing. With F. E. A. R. 
 2, I can almost predict when Alma is going to jump out and cause me to hit the B button repeatedly 
 (fun!) . And being in a dark room with weird apparitions gets pretty irritating after a while. Furthermore, 
 I didn't care what happened to any of the characters, myself included. I just wanted to finish 
 the game so I could sell it on Ebay and go play the original again.
  
  Still, it's interesting to play a flawed game that almost gets there (sort of like watching a weird, 
 ambitious failure of a movie) . It's just as important to know why something doesn't work as it 
 is to be blown away. Which reminds me, I have to call my cousin and tell him to give me back my 
 copy of Bioshock.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheDanwich
Rating: 5
Date: Feb 25, 2009 9:20 am PT
Review:  The saddest realization about this otherwise solid shooter is that there is nothing recommendable 
 about it. The mundane environments don't add any emphasis to the eerie storyline. The artificial 
 intelligence (the games enemy) , while smart and tactful, fail to add any challenge to the experience. 
 Even the franchise's continued addition of slow motion combat hurts the games difficulty drastically. 
 Plus the story rides the line between clich and borders the element of lunacy all too frequently. 
 What a disappointment. Especially since this is the sequel to 2005's strong first person shooter 
 F. E. A. R..
  
  F. E. A. R. 2 Project Origin does not come off as a complete failure by any means. Granted, the game 
 still manages to fall into many of the classic pitfalls that come with developing a sequel. It 
 does not, however, fail to produce what it promised. 
  
  The gun play is solid. Players will find a some what bland yet effective arsenal of weaponry to 
 dispatch the numerous foes present. This element is still a soothing comfort, especially to any 
 shooter fan. The mini boss battles do change up the normal run and gun aspect of game play but 
 not too drastically. These moments are always eerie and disturbing enough to be a strong highlight 
 of the experience. It is a shame however that more was not added to these infrequent encounters 
 though, as they play out how the rest of the games combat system. Wander aimlessly through linear 
 level design, get scared by a little girl, and shoot bad guys until they stop moving.
  
  The sound and ambiance of the environments are bland. F. E. A. R. 2 barely meets the already set standard 
 for what a horror title should look and sound like. Visually it's still impressive but not mind 
 blowing. Environments have a polished look, and overall the graphics of the game meet standards 
 for a next generation title, but nothing beyond. The narrative is told in a boring and uninspired 
 manner. Through the eyes of your main character Michael Becket you will experience the horrors 
 and atrocious acts of a little psychic girl named Alma. She seems to be obsessed with following 
 this poor Delta Force agent around and scaring the pants off him, and killing his friends. Depressing, 
 but it still doesn't change the fact that Michael Becket does not speak, giving him the emotional 
 depth of a q-tip. There is just no eloquent device used to tell this story. Leaving it feeling 
 bland and rushed until the very confusing and disappointing ending. 
  
  My biggest quarrel with F. E. A. R. 2 Project Origin is that it takes no risks. Instead of trying 
 to innovate the first person shooter genre it merely sticks to the conventions already set in place 
 by its predecessor, which is not a bad way to go by any means. But this is done to such an extreme 
 that nothing about this game feels new. Rather, it feels like yesterdays news. I would not even 
 recommend this as a rental to fans of the series. If you must though, prepare to blaze through 
 it and forget about it just as quickly. 
  
  I give F. E. A. R. 2 Project Origin 2.... sandwiches out of 4
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ares360
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 19, 2009 2:00 pm PT
Review:  Fear 2 is somewhat new to me. I played the first one but didn't finish it. Basically your Sgt. Beckett 
 with your squad of special ops. You are cut up and are surgically amplified to attract Alma."Your 
 like free pizza at an anime convention"-Snake fist. (in game ally) The somewhat sad part about Fear 
 2 is that it's scarier but not to the extent I was hoping. Their are great moments every now and 
 then but no constant fear of being killed. You actually get use to fighting Allma in a rapid button 
 mash. The ending is surprising but will leave anyone questioning. You fight zombie civillians who 
 raise dead soldiers nearby to kil you (have a shotty) , ghosts that charge at but die in 1 shot ( 
 take very little health) , Replica soldiers which are weak at first but get a hell of a lot more 
 anoying, Archaman soldiers who created your super amplification and what to bury you in ruble just 
 like they did to Alma. Fear 2 reveals much about Alma and how she hit puberty and is now a teenager 
 trying to get a hold on you and your team. Their are so called boss battles but their in fist combat, 
 if you played Turok you'll know what I'm talking about. You'll fight Alma, Colonel Vanek (the dick 
 who keeps sending men to kill you and Alma once and for all) and a Archaman droid. Some upsides 
 to this apocalyptic nightmare are you get to control the droids more than once. You'll tear away 
 at Replicas and some Archaman guards. The game is only 14 sections which I beat in my 5 day rental. 
 The weapons are good and consist of Assault rifle, sniper rifle, SMG, combat shotty, automatic 
 shotty (way better and guess who have them as well, yep you guessed it the Replicas) , Missile Launcher, 
 pistol, Hammerhead (a spike shooting gun that can pin enemies to walls) laser gun, (that splits 
 enemies in half) plasma rifle that bounces off walls until it hits someone and is a 1 hit kill 
 to anything, and a semi-automatic rifle (only in onilne) . Graphics are stunning but the thing that 
 makes Fear 2 great is the AI who act like real players and will stay back, produce cover by flipping 
 or moving objects, and will work together to annihalate you.
  Your able to move cover as well.
  
  Multiplayer- A handful of maps and a point system. You 
 can only have 15 points maximum, you can't gain anymore by ranking up. It's a balncing system. 
 Unfortunately everyone thinks alike and picks heavy armor and the SMG. You can choose between no-medium-heavy 
 armor, pick through shock, incendinary, frag genades or proximity mines. You can choose between 
 the weapons I've told you about. Everything costs points, the better it is the more points it cost 
 just like heavy armor or the assault rifle=8 pts each. This is all undermined by the very laggy 
 servers which really there aren't any its just gamer hosted ranked and unranked games.
  
  Total- 8.75 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheDarkChainsaw
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 18, 2009 2:57 pm PT
Review:  Let me start this review off by saying this game deserves at least a 9. 7.0 for what, graphics? 
 They didn't complain about F. E. A. R.'s graphics. This game takes the graphics of FEAR one and brutally 
 slaughters them. The multiplayer isn't that good? Come on it's Call of Duty 4 with different weapons! 
 This is an amazing game. The campaign, while not too scary, has amazing level design and all that 
 good stuff. A variety of enemies and weapons, a VERY surprising ending (pretty hilarious too) and 
 so many other things make this a great game. As always I have a complaint with this game like I 
 do all others. Could have been scarier. Come on, the title is FEAR!!! Well, that's an overlookable 
 mistake anyway. Well then. That's it I guess. Well, I suppose multiplayer could have been a bit 
 better. If it had better multiplayer, and if it was scarier, this game would have been given a 
 10 by me. Definitly. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gen_Warbuff
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 18, 2009 7:54 am PT
Review:  I will start this review off by letting you know that I never did play the first F. E. A. R game to 
 completion. For some reason, I just found it boring at the time, only played like two levels of 
 it. 
  
  So when I first put F. E. A. R 2 in the 360, I was pretty much brought right back to a very similar 
 environment. My first thought was "here we go again". I had to FORCE myself to play through about 
 the first half of this game, it just seemed uninspired, boring, and like I had done it all before. 
 But, once I hit the Elementary level, the game kicked into high gear. At least for a short period 
 of time.
  
  
  Story: 7
  
  As if we players have never had to escape to the surface from an underground medical lab, the folks 
 at Monolith throw us right back there. How many times have we done this? How many times have we 
 had to "uncover" the truth? Is there no more originality out there? Overall the story is not bad 
 , it's just a been there, done that, again. And the way you unfold the story has been done over 
 and over and over again. 
  
  Graphics: 7.5
  
  Again, felt like nothing special. If you have played either the first F. E. A. R game, or either of 
 the two Condemned games you will know what I am talking about. Sure the graphics work, but over 
 all they are nothing to write home about. They are clean, and there are hardly any frame rate issues. 
 However, what makes up for it is what you can see in the details of levels and slow motion effects. 
 I don't know if it can ever get old killing baddies in slow-mo. 
  
  Level Design: 7
  
  Holy crap, another office? Another underground lab? Another School? What kept me going through 
 most levels was the pure desire to not play in them, I just wanted OUT!!!! Sure they tried to mix 
 them up, but not enough to keep them interesting. One cool part was being able to use the Mechs. 
 That too has been done before, but tearing guys to tiny chunks was awesome. They also did a decent 
 job adding small detail to each level. It probably took me longer to play the game just because 
 I found myself looking around at things. 
  
  Controls/Gameplay: 8.5
  
  About what you would expect from a FPS. Easy to use, never seemed like you had to fumble around 
 to use them. Although big gun battles seemed few and far between, when they did happen they were 
 intense and fun. GREAT blood splatter effects, combined with Slo-mo is really what kept me in the 
 game. Watching bodies fly
  
  Creep Effect: 7
  
  Boohoo. Had me then you lost me. What is supposed to be a "horror/action/thriller kinda a game 
 really only gets into that "What the hell was that" mode two, maybe three times during the game. 
 From what I remember of the first game, it seems the creep effect was almost lost or forgotten 
 in this game. Just one warning. There is one OMG! moment in Snake Fist, that is all I am saying. 
 
  
  
  
  Multiplayer/Online: 5
  
  Talk about been there done that. Is it a rule that all FPS games must have death match? Lag, along 
 with a very weird physics thing going on made online almost a complete bust for me.
  
  Fun Factor: 7
  
  At the end of the day, F. E. A. R 2 is probably just a rental for most people. 
 There are some fun moments, but nothing that would bring me back to play it again. I pretty much 
 finished the game just so I could do this review :)
  
  
  Overall = 7 
::::::

::::::
UserName: glendale1
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 17, 2009 5:36 pm PT
Review:  ** Caution - May contain spoilers **
  
  This game was good.
  
  I liked the action. The action was smooth and interesting and frequent.
  
  I liked the weapons. 
 The weapons were varied and frequently occurring enough to give you a chance to try them all out. 
 
  
  I liked the Powered Armor. It was cool to be nigh indestructible for a short while. The enemy having 
 Powered Armor and me being without was tough to get through.
  
  I lliked the intel (written clues to the backstory) . I did NOT like the scarcity of the story itself. 
 I kept reading all these interesting tidbits about characters I never saw or actually heard from 
 in the game itself. The gameplay, while fun and well done, became a little stale towards the late 
 middle of the game through to the end.
  
  I did not like the environments. While they were beautifully rendered, most of the environments 
 were the glorified "tunnels" we have all come to expect and loathe in FPS games. And I hate it 
 when my character, who is capable of jumping, cannot seem to jump over a one foot high pile of 
 rubble. Next to invisible walls, it is my least favorite thing.
  
  *Here is the main spoiler in this review*
  Everybody dies. I did not like all the characters 
 die (except the villains) . Don't spend a day or two making me like a character (or two, or three) 
 only to kill them. Let at least some of them live, will ya'?
  
  In summary, this was a good game. I liked it and will probably play it again just before F. E. A. R. 
 3 comes out. It could have been so much better with some extra writing and character expansion.
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: -HaloHitman-
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 17, 2009 4:07 pm PT
Review:  The first F. E. A. R. had alot of praise for its amazing action and combat, and its paranormal/supernatural 
 atmosphere that keeps you on the edge. The second game has not quite reached that level yet.
  The game startsyou off as playing Becket a soilder that is in a different part of the city the 
 time the nuke went off in the first game. Through the game you start to solve more problems with 
 the paranormal crisis at hand, eventually you will have to confront Alma and try to destroy her.
 
  First off, the game has amazing graphics since the first F. E. A. R., I mean it is a major reboot 
 for the franchise.
  Secondly, the weapon's are powerful and brilliant, the make you feel like you have the upper hand, 
 also the Mech suit enables you to tear enemies apart because of the amazing missiles and bullets 
 it fires.
  Lastly the atmosphere, it's not as good as the first, as I said the first kept you on the edge 
 of your seat, the second game just made you hiccup (Laugh's) , it's not as scary, but there is one 
 level that makes it weird, the elementary level, what's creepier than a kids school with ghosts.
 
  I'm not gonna tell you the ending of F. E. A. R. 2, but I am gonna tell you that I smell a 3rd game, 
 because everybody knows you can't stop a franchise after the 2nd game, overall I would rent it, 
 but if you buy it go ahead.
  P. S.: The game's more bloody than the first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: varkdm
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 17, 2009 3:22 pm PT
Review:  Fear 2 : Project Origin, Xbox 360 (review system) , PC and PS3.
  
  Project Origin marks the return of the original developers, Monolith, to the FEAR franchise; following 
 on from some decidedly poor expansion packs, they needed to do something pretty good in order to 
 save the series. The original game was an excellent piece of action/suspense entertainment, all 
 be it marred by some performance issues, a lack of variety in the environments and some predictability 
 in the atmospheric sections. How far have Monolith gone in fixing these issues and building on 
 what they did right first time around? Quite far actually...
  
  For the record, I very much enjoyed the first FEAR. The graphics at the time were outstanding, 
 it succeeded where many games had failed, in creating palpable feeling of suspense in an action 
 game, in which the chaos and destruction of the gun fights easily rivalled the best of it's competitors 
 . Some complained that there was not enough variety in the action, which I can see; however it 
 was so much fun that I personally did not mind. What I did find disappointing was that they wasted 
 the opportunity to make the creepy sections so much more atmospheric. It became too obvious early 
 on, that when the weird stuff started happening, you were not going to get involved in a fight 
 and the vast majority of time there was no risk of death. Whilst they remained creepy and quite 
 atmospheric, it lacked the impact they were aiming for.
  
  FEAR 2 goes a long way towards fixing these problems. For anyone not aware of the premise of the 
 FEAR games: You play a member of the First Encounter Assault Recon team, a clandestine unit setup 
 to deal with hostile and unexplained forces. During FEAR 1, a decidedly immoral clinical research 
 company, Armacham Corporation, had a few issues with their latest line in psychically controlled 
 clone soldiers - caused by their psychic commander and the original prototype, a young girl named 
 Alma, deciding to take revenge for the shocking way that they have been treated. 
  
  FEAR 2 picks up about ten minutes before the end of the first game. This time you play Beckett, 
 who is a member of another FEAR team, sent in to locate and detain one of the instigators of Armacham's 
 naughtiness, Genevieve Aristade, whose name was mentioned frequently in the first game. Things 
 quickly go very strange and you are off on your decidedly freaky journey through Armacham's sinister 
 world and the destruction their experiments have wrought on the city.
  
  FEAR 2 is a traditional FPS, with a liberal dose of "bullet time" mechanics. The weaponry on offer 
 ranges from your traditional modern weapons  pistols, frag & incendiary grenades, SMGs, assault 
 rifles, shotguns, sniper rifles and rocket launchers, through to futuristic classics like the laser 
 cannon, hammerhead (a steel pin launching assault rifle that sticks its targets to whatever is 
 behind them) , sticky mines, shock grenades and the pulse gun. The last of these is particularly 
 fun to use, stripping and burning the flesh off everything the relatively slow moving blue fiery 
 bolt passes by. 
  
  As in the first game, the use of "bullet time" is essential to surviving the game. Once again your 
 character is a little bit special, so during the fighting (and its used to good effect during some 
 non combat sections as well) , you can slow down time. This gives you a considerable advantage over 
 your opponents. Bullet time is limited and recharges slowly, so it frequently runs during heavy 
 action sequences . As you play through the game, you can pick up boosters that increase the amount 
 you have to play with. 
  
  The opponents you will take on in the game are a mixture of different soldiers and paranormal creatures, 
 each aligned to one of the two opposed factions. Armacham's "clean up" squads dominate the early 
 game with various types of human soldier, as well as tough light and heavy mechanised combat suits. 
 Later on you will mostly be fighting the clone soldiers under Alma's control. In reality there's 
 not much difference between the two though, essentially Armacham have the mechs, Alma has the stealthy 
 close combat soldiers, civilians that she uses as nodes to control dead soldiers and her malevolent 
 psychic emanations. 
  
  The excellent AI of the first game remains intact  they take cover when under attack, make cover 
 out of the environment when none is obviously nearby, they communicate with each other, attempt 
 to flank you and use grenades to flush you out of hiding.
  
  One of the biggest areas of improvement for FEAR2 is the environment and level design. You start 
 off in familiar territory  an office block followed by some industrial environments, but this 
 quickly gives way to more interesting locations. During the game you will end up fighting your 
 way through devastated streets, underground science labs, subway systems and even a primary school. 
 The levels are generally well thought out and include for more wide open areas than seen in the 
 previous game. There are also a lot of "outside" events taking place during the game, helicopters 
 and planes crashing nearby, buildings collapsing and machinery failing that are all implemented 
 well.
  
  There are also a couple of vehicle based sections; these take the form of using a mounted grenade 
 launcher to defend your squad mates, and getting your hands on one of the heavy mechs. I often 
 dislike vehicle sections in these sorts of games, but I really enjoyed using the mech here. It 
 comes equipped with a meaty pair of mini-guns and two twin rocket launchers. It has infinite ammo, 
 but your destructive power is limited, through heat management of the guns and the time it takes 
 to reload the rockets. The guns are fun to use, the on screen HUD when using the mech looks just 
 fantastic, the sound effects are superb. Whilst in the mech you are pretty much invincible and 
 the segments are pretty easy, but they provide a welcome moment of respite from the oppressive 
 suspense the game builds up.
  
  What is the main selling point of a FEAR game, is pretty obvious from the title  they want to 
 scare the crap out of you. Whilst I found the first one a bit creepy, I genuinely found this one 
 to be exceptionally tense and atmospheric. Whilst it still suffers somewhat from the way in which 
 it flip flops between action and scary sections (rather than mixing them up more) this game is 
 a vast improvement over the first. On many instances I found my heart racing, sitting on the edge 
 of my seat and generally "bricking it". 
  
  You are constantly haunted by ghost like apparitions, weird psychic phenomena, voices on the wind 
 and a myriad of other freakish happenings. Alma is out to get you in this one, so she often will 
 attack you directly, resulting in a quick time event to survive. The ghostly apparitions hurt you 
 if they get close to you  meaning that you actually have a reason to feel tense this time around. 
 What really makes a difference though is the coming together of a combination of technical features; 
 the graphics, sound, level design and game play mechanics all work together to create this oppressive 
 and atmospheric experience.
  
  The graphics are, at the very least, well above average. Character models and the environments 
 are more than adequate but what really stands out are the lighting and special effects, which are 
 exceptional. The lighting and shadows look incredible and are used, as you would expect, to best 
 effect when they are trying to creep you out. Rotating coloured lights, strobes and simple coloured 
 lighting add immensely to the atmosphere. The audio in the game is also excellent, guns sound loud, 
 explosions are powerful, the atmospheric music (or lack of music in many cases) adds tension. On 
 top of that the sound in the slow motion sections seem spot on and the use of surround sound in 
 scaring the crap out of you can never be understated. 
  
  What really stands out for me though, is the special effects. I know this a computer game, it is 
 all computer graphics and therefore "special effects" but what I mean in this case, is the extra 
 stuff they have added, that I've not seen before and really impressed me when I was playing. Frequently 
 you are presented with unusual environments transmitted from Alma's warped mind, her psychic powers 
 play havoc with your electronic equipment, creating artifacting and interference with your vision, 
 and her attacks take on ghostly and insubstantial forms. It is these ghostly apparitions that make 
 for some of the best atmospheric sections. You can tell they are humanoid, but they never take 
 form long enough for you to see any detail, they move rapidly, but without any tangible flow and 
 its hard to tell exactly where they are. They burst out of walls, come at you from all directions, 
 often with very little warning and are always accompanied by ethereal voices in the air. You can 
 disperse them with one shot, but they often still get through to do some damage. It is very hard 
 to explain, so it really has to be seen to understand just how well they've done it. There's a 
 section in the primary school level that really had me on edge  more so than any game or movie 
 has done previously.
  
  So far, it's all been good but there are some failings. Firstly, the collision detection can be 
 a little odd and at one point after an in game cutscene, I found myself on the wrong side of a 
 glass wall. It took me a little while to realise something was wrong  when I walked to the end 
 of a short dark corridor and then fell through the map was what finally made me realise what had 
 happened. What compounded this was, that the game auto saves at regular intervals and it had saved 
 me in this predicament. I was able to get around it, where it had saved me was partially inside 
 the wall so I eventually worked out a way back through  but as it was after a cutscene, where 
 my character was in a location fixed by the game, it seems like a bit of sloppy bug to leave in 
  I certainly hope I was just very unfortunate and that it isn't a common experience for people 
 playing through. 
  
  The game is also a little on the short side, I finished it, playing on the hardest difficulty (which 
 provided a perfect level of difficulty  always challenging but it never felt like wading through 
 treacle) , in around 12 hours. There are various competitive multiplayer options, but in all honesty 
 that isn't what FEAR is known for, it would have been nice to see them spend a bit more time adding 
 length to the game, rather than adding more features to a multiplayer game that most purchasers 
 of the game are unlikely to care about.
  
  The final criticism is levelled against the plot, or rather the way it is told. A few times the 
 "intel" snippets you pick up, are written with "l33t" style writing. They are supposed to be instant 
 messaging logs but it jars to see it here  fortunately it only happens a few times early on, but 
 it's a bit juvenile and doesn't fit in with this game at all. I also imagine that for anyone who 
 has not played the first game, that the plot would be completely mystifying. I actually have played 
 the first game and I still found myself struggling to remember who was who and what had happened 
  a decent recap at the start should have been included really. 
  
  Other than that, I can't think of anything else negative to say about it. FEAR 2 is a thoroughly 
 enjoyable game and a solid improvement on the original, it sets out to provide lots of action and 
 suspense and achieves that in buckets. In my opinion its failings are rather minor and heavily 
 outweighed by everything it has done right. If you enjoy action or suspense horror games, this 
 shouldn't be missed.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: irock174
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 17, 2009 1:57 pm PT
Review:  Pros: fun, gory action sequences, good cliffhanger ending, very bloody
  
  Cons: only a few good scares, slow moving story, unoriginal mechs, too short and easy 
  
  As 
 a fan of the first F. E. A. R., I'm sorry to say that F. E. A. R. 2 doesn't quite live up to its full 
 potential. To me it seemed that Monolith has strayed away from the Japanese horror aspect of the 
 game and went more towards the gory, first person shooter aspect of it. I personally do not like 
 how they changed the level design and added typical FPS features, such as a mech. It made the game 
 less scary and more of a cliched FPS. The story was lacking big time until the end of the game, 
 which clearly hinted for a third installation of the series. I think this is a major con, because 
 the story in the first F. E. A. R. is what made it such a great game. I won't spoil anything, although 
 there isn't a whole lot to spoil. The scare factor was much lower than F. E. A. R. 1, and I often 
 found my self thinking "damn it would have been cool to have Alma pop out right here." There were 
 only one or two parts where I could honestly say I was scared, with a few other creepy parts here 
 and there. I will say, however, that it was very fun to rip people to shreds with the shotgun in 
 slow-mo, as it was in the first game, making the replay value somewhat high. Which brings me to 
 my other point, that the game was a little on the short side and incredibly easy. Even on hard 
 I had no trouble plowing through waves of enemies without much effort. Overall, I enjoyed playing 
 the game, but in a slightly different way than I enjoyed the first one. For other fans of the first 
 game, it is worth owning, just don't get your hopes up too high. Hopefully Monolith will redeem 
 themselves with a better plot and more scares if they decide to make a F. E. A. R. 3 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MuscleCarMan
Rating: 6.5
Date: Feb 16, 2009 7:42 pm PT
Review:  Having a deep seeded love for horror games i thought this game would be worth a look and see what 
 made the first one so damn good in the first place. Having read the review, I figured i should 
 give it a chance. I didn't set my expectations very high and I was still disappointed. Time for 
 the break down.
  
  Pros:
  - Fast paced gameplay
  - Even on hard, you feel invincible and can just plow through wave after wave of enemies
  - some 
 really cool guns to use
  
  Cons:
  - Even on hard. you feel invincible and can just plow through wave after wave of enemies 
  - 
 This game isnt scary at all, especially when you realize that most of the shock moments present 
 no danger to you at all
  - there really is no story 
  -extremely repetitive (shoot military guys, get scared, shoot more military guys)
  
  This game 
 is extremely shallow but serviceable shooter that refuses to take off until the very end, which 
 is disappointing because it had so much potential. If you were a fan of the first FEAR, you owe 
 it to yourself to play it through, just don't expect too much. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: redstorm72
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 16, 2009 4:34 pm PT
Review:  While the original F. E. A. R. was probably not the most amazing shooter ever created I was still 
 a big fan of its intense action and scary atmosphere. It's somewhat of the same story for the sequel, 
 it's not the next Halo or Call of Duty but it is a darn good game. 
  The game starts off with a bang, with the first level ending in the nuclear explosion that ended 
 the first game. From there you will fight your way through tons of intense fire fights and creepy 
 encounters in your quest to defeat Alma. The action is where this game really shines, with every 
 fire fight being an exciting and intense ballet of bullets. One feature that sets the original 
 Fear and Project Origin away from other shooters was the slow mo ability. It may seem kind of gimmicky 
 at first but it really adds a lot of fun and intensity to the game. And by the end of the game 
 you will need slow mo as the enemies get progressively more difficult. The enemies aren't just 
 tough because they get more health either, the enemy AI is actually pretty smart. They will use 
 cover, try to flank and generally stay mobile. They still make some bone headed moves every once 
 and a while but at least they don't just stand around and wait to be shot like in most shooters. 
 Throw in some awesome mech and turret sequences to spice things up and the action never gets boring.
 
  Another thing that really sets the Fear series apart from other FPS games is its creepy atmosphere. 
 Maybe it's because I was expecting it but I found Project Origin to be a little less scary than 
 the original. However it still kept me on my toes and made me jump a few times (especially during 
 the elementary school level) . The creepy atmosphere is enhanced by some very spooky audio. From 
 the sound of Alma giggling in a maniacal way to the howls of creatures and dying people all add 
 to the atmosphere. The graphics are also much improved from the original. They may not be Gears 
 of War level graphics but they are very nice nether the less. It also helps that the environments 
 are much more diverse this time around. You'll explore ruined cities, creepy elementary schools, 
 high tech labs, bloody hospitals and more. There are still a couple too many bland corridors for 
 my taste but it not nearly as bad as the original. Still, I'd be nice to see the next game try 
 a more open and less urban environment (forest, small town, mountain .etc) . One of the let down's 
 this time around for me was the story. There weren't any real surprises and the ending was a total 
 bummer (I won't spoil it for you but it ends in a similar fashion to how the original ended) . All 
 this is toped off by a decent multiplayer mode. Like I said up top, it's not Halo, but it's a fun 
 diversion.
  When you go to buy this game you will be getting a very solid and fun shooter that adds something 
 new (slow mo and horror elements) to set it's self apart from the pack. Just don't expect it to 
 be revolutionary. As long as you keep that in mind you will have a great time with this game. 
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dniq_gamespot
Rating: 5
Date: Feb 16, 2009 10:02 am PT
Review:  FEAR 2 is, basically, slightly improved FEAR 1: graphics are just a tiny bit better, as well as 
 most other things. Gameplay wise it's pretty much the same, with the same sequence of events - 
 you try to find out what's going on, then you try to locate a scientist, then you get really close 
 to Alma. So if you've liked FEAR 1 - you'll probably like FEAR 2. If you've never played FEAR1 
 - you won't loose anything by going straight to FEAR 2.
  
  One thing FEAR was famous for is enemy AI. I was expecting the new game to have even better AI 
 than the first one, but was mostly disappointed. 
  
  Graphically, the 360 version looks quite a bit better, with better framerates and barely noticable 
 jaggies, compared to the PS3 version. The PS3 version, as is true for most of the multiplatform 
 games, is suffering from jaggies and occasional framerate drops : (
  
  The game itself is rather short, and even as short as it is, you spend most of the time unloading 
 clip after clip into a _SINGLE_ guy. It seems that in order to extend the gameplay, the developers 
 simply made the enemy difficult to kill: I'm not kidding - you literally have to unload more than 
 1 clip into a single guy to kill him!
  
  Quite honestly, I was expecting more from this game. And its replay value is close to zero. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FabulousGamer90
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 16, 2009 4:09 am PT
Review:  I remember F. E. A. R. as one of the better games of 2005 on the PC. It mixed intense combat with 
 superb psychological horror, cutting edge graphics and a good (if slightly confusing) story. F. E. A. R. 
 2 mostly lives up to the combat aspect, but unfortunately falls a little short in the other departments.
 
  
  The scary moments this time around feel a little contrived. While the creepy atmosphere is intact, 
 keeping you on the edge all the time through these scenes; the real 'jumpy' scares dont work so 
 well. It can get quite predictable, and it becomes obvious that they ran out of ideas eventually 
 because some horror scenes are very similar to each other and become repetitive, almost recycled. 
 Alma appears more in her naked form than her younger red dress form, which is a shame, because 
 the creepy little girl with long black hair always freaked the hell out of me, and lets be honest, 
 a naked 15 year old is a lot less creepier, despite how much it may tap into some peoples nasty 
 fetishes.
  
  The scares are much more in-your-face this time around too, relying more on creatures and Alma 
 jumping at you, rather than just the psychological aspect. This becomes cliche and drab after a 
 while. The mutated people who crawl up walls and attack you from behind are pretty scary at first, 
 but any fear you had of them quickly dies away once you realize going into slowmo and firing a 
 single shotgun blast is enough to kill one.
  
  The combat is the real star of the show here, as fun as it ever was. There is a great selection 
 of weapons, all the environments are well layed out for firefights, and there are new additions 
 such as kicking over tables to use as cover, and controlling a mech fighter. The slow mo makes 
 a reappearance as mentioned before, but its never really needed much because the game is frankly 
 pretty easy. My personal complaints about the combat would be that the environments arent as destructable 
 as the first game, and melee feels clunky.
  
  I didn't think the story was too good this time around, its not taken to many new levels, and the 
 ending is incredibly weird (and sudden) . None of the characters are interesting at all, (including 
 you) and are always very disposable in the overall plot, yet the game seems to think its going 
 to disturb us somehow when they die.
  
  It should take most people the regular 8 hours to finish on normal difficulty. I recommend a buy, 
 but the first game is undoubtably the better one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jsr184
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 15, 2009 8:15 pm PT
Review:  "F. E. A. R. 2 - Project Origin" is really decent shooter. I could even say it's more classic than 
 other same genre games. It has player's life bar and first aid kits to increase health ( yeah, 
 this time there's no self-regenerating life, at least up to some level ) and classic way of wavy 
 walking. 
  
  Game starts a few moments before first installment ends. We play the character of Michael Becket, 
 the Delta Force operator. He's a regular soldier when the game begins but later some unexpected 
 events take place and he obtains super reflex that is well known from first title. This time it 
 was well explained why game uses SloMo. The story doesn't left much to discover, but the ending 
 leaves a player with more questions than answers and it's quite obvious there's going to be third 
 installment. If you played first F. E. A. R. you know almost everything and even if Becket and his 
 team doesn't seem to know a thing about Alma was, you will probably know it. Anyway, story continues 
 previous one quite well and it's still interesting. Also, finally we can see subtitles, so no piece 
 of story can be lost by mishearing.
  
  Visuals and level design is not very stunning but it's quite solid and makes good atmosphere. The 
 flashlight is dynamic and depends on what's happening on screen. If something scary is about to 
 come up the spotlight will light up only the nearest objects but if we're about to fight then the 
 flashlight emits full power light. Sometimes it feels like there's little of monotony in whole 
 level design. We walk back and forth seeing same scenery and at some point we ask ourselves "I 
 think I was here before, did I get back from where I came?". Also I didn't like how blood looks. 
 It's more like red pudding that good looking "blood-bath".
  
  Physics somehow doesn't seem to be that good as first game shows. If you remember, the bad guys 
 could loose their heads, arms, legs and also could be split in half ( especially with shotgun ) . 
 It looked amazing in SloMo! There are no such effects like flying body parts all over the scene 
 and cutting someone in half. I haven't seen any headshot that caused the enemy lost his head. Again 
 we'll see our old half-invisible "friends", this time they're even faster. I was little disappointed 
 seeing how my shotgun shells didn't affect their bodies movement. Sometimes the character can stuck 
 trying to walk through a door or walk down the stairs but this is really minor thing.
  
  Sound is just good. There's little of music when something dangerous or exciting is going to happen. 
 All the environmental effects are decent but somehow there's little too less stereo channels separation 
 and you can really hear it while playing with headphones. You can't really say if a sound played 
 on your left or right. One more thing I miss from first F. E. A. R. is sound in SloMo and especially 
 brilliant and looong "Sh**!" word that enemies used to say. If all voices in "F. E. A. R. 2" could 
 slow down just a bit more then it would sound way better. Although, I know this is very minor issue.
 
  
  Controls are really good. It's easy to aim and again we have "aim snap" option to turn on. Even 
 beginners should not have much trouble with getting used to control the character.
  
  Game is not very scary. I wouldn't say it's horror. There are just couple of scenes which will 
 get you a goose bump but that's it. Although still it's worth to see all of them. 
  
  Developers tried to make game familiar to fans and they didn't change too much but also they implemented 
 many modern solutions which previous game lacks. I think this is very solid shooter with good plot, 
 less horror. If you liked first game then definitely it's a must to get "F. E. A. R. 2 "! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RicForce
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 19, 2009 5:37 am PT
Review:  F. E. A. R. 2 - if you're reading this, you know what this game is..... a horror sequel that has been 
 a long time in development. I will tell you how wonderful this FPS is and why. A few review sites 
 have given this game high marks, but most have just been mediocre. I think I know how that happened.
 
  
  I'm convinced that many reviews were written while the reviewer was in the midst of playing the 
 game. These people play hundreds of games and write hundreds of reviews. Don't tell me they won't 
 take short cuts. The reviewers that gave this game top scores probably played it to it's conclusion 
 and in return, they were rewarded with the same fulfillment that I was upon finally reaching the 
 credits. You simply cannot judge this game by playing the first couple levels.
  
  F. E. A. R 2 does what is supposed to be done in a First Person Shooter. I. D Software, the inventors 
 of Doom and of the FPS genre, wrote the book for this type of game. If a game maker designs a FPS, 
 they follow the rules. You can't make a chocolate cake if the recipe is wrong. The ingredients 
 for a successful FPS are these:
  
  1. There are pick ups....... health, weapons, ammo, pass keys... etc.
  F. E. A. R 2 implements these 
 "pick ups" in beautiful fashion. The health is in two forms.... quick injections and health packs. 
 Neither are so plentiful that you are always in great health. You have to stretch your health and 
 look for these medical assists. Weapons and ammo are dropped by fallen foes or are located in out-of-the-way 
 corners and so on. Upon discovering any of these things, the gameplay design in F. E. A. R. 2 makes 
 it feel very rewarding, not to mention life saving. Each pick up is lightly highlighted for identification 
 and they look perfect for what they are.
  
  2. No "role-playing" elements need to be in the game. No game altering decisions are to be made 
 by the player. The game makers "script" the game for the most satisfying outcome. Most of the game 
 path should be and should remain linear, all while giving a totally wide open environment immersion 
 to the player. You may have to find your path... but there is always a path to find. F. E. A. R. 2 
 is spot on in both the way the game progresses for the player and in the way your thought process 
 naturally leads you to the next gameplay element.
  
  3.  physics..... more guns.... more shooting.... more 
 explosions.....
  
  You get the idea. FPS need a variety of weapons that sound, shoot, feel and perform in an exciting 
 and authentic fashion. You need to have the ability to carry a few weapons also.... not just one 
 gun that runs out of ammo around every corner. The player needs to be armed to dish out some damage. 
 F. E. A. R. 2 completes this criteria for the FPS recipe.
  
  4. A story. An innovative, immersive and mostly fictional story that holds the players attention. 
 A terrific game story can take a good game and make it a world-class game. In the case of F. E. A. R. 
 2, not only is the story extremely well written..... it captivates the player with a topic that 
 is controversial and largely unknown. Let's add scary. If you would rather fight the Germans, this 
 is probably not the game for you. F. E. A. R. 2 is a story of a destructive paranormal girl named 
 Alma. Her powers reach out far beyond the grave. 
  
  Sounds good to me.
  
  IF YOU ARE PLAYING A GAME that calls itself a FPS, but does not follow this recipe, I would call 
 that game something like an "Action-Adventure". Which is fine, but all of these reviewers that 
 are calling for "innovation" from all of the new First Person Shooters games are not remembering 
 why they exploded onto the video games landscape with such immediate success. 
  BLOOD UPDATE-best use of blood effects in any game, Gears of War included. Without getting to detailed, 
 let me just say that you will actually "chuckle" at some of the fun, over-the-top use of blood 
 damage. There are moments that will surprise you, and times that it will shock you.
  
  F. E. A. R. 2 is a joy to play through..... ALL THE WAY THROUGH. It does every thing right, gets better 
 with every level, and at the end.... you can have your chocolate cake and eat it too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gog8tors
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 15, 2009 2:53 pm PT
Review:  I wanted to start off by saying how much I disagree with a lot of the so called "professional" 
 reviews out there. I really don't think that they even play the whole game. I finished the game 
 yesterday and the 12 hours or so it took me was very enjoyable. I really liked the first game and 
 I have been looking forward to F. E. A. R 2 PO coming out for awhile now. It was definitely worth 
 the wait. F. E. A. R. 2 PO is by far a much better and more rounded game then the first. I don't scare 
 that easily but this game had my heart pounding through out much of the game. The graphics are 
 much improved over the first game as well. One of the things I liked the most about the new game 
 is how they changed up the levels through out the game. I really felt as if I was moving throughout 
 the city trying to track down Alma. The level design is very impressive. The levels in F. E. A. R 
 2 PO are huge! I think thats why you really have that feeling of realism during the game. The weapons 
 have an awesome feel and sound to them too. I cant say enough for how much I enjoyed the game. 
 If you enjoyed the first game then you have to pick this one up. You won't be disappointed. The 
 multiplayer is not the best but still fun. The campaign is where F. E. A. R. 2 PO really shines. Enjoy! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dragon0932
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 15, 2009 5:31 am PT
Review:  FEAR is finally back and I can safely say has retained everything that made the first fear so great 
 yet has expanded in the ways a good shooter should. The story is a little more confusing, but like 
 the first game, a little investigating can change all of that. It starts out with your team attempting 
 to take Genvieve Auristide into protective custody to protect her from ATC who are trying to "cover 
 up" Project Origin. You play as Sergeant Beckett and are the newbie to the squad. I dont want to 
 spoil anything of the story because it heats up pretty quick, so i will continue on. There are 
 way more new and interesting weapons to decimate your enemy's with like flamethrowers and lasers. 
 A new and dramatic change is how the camera shifts and you can see your arms when you do things 
 that makes FEAR 2 a "first person experience" like Mirrors edge. Kick a table over for cover, turn 
 a valve, or slide a key and Beckett will convincingly perform those actions. All your favorite 
 enemy's from the first fear are back, along with some new ones too. Luckily they are just as smart 
 and will openly flank and flush you out of cover with grenades.
  And now what you have been waiting for: is it as scary as the first? the answer is... yes and no. 
 Yes it is scary in the way the first was. The "Alma sightings" as I like to call them are still 
 scary. Yet some of the new things they try to scare you with ( weired creatures that jump on you) 
 just aren't the same. Still they are creepy but just not in that same F. E. A. R. way. Now onto multplayer. 
 Its decent, but defenetly not the best part of the FEAR 2 package. You get points which can be 
 spent to customize three load outs. You can spend the points on grenades, armor, a medpak, and 
 of course guns. The best mode is Armored front which is like a standard point capture mode with 
 the exception of each team getting a hulking EPA power armor! To be honest I think the multiplayer 
 is awesome but I know it wont stand up to the overhyped juggernauts like Halo and COD. Overall Fear 
 2 is a very worthy sequel and should be played by anyone looking for the next great shooter.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: eggywashi04
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 13, 2009 11:36 pm PT
Review:  If you're looking for a Halo Like game with a strong multiplayer they F. E. A. R. 2 is not for you, 
 but if you can be happy with the fact that you get great entertainment from the single player, 
 than this could be your game. The visuals of Project Origin are absolutely phenomenal which combined 
 with the atmosphere of the game and bone chilling music create a very thrilling story and single 
 player game. F. E. A. R. has proven on its second chance to be one of the few games in the next generation 
 of consoles that can be mentioned in comparison with the likes of the legendary Silent Hill and 
 Resident Evil games of old in the type of experience that is provided. While F. E. A. R. is definitely 
 not as scary as a Silent Hill or the original Resident Evil, it definitely brings back the horror 
 genre better than any of the recent games to come out as of late, which for me more than makes 
 up for the games lack of a good multiplayer mode. If the multiplayer mode is really important to 
 you than this game is not for you, but if your a fan of horror survival games of old, this game 
 may be right up your ally, and is definitely worth the price of admission. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hack983
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 12, 2009 9:49 pm PT
Review:  While playing through this game it gave me loads of chills and even quite a few jumps, even if 
 the story was kind of hard to follow. The creepyness of the environment make it hard not to look 
 over your shoulder while playing. The sound blew me away. Loud and explosive. But what actually 
 impressed me was the multiplayer. While I played FEAR's multiplayer with moderate enjoyment, (for 
 the xbox anyway... PC was more fun) I feel like they stepped it up a bit and added some fun carnage. 
 Seeing your name go up in the leaderboards while rifling through games is actually a lot of fun. 
 And just trying to get the next rank for the achievement makes you want to pull your hair out. 
 Blasting someones head off with the 3 shot burst is very fulfilling and seeing someone's body fly 
 from around the corner because of the grenade you threw literally makes you scream, "OH MY GOD 
 PLEASE GET OWNED!" Even with the couple glitches like the red dot not showing up on the assault 
 rifle or you getting tangled, yes tangled, with a teamate, this game is a lot of fun. If only they 
 had polished it a little bit more... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Arashcrysis
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 12, 2009 4:52 pm PT
Review:  
  FEAR 2: Project Origin starts 30 minutes before the nuclear end of the first game. You pick up 
 and play at this point with Becket's Delta Force squad on a mission to arrest the president of 
 Armacham, Genevieve Aristide. The same nuclear bomb from the first game explodes, Aristide slips 
 away, and you get sent to the hospital where you're equipped with the same hyper-reflexive actions 
 as the 'Point Man' from the first game. These hyper reflexes allow you to slow time, dodge bullets, 
 shoot grenades in midair, but also open a paranormal channel between you and Alma. This is where 
 the Japanese-inspired horror elements come in to play as Becket is relentlessly haunted by visions 
 of Alma and her wrath. You may recall a certain terrifying vision from the first game that showed 
 Alma walking on a blood-stained ceiling, as tears of blood dripped down the walls. Prepare to experience 
 even more frightening moments than that in FEAR 2: Project Origin. Fear 2 as a more Creepy and 
 atmospheric then the first game. The Visually out beats the first game. Key to it all is spooky 
 apparition, sometimes girl, sometimes freakish woman, Alma, who is back causing chaos and lots 
 of bloodshed. The story focuses on her incarceration in the Vault, a structure built deep inside 
 the top secret Origin Facility. We won't spoil what is an entertaining and twisting storyline, 
 but it should come as no surprise that Becket suffers from the same visions as Point Man, so expect, 
 well, just about anything really. Played entirely from a first-person perspective, even during 
 cutscenes, and with just the right amount of head bob and movement, you feel incredibly grounded 
 and in the shoes of Becket. A few people will likely find the bob slightly hard to take (motion 
 sickness sufferers are probably out of luck) , but it's brilliantly immersive and one of the reasons 
 why the game's scares work so well. FEAR 2 is more unnerving and unsettling than it is scary, but 
 don't take that as a negative. You're not going to think Alma is hiding under your bed or in your 
 closet, and you won't need someone to do a clean sweep of the house before entering at night, but 
 while you're playing your heart rate will rise and you'll more than likely need to take regular 
 breaks. Chances are your hands will have turned into claws that need prying away from the controller, 
 having been holding on for dear life. From start to finish F. E. A. R. 2 is a finely tuned experience 
 that builds tension when needed, before releasing it all in a series of stunning fire fights. I'm 
 not a violent person and rarely even swear in real life, but (and I doubt this is good for the 
 whole 'games don't make people violent' debate) F. E. A. R. 2 got under my skin. It totally sucked 
 me in, grabbed my nerves and shredded them. After a few hours I was a blithering wreck, cursing 
 every time something moved across my vision. As well as the horror is handled here it's the combat 
 that steals the show, with Monolith giving you the tools to quite spectacularly rip enemies apart. 
 I might be teetering extremely close to hyperbole, but I haven't played an FPS with weapons as 
 satisfying to shoot as those found here. Combat in FEAR 2 feels meaty and downright brutal, downed 
 enemies slump over whatever breaks their fall and the environments are blown to pieces by a stream 
 of bullets. Throw in what is still the best use of slow-motion I've seen in a video game (it's hard 
 to pinpoint why it's so good, but it just feels right) and you'll find yourself replaying sections 
 for the sheer thrill of it. Whether you've got a standard scoped assault rifle, a one-shot kill 
 head-popping sniper rifle, the stupendous Penetrator bolt gun or the flesh frying laser gun, the 
 simple act of shooting is always fun and satisfying. And because of the fear factor, you'll find 
 yourself pummelling enemies with far more bullets than really necessary, just to make sure they 
 don't get up again. Did I say that F. E. A. R. 2 will turn you into a nervous wreck?
  Monolith's original entry in the series impressed in part due to its advanced enemy AI, so similar 
 quality in this area in the sequel shouldn't come as a surprise. Enemies will attempt to take up 
 strong defensive positions in the environment, often tipping over furniture to make better cover, 
 and try to flush you out of hiding with a well placed grenade. There's great enemy variety too, 
 with the expected soldiers being joined by mutated leaping monstrosities (one of the enemies you're 
 guaranteed to waste a load of ammo on) , cloaked ninjas able to kill you in seconds (think the Predator, 
 just more nimble and therefore more able to freak you out) and full-on mechs trying to send you 
 to an early grave - mechs you get to pilot at numerous points in the campaign. After you've settled 
 into F. E. A. R. 2's groove (it does feel somewhat different to the majority of shooters out there) , 
 you'll find you won't want to leave. There's a certain blood-stained beauty in storming into a 
 room, clocking four armed guys, activating slow mo, lobbing in a grenade, taking out three of them 
 with stunning shots to the head from a close range shotgun, and then watching as the last is obliterated 
 by the explosion. It's combat that never gets old and is more or less unrivalled. In full flow 
 F. E. A. R. 2 looks and sounds brilliant too, bettering the original in every way, but it is a step 
 below the very best looking games available. Multiplayer in the original always seemed like a bit 
 of an afterthought, despite Vivendi releasing it for free as a standalone product, and sadly it 
 disappoints in the sequel too. Some effort has definitely been made to give F. E. A. R. 2 fans something 
 to do once the campaign has been clocked, but in a multiplayer competitive environment the combat 
 doesn't really work. It's a shame as there are numerous game types on offer, a good selection of 
 maps and some solid net code, but most FPS fans will soon migrate back to the regulars. If you haven't 
 already cottoned on to what I'm trying to say; I can't recommend Monolith's sequel highly enough. 
 It might not have the jaw-dropping visuals to rival Killzone 2, but it's a hugely satisfying shooter 
 that'll have you clinging onto that controller or mouse throughout its tension-filled campaign. 
 If you like your combat meaty and with a solid dose of supernatural scares, there's every chance 
 this will rank as one of your favourite games of 2009.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: wituckius
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 12, 2009 11:30 am PT
Review:  I played the first FEAR on PC, but I still think FEAR 2 is superior, even though I'm playing it 
 on 360.
  
  Pros:
  
  Graphics are better
  
  It's creepier. I don't know why but creepy little girls are much scarier than the monsters, zombies, 
 whatever in, for example, Doom 3, Dead space, and pretty much any other horror/scary game.
  
  The level design is more interesting and not nearly as dull as the first FEAR.
  
  More 
 entertaining explosions.
  
  I love the excessive gore and blood.
  
  The enemy AI is better than the AI in half life 2, pretty much any of the AI in the Call of Duty 
 games, and many more games. (you'll especially notice how good the AI is by not using the slo mo) .
 
  
  Cons:
  
  I don't like how the enemies highlight while in slo mo, although this could probably be justified 
 by some sort of explanation involving telepathic powers or whatever. This, however, is a very minor 
 complaint.
  
  They should have added another higher difficulty level.
  
  Multiplayer games take too long to start.
  
  I keep hearing about it being grainy, but I really 
 haven't noticed it. Of course, graphics for games don't have to be cutting edge or set new standards 
 for me to enjoy it. I like good graphics, but if it's not up to par with crysis, gears 2, or whatever, 
 it's really not that big of a deal to me. The graphics for FEAR 2 look fantastic to me. I'm satisfied 
 with them.
  
  Overall, this is the best "corridor shooter" I've played, mostly because it's a lot more fun than 
 the others ones I've played. And, really, a game being fun is more important than any of the other 
 elements (Although those other elements can certainly add to how fun a game is -- sometimes) .
 
  
  Overall, I'd give this game a 9/10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fandango_Letho
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 12, 2009 10:58 am PT
Review:  As usual, when I finish a game, I rush up to gamepsot and write down my review, since I beat the 
 game minutes ago.
  
  Gameplay: 
  
  The game's shooting mechanics are great. Most guns are very fun to use and have the right oomph 
 to them mostly due to heavy bullet reactions on the enemy and quick ragdoll death effects. Raining 
 bullets with your SMG on all sides to see bodies flying around in a death ballet is very entertaining. 
 Unfortunatly, while some guns are very fun to use, some of them are a complete joke. Here are some 
 examples:
  
  You'll be given a pistol, wich is a broken semi automatic ; it doesnt shoot as fast as you press 
 the trigger, making it a very useless weapon ( unlike FEAR1, where I used dual pistols most of 
 the time for John Woo fashion ) . The napalm canon isnt only ugly, it shoots a stream of hot steamy 
 urine that shows very unconvincing flame effect. You'll also be given a super-cool plasma canon, 
 wich you'll use against eight dudes and then thats it, you'll never touch it again, wich is a bummer 
 and a raises major questions to the dev team.
  
  FEAR1's guns were horrendeous, yet they had a good punch to them. Like an ugly, yet brilliant guy. 
 FEAR2 made the guns look a lot better, yet in the progression, some of them lost their appeal.
 
  
  Most firefights are great fun, with the exception of sniping moments. Yep, they not only feel like 
 a shooting gallery, but they also dont fit very well in the action and makes everything feels fake. 
 You see, when you see a sniper rifle against a crate right in the middle of no where, it'll mean 
 you'll have to auto-aim pop heads of hidden snipers that will magically appear out of no where 
 in the following moments.
  
  There's loads of ''interactive'' stuff, like seing your own hands to press buttons ( the character 
 doesnt press the actual button, but the wall ) and such, that are not so well animated, wich is 
 odd since the game is from the same developper as Condemned2 and the first person hand gestures 
 and animations were amazing. It isnt to say they're all bad, since some of them are quite cool 
 ( executions on some key characters for instance )
  
  The graphics of the game are quite solid, but on home consoles, the game makes an overused of bloom, 
 blur and grainy effects that ruins some of its graphical appear. Where FEAR1 was clean, yet blocky, 
 FEAR2 is way better looking, yet too grainy and blurry. Some not-so-needed graphical touches makes 
 their appearences, such as a weird blue glowing aura around guys when in Slow-Mo mode. It makes 
 everything feels cartoony unlike FEAR1's spooky and brutal slo-mo effects.
  
  The story of the game is quite bad. Actually, I don't get how people can think it's well writen 
 or anything. It seems to me that the scripters really went out of ideas and tried to justify everything 
 with the first reasons they could find. And really, they don't give you any reason to care about 
 the plot. You just shoot dudes, see a naked girl a couple of times until the end. The game isn't 
 scary at all, because unlike FEAR1 where you tried to figure out what the hell is going on, you 
 know what is Alma and you can guess almost every moment where she'll uselessly pop in in a lame 
 attempt to '' boo '' you. Wich destroys the atmosphere of the game. What works once doesnt always 
 work twice, and I hope people can get that.
  
  The game also ends in a '' second part of the trilogy '' fashion. Remember Resistance 2? Halo2? 
 Yeah? Well it's some laughable crap like that. Overall, you don't feel like you've accomplished 
 something, and yet again the writers of the story forgot to give enough to the audience to justify 
 another game. Its nice to see games having a proper and satisfying ending without having to ''rely 
 on its sequel-or-you're-screwed''.
  
  It makes me wonder why Monolith complained about the development of the two FEAR1 expansions when 
 they can't even deliver. As much as I loved their past games ( Condemned 1 and 2 are one of my 
 favorite series ) , I don't get what went through their mind with this one. To the point that if 
 I was told, hey monolith didnt make FEAR2 but another developer did, I would have believed it.
 
  
  Rent it, you'll beat it under seven hours.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShinwaOkami
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 12, 2009 10:56 am PT
Review:  This is my first review here on Gamespot. I've just finished the game but a few minutes ago. Memories 
 are fresh, that sense of completion still swimming in my geeky veins. Yet I am left with a clouded 
 sense of "What The **** over that ending.
  
  Keep in mind this will contain spoilers.
  
  Graphically, the game was fantastic. I enjoyed the modeling, textures, particle effects and 
 lighting. Definitely a huge improvement over the first game.
  
  Sound was excellent as well. The atmosphere was surely heightened because of it. Alma's shadowed 
 whispers to the cue of the light music of dread and suspense. Very well done.
  
  Spook factor really depends on the person when it comes to gaming, movies, books or anything really. 
 Alma is a character, maybe one of the only characters, that has actually made me jump or let loose 
 a salvo of rounds in her direction hoping against all hopes she won't eat my face or something.
 
  
  This second game really captured more the psychic abilities that Alma possessed and through that 
 they created more of an atmosphere than a total scare factor. There are plenty of jump out at you 
 moments, coming around a corner and such. Also they played more with the shadows of her looming 
 behind you, glass windows breaking as you walked by and her eight year old form standing with her 
 gaze tunneling into your soul. You know, that fun stuff.
  
  One other thing I enjoyed was all the intel left about. It filled out the story so much and answered 
 so many questions I know I personally had at the end of the first game. So Kudos for that one.
 
  
  The only real issue I've had is with the ending of the game. So yes, Spoiler Alert folks!
  
 
  I expected more or less to be dead by the end of this game. It really seemed to be going in that 
 direction. Alas, when you are in the telestethic chamber in the end, as well as in your final battle, 
 she isn't trying to absorb you per-se.... she is raping you while your strapped into the chair.
 
  
  Yes, that's right. Your getting raped. She wants your naughty bits. I thought perhaps it was some 
 messed up battle of wills at first. She does tend to enjoy strangulation of various people. I could 
 of been right.... right? I definitely wasn't expecting to be feeling the swollen womb of my crazy 
 seed in her belly. In this fact, i'm disappointed.
  
  I was hoping for an ending, or at least something epic and spooktacular to maaaaybe leave another 
 sequel open. Not that this didn't leave things open.... it was just terribly disappointing. I was 
 waiting a long time for this game. I'm a huge fan of the horror and survival-horror genre. Looks 
 like this will unfortunately get a sigh, tossed on the shelf and back to waiting for Dawn of War 
 2 and Resident Evil 5. It's worth a play, but don't get your hopes up over the ending. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: limafoxtrot
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 12, 2009 8:24 am PT
Review:  Generally speaking (and I played FEAR 1 only half way) everything here seem like an step up on 
 the original - controls and graphics are more polished and refined. The knock over stuff over cover 
 is fun (stuff like tables and stuff) and somewhat useful at times. Bullet time mode works well 
 enough and adds some extra fun. Story is more engaging so far.
  
  The atmosphere is great - very creepy and a lot of "what the ____ is going on?" moments so far. 
 This I would say is the strength of the game. Otherwise it would be a fairly basic well made shooter. 
 The creepy atmosphere and mystery story is what sets this one apart from the pack. 
  
  You start out on a simple take a scientist into protective custody mission and things go fubar 
 in a hurry - you come to after a man made disaster in a hospital that is creepy as hell and you 
 must find your team as well as what the is going on. Get's interesting when you start find medial 
 notes about yourself!!
  
  It is an enjoyable FPS ride with great atmosphere. Not ground breaking by any stretch but it is 
 a solid shooter with good graphics and a great atmosphere if you are into the creepy/horror style 
 of shooter.
  
  Haven't gotten to try MP yet but it appears to have DM TDM, CTF, Fail Safe, and conquest modes. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Expo_Smacko
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 12, 2009 7:12 am PT
Review:  Well, like I said from the start that I certainly like this game a lot more then the first one. 
 The graphics are amazing with out a doubt, they could have probably been done better but whatever. 
 As the one thing that was my favorite from the first was to slow down time, and shoot, and throw 
 grenades. Anyway, I personally think this one is a little more freaky then the first one was. I 
 don't know if that is just me but that is just how I feel. I don't see why so many people are giving 
 this game a bad review. There really is nothing bad about the game. It's very solid, its very well 
 done. Now, I have not played the multiplayer so I don't know exactly how that is but I will do 
 that another time. If you did play the first I would say go get this game because you will enjoy 
 it.
  
  
  So go for it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GrIMm23
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 11, 2009 6:50 pm PT
Review:  F. E. A. R. was a great game that almost everyone enjoied! Most people praised the Slo mo switch and 
 the amazing physics that it had. Well its back and better then ever! FEAR 2 sticked to the roots 
 of F. E. A. R. when it came to the horror. FEAR 2 takes place just minutes before the ending of F. E. A. R. 
 I dont want to spoil anything but I will tell you that most of the story is very unsespecting. 
 Theres people dying left and right and sometimes if you turn your back you just might see some 
 dark figure staring at you from down the hall! The multiplayer online as been improved and is now... 
 good! F. E. A. R.'s multiplayer was okay but FEAR 2's is amazing. And good news... there is a sniper 
 rifle! I was disappointed when I found out that F. E. A. R. didnt have one but thank God FEAR 2 has 
 one! There is another interesting weapon which I believe is called a laser rifle which is used 
 to cut people in half! Well thats it, if your looking for a scary FPS with good multiplayer FEAR 
 2 is for you! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Drama_313
Rating: 1
Date: Feb 11, 2009 3:10 pm PT
Review:  Put it this way, I'm glad i rented this game because it's no where near being worth $60. The game 
 is your typical B rated shooter in a market full of them. When most people think shooters they 
 think COD, Rainbow Six or Ghost Recon. This game makes you think of crap like Blacksite and Fracture 
 or Turning Point: Fall Of Liberty, even Legendary was better than this. The game is not scary one 
 bit, it's way to linear, repetitive and predictable.
  
  This feels like a last gen game to be honest, it's outdated. The multiplayer feels thrown together, 
 it's like it was added just so they could attempt to sell more copies of the game or just for the 
 sake of having multiplayer, It's terrible, there's no excuse to put out a FPS like this in today's 
 market. If you must play this game and learn the hard way how bad it is then i suggest just renting 
 it, it's better to be out $8 then $60. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
