-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Fable II
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/xbox360/rpg/fable2/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Huge world to explore with tons of awesome details.
 Your pet dog provides a strong emotional link to Albion.
 Laugh-out-loud funny.
 Lots of different quest types.
 Enchanting graphics and moving music.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Making money is way too easy.
 Story and characters lack depth.
 Good and evil paths dont seem well-balanced.
 Lousy map.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Oct 20, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.5
Critic Score: 8.8, 82 Review (s)
User Score: 8.8, 9,317 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Microsoft Game Studios
Developer: Lionhead Studios
Genre: Action Role-Playing
Date: Oct 21, 2008
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
This Fable is light on morals and rich with adventure. "-//W3C//DTD HTML 4.01//EN"  
       Fable II Review for Xbox 360 - GameSpot                                   function do_rbx_ctrk_netxp1 
 (aElem, iTrkId, cTrkPrefix) { var imgElem =               The Video Review               

 Enter the magical world of Albion in this video review for Fable II.       Watch It   Watch HD 520p 
                 The Good            Huge world to explore with tons of awesome details  &nbsp; 
      Your pet dog provides a strong emotional link to Albion  &nbsp;      Laugh-out-loud funny 
  &nbsp;      Lots of different quest types  &nbsp;      Enchanting graphics and moving music.  
               The Bad            Making money is way too easy  &nbsp;      Story and characters 
 lack depth  &nbsp;      Good and evil paths dont seem well-balanced  &nbsp;      Lousy map.   
                    After The Fact:  Reviews Revisited        What's this?               Update: 
  Online Co-op    Posted: Nov 4, 2008 12:21 pm PT      On the day that Fable II arrived in stores, 
 Microsoft released a free update that added online co-op play to the game. Its worth noting, 
 however, that only the player who is hosting the game gets to use their character from the single-player 
 adventure. &nbsp;               

  Albion is a world that's extremely difficult to pull away from once you get tangled up in its charmingly 
 irresistible net. In Fable II's magical land, you'll come across crass gargoyles mocking your foul-smelling 
 breath, nasty trolls erupting from the middle of luscious green pastures, and flirtatious women 
 pleading with the local hero to put a ring on their naked fingers. This is a place that seems to 
 exist whether you're actually playing or not, which makes it all the more compelling when you become 
 one of its virtual citizens. The simple combat and predictable story make the early moments feel 
 slight -- as if the whole adventure will lack the depth needed to truly suck you into its spell. 
 But once your initial doubt fades away, you're left with a meticulously crafted world that demands 
 exploration, makes you laugh out loud, and urges you to experience all the incredible details waiting 
 to be discovered.  

           Isn't that just the most perfect looking family?      

  Fable II starts when you're just a small child. Although your childhood doesn't follow the typical 
 RPG path of burned homes and murdered parents, it encompasses a unique tragedy that provides the 
 backbone for the rest of your adventure. Your path is one of vengeance; you'll spend the journey 
 recruiting fellow heroes as you attempt to destroy the ultimate evil threatening Albion. The story 
 is one of the weakest aspects because it focuses on your choices without creating interesting characters 
 of its own, but it does provide a few powerful scenes. There is one section in which your morality 
 will be put to the test, and the severity of your choices is on full dramatic display. During another 
 scene, you're given a glimpse at the main character's fondest dreams, and the simple yearnings 
 combined with the enchanting visuals leave a lasting impression.  

  The lack of meaningful character interaction and development is the reason the story often falls 
 flat. Key moments are acted out in monologue form, where one character will babble on about your 
 destiny while you silently listen. It's unfortunate that you cannot give your character a voice 
 during the adventure. Your interaction with others is confined to a series of expressions that 
 help you convey your feelings but provide little actual discourse. While it is certainly amusing 
 using these often lewd expressions to get your point across, it decreases your attachment to the 
 rest of the world. It's hard not to laugh when you perform an elaborate hand-puppet display as 
 your wife storms out of your house, but because the citizens of Albion are pretty one dimensional, 
 it's difficult to get really attached to any of them.  

  Human interaction seems to exist solely to provide laughs, though there is one emotional link to 
 Albion that is quite powerful. You have a loyal dog that will follow you everywhere. His main role 
 is that of a furry metal detector, barking excitedly whenever he spots a treasure. His need to 
 alert you of hidden goods before you have a chance to find them for yourself takes away some of 
 the thrill of discovery, but it's hard to be mad at him when he rolls on his back or chases his 
 tail. You can comfort your dog when something scares him, play fetch using a rubber ball, and even 
 teach him tricks from dog-training books. It may not seem like much, but youll definitely miss 
 him and his antics when hes gone. For instance, your dog will sometimes choose a safer way down 
 a cliff rather than jump from a great height into a pool of water; in other cases, when you come 
 across a treasure chest for the first time without your dog happily pointing it out beforehand, 
 you'll feel his absence and anxiously wait for him to join you again.  

           The Russian jig has never looked so creepy.      

  Even though you can't speak, you 
 can choose how to interact with the people of Albion. Just because you're a hero, it doesn't mean 
 you have to act like one. Pillaging towns, buying stores just so you can mark up the prices, and 
 selling innocent people to greedy slavers are memorable diversions on your path toward saving the 
 world. Just like in real life, it's much easier to get noticed if you're being particularly rude 
 rather than behaving like a civilized person. And it's much more rewarding playing the part of 
 uncouth barbarian rather than lovable purveyor of justice. If you do go down the dark path, you'll 
 be laughing the whole time. The morality choices aren't balanced, though. During our experience, 
 we were able to max out our evil and corrupt status after only a few hours, whereas becoming completely 
 good and pure when playing as a noble do-gooder took much longer. Adding more overtly good choices 
 could have made a second play-through completely different. You'll still want to try playing from 
 both perspectives, but you'll run into a lot of the same situations.  

  Aside from randomly terrorizing anyone you encounter, there are actual quests to embark on as well. 
 These will send you all over Albion, through dark caves dotted with phosphorescent mushrooms to 
 foggy swamps teeming with undead creatures. You are often asked to kill a certain group of foul 
 creatures that are making life unpleasant for those not accustomed to coexisting with banshees 
 or trolls. Other times, you'll have to perform a more delicate task that places the moral burden 
 on you. During one early quest, a ghost petitions you to court the woman who broke his heart. You 
 are asked to make her fall in love with you, and after she consents to be your wife, you're supposed 
 to hand her a ghost-written note that lambasts her for her youthful follies -- breaking her heart 
 in the process. Of course, you don't have to follow the orders of a ghost. Moral conundrums like 
 these keep the quests unpredictable. The mission types are plentiful and varied. You'll need only 
 complete a small percentage to compete the game, so there's plenty of reason to return after you 
 finish.     "-//W3C//DTD HTML 4.01//EN"        Fable II 
 Review for Xbox 360 - Page 2 - GameSpot                                   function do_rbx_ctrk_netxp1 
 (aElem, iTrkId, cTrkPrefix) { var imgElem =  if (! imgElem) { return 
 true; } if (! aElem. rbxCPrefixed) { aElem. rbxCPrefixed = true; var destUri =  
 var newUri = cTrkPrefix + destUri; aElem. href = newUri; } return true; } function do_rbx_itrk_netxp1 
 (parentId, iTrkId, iTrkUri) { if (! document. images) { return false; } var imgId = iTrkId; var imgElem 
 =  if (! imgElem) { var parentElem =  
 if (! parentElem) { return false; } var imgElem = document. createElement ('img') ; if (! imgElem) { 
 return false; } imgElem. id = imgId; imgElem. src = iTrkUri; imgElem. alt = ''; imgElem. width = '1'; 
 imgElem. height = '1';  } return true; }   ON   mySimon :  Bikinis 
 are Better in the Summer    //               GAMES:     GameSpot     GameFAQs     MUSIC:     Last. fm 
     MP3. com     MOVIES:     Metacritic     Movietome     TV:     TV. com                    GameSpot. com 
                Search                               BioShock 2 Exclusive First Look:  We head back 
 to Rapture with...               Spore Galactic Adventures Q&amp; A:  Lead Producer Kip...      
          Starcraft II: Wings of Liberty Battle Report:  Its Zerg...               Mafia II 
 Impressions:  The sequel to the cult-classic 2002...                    home        PC      Xbox 
 360      Wii      PS3      PS2      PSP      DS        community      forums      videos      cheats 
      features      downloads      sports      tech      news            Reviews     Previews   
   Cheats     Answers     New Releases     Top Games     All 360 Games     Xbox Compatible     Live 
 Arcade     Tech Center          Theme:   Light    Dark            Sign In    Create your account 
    Help    Forgot Password?                                       Add Game       Tag       Print 
       Email       Facebook       Digg                              Fable II Review          

 This Fable is light on morals and rich with adventure.               The Good            Huge 
 world to explore with tons of awesome details  &nbsp;      Your pet dog provides a strong emotional 
 link to Albion  &nbsp;      Laugh-out-loud funny  &nbsp;      Lots of different quest types  &nbsp; 
      Enchanting graphics and moving music.                The Bad            Making money is way 
 too easy  &nbsp;      Story and characters lack depth  &nbsp;      Good and evil paths dont seem 
 well-balanced  &nbsp;      Lousy map.                      After The Fact:  Reviews Revisited  
       What's this?               Update:  Online Co-op    Posted: Nov 4, 2008 12:21 pm PT      
 On the day that Fable II arrived in stores, Microsoft released a free update that added online 
 co-op play to the game. Its worth noting, however, that only the player who is hosting the 
 game gets to use their character from the single-player adventure. &nbsp;               

   

  There are also job openings scattered throughout the towns in Albion. These range from simple 
 rhythm games, such as chopping wood, to deeds only a willing hero can perform, such as saving a 
 town from ravenous balverines. Odd jobs provide the best source of income during the early goings 
 of your adventure, but before long, you'll discover that the monetary system in Albion doesn't 
 always make sense. If you purchase a store or rent out a home, you will receive money every five 
 minutes. It's wise to invest money in small businesses early, watch your wallet grow while you 
 embark on various quests, and use your newfound wealth to buy even more properties. The problem 
 is that you earn that commission every five minutes, whether you're actually playing or not. If 
 the world of Fable II were persistent, changing during your time away from the game, this would 
 make sense. But in its current form, the only thing that changes between your playtimes is how 
 much money you have, which quickly makes currency meaningless. Since you're able to buy most weapons 
 and properties by just waiting around for a few minutes once you're established, theres little 
 sense of accomplishment in buying the item youve been pining for.  

           Your dog will turn out as evil as you are.      

  The combat is a blast once you learn 
 how to take advantage of your various moves. You have three basic attacks to mess around with: 
 melee, magic, and ranged. Though it is certainly possible to finish the game focusing on just one 
 or two of these techniques, choosing that method will make the combat repetitive and far too simple. 
 The key to getting the most out of combat in Fable II is to utilize all three styles, mixing up 
 your attacks to keep enemies on their toes and, even more importantly, keep fights interesting. 
 Magic will often slow down attackers, shocking them with lightning or freezing them in place. Melee 
 attacks are the most powerful, letting you aggressively take on pursuers before they have a chance 
 to damage you, but you'll put yourself in dangerous situations if you rush right in to every fight. 
 Ranged weapons can take down a foe waiting in ambush or cleave through an enemy who is content 
 to block your melee attacks. And if you knock an enemy on his back, your dog will join in the fight. 
 Mixing up your moves is quite satisfying, letting you plow through enemies in a variety of ways. 
 The more moves you earn, the more engaging the combat gets, which makes it fun to kill more enemies 
 just to see what else you can add to your repertoire.  

  The problem with the combat in Fable II is the lack of an adequate punishment system. When you 
 lose all of your health, the color fades away and you are forced to watch your hero's dying gasps 
 in slow motion. Within five seconds, you'll be back on your feet, fighting the same enemies who 
 seconds earlier seemed to have ended your life. To give you an idea of how insignificant your own 
 death is, your dog won't even notice your pain. The only deterrent that might make you fear death 
 is battle scars you receive every time you fall. These scars are permanent, negatively affecting 
 your attractiveness level for the rest of the game. While this is an interesting concept, the execution 
 is ineffectual. If you play as an evil character, you're going to turn out ugly anyway, so the 
 scars add another layer of scary imagery to your dark persona. A good hero may not want a scarred 
 face, but people will still love you when you perform valiant deeds. Thus, the slap-on-the-wrist 
 punishment system removes the fear of death.  

  The lure of the unknown will draw you through every inch of this well-constructed world. The various 
 treasures scattered around the fields are the most obvious reason to leave the beaten path, but 
 charming visuals provide their own reward. The diversity of the environments makes scouting out 
 every nook and cranny well worth the extra effort. Once you learn how to manually aim your gun, 
 you'll be able to hunt down rude gargoyles that taunt you when you walk beneath them. These tricky 
 creatures can be hard to spot, but they add another dose of humor and reason for exploring this 
 fantastic world. There are a few problems, though, that can make exploration annoying at times. 
 The map is pretty useless, which means you'll have to rely on an optional glowing trail to avoid 
 getting lost. Also, it's not always easy to tell which parts of the environment you can walk up 
 and which require a detour. These are small issues, though. Finding buried treasures and new areas 
 is one of the most rewarding aspects of Fable II.  

           Dying looks pretty cool but won't hurt you much.      

  Albion does look really impressive. 
 The world has a cartoony feel, which gives personality to the characters and environments. The 
 changing weather effects are quite stunning. The noon sun makes way for an unrelenting downpour, 
 soaking you and your poor dog as you search for a snickering gargoyle. Though there are a number 
 of technical problems, such as people walking through each other or the excruciating load times 
 between areas, Albion is such a charming place that you'll want to see every hidden thing. The 
 music also sets the mood of the varied environments quite nicely. The serene strings of the grassy 
 plains clash wonderfully with the eerie howl from the foggy swamps. The voice acting is also well 
 done. Listening to the goofy observations of the citizens, who will happily mock your clothing 
 to your face or shout marriage proposals from across the courtyard, keeps Fable II funny and inviting 
 the whole way through.  

  It's hard not to get sucked into Fable II. The world is so charming and your choices so profound, 
 that it's easy to look past the game's shortcomings. The punishment for death is pointless and 
 the story carries little weight, but the experience is still immensely rewarding. It's easy to 
 lose hours to trivial tasks, and discovering all the secrets tucked away creates a truly memorable 
 adventure. The new ideas presented here may not change the future of gaming, but there are some 
 noteworthy additions that make this feel completely unique. Your emotional attachment to your virtual 
 dog will be real, making you reliant upon his companionship as you trek through these lands. In 
 a game about choices, the wisest one you can make is to play the game. After spending a few hours 
 in Albion, you won't want to do anything else.  

    Editor's Note: Though this review was written after playing a retail copy of Fable II, there 
 was no online co-op support available at the time of writing. Microsoft plans to make this feature 
 available in a free update on the same day that the game arrives in stores.       
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (719 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Jakeamalake
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 16, 2009 10:06 pm PT
Review:  To make this short and sweat... This game is a new and improved original Fable. If you played the 
 first fable and enjoyed it you will definitely not be disappointed with this one. There are tons 
 of new things to do including playing on line with your friends which is a great innovation. Great 
 improvements graphically. Entertaining characters and clothing. However it still lacks some things 
 that the original fable also lacked which includes a map system that is clear and easy to understand. 
 Often times I found myself just guessing where to go to find certain things because there is no 
 world map to reference when traveling from town to town. The town maps are also very plane and 
 have no detail which makes them hard to read sometimes. Also I would have liked the story to be 
 a little more lengthy and in depth. It basicaly starts to build you up the this big climax then 
 blasts you through all the excitement in an instant. I felt disappointed in the ending, not because 
 I think there will be a sequel and im left on the edge of my seat, but because it was flat and 
 i left me feeling very unsatisfied.
  All in all I would still recommend this to any RPG or Fable fans out there. The game is just plain 
 fun to play and its easy to get sucked into all the side quests and extras. The addition of Achievements 
 is a plus too. I spent quite a bit of time trying to make enought money to get the achievement 
 of owning 2.5 mil gold worth of property. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lusitano1318
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 15, 2009 6:59 pm PT
Review:  Fable, wow what a game when it was released. I don't know about everyone else but I feel in love 
 with it. When I heard Fable II was coming out, I knew I had to get an Xbox 360 before its release. 
 And it so happened that Fable II was my first game for the console.
  If you have played the first one, you know what expect, in terms of gameplay, graphics, and how 
 things work generally. 
  You are the last known hero alive as the Hero's Guild is no more. You learn to awaken your powers 
 and your ultimate goal is revenge. In the process you will obtain new magic, weapons, etc. Don't 
 forget your trusty dog, because he will be with you on all your quests. The story is pretty basic, 
 nothing extraordinary or new here and the sidequests are a beat weak as there aren't too many and 
 their difficulty level is pretty low.
  Despite this game having its amazing qualities of outstanding interaction with the world around 
 you, I did find many annoying things with it. Is it just me or is this game extremely easy. I mean, 
 there was no point in the game were I was worried or pushed to the extreme. For starters, you can't 
 die or get game over. When your health bar reaches zero, you just revive but with a scar on your 
 body. I mean, this isn't really a penalty for getting your ass beat by the enemy. Secondly, there 
 is no more MP, meaning you can use your magic as often as you like. Even though it may take you 
 a while to use high level magic with the charge up time, that doesn't cover the fact that you can 
 absolutely abuse the magic. Flourishes this time around can be used at any time, all you need to 
 do is hold down the attack button for a brief second. Also with the ranged weapon you can disarm 
 and decapitate your enemy with a single weak shot. In the first one you needed to gain a combo 
 multiplier before using a flourish and also in order to decapitate the enemy you had to charge 
 up your ranged weapon and aim it at the head. On top of everything, the easily ready flourish can 
 easily kill even the toughest of enemies. Now don't get me started with the enemies. Wow, I was 
 very disappointed with this aspect of the game. All the enemies in the game could easily be killed 
 with a few swings of my sword and on top of that, when there were too many foes on the same screen, 
 the game played so slow, as if it was being raped with lag. Why was this game so easy? Has the 
 new wave of casual gamers affected the producers so much that they have to eliminate all difficulty 
 what so ever? Don't even get me started with the multiplayer. Wow. I mean, the camera angle is 
 so awful that it completely stops me from ever playing with another person. Period. The loading 
 times are kinda bummer too just like in the first one.
  Now don't get me wrong people. Despite the overall easiness of the game, this is still a great 
 experience which I truly loved and admired. I mean, you can be completely rich in this game and 
 purchase every single house in Albion. You can sleep with prostitutes and raise or lower the price 
 of goods sold at your store. Child bearing is now a possibility, even though they don't grow past 
 the toddler years. The amount of things you can do in this game is remarkable and your hero is 
 no where far from great. The world is brilliant and if your not expecting too much of a challenge, 
 you will treasure this game and realize it well deserves the name Fable. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gtsgtsgt
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 15, 2009 12:38 pm PT
Review:  Fable 2 what can I say about it I loved the first Fable when it came out for PC and I played it 
 a lot. It was so open ended, you could do so many experiment to make the game very enjoyable for 
 example you could kill a shop kipper and if you come back a week later and that store would be 
 for sell and the Lady Gress mission was very memorable. Thats why I was so hyped about Fable 2 
 and it was great when I start the game but when I start to mess around the game more I realize 
 how the first game was so much more fun, Now every building in the game is for sell from the beginning 
 except for some that become available after betting the game. And the main story was not that memorable 
 and side missions are same thing, very bland and flat, I think thats what summarize this game its 
 very fun game but after you play for few hour it becomes very boring. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: demonkillerx
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 14, 2009 2:36 pm PT
Review:  Fable 2 is the sequel to the best selling Fable. Fable 2 takes place 500 years after the original 
 game with many additions, Here are the good things and Bad things in Fable 2.
  
  Good - Great story, superb voice acting, the canine companion is a great addition to your journey, 
 one button combat works great, lots of things to do, online is great, very rewarding game, great 
 visuals, great music, a great world to explore.
  
  Bad - I beat the game in less than 4 days, the game was over hyped, the Knothole Island DLC was 
 short ( beat the quests in 3 hours) , killing people at the temple of shadows gives you evil points 
 (meaning killing the worshippers) , the Halo theme weapons look cool but they aren't that great, 
 the needs of one choice at the end of the only gives you 1 million gold.
  
  Overall Fable 2 is a great RPG that will be remembered. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ramdy24
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 12, 2009 2:14 pm PT
Review:  The creators of this game made it very well how the game is like how you can really do whatever 
 you want to do like you can get married, have kids, be different types of a person like friendly 
 mean angry scary, get fat, buy a store and get money by the minute, be good or evil etc, and with 
 the shops if the shopkeeper dislikes you they will put up there prices and if they like you you 
 will get a discount, another cool thing is that shops have sales just like real life I also like 
 they way they have the dog in the game and how it changes to the way your character changes ex. 
 if your evil the dog will be aggressive and vice versa. The online play was an awesome new thing 
 in this how you can play with your friends character and go through quests with him. The only thing 
 i dislike in this game would be the graphics but they are reasonable and it does add to the cartoony 
 look which i think they were looking for. Overall Fable 2 is an awesome sequel. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NBAmaster30
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 11, 2009 11:00 pm PT
Review:  The whole Vision for Fable was the idea of Choosing your own destiny and changing the world based 
 on the actions you have made. The First Fable attempted to do this role, however there were too 
 many broken promising, that ultimately it turned into a standard action RPG based on the Middle 
 ages.. It was very fun, but not the type of game that it was destined to be. However Fable 2 is 
 back, and with more technology, more time, and maybe less promises, makes Fable 2 truly the game 
 you were expecting the first time around. All I can say is how amazingly fun this game is.
  
  Fable 2 is taken place 100 years after the events of Fable 1, and since then the world has 
 gotten bigger, more corrupt, and more adventurous. Fans of the first will notice places like Bowerstone, 
 and Oakvale that were in the original Fable. However both have Drasically changed. Bowerstone has 
 become mega-big spliting up into 3 different distict (main, Old, and Rich) The town has tons of 
 different shops to see and buy from, with varying pricing, depending on how events you have done, 
 or what others have done. On the other Hand Oakvale has turned almost unrecognizable. The whole 
 town as flooded some years ago, destroying all the buildings, shops, and land. Not only that the 
 place has been cursed with the undead walking the area. Its very depressing to see the once little 
 village not only be destroyed in the first game, but no totally abandoned in the 2nd. 
  
  Fable 2 story is about either a little boy or girl who is very poor, however a certain event that 
 happens one day changes the character's life forever. Now the man responsible must pay, on his 
 way he find a much bigger problem and he needs to save the world of Albion from destruction. The 
 story itself is generic to say the least. In fact i actually enjoyed the first Fable's story maybe 
 a tad bit more. I don't want to spoil too much of the story, since that is something each player 
 will have to do later on, however all i can say is that it gets the job done, but don't expect 
 an epic story like the one in Mass Effect or MGS4. But it does its job.
  
  One of Fable 2 biggest plus would be its combat system. If you remember in the old game, you would 
 have to hit L and R to switch between your weapon, then another button to use it.. Same goes with 
 Magic (also having a meter) . This time the game has been streamlined for the better. Now the system 
 is one button controls either Magic, Ranged, or Close Ranged Weapons. its kinda hard to explain 
 but basically it makes switching from one combat system to another much better and easier. Fable 
 1 i would mostly specialize in one way to make the combat a bit more easier on me. This game really 
 should be commended for this innovation, and i see many games in the future emulate this same format, 
 because it works so well.. pulling off an itial magic spell, then switching to your sword, and 
 taking out the bandit running in to attack with your gun feels so great.
  
  The original Fable was very tiny in that each town felt like one tiny tiny village, even the biggest 
 town in the was extremely tiny. Towns have now been expanded a great deal and feature all different 
 qualities that make each one different. Along with buying from these shops, you can also buy ANY 
 shop or house in the entire game.. nothing is not for sale, even a castle. 
  
  One of the best new characters besides you, is your new sidekick, your dog. The whole world of 
 Albion is filled with bland boring cookie cutter characters who have no real personality, however 
 your dog is the most realistic character in any game i have ever played, at least most realistic 
 animal. Your dog can do all sorts of things, he can help you fight in battles, he can help you 
 find treasures, he can help you find buried items, and he can do tricks! or play catch. In the 
 old game (once again) you were always alone in your missions, no 2 player, no campaign, except 
 some expensive hitmen who were not worth it.. Your Dog is always by your side and makes the missions 
 a lot more fun. when your away from your dog, the sense of loneliness, and sadness is very noticeable. 
 Your Dog is the coolest character in game. Hands down, he is better then any kid or wife you have 
 in the game, because he feels like a real dog, down to every detail. I give this game the award 
 for Best Dog of the year! :) 
  
  The Whole idea of owning everything in Albion becomes the bigger goal in the story that will take 
 a lot longer then the fairly short 10-14 hour story mode. Money is a huge deal in Fable 2. Its 
 what gets you all your fame in fortune. No longer are you paid for doing quest, all your money 
 must be earned. Making money can be done in many different ways. 1 is the most obvious choice, 
 get a job boy! some stores have positions open where you can work doing little mini-games to make 
 money. Places like a Blacksmith, a Bartender, Woodcutter, a Assassin, and many others as well. 
 You can rank up each up to 5 times, each time making you better at that certain job. However this 
 is not where the player is going to be making his money. 
  
  That is a whole different area, its the Real estate market. Real estate in Fable 2 is also a very 
 cool and interesting part of the game. once you have enough money from working you can buy a house 
 and rent it out and make a profit. Now depending on how nice you are, how the economy in the town 
 is, and how good the house is will make you more or less money. You can be an evil corrupt ruler 
 who buys everything and jacks the prices up making everyone loose money, making you the "Rockefeller" 
 of their time. You can be nice and lower prices, making you less money, but make the people happy. 
 Since you can buy anything, and since you make money every 10 mins (i think) even when the console 
 is off, you start to see a snowball effect. You start off with a little shop, which turns into 
 you buying the big clothing store, which leads to you buying the Bar, which leads you to buy every 
 piece of land in that area. And then all the other towns, pretty soon you will be able to own everything, 
 buy anything your heart desires, and not even worry about money. Thus becoming absolute ruler of 
 Albion.
  
  Along with the money aspect of the game, the game is also huge on your family. Getting a family 
 not only impacts the player, but has a huge part at the ending of the main story. Like Fable 1 
 you can either marry a man or a women, and live with them. You can also have unprotected or protected 
 sex, and then have kids. Having children also like buying things opens up new quest, that would 
 not be available before. Also having a better house, and more money will also make your family 
 happy. You can also be a cheater having sex with anybody who is up for it, and thus risking the 
 chance of getting caught with another women, and loosing your family, or getting a STD, which you 
 can spread around to other people in your town. Getting an STD won't kill you, but will give you 
 gross marks all over your face/body. Its another cool small detail the game has to offer. 
  
  This game also offers Offline and Online Co-op, however it ultimately falls short of what you 
 expect. The biggest problem is not that it can only be with one other person, is that you can't 
 bring your custom character to there world.. which is very lame. The whole point is to show off 
 your character to others, not play as a default guy.. very lame.. I hope this gets fixed, but not 
 holding breath on it.. overall this would be the biggest disappointment from fable 2 because of 
 that one aspect 
  
  Like previous games the whole Character customization is key making your character unique and different 
 from anybody else. Each character can come in all different sizes, shapes, hair colors, clothing 
 (which is no longer makes a difference in battle, so that eliminates everyone wearing the same 
 armor) Based on the choices you do also changes your characters look. Also what you eat, and what 
 you wear. All clothes (which is surprisingly limited, thank god of DLC) can be altered with different 
 colors. Also the weapons you choose also change how your character personality. So my character 
 will probably not look the same as yours.
  
  Speaking of Weapons, you get a good variety of different types of weapons. You have Ranged weapons, 
 such as Pistols, Crossbows, Shotguns (forget what they call it) Blunderbuss i think.. and rifles. 
 As well as close ranged such as Katanas, Swords, Axes, Hammers, etc.. There is a good amount of 
 selection here and once more depending on your play will change the weapon you play with. Not only 
 that you can also add augments to each weapon, giving it different abilities, further customizing 
 your character.. 
  
  Along with Physical Weapons, Magic is also key.. there are your standard Fire, Electric, Slow Time, 
 etc.. but now you have some unique ones such as Push, Raising the dead, Rage (makes them fight 
 each other) and others. Like i said there is no Magic bar, so experimenting different spell combos 
 is much easier, and fun. You want to be the Fire God, go ahead, Max out your fire power and burn 
 all your enemies who even give you a bad look..
  
  Overall i could keep talking about this game with all the different things you can do and how fun 
 the game is. When talking about RPG's its rather short, but the game is very replayable, giving 
 players incentives to make different choices and have different personalities in your character. 
 Its one of the best Games of 2008 and It finally brings that vision of choose your own adventure 
 idea a little more closer.
  
  Breakdown
  
  Gameplay: The 1 button system makes this game extremely fun, the gameplay would have to be the 
 strongest parts of the game since its so fun to kick some ass! although its very easy, you can 
 do through never dying, and zero boss fights in an RPG is very strange
  
  Graphics: They are very beautiful, now they are not better then some games, but the art and look 
 of the game is very nice The world Lionhead Created is very beautiful, watching the sunset while 
 playing the game is a thing of beauty Sound: There are so many different voice work in this game 
 its amazing, depending on what you do will spawn different dialog for different characters, plus 
 sound effects and Music are awesome. Best song is definitely Temple of Light Aka menu song
  
  Value: With one DLC already Out and more to come (another in May) the game is looking to expand 
 even more. But even without DLC the game is decently long with tons to do.. Sidequest, money missions, 
 multiplayer etc.. well worth the purchase
  
  X-factor: is also the biggest strength of Fable 2, without a doubt there are some flaws in the 
 game, however something about the game make them all go away, maybe its just because the game is 
 fun as hell, and can suck you in and take many hours of your life.. It can't really be explained 
 why, it just is
  
  Overall: Fable 2 is hands down a must buy for all Xbox 360 owners, and people who like RPGs. This 
 is one of my favorite series of all time now, and Fable 2 finally becomes what the first Fable 
 was suppose to be, and that is a very, very good thing 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gearsofwar1999
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 11, 2009 10:31 am PT
Review:  When you first play the game your going to be impressed to see you can be a male or a female in 
 this game and then you start off as a child in the first part making good or bad decisions as you 
 go through. So choose wisely on what type of person you want to be when its good or evil, pure 
 or corrupt, and selfless or selfish, it is entirely up to you at this point.
  
  graphics: When i first fired up this game i looked at the graphics and i thought i was in a colorful 
 world at first. This game offers a deep series of colorfull graphics, very nice looking water effects, 
 and a bunch of other stuff that will stun you later on in the game. 9/10
  
  Sound: This game has very good voice acting and sound effects. but i cant stop right there thats 
 too short so ill talk about the flaw with voice acting. The boys and girls both have the same voice 
 work of being hit and i thought that was a little funny at first. and all the human chars have 
 about 3 pieces of voice work at the very best. but the weapons sound different from one another 
 which is good so that i can auctually judge a gun by its sound not look. 8/10
  
  Gameplay: Its just like anyother one of those combat rpgs but it does something very different 
 from most games. Buying spells and abilities of strength, skill, and will. When the enemies die 
 they drop these things called experience orbs and you can pick them up to buy spells and abilities 
 but one thing that kinda disappointed me a bit was that you cant pick up weapons off of dead people 
 which is what is constantly used in most rpgs. but other then that it may not be different, its 
 still good no matter what. 9/10
  
  Programming: The game does have a couple of glitches and bugs and i have never played a game that 
 doesn't have glitches or bugs in it so this game is forgivable. The most common glitches ive seen 
 would probably have to be the audio files and animation not playing. but thats about it. 7/10
 
  
  Final comments: I found this game very good and i enjoyed playing this and writing this review. 
 Do i reccomend this game to you? Well if your not into rpgs then i don't reccomend this game for 
 you but everyone else I absolutely do and so this game gets a 9.0 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wl11lam360
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 10, 2009 3:10 am PT
Review:  I had seen a lot of videos on the internet of Fable 2. It looked good so I decided to get it. People 
 were comparing it to oblivion so I thought it would be similar to the game I love. No its nothing 
 like it, but not to say its bad. I think the RPG elements are a bit low and all the hype about 
 free roaming has been for nothing as you cant jump and gett up hills so its still mostly on the 
 road. But the story was gripping though it was short and I really think that Fable becoming an 
 action adventure would be quite good, after all it did win a Bafta for action adventure. I loved 
 the story and missed it when I completed it.
  
  In Fable 2 you can raise a family and buy property for your home. The towns are meant to get better 
 or worse depending on how you behave in public. But how many people I kill I havent seen a difference.
 
  Many people say the game is full of glitches and bugs, but I havent encounted any yet. I downloaded 
 knothole island, I expect there to be more extra stuff but they once again have put very few extras 
 in the map. But there is a cool swap-shop place were you can get cool clothes, armour and weapons. 
 But to be honest I wouldnt bother with expansion packs for this game. 
  But dont get me wrong this is really fun. And expect more great stuff from Lionhead studios in 
 future years 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wolfdaughter
Rating: 3
Date: Apr 7, 2009 2:33 am PT
Review:  As far as I'm concerned, Fable 2 is one of the most overhyped letdowns to date.
  
  My mind is so overwhelmed with bewilderment over how poor this game is I'm just going to write 
 it in point form.
  
  SPOILERS MAY BE AHEAD.
  
  - No death or mana makes "survival" in this game a joke. There is no conflict and you can sleepwalk 
 through every battle just spamming spells and button mashing. No challenge whatsoever
  On that note, there is no ammunition or armor. 
  
  - Villagers all look the same depending 
 on which region you visit and have goldfish memories. The "deep interaction" you can have with 
 NPCs is laughable. You can rob/frighten/kill a bunch and have them hate and fear you, but if you 
 stand in town burping farting over and over they will all love you again in 10 seconds flat... despite 
 the fact that you just tormented them.
  I started playing as a good character but found the NPCs so lame and stupid I elected to kill them 
 all.
  The guards are also very easy to kill.
  Everything in the entire game is easy to kill.
  Again... No Challenge whatsoever.
  
  -There 
 are literally 4 types of enemies, most of which are bandits.
  Mashing buttons, killing billions of bandits and running back and forth is the brunt of what one 
 does in Fable 2. That and endlessly gesturing for stupid NPC's who "ooooh and ahhh" as you fart 
 your way into their hearts if you don't kill them all on site.
  
  -There's basically no map.
  
  - All jobs and quests are mindless and repetitive.
  
  - The 
 dog is pathetically useless and has no personality whatsoever.
  
  - For those of us playing female characters, it's impossible to have a character who doesn't look 
 like Shrek unless you keep your character underleveled.
  "Physique" points (strength) makes your female character 9 feet tall and obese with a big, honkin' 
 square jaw. I take no exception to a pleasantly plump character but playing a gigantic, scary she-man 
 with a jaw like hulk... just... sucked.
  
  - Allegations of choices affecting game outcome are an outright lie. Good or evil play affects 
 very little in the game. The so-called "choices" that were supposed to define Fable 2 are null.
 
  
  SPOILER ALERT
  
  The end of the game is one of the worst I've ever seen.
  I killed the end boss in ONE HIT, made my choice, got gently reemed out by one character, got an 
 apathetic farewell from the other characters that I had had all of 2 conversations with and then 
 the game was over leaving me saying "Huh?"
  
  Rent if you must, this game is an overhyped, shiny piece of crap.
  If you want depth in a fantasy 
 style RPG, try Oblivion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sleezinator
Rating: 5
Date: Apr 6, 2009 4:57 pm PT
Review:  I'll make this short. 
  
  You can't ever really die.
  
  All jobs and quests are rather repititious.
  
  No Armor, only clothes. So it's all pointless.
 
  
  Constantly being chased by a dog. No real game function besides digging up treasure, which also 
 seems to be pointless.
  
  Guns fire unlimited amunition.
  
  Exercize doesn't make you lose weight. You have to eat vegetables.
  
  Game play is fun but 
 not repeat fun like original Fable.
  
  Graphics are actually pretty good. Cut scene graphics are outstanding. 
  
  Fact of the matter 
 is I waited for 3 years for this game to come out. Hyped WAY up. I was let down. Quite a bit. This 
 game was hyped up SO much that it seemed to be the game to end all games. But it turned out to 
 be the game that sits in the collection that was quickly replayed. It could have been better if 
 they just hadn't hyped it up quite so much, so it had such high expectations that may have been 
 a little unrealistic and they definitely fell short on. Just an even more "cartoony" version of 
 the original.
  
  I give it 5 out 10. Worth playing but not if you have to pay 59.99.
  
  And rent it before you buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: daxter223
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 6, 2009 11:56 am PT
Review:  Well i should start easy the game has great gameplay ,awesome graphics and a great storyline .You 
 play as one of the four heroes of Albion and you gotta find the other 3 .The great thing is anyone 
 of your actions affects the future of Albion , giving the arrest warrants to the crook as a child 
 makes Albion a bad place to live .Also the way people look at you change you can either be good 
 as a saint or bad as bush .The graphics in the game are more then great they have a good reflection 
 and detail and the monsters arent that bad either .The weapons are easy to get and very strong 
 variying from a tiny meat cleaver to an awesome hammer .The game also contains lots of hidden treasures 
 such as : treasure chests .silver keys ,demon doors and many more .
  This is by far the best game on the market and its a must have in your collection ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SliceSlice
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 5, 2009 9:38 pm PT
Review:  Hey everybody, im doing a review on this cos i like it i guess. Anyways im gunna write it how i 
 usually do
  
  The Good
  1. Good Graphics
  2. Good Story
  3. Awesome looking weapons and abilities
  4. Who doesnt want a dog for a partner?
  5. A lot of 
 sidequests
  6. You can work for Gold
  
  Well i have addressed some of the good things. A lot of the good aspects of this game a lot like 
 the first in the same way that you play from a kid then you sorta have a tragedy like the 1st, 
 then you progress to an adult.
  During gameplay you have your dog that shows you where treasure and dig spots are, the monsters 
 and bandits and such have good looking animations. Oh and i forgot to say how good the side quests 
 are. Most of the side missions have your helping people with various, well stuff, some others need 
 to get rescued from slavers. OH and in Fable 2 you have something else that Fable 1 didn't have, 
 Jobs. In fable 2 you can get Gold by working for it,
  Like being a blacksmith, or bartender. The jobs even have a promotion system so after you work 
 for a while doing the job you can get promoted and earn a load of money from doing it. Well time 
 to address the bad things in Fable 2
  
  
  The Bad
  1. Too short
  2. AI is sometimes a lil stupid
  3. Lags sometimes
  4. Not much to do after you finish it
  
 
  Well most of u who played fable 1 will know that this game is short just like its predecessor. The 
 AI can get a lil whacko on you at sum points but mostly there ok. Sometimes when you play you will 
 get random lag. And well when you finish you will have pretty much nothing to do... well there are 
 other things like becoming a king/queen of a town, starting a family or advancing your character/s. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GrandOfHonor
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 5, 2009 1:13 pm PT
Review:  The original Fable for the X box was no doubt made to be a contestant to the elder scrolls series, 
 fact of the matter is, it did not match up to Morrowind.
  
  Lion head studio's Fable 2 was a definite improvement to the series, and it did a much better job 
 than its predecessor. I think one of the big things that was talked about were the graphics, Lets 
 face it folks, Fable 2 is visually one amazing game. Anybody remember Wind Waker? Fable 2 was pleasing 
 in the same way as that, it's not made to look real, it's made to look original and artistic, and 
 I think it did this quite well.
  
  Another thing about Fable is the way your choices affect the outcome of the game, not only do your 
 choices affect the way people see and think of you, in time they actually affect the way the entire 
 game world is shaped, this has been said before, but I have to expand. if you spend your childhood 
 being a ruffian and causing trouble, the town you grew up in becomes a criminal cesspit where people 
 are lawless, and murder is not illegal. On the other side of this, if your a good, helpful kid, 
 your little town becomes a nice lawful place, free of crime and fear.
  Sure this doesn't seem like too much considering the hype, but this isn't the only big part of 
 changing the future, I don't want to spoil the game, but lets just say the world can look very 
 different in ten years.
  
  Combat in itself is a very interesting part of the game, the actual weaponry is very neat, and 
 quite diverse, but I feel once you get the most powerful gun, there's not much of a challenge, 
 and the game is easily won. In games like Oblivion, there are so many types of weapons that there 
 is no set most powerful one. Collecting items in games is something I enjoy doing, so thats a bit 
 of a minus for me. The magic system is... Different. The way you select the spells is kind of annoying, 
 it feels sort of unresponsive, Fable 1 executed it better for sure.
  
  Online play is a ton of fun, being able to explore Albion with a friend definitely has its ups, 
 but you have to think it would be better if both of you could be the heroes.
  
  The bottom line is Fable 2 has a lot to do, and some very original content, but some limits and 
 drawbacks turn it away from out-doing Oblivion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Master_Chic531
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 5, 2009 11:13 am PT
Review:  Fable 2. What can I say? Well, for one it is a highly addictive game. It has a decent story line 
 and you get to choose your own options for each quest. But is it worth it? The story line is very 
 short, but there are many quests that you can do inbetween each major story quest. And the graphics 
 are great, though the game does tend to freeze a bit.
  
  Also, is you wish to be a female hero... good luck. It is almost impossible to not make her look 
 like a guy, unless you dont put her physique up and when you get to the Shadow Court you give the 
 key to the girl so you can stay young ( (this does, however, make your purity points go down. But 
 not by much, because I gave it to the girl and I still had the halo over my head) )
  
  One thing that I hate is that there is no way for you to restore the Temple of Light. Now shouldnt 
 there be a quest for you to do that? I was disappointed to find out that after you leave the Spire, 
 the Temple was destroyed. And you know how Hammer tells you to do some extra quests before you 
 go to the Spire? Who's gonna listen to her? Everyone is to hyped up to finish the game.
  
  The good points are here though. They have a lot of decent and fun quests. Also, you can marry 
 and have kids (two is the limit I think) . You can also pick between Good, Evil and Neutral. It 
 really depends on how you do the quests, if you wish to be evil you'd pick a certain ending and 
 it will make you corrupt ( (or pure, if you choose the other option) ) . Your characters appearence 
 depends on what you choose. If you want your hero to be good looking then you would want to stick 
 to the pure side ( (you get blue eyes, blonde hair (which if you dont like blonde, you may dye to 
 any color) and a halo. Your skin also tends to be lighter and your more attractive) ) . On the Corrupt 
 side, you look kinda... scary :P. ( (you're skin gets corrupt lines (I dont think they can be seen 
 over the will user lines) and you have red eyes and brown hair (which, as i said, you can dye) . 
 You also get horns on your head) ) .
  Neutral is what you start the game out as. You have dark hair and... green eyes I think. You're 
 faithful little sidekick ( (the dog, which in my opinon is a great sidekick :P) ) also changes with 
 your hero. When you're pure, you get a yellow lab. Corrupt is a chocolate lab with red eyes, and 
 the neutral is an inbetween of yellow and brown.
  
  Overall the game is good. There are a few things here and there that should've been fixed, but 
 I think you would enjoy the game ( (and if anything, you get a decent amount of achievements) )
 
  
  I hope this helped. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Juiced_racer
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 4, 2009 10:46 pm PT
Review:  I really enjoyed this game and it was quite addicting. Although I would not put this as my favorite. 
 It was a little too easy and reminded me too much of the original game except the dog part and 
 where you can either be male or female. Another part of the game I did not really care for, was 
 where your character gains like five pounds after drinking beer or eating some fish. The best part 
 of this game is probably where you can be whoever you want to be. Bad or good and the choices such 
 as picking one of three objects (which I won't describe where you see this) that includes wealth 
 (where you get just about an infinite amount of money) , love (Where you gain your whole family 
 such as your spouse, child and dog) or generosity (Everyone, except your family, is resurrected) . 
 That is probably what I liked best or else it's pretty much the same as the Xbox version. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mattsn22
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 4, 2009 12:31 pm PT
Review:  I never played the first Fable and honestly I didn't care that much about it. However, after some 
 friends told me it's great, I was wondering whether I should give this second installment a chance. 
 To be fair I didn't regret buying it.
  
  Fable 2 takes place in the world of Albion, a countryside enriched with beautiful landscapes and 
 amazing graphics which remind me of a fairytale. You start by choosing a female or male character 
 who is accompanied by it's older sister. Although you begin as a child your choices will have consequences 
 right from the start. Whether you want to be good or evil, it doesn't matter, everything you do 
 will change the future of your environment and even your appearance. Thus you look different everytime 
 you make a decision which depending on your intentions. 
  Basically the story consists of you searching for the murderer of your older sister. How you reach 
 your goal is up to you. Take the evil or the good way. But rest assured you have a dog that goes 
 along with you. Anyways, this is a very brief summary of what is your primary task. Besides there 
 are still lots of quests to do and mysteries to unveil as well as certain jobs to earn money. In 
 addition to that you may buy shops which provide you with money even if you turn off the console (a 
 feature you may know from The World Ends With You or Animal Crossing) . The quests add some variety 
 into the main plot such as rescuing some people or posing for an sculptor. The main story itself 
 is done fairly quick with about 12-15 hours of gameplay.
  
  Visually Fable 2 looks really great. Everything will remind you of a fairytale. Lionhead has put 
 lots of detail into the towns, countrysides and forests. The graphics are sharp and smooth in movement. 
 However, I recognized some occasional slowdowns in combat when just too much was going on. What 
 Lionhead has created is a very charming style which keeps your eyes glued to the screen. Unfortunately 
 you will see some repeating people and monster models.
  
  The sound is great, too. Anyhow, the voice of your sister wasn't really well done though there 
 are still many dialogues which are pretty funny. Your character remains silent and communicating 
 with other characters is done with gestures.
  
  The combat system is very simple which can be considered good or bad. But using a button for melee 
 attacks, one for magic etc. makes it easy to learn for everyone. You may choose between a variety 
 of very nice looking weapons like axes and swords. The experience points you gained in battle help 
 you evolving your spells and growing stronger. However, executing an impressive looking spell just 
 requires pressing one button. If you get killed in a fight, you will just go on as your lifebar 
 fills up and you get a scar in your face which makes you look slightly more evil. Not really getting 
 killed makes this easy game even more easy because boss fights aren't necessarily difficult, too.
 
  
  After beating the final boss, which was a cakewalk, there was still something to do. I completed 
 several sidequests and earned some money from new employers. Though it is definetly shorter than 
 the average RPG it offers lots of funny moments and a good amount of quests. Furthermore you may 
 form relationships and play a few minigames.
  
  While not very story driven Fable 2 offers high replay value in the way you might play through 
 the game multiple times in different ways. So you may start a new character and make totally different 
 choices. This can be a nice feature if you like such games as it delivers a very low learning curve 
 and funny characters you get to know as proceed within the game. Some might say it's still disappointing 
 but I managed to have lots of fun and recommend it to gamers who like easy games which are easy 
 to get into and have great visuals and funny dialogues. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Buzzcrow
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 3, 2009 2:59 pm PT
Review:  Fable 2, the game we've all been waiting for. I have bought it some time ago now but haven't reviewed 
 it yet, maybe it's because i've been too busy playing it!
  
  Firstly, and very bestly, it really pulls you in and makes you feel as if you're in the 18th century. 
 It is so beautiful and so realistic (regarding the tattered spire, will magic, bandits and all 
 that malarchy) , you just can't help spending more time looking around the towns at people doing 
 their everyday jobs than actually killing stuff. It is that amazing!!!
  
  The new features. They make such a difference to the fable world of Albion. You can be a business 
 tycoon and buy every house, everywhere! You can take jobs if you're a little short on cash. And 
 who could forget the oh so hilarious Scottish Gargoyles! "Yer aim is as bad as yer body odour! 
 What ye gonee do 'eh? Shoot me? Oooh! Uuuh! I'm shiverin'!". The best though, and the one that 
 makes the most impact, is you're lovable dog that you meet from childhood. He is so cute, you can 
 teach him tricks and he will find treasure and fight for you. 
  
  There are an Unbelievable amount of Unlockables! Killing all of the gargoyles will get you a special 
 treasure, getting all the silver keys will get you vast rewards etc. And of course the Demon Doors! 
 The nine demon doors have special, secret areas with a unique weapon in each, solve their riddles 
 and you may pass. *SPOILER* my favourite is a christmassy scene, with one of those lovely log cabins 
 at the end, and as soon as you step in... BANG! Skeletons all over the room, blood on the walls 
 and the house is all grubby and worn away. Scary as hell the first time I saw it!!!
  
  But with great features, there is a consequence (sound familiar?) . The terrible story line. It 
 starts well, but then it just crashes like an aeroplane. It is all about a young boy/girl (depends 
 which one you pick) and their sister living in the streets, down on their luck, until a travelling 
 trader comes into town with a magic box. it costs five gold coins, and so to get the coins you 
 must earn the by doing certain erans. But, the choices you make doing them, can affect the future 
 of the town. And it carries on from there, sounds good right? WRONG. Later on you ust find the 
 heroes of strength, skill and will and bring the together to defeat Lucien. There isn't even a 
 final boss battle!
  
  There is much more to it, but i'd rather you find out for yourselves. Overall, it a fantastic game 
 with astonishing graphics and soundtrack. I would recommend this to all Fable fans, RPGers and 
 everyone who wants a game that's funny! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shadowscale18
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 3, 2009 7:22 am PT
Review:  Peter Molyneux is insane. The man behind the Fable franchise should be locked away in a nut house 
 and have the key thrown away. His latest game he worked on was Fable 2, and, proving his growing 
 insanity, good ol' Molyneux tried to pack it with every ounce of content he could shoehorn onto 
 the disc. While it certainly does a lot of things right, this fable also has a load of errors, 
 mistakes, and just plain baffling features. But, once you begin playing, you'll find the world 
 of Albion a charming place that you'll never want to leave.
  
  The original Fable's story saw a hero rise to kill an evil overlord. Cliche? Yes, but the story 
 was serviceable. The second game's story is a little better, though just as cliche. Taking place 
 500 years after the original, you play as one of the last descendants of the Hero bloodline, and 
 must take revenge on an evil overlord who has killed your sister, along the way unlocking secrets 
 about your self. Sounds interesting, and for the most part the story does it's job of stringing 
 the game together. Sharp cutscenes and sequences make the player know what's going on, and informative 
 quests allow you to grasp what is happening in the game at all times. The characters you meet are 
 all masterfully done, from the solitary Garth to the linguially-challenged photographer/investor 
 (how I hate him) you meet through the game.
  
  If you played Fable 1, then the gameplay should seem familiar. You play a third person perspective 
 in the game, running around slaughtering all manner of things with swords, maces, axes, cleavers, 
 etc. You can also use crossbows or rifles, (new to the Fable universe, and I must say - blasting 
 a Hobbe with a shotgun is great fun) , or will abilities. The game simplifies combat a bit, turning 
 it into one button fighting, but makes the system easier to use, and thereby more fun in the long 
 run. Combat is definantly improved, as you can hack through a group of enemies by pressing the 
 X button, and that annoying target indicator from Fable 1 is out. The ranged combat is as satisfying 
 as ever, adding several gruesome animations for certain shot types, (shooting a man in the head 
 rewards you with it flying off and a geyser of blood erupting from his neck.) , and the will combat 
 has been streamlined, and is certainly different. In the first game you had a mana bar, but in 
 this game you do not. This is one of the reasons Molyneux is insane... you don't have a limit to 
 the spells you can cast. This means you can sit there and spam Inferno all day until something 
 dies. The first of many reasons the game is too easy.
  
  The first game had a fair share of magic spells, but this game has only about six or seven. However, 
 each spell has a charge meter, allowing you to take time to charge it and do more damage. Good 
 thing little things like taking damage don't disrupt the meter, right? Otherwise the game would 
 be too hard. That being said, Fable 2 is easy. With bosses able to be killed in one hit, monster 
 swarms not posing a threat, and having a dog find every bit of treasure in the game for you, you 
 won't have a hard time playing it. But the exploration is excellant, and the world is so compelling 
 and intricate you'll lose yourself for hours just exploring lands, finding treasure, killing bandits, 
 looting caves, and killing more bandits. There are lots of bandits. Another reason the game is 
 so compelling is the addition of your dog friend.
  
  The game gives you a dog once you begin your adventure, and while this may seem weird at first, 
 he provides a strong emotional link to Albion, and becomes a true friend over the course of the 
 game. He'll sniff out treasure for you, run along side you, wag his tail when you're standing still, 
 growl at enemies, jump over ledges with you, he does it all. All the while you grow attached to 
 the little mutt, and by the end of the game (by the way, the game progresses itself by 20 years 
 on it's own, not counting the time passing while you play. That dog would be dead long ago) , you'll 
 find he's the one character you can really relate to in the world.
  
  Elements like these give the game a meaty filling that pads it with love, but there are elements 
 that don't make sense at all, or are just plain awful. For instance, you cannot die in this game. 
 While you can be knocked over and have your health depleated, you just wake up a second later with 
 full health. Your penalty for being butchered? You lost a small amount of experience (not enough 
 to matter) and you gain a scar. A freaking scar. Molyneux must be quite the narcissicist if he 
 views having a scar a worse penalty than death. Not being able to die makes the game easy. Another 
 weird feature? Lack of demon doors. In the first game there were 16 or so - maybe more. And they 
 housed some of the best treasure in the game, everything from Wellow's Pickhammer (awesome weapon 
 for beginners) to other legendary items. Fable 2 has eight measely demon doors, and while they 
 each house treasure, it's all nearly useless. One door had a damn health potion in it... another 
 had a set of trader clothes or something. I demand a legendary weapon, damn it. Also, legendary 
 weapons are absent, for the most part. There are around five, but they do less damage than Master 
 weapons with a few augments. It's all like I said before - Molyneux is insane.
  
  Another reason the game is so easy? Making money ridiculously quick and easily done. When you own 
 a property in the game, you collect rent every five minutes of real time. If you own every property 
 in the game (like I do) and jack up the rent prices, you'll end up making like thirty thousand 
 every five minutes... even when the 360 is turned off. Sounds easy? By the end of my game I had 
 several million (freaking million!) gold to spare. All these reasons make Fable 2 one of the easiest 
 games around, and while you'll have fun, it won't be a chore to play. Casual players will love 
 it, but players looking for a challenge will be let down, as the campaign is around 16-20 hours 
 with all the quests finished.
  
  The graphics in Fable 2 are a mixture of outstanding and good. The character models are well done, 
 but aren't as sharp as they should be. But, good features like flowing hair, lip syncing, and the 
 right amount of body movement make them feel alive. However, in some cutscenes, they end up looking 
 mechanical and too scripted. Albion, however, is beautiful, with colorful fields, rain-soaked swamps, 
 moist caves and misty mountians. The graphics here are incredible, and really show some flair. 
 Bower Lake is particularly beautiful, with lovely flower beds snaking around flowing rivers, and 
 colorful wildflower-covered fields waiting to be explored.
  
  The sound in Fable 2 really is amazing. The voice acting is incredible, with an great cast of British 
 actors filling a variety of rolls. One spectacular voice is the voice of Reaver, the pompous Hero 
 of Skill you meet at the end of the game. Like in the first game, the protagonist is silent, with 
 the exception of a few grunts, single word responses, laughs, and remarks at certain things. Alongside 
 great casting is great music, with amazing scores and masterpieces that go along with every bit 
 of action in the game. The game has great music and sound, and this is easily one of it's highest 
 selling points.
  
  Fable 2 is a mixed bag. It's a great RPG filled with awesome graphics, awesome sound and good characters 
 and gameplay, but it's difficulty might turn off more hardcore players, and the lack of features 
 might make some turn their heads. Regardless of what you're expecting, this fable is ripe with 
 heart, and will make you want to come back to Albion again and again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eajack
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 31, 2009 7:42 am PT
Review:  The first Fable was a good game, but I felt its biggest downfall was how small it felt when it 
 was supposed to be this grand, lifelong epic. Fable II feels like a larger game, but still doesn't 
 quite capture the lifelong epic scale it is supposed to portray. However, clever game design, humor, 
 and other bits make this a great game worth playing.
  
  Fable II's main quest line is fairly typical for the genre. You are wronged as a child and spend 
 the rest of the game either seeking revenge or trying to save the world. Or perhaps a little of 
 both. There are several side quests available which allow you to build up your experience and gain 
 some renown and a few items. Whether you choose to be good or evil, or even a middle of the road 
 gray, you'll find the people react to you differently, and the outcome of the quests, and even 
 the world changes based on your choices.
  
  Each area you visit is larger than the preceding game's areas, but you will be visiting them many 
 times over the course of the game. Enemies are always in the same places, and even though some 
 areas evolve with the passage of in-game time, there is a lot of repetitiveness here. The distances 
 between locations in the game are vast, but the only depiction of this scale is a bit of text at 
 the bottom of the screen that announces how many miles you will be travelling, and how many hours 
 it will take. This is supposed to help give a grand scale to the game, but honestly a cutscene 
 of a multi-day trek, or even an animated dotted path on a map of the world would have helped to 
 increase the scale of the world. Looking at my stats, I was shocked to find that I had travelled 
 10's of thousands of miles, but it only felt like a week had passed as I puttered around a confined 
 area.
  
  There is a lot of great dialog in the game. Unfortunately, your character will never speak. You 
 are limited to a selection of emotes, which seems to make your character feel a little bit shallow. 
 The townsfolk are generally quite interesting, and it's fairly common to hear them say something 
 that will make you chuckle out loud. Your dog companion is probably one of the best sidekicks in 
 any game made. He acts like a dog in every way, and is invaluable for finding hidden treasures 
 and even lending a hand, or tooth, in battle.
  
  The combat system is intuitive and simple, yet capable of complex attacks. Melee strikes, blocks, 
 and flourishes are all accomplished with a single button. Each spell has an area effect or can 
 be focused on a single target. And your ranged weapon can be aimed for fine-tuned damage or even 
 disarming your foes. The game tends to be a bit on the easy side, particularly since you can't 
 die. The worst that can happen to you is you get knocked down, loosing any experience you've yet 
 to claim in that battle, and gain a scar before heroically leaping up at full health once more.
 
  
  Fable II is all about choices. Good and evil, right and wrong. And it takes great pains to show 
 how those choices effect the world around you. Fail to turn in wanted posters for criminals as 
 a child, and you'll grow up to find the town a run-down slum with prostitutes on the corners and 
 not a lawman in sight. Speaking of which, as cute and charming as the world of Albion looks, it 
 is not a game for children to play. With prostitution, violence, alcohol, adultery, gambling and 
 other vices at every turn, the subject matter of Fable II is mature to say the least.
  
  Knothole Island is a downloadable add-on which can be played at any time, whether you have finished 
 the main quest or have just started the game. It adds a new quest line, three new dungeon areas, 
 a ton of items, and 100 more gamerscore. However, it seems the developers had complaints about 
 some of the irreversible consequences you could run into in the main game, and have included ways 
 to reverse several of those with items in the expansion. But overall, I feel that the Knothole 
 Island add-on is worth it.
  
  Overall, I enjoyed Fable II a great deal, but feel there is still room for improvement. Hopefully 
 Fable III will finally make the game feel epic in size and scope, allow your character to actually 
 have a personality (and the ability to speak) , and do away with some of the niggling issues I felt 
 took away from the game. With those improvements, I feel Fable II could have earned another 1-1.5 
 points on my score. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mmburke4
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 31, 2009 7:04 am PT
Review:  A quality game that gives good variety throughout. The story is interesting and does allow from 
 some flexibility with character development. The good/evil path is interesting, though I still 
 find it hard to be evil given the actions required. The improvements over the first game are noticeable 
 and appreciated. Camera improvements are something that I struggled with the first game and have 
 been fixed. I'm glad to see DLC coming out for this one, as there are many areas of the world that 
 could be fleshed out. The achievements are nice, though not really paced out initially as they 
 come in floods during the first few hours of the game; they do require a second playthrough at 
 least to get them all, which isn't a bad thing in this game's case. As with many RPGs, money is 
 always an issue and it is a bit of a pain in the first hours of this game as well. The fact that 
 you can purchase shops and houses is cool as I found myself trying to earn money just so I could 
 own entire towns. Overall, worth the money and time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IBLEEDBLUE33
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 30, 2009 1:35 pm PT
Review:  There were a lot of complaints with the original Fable because of its length. I for one didn't 
 mind it and got 20 plus hours out of the game because of all the extra stuff you could do. The 
 game was so original I was willing to overlook the fact that the main story line lasted only 5 
 to 6 hours. Well I can forgive this once but not twice. Fable 2 in my opinion could be a 10 if 
 the main story had enough substance. Again the stroy can be finished quickly but this time I did 
 not feel nearly satisfied. The ending is quite a letdown. Also a lot of the story is ripped straight 
 from the first Fable. The innovation is far superior in the original. But other than the story 
 the rest of the game is fantastic.
  
  Lets start with the improved combat. The swordplay remains largely the same but now using your 
 crossbows and the new guns are just as simple. Also you can use 5 different magic spells mapped 
 to the b button. This makes fighting with melee, ranged, and magic very easy and fun. The world 
 of Albion is also bigger and more lush than the original. The areas are vast and open with multiple 
 paths your hero can take. There is so much you can do in this game that about anyone can have fun. 
 Want to be the next Donald? Well you can buy, sell, rent every piece of property in the game. Want 
 to work for a living? There are numerous jobs around Albion to earn extra cash. Want to be an outlaw? 
 You can steal, kill, pillage every town if you want. I hope the majority sticks with the other 
 things. There are also tons of side missions, demon doors, silver keys, gargoyles, etc. to be found 
 within Albion. You can truly spend hours in this game and never do one main mission. This is in 
 my opinion the best way to play Fable.
  
  Then you have online play where you can invite a friend to be a guest in your world or vice versa. 
 The invited player can earn cash and experience. You can also earn achievements coop or if you 
 see the main character you are playing with get them. The camera becomes a problem in coop and 
 it is more novelty than anything but at least it is in there.
  
  Overall if you are the kind of gamer who likes to bolt through games then I recommend you rent 
 Fable. But those of you who enjoy stopping to smell the flowers then you will be then you will 
 be lost inside the world of Albion for quite some time. Hopefully Fable 3 will give gamers a 20 
 plus hour main story to go along side the excellent world around it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ravenswan32
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 29, 2009 12:51 pm PT
Review:  Personally, I thought that the most enjoyable part in this game surely was the little music that 
 made company to the opening scene, with the little sparrow and the city in its prosperity (or not) . 
 
  Then, the cartoon graphics came flying out, burning our sensitive elf/Japanese-accustomed eyes. 
 
  Fable II has the ability to make us feel simply cosy... because it is, indeed, a cosy game, with 
 its cosy characters, cosy graphics and cosy music. Mostly of the gamers will find curious how these 
 characters actually have HUMAN feelings (like the frustration of being cheated by the husband, 
 or the terror of seeing you unsheathe your blade) . 
  Unfortunately, these human feelings come hand in hand with, in my sincerest opinion, terrible voice 
 acting.
  Prepare your fingers, because this is a button-smashing game. Be quick enough defeating all the 
 enemies on the area, suck in all your experience orbs, spend them in various combat abilities and 
 you're prepared to move on, following the yellow trail that guides you on your quests. 
  Honestly, I think that Fable II lacks story, it really does. Although it's a great sequel to its 
 ancestor, connecting all events from the first game to this second, there's a weird emptiness in 
 it (or is it the fact that the plot is majorly cliched?) , that doesn't add any kind of suspense, 
 or the feeling that sometimes we, gamers, have: OH MY LORD, THAT BOSS, AND THIS BOSS MUSIC, AND 
 THESE MONSTERS ULTRA COOL, OH MY GOD WHAT'S GOING TO HAPPEN NOW TO MY HERO, OH NOOOO.
  ... this doesn't happen in Fable II. You are never amazed, you're just having plain fun, buying 
 a good house, teleporting to another part of the world, button-smashing and absorbing orbs. You 
 are never rewarded with the wow-feeling. Never. 
  I had a lot of fun playing Fable II. It's a fun, comic game, that shows us that in video-games 
 characters don't always have to be honored and have noble feelings. They can be... plain fun. 
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: flytnrs
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 27, 2009 5:09 pm PT
Review:  Having a more involved game than the lost chapter, I was excited to play. The graphics are decent. 
 I enjoyed the ability to travel across fields, etc. I enjoyed the interactions with people, houses, 
 etc. Most of the quests are enjoyable. I am however very, very frustrated with the game and how 
 my XBOX 360 frequently freezes; I don't know if its the game is too much for my system or my system 
 is too old... Also I have experienced a few glitches that frustrate me. For example, I am unable 
 to finish the Love Hurts quest because the gravekeeper is floating is in the air behind the cemetery 
 mansion. I can't give him lady grey's head; and because I can't give him the head, I can't get 
 the last gargoyle or the last silver key, so I can't complete those two 360 achievements. It's 
 too bad that a few problems make the game less enjoyable. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Polkanator
Rating: 4
Date: Mar 26, 2009 9:19 am PT
Review:  The money never stopped coming in, there were powerful weapons available, the game slowed down 
 during the battles or in the towns, the villagers would block you and you couldn't push them away. 
 The worlds, though bigger, didn't have much to do from A --  B. 
  
  After a while, I realized I just stopped caring about this game and got rid of it 2/3 of the way 
 through. I just couldn't muster up any interest in the character I had or the world I was trying 
 to save. 
  
  Graphically, this felt like I was playing Fable 1. The characters didn't have any detail to them, 
 and my own character was lifeless (dancing and farting do not make a character you can fall in 
 love with) . 
  
  Gambling has always been a bore in games (like Final Fantasy, Mass Effect) and in a game where 
 you don't even need it, there's no true risk, is there?
  
  And why on Earth, is there a situation in a game where I can save a guards life from bandits, ninjas, 
 and werewolves, and he's angry just because I used my weapon? That's just bad A. I. programming.
 
  
  Such an incredible disappointment. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Human-Alliance
Rating: 1
Date: Mar 25, 2009 8:46 am PT
Review:  Fable II is one of the worst games I have played on xbox 360, it was nothing like they said it 
 would be, it is not very replyable, and it crashs at save times which can mess up your save and 
 lose your character forever, one of these crashes happens in the main story and it happened to 
 8/10 players which says.... THIS GAME WAS RUSHED! This game should have been realeased last month 
 not Oct, because it was not ready, some say developers all do this now... but they don't I've played 
 Halo III, Halo wars, GRAW 1&2, Two worlds (That did not have over 2 bugs, it was rushed and still 
 had only 1! it was only 1 for an achivement!)
  
  Dead space, LOTR conquest, LOTR BFME, C&C, and none where as bugged as this!
  
  Oblivion which 
 has a lot of content, only had a few bugs, but it was much larger than Fable II and was not as 
 bugged as it, however that was the only good game they have ever done, and fallout 3 sucked like 
 this.
  
  Now that I spoken about the bugs, it's time to tell what else I hate about this game.
  
  
 
  The story
  
  It sucked and the ending was bad that sucked hard, It took me 2 hours to get over that bad ending.
 
  
  The choices
  
  Only children would make these choices, BE GOOD OR BE REALLY GOOD! OR... BE OK!
  If you wanted 
 to kill Theresa you could not, because your not bad, you could not kill people in the story like 
 you could in TLC, play through the game and you'll see how it seems your character is no matter 
 what you do, you can't even look evil!
  
  Combat
  
  Badder than Fable1.
  
  
  
  
  -0/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Armie_101
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 25, 2009 6:45 am PT
Review:  This game has a lot to offer to the player. Almost anything is possible and changeable to your 
 liking. Only thing that bothered me personally was the Story. It is original but having only up 
 to 8 hours of beating it isn't enough for a game of this magnitude. Another thing that disappointed 
 me was the choice of items when it came to clothing. All the towns carried the same thing and there 
 was not much variety. I really enjoyed it overall and hope the world in Fable 3 improves in size 
 and everything else it can possibly improve on. The idea of the dog works really well in the game 
 and makes it stand out from other games.
  
  What I would enjoy to see in the next Fable would be a much longer story line roughly 15 hours 
 at least, bigger environment, much more items that can be available and hidden treasures, new abilities 
 and weapons and of course new little things such as the expressions and side quests. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kholdstare61
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 24, 2009 9:58 pm PT
Review:  Fable II Review (3/24/09)
  
  Pros:
  
  Great Value- There's lots to do in Albion. You can explore the world, do numerous different quests, 
 start families, buy businesses, work as a blacksmith, sacrifice people to the Temple of Shadows, 
 learn new skills and spells, gamble money, etc. Not a game you can fully beat in 2-3 days.
  
  Combat- Melee fighting, shooting, and spell casting is combined seamlessly with the face buttons 
 of the 360 controller. All three types of combat are important and reach a good balance. Fast and 
 fluid action.
  
  The Dog- Your best friend in the game, and the character you'll come to care most about. Will be 
 there with you through thick and thin to help you out.
  
  Sucks You In- Easy to pick up and learn, but hard to put down once you do. Can be surprisingly 
 addictive and fun.
  
  Cons:
  
  Unbalanced Good/Evil- It's much easier to play through as a good guy, as you receive more money, 
 more people like you, and it's easier to get gifts. No real satisfaction from playing through evil.
 
  
  Too Easy- Combat becomes incredibly easy as you learn more skills, and there are no consequences 
 if you happen to die. Earning money becomes easy with businesses, and there's always a golden trail 
 telling you where to go and what to do.
  
  Little Depth in Conversing- If you want to please/scare/flirt/marry someone, all you do is just 
 pick an expression and spam it over and over until you get the desired result. As such, it's hard 
 to care about your family or any other character besides your dog. 
  
  Bad Co-Op- If you play co-op, only the host can use his character while the guest has to manually 
 create an in-game "henchmen" and use that. Really, this should have been just left out. 
  
  Bad Presentation- The story sucks, the characters suck, there are frequent loading times, the main 
 menu is slow to navigate, and the game lacks polish. Later on using high level spells on large 
 number of enemies can really hit the framerate.
  
  Overall: B+ (Fun with tons of value, but lacks Polish)
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: greasysteve927
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 22, 2009 7:26 pm PT
Review:  I had really high expectations for Fable 2, but it kind of let me down. I really liked Fable. It 
 was the second game I played on my Xbox, back when the 360 hadn't come out yet. The AI was ok pretty 
 for an Xbox game and the combat was pretty fun. I enjoyed playing it, and I did every single quest. 
 However Lionhead said Fable 2 would be even better. So I was psyched. I reserved a copy of Fable 
 2, but I couldn't pick it up the day it came out. Once I got it I played it for a long time. I 
 stayed up till 4 in the morning playing it. I was kind of disappointed with it, but I stuck with 
 it and played all the way through. They should have worked with the graphics, they were barely 
 better than Fable's. Also they should have had more differentiating AI types. There were very few. 
 Whenever I was in Bowerstone, if there were more than three AI, I could usually see a double. Combat 
 was good, but too easy. There were no consequences to losing all your health (besides scars) you 
 cannot die. Other than that and a few other flaws, it was a pretty good game. I really liked head 
 shotting badits and or villagers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hautarzt
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 20, 2009 5:45 am PT
Review:  hyped to the max as we all know....
  pro:
  yes, theres tons of people you may "sims-style/tamagotchi style" interact with as to influence 
 their "attitude towards you", but to what avail? who knows. as they rarely talk at all. think of 
 moving background sprites. or chicken with a wig.
  
  con:
  After 30 minutes of playing (of course not really having any idea what the gameplay itself would 
 be like - yet) I got the disturbing feeling, that I have seen all this before, only much better. 
 So while I was wandering across the plump landscape, with the forced "cartoonish-cutisch" look, 
 getting a sour stomach here and there over the obvious lack of fine polish, or just some abundant, 
 blurry, plain flat, texture, (was it so hard to implement basic bump mapping?) - I finally came 
 to it: Overlord.
  Same style, only better. Better leveldesign, better textures, much better lighting, better animations, 
 better ambience in total. whereas fable 2 seems like a prototype of overlord, presumably from 2003 
 or so.
  
  not that disturbing, since theres much worse looking games out there. However - next major partycrasher: 
 character interaction. theres basically none. here and there theres some quest giver waiting to 
 be approached, robotically spilling out his information... but why? I couldnt have cared less about 
 anyone in this game, including the pointless dog. and i dearly missed fallout 3 or something in 
 that quality range (ya, not perfect either, but much much better on the "immersion level") .
  
  worst of all and eventuall game shelver for me: the much mentioned, missing map system. Youll 
 NEVER know where you actually are (in albion) , where other villages are or where anything actually 
 is. theres a local mini (as in tiny-cant-see) map of the immediate surrounding, but as to find 
 out where fabled "littleirrelevantvillage" actually is, - , no can do. chaotic stumbling around 
 blocky forrestpaths is the common modus operandi. and i thought its supposed to be a RPG, where 
 betravelling a "world" is what its all about.
  
  Quite a dissapointment, I dare say the first fable was better (cos it was somewhat "new" at that 
 time) . Maybe the "story" will really kick in after 10 hours or so, it didnt for me. Maybe common 
 xbox users are used to playstation 2 graphics (I'm not) .
  Maybe Keanu Reeves is indeed a good actor. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: antidon2000
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 25, 2009 10:30 pm PT
Review:  After hearing some time ago that the game that I never finished in 2005 was getting a sequel I 
 was excited to see how it would turn out. Just right before Fable II came out I got Fable I off 
 Xbox Live and played it all the way through. I won't say the original had a great impact on me 
 but non the less it was a decent game.
  
  When Fable II arrived it was one of those games where I actually went down and bought in its first 
 week of release. Most games aren't able to make me do that. I think what I was looking forward 
 to the most was the way on how much improved it would be over the original. I wasn't expect the 
 story to be any better but more that it would be much longer and the environment wouldn't be so 
 claustrophobic. What I mean by that is I was forced to always stay on the path of the road and 
 was never able to walk in the grass or swim in the river. All that changed when I first played 
 Fable II.
  
  In both those departments Fable II succeeds. I wouldn't say the game is much longer but still it 
 is just about the right length for an RPG game. The environment is much more open than the original 
 and that makes the world of different for me. So on the list Fable II checks off on those two.
 
  
  Though Fable II is much richer as far as story and character development it doesn't stack up to 
 the hype. I was expecting a more diverse story line and more character development. There is something 
 that seems very weak about having the story start off with purchasing a magic music box. For a 
 series that is called "fable" it should have a more epic story line to it.
  
  As far as difficulty goes the games pretty equally compare. I found each game found a right balance 
 of not being too difficult but not being cheesecake easy at the same time. Also both games equally 
 compare on the leveling up. Though Fable II has more options as far as fighting and magic but not 
 enough that says this game is four years older than its predecessor. Same thing kinda goes with 
 the clothes and how tall or large your character can be. On the bright side I is a great improvement 
 that we are now able to choose either of boy hero or a girl hero. I have a weakness for girls who 
 can kick ass but still be beautiful. The problem is when she starts getting too tall or too strong. 
 I'm not so fond of macho women.
  
  Lets not forget about the greatest feature of the game that has four legs and follows you everywhere. 
 Your doggy is what makes the game worth exploring in some manner of speaking because unlike having 
 an annoying sidekick that has too much to say you faithful companion will be there with you always 
 without saying a word. That is my favorite improvement of the game.
  
  Overall Fable II is a very good RPG game that is bound to make any fan of the original happy and 
 even satisfy anyone new to the series as well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pounder60JD
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 18, 2009 11:25 pm PT
Review:  one the recommendations of 2 friends, i bought this game. coming from fallout 3 i didnt know what 
 to expect, but i went in unbiased. i loved the story and the simplicity of the gameplay, the visuals 
 were great, as well as the leveling system. what i didnt about the game was A) the map system was 
 brutal for me to understand, i spent more time running around following a glow trail then actually 
 going anywhere near i intended B) the controls felt awkward, ie running into things i would expect 
 to go over, instead to just be stopped dead and forced to back pedal, and then someone or your 
 dog is blocking a door way its so damn frusterating trying to get out. C) i didnt care for the 
 repition. i loved how you could go get jobs and such, but it was just the same over and over and 
 over, id rather have more Go here, get that type quest than Go here, press A at a certain time 
 to win. overall i thought it was a good game, fun to play, easy to learn, but just not what i was 
 looking for. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MC_twisty
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 18, 2009 8:20 pm PT
Review:  Although this game was very pleasurable it lacked some features of a solid role playing game. This 
 game is highly addictive to perfectionists who want all legendary weapons, expressions, unique 
 buildings etc. To be honest i thought fable 2 was gonna be better but it lacked some of the charm 
 of the first fable. The story was too short but that's made up by the vast freedom you have in 
 the game. Asides from that fable 2 is very fun who doesn't enjoy putting a ye' olde cap in some 
 midevil ass. The story is that your an orphan who's connected to a bloodline of hero's including 
 the hero from the last game. You set out on a quest to avenge your sister's death to an evil no 
 gooder by the name of lord Lucien. Throughout the game you'll meet up with 3 other heroes who contain 
 vital skills skill, will and strength to defeat lord Lucien. As you progress you will gain exp 
 towards some perks for your character. The online play is an annoyance to play as the camera focuses 
 on both you and your friends characters. to wrap it all up this game gets a 8.0 this game isn't 
 a must get but it isn't forgettable. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wedge598
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 16, 2009 6:18 am PT
Review:  Fable 2 can really be best summarized as typical hack-n-slash dungeon romp with a bunch of sims-like 
 gameplay elements thrown in to make you feel more like a part of game world. Quite honestly it's 
 doesn't mix the two all that convincingly but what you end up with is undoubtably fun.
  
  Even if you work through a good number of the side quests you'll be lucky to push this game past 
 the 20 hour mark. But that is part of the beauty of this game. You aren't left wandering about 
 aimlessly looking for something to do. The games pace is well established to keep you interested 
 and coming back.
  
  The gameplay is simple but very well done. You have 3 basic attacks: melee (swords, maces, hammers) , 
 ranged (bows, pistols, rifles) and magic (with 6 or 7 different "spells") . Each attack is triggered 
 with one button press but you can enhance those by buying new abilities with the experience you 
 earn fighting. Upgrading the melee gives you the ability to counter attacks, range upgrades allow 
 you to zoom in and magic attacks give you the ability to super charge the spells. There are even 
 more abilities to learn but I won't go through them all now. The fact that each attacks is activated 
 with a single button press you can easily attack with a flurry of all three attacks for some really 
 cool effects. 
  
  If you are a Star Wars fan like me you can tailor your character to use some Jedi-like abilities. 
 Using a combination of the lightling, time slow, and force push spells with your long sword you 
 can wreck havoc like a Dark Jedi! 
  
  In between quests you are encouraged to take part in the community to create a life for your character. 
 This is largely an optional excercise but can be helpful. The biggest benefit I found was the ability 
 to purchase real estate which will earn you money. The key to affording everything you want is 
 to building an income as soon as you can. Early on you'll be given the opportunity to each money 
 by working as a blacksmith, wood cutter or bartender. These are rather repetative mini-games that 
 you can make money with. Each job type has 5 levels and working through all 5 levels could take 
 a couple hours. But doing so will give you plenty of money to buy property. Buying property will 
 earn you an income. If you buy houses you can rent them out and if you buy a business you'll get 
 a profit from it. The rent/profit is awarded to your character every 5 minutes of real time. The 
 amount you get is based on a small percentage of the purchase price. The beauty of it is that you'll 
 earn this money while you are not playing as the game keeps track of the time between plays and 
 gives you the money you would have made during the down time. Keep this up for a few days and you'll 
 have a substantial income with which you can buy whatever you want.
  
  Graphically it's a very nice looking game with plenty of jaw dropping sights. There is a fair amount 
 of draw-in of the terrain detail which is more evident when you are running but overall you won't 
 be annoyed with it. 
  
  Achievements are nicely distributed and you should be able to achieve a good 700 points playing 
 through one time. 
  
  Co-op is nicely incorporated so that anyone can pop in and out to join your quests at any time. 
 It works online and locally. The problem is, you really don't need the help with any of the fights 
 as they were designed for a single player. 
  
  Bottom line is all the little sims-like elements seem to work at a basic level but aren't really 
 necessary to your success. They might entice some players but I found them largely distracting 
 and so I only really focused on the money making part. It's all there and works but doesn't necessarily 
 tie in to the point where it all fells like a part of one game. The combat and community portions 
 of the game don't really rely on each other as much as they could. Despite that it was a lot of 
 fun and it never gets old when you super charge a spell and send a wave of destruction out around 
 you.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: antipunt1
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 16, 2009 3:31 am PT
Review:  Fable 2 is really a mixed bag. Before I began, I already knew that it wasn't going to be as amazing 
 as I found the first (due to fan-reactions I've noticed) . As I began to play, however, I realized 
 it was a lot better than I had anticipated. The battle system was surprisingly fun, the towns and 
 world beautiful, and the storyline not bad at all. As I continued into the quest, it only got better. 
 The game was headed in a 8.5 direction. When everything came to a close, however, something strange 
 happened.
  
  I rate games based on impact. And I already know there will be many who disagree with my review. 
 But one thing remains unchanged: no one will be able to make rebuttals to my points. I have spent 
 days on forums posting the questions that I am about to release here. And Fable 2 fanboys can click 
 the 'not helpful button' all they like, but the fact remains: my points are valid, and the main 
 excuses will either be:
  
  a) Fable 3 will answer these questions (an excuse, essentially)
  b) I am digging too deep (also 
 an excuse)
  
  Bottom line is, some gamers don't put much emphasis on storyline/characters. But I do. And especially 
 after playing Fable 1 and enjoying the rather light-hearted nature of it all (but having the satisfying 
 Twinblade/Jack of blades arcs, etc.) , I had a right to have higher expectations. It's not so much 
 that Fable 2's story is just bad. It's that it's -worse- than bad; it left an annoying-pain in 
 my stomach, because it was just so unjustified and callous. It's like playing an entire game only 
 to discover that you have been 'punked' essentially. I will spend the entire 2nd half of my review, 
 posting my reasoning. In short, I challenge anyone: if you are able to (realistically) answer the 
 plotholes/injustices I present, I will reload my review and change my score.
  
  First off, let's throw out the things Fable 2 did right. I was surprised to find myself impressed 
 with many parts of the game when I started. It had a great battle system in my opinion, despite 
 what some say. The system was just very satisfying, both in terms of leveling up, and spell/move 
 execution. In addition, Albion looked great. I can't say the same for the character models, but 
 the actual environments were beautiful, ranging from the textures to the numerous backgrounds.
 
  
  The gameplay in general was just fun. My main complaint here was the superficiality of Albion's 
 npcs, but they were alright overall I suppose. The character models were a bit annoying; the main 
 female character, for one, could not lose her thunder-thighs (despite having 0 muscle and fatness) . 
 In a nutshell characters just did not look attractive, male nor female. The environments made up 
 for this, however, in the graphics department.
  
  More gameplay complaints are the loading times and lag. These haunt the entire game's performance 
 throughout. Still, didn't find these to be a -major- detraction, but it was still noticeable. Also, 
 the good/evil system was very shallow. Not that I was expecting much better, but I do have a bone 
 to pick with this 'system'. Sometimes, you get 'evil points' for doing something debatably unevil. 
 For a game that emphasizes freedom, it sure likes to 'preach' at you a lot (for example, you have 
 rarely any incentive to be evil ever in the game, except to just be a jackass in general) . This 
 is in sharp contrast to some other games, where evil has its many realistic 'rewards'.
  
  All in all, I found Fable 2 to have pretty good gameplay. Most of the things were constructed quite 
 nicely, actually. But the problem is, it doesn't just end here; there's also the appallingly bad 
 story direction.
  
  There are different types of storylines in my book: a) excellent b) not too bad c) pretty bad d) 
 bad to the point of aversion. Big surprise for me was that Fable 2 fell into d, which caused me 
 to essentially hate the game. It's the same bitter feeling you get when a friend back-stabs you. 
 And after posting my woes on the forums for multiple days to only be answered with posts in agreement 
 or trolls/fanboys seething in rage, I was finally convinced. There was no legitimate answer to 
 my questions: it's just a really bad storyline.
  
  *********MASSIVE SPOILERS*******
  (please do not go on if you have not completed the game)
  
 
  
  The following is a copy of my forum argument, with regards to why I found Fable 2's storyline so 
 disappointing. It was written the night of finishing the game. The storyline was so disturbing, 
 that it kept me up until 5am in the morning. This is a direct cut/paste, and it begins now until 
 the end of this review:
  
  "Before certain somebodies start attacking me, I want to tell you all I'm not trolling. Merely 
 looking for rational minds to 'help convince me' that what I'm arguing isn't true. Because you 
 see, I -want- to like Fable 2. But the thing is, I just can't lie to myself. The ending is absolutely 
 -horrible-, and I will explain why, under the following premises:
  
  Premise: A game is supposed to make you feel good (essentially leave you without a feeling of disgust)
 
  
  So under that premise, I'm practically begging you to challenge me, b/c I'm convinced that Fable 
 2 has one of the most horrific storylines ever. And please, no immature comments/arguments, I can 
 see straight past those (not meant to be offensive, just matter of fact)
  
  #1. Hammer is a jerk: Throughout the game, I really liked Hammer. She was nice, and one of the 
 few people in Albion with a personality. However, things turned very bad after I beat the game 
 choosing the "Love" ending, which resurrects your dog. She literally says something like "well 
 since you care so little about people (referencing that you didn't save the spire-workers) , why 
 didn't you just take the money?!". Seeing that she was a) my good friend b) someone who experienced 
 the loss of a family members, and c) the capability to -even say this-, it makes her a jerk essentially. 
 It's an incredibly callous thing to say, and rendered her as another 'hated' character in Fable 
 2. I can't believe for the life of me that PM would allow such a horrible line of dialogue to be 
 said.. It only supports the notion that the game consistently 'preaches' to you to be 'unrealistically 
 good'.
  
  #2. Reaver is a jerk, and they don't let you kill him/get justice. First off, he turns you old/gray 
 (assuming you choose the moral choice) , and secondly, he kills Barnum. Barnum was a loved character 
 that grew up with you since you were a child, and he just killed him in 2 seconds. To make things 
 even worse, he betrays you. After -all- this BS, you can't enact any vengeance on him. This is 
 poorly done, because it means you're just left being po-ed. A good game has resolution, not pent-up 
 unfinished business.
  
  #3. Albion villagers are unlikable at heart. This is something we all know; they insult you taking 
 your weapon out for no reason, and then praise your farting prowess the next. So this leaves you 
 with little incentive to do 'sacrificial' choices. However, PM made it seem like throughout the 
 whole game, he was 'preaching at you'. Like Hammer being rude at the end for no reason. Basically 
 throughout the whole game, being sacrificial/good seemed the only thing the game wanted you to 
 be. There was no incentive to be evil really except being a jerk in general, which is in total 
 contrast to 'evil done right' in other games
  
  #4. My brother said something that hit home with me: Fable 2 has a storyline that leaves you feeling 
 'sick to your stomach' after its conclusion (that is, if you -think- about your storylines)
  
  For those who haven't picked up on this yet, refer to this:
  
  http://fable. wikia. com/wiki/Theresa
 
  
  so essentially, Theresa was using you as her 'pawn' the entire game. This leaves you with a nasty/unfinished 
 business aftertaste. To make things worse, PM doesn't give you any sense of closure. None-what-so-ever.
 
  
  So you were punked. Hooray. You wasted all your time, and to make matters worse, you furthered 
 the cause of evil. Under my premise, games should never make you 'feel like crap' after you are 
 finished. That just ruins the entire point.
  
  #5. There is a massive 'to be continued' label on the game's ending, besides Theresa's betrayal. 
 What are you left with? Assuming you were unfortunate enough to choose the sacrificial ending, 
 you are left with a bunch of Albion-citizens that still get unreasonably upset with you, and no 
 dog to live a lonely life. If you chose the love-pathway, you get a passive-aggressive Hammer, 
 and yet, still annoying feeling that you were punked by Theresa, Hammer (b/c you know what she 
 'would've' said in another situation) , and Reaver, with no ability to get revenge in any way. Lastly, 
 there are storyline threads that end up going nowhere:
  
  So Theresa is evil, but what the heck does she want? Tying things together with the Fable 1 storyline, 
 it is still hard to see what is going on. We have certain clues. Like the burning fire scene with 
 the music box. But the trail still goes cold. Also, what the **** is with that music box? It certainly 
 plays a -huge- role in everything, but is also, sloppily left unexplained.
  
  The only feeling you are left with is dissatisfaction. A putrid aftertaste that you cannot justify 
 at all.
  
  Excuse: "But there will be a Fable 3 to solve all this"
  
  I want to let you know I hate this response, because it doesn't solve the issue at hand. Fable 
 2's ending makes me sick in a way that makes me question if it was ever worth playing at all. And 
 I say for any game, this is surely a tragedy. Sadly, I was really enjoying it until the end, that 
 is, when everything ultimately fell apart into a mess of random-jibberjabber that only remains 
 disturbing. Disturbing and unsatisfying.
  
  I don't enjoy Horror Movies that toy with my heart-strings like that, and I certainly do not respect 
 Fable 2 for doing this either. Let with no closure, a big slap in the face, and a hook to buy yet 
 another installment, I'm just left feeling sick.
  
  I hope people don't take this as an assault, I am merely explaining my true feelings. What happened 
 in all this mess? Where can I find closure? Why do you think the story is good, in comparison to 
 Fable 1, which by the way, left me completely fulfilled and happy?" 
::::::

::::::
UserName: i-- Ki1l -- U
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 15, 2009 2:10 pm PT
Review:  I highly recommend this game to anybody that is even remotely interested in video games. The visuals 
 are really nice and the game has an insanely good combat system (X for swords, Y for gun, and B 
 for Magic) . With the short learning curve you will be pulling sweet combos and amazing attacks 
 in the first 20 minutes of picking up the game. The game is really good from the beginning but 
 will only get better as you play through. It has got many of glitches (a few of them were put on 
 there on purpose) but it can really be advised not to glitch your way to the top of the leaderboards. 
 The only 3 things that stop this game from getting a perfect 10 are the fact that it has a cliched 
 story, the fact that it is short and least of all the fact that there is quite a lot of loading 
 time. But apart from that you are really going to enjoy this game.
  You really should buy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: st0k3d
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 14, 2009 7:05 pm PT
Review:  Fable 2 picks up exactly where the original left, and tries to add on to the RPG, which it does, 
 but isnt quite the best it could be.
  
  You play as a character who is set on a quest to avenge his or her sisters death by owning, yeah 
 owning, the guy who killed her. You end up having to find 3 heroes to help you defeat the guy. 
 It works, not the greatest, doesnt really seem like your trying that hard at revenge considering 
 he killed your sister right in front of you.
  
  The idea that inspired the Fable games was all about moral decisions. You minus moral for kill 
 innocents or marrying 2 woman at the same time, or gain moral for stopping bad guys and being nice. 
 Its cool to say "well im going to be the nicest person ever", but really, the consequences for 
 being really good or really bad doesnt really matter. You could be the most ugly, fat, mean person 
 you want and you will still find a wife.
  
  The graphics are solid, a lot of different environments which make it nice to look at.
  
  The 
 combat is unique and seperates itself from other RPG games which is nice. Its good how it somewhat 
 forces you to use hand to hand, range and magic. You also upgrade all your stats, attributes, moves 
 and weapons which it kind of has to have in order to make it an RPG.
  
  There are also side quest activities like mini games for money, buying property and getting married. 
 To me personally, again it all relates to moral decisions in life you live in the game, but there 
 wasnt really any reason to do these things over and over. Yes, if i go smith weapons for 20 minutes 
 i could buy that new pistol but just sitting there pressing a button inside a a colored arc isnt 
 very fun.
  
  Overall, Fable 2 is a solid game but in my opinion there isnt very much purchase value. If your 
 a diehard Fable fan and like playing it for 20 hours... fair enough. You could probably finish the 
 game fairly quickly in a week if you went from quest to quest, plus there isnt much of a replay 
 value. I still did enjoy playing the game though. Looking forward to a Fable 3.
  
  St0k3d 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GamerankingsUK
Rating: 1
Date: Mar 15, 2009 5:15 am PT
Review:  The worst game on xbox yet! This game was hyped up for failed epically in what it said it would 
 give, it has a crap story and bad voice acting from villergers, it is the most bugged game of 2008 
 and woman when you hit them sound like men proving this game was rushed. The combat is very bad 
 and this game has the worst spell system ever! The game is very small and the world is half the 
 size of that of Fable I which is very annoying.
  
  The achivements will not be combat realated said Peter Molexxx but nearly all the achivements where 
 combat realated.
  
  It failed in everything it tried too do and is not worthy of being on 360, the dlc which I have 
 not played is very short from what I've heard so it looks like they keep disserpointing.
  
  If you won't a good game on 360 right now go check your bargain bin for games that came out a year 
 or so a ago and you'll find much better games than this.
  
  
  1/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: damiancds
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 13, 2009 8:36 pm PT
Review:  I'll get right to the point about what i think was good and bad
  
  Bad-
  
  Very long load times- 
  -I mean sit down and read a book long, (but seriously, long enough that 
 they can show roughly 3 to 4 helpful hints before its done)
  
  Magic Combat- 
  -Personally, I liked the first games magic system better, although with this, you'll feel uber-powered 
 with the first offensive spell you buy, I liked having all my spells be instantaneous and just 
 spend the extra will points to use them. (basically i don't like waiting there in the middle of 
 a mob waiting for my most powerful spell)
  -There's not even as many spells and they took away en-flame (basically a fire blast with a little 
 force push in it, which happened to be my favorite spell) , and replaced it with only wimpy fire 
 rings
  
  Economy System Sucks- 
  -It's way to easy to earn money, you can master a job, which nearly everyone will do, and make 
 an investment, and just get money every 5 minutes (they should have at least increased the time 
 period, heck, you even get money when you're not playing, granted that's only every hour I think, 
 but still)
  
  No Control over Saving- 
  -I found it extremely annoying that it auto saved after everything I did, I also couldn't create 
 multiple saves of one hero (it's a habit in case I have to go back to an earlier stage)
  
  No Grandeur-  (RUINED GAME FOR ME)
  -The treasures that you dive/dig for are worthless, the silver 
 key chests contain no unique items, I've even got money from one (like you really need it with 
 the current economy) In the first one every treasure felt earned and had uniqueness to it. That 
 goes for the demon doors as well.
  
  Clothing/Armor- 
  -There is no such thing as armor, you might as well go around naked, clothing serves no purpose, 
 other than to cross-dress, or be aggressive/attractive. and none of it really looks good (if i 
 were a hero i wouldn't were that crap) . In the first one, the clothing fit with being a hero and 
 actually offered armor advantages
  
  No Map- 
  -No minimap whatsoever, and don't even think about pausing everytime you want a reference of the 
 map (idiotic design)
  
  Menu- 
  The menu is extremely cumbersome, and can suck you right out of the experience
  
  Learning 
 is for the poor- 
  -What's the sense in fighting so many enemies for experience when you can go to town and buy experience 
 potions for a mere pittance?
  
  Good-
  
  Melee combat- 
  it seems a little deeper than the first in that you can string combos together if your fluid enough, 
 other than that, nothings changed.
  
  Ranged Combat- 
  -The ranged combat seems the most improved since the last outing, with abilities like sub targeting 
 can really change how you fight your enemies
  
  Difficulty- 
  -Though the difficulty in this is a little higher than the first one (you'll actually get hit in 
 this one) I'm not quite sure if it's for good reasons, mostly out of frustration really, (you can 
 be attacking somebody and another person about 10 ft. away will use most likely force push and 
 knock you around - very annoying)
  -I should point out that you can't actually die, you'll get knocked down and get a scar, (unless 
 you have a special potion that costs i think around $1000 (in a game where you can easily earn 
 around 1 million for practically nothing) )
  
  Charm- 
  -The charm that was in the first one's still there,
  
  Larger Areas- 
  -Nice to be able to 
 explore something not linear but without a developed map/mini map it feels hindered
  
  
  Summary-
  -This game is more for those who haven't played the first one and others who don't 
 mind crappy treasure hunting (believe me, it was enough to make me hate the game)
  -The game's setting just isn't fit for hero's and it shows, the  
 were much better planned in the first one and while the story works, the time period for the game 
 doesn't 
::::::

::::::
UserName: majestictypo
Rating: 6
Date: Mar 13, 2009 4:55 am PT
Review:  Fable 2 is a VERY pretty hack'n'slash game. Though it says so on the box, it can not be considered 
 an RPG, because in 2008 the standards for such games are higher than what the sequel of Fable is 
 offering. It has an okay story, but the story telling part, the narrative, is unfortunately below 
 average. It's extremely linear and therefore uninteresting. As is the gameplay. Heavily scripted 
 and restrictive.
  
  Combat consists of simple button smashing - keep hitting X or Y until everyone is dead. Repeat. 
 
  As for spell casting - you basically have to charge spells for several seconds while standing still. 
 During that time enemies are hitting you. I found the only way to use magic at all late in the 
 game is to bind 'time stop' as the first spell you cast. Then, while it's working, you can charge 
 your damage spell. Yes, you have ONE high damage spell you can use at a time. If you want to use 
 something else in the middle of a fight you must pause the game, navigate the menus, bind a different 
 spell and unpause the game. There are no armors in the game. Nor are there any stats. Your character 
 doesn't have STR /DEX /VIT or anything like that. Infact, there are hardly any numbers at all - 
 you can not see the amount of damage your enemies do nor can you see your own damage. When using 
 weapons, it has to be calculated by looking at, and adding up, several figures in the menus. When 
 using magic, once you maximize a spell, you won't be able to see its damage anywhere anymore either. 
 
  
  It takes an unreasonable amount of effort to try and play strictly as a mage as a warrior or as 
 a rogue. As a result, your character is a jack of all trades, there is little to no variety between 
 the characters one can make in the game. I ended up with a character that had maximized all of 
 the warrior skills, all of the rogue skills and several of the mage skills such as 'time stop' 
 and 'force push' (an area effect spell with a damage of 1800. For comparison, your melee and ranged 
 attacks eventually have a damage around 200-300)
  
  There are no armors in the game, just clothes. Weapon selection is limited so money becomes rather 
 useless. I bought the best weapon from a shop when I was about 40% through the game, kept using 
 it till the very end. After that I spent all my money buying houses so I could make more money... 
 to buy more houses. 
  
  The opportunity to own a real estate empire is one of the few redeeming qualities of Fable 2. Unfortunately 
 it's barely enough to justify playing a game where the enemies respawn in a cleared area should 
 you choose to revisit that location 5 minutes later. 
  
  [At least it doesn't have quicktime events.]
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: loopymaster1
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 12, 2009 6:46 pm PT
Review:  I wouldn't say that this game is better than the first, although it is definitely one of my favourite 
 games to date. It has stunning visuals and sound, and the game-play flows really well. The story 
 is very captivating and you can get into really quickly. Though the visual is nice, the sound is 
 excellent and it is really easy to switch from one type of attack to another making it flow really 
 well, the game is just too damn short. No more than 6 maybe 7 hours tops until you finish the game. 
 Though there are quests to be completed after the main storyline is finished, these will only last 
 another hour or so. You will most likely be playing this game for a long time, and even though 
 you won't be playing it for weeks and weeks, you will find yourself coming back to this game many 
 times. If you are a fan of good video games, you should definitely check this one out, it will 
 keep you entertained for hours on end. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cainetao11
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 8, 2009 7:16 pm PT
Review:  Fable 2 continues to expand the world of Albion through time and real estate. In this sequel you 
 can buy more, earn more and still kill, like the original. I, for one don't get JRPG's. Especially 
 turn based combat ones. Give me Fable or Fallout 3 anyday over FF7. Fable 2 takes place 500 years 
 after the events of Fable. If you played that you know them since you chose your character alignment, 
 and ultimately the ending. Well guess what? There's more of that in Fable 2, but altered a little. 
 Like the inclusion of firearms and a combat system that uses 1 button for whatever type your using, 
 melee, magic, or ranged. Small allusions to the original are seen in 2, and I dig that. It's not 
 necessary to have played the first, as the story of the second stands on it's own, but I'm glad 
 Lionhead acknowledge it for fans of the first. Choices seem to be the big thing in any Fable game 
 and there are plenty of them. From your first, deciding on what sex to make the protaganist, to 
 what type of action or response which will affect an alignment of sorts. The addition of the dog 
 companion is great. No more trial and error with the spade from the first title, now your dog sniffs 
 treasure out for you. And it'll fight for you as well. With upgrades to hunting and combat skills, 
 your four legged friend can be invaluable to you over the course of your journeys. I'm big on story 
 in my games and I dig the tale crafted for this game. Aside from main story quests, are the mostly 
 witty quests for the people of Albion to keep you chuckling. My real problem with Fable 2 can be 
 found with the end of the main story, but going into detail would spoil it. In the end Fable 2 
 is a great action RPG that caters to fans of the first, while being accessible to new players as 
 well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rester
Rating: 6
Date: Mar 7, 2009 2:10 pm PT
Review:  Played Fable and finished. Played Fable 2 and finished. I got the same overall aftertaste from 
 both, but in Fable2's case that was made worse by a lack of real innovation.
  
  True, Fable2 expands on a lot of elements that were only sketched in the first episod and introduces 
 a few novelties (e. g., the dog) . However, at the end of the day, none of them really matter... 
 That is mainly caused by an absolutely cliched, irrelevant story and characters, an overall unbalance 
 of many of the game's elements, such as its internal economy, difficulty level and the sense that 
 non of the elements is fully fleshed out.
  
  The story is absolutely forgettable... evil wizard trying to conquer the world. All you do in the 
 game is extremely loosely tied to the story and the in-game storytelling attempts are badly realized 
 and boring. Characters go from the absolutely irrelevant to the RPC-cliche' to the straight annoying 
 and dialogues are nothing you want to spend more than 15 seconds listening to. Missions are varied 
 in their description, but end up being a go-to-somewhere/kill monsters/come back type of affairs 
 most of the times. 
  
  The sceneries are also pretty repetitive... you pretty much have 1) the town 2) the countryside 
 3) The dungeon. Same goes with the monsters, of few varieties and all already seen in other games. 
 Absence of boss fights is pretty staggering, and the absence of a final game boss fight is even 
 more so.
  
  The game is also extremely easy, mainly due to the fact that you cannot die. You basically plow 
 through it, you get killed, you respawn 5 seconds later, continue until you are done. 
  
  The combat system is fun and satisfying at first but gets repetitive quickly. Given the overabundance 
 of currency in your pockets you get very good weapons very soon, so no enemy is areal challenge. 
 And the fact you cannot die makes it all irrelevant anyway. You also have a wide variety of spells, 
 but you really need just a couple, the rest doesn't really make a difference.
  
  The "social" aspects are very poorly implemented... lots of good ideas, but most of them miss the 
 mark. I found the expression-based communication system retarded and the fact people get to love 
 you or hate you doesn't really have any significant impact on the gameplay. At the end of the day 
 you are immortal and you have way more cash than you'll ever need so the fact somebody has a little 
 sad face icon on his/her head is not really a big deal. NPCs (including your wife if you get one) 
 are dumb, repeat the same 4-5 sentences and behave like idiots: you can shoot them and then kiss 
 them and they will love you again. You never get a feel for a living breathing environment and 
 no sense of connection to it, which makes all the social interactions pointless.
  
  As I mentioned before, the whole economic aspect of the game doesn't work, since there is no real 
 strategic trade-off to be made. Once you get into a job a max it, you get so much cash that you 
 can buy yourself the best equipment and a couple of real estates to generate all the cash you need 
 for the rest of the game. Yes, you can run around town and cause a ruckus, so that the local economy 
 will take a hit but in the grand scheme of things... it doesn't matter. 
  
  Graphics are nice, especially when it comes to background art. Characters models are well realized 
 even though I am not in love with the art style. Animations are OK but can get a bit quirky and 
 imprecise especially during combat. Other issue I had is with total lack of interactivity with 
 the gameworld. This ain't no Elder Scrolls for sure!
  
  Bottom line, even if a lot of little details, activities and nuances have been introduced since 
 the first game, no one is really compelling enough to make you care. Nothing really matters in 
 this game. Button mashing does. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: CCyberDDemon
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 5, 2009 3:30 pm PT
Review:  This time my old buddy Peter did it quite right... for what he have said on interviews. Dont get 
 offended man, i just dont like how im fooled sometimes. Fable II have an better story and innovative 
 real-time gameplay than before, including a good amount of freedom and choice to explore a good 
 ammount of dungeons, catacombs and caves in the world of Albion. Fable II expands upon the scope 
 and depth of the last title by adding new features and creating a wider, more complex kingdom of 
 choices and consequences. Players have the option to play as a man or woman, get married, have 
 children, and live a life of their own design. Revisit the sprawling world of Albion more than 
 500 years after the events of the first Fable where you are free to explore the landscape and openly 
 roam the countryside. The first Fable wasnt like that where you could find only find little paths 
 and little kingdoms with little quests. Resuming it for you... Fable is on his re-birth.
  
  I dont want to spot it for you, there are 3 special heroes each one with his special skills between 
 will, strenght and the will for magic... you are the fourth something to balance it all. They got 
 a good idea to keep your eyes on the game, that makes it interesting enough for you to see the 
 conclusion of it. Its adventure on its finnest, thats for sure.
  
  For the right price every house, hut, dungeon and castle is for sale. Players can witness how the 
 world grows and changes in response to their decisions, unlike those false promisses on the last 
 game. Somethings can be a little exagerated like the public manifestation over you hero, if he 
 is too good or too evil those NPCS have the tendence to be damn overwhelmed. but still interesting. 
 Fable II is strong on his new combat system designed to allow players to truly master hand weapons 
 such as swords and maces, ranged combat weapons such as bows and guns, and the magic system. Note 
 that those magics in fact, are better and well balanced now, and not over-powered like the last 
 time. He have these three disciplines and allow players to mix combat styles and become everything 
 from master swordsman to skilled ranger to evil magic welder. The infamous ''single action button'' 
 on the controller is not that perfect and amanzing like he (peter) has said before, but they did 
 it good. Ok... we got thousands of buttons to press on that controller but anyway, cool. Hey, sometimes 
 you get a good laugh... the game have funny momments and comic situations in a good state-of-art 
 state. Like a little colorfull fair tale book.
  
  The real problem on Fable its not the game core, but the details. What kind of game can have a 
 monster-glitch who paralyzes the game for good? That also makes your in game familly dissapear 
 or make annoying lags all over the main menu? Where are those beta-testers? Ask me and i tell you, 
 the lead progammer have to open his eyes. 
  
  Rent it first, see if you like it, buy it
  
  Till next time Peter 
::::::

::::::
UserName: standarddamage
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 3, 2009 3:04 pm PT
Review:  On the list overly-ambitious titles released this generation, Fable 2 has to be right at the top. 
 Peter Molyneux and Lionhead Studios set out to create an adventure game with RPG-lite elements 
 that would allow you to mold your character into whatever you want, and for the most part they 
 succeed in doing so. 
  
  Whatever you want your character to become, you can have it all and a bag of chips. Want your character 
 to be a chaste magic-wielding monk who is quiet and reserved? You can have it. Want your character 
 to be an evil tyrant who slaughters everything in his site? You can have it. Want your character 
 to be a swordmaster who farts in polite company and eventually ends up getting a sex change? Yes, 
 believe it or not, you can literally have it if that's what you want.
  
  Everything here is about choices and development, and everything in the game grows and changes 
 with you. There's a laundry list of things you can do: become a landlord, go on dates, get married 
 (to more than one wife if you prefer) , have kids, kill innocents, steal, read, be an interior decorator, 
 get your hair cut and dyed, dye your clothes, go shopping... and this is just what you do in your 
 spare time. 
  
  It's the attention to detail and how it plays out that makes it so enjoyable and replayable, and 
 the atmosphere never gets too heavy. Comic relief might come in the form of the off-hand joke or 
 the passing chicken you just punted into next week. No matter what it is, it will give you some 
 reprieve from the heavier storyline aspects, and helps keep it from collapsing under its own weight.
 
  
  With all of this attention being paid to everything you could fiddle around with, you would think 
 the main quest would suffer as a result. Not here. It's as epic an adventure as it should be (an 
 anti-climatic ending not withstanding) , and intertwines with all of the aforementioned day-to-day 
 activities very nicely. It should be noted that things like taking care of your spouse and children, 
 keeping your home, and other miscellaneous activities never becomes a pain, either. You'll never 
 have to stop questing just to go change diapers, for example. The whole mechanic is very well balanced. 
 
  
  Much like its own premise, however, the game is two-sided in that it technically falls short in 
 a lot of ways, as the final product comes loaded with bugs and technical shortcomings that are 
 impossible to ignore and detract from the overall game experience. 
  
  Graphically speaking, Fable 2 is no better than average when at its best, and disastrous when at 
 its worst. While it has some gorgeous lighting effects and an art style that really enhances that 
 mystical, storybook feel, everything else is pretty much a wash. Characters and enemies are particularly 
 bad in this regard, as they're stiff and have no sense of gravity whatsoever. It's even worse when 
 they talk, as their jaws are pretty much on a hinge. So what you end up with are a bunch of astronaut 
 muppets, and its more than a little distracting.
  
  You'll also run into a few problems with the sound. They nailed the voice acting and the soundtrack, 
 but the sound doesn't move with you. If someone is talking right in front of you and you turn the 
 camera to left, the sound will stay right in front of you in terms of what comes out of your speakers. 
 It's not so bad in when conversing with villagers, but its an absolute mess when you're trying 
 to track an enemy with audible clues. 
  
  It also suffers from the same plague that many RPG games do: All of the non-player characters walk 
 around and say the same things over and over again. And it will reach the point where you'll find 
 yourself running past villagers just to avoid having yet another repetitive conversation, because 
 it's either that or tear out your eardrums with a corkscrew.
  
  You should also know that the map system was designed by panel consisting of Stevie Wonder, Ray 
 Charles, and Helen Keller. It's useless when it comes to finding anything more than the closest 
 blacksmith (or pub) and really does nothing more than give you a general sense of direction. Try 
 doing repeated fetch quests from memory and see how long it takes before the frustration sets in.
 
  
  But beyond all of these problems, the worst are the bugs which come in all varieties from regular 
 to extra crispy. There really are some very bizarre things that happen during gameplay that leave 
 you wondering if your 360 is just screwing with you.
  
  For example, you can play entire missions with where your head stretches across the entire screen. 
 At another point, it will tell you that you're in a certain area when you're not, and then start 
 running through all of the different locations you've visited over the past hour until it catches 
 up to where you're currently standing. Several times your dog's head will appear disconnected from 
 its body, as the collar only shows the background behind it (as opposed to the collar itself) . 
 Some of the best bugs, however, are the "easy" missions you're given. And by easy I mean that you 
 do nothing more than show up where the quest is supposed to begin, and it tells you you've completed 
 the quest before you even lift a finger. You get robbed of the fun (and in some cases, hilarity) 
 of finishing the mission on your own.
  
  Don't feel that you have to avoid the game altogether because of all these issues, as many of these 
 will not happen frequently enough to ruin the experience. Just be warned that there are problems 
 before you go out and purchase the game. There is a definite lack of polish here, and why Lionhead 
 took all of the time and loving care to develop Fable 2's personality and then ignored everything 
 that would have completed the immersion and really given it a truly epic feel is completely beyond 
 comprehension. You get the feeling that someone pushed this out the door before it was finished. 
 
  
  So as it stands, both RPG and Adventure gamers will love this game as there's so much you can do 
 and become. As a matter of fact, it's this aspect that not only saves the game from its downfalls, 
 but also adds a lot of replay value. The fact that you can not only end up being a different person, 
 but also living in a completely different world is a major draw for this one. Just remember you'll 
 have to forgive a few flaws along the way. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MAR71N
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 2, 2009 9:42 am PT
Review:  A very good game that keeps you entertained for hours.... there are some minor glitches in the 
 game but these can be over looked because how the game grabs you and makes you feel for the characters 
 most of all you be friend (dog) this dog does everything you ask without thinking and loves you 
 more then anything and will never leave your side... I would recommend this game to anyone who 
 enjoys a RPG with a bit of caring for the characters and the story line wrapped around it all...
 
  
  There are many side quests along your way and as always with a fable your choice changes you and 
 all around you in many different ways, good / bad / neutral.
  
  You get the scene that you want everything to go right for everybody but as everyone knows there 
 always has to be sacrifices to be made on both sides... to find out more I would go out and buy 
 this game and see for your self.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Trogeton
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 1, 2009 5:14 pm PT
Review:  I just recently bought Fable 2, hoping that is was better than the prequel Fable. I was not excited 
 about the game at all when I first heard about the release, and started seeing ads, and posters 
 up at stores that sell video games and even seeing the trailers... didn't inspire me to getting 
 this game. NOW I own and have played it for a while, I have to say, this game is without a doubt 
 another game that is VERY VERY difficult to put down. I bought it, booted it up, and played it 
 for a non-stop 5 hours So far, but the game play, graphics concept, and well everything about the 
 game is so great, and much better than the first Fable, there are more decisions and co-op game 
 play now, there is so much more stuff that was changed, made better, and added on Fable 2 now it 
 being on the xbox360 made it easy to make the game all around superior that that previous one. 
 Don't shy away from an excellent game like Fable 2, even gamers that never even played the first 
 Fable could and will get into this game. This is a must get.. I am still finding out new and interesting 
 features on this game. 
  YOU WON'T REGRET IT 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jackhiggins
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 1, 2009 11:42 am PT
Review:  fable 2 is a very bright and good game. the begining of the game is a little bit slow but after 
 that it starts to get good. the good/evil system in the game is a very good addition. for people 
 reading this that are new to the game it starts of with childhood after that is when the main part 
 of the game starts. the battles in the game sometimes get fustrating but most of the time there 
 pretty good. it can have very evil or very good times in the game. you could donate money to the 
 temple of light or go around slaughtering innocents. the choice is yours. all in all very good game 
 worth buying. graphics 10 gameplay 10 difficulty a little bit hard a little bit easy. online play 
 havent done that yet. FABLE 2 RULES! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Davoski182
Rating: 6
Date: Mar 1, 2009 3:05 am PT
Review:  I'm not allowed a personal vendetta so I'm not going to...
  I'm simply going to say... Unimpressive.
  
  Bit of a slow start, which kind of bores the living 
 bejesus outta the beginning. Been told it's good afterwards, but it's really hard to see. Patience 
 is kind of hard to hold with a game as dulling as this.
  I've played it, a bit. It's not the greatest.
  The idea of the whole thing itself is great. An 
 achievement in it's own right and the way the world of it works is brilliant. The graphics are 
 well built and no one can possibly say that it isn't worth it's weight in gold. I'll admit, for 
 those with the patience to the game, this is a good investment, but those who cannot find the time, 
 energy or urge to play it... May as well buy Dead Or Alive Xtreme 2.
  
  But I will give the whole thing credit. Being able to buy a whole village, marry every woman, make 
 an absolute fortune, kill every person, become the best at every job, become brilliantly good or 
 brilliantly evil and to throw your weight around like a tonne of bricks on the end of a crane (not 
 the right time-line, but nevertheless) is a brilliant concept. It's individuality and imagination 
 was well strung out so I reckon keep it up and you'll probably come up with something I'll give 
 full thumbs up to. But until that comes out, it could be improved to a little bit more an interesting 
 start to get us ABSORBED into the game from part 1.
  
  Good Going :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: andy180084
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 28, 2009 9:34 pm PT
Review:  The graphics in this game are rich and many of the missions are fun. The only reason i did not 
 give this game a 10/10 is because of the difficulty and the main storyline. It is impossible to 
 die in this game, and beyond that it is very sad if you actually get knocked out. The missions 
 are fun but towards the end of the game it loses it's shine (i wont spoil the ending but its pretty 
 bad) . But the main story line isnt what makes the game so fun. The gameplay is so fun. You can 
 combine swordfighting, spells, and gunfighting all at once. The concept of real-estate is interesting 
 too. You can purchase just about every building in the game, and once you do you can make millions 
 of gold. As I already mentioned, the graphics especially considering the size of the game, are 
 beautiful. The concept of getting married, having children, and then maintaining that marriage 
 is also pretty neat. I must say, however that the new knothole island expansion really wasn't worth 
 the 800 ms points. I blasted through it in like half an hour, and the village only consists of 
 2 houses and 3 stores to own. But despite all the downsides i listed, this game is a great sequel 
 and is just as good as its predecessor. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Neon7771
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 26, 2009 5:27 pm PT
Review:  What comes to mind when I hear "Fable"? Things like entertainment, addictive, and interesting. 
 At the same time, I think of broken controls and a lacking storyline. Some of the problems were 
 fixed through the sequel, some still exist, and some new ones come into play. 
  Fable 2 offers similar customization to what Fable offered. Everything affects your good/evil standing, 
 including armor and expressions. Every little interaction with the world changes how people view 
 you. For people who are just starting to get into the extensive world of RPGs, this game is simple 
 and entertaining enough to keep them engrossed for a long time. For veterans of the genre, you 
 will be left wanting much much more.
  The story is just as short as its predecessor. Side quests are present, but nowhere near enough 
 to make it feel like a whole game. The entire experience feels like a replay of the first game. 
 It is nowhere near as addicting as the first, and you will find yourself bored of it very quickly. 
 
  The combat is very easy and straightforward. Most of the time you'll find yourself using your close 
 or long range weapon. The magic portion of combat is extremely downplayed, making it more of a 
 grind to get through than a fun experience.
  For veterans of the RPG genre, this game is disappointing. For new RPGers, this game is a very 
 good start. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: M4Ntan
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 26, 2009 12:28 pm PT
Review:  The game fable 2 is one of my most favorite RPGs ever. You dont need to know anything about fable 
 1 to play fable 2 except the game takes place on albion and is a role playing game. Though, the 
 game has a light story, you will get over it with all of the fun side quests to do and the oppertunitys 
 you can have will keep you coming back for more. Once completed though, the game slowly started 
 to get less addicting, but overall ive spent about 40 hours in albion and still come back for more. 
 I strongly reconmend if your a fan of the genre or a rent to check it out. Also, the expansions 
 lionhead are putting out are very fun, though short, there is many things to collect, I'm still 
 waiting for the next story for my hero's journey. This is my second favorite RPG and is right behind 
 fallout 3, mass effect following Fable 2. I suggest you check all 3 of these games out if you havn't 
 already. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheDanwich
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 25, 2009 9:19 am PT
Review:  You're just a kid, and life is a nightmare, and it's not fair that a bird just pooped in your hair. 
 That's how Fable II starts off, a poor little orphan boy and along with his sister standing in 
 front of a barrel of fire. Your sister (and apparently you) dreams of living in a castle far off 
 in the distance. Beyond the rubble of poverty that both of you have grown up in. So push comes 
 to shove and a magical box grants you that very wish, and yes, it's as abrupt and clich as it 
 sounds. Then your sister gets shot by the castles owner, and then he shoots you out a window. After 
 falling probably a hundred stories and somehow surviving you get taken away by a mysterious woman 
 who originally told you to get the magic box. So the story is basically about revenge, queue adventure 
 mode! For Fable II is not about story, rather, it's about the choices you make and the crazy cool 
 things that you can collect and do. 
  
  One thing I would like to say first is that I can finally lay my preconceived notions and expectations 
 to rest and proclaim that Lionhead Studio's finally made a solid fantasy RPG game. They really 
 do deserve credit for turning the linear plane that was the first Fable around and blasting it 
 off into a title worthy of a place in your collection, or at least a rental. Fable II is incredibly 
 solid in its own right and deserves at least a peak from everyone who considers themselves an RPG 
 fan. Even though most of the over blown promises are not delivered at all (again) . You should be 
 used to Peter Molyneux by now, and if your not then shame on you for being so nave, haven't you 
 learned by now that nothing he says is true?
  
  Anyway since our last visit to Albion a couple of things have changed. The combat system has been 
 completely reworked, for the better I might add. Every attack can be accomplished with one button, 
 including melee, ranged, and magic. Besides being rewarded specific experience points for the way 
 you destroy your foes you are also rewarded general experience for defeating enemies which you 
 can then add to your specific skills to upgrade them. That sounds like mouth full, but trust me 
 it's not that complicated. It manages to feel very smooth and intuitive. Yet, after the half way 
 point of the game the combat begins to feel tedious, since there really is no complexity or depth 
 behind it. But that is minor gripe; since it's still a great system that should probably be mimicked 
 by other RPG developers. 
  
  Of course there are still plenty of side quests to indulge in when the main storyline isn't your 
 cup of tea. Although varied at first, quickly I found myself repeating the same slave rescue missions 
 or bounty hunter quests multiple times. There still a slightly entertaining distraction, but would 
 it kill Lionhead to add some variety? Then there's the dog that everyone has been blabbing about. 
 Suffice to say I'm not impressed with it. All it really does is follow you around and bark when 
 it finds a spot to dig or a treasure chest to open. This may seem neat at first, but after the 
 halfway point of the game I found myself ignoring the dog all together because he gets annoying 
 and most of the treasure you find is worthless. I am a hypocrite though. For one I hate that he 
 tells me where all the treasure and items are hidden, but I love that he makes it easy for me to 
 find everything. This perk does come with a consequence though, making the games treasure hunting 
 aspect ridiculously easy takes away a lot of the fun and rewards that come with exploring.
  
  Then we run into the story, and seriously, what a joke. Not one aspect of it feels fresh, the 
 style in which the narrative is driven is mind numbly boring. Instead of actual cut scenes the 
 game creators decided to keep it all in real time. This might sound like a great idea, but I occasionally 
 found myself spacing out when important people were saying important things, partly because I did 
 not feel immersed. This aspect is probably going to be based more on opinion though. Some like 
 the way the story was handled and some do not, and I am definitely the latter. The quests that 
 go along with the story remain the most interesting aspect, but not by that much. Overall this 
 campaign is forgettable, and will require the mind of a two year old to comprehend. With the standard 
 for interactive story telling already set by Mass Effect and other superior titles, this game does 
 not stand a chance. 
  
  Fable II is still a vast improvement over its predecessor, not only in scope and creativity but 
 in value and presentation as well. This game really does shine. Still, it is not perfect by any 
 means. For an RPG it is definitely not as deep as it could be, the mini games are a boring and 
 tedious distraction, and most of the side quests are repetitious and mindless (seriously slaves, 
 stop getting captured) . I will not nit pick at all the minor annoyances though (story) , because 
 overall this game is a great play through in its own right. Side quests a plenty, the addition 
 of online coop play, and a bountiful amount of loot to collect make this game a great addition 
 to any RPG fans library. If you are a casual gamer looking for a baby step into the RPG world, 
 this one is for you. 
  
  I give Fable II .... 3 sandwiches out of 4. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: corey_man_20
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 23, 2009 11:34 pm PT
Review:  the game is quite good but there are alot more improvments to be made in the futer if they deside 
 to make a new one but it is a must buy and they need beter acheivments becaus there arnt enought 
 i already got 780 gamescore from this game alone in about 5 days pluss finishing it 3 times and 
 collecting 20m expeirience points and geting all skills to full and mybe they should make the game 
 a bit more harder to fight in becaus i can kill a troll with not losing any health easyly and also 
 maybe they should make the game alot longer becaus there arnt many missions to complete becaus 
 it is fairly boring and so that is my reveiw thank for reading another one of my reveiws so thanks 
 again and goodbye . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: W3En
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 23, 2009 2:50 pm PT
Review:  Fable II is an entertaining game but rather short. The game play was done well and the combat system 
 makes the game more enjoyable then hitting a long sequence of buttons to kill someone, but some 
 aspects of it lack the tradition role playing game features. The one button combat was extremely 
 simple, which could be considered good but i thought it lacked a bit because, meaning when I moved 
 the analog stick in one way and attacked with my sword i did a different attack then I previously 
 planned. The environment of Albion was done nicely and I always enjoy different weather in different 
 place but frankly, Albion is small. It was claimed by Lionhead that it would be two or more times 
 larger then the first Albion and would allow you to free roam. The free roaming capabilities of 
 the game are limited and Albion lack the size that was hoped for by the fable fans also it was 
 said that you would have to "work for money" which i did none of at all and still ended up with 
 millions of dollars (gold?) . The only other problem i had with this game was the fight with Lucian, 
 I don't know if I'm the only one this happened to but I killed him in one shot from a master pistol 
 (not epic) . One thing i did enjoy was the addition of guns. The auto-targeting went well with the 
 rest of the combat. I also liked how Bowerstone along with a few other towns evolved due to your 
 actions in the game, for example giving Barnum the money he asked for would turn Westcliff in to 
 a much more nice town then it previously was. A personal thing is that i like the change in weather, 
 for example the rain, snow, and sun in the DLC, Knothole island ( I don't know what it is I like 
 about it, I guess it just adds to the experience.) Overall i liked Fable II but thought it lacked 
 some key elements and was too easy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hayesplumbing
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 21, 2009 10:46 am PT
Review:  After spending the time developing my character, I hope they come up with more mission add-ons. 
 The game kept me entertained to the end and wanting more. I will give it a 10 on the fun factor. 
 I am sure it is not for everyone. But, I had a great time playing the game. The sound I though 
 was good. The controls were easy to use and the graphics were a little cartoonish but I think they 
 fit the whole fable (make believe) story-line. The economic element added depth the the game and 
 made it that much better. If you really want to make money in the game find a cheap arms vendor 
 in the game and buy all his inventory. Then go to the castle and sell it back to the high price 
 vendors there. I alway had money in the game doing this. It will take some time for the cheap vendor 
 to re-stock his inventory but he will and you can keep doing it. Unfortunately there is nothing 
 left to buy and $4M is burning a hole in my pocket. 
  Have Fun,
  Jason 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bodeen80
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 21, 2009 12:26 am PT
Review:  I had been yearning for a good single player RPG in the style of old D & D games like Baldur's 
 Gate for quite some time. I didn't get anything like that out of Fable 2, but what I did get was 
 still a pleasant experience. 
  
  First off I'd like to say that the design in the game was great. It had a cartoon-like feel to 
 it without being kiddy and the environment immersed me in ways similar to WoW. One of the problems, 
 however, was the lack of variety when it came to clothing. Since there is no armor in this game 
 you chose what your character wears almost entirely based on what you want them to look like. With 
 this being said you would think they would have a little more of a selection. 
  
  The gameplay was interesting. You have three main types of powers; melee, ranged, and magic. You 
 level them up with experience orbs you gather in combat. What I found was that I used pretty much 
 only two or three of the magic powers over and over.... the rest were pretty much useless. The ease 
 of the combat in most situations took away from the need to strategically utilize any of the other 
 powers. 
  
  The story was a bit of a disapointment for me. Especially since I bought this game with the hopes 
 of atleast a few memorable moments. What you get is a fairly generic and watered down background 
 narrative that never really seems too important throughout the game.
  
  One major complaint I would have with this game is the load screens. Have we not gotten to the 
 point in gaming where we can avoid these non-stop load screens? After playing WoW for a few years 
 I felt like I was spending half the game waiting for the next area to load.
  
  Overall I would liken this game to Zelda more than anything. It's a great console experience and 
 not really for harcore RPG fans. But like Zelda I enjoyed every minute of it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Drumboy96
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 18, 2009 5:45 pm PT
Review:  To star off, this game is a very basic game yet robust and complicated at the same time, when you 
 first begin you are a simple child with a wooden sword but as you progress you become stronger 
 taller and more manly or womanly [depending on who you choose]
  In the game you get to choose basically your life. you can get married, have a kid, get jobs, [blacksmith, 
 bounty hunter, woodcutter etc..] , buy a house or houses, and buy real estate. you buy weapons 
 such as swords, hammers, guns, crossbows etc.. you can also dress youself and decorate your home. 
 As quests go there is the main story quests, and side quests like help a farmer defeat bandits 
 or find a certain stone/object. There are also spells wich you upgrade as you do quests and defeat 
 enemies, such as force push, or inferno wich lets you use fire. Then there is a good and evil side 
 wich means if you commit theft, murder, etc.. you get evil points and townsfolk will not think 
 highly of you, then when you do a good deed people like you more. This game also has great replay 
 value because of the side quests. There is also co-op online wich you basically just your friend 
 in his game and kick some bandit ass! finally there are expressions like flirtatous behavior, fun 
 behavieor, rude behavior etc.. wich effect you status in the town/towns. Well that's it for my 
 review I will try to write reviews more often in the future. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DeadlyPlatypus
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 18, 2009 3:11 pm PT
Review:  Lionhead's hit "Fable" was a roleplaying game that allowed you to choose your path. 
  
  Its sequel, Fable 2, is similar in many aspects. Like the first game, you start as a child who 
 is wronged and must aspire to be a hero. You also will face familiar foes (balverines, hobbes, 
 bandits) and bear familiar arms (swords, crossbows, axes) . The gameplay is very similar to the 
 original Fable's: it, too, can be beaten relatively quickly. 
  
  However, Fable 2 differs from its forerunner in many good ways. The graphics are up to date and 
 smooth, displaying serene visuals and beautiful landscapes. Since the game takes place 1000 years 
 after the original, there is now a wide assortment of primitive guns (flintlocks, clockworks, turrets, 
 or "blunderbusses", musket-shotguns) , and armor is a thing of the past. Albion has changed since 
 the first game, so you will find old places and people much different (Oakvale is a ghostly marsh 
 while Lady Grey is a divided corpse) . You can now play as a girl and have children; you can work 
 as a blacksmith or kill as an assassin.
  
  The world of Fable 2 is open and the quests will wait for you. If you are bored, you can simply 
 run off and flirt with women or dance in a crowd. Just don't expect it to last you as long as an 
 Elder Scrolls game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Repthe508
Rating: 6.5
Date: Feb 17, 2009 3:32 pm PT
Review:  Ok so I think we can all agree that the first Fable, and the expansion The Lost Chapters were innovative, 
 with its morality system and the ability to "shape" your character. However I believe we can all 
 agree that is was extremely short, easily beatable within 10 hours or less. Not including all the 
 time spent fooling around killing villagers which is always a blast. 
  
  Unfortunately, Fable 2 also has a very similar short storyline. If I was to hazard a guess, you 
 could probably play through the whole story in less than 10 hours again. Of course this doesn't 
 include all the time spent fooling around as well as doing all the other fun stuff in the fable 
 world. However this all becomes very bland, and if you played the first Fable, this is nothing 
 different. 
  
  When Peter Molyneux (spelling) first announced Fable 2, and its newer, more revolutionary aspects, 
 it really set the bar high for me. I assumed that along with the "redefining combat system" and 
 "surprise addition" ( the dog) they would make the obvious fixes to the lack of customizability, 
 and greatly expand the item base. 
  
  Unfortunately, they did neither.
  
  For a flagship RPG such as Fable, the item selection is measly. As for the weapon choices. You 
 have the standard, sword, mace, hammer, axe etc... and they come in either rusty, iron, steel or 
 master, and then each respective weapon type has its legendary weapon. I managed to get the best 
 weapon, the master hammer, before the halfway point in the game, and once you reach bloodstone, 
 you can augment it to make it even more powerful. This results in the master weapons being more 
 powerful than their counterparts, which results in a lack or a sense of progression, a key aspect 
 of Fable 2. To their credit, they did make basiclly every building in the game available for purchase, 
 which is pretty cool, but eventually you begin to amass wealth exponentially, so each purchase 
 means less and less, and you have no reason to spend time in the dwellings. And when you buy a 
 store, you cant suddenly get the items for free, but at a discount, nor can you control how they 
 operate, other then the raising of the prices based on a percentage. 
  
  The new combat system, nothing special. When I saw the demo video showing the bar fight scene, 
 I was psyched. It looked great how the characters interacted with the environment when fighting. 
 That does not exist in the game. I did not come across any situation where the combat differed 
 at all from the first game. Its all hack and slash, with a poorly done combo system based on the 
 rhythm of the music. As for the ranged combat system, basiclly the same as the first game. You 
 can choose to shoot by pressing the shoot button, which shoots more rapidly, or you can zoom if 
 you upgrade your skill, and if you upgrade further you can zoom further, and then you can target 
 individual parts of the body. In general, not bad by no means. 
  
  The magic system in this game: buzzkill. In the first game, it was as simple as holing down a button 
 and chain lightning would strike your opponents. In this game, the magic system blows. There are 
 like five or so tiers, and you can only choose one spell per slot. For example, say you upgraded 
 both the fireball spell and lightning spell to the second tier, you can only have one of those 
 as the 2nd tier spell, and say you have a different spell as the first tier one, first push for 
 example. The first tier spells are alright, they launch automatically, however they quickly become 
 to weak to handle the foes you face. And in order to cast more spells you need to charge them. 
 So you stand there, victim to attack, charging, first the first tier, and then the second before 
 you can launch it. Imagine having to launch a 5 tier spell, it takes forever to launch, and you 
 sustain heavy damage while waiting. Once you launch it tho its pretty fun to watch. Out of my multiple 
 play throughs, I died by far the most times with the mage, where as I never died with the warrior 
 class. Pwnage with mage = impossible. 
  
  Shaping your character in Fable 2 works just as well as it did in the first one, your character 
 changed according to how they act. In fable 2 you have the addition of being able to play as a 
 girl character, but that's basically the only choice you have. Even if you choose to shape your 
 character, itll still look exactly the same as someone elses very evil/good character. For example, 
 I made my character evil one time, and i kept to a specific dress type and I though I was being 
 cool and original by rocking red pants, not shirt black hair in dreds etc. Next thing I know, I'm 
 over my friends house and he has the exact same character. Thats because the character is just 
 a template made to be shaped. I wish lionhead included more character choices, like a black guy, 
 those racist bastards! lol jp...
  
  As for the story, its no COD 4 (which could be a movie imo) but w/e, i do like those portions where 
 you go away for long bits of time, and the world changes as ur away for years, thats pretty cool... the 
 first time... that was also in the first game, with the prison sequence, however they changed it 
 up a little bit this time. 
  
  I can't remember any more specific problems I have with the game, although im sure as soon as I 
 finish this ill remember...
  
  Overall, the game is fun no doubt about it, however it did not live up to the hipe that peter molyneux 
 created before the release. The game is worth playing (just not as a mage) at least once. I recommend 
 renting it, I for example, made a switch with my friend, Farcry for fable, im gonna try and get 
 that back from him soon.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: listerfiend21
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 17, 2009 12:12 pm PT
Review:  When i first got my hands on Fable 2, I was skeptical on the premise. First off you cant die, that 
 sounds stupid and too simple. Another problem i was expecting was that after the games main quest 
 that i would have nothing to do with interest. I am glad to say that i was wrong. This game is 
 a masterpiece.
  
  Fable 2 tales place a couple hundred years after the events of the first game. You play as the 
 hero, a man who experienced a horrible tragedy in his young life and is left alone with a blind 
 prophet who trains the hero to avenge the tragedy. In the old game ytou would go to the guild to 
 choose your quest, well the guild is no more. The heroes were no longer needed and the people got 
 rid of them. So now you visit the prophet at the remains of the guild to be updated but can now 
 choose your quest from anywhere. 
  
  The fighting mechanincs in this game are much smoother than in the previous game, with the addition 
 to new armor, swords, augments, and spells, you can killl your enemies with terror and even style. 
 You also can learn counters and parries in this game, which make your enemies flail in the air 
 like fish.
  
  The main quest is pretty short, being about 8 hours long, it is made up however in the amount of 
 things you can do after the game. There are many side missions to do as well as other things such 
 as, real estate, doing jobs, assasinations, bounty hunts, marriage and other things. This expands 
 the game to almost 100 hours of gameplay 
  
  The graphics in this game are well done as well, with good shine to everything and a more artistic 
 look to everyhting, i only wished there were more beautiful cutscenes in this game, the sound is 
 also good with the sounds of cutting down raiders and sheathing your sword, as well as the well 
 done soundtrack for the game that really puts you into the time and feel of the game. The voice 
 acting is good too with many laughs from the crazy people you encounter.
  
  The main point of this game is making decisions, and do you have tough ones, especially at the 
 end of the game, but theres also the little choices. To give the stuff to that guy or the other 
 guy, or to rob the barn or to protect the barn, all of these choices give you deifferent benefits 
 as in the first game, creating suspense and making up for the whole "not dying" thing.
  
  In all this game really suprised me and grew on me a third of the way through and im reall excited 
 for all of the DLC coming to this game and i hope they decide to grow on this franchise.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: AG_Pennypacker
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 17, 2009 9:40 pm PT
Review:  Lionhead studios, the creators of fable, fable lost chapters and fable 2 took all the good things 
 from fable 1 and removed of most of the bad things, added better things, and made fable 2. Like 
 in fable on there was so much loading and each area was well small but now in fable 2 the areas 
 are much larger and there is a significant drop in the amount of loading. fable 1 when it was released 
 was on of my favourite games i was always playing it so im not saying that its not worth playing 
 its excellent but fable 2 well it is the ultimate choice because of the excellent gameplay. In 
 fable 1 when you up a couple of health levels suddenly your player would be this huge guy out of 
 nothing and in fable 2 the fighting styles are better and the leveling process is better to but 
 if i could chose the better story line i would chose fable 1 thats why i gave fable 2 8.5 for excellent 
 gameplay but only a good stoy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Roszkowski
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 16, 2009 7:59 pm PT
Review:  If your into swords, magic, skill, character growth and making money every 5 minutes even if your 
 not on the console, this is a game you should pick up. Fable 2 starts off 500 years after the event's 
 of the first Fable. Its story lacks depth and alot of searching to deal with but in the end, it 
 gets more exciting and thriller till the end. The end... it's not one of the brightest but it sure 
 provides the character with 3 hefty choices. The continuation after the story is really, really 
 dull. Not alot of things to do but to hunt down Gargoyles, Demon Doors, Legendary Weapons, Castle 
 Fairfax and the Archeologist quest, your pretty much done the game. Honestly. Its combat system 
 feels totally original and free. It's one of the most satisfying combat system a game can achieve. 
 After hearing or seeing or dealing that last final shot, blow or spell, it just drives the players 
 into more action, making it a very, very fun combative experience. The leveling up system is brand 
 new but the amount needed to gain newer spells or improve your combat or skill levels is just dragging. 
 Finding experience is a royal pain. The Crucible seems to be the only answer at times but be sure 
 to drink some 5 star will, strength, skill potions. Great amount and you could easily get those four 
 hundred thousand plus skills. Overall, detail is great, action and combat is just thrill ride for 
 any and story is one story that the 360 will unleash!
  
  P. S-The feline companion of your's is cute and all... but he just lacks knowledge so at times... don't 
 get too angry at him ;P 
::::::

::::::
UserName: InspiringTouch
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 16, 2009 7:02 am PT
Review:  Fable 2 was a highly awaited game to follow the brilliant and orignal Fable on Xbox. This Xbox 
 360 exclusive is a rich and beautiful role playing game and will keep you playing for hours on 
 end.
  
  Fable 2 is set in the world of Albien, a rich and beautiful world much like that of most RPG's 
 of this type, the world isn't overly big but its big enough to satisfie all your exploring needs. 
 This world is filled with many different towns and areas which can be fast travelled too from the 
 menu after being found. You can walk to each of these areas and there not overly big that it will 
 take that long either. Each is different in its own way, Bowerstone is the tipical trade and living 
 town, almost like the capital with the big castles and pubs etc, Oakville is the lovely countryside 
 town that hosts temples and fields of beautiful trees and lush grass etc. One of the coolest thing 
 in Fable 2 is that nearly every building and eye sight can be bought and made part of your empire, 
 even the castle for you to live in. The world also hosts 50 gargoles to shoot and 50 silver keys 
 too find as well as hidden chests and demon doors all around the place, so its a very deep and 
 well designed world.
  
  The gameplay is also fun although somewhat repetative. You'll have 3 main powers, strengh, skill 
 and will. Each power will be asigned to a button and you'll spend most of the game either bashing 
 your favourite power or mixing them up. You can upgrade these powers with alot of effect, for example 
 upgrading skill makes you grow taller and upgrading will makes you grow blue mage lines. You'll 
 have about 8 different spells in the mage department and a number of different weapons to choose 
 from, even some legendary ones. You cannot talk on the game but rather communicate with expressions, 
 you'll earn or learn different expressions throughout the game and each more powerful, this is 
 something I felt was a step back in role playing games. I'd trade in the expression wheel for good 
 old dialect anyday, but some might like it.
  
  The games structure and story is set around Heros, You are a hero and you must find the other 3, 
 all different characters in there own way. The story is somewhat intresting and can be fun to play 
 but its over in a flash and although theres alot of sidequests and jobs to do, you do expect more 
 from a main storyline. 
  
  The downloadable content is also pretty fun, Knots Island. You set about fixing the weather system 
 for this tiny Island far away, yes its tiny but can be rewarding, its worth the microsoft points 
 and prelongs in adventure.
  By far the best thing about Fable 2 is the outcome of your choices, each choice you makie will 
 either earn you good points or bad points and each point will change your world in alittle way 
 or even a big way sometimes. Dark characters will be reflected in a dark gloomy world with no law 
 or order and light characters will have a lush and beautiful world too explore. This is an orignal 
 and nice feature as it makes replay value very good.
  
  In all Fable 2 is a big adventure and you'll be playing well past your moneys worth for a good 
 number of hours and although the storys short its packed with other things to do and beautiful 
 places to see. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XileLord
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 15, 2009 1:45 am PT
Review:  The fable series has always been hyped to the absolute extreme by its developers and sold to the 
 public as supposedly being "Revolutionary" but unfortunately that's where this game fails. You 
 will soon find after entering the world of Albion that everything promised isn't as great as it 
 seems. You're dog does follow you around but the connection you build with him really isn't that 
 great and his barking can get really annoying not to mention when in gameplay you won't find yourself 
 noticing him all that much. Hes good for leading you to treasure and other secret things but it 
 isn't exactly revolutionary to have him around. 
  
  Another disappointing feature you will find about Fable II is its lack of armor and weapons. While 
 there is weapons in the game, there isn't a big variety nor is there many weapons to find or buy. 
 You will find yourself going through the game and changing your melee and ranged weapons about 
 three to four times before beating the game. 
  
  You can buy, find and earn a good amount of clothing to wear that contribute to how people perceive 
 you but you will find many of the clothing that makes you attractive looking or evil to the people 
 in game actually can look dumb to the person playing the character. Peter also promised something 
 you don't see much in video games these days. Sexual intercourse and children that can come from 
 it. You can marry, cheat, kill your wife but the main problem is the connection you build with 
 the family you make isn't really different then the connection you make with people outside of 
 your family. Building a relationship with somebody is also very weak when all you have to do is 
 press a few buttons on the D pad a couple hundred times to get them to marry you or like you. 
 
  
  In fable you are either hated or liked both of which are really annoying. Imagine EVERYWHERE you 
 walk you hear the same things over and over and over again from people. Not to mention the lack 
 of character models. How fun is it to marry somebody and start a family with them and then see 
 someone that LOOKS exactly like them just with another name when you go out into the market. 
 
  
  This game had a lot of potential to be what peter wanted it to be and if more time was spent into 
 it and more things added and fixed it would have been amazing. Not to mention the loading screens...30-45 
 seconds every time you leave the area are a pain in the rear.
  
  Combat is fluid and fun and abilities are fun to level up but after the main story there isn't 
 much to do but side quests and earning gold. 
  
  This game makes for a great rental but i don't suggest buying it unless you are a hardcore fable 
 fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fubbal
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 14, 2009 4:37 pm PT
Review:  Ok This game would have gotten a possible higher score and it did at first. Then came a random and 
 constant freezing that put a huge damper on the fun factor. I had to call Microsoft and go through 
 some steps and finally got it to work but lost all my saved data. I had to start over and man was 
 I ticked. I thought you only had to go through stuff like this on a PC. It works way better but has 
 still froze up on me a few times. Non the less it was way more bearable. I finally beat the game. 
 
  
  
  Ok that aside if you can get it to work right you will have a blast playing it. This is one of those 
 games that you can play through several times and have fun doing so as long as you don't have technical 
 issues doing so. The graphics are obviously way better as are the more traversable inviroments. Still 
 it can be short if you just fly through the main quest. If you enjoy your self and do some side 
 quest you can get at least 30 hours or more of play time each go play through. From child hood to 
 the end this game will keep you entertained. Another issue I have with this game is the combat 
 doesn't seem as fluid as the first game and theres seems to be a slight menu lag when your going 
 through your menu's. The menu lag is not really even a problem but I wish they could have made the 
 combat a little better. All in all the controls are pretty solid. The sound is really good. The voices 
 and sounds help to add a little more atmosphere to the game, which is a big plus.
  
  
  So as long as you don't have technical issues you should get some real enjoyment out of this game 
 but remember buy at your own risk. From fighting thag to exploring bowerstone to fighting and exploring 
 gobs of enemies and location's fable 2 is a great game but beware of the freeze! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thatSTERLINkid
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 13, 2009 8:12 pm PT
Review:  The Good:
  ~The graphics (for gameplay) are pretty good, though they look remotely close to its predecessor 
 on the Xbox... Cut-scenes on the other hand look amazing, and though they are pretty short, they 
 stand out
  
  ~The controls are very easy to remember and get use to, nothing more difficult than LT to lock 
 on, Y to shoot, X to melee, and holding A to sprint.
  
  ~The storyline is one of the most interesting stories I have ever played, and though its not the 
 best, its great and could possibly keep all kinds of gamer playing for hours.
  
  ~There are over 50 different quests to do aside from the main story, which gives the player a pretty 
 good amount of playtime.
  
  ~Along with the quests, are jobs, which give the player a certain amount of money and skill, it 
 is very helpful once the job is repeated a few times. With enough patience, anyone can make at 
 least 1 million gold and the 5 star job acheivement in less than an hour.
  
  ~The environments in the game are very detailed, and all different in their own ways, there is 
 barely any repeated visual in the world of Albion.
  
  ~Your character (much like the first Fable) can change his OR her physical appearance based on 
 what your actions are. Purity (Good) gets you a Halo above your head as you progress, as well respect 
 from almost everyone... While Corruption (Evil) gives you pale skin, devil horns, and Red to Green 
 eyes.
  
  ~The Dog is a great add to the game, and is very helpful during your adventure. Helping you find 
 treasure, assisting you in battle, and even willing to play a game of fetch or perform.
  
  
  The Bad:
  ~The Co-op, though a great addition, was very confusing... mostly this was due 
 to the camera angle and distance a player could be from their "assistant".
  
  ~Every time you're knocked out you receive a scar, the thing about those scars is the fact that 
 they do NOT go away, unless you buy the expansion pack which has a potion that gets rid of them, 
 or getting to the last part of the game.
  
  Overall the game is pretty awesome, well worth at least a rental, and if your interested in buying 
 it, this game will last you quite some time. 8/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: misterhumbug
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 13, 2009 5:05 pm PT
Review:  I'm a big fan of RPGs. It's really my favorite kind of game. I was always curious about Fable, 
 but I didn't have an XBox, so I just forgot about. But then I got an XBox. This was the first game 
 I bought for the XBox, and it didn't disappoint!
  
  First let me say that, as much as I enjoyed the game, it certainly wasn't perfect. After playing 
 a sandbox-style as expansive as Fallout 3, Fable 2 took some getting used to. However, they really 
 are two very different games. Fable 2 is a lushly painted, lively fantasy world full of humor, 
 lust, and greed, all wrapped up in the swaddling-cloth of epic adventure. You are placed in the 
 role of the nameless Hero, and you are tasked with freeing Albion from the dangerous iron-fist 
 of Lucien, and madman chasing after ancient black magic. Along the way you must enlist other Heroes 
 (note the capital "h") to join your cause. Along the way you will seduce townsfolk, sleep around, 
 gamble, work as a blacksmith, get married, have children, kill countless villains, and save countless 
 innocents.
  
  I was actually surprised at the complexity of certain aspects of the game. A lot of thought was 
 put into how the economy works, and a town can prosper or suffer depending on how much money you 
 inject into the local economy, how kind a landlord you are, and how much people like you. There 
 is an incredible emphasis on interpersonal relationships, too, allowing a surprising level of variation 
 from NPC to NPC. I thought it rather clever how your character's physical appearance can change 
 based on how corrupt/pure or evil/good you play, right down to the halo of light that hovers over 
 your noggin when you play the chosen one.
  
  There were a couple of things about the game that bugged the heck out of me, though. The inventory 
 management system is extremely irritating, forcing you to navigate through a whole menu for every 
 potion drunk or book read. The lack of any real map was somewhat bothersome, too, because I was 
 never really able to establish a sense of "place" anywhere I went, each location really being unconnected 
 to every other location, except through dint of a load screen. Also, the fact that your "experience" 
 earned throughout the game is in the form of little bubbles of light that you actually have to 
 actively collect is kind of off-putting. It's my experience, I worked for it, now why do I also 
 need to pick it up!? Can't I just HAVE it?
  
  Other than those mechanical gripes, however, I found Fable 2 to be a very enjoyable gaming experience. 
 I even played through the Knothole Island DLC, which didn't add as much as I had hoped for the 
 price, but was still a fun add-on. I do recommend Fable 2 to any RPG-lover, and I look forward 
 to playing future sequels to this interesting and engaging game world. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Booze_messiah
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 13, 2009 9:03 am PT
Review:  First things first, I enjoyed the first one and was really looking forward to the sequel, but alas 
 was overall disappointed. When you start out the game it is kind of fun, the graphics are good 
 you have a dog and the story is pretty interesting. However, you soon find out the battles are 
 repetitive and insanely easy. The weapons and clothing are pretty limited in selection which takes 
 away from customization of you character. The enemies you fight get pretty repetitious as well, 
 for a game with this much potential a better variety would have helped quite a bit. The option 
 of buying real estate is a pretty neat concept with the exception of not having much to spend your 
 money on. The impressions NPC's have of you really don't affect the game that much and trying to 
 get them to like or dislike you is really pointless unless you are trying to get a gift from one. 
 
  Overall this game has some very good graphics, a solid storyline, is somewhat fun in that "Golden 
 Axe" kinda combat way, and has some pretty neat concepts in the other parts of the game, but isn't 
 all it is cracked up to be. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShadowDragon720
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 12, 2009 12:40 pm PT
Review:  Yes, in this sequel to Fable you get an awesome dog that helps you with a variety of quests. Fortunately, 
 though, there are much more excelling things about this phenomenal game.
  
  The story is great. You start off as a child and collect five gold coins to buy a music box that 
 is magical and it can grant you any wish. Next thing ya know, BAM! You get warped 10 years or so 
 into the future and you get to expirirence the full awesomeness of Albion. With your trusty dog 
 you get to complete a plethora of quests that are all equally enjoying. There are also so many 
 side quests, it's just I can't count how much. There are quests from buying houses and getting 
 a sex-changing potion to quests where you have to command a ship and get 15000 gold in the end. 
 It's engaging and I think it's very enjoyable. You can buy your own house, and marry a wife. There's 
 also been a Knothole Island game pack.
  
  There's also a coop option where you get to play with your friend, but it's not much since you 
 can't control your own camera and you can't bring in your own character to play; only a pre-made 
 one. 
  
  I really like this game and low reviews don't do it justice. This is a good game. I give it a 9.5 
 score. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Algaeisgreat
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 12, 2009 12:19 pm PT
Review:  I was looking forward to this after playing the original.
  
  You will be pleased to know it is longer than the first one, the gameworld is a decent size with 
 lots of treasure hidey-holes.
  If you only play through the main game, it will be a short game unfortunately, as it is frighteningly 
 easy- you can't actually 'die' in the game. Also, aside from choosing good or evil, the game is 
 pretty linear.
  
  The game has a good selection of side quests, and playing around with families, jobs and appearances 
 can be fun, and I think the achievements are well-balanced in terms of 'get-a-bility'. I enjoyed 
 the game more after getting the main story out the way, and offers great replay value on good and 
 evil. The humour throughout is very enjoyable - I particularly enjoyed the taunting of the scottish 
 gargoyles (Hie yoo ya smelly bampot, don't poke yourself in the eye with yer crossbow!)
  
  Lots of glitches can become annoying and sluggish menus frustrating, and I personally found points 
 in the storyline frustrating and a bit pointless.
  
  Overall, a very enjoyable game, and I'm on my second play-through and still playing every day.
 
  
  To sum up, if you enjoy your RPGs and are a bit of completist, this game is a must. If you are 
 looking for some meaty combat and can't be bothered with exploring nooks and crannies, go and buy 
 Halo. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: justinrscott
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 12, 2009 6:26 am PT
Review:  I finished the main story line in about twenty hours, and played for about another ten after that 
 to finish all the optional quests that were available. I didn't really pursue the Gamerpoints, 
 but I did finish with 760. The main story gives you 300, and acquiring $2.5MM in property gives 
 you another 100. The rest was just hit and miss stuff you accomplish during the game.
  
  I also started over, so that I could see how the game played from the other alignment's perspective 
 without effecting my main character. I enjoyed it all over again. It was quite entertaining turning 
 off the safety and running through town swinging my axe. LOL
  
  I am now ready for the download content! SPOILER ALERT! Since I lost my dog in the main storyline, 
 I am looking forward to getting it back in the expansion. I hear I have to sacrifice a human to 
 get it though. It is a shame someone must die for my dog to come back, but such is the way of the 
 world. ROFL 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chikinstien
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 11, 2009 11:57 pm PT
Review:  I loved Fable. It was tied with TES: Morrowind for my favorite RPG. And now, Fable II blows away 
 any notions of Morrowind being equal like... well, like wind. The fighting system is near-seamless, 
 the dog's AI i astounding, and the story line is *gasp* A STORY LINE!
  
  My only problem with the game is that it still isn't really an open world. Yes, you can go anywhere, 
 any time. However, you have to spend many many loading screens to do so. Also, the little Job mini 
 games aren't very exciting, and yet still seem to be the only sure way to get money. These facts 
 combined with cut scenes that don't allow me to skip ahead took off a full point, putting this 
 amazingly thought out game at 9/10, as opposed to the 10 I THOUGHT I was going to get. 
  
  Still, over all, this is an amazing game, sure to please old fans and the next generation of RPGers 
 alike. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Phoenix32623
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 10, 2009 7:54 pm PT
Review:  before i start, let me make clear that I have NOT played Fallout 3.... nor do I plan to.
  
  Fable 1 was an amazing game for me, it was the one game that i found truly evolving and responding 
 to my moral actions, unlike games such as KOTOR. It changed the way i played RPGs and i thought 
 i could never get over i. Until now, Fable 2 is a fantastic RPG, with a wonderful story, though 
 it is short and kind of weak , but it is not the story that drags me into this game, so much the 
 combat... it provides three specialties- strength ( melee) , skill (ranged) , and Will (magic) which 
 alone can be dull or level, but together, in the right sequence, can form fluid and beautiful combat.
 
  
  This game prides itself on its morals (or lack there of) , as opposed to the previous installment, 
 Fable 2 has divided alignment into 2 sections, one that weighs your general moral, and another 
 that weighs your purity. This new bar changes your appearance to tailor to your level of purity/ 
 corruption, and advances by means of how your character goes about business and personal matters.
 
  
  all in all, fable 2 is a fantastic RPG with (In my opinion) the best game play I have played in 
 years. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MaxieWaxie
Rating: 5.5
Date: Feb 10, 2009 3:59 pm PT
Review:  I personally found out about this game about 2 years before it even came out. I heard about it 
 and played Fable I, just to see how potentially good of an RPG game this could be. I was quite 
 satisfied with the first one, and was anticipating that the second would even be better, and perhaps 
 even match up to Oblivion.
  What a huge disappointment this was. There were numerous bugs, huge glitches, rough storyline, 
 strict spell system, limited weapons, armors, and items. So it pretty obvious this game was either 
 rushed or Lionhead is just plain out of date. And they didn't even presented what they promise. 
 The world isn't all that explorable, and it almost just like Fable 1. The spells system isnt all 
 that complex, and was VERY basic and just plain unoriginal. There were only a couple items, very 
 few armors and weapons. The "buy whatever you see" is still true, but it doesnt affect your gaming 
 much other than pooling you huge cash. But those cash are worthless if you got NOTHING to spend 
 it on. The variety of enemies is a joke, varying in about a few dozens. The world, again, is small 
 so it doesnt take long to get bore. Nothing in this game make it "Best RPG of the Year" material. 
 I never play and rate a game below a 7, but this is just a shame. I shouldnt even put this in the 
 same league as Oblivion aka the real "Best RPG of the Year".
  
  Here's the breakdown of the game: (Based on Gamestop grading area)
  Challenge 
  1/10
  Controls 
 
  9/10
  Graphics/Animation 
  9/10
  Interface 
  5/10
  Responsiveness 
  3/10
  Sound 
  7/10
  Storyline 
  1/10
  Complexity 
  0/10
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: TTDog
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 10, 2009 2:20 pm PT
Review:  The original Fable suffered in that the developers were very quick to boast of all the features 
 they planned to include in the game but which then failed to appear as, one by one, they were 
 dropped as the Xbox was simply not powerful enough to cope with the full Molyneux vision.
  
  I don't particularly think the 360 can handle everything he wants to include either, but that 
 just gives me an excuse to buy Fable 3 and Fable 4 when they eventually appear and we get closer 
 and closer to playing the game he desperately wants to give us.
  
  Fable 2 plays as a cross between Grand Theft Auto and Oblivion, you can follow the main plot and 
 be done with the game inside a day, but you can also spend days just fooling around with side quests 
 and money generating schemes to splash out on clothing, property and getting drunk.
  
  It's presented in a very GTA manner, includes a nice amount of joke material and there are various 
 collectables to hunt down, in this case Silver Keys to unlock treasure chests and Gargoyles to 
 shoot instead of Pigeons, its easier to find the Gargoyles sometimes as they just can't help 
 but insult you as you run past.
  
  Visually the game is stunning, the towns, forests and caves have obviously had a lot of care and 
 attention lavished on them, they don't repeat designs and the different areas of the game are varied 
 enough that you won't get lost, if you do you can always rely on the glowing trail to take you 
 to your selected destination or you can simply cheat and fast travel your way home.
  
  While combat could become repetitive its only really limited by your imagination and flair for 
 excitement, you could just stand back and hammer away at the Y button to launch Long-Ranged attacks 
 but where's the fun in that, nothing feels better than knocking an enemy flying with a well timed 
 thrust of your sword or forcing your opponent over the edge of a cliff with a well aimed spell 
 the only way you'll get bored is that you simply can't be bothered to experiment with new ideas 
 or spells, and you can't really blame the game for that although some already have.
  
  Like so many other games around you are presented with the chance to take different moral stands 
 during the game you can free the slaves, or you can entrap more of them but unlike other games 
 Fable 2 changes more dramatically dependant on your decisions, not only does your appearance change 
 but also that of your dog, a constant companion who will follow you to the end of the earth regardless 
 of how you treat him.
  
  Nor is the game over when the main quest has been completed, you're free to continue your life, 
 completing side quests, committing bigamy, pulling pints down the pub or just trying to better 
 your record in The Crucible.
  
  Fable 2 is a game that is limited only by your imagination, if you haven't got the smarts to think 
 of something to do to amuse yourself in Albion then you probably shouldn't have bought it in the 
 first place if you have got some brains about you you'll have already bought it.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: the8thsin
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 10, 2009 4:35 am PT
Review:  Albion is a fantastic world, a constantly changing living environment where your decisions will 
 ripple through the society. They way you act will envoke a reaction good or bad its up to you and 
 people will in turn react if you murder, pillage and destroy then people will run - children screaming 
 murder with men and women quivering in fear. On the other hand you can walk the path of light and 
 be followed, loved and praise by all of albion.
  Fable's greatest strength is also its biggest flaw - You can do almost anythying - by why would 
 you want too?
  During my time with the game I found that bar the odd gift from the wives in my life - I was a 
 biggamist - and watching my 2 sons grow up to be needy little **** - never happy - that there was 
 ultimately no point in getting married.
  You recieve renown and 'good points' but you can get both of these other ways - through donations 
 or showing trophies.
  Much in the same way that GTA 4 made us run around the city looking after people we didnt giva 
 a **** about to feel some kind of connection? Anyway to sum it all up look below. 
  
  Pros +
  
  A beautiful Open World if you let it
  Solid Compact Combat
  Free Roaming and 
 the ability to change Albion as you see fit
  Well driven story
  Excellent pace
  A staggering amount to do
  Some fantastic charters 
  
  Cons 
  
  Some fights can get 
 lag almost to a stand still
  Story is pretty short taking approx 8  10 hours
  No challenge
  Fights can get repetitive due to the lack of different enemies
  An evolution 
 not a revolution
  Cosmetic changes are few and far between
  
  What we would change
  
  A couple of epic moments would have been nice
  Dragons, we need dragons
  More clothing items
 
  Different mobs
  A steeper difficulty curve would have been nice
  
  Presentation 8/10
  Sound 8/10
  Game play 8/10
  Depth 9/10
  Story 8/10
  
  OVERALL 8/10
  
  thankyou for 
 reading 
::::::

::::::
UserName: manhunt92
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 7, 2009 10:18 am PT
Review:  The Good.
  - Beautiful graphics, mixed with excellent sound.
  - A LOT to do.
  - Your decision's consequences will sometimes surprise you.
  
  The Bad
  - Super short story 
 in which, as Gamespot saidCharacters lack depth"
  - Some aspects (Thin-Fat, Good-Evil) doesn't seem well balanced
  - Lousy and small map.
  
 
  I've waited some time to make this review because Fable II is a game that needs to be explored 
 fully to be able to write about it. I've experienced both sides of the game. Don't get me wrong, 
 though; Fable 2 isn't limited to Good and Evil. You can be a good character while acting corrupt, 
 or a bad character but pure at the same time. There are just hundreds of combinations you can try.
 
  
  For example, you can be a good, thin, attractive and corrupt character. Or a bad, fat ugly corrupt 
 character. Or you can just simply roll wherever you go and take what gets to you. But somehow this 
 system isn't that perfect when you really look at it. For example I got my horns and red eyes in 
 just a few hours
  after beginning my Evil character while being Good was harder in any ways, I think I only got my 
 halo after I finished the main story. Another example could be thin and fat, this system as the 
 others is represented by points, eating meat or pies, for example will give you fat points (some 
 5, 10, 15, or 20) and some will on the other hand make disappear those (vegetables) . This is where 
 the problem is, while almost every food on the game gives from 5 to 20 fat points, only 4 will 
 rest them, and I don't mean -20 or -15, no I mean -5 only.
  
  The combat system is very like its predecessor but has improved in some aspects. Develop your hero 
 to be super fast, tall and accurate with pistols (skill) , to be a giant muscular monster that will 
 exterminate everything with his sword (strengh) , to be a master of the forces of magic where he 
 will see his veins turn blue and kill his enemies by only moving his hands (will) , or simply by 
 balancing these 3 aspects of combat. This gives you a lot of options to custom your hero as you 
 please.
  
  Talking in general about the game, you can really see that Albion is alive and it's all for you. 
 The economy is real here, and you can affect a city's by buying in the stores, or selling your 
 things. Not only that, you can become a business man by buying the actual store and increasing 
 or decreasing its prices. Keep an eye on sells, because they don't last forever. Not only stores 
 you can buy, but houses too, simply to rent them or to move. Meet a girl, get married, have a child, 
 raise a family. Meet two girls, get married with the two, have two childs, raise two families, 
 where I'm getting? 
  
  The main story it's where Fable II tunrs dark, If you where expecting an envolving story with complex 
 characters and that will keep you entertained more tim other thing you were wrong. It isn't that 
 bad, but it's way WAY too short, there's many things that aren't explained at all and it leaves 
 you wanting more... 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: horrorboy
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 9, 2009 12:37 pm PT
Review:  I had a really high hope for Fable II after seeing numerous trailers and playthroughs, and I thought 
 that it would outlive the first one. When it came out though, much of that hype was lost due to 
 the fact that the game was too short or too easy and all of the low scores that it received from 
 critics. 
  
  After X-Play awarded it with Game of the Year I decided to pick it up and give it a try. I played 
 it for a total of about an hour, since I was so into Fallout 3. After beating that I decided to 
 finally sit down and play Fable II, and I'm glad I made that decision.
  
  Fable II takes place in Albion again, but this time EVERYTHING looks different from the town of 
 Bowerstone which has sprawling houses atop a hill and a gigantic castle. You're able to make a 
 forever lasting decision at the beginning whether to help the criminals take the town or help the 
 sheriff bring them all to jail, and your decision determines how people see in you and what the 
 town turns out to look like. As in playing evil, it will be a lot darker with more criminals walking 
 around, as if you're good then it will be nice and pretty. Fable II has a few lasting decisions 
 but most are spread apart and take awhile to get to.
  
  The combat in Fable II has improved dramatically from the stiff weird movements of the first, which 
 changes to fast quick pacing melee fighting with the ability to change to a gun or magic in a button 
 click. The leveling up system is the same as in the first, such as leveling up your physique or 
 one of your many spells or how quick you can swing your sword or hammer. 
  
  The melee weapons are the same as the first but now the ranged weapons have changed from bows to 
 guns, such as rifles and pistols. There are a few crossbows you can still get but those have no 
 match to the power of the guns. 
  
  Finally now you can have your character swim and run faster instead of power walking like in the 
 first, making it a lot easier to get around to places, especially if you're trying to get there 
 in a hurry. The world of Albion has grown a lot, and is about 8 times the size of the original, 
 giving a lot of replayability to try and find all of the places. There are a ton of things to collect 
 or destroy from Silver Keys to shooting Gargoyle statues. 
  
  The storyline is average as you try to avenge a death of someone by hunting down the person that 
 did it, and you can foreshadow most of the things that come sooner or later along your progress 
 in the game. One of the major flaws in this game is that the main quest will only take you about 
 8 hours to beat if you just simply rush through it and not stop to do any of the sidequests or 
 to find any of the collectibles, unlike the 15+ hour quest in the first Fable.
  
  The alignment from good to evil is still here and will also change your appearance from a halo 
 to horns. The canine companion is one of the big highlights as he can help you find treasure, and 
 his appearance also changes as your alignment changes as well. You can customize your character 
 with the many clothing items in the game and you can also make him fat or slim by eating too much 
 food or by eating celery, also which will depend if you are attractive or ugly. You can also get 
 married and have a child which grows up during the years and will like you or dislike you depending 
 on how long you are away from home. There are many crimes that you can commit in Fable II from 
 stealing to adultery, it's all here. 
  
  There are a few small flaws in this game. Some of the character animation is extremely shift especially 
 when they fall on the ground after they die. Sometimes the friendly A. I. can be extremely dumb 
 and not help you fight in a battle against a dozen enemies, and instead just stand there and watch 
 you. It is also extremely easy to make money because of the easy quests and jobs that you can partake 
 in. 
  
  Fable II lived up to most of the hype that I was expecting of it, and I'm glad that it turned out 
 to be superb. I hope that Lionhead will make a 3rd and have it be even better. A very fun and rewarding 
 gaming experience if you enjoy the first one. A 9 out of 10.
  
  -horrorboy 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GreySeven
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 9, 2009 11:07 am PT
Review:  Fable 2 had been on my wanted list since I first heard of its announcement. I wasn't able to pick 
 it up until Christmas time and I had to wait until mid-January to play it, but it was worth it! 
 
  
  The thing I like best about Fable 2 is that it's made of simple thing but you can get sucked into 
 the simple things for a long time. The main story, I should mention, is really short. Really short. 
 However all the things around the main story can take hours to complete and indulge in like buying 
 out property, working for a living, completing repeatable quests, finding gargoyles, finding silver 
 keys, screwing with the villagers, making economies better, breaking economies, finding hidden 
 dungeons, and finishing out side quests that have a long term effect on your story.
  
  The controls are easy to learn and intuitive after only a short period of time. Slashing, shooting, 
 and throwing around a spell or two are very simple tasks to manage. 
  
  The world is amazing and wonderfully lit and designed. The characters are hilarious in what they 
 say and do and the voice acting is phenomenal. The ability to interact with the environment, dive 
 into water, jump a wall, and break open a false wall make the game even more interactive. 
  
  The main plot, though very short, is deep and interesting but just like the original Fable 
 game it's the side plots that really make the story for your character anyway. This is something 
 Fable 2 does quite well.
  
  However, there are some disappointing aspects to this game which I had hoped dearly that they would 
 have remedied. For one thing, the character models are pretty damn generic when it comes down to 
 their foundations. Yes, Fable 2 does provide the means for you to mix and match clothing, however 
 no matter what hairstyle or beard or whatever you pick, your face looks the same as any other hero 
 in any other world. And, if you want to max out all aspects of your hero in the game, your hero, 
 like everyone elses, will become a huge hulking individual that's ten feet tall and covered in 
 Will lines. Traits are directly related to the aspects that you level up and there's no choice 
 in the matter. 
  
  In some respects, the character design for the NPC heroes are way more appealing than the player's 
 hero itself. i wished many times that Could have a shirt like Garth wore with scrolls and vials 
 stuck all over it. I even wanted the hat that the alchemists wore because of the neat goggles. 
 Or a deer skull helmet like the bandits. Nope...
  
  Also, despite a larger verity of weapons, I was personally disappointed that EVERYTHING is sheathed 
 on your hero's back AGAIN. Yes, it looks cool and solves some clipping problems, but on smaller 
 characters that are pure Will users, a melee and ranger weapon crowding on their backs looks kinda 
 ridiculous.... and you ALWAYS have to one kind of both weapons equipped at all times. There's no 
 way around it. I know this is a small thing, but really I was hoping for a fix here. 
  
  The first time I played the game through, one of many times, I played as a mainly ranged character. 
 Eventually I found a legendary pistol, a clockwork pistol called the Red Dragon, and absolutely 
 owned everything from there on. With a little bit of skill in avoiding ranged counter attacks, 
 I hardly took any damage at all and never needed a resurrection vial. Melee became a little more 
 difficult to overcome because this character needed to get in the middle of everything to do the 
 most damage. Will use is based entirely on how much damage you can take while charging spells to 
 an appropriate level. So my advice for new players: ranged - easy mode, melee - medium mode, will 
 - hard mode. It evens out though. 
  
  It is very easy to get sucked into this game and advance your character through the story losing 
 track of time IRL. It's also a game with a lot of reply value because, fundamentally, you will 
 want to make all your choices differently at the end to see what the world would be like. 
  
  If you're into action RPGs or are a Fable fan, even a LionHead fan, I recommend dropping the 
 cash for a copy of this to own. Renting is not enough. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blue4avenger
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 9, 2009 9:15 am PT
Review:  My adventure in Albion might not have lasted that long, but it did make an impression and the hours 
 that I spent in it with my hero were more than pleasant and will, in contrast to so many other 
 games being released now, not quickly be forgotten. Maybe you noticed that I was talking about 
 'my hero'? These are no empty words this time. Your character can be configured exactly so that 
 he or she becomes how you want to behave in a game. The great secret is that this is not done with 
 dry stats or sliders that determine the size of your nose, but with your behaviour in Fable 2. 
 
  
  If you want to be a cruel bastard, that's perfectly possible! Throwing people out of their houses 
 to make them pay exorbitant rent, entertaining several whores at the same time and cheating on 
 your wife with them, eat until you become fat or kill rabbits for fun and a bit later disturb a 
 lovely scene with farts to kill someone in cold blood after that? Be my guest! Everything is possible 
 and you will not be punished for it. You will only have to live with the consequences. Your appearance 
 changes and people run away from you, and of course there's the influence of your decisions on 
 the world. People who prefer being the good guy are rewarded in another way, but whatever way you 
 choose, you will never have the impression that you are sent in a certain direction by the makers 
 of the game. 
  
  How many games manage to display this kind of charm? The world is ready for your rule, and it is 
 a beautiful, interesting world. The setting looks fantastic, both on technical and artistic level, 
 and you really feel like being in a fairy tale in which your play the main part. This feeling is 
 among other things reinforced by the original and enchanting (or when needed frightening soundtrack 
 and the excellent voice acting that finally is not limited to some grumbling Americans or Japanese 
 teenage girls reaching puberty. The many quests also help to bring the world to life and are one 
 by one original, partly original, or at least provided with funny, surprising characters with their 
 own background or story. No simple back and forth quests here, because in return for less quantity, 
 quality is given. The only negative point that we could think of, is that the main story perhaps 
 could have been somewhat more epic, but in the end that is hair splitting. 
  
  Unfortunately all these pretty things are a bit disturbed by the completely useless map and the 
 many loading times between areas. The fact that you can immediately revisit areas where you have 
 been before can come in handy, but we would have preferred a seamless environment in which the 
 travelling was slightly more pleasant. It all looks wonderful, and the glowing breadcrumb trail 
 that leads to the next location in the active quest is a good find, but you never get the feeling 
 that the many interesting areas form one big whole. What a pity! Having a dog is by the way the 
 perfect counterpart to the breadcrumb trail: now and then he lures you away from known paths to 
 discover unknown territory. Also, he will bark to point you to hidden treasures or enemies. 
  
  Those enemies should by the way have been provided with more variation. Bosses are rare and 
 they all have to be dealt with the same way and also the more occurring opponents are based on 
 only ten or so models. Admitted, they are designed and brought to life in an inspired way. Fighting 
 is done in three ways: shooting, melee or using magic. Simple in the beginning (one button, for 
 instance the A-button for melee, is everything you need) , but you can later, by gaining experience, 
 unlock more possibilities. Let me tell you that it became only just not too boring by the end of 
 the game and that the more advanced possibilities, especially concerning melee, always remained 
 a bit vague and thus did not give the amount of satisfaction they could have given. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ivory_soul
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 9, 2009 4:12 am PT
Review:  The Good: Gorgeous presentation with an engaging story, lots more to do, your dog is a great companion, 
 you can't die!
  
  The Bad: Even though there's more to do it's very tedious, story is still too short, light on the 
 RPG elements
  
  Fable II is another Western RPG that really tries to use a lot of action mixed with RPG elements 
 and tagging a good story in it. Fable was a big deal when it came out because it was one of the 
 few games that let you choose to be good or evil with every single task they threw out at you. 
 Everything you did affected how the game turned out and these included things from terrorizing 
 towns with crude expressions to giving money to a church. Fable II continues this is tons of things 
 for you to do and tons of way to go about doing so. When you start the game out your introduced 
 to the story and you get to choose your main character; whether it be a boy or a girl is your choice. 
 As a child you go about performing small tasks to get used to the idea of how to play the game. 
 These range from finding things for people to helping children fend off bullies. This is also a 
 crucial point in the game for heading down your good or evil path. You can choose to give arrest 
 warrants that you find to the sheriff or give them to the criminals for a reward.
  
  The whole game evolves like this and it really makes an impact later on. Once you get the hang 
 of the game you can equip better weapons, buy food, potions etc. One great thing about Fable II 
 is that you get a dog by your side and he helps you hunt out treasure chests and places to dig. 
 You can upgrade him by finding or buying books that will upgrade his treasuring hunting abilities. 
 Your dog also helps you in battle and if he gets to hurt you can heal him; also, mind you, that 
 he can play a part in expressions (more on those later) . Surprisingly the AI for the dog is done 
 very well and he looks, sounds, and acts like a real dog. Rarely did he get in the way or couldn't 
 find his way around an obstacle, and same goes for enemies as well. While you can buy more powerful 
 weapons (blunt, slashing, stabbing you know the type) to kill enemies there is no armor for you 
 to buy.
  
  All you can do is buy clothes and these just add to your looks which effects other things in the 
 game (more on socializing later) . The game consists of three different elements to upgrade with 
 and that's skill (ranged weapons) , will (magic) , and strength (melee) . You upgrade yourself by 
 absorbing the appropriate orbs after defeating an enemy or using the appropriate potion. It takes 
 awhile to start getting the higher level stuff, but once you get further into the game you earn 
 experience more quickly. You can customize your character a lot by buying tattoos, getting makeup 
 done etc. You can also even dye your clothes now which is cool.
  
  Combat in the game is pretty simple yet satisfying: You use X to attack, Y for ranged, B for magic. 
 Melee attacks can be charged while ranged weapons have other abilities like a TPS (third person 
 shooter) mode, lock on etc. Magic is a bit different this time around since you have a "Magic Tree" 
 that you access by holding down the RT and this brings up a series of bubbles. Each bubble is a 
 higher level and you just equip which spell you want in each bubble. For example if you have a 
 level 1 shock, level 2 blades, and level 3 wind you hold down the B button and let go when you 
 get to the spell you want. This is really easy to use and I found this very useful. While combat 
 is a large portion of the game socializing has always been a huge part of Fable and Fable II expands 
 on this quite a bit. You can now get jobs and these range from blacksmithing to bartending. While 
 these jobs are tedious they are almost required to earn a lot of gold to buy better items. These 
 jobs are timing mini-games and can be pretty difficult to master. Each job has five different levels 
 and you have to earn a certain amount of gold on that level before moving on. One important thing 
 to note is you can never die! When you "die" you just lose all the experience that's lying around 
 on the ground... this can either be great or bad for you depending on your playing style.
  
  Now Fable II has a whole marriage, child, sex thing and it's very useful if you want it. You have 
 expressions you learn in the game by becoming more renowned in the world by completing tasks. certain 
 expressions can be used to flirt, be rude, make people laugh etc. When you do these expressions 
 you'll attract people and eventually someone might start liking you so much they'll offer gifts 
 and even fall in love with you. When they do you offer them a wedding ring and set your home (more 
 on buying property later) as the marital home and you're married. You have to go back sometimes 
 and visit your spouse or they start hating you eventually will divorce you. You can have sex (yes 
 it's blacked out you pervs!) either protected or unprotected and this can lead to child birth. 
 Sometimes having unprotected sex with prostitutes can lead to STDs... and well you don't want to 
 get those. Often you must come back and give your child a gift and use good expressions on them 
 to keep them happy.
  
  Expressions are really a good way to also scare people during combat or to get your way in towns. 
 You can also buy property and houses and even buy furniture and furnish them to your liking. If 
 you don't want to move into one you can rent it out even. The same goes with stores and you just 
 accumulate income as time goes on. If you want you can set a budget limit for your family to keep 
 them happy so you can visit them less. This is great once you start buying a lot of property in 
 the world. While the world is huge with lots of areas to visit they are all broken up with fairly 
 long load times (even when the game is ripped to the HDD) . There is lots to do in the world of 
 Albion such as solve Demon Door quests, hunt for treasure, finish jobs and side quests etc.
  
  You really never run out of things to do it's just when you decide the game is over; that's 
 all up to you. The game looks absolutely amazing and you often stop and look at the scenery and 
 take it all in. Fable II is one of the best looking games right now and the sound is even marvelous 
 too. Fable II is just such a charming game (the pub games are confusing though!) with a few minor 
 flaws that can be overlooked though. Often does combat feel tedious after awhile and the main story 
 is still pretty short. While there is a lot more to do it's all repetitive quests and other things 
 to do. If you get to bored you can join in the co-op play, but even then you'll get bored after 
 about 20 hours or so.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: shadowblade99
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 8, 2009 2:40 pm PT
Review:  Fable 2 is a fun light action fantasy game for mature audiences that has a good sense of humor 
 and is easy to pick up and play. 
  
  The story is pretty much like the first with a few changes here and there. Basically you chose 
 your gender at the begining of the game and you and your sibbling are off. You start off as street 
 rats wishing to be living in the castle across the way. Once you are invited you find out Lucien 
 is trying to kill off all the living heros of the world, and you two are the last. After your near 
 miss with death, it is your task to avenge your sibbling's death and save the world. No pressure 
 right?!
  
  As usual, you character ages through out the game, he gets fat if you eat too much junk food, depending 
 on your actions through out the game you will be good or evil, pure or corrupt. Further more depending 
 on your taste you will be good with either firearms, melee, or magic. All of these things will 
 change the way your character looks, and how people react to you. Further more you can enact expressions 
 to have "conversations" with people through out towns. Depending on their reactions will depend 
 on gifts, attitude, and where/who you spend your nights with. 
  
  The game also track the little along the line of how many enemies killed, STD's recieved, money 
 spent and found, and so on. This doesn't really effect game play, but it's kind of interesting 
 for the hardcore fans to keep track of. 
  
  The game play is easy to pick up and play. Each thing that can be done with one button, such as 
 melee, magic, and firearms. Expressions can be easily used with the cross pad, but the full list 
 can be accessed with the bumpers. Speaking of menus, there are A LOT of them in this game. This 
 can be annoying after a while when you are looking for a specific thing. Combat isn't very deep, 
 you can pretty much hack and slash your way through it. Same thing with firearms. Magic is a little 
 deeper, but you can just hold the magic button to make the damages harsher. However this can be 
 kind of mind numbing at times. Further more the camera doesn't help very much. 
  
  The main quest takes about 20 hours of game play. The extras may take an extra 10 to 20 hours of 
 play. The game can continue after the main quest is completed. 
  
  This game is aimed at a pretty limited audience. It's bawdy humor will keep the little ones at 
 bay, and may grate on some of the more mature audiences (mostly girlfriends/fiancee's/wives for 
 their depictions of women in several of the more... colorful towns) . The story isn't too different 
 then anything out there, and it pretty light on depth. I doubt that many Final Fantasy fans will 
 want to pick this up. The graphics are surely not the best the system and produce and the music 
 isn't anyting that's going to be made into a sound track. Although I do have to say that the voice 
 acting is pretty good at times. 
  
  Fable is a light title, that doesn't disappoint too much. Although it doesn't stray too much from 
 the first one's huge splash into the world of action RPGs. It does add some some new stats that 
 the first one doesn't have. Firearms work pretty much as the bow and arrow system of the first, 
 so that's nothing new. Combat is essencially the same along with the magic system. Even the graphic 
 engine feels the same. 
  
  Yours in gaming. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tiger_rampage
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 8, 2009 2:34 pm PT
Review:  When I read that a sequel to the award-winning Fable was announced, I'll be the first to admit 
 that I was far from excited. Some aspects of it did pique my interest, being set one hundred years 
 in the future and introducing gun powder, but that wasn't enough to really get me to look any further 
 into it. Then, as more and more information popped up in gaming magazines and on the internet, 
 yeah, I fell into the hype. 
  
  Choosing a gender, affecting the cut scenes, having children, and a dog were only some of the things 
 that really got me excited for Peter Molyneux's upcoming action RPG. Honestly, Quarter three 2008 
 couldn't come quick enough for me. Then finally, in October, after what seemed like forever.. that 
 day arrived. I was right there at my local Game Stop for the midnight release of Fable II, and 
 anxiously picked up my copy to take home to play. 
  
  You begin the game as a male or female character, starting out as a child, very similar to the 
 first. Almost immediately after the game begins you start to have an impact on the world around 
 you. One in particular, depending on how you handle a certain situation, determines how Bowerstone 
 (the main city of the game) will be affected later in your character's life. 
  
  One of the biggest differences between this and the first Fable is your loyal dog, whose name is 
 up to the player. While many people found the dog to be the best part of the game, I didn't. I 
 don't know, maybe it was the constant barking and leading me off my path to dig up condoms, even 
 when his treasure finding skill was maxed out. His combat skills really aren't anything to write 
 home about either. For your dog to do any damage at all, your enemies first have to be knocked 
 to the ground. Basically, the dog just delivers the finishing blow. It's nice to have a companion 
 with you on your journey, don't get me wrong, but it helps if your companion can actually DO something, 
 rather than just be a distraction.
  
  The combat isn't bad in my opinion. Melee attacks are assigned to the X button, Magic to the B 
 button, and ranged attacks to the Y button. A lot of people seemed to have a problem with this, 
 why I didn't understand. At any rate, I enjoyed the combat. Fun, without being too complex. Though 
 one big flaw, really, is there being a total lack of a penalty for dying. There is no game over 
 in Fable II. If you die, you take a scar, and keep going. It didn't annoy me TOO greatly, but I 
 just felt there should be some punishment for dying other than taking a scar 
  
  The aspect of good and evil returns in Fable II as well. When you perform deeds such as rescuing 
 people from slavery, or ridding an area of bandits, your goodness meter goes up. When you perform 
 deeds such as sacrificing people, or selling people into slavery, you evil meter goes up. Fable 
 II also introduces a Corrupt/Pure meter. When you do things like raise the price of someone's rent, 
 you become more corrupt, and when you eat vegetables you become more pure. All of this affects 
 your appearance. I don't know what it was, maybe it was because I was playing as a female character, 
 but I could never get her to look as monstrous as the demon on the cover of the game. 
  
  As I said earlier, you can dabble in real estate and rake in a LOT of cash this way. I mean a LOT. 
 You can buy and rent out houses and shops, and raise the rent as you see fit. This also aids to 
 your purse as you continue to make money even whilst the game is turned off. It can basically eliminate 
 the need to work if you do this early enough in the game. 
  
  The concept of marriage returns in Fable II, and the skies the limit. No matter your sexual preference. 
 There's also the matter of children, yes children. Though the game makes no effort for the children 
 to look like you, or even age past the point of being a small child. I was really disappointed 
 in this, I mean the Sims can do it.. why not Fable? Yeah, yeah I know. You want the Sims? Go play 
 The Sims. It still would have been nice to see. I also recall Peter saying that even if your spouse 
 died, your child would have to endure that pain and live the rest of its life with it. I don't 
 know, would have been interesting to see what type of character that child grew into. 
  
  Probably my biggest problem with this game is the co-op. It was an utter let down. I was expecting 
 a friend to be able to come into the world I created with THEIR CHARACTER. Not some generic henchmen. 
 I know it's nice to be making more money whilst playing in your friend's world, but you can't even 
 play as your character? There's no excuse for this, in my eyes. If the worry was that the character 
 coming into the player's world would be too strong, then why are we allowed to use our level five 
 magic in a brand-new player's world? I have no idea the logic behind this. I don't really care. 
 
  
  I was also a bit let down by the story, though you can't really expect much story from a Lion Head 
 game. That's all I'll really say about it. I don't know. It felt a little rushed. Or not thought 
 out. I also found the last boss fight to be a joke. 
  
  All this aside I enjoyed my time with Fable II, and would recommend it to anyone wanting to play 
 a fun, humorous action RPG. Fable II is one of the funniest games I've played in a long time. It's 
 FULL of British humor, which I love. This review may seem a little ranty, but its my first one, 
 so cut me some slack. I think Peter Molyneux should work less on the hype and more on delivering 
 on what he promises in his games. The man can make a fun game. There's no doubt about that. If 
 you go into Fable II without any expectations, you'll have a blast. 
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Draconis77
Rating: 5
Date: Feb 8, 2009 1:12 pm PT
Review:  Once again Lionhead has failed to live up to Peter Moore's description of what their new game will 
 be like. In both the first and second Fable, Lionhead released the game before it was completed. 
 We then had Fable lost chapters and now the Knothole Island DLC which seemed to be what the games 
 were supposed to be at launch.
  
  One of the joys of Fable was wandering around and collecting all the armor and weapons as you progressed 
 through the game. In Fable 2 all of the clothing is essentially available from the first shop you 
 come across and there is no armor whatsoever. The outfits generally look rediculous and there is 
 not much variety in the weapon selection.
  
  At least Fable: Lost Chapters seemed to be a completed product. Fable 2 is so lacking I am surprised 
 it has received as high reviews as it has.
  
  The fighting is still fun, however the game is ridiculously easy, as was the first.
  
  Lionhead 
 studios has consistently failed since Black and White. Each game released since has been utterly 
 disappointing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aRAGINGHOBO
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 11, 2009 4:03 pm PT
Review:  There are so many things that make Fable II great, but some of them I don't even know why they 
 make the game great, they just do. The graphics aren't ground-breaking, so why can't I stop looking 
 at every little detail I spot? The music doesn't blow my mind, so why is the jingle at the main 
 menu constantly stuck in my head? I think the reason why these seemingly small things are actually 
 such strong contributors to the overall experience is that they are things you don't find in many 
 other games. They all go together so well, that you can't help but appreciate all the little nuances 
 you come across, such as the way your dog barks at you when he finds treasure, or the way villagers 
 run in fear of your very presence. In Fable II the subtle details can sometimes be the best parts 
 about the game.
  But Fable II doesn't just have the little things going for it. It's music complements the setting 
 very well. The art style is fantastic, even it the graphics could be better. The controls are solid, 
 and it shows in combat when you can seamlessly go from sword-fighting to shooting to magic. 
  The dog companion is surprisingly a huge bonus to the gameplay. You can learn several ways to interact 
 with him, including playing fetch, throwing him a treat, praising him, healing him, or even scolding 
 him. While at first this may seem like only a small addition to the gameplay, after just a few 
 hours you will realize that the dog is actually more important to you personally than any of the 
 human characters. The dog isn't just a friend, though. He is also a valuable ally to have while 
 exploring. He alerts you if there is treasure nearby, and he kills enemies that you have knocked 
 to the ground during combat.
  I can only find minor problems with Fable II. Although it is definitely interesting to look at, 
 the graphics could still be better. You may encounter serious frame drop from time to time, but 
 this does little to spoil the experience. The loading times can be awfully long especially when 
 you're only traveling from one part of a town to another. 
  Overall Fable II is an excellent game with many redeeming qualities that will make you look past 
 any imperfections you find. I highly recommend making this your next purchase, and while you are 
 at the store, also get some Microsoft Points so you can buy the Knothole Island DLC. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mikeoohhhh
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 7, 2009 2:53 pm PT
Review:  the games story line is short and sweet, but almost too sweet. after you get past the sugary sweet 
 coating of the plot you realize, "hey, this nougaty center is a little bit bland!"
  
  don't get me wrong, the game is fun and a basic, dry version of an oblivion-like rpg. you might 
 want to rent the game before you succumb to its rather large price tag. i believe the price is 
 a little more than the value of the game because it lacks replayability and the multiplayer, honestly, 
 just plain sucks! the aspect of being able to buy businesses and make profit from their economic 
 endeavors is enlightening. the fact that you can marry someone and have children with them gives 
 the game a "sims-vibe" and is a bit innovative. also the ablility to interact with any citizen 
 and the option to choose your life's path (evil or good) can add to the fun.
  
  in conclusion, if you don't have the time to play a game with an immense plot similar to oblivion, 
 rent fable! it's easy to fall in love with and the learning curve is about 20 minutes. basically, 
 if you like any of the game's aspects i mentioned above, give it a try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: revanent
Rating: 2.5
Date: Feb 7, 2009 2:13 pm PT
Review:  ok firstly this game was expecting me to be the best game of the year due to words like great role 
 playing being spread around but the mapping was small too, to make it more confusing there wasnt 
 any small map to get the idea of where to go which seemed like a trick for the company to avoid 
 the fact the maps were small but it also i hav to admit the voice actin was brill but i just couldnt 
 understand how they used the dark/light gameplay like shadow the hedgehog without barely anything 
 to show for gaining advantages over being evil or good, anyway i could babble for ages about this 
 but i just feel like the game coud hav done with lots of improvements like instead of the repititive 
 jobs, i loved the special powers but the game crashs numerous times, has been reported to keep 
 crashing unless installed to hard drive 
::::::

::::::
UserName: michael39238
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 6, 2009 8:30 pm PT
Review:  I'll admit my expectations for this game were high from the start. I thought Fable 1 was fantastic, 
 groundbreaking, and I just wished there were more to it - more story, more depth, more ways to 
 customize your player.
  Fable 2, set 500 years in the future world from Fable 1, tries to deliver an upgrade on its core 
 theme of adaptive gameplay in a bigger, ostensibly more rich world. Like its predecessor, Fable 
 sports a main storyline for your character which gradually reveals the world, and side quests which 
 appear as your character gains reknown.
  
  Unfortunately some of the flaws in the Fable adaptive concept just play themselves out in bizarre 
 ways in Fable 2. Your renown, for example, apparently affects how the NPCs react to you, affects 
 certain prices, affects how your actions are taken. However this effect goes largely unnoticed. 
 Renown in many ways is like a progress bar which advances the game, it almost seems like it does 
 not deserve special treatment.
  
  In Fable 2 the experience system is a bit clunky, since you are gathering experience orbs (which 
 disappear if you don't grab em up) from killing monsters, with different types of experience for 
 different attacks you perform. The, there is a spending system whereby if you have magic experience, 
 you can buy spell levels.
  
  I say, scratch that. Experience is best as a single stat or a transparent stat. Fable 2 even has 
 a wide variety of potions that grant you different types of experience points! It's an over complication 
 of a tried and true system. If they wanted to award points for using certain skills, that could 
 be done more elegantly, perhaps automatically learning stronger fireballs if you make use of fireballs 
 a lot. Simple. 
  
  There are plenty of collisions between groundbreaking ideas and usability in this game. The attacks 
 and spells, mapped to the "single button" control style, just get lost to the point where you will 
 wind up using two or three basic spells and attacks most of the time. Its not an improvement over 
 Fable 1 at all. The spell meter is the worst offender, requiring you to make insane trade-offs 
 on which spells you train up.
  
  Again, like Fable 1, the world is not really "open". Areas are far apart. When games like GTA can 
 make huge open worlds that do not require loading time, why does Fable get stuck with horrid loading 
 times? In addition, travel between area takes virtual time, days pass. This adds a decidedly non-fun 
 aspect to the game of managing time for jobs that expire, or a needy spouse, for example, who can't 
 seem to wait two long trips before they divorce you, so you have to pass through town each time 
 you get a faraway quest. 
  
  Your adaptive character, unfortunately, winds up being an ugly freak. Spending points will make 
 your character shaped like a WWF nightmare by the time you are done. Eating the food that appears 
 automatically in your items panel will make you fat, unless you want to pause every time mid combat 
 to drink a healing potion (you dont, navigation through the UI is painful) . Oh and magic, well, 
 it makes your character horribly scarred. So does dying. Even the most pure, moral character who 
 wolfs down celery (it makes you thin) will look like hideous beast, no matter what clothing or 
 hairstyle you pick to hide your shame. If looks aren't everything, Fable 2 sure has cornered the 
 market on whatever that everything is.
  
  Simply put, is it not possible to be a clever thief who does not get caught and looks attractive 
 and upstanding? No, stealing, even if you are not caught, automatically changes your standing and 
 therefore how NPC's treat you. Big brother is not only watching, but telling everyone!
  
  If it sounds like I didn't find anything good about the game well, it just the list of flaws is 
 big because there are a lot of features. The world is really attractive and the cities do feel 
 alive. The NPC interaction can be very amusing and you will try and learn how they act and react. 
 Some dynamic interactions are surprising and hint at a clever AI under the hood. (Killing an NPC 
 in your home, who is flirting with you, can get a cheer out of your spouse if they have been conditioned 
 to love you enough that they don't get sent into panic and warn others) .
  
  Even in the interaction aspect there are some flaws, mainly in the packaging; some characters persist 
 but there are some that you can kill and will just reappear again later. There are some interesting 
 fixed aspects; NPCs have their own homes and work in specific shops. You can catch them running 
 their daily routines. Some NPCs will disappear never to be seen again, replaced by a clone with 
 a new name. The ones that follow you out of town, I always seem to lose track of them too. Quest 
 NPCs just appear and vanish, like they were an afterthought.
  
  Some of the plot is copied from Fable 1 and other plot is new, but in general the main storyline 
 plot is bland. The characters themselves are interesting and the voice acting is good. Its just 
 the main story sort of falls flat.
  There is a lot to this game and I'd give it a go, its fun to try things out. But be warned, it 
 is flawed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: seebass50
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 6, 2009 3:00 pm PT
Review:  This game was awesome buts whats with the impossible survival skills including surviving a point 
 blank head shot with some weird dream setting, falling off a castle and head planting a wall. The 
 worst of all is the final boss was a wussy, he dies in one shot that makes you wanna say "that 
 was so hard im surprised i survived" but other than this, this game was awesome. And the expansion 
 was awesome, but they should have hinted the dog coming back, there goes a waste of a choice in 
 the spire. Well next time i start over ill choose something else, the wife and kid are easily replaceable. 
 This game overall was a great success over fable one but they should have had something fun like 
 jack of blades from fable 1. The dog was a awesome idea since he changes like you do, corrupt for 
 pure, this game to me was really all about choices and i think games that let you choose what you 
 want to do most of the time is awesome 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gormo4
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 28, 2009 7:45 am PT
Review:  Positives
  + Beautifully animated graphics
  + Great customisation
  + Loads of quests and dungeons 
  
  Negatives
  - The main quest is quite short
  - Camera 
 isn't great in cramped areas
  - Combat can be dull at times
  
  Welcome to my review for fable 2 on the xbox 360, first of all it improves a lot on fable 1 in 
 many ways such as graphics, things to do and places to explore.
  
  You start as a child in the snowy town of bowerstone as a ( boy or a girl) when a travelling merchant 
 comes to visit which changes your life.
  Your then given some basic choices, for example- your asked to clear a mans warehouse of beetles, 
 you can kill the beetles, the stock or both.. these effect your characters aligment and will effect 
 the future around you.
  
  So what will you choose to become? good or evil, what are the benefits of both sides?
  Well obviously 
 it's easy to be bad and go about killing innocents, being rude, stealing and many more bad deeds 
 but you can grow horns after you've reached a certain limit of evil, you can also extort villagers 
 out of items and money through your fear.
  It's much harder to be good, but if you are you get a halo around your head after a certain amount 
 of goodness, people compliment you where ever you go and you smile back and maybe pull an entertaining 
 gesture.
  
  Graphics in fable 2 are beautifully animated, I especially like the bright colours used in forests 
 and lakes, strong greens and blues.
  Water detail is also fantastic, you can swim in it as well! the only time when the graphics can 
 go wonky is when your in cramped places, the camera angle goes all funny and textures start to 
 look bad, so it's best to not go into small houses etc.. unless you have to.
  
  What else can you do in fable, well here's a quick list.. you can get married, divorced, have kids, 
 raise your kids, buy houses, invest in shops, rent out houses, take jobs, get stds, sleep around, 
 change your haircut and style, turn pale after not eating enough, eat loads of pies and get fat, 
 eat nothing and grow skinny, steal from houses, dance in the nude, insult people, flirt with people 
 and plunder loads of dungeons, sound like enough to do?
  
  Music isn't bad, it has a certain feel to it, I especially like how it's suited to what's going 
 on, for example- the music turns epic when you get into a fight, or mysterious when you enter a 
 new zone etc..
  As for audio it's pretty good, most villagers seem to say the same things to you over and over 
 again, but it didn't bother me much.
  Most people also have regional accents and carry bags of sarcastic and dry jokes.. sometimes they're 
 just asking for your to slip an arrow into their head!
  
  You can use the money you get from quests and monsters to invest in houses, shops, weapons or equipment.
 
  You can also earn money by doin jobs such as blackmsmithing and woodcutting, these are quite tedious 
 but at the start of the game help you out a lot.
  They involve a green dot going up and down a bar, you have to click A when the green dot is in 
 line with a red block on the line.. it's hard to explain in words, but you normally get a certain 
 small amount of money every time or few times you perform the task and you earn more as you go.
 
  
  On to combat, it's alright, you have 3 main ways of fighting, melee, ranged and magic (will) , you 
 can upgrade these when you earn experience for killing monsters.
  There are a choice of over 10 spells each having there own use, these include- push, time control, 
 summon undead, shock, inferno and chaos.
  You can use the magic for a great advantage but it's very underpowered (quite weak) this is for 
 a reason, you have unlimited magic use which is strange for an rpg game where you usually have 
 a certain amount of magic power.
  Melee isn't bad, you could compare it to assassins creed, hit, block, roll, dodge and hit again, 
 it can be good fun when put together with magic and ranged.
  Range brings us the use of guns and crossbows 'GUNS!?' you might be thinking, no I'm not joking, 
 there are rifles and pistols in fable 2, not as powerful as you might think though, for example- 
 it can take like 20 shots to kill a single enemy near the start, whatever ranged weapon you choose 
 depends of how you play, pistol is quick and weak, rifle is slow and heavy and the crossbow is 
 inbetween.
  
  After you finish the short storyline involving bringing together 3 people, the mage, the pilgrim 
 and the theif, you then are given a choice at the end of the game, wealth (gives you loads of gold) 
 love (brings your dog back to life and makes everyone love you) or fame (makes everyone worship 
 you) from then on it's your world to do as you wish and it has plenty of replayable value.
  
  I highly reccomend fable 2 to anybody who enjoys rpg or action games and wants the freedom 
 to become what they want to become, in fact, everyone should play this game!
  I hope this review has helped, thanks for reading!
  ~Gormo
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: BIackwoIf
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 5, 2009 5:12 pm PT
Review:  I was sceptical at first buying Fable 2. mostly because one of the main things I enjoyed about 
 the first Fable was the Medieval aspect (Armor and such) and this appeared to be more of a Pirate 
 genre by the promos. I however was wrong. Granted I couldn't buy armor, but that didn't matter 
 much.
  
  OK the PROS:
  
  Fun and easy gameplay/battle system, very humorous characters and Ai interaction. Beautiful scenic 
 regions, The fact that you can have threesomes, The Dog (which I was initially leery about) was 
 a useful tool and wasn't bothersome at all, and the henchman 2 player aspect was better than only 
 single play regardless of the limitations that everyone has cried about
  
  The CONS:
  
  The zoom in and shoot ranged weapons was not as good of a system as Fable 1 (and, I can't kick 
 decapitated heads like in the first Fable)
  Travelling, there was numerous times while walking that I entered a region I did not want to enter 
 and had to wait for that region to load, then turn around take a step and wait for the initial 
 region I was in to reload (wasted time) They should have made a larger buffer area to warn you 
 that you are leaving a region. Unlike Fable 1, you can't punch innocent people, only kill them 
 "Hey, I don't want to be a killer, just a bastard ". The getting too fat from eating the wrong 
 foods and then taking days of tracking down celery to fix the matter was just plain dumb. I fight 
 my weight in REAL life, when I'm in a fantasy world, cut me some slackAnd the last con is
 The Missing Wife GlitchGot a wife, a nice house, and both of us want sex, but sadly she is in 
 some alternate parallel universe so we are both denied the pleasure. 
  
  The Pros seriously out weigh the Cons though, and I look forward to future Fable creations. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: warj87
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 4, 2009 5:14 pm PT
Review:  I love Fable 2 after playing it once it makes you want to play more and more. Once i start playing 
 it was hard for me to stop. This game really gives you that virtue of free will. The world around 
 you depends on what choices you make. You can be a good hero or an evil bandit. This all depends 
 on how you interact with people. The dog is you best companion he is the one who follows you everywhere 
 and finds you great treasure and buried goods. Its really fun to mess around with people and see 
 how they react to your expressions. Fable 2 really is a game of Vengeance (after your sister is 
 killed) and Life after that tragedy and how you go through all these quests for certain people. 
 I highly recommend this game to anyone who is a rpg lover or loved the first fable. This is one 
 the greatest sequels i have seen in a while. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: danger_sHarKs
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 4, 2009 2:52 pm PT
Review:  During the ending credits a sketched drawing of a bowing Peter Molyneaux appeared on the screen. 
 I wanted to clap and applaud but I was too lost in thought to do that. I was digesting what a wonderful 
 game I just completed. The game just sucks you in and in the end, gently pushes you out. There 
 is so much freedom to be found here, it's unbelievable. It has all the stuff you can do from Fable 
 1 plus so much more! And the dog... Oh, the dog is simply awesome. My only complaint about it is 
 that the dog kinda sucks in combat. But with all these weapons and spells... who cares? It's also 
 cool you get to have kids. Yeah, ya heard me. It's also hilarious that you can wear a condom if 
 you don't want any. He-he. Well, don't have much more to say except "PLAY THIS GAME! YEAH!!!!" 
 so.... 
  Ciao. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Element755
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 4, 2009 1:00 pm PT
Review:  This game is defiantly worth the wait. I do agree that the bugs and glitches do get annoying and 
 have me pulling out my hair but after i fight some bad guys with my great and pleasurable combat 
 system, i feel better. Game play... Freakin Great! i still play this game over and over again. The 
 variety is endless... If you have an imagination. if your a Grey dull person then this game isn't 
 for you. Audio... Great, it is really awesome. the way the people talk, the sounds of your weapons 
 hitting swords and flesh is amusing. And the soundtrack is good. Graphics? Very good, but I've 
 seen better. It is good but there has been better. The graphics are good, not great. Entertainment: 
 The world just suck's you in and doesn't let you go. And you don't want it to let go. I'll say 
 this about Fable 2. Fable 2 Captivated me, took my prisoner against my will. And i liked it :)
 
  This game is worth it, do not listen to critics. This game is enjoyable and just so much fun. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mannad85
Rating: 6
Date: Feb 4, 2009 8:19 am PT
Review:  Easy? How easy? Well, its probably easier to die in Super Mario World, than Fable II. You can buy 
 shops in Fable II and the money they earn compiles not only while you play... but while you were 
 away, a trait similar to Animal Crossing. You can shoot people with guns or use a sword, or axe. 
 You can't really die. There are unique weapons that are way worse than ones you can buy. You have 
 a dog that does half the work for you. The game has pointless features that would attract those 
 who like splurging time. The graphics were good... better than Oblivion. But If you are looking 
 for a fantasy game to spend time on and not feel like an idiot, Fable II is not for you.
  
  So what is the biggest problem? The ending. Don't worry not a spoiler... because there is nothing 
 to spoil. You don't get to fight the antagonist, Lucian, in glorious one on one combat. You don't 
 even have to face a sick dilemma like killing your sister or don't keep the cool sword. The developer 
 pretty much ruined the game here. After you complete the final quest before the climax. You do 
 no action except killing beetles and kicking chickens as a little boy or girl. Lucian gets killed 
 in a cut scene in which you don't even kill him, but an NPC does. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GrieVeR_FoReVeR
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 4, 2009 7:07 am PT
Review:  I never played the first Fable, so I can't tell you the improvements made over the game. *SPOILER*: 
 Fable II starts off you living in the streets with your sister. Both of you are escorted to Castle 
 Fairfax on Lucien's order. Inside the castle, Lucien shoots dead your sister followed by shooting 
 you out of the window. Luckily, you survived due to your heroic bloodline and are rescued by Theresa 
 and the dog. 10 years later, you set on a quest to stop Lucien from *creating his new world* and 
 to avenge your sister.
  
  Game-play: In Albion, you will mostly be forced to choose either the good decision or the dark 
 one. This is nice since your decisions will affect your surroundings: character appearance, dog, 
 town economy and town appearance (Bowerstone Old Town, Westcliff) . Throughout the game, you will 
 be accompanied by you loyal dog who will find dig spots, treasures and sense danger. This is a 
 good idea since traveling Albion alone can seem lonely at times without your dog. Earning money 
 in this game is damn easy due to house/shop renting. You can also do jobs and gamble to earn money. 
 In addition, you can also get married and even have kids.
  
  Combat: The combat is fun and cool, but may get boring as you dwell deeper into the game. There 
 are 3 types of combat: Strength (melee) , Skill (range) and Will (magic) . Your character can use finishing 
 moves and sometimes the enemy dies in slow-mo which is really awesome.
  
  Graphics: Cartoony, but nice, since it's meant to be like that. The scenery of Albion are beautiful 
 while the visuals are impressive.
  Albion is detailed like a believable world, though there are some graphical errors.
  
  Audio: 
 What can I say? The background music always seems to suit the theme and are nice to hear. Character's 
 voices sounds like what they should be. 
  
  Controls : The controls are user-friendly. You will find the controls smooth while playing the 
 game. For the melee and range attacks, you'll just need to mash 1 button for each. The Will requires 
 you to slowly charge up for high level Wills, but you can set up your own to use a variety of Wills 
 at a time.
  
  Replay value:
  There are reasons to replay this game. The 2nd time you play it, you may choose different decisions, 
 different gender or even new combat set-ups.
  
  Things to remind you.
  There are no fishing in this game. You will often get stuck or blocked by the crowds. Your dog 
 sometimes can be annoying. There are also not that many cloth for you to wear, but this is an RPG... 
 The main missions are very short, you can finish the game in 2 days by just doing the main missions. 
 Stupid map.
  
  The Verdict: Fable II is an amazing game that may even impress those non-rpg gamers. I encouraged 
 you to get this game for around 40$.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: zombehhhh
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 31, 2009 3:17 pm PT
Review:  I have to say going into this game, I never played the first. If you're reading this review, know 
 that off the bat. I heard from some that it was a fun game, I heard from others that it sucked. 
 I don't know. I have watched people play it and it does look like the second game in most ways. 
 When playing the first part of the game where you're running around as a little kid, I noticed 
 that it was pretty lame. I truly wondered why it was an M rated game (and actually, I still do) . 
 I thought that the voice acting was good and the graphics were okay. I got to the part where you 
 get shot and thrown out of the window and I realized that this game is pretty lame. Once I became 
 a young adult in the game, I had fun just throwing the ball for the dog and stuff like that. After 
 completing the first couple of quests, I decided that this game wasn't so bad. What do I think 
 of it now? I love it! Let me complain a little before I get into the good parts of the game. I 
 do think that the visuals are for the most part good. The character models are a little sketchy 
 and the hero does look like he took some steroids. I also don't like the fact that you become old 
 in the game if you choose to be good. My hero is a gray-haired old fart who still manages to get 
 it on and have four children. His eyes did turn red though! That's cool! The social part of the 
 game is a bit cheesy and pointless but I just avoid it for the most part. I played the game with 
 my hero being good and found it to be surprisingly easy. The controls are simple yet they get the 
 job done. Switching from melee to ranged weapon to magic powers was a breeze. My friend watched 
 me play through the game and the first question I had was, "Is there a certain amount of bullets 
 or magic hits that you have?" The answer to that question is no. I love the fact that I don't have 
 to spend all my money buying new ammo or potions. That's a huge pro. I also like the fact that 
 you have to manage your family if you have one. Buying them a nice house, keeping up the family 
 money, and giving your wife what she needs. And while most of the game is good, there's one part 
 of it that really sucks. You probably know what I'm talking about. It's the multiplayer. For a 
 game that had such high hopes for the multiplayer, it really was dissapointing. You invite a friend 
 and, holy crap! They're here in the world with you! So what? You can't do anything if you're in 
 someone else's world. You follow them around because you're his/her henchmen. The multiplayer was 
 pretty bad in this game and I think they would have been better off not even putting it in the 
 game. But besides the bad multiplayer, the loading screens that took too long, and the retarded 
 looking characters, I'd say that this is a pretty fun game and anyone who likes fighting bandits 
 and Hobbes, jump in. Just make sure you land properly. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigd575
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 3, 2009 7:13 am PT
Review:  I really enjoyed the first Fable I thought that it was a lot of fun, then Fable to was going to 
 come out I could wait. It's just as good and that's basically all I wanted from it. Fable 2 is 
 also a really nice RPG that is an Xbox 360 exclusive to.
  
  The story line is much better this time around just like they said it would be. I've seen better 
 story's before and this one isn't one that would be called ground breaking are something but it 
 is good. And most will really enjoy going through it. You can also choose to be good or evil which 
 is a good thing but it feels like it's a lot easier to be evil than good.
  
  Now if you want to know what really sticks out as being great it's the gameplay. It just makes 
 the game shine, it's so much fun trying to max out all of your skills. You'll spend so many hours 
 before you know it just working on your skills. You also get a dog with is a big addition to the 
 game and a really nice one to.
  
  The graphics aren't the best that you will see, but they aren't the worse either. They ain't bad 
 everything pretty much looks good, and you'll like to look at everything that surrounds you. The 
 sound is great with voice acting being really nice. The sounds of guns and stuff of that nature 
 are all done great.
  
  Overall Fable 2 is a nice addition to this little series that's just really starting, I would defiantly 
 like to see more and I hope that I do. If you were a fan of the first than you'll be a fan of the 
 second one to.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: sagasue
Rating: 5
Date: Feb 3, 2009 12:45 am PT
Review:  Maybe I was expecting too much, but I had read the reviews and had great hopes. I hated the restriction 
 on movement; no wandering off the beaten track like in Oblivion. The main quest was really weak, 
 far too many cut scenes, and the time spent in the Spire was tedious.
  
  I completed some quests, only to find that they weren't resolved when I returned to the originator. 
 After completing the main quest, I was told to return to my family. I have been looking for them 
 for 5 days now, still no luck!
  
  I think the thing that I hated most was the fact that I didn't actually like my character in the 
 game. In Oblivion there is much more flexibility when choosing your main character, and this just 
 didn't work for me in Fable 2. 
  
  Oh, and PS....... the map was a complete waste of time. Again, look to Oblivion for the way that 
 this type of game should really be. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ThomBuc
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 2, 2009 8:44 am PT
Review:  This review will show the positive and bad things of this great game:
  
  The Good: Great Graphics with many details, this is very important because its always cool to play 
 a fun game with good graphocs and not some with crapy ones. An important thing of this game is 
 that it lets you do many different things, many quests, get married, being a thief, etc... this 
 makes it more realistic and your desicions are more important, something that the creators did 
 very weel is the guiding system foyr the quests, by doing this you can always return to a guest 
 knowing what to do or what was about, for example inanother games that you can do as much things 
 as Fable II when you stop playing for a while or start doing quests not so important to the story 
 you loose the track of what you had to do in another quests or the necesary ones for the storyline.
 
  
  The Bad: The Story is very simple, you don't make any empaty to the game characters. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: icepeda
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 1, 2009 9:03 pm PT
Review:  Let's talk about a game were you can mix reality and fantasy. Where you can be good or evil, tall 
 or short, and look the way you want. That would be the addictive Fable2. I love this game. The 
 first one got me hooked, but this one kept me here forever. My fianc never played the first, but 
 with a little push into part two, she can't put it down. She is on the verge of getting another 
 system in the house just to have her own copy. The only down side to this game is the multiplayer. 
 It seems like it's for beginners. You can't roam free from your partner, you can't marry anyone 
 you play with, and you have to use a pre rendered character. It would have been better to use your 
 own character in multiplayer when you join someone else in their world. I would love someone else 
 to see the individuality of my character from their character. I hope that the next one can have 
 a little more modification on the multiplayer. You could even have an in house nanny you pay to 
 watch your child when you and your spouse are off saving the world or even causing havoc. Hehe. 
 Other than that this game is one for your game library. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cwray27
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 31, 2009 6:02 pm PT
Review:  Fable, originaly known as "Project Ego", revolutionized the way we look at games. It brough fresh 
 gamplay, and an amazing storyline, and truly the best music score i have ever heard in a video 
 game, (well the second best, Elder Scrolls IV gets first) . And now, Fable is back at it again with 
 Fable II. The graphics of-course are upgraded, and the storyline is nice and fresh, taking place 
 several decades after the original fable. The music is still great, but not as good as the first 
 one, and the gameplay is even more amazing. This time, you choose from a boy or a girl (still no 
 choosable race) and you can customizw anything you want throughout, with even more choices than 
 Fable1
  
  If you are a fan of Fable, you will love this. The only bad part is that with great games, come 
 great glitches. Thats right, several freezing glitches and other unforseen bugs. I just hope they 
 patch it soon! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GodDemon
Rating: 1
Date: Jan 31, 2009 11:06 am PT
Review:  It is bugged too bugged that you lose 17 hours of play then another 20 then when you do progress 
 past all the bugged parts of the game you can get 200 hours out of the game but a annoying 200 
 hours and reason I played was because I coulden't take it back to the shops because it was the 
 LCE. So because of the annoyence I went through I gave this 1/10. Not only is the game bugged but 
 you can see how it was rushed, the story is awful and the combat is and does look very glictchy, the 
 spell system is bad and Fable I's combat was very good infact one of the best for a RPG. So this 
 is why I hate this game.. now... the good points.
  
  
  Having a family is fun. The grapics are good, good RPG elements and it's good how you can become 
 king.
  
  
  All in all this has a bad story and it has all been rushed. The choices are not even evil like they 
 where in TLC. But the game has got some intresting things.. but nothing I haven't seen before, fishing, digging, getting 
 drunk and people working was all done in the 2002 Arx Fatalis RPG, fable then copied and made number 
 II, however I was not impressed with this game and I say that fable ended in Fable TLC where you 
 put on Jack's mask instead of thowing it away and the whole of albion was destroyed.
  
  
  Now I hear that people who did choose to revive there dog as there spire wish can do that in the 
 knothole island DLC meaning that there wish was a waste because they can do that in Knothole island. Lionhead's 
 fable II was AN EPIC LENGENDARY FAIL! IT IS CRAP AND IS NOT EVEN FIT TO CLEAN MY ****!
  
  -0/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: slyg
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 30, 2009 8:57 am PT
Review:  Being able to buy homes, interact with the npc's in the environment gave this game the lasting 
 power. If it had been just straight combat it still would have been fun, but the story line and 
 interactions are what made it great. The actions to impress people took a little bit of time to 
 get right, and understand why some worked and others didnt. The fact that everyone that "loved" 
 you followed you around everywhere got a bit annoying, so you had to annoy them a bit to make them 
 go away.
  the graphics are well done and run smoothly and the NPC conversations were well done and did not 
 feel repetative.
  At some points it was a little adult for young teens, which can make it a game you can only play 
 after the younger ones have gone to bed. A feature to disable the more adult sequences would have 
 been nice. 
  
  Looking forward to some additional downloadable content... if they ever figure it out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Benevolentbob
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 30, 2009 1:25 am PT
Review:  I loved the first Fable, but was slightly let down by it and learned that Peter Moleneux sometimes 
 just liked to talk. So this time around I was cautiously hopeful that the game would deliver. It 
 has turned out to be one of the best games of the Xbox 360/PS3/Wii generation and one of my favorite 
 games of all time.
  
  Visually the game isn't a "graphics king" by any means, but it is technically proficient overall 
 and certainly pleasing to the eye. In terms of style it looks similar to the original Fable but 
 brought further ahead in time by about 500 years. It is still the somewhat cartoony and loveable 
 Fable. The game runs smoothly for the most part, but I did experience some framerate drops during 
 some of the more intense fights when there were easily more than twenty enemies on screen exploding 
 into sparkly XP goodness. Some of the load times can also be a little long and the menus for some 
 reason lag really badly. The game has some really great lighting and particle effects and puts 
 in a fair amount of detail where it counts, but as I mentioned earlier it isn't quite a standout 
 of sorts.
  
  The soundwork is fantastic. There's lots of well done voice acting with genuinely witty dialogue. 
 The soundtrack is very well put together and changes pace at just the right times. The sound effects 
 for the weapons, explosions, dog, farts and so on are all top notch.
  
  The storyline is much better than the one from the last Fable, but still nothing exactly groundbreaking. 
 It is much easier to be good this time just as Peter Moleneux promised, but it almost seems as 
 if the game is forcing you to be evil unless you want to sacrafice everything you have. My other 
 complaint would be that the main storyline is pretty short. If you stuck soley to the story you 
 could probably beat the game in about eight hours. I will say now, that when you choose one of 
 your three rewards at the end, the reward associated with the "love" card is made somewhat obsolete 
 by a trick in the Knothole Island downloadable content. Hope I didn't spoil anything for anyone 
 there.
  
  The gameplay is where this game truly shines. The combat feels fluid and is really fun. My only 
 complaint is that it does seema little shallow when you're at the end of the game and you realize 
 that rather than specializing in a certain skill you're actually becoming a super hero of sorts 
 who is the best at everything. The way I went about it is I maxed out my strength skills first, 
 then my will, and then upgraded my ranged skill whenever I had the spare experience to throw around. 
 While the main storyline may have been short, there's hours upon hours of side stuff for you to 
 do, and it's all good enough that I would certainly recommend playing through it all. I actually 
 spent the time to buy every piece of property in the game, which took me quite a long time. You 
 can now make a ton of money really easily by getting a five star ranking with a job, buying property, 
 and then going adventuring, all the while bringing in income from your property. Interaction with 
 villagers is amusing, but very shallow just like in the original game. You can have a family now, 
 but they're a really huge hassle. A really big addition was the dog. You can tell the developers 
 worked really hard to make it act like a real dog, and I grew attached to him. Your dog can learn 
 expressions to go along with yours, not to mention find you treasure and fight alongside you. Lionhead 
 Studios worked really hard on this time, I can easily tell this after playing through this game.
 
  
  I am very pleasently surprised that Lionhead was able to come through and deliver on all the hype 
 for this game. I hope the gaming community is able to appreciate just what an awesome game this 
 is, I know I did. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mrcwood
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 29, 2009 1:56 pm PT
Review:  I love fable! its one of the best rpgs on the xbox, so when i heard fable 2 was coming for the 
 360, i got a massaive hard-on lol. So when i finaly got my hands on the game i wasn't dissaponited, 
 i was also surpised that they keep't the same feel as fable 1 gave, i mean with its comedy and 
 unique design but making it better with the 360 graphics. Well when i was reading reveiws in xbox 
 mags, i got the impression that its was all serious and violent n bloody and stufff like that, 
 but i was glad tho to know its still has that fable feel too it but this time set 500 years in 
 the future.
  
  The story is different this time, as you are a small boy or girl named sparrow atm and u have a 
 sister called rose. At the beinning ur both orphin beggers on the streets of bowerstone. As one 
 day a trader comes too town and is selling a magic music box which u have to buy by doin tasks 
 around the old market. This box grants u a wish, which in a way comes true and u meet that bad 
 guy called Lucin (don't not how to spell it lol) in the castle. You then find out ur both have 
 hero blood in u so he then kills ur sister and nearly kills u but u survive. And u then grow up 
 to about 18 and u set out too be a hero and get revenge for ur sisters death.
  
  The game play has change from the first game, firstly the game its self is bigger! so much freedom 
 and no mini map! so u have got the whole of abilon to explore! Secondly u have 2 good n bad bars 
 this time, one is the obvious evil and good and the new one corrupted and pure! thirdly u have 
 a pet dog! which is completely interactable! so ur not wondering alone anymore awww.
  
  Their are so many things u can do in this game which u have to play to see for urself! but its 
 still got alot of area to improve but its worth a buy so 2 thumbs up for fable 2!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spartan_-_117
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 29, 2009 9:59 am PT
Review:  I was originally warry of this game due to the shortness of the prequel. As soon as you put fable 
 2 in your amazed. the cinematics are beautiful and in the first bit a sparrow craps on your characters 
 head. Fable 2 starts as its predesscessor having you do jobs to collect gold coins and so you and 
 your sister can buy a music box which you believe is magic. its in these opening bits that you 
 meet your trusty friend. your dog.
  
  On to gameplay and graphics.
  
  The graphics are amazing right from the get go and as the game progressess they get even more amazing. 
 regions like brightwood look so detailed you can even see little butterflies.
  
  Gameplay is where fable shines. the combat is very well done. the flourishes arent these glowing 
 attacks anymore they are slow motion action sequences. the game now features guns which have a 
 targetting system which lets you target and enemies weapon, head or even their groin.
  
  The main story is a little short but it makes up with it by the massive number oif quests. half 
 the time you dont even have time to do quests as you are managin property or at home tending to 
 the wife.
  
  
  Fable 2 is almost like your real life. you can play it as you are. or you can choose to be evil, 
 or good. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zach68486
Rating: 5
Date: Jan 29, 2009 3:05 am PT
Review:  Fable II is a game that some people absolutely love, and others hate. Me, I'm more towards the 
 hate option. But hear me out, I don't hate Fable II. It's not a bad game. It's just not mind-blowingly 
 good like what we've all been expecting for several months.
  
  I followed this game for a while before it's release. I was excited to play it. I never played 
 the first one, but I had seen it in action and thought that it looked fantastic. So I picked this 
 up... now, keep in-mind that I am more into RPGs like Fallout 3 and Oblivion.
  
  Anyway, I digress.
  
  This game is what I call 'average'... run of the mill, mediocre, normal. 
 So average that it's not even worth existing... not even worth buying.
  
  The storyline is not compelling in the slightest. It gives you no real reason to finish it, or 
 even begin it. It's boring and just uninteresting.
  
  The characters are cookie cut-outs, your average people. And most of them are very annoying. They 
 talk too much, follow you around for no reason, and generally get in the way. 
  
  The game tries to be funny, and it does have a sense of humor about it, but I did not find it funny 
 at all. Fart noises, belching, poop jokes, and all that stuff really takes away from the storyline, 
 which is supposed to be serious.
  
  It's impossible to get immersed in the game. The frequent long loading times are very annoying, 
 and contribute to this. Not only that, the combat is a boring and dull hack-n-slash affair. Sure, 
 you can get spells and guns, but what's the use? Just keep hitting the X button and they'll eventually 
 die.
  
  The game is too easy. Combat is not a thrill, just more of a chore. A repetitive, fruitless chore. 
 Especially when you're just trying to walk from point A to point B and keep having to battle the 
 same bandits/creatures that you just cleared out ten minutes ago, in the same exact place. It's 
 tedious and annoying, and just slows you down. You are told exactly what path to follow by a golden 
 bread-crumb trail, which makes navigation ultimately easy. But hell, good luck using the map screen, 
 which is utterly useless.
  
  You never die in this game. You just get knocked out, fall down in a dramatic slow-motion view, 
 and you get right back up and kill the enemies. Full health bar and all. You lose the experience 
 orbs that were on the ground when you die, but big whoop, who cares?
  
  Not only that, but you can cheat to make money and get experience. There is no challenge to this 
 game. It's all just a tedious repetitive chore.
  
  In conclusion, the game is not horrible. The graphics are great, and really add alot of atmosphere 
 to the game. It's fully possible to have a few hours of fun with this game, but don't expect much.
 
  
  Really, though, it's just too shallow to be a good RPG, in my book. There's no reason to explore, 
 and exploration is a staple of every good RPG. The game tries way too hard to be funny, and all-and-all, 
 it takes away from the plot and the immersion factor. The story could be compelling but it's riddled 
 with fart noises, belching, poop jokes, and all kinds of other random things. It's also filled 
 to the brim with annoying characters who are not appealing/interesting and nobody cares about them. 
 It's a cookie-cutter RPG and it's not fun for long. Go pick up Fallout 3, or even Oblivion. Or 
 even Mass Effect. All good RPGs which will suck up hours of your time. Fable II is a rental, in 
 my book.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Paul_GameFury
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 28, 2009 5:06 pm PT
Review:  I have done the impossible, succeeding where many others have failed. I have defeated the hype 
 machine. We were told this would be the deepest gaming experience we have ever encountered, but 
 I resisted. We were told that this game would change our lives, but I remained firm. We were told 
 this would be the most important title to video games since Pong, yet I did not give in. Now with 
 the beaten and bloody hype monster lying dead at my feet, I could truly enjoy Fable 2 without being 
 disappointed by it not living up to the impossible standards that started growing the moment it 
 was announced.
  
  Although the game is looked at as an RPG, it has just as much in common with Zelda as it does Oblivion. 
 The entire development was done with casual gamers in mind. Most battles can be won with simple 
 button mashing, but can be more complicated if you choose. Your character cannot die; they only 
 fall unconscious for a moment and get back up with a new scar. There is no leveling up and only 
 three separate skills under which to spend points to improve your abilities: Strength, Skill, and 
 Will.
  
  The combat is fairly basic at first but gets much deeper the more you play. Melee starts with simply 
 pressing X over and over but more moves, like blocks or flourishes, are added later. Ranged weapons 
 start the same way also. Press Y over and over to fire at the nearest enemy. Later, you can gain 
 the ability to free aim, which allows you to pick off enemies before they spot you. I have yet 
 to decide if I really like the magic setup yet. The basics are good. Each spell has two fire modes: 
 targeted or area of effect. For example, if the lightning spell is selected, simply pressing B 
 will hit every enemy in the immediate vicinity. Holding a direction while pressing B will concentrate 
 the spell on the nearest enemy to where you aimed. This works great, so stunning all enemies with 
 an area attack then picking them off one by one before they can recover is great fun. As spells 
 level up, holding the button longer will charge a meter on the side of the screen that builds up 
 to the currently unlocked level. Even if a spell is maxed out, all other levels of it can still 
 be used by releasing the button at the right point on the meter. The problem with this arose when 
 I realized that you can only assign one spell to each level and switching back and forth isn't 
 easy. Since magic is handled with only one button, this means if you have multiple spells assigned, 
 tapping B may fire your lightning, while holding it for one second will shoot fire, and holding 
 it for two seconds will slow time. Many players may like the idea, but it lead me to only using 
 one spell the whole game to avoid confusion.
  
  Leveling up abilities take the same idea that many games are using since God of War. Colored orbs 
 fall from your enemies during battle. Green orbs only appear once an enemy is killed and they supply 
 you with experience that can be spent on any of the three statistics mentioned earlier. Doing significant 
 damage with a specific attack type will supply you with orbs for it's related statistic. Blue orbs 
 come from melee attacks, yellow from Ranged attacks, and red from magic attacks. Most of your experience 
 will come from the stat-specific orbs. You won't get very many green orbs and these can be used 
 to round out your character by improving abilities in areas that you don't regularly use. I really 
 like when games allow you to improve based on the skills you use most and always thought the idea 
 of spending one pool of experience on any skill you want was kind of dumb, so this made me really 
 enjoy playing Fable 2.
  
  The main storyline is fairly simplistic. Basically, a super-evil bad guy wrongs you, so you need 
 to get your revenge and in the process save the world from the aforementioned super-evil bad guy's 
 evil scheme. The simple story is part of the game's charm. It's easy to follow and all of your 
 allies are very likable. Much of the game is fairly funny. You probably won't laugh out loud too 
 often, but it is still very entertaining. The biggest problem I had was that many important conversation 
 begin without you realizing it. Several times, a quest would just appear on my list because I didn't 
 realize the two citizens that I heard murmuring in the corner were actually talking about my next 
 quest and I missed what they were talking about. Since the story isn't too complex, it wasn't too 
 hard to figure out what was going on, but I couldn't help but feel like I missed something.
  
  While the story is good, the best parts of the games will occur when you aren't doing anything 
 related to the main quest. If you are short on cash, jobs are available to make money. You can 
 work as a bartender, woodcutter, or blacksmith. The mini-games behind each are very simplistic 
 but I never got tired of them. The monetary rewards are a bit unrealistic once you get good at 
 them. At one point, I was earning over six hundred gold for every beer I poured in the tavern. 
 If you are more of the type of person that doesn't like doing the work for yourself, you can purchase 
 nearly every building in the game. Every five minutes, you are given your share of the profits 
 or rent money from all of the buildings you own. This money even continues to accumulate a bit 
 more slowly when you aren't playing. I didn't play at all this weekend and came back Monday morning 
 to a nice five thousand gold bonus. I only owned two buildings at this point, so you can imagine 
 how much money will come pouring in later in the game when there are hundreds of building available 
 for purchase. In shops, you can select the mark up (or down) of the items, but not much else. In 
 houses, in addition to setting the rent or making it your own home, you can decorate it with better 
 furniture to make it worth more money.
  
  The social side of the game rivals The Sims in it's complexity. Every single person in the game 
 has their own personal opinion of you based on their observations and popular opinion in town. 
 If you save a whole town from bandits, most people will like you for it, but there will always 
 be a couple that don't like you simply because everyone else does. Each person also has their own 
 personal likes and dislikes. One man in the town square may think it is absolutely hilarious if 
 you jump on a box and fart in front of a crowd, while another will be disgusted. You can even have 
 a people fall in love with you. Since you can become somewhat of a celebrity, many people will 
 love you even before you meet them. In a large town, you will find yourself being followed by a 
 group of the opposite sex with hearts over their heads and a few yelling marriage proposals. Actually 
 if you look closely at the crowd, you will see a few members of the same sex in that crowd, since 
 NPCs are gay, straight, bisexual, or celibate. Once you decide that it is time to get married (either 
 to a person you have been speaking to for a while in the game or just one pulled at random from 
 your crowd of followers) you will need a wedding ring and a house. If you have sex with your spouse, 
 you may have a child. Don't worry if you are playing a female character, you don't have to wait 
 around for nine months before getting back to the adventure. Time jumps ahead for you. Not only 
 do you have to send money back home to support your family, but you will also need to make regular 
 visits back to spend time with them or you may end up divorced. The better you treat your family, 
 the better the gifts they will give you in return when you do come visit them. Some spouses will 
 be more needy while other will be understanding. Also, very early in the game you come across a 
 stray dog that becomes your pet. From then on, he follows you everywhere and helps out however 
 he can. If you knock an enemy on the ground, the dog will jump in and attack. Buried items or hidden 
 treasure are no problem for your dog to sniff out. He also has a personality that always shows 
 through. If he gets bored, he will start to chase his own tail. He will get scared when in dark 
 dungeons until you reassure him. He will always react the way you would expect a real dog to. He 
 may not be vital to success in the game, but I was always glad he was around. The entire social 
 aspect is one of the deepest I have seen in a game. I have spent entire play sessions just wandering 
 around town doing jobs and interacting with people.
  
  Like many games are doing these days, Fable 2 give you the choice to be good or evil. Unlike most 
 of these other games, your choices here have drastic effects on the rest of the world. Be nice 
 to everyone and spend a lot of money in town, it's economy will go up. Terrorizing the townsfolk, 
 stealing items, and murdering shop keepers will cause the economy to drop. This shows the main 
 reason to be evil in the game; low economy means low prices, whether it be items or the shops themselves. 
 Of course, then everyone hates you, so the choice is yours. There are two long breaks in the game 
 that last around ten years each and when it starts back up, you can really see your impact on the 
 world. Help the shop keepers and the good people and, later on, the town will be prospering. Steal 
 money and support the criminals and, several years later, the town will be overrun with thieves 
 and beggars. Many of the choices in the game don't really make you think and the results are fairly 
 obvious. One is clearly good and one is clearly bad. Your choice will be based on what character 
 you have already decided you wanted to be and not on what you would do in real life. Some of the 
 choices don't even have options that make logical sense. The worst was the ghost who asked me to 
 get revenge on the woman that stood him up at the altar by making her fall in love with me and 
 then doing the same thing to her. Your only two options are to do as the ghost says and leave her 
 at the last minute (the evil choice) or marry her ( the good choice) . This means if you want to 
 keep your character good, you have to marry someone you don't actually care about. No one in their 
 right mind would marry someone they just met just because it's the 'right choice.' Why can't we 
 just tell her what is going on and make her confront the ghost? Most of the other quests make sense, 
 but this quest comes early in the game and put a bit of a sour note on the game very early on. 
 I was a bit thrown back by the developer's attempt at forcing their own morals on us. Eating any 
 form of meat is considered not pure and you will gain corruption. I have no problem with people 
 that are vegetarians, but I do have a problem with them when they try to convince me that I am 
 a bad person for eating meat.
  
  Now I come to my only major problem with the game; the map. In short, it's crap. It only takes 
 up about a quarter of the screen on the pause menu and has no zoom function. Not only that, but 
 it only centers on your character and cannot be moved around. Exit's are labeled on the map, but 
 they do not tell you where they go, so learning your way around can be difficult. The map legend 
 is fairly useless as well. Weapon shops are clearly labeled, but clothing shops, hair stylists, 
 and tattoo artist all are labeled as Appearance Shops. If you need to find a potion shop, forget 
 about it. That shop type falls under the category of everything else in Miscellaneous Shops. You 
 can fast travel to any location that you have already visited, but good luck finding somewhere 
 you haven't been. I spent an entire hour wandering the world looking for a town that I had a job 
 in before giving up. Several hours later, I realized that the town I needed to get to wasn't unlocked 
 yet. Add all of these problems together and you come up with the worst map system ever implemented 
 in a game.
  
  The graphics do an amazing job of creating a believable world. Everywhere you go, you will be treated 
 to amazing scenery and impressive visuals. Unfortunately, a very low number of character models 
 and tons of clipping issues mar these otherwise beautiful graphics. It is not uncommon to see three 
 or four of the same person in a crowd and every time you come to a hill, your character's feet 
 will disappear into the ground. A countless number of times, my entire dog would disappear into 
 a rock or wall. Also, when NPCs are traveling with you, they have a hell of a time walking through 
 doors. They will make two or three circles in front of the door until actually walking through. 
 Although these thing hurt the game, it doesn't stop it from having one of the most pleasant worlds 
 to walk around in that I have seen in a long time. Another cool detail is the way your character 
 changes based on your decisions. If you run around as a goody two-shoes and only perform pure actions, 
 you will have much brighter features and a halo over your head. Be an evil bastard and your skin 
 will darken while horns will start to grow. If you gear your character toward melee, their muscles 
 will get bigger and will start to look like professional wrestlers. Magic users will start to have 
 bright blue designs appear on their skin. Working on your Skill will keep your character skinny, 
 but they will start to grow taller. Even though everyone begins the game as one of the same two 
 characters (a male or female) , by the end their appearance will be fairly unique.
  
  The story is good, but the economy and social aspects provide nearly endless fun. Not only is the 
 game a decent length, there is also a ton of replay value since the game can play out differently 
 depending on your actions. If it weren't for the absolutely horrendous map, this could easily have 
 been one of the greatest games of all time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nomad0404
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 28, 2009 3:17 pm PT
Review:  For the sake of completeness this review contains spoilers please bare that in mind when reading.
 
  
  Fable 2 is an RPG where you play the role of a orphan and get to live out their life and see the 
 consquences of their actions on the game world around them
  
  To describe Fable 2 I'd say it's a bit like a 2 sided coin.
  
  On one side of the coin you 
 have the Fable world. And with in this world you have a wonderful array of methods of interaction 
 almost unparalleled in any other game. 
  
  On the other side of the coin you have the main story and associated side quests which help to 
 drive your progression through the game.
  
  To start with it's hard to know whether the game is all about the world and the quest is an distraction 
 from that a bit like real life and gaming. Or whether the world in which you character lives is 
 a distraction from the main quest.
  
  However, both the world and the main quest parts of the game are flawed masterpieces.
  
  Firstly 
 it's not quite a sandbox world, althought the world is beaufifully realised, everywhere you go, 
 you do so via one of the many set paths and although each of the areas within the world are large 
 there is only so much to see. And a lot of that pops up as you walk around.
  
  You use actions rather than words to influence those around you, more of this later, but it's far 
 to easy to influence people I managed to woo a girl, marry her a be married with in a few short 
 game days. 
  
  Money too is relatively easy to get hold of.
  
  The main way to do so at the begining of the game is via one of several jobs, all of which are 
 mini-game deritives that would not be out of place on the Wii - in fact using the Wii-mote to beat 
 swords, chop wood or pull pints might have been slightly more satisfying.
  
  Once you have earnt enough money you can buy properties and rent them out, you then get an income 
 very 5 minutes, and that happens whether you are logged on or not. So inbetween log ons when no 
 game time has passed you can earn tens of thousands of gold coins.
  
  Then there are other smaller slight niggles - you can damage property but you can't repair it so 
 smash the windows on your family des-res and you'll have to move if you want a draft free life. 
 Not that the weather plays any part in the game. 
  
  There's no sense of time passing, sure as eggs is eggs night follows day but there's no weather 
 and no apparent seasons, I know one quest requires you to do it at harvest time but I have no idea 
 when that is. One point in the game requires a lot of time to have past but nothing really changes 
 in the game world.
  
  Another thing that bothered is that you can give your wife clothes as gifts but she'll never change 
 what she wears. You can take the girl out of the village but you can't take the village out of 
 the girl as they say.
  
  And now we are starting to move on with the quests, apart from the main earlier quests and one 
 or two of the side quests the much vaunted moral dillemas are largely absent. This appears to be 
 more left down to whether you want to rob, steal, rape and murder (not quite so much of the rape 
 I suppose) or be nice, heroic and gentlemanly. There's supposed to be a middle ground but it doesn't 
 really exist.
  
  The main story is pretty short and has possibly the most anti-climatic ending I've experienced 
 in a video game. So much so that life just goes on after you've completed it. 
  
  At one point at the end of the quest you've had a fairly tough battle - but are expecting more 
 to come and end up in an in game movie in which you get killed with one shot while unable to do 
 anything about it. To get to this point in the game you weathered hails of bullets, magic, claws 
 and melee from the best the game has to through at you. To die with one bullet shot is ludicrous. 
 But worse than that any chance of revenge you may hope to extract is robbed from you by that very 
 same end game movie experience. 
  
  Because your character doesn't speak at all during the game and no 'Hey Hey wink wink' does not 
 class as speaking, all of the games story and character interaction with your character boils down 
 to a monologue.
  
  Combat is easy to master and will generally revolve around you mastering all three skills; ranged, 
 melee and magic and using a combination of the three - the spell system works and you'll soon be 
 hacking your way through the games assorted monsters, not that there are a huge number of varieties 
 of these. 
  
  Experienced is gained depending on the skill used and this is then spent to advance that skills, 
 there is no level system as such but you do also get to increase your HP via the use of potions.
 
  
  This is another of the problems I have with the game you can essentially buy xp - each skill has 
 potions that you can buy and use to increase that skill - money as already mentioned is plentiful 
 and therefore part of the game is taken away from you as it's made yet more easy.
  
  Once you've bought the potions using them is more problematic, this requires you to enter the menu, 
 select a sub menu then the potions menu, use the potion which then returns you to the game. You 
 then need to repeat this for all of the potions you wish to use.
  
  You can also buy and eat food and suffer the consequences, meat pies maybe lovely to eat but they'll 
 soon lead you to put on the pounds and boy does it show, celery on the other hand is the ultimate 
 sliming food and is recomended if you want to play the frail wizard looking character.
  
  The map is also less than useful and altough the breadcrumb trail that leads to your next quest 
 is very well implemented it's often easy to forget where you are going. 
  
  You can also warp to each of your quests bypassing huge areas of the map - this apparently take 
 vast amounts of time but as previously mentioned time has no meaning in the game once you beome 
 an adult.
  
  Over all the game looks great, the gameplay is fairly solid, but it has lots of little gripes that 
 you just can't help getting frustrated at and wondering whether the games testers at Lionhead were 
 doing there job properly.
  
  If you presented a movie with this ending to a pre-release screening in tinstle town they'd demand 
 you changed it beforethe release.
  
  Summing up I was left wanting an experience the game never quite offers.
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Egonga
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 27, 2009 11:46 am PT
Review:  If Peter Molyneux were a car salesman, he would offer you a hovercar and, instead, deliver a Ferrari. 
 While the Ferrari might be a handsome beast, a top of the range model that'd be the envy of your 
 friends, everytime you looked at it, somewhere in the back of your mind you'd tell yourself "It's 
 good, yes, but is isn't a hovercar..."
  
  Has Fable 2 bucked the trend? Well, yes and no.
  
  A technology called 'dynamic regions' was 
 promised to us at the X06 event in Barcelona, whereby each of your decisions, no matter how minor, 
 would eventually have an impact in the way the game world develops. The game world itself is rendered 
 in absolutely beautiful graphics, featuring amazing water and sunlight effects. You'll find yourself 
 admiring the sun's rays as they try to pierce the leaves of a tree, bathing your character in tiny 
 daggers of light. Colour is also used to good effect. Areas full of honest citizens will be bright, 
 colourful and sunny, like something from a cartoon; yet at the same time is never so garish as 
 to ruin the atmosphere of the game. Evil, twisted areas, overrun by monsters or petty thugs, are 
 shown in dull, muted colours, lending to the feel of the area in a very subtle way.
  
  Such alteration of the colours becomes apparant using the 'dynamic region' technology, where vibrant 
 areas full of colour can quickly become dull messes filled with downtrodden citizens. However, 
 the feature isn't as organic as suggested; simple transactions or damage to the environment don't 
 change a thing. Changes to regions come from quests; quests where you're given straight, honest 
 choices. Do the right thing, and the area will prosper. Do evil, and it will suffer. There are 
 only three such choices throughout the game, meaning only three areas can be affected by your influence. 
 And, in truth, being the bad guy can be very unrewarding; entire communities of shops, from which 
 you could build an empire of commerce, can be destroyed by being evil; it's in your best interests, 
 personally, to do the right thing, making it an unbalanced system.
  
  The game world itself is relatively small when compared to a very similar game, Oblivion. However, 
 each area is more detailed meaning that, although it is smaller, it probably has more content per 
 square foot than The Elder Scrolls series. Sidequests are given their own stories, too, which means 
 that you rarely feel as if you're doing a mindless dungeon crawl; there's always a reason for doing 
 it, something to drag you onwards and keep you interested.
  
  Speaking of commerce, there are several jobs available to you to help raise funds for outfitting 
 and equipping your character. These take the form of very basic minigames that involve pressing 
 the A button at the correct moment. Doing this repeatably, without fault, with grant you multipliers, 
 and therefore more money. Sadly, this is as dull as dishwater, and once you've earned enough money 
 to get onto the property market you'll never feel the inclination to return to them.
  
  So far, so bad, right? All the aspects tacked on to the game such as socialising, jobs, buying 
 property and gambling will hold your interest only for as long as you need them; you'll never find 
 yourself wanting to head back into town and start dancing for people. Thankfully, the core of the 
 game - the story and the combat - are truly fantastic.
  
  The combat system is simplistic, but fun. X is for melee; pressing it will unleash an attack. Holding 
 it will perform a block. Holding it with a direction will charge a power attack. Threading together 
 a combo of attacks will increase the damage of each consecutive attack. Pressing X and towards 
 an enemy will perform a counter. Y, the Ranged attack button, and B, the Will button, also handle 
 multiple tasks. It may sound like each button is overloaded, but when you're playing it just seems 
 so natural, so responsive. It also helps that each skill is unlocked as you progress and spend 
 your experience points in Strength, Skill and Will; in this manner, you're introduced gradually 
 to all the moves of combat. By mixing it up, by smoothly switching between the three disciplines 
 in combat, you earn style bonuses which increase the experience earned. You'll find yourself dodging, 
 slashing, shooting and spellcasting like a madman, rather than sticking with simple attacks, to 
 get that experience bonus.
  
  The story is good too, although somewhat cliched. Loved one dies, swear revenge, evil madman trying 
 to stop the world... you've seen it all before. However, the game provides enough twists and turns 
 to keep you interested, and has a likeable cast of characters that are well voice-acted. Sadly, 
 however, the ending is somewhat weak; I won't go into spoilers, but the final encounter with the 
 main villain will leave you disappointed.
  
  So, has Molyneux delivered the goods? Yes and no. No, this isn't a fully realised world where your 
 every action influences it's development; your choices in this regard are limited. And no, there 
 aren't an abundance of fun minigames to wile away the wee hours of the morning. However, what you 
 do get is an excellent, fun combat system and a well told story that will keep you interested, 
 even if you can see what's coming ahead. At it's core, it's a great game, and one that should be 
 enjoyed by all.
  
  This isn't the hovercar we were promised, but it isn't a Ferrari either. It's somewhere inbetween; 
 it's a jetpack. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sonic_Wolfe
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 26, 2009 11:31 am PT
Review:  The choice between destroying your foe in a blaze of maniacal glory abreast the spoils of war with 
 all the booty you can loot. Or accept the fate of the good man, backing down and allowing karma 
 to reward you later down the line. This is the most definitive choice the brave and sometimes lackluster 
 Peter Molyneux has worked towards giving his public.
  Black and White was his first attempt and although he didn't give us exactly what he said he would, 
 he did however give us the clear and direct choice between good and evil, no polar grey areas, 
 just up and down. His masterpiece (some say) Fable further took into account the choices of a hero, 
 but this time, you could chose to be the villain. If you didn't want to save a village, but instead 
 wanted it to burn, you could invite opportunity to hasten it, hell you could even do it yourself.
 
  Now, some years on, after a severe scalding by the public for Fable and everything he did not 
 give to us, Molyneux has taken his time, and this time, given us far greater and much deeper experience 
 in the form of Fable 2
  YOU are Sparrow, a street urchin destined for greatness. This time you can now choose to be a girl 
 or a boy and this is the first choice of many you will make on the journey of taking revenge for 
 the death of your older sister and the attempt upon your own life.
  At first the gaming world is confined to a small run of 'go here and collect this' type of quests 
 all marked with big yellow exclamation marks, similar to another RPG game I know. :-p. In fact 
 much of the game will play like this; sending you all over Albion to kill this monster, steal that 
 gem or fix this problem. It is how you chose to do those things that make all the difference. The 
 choices this time around are not always so obvious, and one act can mar you for life, so be careful. 
 No matter how good, or evil you will become, someone will always remember you for what they know 
 you did.
  Like in the first Fable, Sparrow will level up by the acquisition of orbs, red, blue and yellow; 
 which each focus on physical, magical and agile skills respectively. However each kill will also 
 render green orbs which work as general currency to be used in all three skill sets. The spells 
 and skills at your control are both powerful and very easy to use, but not to the point where combat 
 is too shallow or becomes tiring. Even running all over the world has become easier with a waypoint 
 system.
  You can get married, have kids, you can catch an STD, and you can rob, steal, murder and even evict 
 tenants to properties you own. You can be a polygamist, you can never marry, you can own a shop, 
 or even an entire property empire. There is literally plenty to do. Of course if you decide to 
 be too unforgiving and pull the game apart and focus on what you cannot do, the game will fall 
 apart. Then of course you will have missed the point and wasted your money.
  It is this bewitching collection of missions and options that truly set Fable 2 apart from its 
 predecessor, of course you can clearly see that Fable has influenced the sequel, but Fable 2 expands 
 the world impressively. This is all captured and flaunted by how the game looks and sounds. Albion 
 has had an epic makeover. When you are first released into the world to make your name you are 
 presented with a breath taking landscape view of Albion from atop of a very large hill, you will 
 be stunned. This is further stapled into gaming richness by the mesmerizing sound track. Some very 
 well orchestrated pieces accompany you all over your journey and they change so fluently. One moment 
 its gentle guitar strokes and the next when you are in combat its fast beats and eclectic tunes.
 
  However, it as this point where I must give special mention to the utterly fantastic voice acting 
 talent. My hat comes off to Zoe Wanamaker as Theresa, the guide to Sparrow's entire journey. Her 
 voice is calm and warm. The perfect British accompaniment to the perfect British tale. Don't be 
 fooled though, Stephen Fry as Reaver or Julia Sawalha as Hammer, even Ron Glass as Garth are all 
 marvelous in their roles and more than make up for the fact Sparrow never speaks.
  Fable 2 really is more than the sum of its parts. Despite Fable failing to deliver on so many points, 
 Molyneux has went to great length to ensure that the same mistakes have not been repeated, and 
 he succeeds and should be very proud of his latest outing, that is not to say the game has not 
 got flaws, it's just that the flaws arise from the game type and what it aims to conceal, not what 
 it does wrong.
  If you were a fan of the first Fable, Fable 2 is not a game you want to miss. The greatest treat 
 as an RPG fan you can give yourself is this title, just spin up the disc and allow it to take you 
 away, experience it and don't allow naysayers to take it apart.
  Classic.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: evratto
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 26, 2009 11:09 am PT
Review:  It is a fantastic and disconcerting game at the same time, very good graphics, (but could have 
 done better with the characters) , very good sound, very good story, good fighting system, innovative 
 one key target and shoot system, great playground mazes and dungeons. 
  
  I always choose a woman as the main character, if I had to see her back throughout all the game, 
 I prefer at least a nice view. But in this game wasn't like this and here is the first disappoint, 
 she grows becoming ugly and fat, forcing you in the first quarter of the game to abandon any quest 
 to go back and forth between the shops buying celery to loose some weight and play at least with 
 a thin ugly woman .... This inconvenience gets partially solved when after the first Game-End found 
 the potion of sex change in a dungeon somewhere. Now, I play with an Ugly, Rich, Well Armed Old 
 man that for this case makes more sense to me .
  
  When you've already solved the issue of overweight buying the entire possible "celeries" and keep 
 a special foods diet, you start with the quests until, before you imagine, you're involved in what 
 seems the beginning of the end of the game, and you are in the middle of a very uncomfortable situation 
 because you don't want to finish the game due to the thousand unfinished quests and places to visit. 
 But also you cant go back once this sequence starts But the game doesnt care and drive you directly 
 to a force end followed (fortunately) by a new beginning, and here starts the real deal to become 
 a rich and strong character to continue the story and finish with each quests. 
  
  I would not call this game inmersive or addictive, but rather an innovative, comfortable and entertaining 
 game for the whole family. Nor can I call this game an RPG, since it can be as well action or adventure, 
 is a well-balanced mix of action, adventure, and shooter RPG. The game is very easy to play most 
 of the time, and I mean it because my grandmother could play it up. The firing system and the management 
 and improvement of the superpowers are fascinating to all who play. The dog gives the game a special 
 aggregate value, its something more than a simple treasure finder. the social system, the chance 
 to be good or bad, changing different mood interactions between the dog or the game population, 
 the online all time connection with other game players in their own games who can help you or you 
 can get information without interrupting your game or allow you to join up and much more innovations 
 make this definitely one of the best games of 2008 and one of the best kinda RPG game I've ever 
 played.
  
  Im very pleased to have it in my collection.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Luigi081
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 26, 2009 8:48 am PT
Review:  The world of Albion has moved on since Fable: Lost Chapters (PC, Xbox) , but this new adventure 
 is a cut above. You start as a homeless boy or girl in the mist of Bowerstone Old Town, trying 
 to get to Fairfax Castle. You do quest right at the beginning where you collect 5 gold pieces, 
 but your choices you make will shape Bowerstone Old Town forever. 
  As you become an adult you learn the 3 disciplines Strength, Skill and Will (where you collect 
 experienced from creatures, like in the Fable) . Your choices shape the whole of Albion and the 
 appearance (go down good you get a halo, go down evil path you get devil horns) .
  During the game you need to find the 3 heroes Hero Strength, Hero of Will and the Hero of Skill. 
 This will include getting renown and doing quest for them.
  On the downside Fable 2 you make money to easily, good and evil paths aren't balanced and the mapping 
 is lousy.
  The new DLC Knothole Island is fun to play with new weapons, armour and quests, but it is quite 
 short and well I think it is slightly over priced.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Bone_Eater
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 25, 2009 5:38 pm PT
Review:  Fable 2 is a lot better then Fable why because Graphics are 10 times better plus the level are 
 better plus the story line and everything is good. I would recommend this game to be played and 
 Buy but to be sure i would rent it before playing the game This how the game starts you choose 
 to be a male boy and a female girl around 6 or seven years old. You live with your older sister 
 and your parents are died Wow what a tough life. Your name in the game would be sparrow if you 
 are a boy i don't know much about being a girl but anyway you live in a town called brownstone 
 which is mildly a poor town i believe. you and your sister are poor but you do quests latter on 
 to get money. Well that's all i will tell you i don't want to spoil the whole story if you haven't 
 played the game. The whole games really fun i would recommend people to play this game. If you 
 don't like the game don't blame me i am just saying wait i think about the game but please play 
 the game if did not enjoy the first Fable i swear play fable 2 it might be a difference to you 
 like it was to me playing the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ominusd7
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 25, 2009 1:35 pm PT
Review:  Having played the orginal to death, I was extremely excited about the second game. Although I did 
 not get it at launch, I am very pleased to have this game in my collection. 
  
  First off is the story. I would have to say the story is about the same, quality-wise, as the original. 
 I really enjoyed certain quests and some made me want to tear my hair out because the game became 
 challenging, and I enjoyed those parts as well. While I'm not going to ruin the ending, a simple 
 choice really tears you on a personal level. Unlike some I did not find the final moments of the 
 game dissappointing, but rather exactly how things should be. There are characters to hate, love, 
 and simply laugh at. Overall I found this story very well written and it fits well with the theme 
 of the game.
  
  Next is the gameplay. The combat this time around seems much more fluid. The fact that each branch 
 of combat is mapped to only an idivual key makes things easy to pick up but there is much more 
 depth than just this. Learning to time flourishes, chain attacks, reversals, and other styles makes 
 you feel like you are progressing in your combat prowess as the game progress. The variety of weapons 
 offers new prospectives to each situation such as using a flintlock rifle to snipe from afar or 
 a blunderbuss while rushing head-on into the fray or a hammer to smash through undead. The new 
 firearms do not completely rule the field of combat as melee weapons still hold devasting effects 
 on enemies. The new augments greatly help the new combat system with a wide variety ranging from 
 offensive to defensive to a bit of both. also teaming up with a friend in co-op can lead to some 
 memorable moments, such as one person charging an area effect vortex while the other charges an 
 area effect inferno creating a tornado of fire!
  
  The world of Albion has greatly changed in the 500 years since the last visit. The most obvious 
 change is the shear size of it compared to the previous. The world is much more open no longer 
 just a series of linear path, but expansive forests and marshes. The ability to jump fences and 
 obstacles as well as swim and leap off cliffs helps to further expand this openness. The world 
 is shaped by your choices, from the appearance down to the economy of a town or village. You see 
 the affects of your choices in a way that wasn't captured in the original. The people all individual 
 tastes and dislikes, making appeasing everyone a formittable task. The music that you hear while 
 travelling the realm of Ablion is top notch. From the peaceful sounds of Bower lake to the eerie 
 and disturbing music of Wraithmarsh the music fits perfectly for the situation.
  
  Being the hero you want to be is the staple of the Fable franchise and in Fable II they have made 
 great strides to completing that goal. While there isn't any armor, unless you have the Knothole 
 Island DLC, there is a wide variety of clothing option and the ability to dye those clothes furthers 
 the feel that this is your hero. 
  
  However nothing is perfect and Fable II is no exception. The story is a bit on the short side, 
 one of the unfortunate similarities it has with the original. While justified the time period, 
 the lack of armor is still a bit of a disappointment as certain heroic aspects can never quite 
 be realized. The serious downgrades made on the number of melee weapon categories, while not major, 
 some weapons are greatly missed. the co-op seems to have been merely an after thought and not well 
 put together , especially when picking the look of your henchmen. I personally haven't experieneced 
 any glitches or gfame crashing bugs there have been reports of them and the patch has seemed to 
 fix some but not all of those.
  
  Overall Fable II is a truly memorable experience full of choices. This is a game you will want 
 to play more than once just to see how different the world be after certain choices. While not perfect 
 this is a game I highly recommend to anyone with an Xbox 360 and an affinity for RPG's. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: commandorC
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 25, 2009 8:33 am PT
Review:  After playing the first Fable game and enjoying myself with it, I looked forward to Fable 2 with 
 much anticipation. Soon after picking the game up I was thrust into the game and was a tad confused, 
 the controls were quite hard to get at the start and I was a tad confused on the reason why your 
 characters where on the street. After the childhood phase though the game became easier to understand 
 and I started grasping concepts well. The game's graphic's had shown well and were used well but 
 I would encounter moments when whole building would pop into view. Character interaction in the 
 game was a tad difficult to master because pressing the info about villager was also the "pull 
 out ranged weapon and shoot target" button, as well villager would swarm me and block me from leaving 
 areas quite often and other times would follow me into combat and cause me to become evil as I 
 was fighting bandits off. Villagers also lack memory apparently because at one point I had shot 
 out a window and electrocuted a guard, then I made a thumbs up and people went from screaming and 
 crying to clapping. On the whole though it felt that it was better than Fable 1. Quests in Fable 
 2 felt good and there were many to chose from, the rewards however where lackluster and horrible. 
 The story quests where very good but to me they were to short, and the ending boss fight was to 
 easy.
  
  To finish this up: Fable 2 would be a recommended buy or rent, it has enough content to keep you 
 busy and DLC is already out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MonsterHunterX9
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 25, 2009 5:11 am PT
Review:  Ok first of all this is my first review :) . LOL. okok back to the review
  Basically, the overall story is great but then the last boss fight IS WAY TOO EASY!!! (I don't want 
 to spoil for some of u) The graphics are ok, story is great, and the online play, i don't it is very 
 good. Just a few orbs hanging about and joining other people game and nothing more. Ok, then finally 
 the knothole island, DON'T GET IT. Its a waste of money. Around $10 for just a little expansion?? 
 I think its too expensive!!! Now to the weapons. I think the variety of selection is too little. 
 From Rusty to Master and then get the legendary, its a bit too little. They should make a wider 
 selection of weapon ( In terms of the Rusty to Master) . And then your little doggie by your side. 
 I think they should include the death of your doggie in the ending there PLUS i don't the AI is 
 really STUPID. The doggie don't fight a lot. Mine is a 5 star and then i knock the opponent down, 
 then nothing happens. My dog just stand there barking like one hell of a dog. -.-" Then the Limited 
 Collector Edition. I got it and luckily mine is not the one with the code :D. The Edition just 
 contains one 48 hours XBL gold and a code for the halo suit. Nothing more. The sword and suit looks 
 cool and funny but the weapon attack is seriously LOW LOW LOW!!!
  
  
  
  This game is not a must buy but its still worth buying, playing, and geting the achievements :D. ( 
 And i wish no more empty LCE boxes again :D)
  Happy New Year!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GURU-LINX
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 21, 2009 3:54 pm PT
Review:  I can honestly say that i loved playing this game. the graphics great, the gameplay fantastic and 
 the storyline engrossing. For those who have not played it think The Sims mixed with Oblivion and 
 you're on the right track.
  
  Without telling you everything, the story of Fable 2 goes like this. You start out either as a 
 little Girl or Boy (your choice) who lives, basically, on the streets with their sister. You start 
 out the game doing tasks and errands for other people to get money to buy a Magic box (we'll get 
 back to that later) . As you go round you'll slowly get to grips with the controls, get your first 
 quick glimps of the amazing landscapes & size and hopefully enjoy the hilarious things you and 
 the other characters do (Social farts) and say (Great voice actors) . Oh yeah and eventually gain 
 enough money to get the Magic box, as you and your sister would use it to wish that someday you 
 could live in the Grand castles that overlooks the village you live in.
  
  Using the box your wish is granted, but at a price, as the man who lives in the castle, Lord Lucien, 
 summons you and reveals that you and your sister have "Hero's Blood" and he must eliminate you 
 both in order to rebuild a long forbidden Tower and those with Hero's blood would be the only ones 
 with the power to stop him. He shoots your sister dead and shoots you out of a window (but thankfully 
 you survive) .
  
  Your main goal throughout the rest of the game will be to get revenge for your sisters death, stop 
 the Tower from being used and ultimately Kill Lord Lucien.
  
  Overall i think this is a great game and the concept of being able to customize your character 
 decide whether you'll be very good or extremely evil makes it all the more fun. So whether you 
 play it for the gameplay, story line or the simple pleasures of seeing just how many people you 
 can kill in one sitting i can assure you this game is a keeper and will bring you hours of fun. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kaehosser
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 21, 2009 12:17 pm PT
Review:  Is it in DLC? The game just felt way too short, and it was glitchy. I think they rushed this. I 
 played the original Fable at least 4 times and loved it... but this felt like a step backward. 
 I mean the game is pretty and the combat and such is still fun, but I played through once and started 
 to play through a second time but just quit. Not interested enough.
  
  It felt like this game was made for just anyone to pick up and play, like Medievil from the PS 
 One - a great game, but I expect more from my games now.
  
  1.) Too short and too easy. Not enough meat.
  
  2.) It's an RPG, right? Shouldn't there be 
 a lot more customization?
  
  3.) Why are there so many sound glitches?
  
  4.) Hackneyed story.
  
  5.) Where's the huge bosses? Where are the super weapons? Where's the 
 endless graveyard of zombies that you get ridiculous combat multipliers and satisfying crunch feelings 
 when you break them with a hammer?
  
  6.) Why does the chick look like a big fat guy when I max out her strength? 
  
  7.) Why do 
 I get to finish the supervillain with a quick headshot?
  
  You're supposed to IMPROVE on your games, not take them a step back in order to implement a dog 
 or co-op play. Go back and look at the original Fable - add more customization, write a better 
 story, and improve the graphics. Please. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: flinty_baby
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 20, 2009 12:13 pm PT
Review:  now i was really excited about this game, i remember watching the first videos of it at e3 07 and 
 remembered peter say you will never see the same move twice and will not master all of the combos. 
 i also remember stuff that got left out ie bar fights and using the environment (chandelier and 
 chairs) to fight.
  I got the game the day it came out, special addition and put it in...
  
  From the start it did not look like an up to date graphics game, which was disappointing, then 
 the camera can get annoying but as a gamer and a player who was hyped i quickly got use to this 
 game. As you play on and find (spoiler) there is no armour to wear, it disappoints some more. As 
 you play on it is fun the combat is really well done. Yet overall it is very short which really 
 is unacceptable. to say they were working on it for ages and came out with this and the side missions 
 are a joke, there c**p. 
  
  However if your thinking of getting it, i ask you what other games are there which is like this? 
 All the xbox360 focuses on is shooting basically. You can't get games like this anymore, which 
 is why i gave it such a good score and gamespot too. It didn't deserve that for many reasons, i 
 haven't mentioned glitches because i was lucky not to have any but there that as well. This is 
 a unique game for the Xbox, some people might say oblivion is like this but no, oblivion is just 
 not as fun. You want to enjoy a game and this brings you enjoyment, the old school combat with 
 combos and button bashing. Games like this need to make a return. They went out a few years back 
 because there was so many but they need to come back for the simple reason is there fun. We need 
 more action/adventure where you get more choices what to wear, what weapons to use and have secret 
 ones which are more powerful. 
  This game may convince people to make more action/adventure similar but at the time this game is 
 needed. However i reccomend buying it preowned for cheaper, its not worth 40 or 30. 
  
  If this game was in a string of similar games 6/10
  Due to its uniqueness in this time of fps 
 8/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zack90attack
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 20, 2009 4:41 am PT
Review:  Fable II
  
  Fable is a game when you can play over and over and over again, the story goes around about this 
 boy who haves hero blood in him so the first hero's sister of fable comes to contact him, his sister 
 gets killed buy this power greed when he discovers that he and she haves this blood he kills her 
 so the little boy wants to get revenge for his sister, and it turns out that he is going to rebuild 
 a long forbidden tower, his job is to avenge his sister death and stop the evil from building this 
 tower.
  
  The goodies:
  1-A big jump from the fable to fable II
  2-The ability of will that doesn't have a meter for it
  3-A Pet that helps you to find hidden 
 treasure and for buried stuff
  4-the cross combination of use of fighting skill
  5-You can buy anything you want and using expressions is a real time killer but not real joy out 
 of it.
  
  The Baddies:
  1-Using Ranged weapons in a fight will let the enemy use it too, weird when you don't use it they 
 won't use it?!?!?!
  2-people sometimes clog you in a place for example in the bars when they follow you into it they 
 will block the way out.
  3-The story is great but very short I felt that fable 1 was longer
  4-Money is a big deal and 
 some people it's a piece of cake but some stuff require a lot of money like the mansion that cost 
 a million and some other for a hundred grand but working is kind of boring and slow and when you 
 buy stores the money that comes just won't do (I myself bought a bar, bookstore, houses and stands 
 And still I only get 1500 every often but for gathering money it's a hard deal
  As for Graphics and Game Play
  It is great what fable did with its graphics and game play
  
 
  Graphics are great especially when you are fighting when the flourish is done the time is slowed 
 and the graphics are hired to a greater level
  The game play goes from great to superb the combination between ranged weapons and melee and even 
 will are great times slows down when you use a variety of them but mostly melee and will are the 
 best because it causes greater damage and endless fighting possibilities, ranging weapons has a 
 bad side just like I said they will start using it too
  
  I highly recommend this game for anyone who is thinking of getting it
  Great choice of gaming 
 and especially for gamers who want to get hooked to a game for a period of time when you finish 
 the games story mode there will still be quests for you to do and they won't stop coming so the 
 game doesn't end that soon and is great for extend time of playing for example you liked the game 
 but the story mode is ended so they made this so that everyone could enjoy it even thou it has 
 been ended.
  If there is any request of gaming reviews or suggestions I will be glad to reply
  
  Thank you
 
  
  Zack 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aquanox334
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 19, 2009 9:59 pm PT
Review:  Fable 2, a sequel to a legend in my eyes. I waited for this game to come out for such a long time 
 it was redicioulous. And all i heard was awesome things about it that; it was going to be better 
 than the first one a hundred fold. But lets be truthful about this game. It didn't really live 
 up to the hype that it was going to be, and this was personally disappointing for me because i 
 beat the game in less than two days and i owned every building including the castle. But anyways 
 don't let that turn u off to this game because there are still many good qualities.
  Lets start with the graphics for this game. Simple gorgious, i loved the art style of the first 
 one and this one was downer. The CG are still basic drawings, but they always seem to get the job 
 done giving justice to the situation. All the animations seem to run smoothley, even if there were 
 tons of enemies on the screen. The one thing i never did see was the scaring system, but i only 
 died once in the game. Though, i still never saw my scar.
  Next playability, Love it or hate it, this game is about as fluid as it gets. Its combat system 
 is smooth even switching from magic to swords or vice virsa. There is rarely any camera issues 
 that i noticed but i may be wrong about that. The one thing about fable 2 is that it is a really 
 easy game. I leveled my character to basically all full stats except the ranged ones in less than 
 20 hours of play. But that could be because i have no life so i never can tell.
  Multiplayer wise i have no clue. At the time i didn't have x box live so i dont really know if 
 it was good or not, cause i sold my copy of Fable 2 back, mind u that is the only game ive ever 
 sold back.
  So, over all fable 2 is a medocre game that does have a few nice suprises, but over all the first 
 fable did more justice than this game could ever do. So i would advice a rental because you just 
 might find out that this game is just to easy for some peoples tastes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spoon1138
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 19, 2009 6:29 pm PT
Review:  I loved Fable. It was the one game I spent more time in than any other original xbox game. So its 
 an understatement saying that I've been waiting for this game for a long, long time.
  
  I got my copy at the midnight launch, which was this quiet little thing - not the EVENT that was 
 the release of Halo 3. But oh well, five minutes in line meant more game-time that night.
  
  Its been 3 months since release so everything that can be said has been said. I just wish there 
 could be more motivation for continuing to play the game after you complete the story mode. Aside 
 from a few achievements there really isn't much reason aside from completing all 3 endings. That 
 and the fact that so much stuff got pulled from the limited edition that I'm a little miffed with 
 the extra 10 dollars I threw down. Esspecially since Microsoft has still not addressed the issue 
 of the number of limited editions that did not include the download codes to unlock the spartan 
 armor and covenant energy sword.
  
  I've been struggling with customer service for the longest time but at this point I don't care 
 if I ever get it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GRAW2596
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 19, 2009 4:20 pm PT
Review:  Fable 2 is a lot of fun. There are tons of stuff to do from side-quests, jobs, exploring, etc. 
 Fable 2 takes place in Albion five hundred years after the first Fable.
  
  There are both interactive and non-interactive cut-scenes in the game. In the fully interactive 
 cut-scenes the player can use their expressions during the dialogue. The players companion is a 
 dog that the player meets as a child. The dog follows you everywhere you go. It can learn tricks, 
 fight enemies, find treasure and sometimes lead the way to quest objectives. The appearance of 
 your dog will reflect the appearance of your character. If your neutral it will remain grey, being 
 good will turn your dogs coat to a golden brown, and being bad will turn it to black.
  
  It is possible for the character to get married including the same-sex marriage and have children. 
 You can divorce your spouse or the spouse will divorce you if you treat her badly. To keep a stronger 
 bond between you and your family you have to spend time and interact with them. The relationships 
 are initiated by flirting, gift-giving and some different expressions. You can have sex with your 
 spouse or a prostitute. Unprotected may lead to child birth, but also to Sexually Transmitted Diseases.
 
  
  Good players in the game will look good with tanned skin and light hair, while evil players will 
 look scarier with pale skin and black hair. Pure players will have a clear complexion and a halo, 
 while corrupt players will have red veins over their entire body and horns sticking out of their 
 head. It is possible to be good and corrupt or evil yet pure. Your character will also get slim 
 or fat depending on what the player eats. Fruits and vegetables will make the player thin and alcohol, 
 meat and pies will make you fatter. Leveling up skills will also have an effect on the players 
 appearance. A high strength will make them look more muscular, high skill level will make them 
 taller, and a high will level will create glowing blue veins all over the body.
  
  There are also jobs you can do. The jobs are Blacksmith, Woodcutter, Bartender, Assassin, Civilian 
 Displacement (slaving) and Bounty Hunting. The first three will have you hit the "A" button during 
 certain times and the next three are combat related. Jobs become available depending on how much 
 renown you have, and how far you are in the game. Trade jobs can be leveled up by five promotions 
 allowing for more money to be made.
  
  There is a coop mode where players can drop in and out of other players games whenever they want. 
 The host player can set certain rules such as if friendly fire is active and other rules so they 
 can't mess up your town. The joining player has to choose a pre-made character instead of bringing 
 in their own. They cannot buy property, gamble or accept quests in their friends world.
  
  This is a really cool game the graphics are well done with more of an art style then real life. 
 I would really recommend picking this game up, there will be lots to do so you won't get bored. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dragonwhite88
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 19, 2009 8:14 am PT
Review:  I had Fable for the XBOX and it was enjoyable but lacked depth of story and lack of customisation 
 a the start. The same goes for Fable 2.
  To me there is not much difference between the two cuz the graphics are pretty much the same, the 
 story is, again, not very drawing, the lack of customisation and (in my opinion) lack of good cut 
 scenes. Oh and still your character is once again a mute. But with all that aside Fable 2 is quite 
 enjoyable due to the vast world, plenty to do, the introduction of the guns and obviously the dog. 
 I got a few good hours out of it and achievements but when i was towards the end i was expecting 
 a big fight with Lucien but...... after chasing him through out the game...... begging for a taste 
 of revenge..... you just electricute him lol. If Lionhead decide to make a third they should definatly 
 put alot of improvements in it because having one similar to another can, maybe, be excused but 
 three all the same... well i wouldnt buy it.
  
  xx x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mandalorian_81
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 16, 2009 9:07 pm PT
Review:  After reading a lot of bad reviews about this game I was quite put off from buying it, however 
 ive never been one to believe in reviews 100% so i thought sod it ill just get it anyway and im 
 glad i did.
  
  I really really enjoyed this game, and actually i still am enjoying it and will be for months to 
 come because theres just so much to do ! I think you could spend months on end playing this game 
 before you completed everything.
  
  The best way i can describe this game would be to say that it is like a watered down version of 
 Oblivion which is much more accessible by gamers of all kinds instead being aimed solely at the 
 RPG market.
  Nothing is overdone in the game, the magic, weapons and everything else is easily upgradable, its 
 just a case of collecting experience orbs from your combat in order to purchase your upgrades or 
 alternatively you can purchase potions which will give you exp orbs to boost them up.
  
  There nothing that really bogs you down in this game, nothing that is tedious or too mundane. Well 
 perhaps the jobs that you can take on in various shops are pretty boring but you dont have to take 
 on those jobs at all since they dont seem to have any bearing on the story besides earning you 
 some easy money.
  
  The graphics and sounds are all pretty impressive, theres some great sunset effects to be seen 
 as well as some gorgeous cut scenes.
  
  I think actually that if i was to really review this game fully it would take far too much space 
 becaue fable has so much to offer so ill make it very short to end it.
  The story isnt the best ive seen but its not bad either.
  The playability is high since theres 
 so much to do and so many different ways to do it.
  The choices and outcomes of the situations you encounter will keep you amused and most likely will 
 make you play the game again just to see what the outcomes of your adventures would have been if 
 you did it the other way around.
  
  I do fully recommend this game to both hard core RPG addicts but i also highly recommend this game 
 to anyone who wants to test the waters of RPG games since its so easy to get into and dosnt bog 
 you down with too much stats and little details.
  
  One of the reasons i didnt give this game a 10 is because there are a few bugs here and there which 
 are mildly annoying when you encounter them as well as some aspects of the game that could have 
 been done better to make life easier.
  For example, lets say you just bought a bunch of potions to boost your exp orbs, you will have 
 to go back forth into the items menu in order to use each one instead of being able to use them 
 all and then leave the menu, its things like that which bugged me a bit but it didnt put me off 
 the gameplay.
  The bugs i mentioned are things like sometimes the aim of your ranged weapon likes to get stuck 
 and sometimes your damn dog fools around for ages when its supposed to finding you some treasure.
 
  
  All in all its a fantastic game and it left me wanting another game in the series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bellben_wolf
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 16, 2009 4:33 pm PT
Review:  I have meet a lot of glitches and flaws now where to start?
  I have found many times that my dog glitches and slides in a weird way going to the front and bandits 
 also have done that and once the dog got stuck in a mountain but i just had to move into a connecting 
 area to get him back.
  Fights are very button mashed the only thing why someone would not mash the buttons to win is bacause 
 its too boring to do so, so fights are fun but could be won with no effort whenever you want to 
 and the dog only makes me fell bad when he is injured not fun to play with him.
  And one of the most annoying thing was the lack of freedom, there where alot of immortal people 
 and the most hatefull of them all where the kids now you can't even hit them, at least on fable 
 1 you could hit them not kill them though.
  The worlds were not fun to explore you made a turn, open a chest dig some stuff and maybe shoot 
 a gargoyle and not much more the enemies always appeared at the same locations usualy same enemies 
 and same numbers.
  I don't care that much about graphics or story or soundtrack unless those are really outstanding.
 
  The loading times are awful.
  Many quests are short.
  They took out armors.
  Bad death penalty.
  I always prefered bows more than crossbows but that was because of their 
 firing speed so guns compensate that.
  Legendary weapons suck, you could buy a master weapon with augmentation slots and put the same 
 augments as the legendary weapon had but more powerful.
  Demon doors are well made, I find them more puzzling that they were before but they usualy have 
 c*** inside them.
  Becoming evil is alot more easy than becoming good
  
  Even though i pointed out many bad things about the game, i still find it fun to play but it could 
 have been humongously better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Buccy
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 16, 2009 5:34 am PT
Review:  GOOD: The best thing about Fable II is the atmosphere. Each landscape has it's feel to it. Rookridge, 
 gnarly and gloomy... Oakfield, beautiful and peaceful - fireflies and rabbits. The little things 
 developers do to bring a mood or a feeling is something I truly appreciate and Fable II is the 
 KING of that, bar none.
  
  The variety of things to do was eye opening really. I read all about it but once I dove into the 
 game it was like, WOW I can really do whatever I want. Working for money is a nice little addition, 
 but the guy at the bar complimenting you on every mug of ale? Yeah Im going to get 30 evil points 
 when I lop his head off. Buying houses, and fixing them up... just flat out fun.
  
  I finally got hitched to that Alex girl. Married and it took my 5 times and a ton of gifts to finally 
 bang boots and I got a kid. Really nice, I brought gifts all the time paid close attention, was 
 there all the time but during my Cruciable she divorced me. I was in between 4 and 5 and I get 
 a message she has left the area and divorced me. **** Have not bothered with that since I will 
 try some more when I am not in the middle of saving Albion.
  
  Fighting is really fun and you can do alot of different things plus they put a little drama in 
 the action with slow motion kills and other moves you can do to kill your opponent. Weapons are 
 "ok." Don; t like guns in any kind of RPG set in that scenario, but none the less they are useful. 
 I am still a in your face slash and/or fireball type player. Oddly enough I hate hack and slash 
 games, but love the open ended medieval RPG style games that make you think and give you plenty 
 of options.
  
  NPC's are the best I have ever experienced in ANY game by far. The way the change to you in just 
 changing your shirt or letting a fart go. It can become a little redundent but I keep adding expressions 
 and getting different reactions. Little things like that set Fable away from any other game really.
 
  
  I could go on about many things, like the Dog, or coloring your clothing, or changing your hairstyle, 
 but I don't have time really LOL!
  
  BAD: One thing I noticed off the bat was the swimming and getting out of the water. That is really 
 flawed and should change, the splash when your already in the water, and trying to get out of the 
 water sometimes can be tricky. As BIG as Fable II is compared to the original Fable, it seems it 
 still is pretty small. I am very spoiled with Oblivion where after 200+ hours of game play I still 
 haven't seen everything. There is ALOT of places to see but it still feels very limited, especially 
 early on in the game.
  
  The game is linear, not so much half way through but early on it is FIGHT or dont play the game 
 which was disappointing. OVERALL: A great game with a few glitches I have found work arounds. When 
 I can stop in the middle of a field in Oakfield, while the sun rises and blinds me, and have my 
 fiance (who hates video games) go "oh my god, thats amazing" that game is a winner to me. I can 
 sit in that field all day and slowly drift off to sleep in my bed (360 in bedroom) . A few odd things 
 that bother me but over all a homerun that I plan on playing for the next couple months (much to 
 the dismay of my fiance) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: samage21
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 15, 2009 4:15 pm PT
Review:  I think its a great game, but they took all little to many features of the old game, and add stupid 
 ones like purity and corruption. They also made it to short (It took two hours to complete most 
 of the quests and achievements.) I would give it a high score but they messed it, and made us wait 
 to long. They also changed the color of strength experience and will experience. Though I like 
 they took out the guild training, but again they take out the guild. I also hate that they took 
 so long to make it (about 3 years) , but they did make you have the choice of making a girl character. 
 They also made a sex change potion but it is unable to make you avoid getting your wife pregnant. 
 I have seen better games, but I've seen is worse. You can play this game and find many cool new 
 features like multiplayer in which you can set how much experience and gold your friend gets but 
 they have to have a save file and can't play as their character. I personally am a Fable Veteran 
 ( Played the original for years, amazing right?) and say this is almost equal to the original. 
 I give it any 8.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: azrattlehead
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 15, 2009 12:52 am PT
Review:  It's a good game for the most part, and it seems to build on you as you play.
  However the ending sucks, it get's repetitive quick, and too many glitches. Just read the FAQ about 
 the game, you'll see. If the game was a little more solid with less errors, and had a better ending, 
 the game could be a good 9.0.
  
  But there seems to be just too much loading for me to give this game a higher score. I understand 
 loading goes with the territory when it come with these types of games. However it gets a bit much 
 I think.
  
  The side quest are good and all but, the key missions are neglected. It's more difficult to figure 
 out the side quest then it is to complete the storyboard mission.
  
  Considering all the cool interactive things you can do in this game, own shops, get married, have 
 kids, buy and rent out homes, actually being able to interact with all the objects in the game, 
 to have to ability to change appearances based on the food you eat and the decisions you make. 
 All the little thing's Fable has to offer, just to have the game summed up in 14 quick missions!!???!! 
 14 missions is being generous as well considering you walk thew many of them just cuz there inter-thread. 
 I was under the impression the game would offer me more of a challange and I'm no video game expert.
 
  
  It really needs to give you the ability to increase the difficulty and it need's more substance, 
 more mission's ( Quests ) whatever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 598gh
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 14, 2009 11:57 am PT
Review:  this is a great game yknow this is one of the best games iv played it in my life but it needs a 
 better graphics but when you play the and not stop from play it its get a little bit boring but 
 the game is so great and i loved it so much thanks lionhead for this game hhhhhb hhhhhhhhhhhhhh 
 hhhhhhhhhh hhhhhh hhhhhhh hhhh hhhhh hhhhhhh hhhhhhhhh hhhhhhhhhh hhhhhhhhhhhh hhhhhhhhhhhh hhhhhhh 
 hhhhhhhhhhhh hhhhhhhhhhh hhhhhhhhhhhh hhhhhhhhhhh hhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhh jhhhhhhhhhhh hhhhhhhhhhhhh 
 hhhhhhhhhhhhhh hhhhhhhhhhhhh hhhhhhhhhhhhh hhhhhhhhh hhhhhhhhhhh hhhhhhhhhh hhhhhhhhhhhh hhhhhhhhhhhhh 
 hhhhhhhhhhhhhhhh hhhhhhhhhhhhh hhhhhhhhhhhhhhhh hhhhhhhhhhhhhhh hhhhhhhhhhhhhhhh hhhhhhhhhh hhhhhhhhhhhhh 
 hhhhhhhhhhhh hhhhhhhhhhhhhhh hhhhhhhhhhh hhhhhhhhhhhh hhhhhhhhhh hhhhhhhhhhhh hhhhhhh hhhhh hh 
 hhhhhhh hhhhh hhhhhh hh hhhhhhhhh hhhhhhhhhh hhhhhhhhhhh h 
::::::

::::::
UserName: revansode
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 14, 2009 10:29 am PT
Review:  this game showed thousanda of people that not all 2nd hits of the a game are all bad now that knotwhole 
 island is out this game gose back in time to one of the origanle places frum fable wich i owen 
 both fable and fable the lost chapters this game has a un macthable combat xp and it has an aswoum 
 cose and afect systemi hope I enlighten meny more to play this game so until next time this is 
 revansode sighing out so look forword to more review by me
  . . . . . . . . . . .. . .. . . ..  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SandboxAddict
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 13, 2009 3:17 am PT
Review:  I expected a lot from this game in terms of graphics, freedom and game play.
  
  On the graphics front this game is a beauty, on the rest quite a letdown. 
  
  Molyneux is a 
 big talker, but didn't deliver. There is no sense of real freedom in this game, what with all the 
 long loading screens between areas, and the set path in the worlds (not being able to really walk 
 whereever you want to) . 
  
  I couldn't care less about my dog also. To me he felt like a totally useless addition (instead 
 of the lively companion that was promised) except for the treasure hunting. But then the 'opening 
 a treasure chest' animation got on my nerves.
  
  I was everything but immersed in the story: instead i started to buy houses like mad, put away 
 the game for weeks, and then started buying more houses, because the money collected from rent 
 kept coming, even with the game off.
  
  I have no idea why i kept playing, and have never felt such a strange ambiguous feeling from a 
 game before. Just to buy more houses, earning a heap more money and finishing the story. 
  
  It was like craving for fast food, eating too much, and feeling stuffed and dissatisfied afterwards. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deshazerg
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 13, 2009 2:33 pm PT
Review:  Let me start by saying, I really like this game. If it wasn't for its undeniable charm and immersive 
 game play, I wouldn't wouldn't be saying that. That said, there are two major issues for me that 
 keep it from getting that 10/10 for me. First, the game has several very noticeable bugs that shake 
 you out of your immersion into the game and bring you back to reality. The clipping issues mentioned 
 by the GS reviewer are no joke. Specifically, for me, I opened the back door in a house and got 
 stuck inside the door. I had to restart from my last check point to be able to play again. The 
 second technical issue, is that sometimes the frame rate gets really slow, like a slide show. Sometimes 
 characters overhead icons appear on screen, but the character him/herself is invisible. Or lastly 
 the game occasionally locks up the entire system requiring a reboot. (in fairness only happened 
 once, but still!) These technical issues are big hassle as they can interupt the game play experience 
 over all and can cause you to lose progress in the game. 
  My other issue with the game is that while it is possible to spend 50+ hours in the game, you will 
 only do that if you want to spend time doing things that have little to nothing to do with the 
 actual plot. The main story only takes 10 to 15 hours. It's great to be able to pursue romantic 
 relationships and have children as well as buy every available property, (I myself have spend hours 
 in this pursuit) but it would be nice if more of your side missions had to do with what the main 
 plot entails. In the game, the main characters do not seem to be aware that there is an evil presence 
 in the world at all. In fact, it doesn't seem to have any effect on them whatsoever, which is disappointing. 
 
  I do not write this to deter any of you from playing the game, because it is really good, it just 
 isn't great. If you have a real chip on your shoulder for technically buggy games, you want to 
 avoid this one, but if you can look past some of it's technical/plot short comings, you will find 
 a very entertaining adventure. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: isaac2580
Rating: 4
Date: Jan 12, 2009 12:55 pm PT
Review:  this game is even more stupid than fable 1
  i was very exited when , a long time ago , anounced fable,
  it was supposed to be the bes RPG 
 for the x box.
  when i finally played the actual game , i was very disappointed.
  there is no story, just a bunch of corny , unfunny ,gimmicks,
  the game is toooooo easy, tooooo 
 linear and toooooo short
  and tooooo STUPID.
  
  so then lions gate studio put on the shelves a new "improved
  version of fable, which was 
 the same stupid demo... ejem .... sorry , game, but with a little more game.
  
  fable 2 was supposed to be a real game, with a huge open world to explore, a deep story, great 
 graphics .................. but it turned out to be exactly the same thing as fable, just adapted 
 for the 360.
  the combat is to simple , and the games is allways focusing on the stupid gimmicks that try to 
 be funny ,.
  they are not.
  farting in a videogame is not funny.
  having horns and red eyes is not scarry.
  i mean , the developers spend most of their time developing 
 this stupid gimmics and they did not took care of the things that make a game great:
  1.-story.
  2.-playability.
  3.-atmosphere (wich includes graphics, effects, sound, music etc.)
 
  
  this game is a waste of time and money . good thing i only rented the dam thing .
  save money and time and stay away from this one.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kicken
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 11, 2009 2:03 pm PT
Review:  Fable 2 embarks you on a journey as a young boy/girl as you try to make ends meat. from there you 
 grow into a hero that allows you to travel from towns doing good (or bad) deeds.. basically telling 
 the story as you play it.
  The story was acceptable for a sequel, I wont give any details away to why - but I personally preferred 
 the original's more.
  **although I will say that the ending was a letdown - no final boss battle
  
  Combat is the 
 same old generic button masher, Y is your ranged attack, X is your melee, and B is your magic. 
 straight forward and similar to the originals.
  Graphics are top notch, glossy pastures, sun rays hitting the nice green trees in the mornings 
 - simply amazing
  Also there's a lot of replayability since you can play as good/evil and as a boy/girl.... need 
 to beat the game 3 times for those last achievements.
  ***should be mentioned the game is fairly short.
  
  so should you buy this game? I think so, 
 youll have enough here to keep to busy for awhile, and its one of those 360-only games which is 
 nice. if you won't buy it... you need to AT LEAST rent this game... with enough playtime you could 
 tackle it in a weeks time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Terracata
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 16, 2009 2:01 pm PT
Review:  Fable2 (Xbox360) Review
  
  Fable2, the sequel to the smash hit RPG Fable/Fable TLC (The Lost Chapters) . This game takes us 
 back to the now pre-modern realm of Albion. The days of heroes and Will users is long past but 
 (Yeah Don't panic you can still use all that jazz) the descendent of a noble blood line has been 
 charged with an equally noble cause; to rally the heroes of the three schools of heroism and defeat 
 the baddy Guess who that is? Yes! It's you. You are the descendant of your previous character 
 (That bloke who killed Jack of BladesAnd maybe his sister if you wanted the shiny sword) So, from 
 a lowly street urchin you shall rise to the occasion hero. Balverines, scary ghosts, irritating 
 giants and a really big arena await you. So come, indulge!
  
  Changes from the previous games
  
  It's a girl!... What? Yep, you can now be a girl hero. A 
 heroine I suppose (better be careful with that one) Lionhead studios have finally realised that 
 girls MIGHT want to play, ok who are we kidding? Guys want to be Electra copy-cats and kick some 
 face in the mean-time. (I have tried this by the way and what I got was an incredibly butch woman 
 I nick named "Gurt") Being a girl holds lots of interesting prospects, such as make-up, snazzy 
 hair cuts and a wide selection of women's wear. Although fear not "curious" people, both men and 
 women can partake in these luxury objects of desire. 
  BANG! Guns, yes yes yes, there are indeed guns in Fable2 I love them. Much more fun than cross 
 bows; cool noise, cool looks. We're not talking Walther PPKs or M4A1 SopMods here but we do have: 
 
  Blunderbusses  Shotguns
  Pistols - Pistols
  Rifles  Rifles but think: Sharpe
  A nice addition to the game in my opinion.
  Co-op! Finalllllyyyyy they've added co-op. I was 
 slightly disappointed with the capabilities of it but tis better than nothing I suppose. The main 
 downfall of it is that your friend, if in your world, cannot use his or her own hero. They have 
 to choose from a range of pre-made custom chars. This removes the uniqueness of the hero. While 
 they retain all there skills. If you're like me, you don't really play Fable for the "Skillup frenzy 
 OMG MUST LVL!!!11" you play because your heroine is starting to look a lot like a pirate which 
 Is cool better start using a flintlock pistol and buy a triangular hat Or was that just me? 
 
  
  All in all. I am LOVING this instalment of the Albion story. Superb Graphics tied in with an interesting 
 story line make this a brilliant RPG. Aside from lacking slightly in the open-world free roam that 
 was promised. 
  
  A solid 8.5/10 from me. Happy Role Playing Ingame ofc 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: RhysGamma
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 11, 2009 11:41 am PT
Review:  Fable II had a lot of hype surrounding it. In most areas it delivers, but in some it doesn't. It 
 is in those areas that keeps this game from being Game of the Year material. It is a fun and immersive 
 game that is hard to put down. Be warned, it is only as long as you want it to be.
  
  The story is really quite average. Guy seeks revenge on guy who is trying to take over the world. 
 *yawn* This is one of those areas that holds it back. The story progression was well paced but 
 really predictable, right up to the end. Don't be expecting a twist of any kind, because there 
 isn't one. However, the choices you make as a child have an impact on the state of the game. If 
 you choose to be good then your home town will be a prosperous town, and the opposite if you choose 
 to be bad. Because of all of these choices, replaying the game becomes almost necessary. The replay 
 value of this game is very high because of all the different options the game presents you with.
 
  
  One of the saving graces of this bland story are the characters. You'll want to progress in the 
 game for many reasons but one of those reasons is just to see what characters the game is going 
 to throw at you next. Though the characters are lacking depth and back story, the voice acting 
 is well done. Most of the things that people have to say are funny and full of wit. This makes 
 up for your character being completely silent. However, the best character of all is an unlikely 
 one: your dog. Your dog is easily the best part of the game and is a great companion. It really 
 ties you to the game. Unlike most sidekicks in games who just get in the way, your dog is actually 
 useful. He finds treasures that any of us would have ran right past. Also, he alerts you of many 
 things, from enemy presence to dig spot where you can dig up all sorts of cool things.
  
  The graphics are good, but not great. They simply didn't "wow" me. Also, the texture popping got 
 quite annoying and frequent. I'm sure that, along with the horrid loading times (oh, the horrid 
 loading times!) , can be fixing simply by installing the game on your hard drive. 
  
  The controls are another area that holds this game back. Movement is very, very clunky and inconsistent. 
 Sometimes you can turn on a dime, other times you can't. The transition from land to water is poorly 
 executed and clunky. With these controls, this game can and sometimes does turn into a hack-n-slash. 
 To some that might be fun, but to me it wasn't. Later in the game the combat starts to lose its 
 shine and its diversity. That coupled with the fact that changing spells, especially in the middle 
 of combat, can be very frustrating. Speaking of combat, there isn't a real penalty for dying or 
 as they put it, "knocked out." This can be a good and a bad thing. Some battles or quests you just 
 don't want to do five times in a row, especially on a higher difficulty. On the other hand, you 
 can just rush right in to any battle without fear because if you get "knocked out", you just get 
 right back up. 
  
  That's just them trying to appeal and hardcore gamers at the same time in exchange for making a 
 truly great game. Instead they released a good game. Pity 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zajorax
Rating: 5
Date: Jan 10, 2009 9:28 pm PT
Review:  There were many things said in videos and other places about what was to be included in fable 2 
 that wasn't included, I did not feel any "emotional bond" to my dog instead I found it profoundly 
 annoying and that it was always getting in my way. Combat was disappointing with little variation 
 in enemies and little need of tactics to win a fight. Bugs with the ability to skip quest dialogue 
 left me thinking I had skipped the conversation and had accepted the quest but instead I had failed 
 to accept the quest and had thus frozen it, this was very frustrating especially when it was the 
 main quest because I would have to load a save sometimes 30 to 60 minutes old. Also glitch with 
 trying to move family would cause my family to be frozen to the spot and wouldn't talk to me. All 
 in all I was utterly disapointed with fable 2 and had looked foward to it for a long time, I would 
 have been able to look over these problems if the storyline had been immersive and long but it 
 was terrible so I am giving fable 2 a 5. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lordmeanflea
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 10, 2009 9:21 pm PT
Review:  When I stared playing it I thought it was sink and, after 48 hr. later I was still hook. That graphics 
 and lighting where blinding. The AI was well programmed with few fault but who am I complaining 
 I still couldn't move on from Hello World. The combat was vary unique but easy to learn tough I 
 rarely use the blocking during combat. The Story was amazing and every choice I've made did make 
 me feel "did I make right decision." All in all it was and still is fun game to play, and some 
 time just let loose your awesome power on the town 
 
  
 
  
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: SubtleMurderArt
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 9, 2009 10:28 pm PT
Review:  Playing through Fable 2 feels remotely similar to playing to Fable 1, but there have been many 
 good improvements to the game. The graphics are crisp and there are no graphical errors or fps 
 problems during the game. The storyline is better than the first, but still somewhat lacks a certain 
 element to it. Playing the game through, just doing the main quests can lead to around 5-8 hours 
 of gameplay, but the side-quests and numerous other activities you can engage in are what truly 
 make this game a long-lasting experience. The actual fighting concept is more smooth than the first 
 Fable, but still lacks difficulty. Jamming on the X button can take down the majority of all enemies, 
 excluding boss fights. Overall, Fable 2 is a great RPG, and definitely a must own game for any 
 fan of the original game or action RPG's. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nismo_skyline85
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 9, 2009 8:30 pm PT
Review:  Right of the top, Fable 2 is too short. I beat the main story in well under 10 hours, but you can 
 continue playing after you beat the main story (unlike Fallout3 (which is a better game) ) . Under 
 10 hours... For the main story... IN AN RPG???? I don't think so... Well anyways, what you get 
 while you got it is pretty fun though. I played the first Fable on XBOX and I thought it was ok. 
 I thought maybe Fable 2 would be better, it really isn't but its still ok to play.
  
  The visuals in this game were a major letdown. The artistry is decent. Characters and environments 
 are designed well. Technically the game looks like a piece of rabbit poo. I mean come on Lionhead, 
 Ya'll could have done so much better on the visuals. Spell effects are very cheap looking. Interaction 
 with the environment doesn't exist. There's supposed to be blood in the game, I haven't seen any. 
 I would really like to see a polygon count in Fable vs. Fable 2 cause it really doesn't look much 
 better. There was significant slow down in some areas too. I encountered a problem when casting 
 shock spells: the higher I would charge the spell, the closer the draw distance would become to 
 a point where I couldn't see more than about 20 feet away from my character, disappointing.
  
  The audio was good however. I thought the voice acting was done particularly well. The voice 
 actors did a great job, everyone was cast appropriately. Sound effects were good, nothing really 
 stands out as good or bad. The music was really good and fits the game well.
  
  I felt the story was great, though too short. It's not generic like I thought it was going to be. 
 It is very touching. I found myself really liking the good guys and really hating the bad guys.
 
  
  Gameplay is simple yet fun. You have melee, ranged, and magic attacks. Basically its button mashing, 
 but you can link attacks together so combat can vary greatly from one encounter to the next. You 
 get experience orbs from downing enemies which you can use to further upgrade your strength, skill, 
 and will attacks.
  
  Conclusion: Fable 2 was ok. The game was hyped up so much and it did not meet my expectations. 
 Its really not any better than the first Fable (besides the game world being larger) . There was 
 so much potential and I thought Lionhead was going to deliver, they didn't. This was actually my 
 least favorite RPG I have played in a long time; but it is still worth a shot if you enjoyed the 
 first Fable or are looking for a touching story. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: anmvamp
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 12, 2009 1:12 pm PT
Review:  'Project Ego' was supposed to be the most revolutionary game ever. Then it hit stores as "Fable" 
 and became just another action/rpg with a nice little customization feature. People were mad about 
 the massive letdown, but got over it in time (and a public apology from Peter Molyneux, 'The Boss') . 
 With Fable 2 I finally hoped the original goal of Fable would be realized, this time in a darker, 
 grungy time period. 
  Too bad.
  Once again the features which are supposed to make this game unique turn out to be lackluster. 
 Example:
  Raising a Family. 
  It's exactly the same as Fable except now you can have kids.... that do absolutely nothing. They 
 start as a baby, then over time turn into a youngster... and then stop growing. I've yet to see 
 my daughter turn into a teen and its been months. There is no depth to the family aspect of the 
 game besides: stop in after each quest or two, fill your spouse with the man-meat (or vice-versa) , 
 and give a gift to your kid. Tada. That's it. I suppose its fun, but the game wouldn't really have 
 suffered if it was missing.
  Properties.
  Another feature which could have been great fun cut short due to its clunky execution. If there 
 was a set-up where all properties could be managed at once it would have greatly improved this 
 feature. Saving up to buy the great Castle Fairfax is quite rewarding, but having to run all over 
 the world to manage your estates is not.
  DOG.
  The dog. I don't know anyone who really has a strong tie to that beast. Sure, its nice to know 
 where buried treasure is... and sometime he'll point out a chest I missed, but overall he doesn't 
 do much, and ignoring him doesn't hinder your gaming experience at all. He is cute (kind of) and 
 come in handy once in a while, but as for creating a bond and making you love this little pooch... 
 I don't know. The color of his fur changes depending on your alignment which is neat, however he 
 doesn't grow horns and spit fire... which is honestly what we all wanted.
  Fable 2 is a solid action/rpg. There is no doubting that. The story is linear and plays out exactly 
 like the first (tutorial as a kid, earn fame as a young adult, fight in tournament, go to jail, 
 get out of jail while saving someone important, save world) but manages to keep the player coming 
 back for more. The combat, no matter how much you tell yourself it isn't, is very generic. But 
 at least them ladies and gentlemen at Lionhead know how to keep it fun and entertaining with the 
 added environmental attacks which very fun to watch (i. e. pushing a bandit off a cliff) and the 
 new weapon gaurd/execute combo is pretty cool as well. It may surprise some original Fable players 
 to learn that your character cannot dodge, block, or free aim with ranged weapons until they have 
 increased their feats of Strength and Skill, but this new concept adds a bit more realism to this 
 wack-job world known as Albion.
  The graphics are nice and have that signature Fable look, though the sunlight can and will get 
 annoying from time to time. I never did like the way the hero walks/runs, but i imagine that is 
 something Lionhead is very proud of since they still have yet to change it... and in fact made 
 it even more strange looking. It often looks like my character is trying to keep from crapping 
 his pants while running up a gentle incline. 
  Fable 2 is a fun game. Its not extremely deep, and the customization only goes so far, but it is 
 definitely worth picking up if you're looking for a fun time.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: boj0001
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 8, 2009 4:36 am PT
Review:  When I first layed my eyes on the first few minutes of this game, I knew I was going to be sucked 
 into a massive world full of everything. But then I realised after about 2 hours, Id already killed 
 Lucien and that I've done most of the side missions. What to do, what to do, then I murdered everyone 
 in Albion, and I put the controller down ready to play another game. I think I had more fun playing 
 Gordon Ramsay in Saints Row 2, then playing as 'Captain Jack' Sparrow in Fable 2. Man, the guy 
 said nothing throughout this game. How the duck is he supposed to communicate to other characters. 
 Look, now to the positives. In my short experience, I enjoyed the graphics, but I did get sick 
 of traversing through caves. Acting and sound was good. And the missions were alright, even though 
 the story didn't pose any challenge. I actually wnated to die, not lose experience. After playing 
 this, I was forced to go back to the PS1 and play Final Fantasy 7. The game suprises me more every 
 time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: little_chino
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 7, 2009 6:07 pm PT
Review:  This game is just plain fun. Don't expect to get into a deep and emotional or crazy story line, 
 just expect to kill a lot of bad guys. The combat is easy and flows smoothly, and the magic works 
 perfectly. Easily the best part of the game is hearing what characters have to say thanks to the 
 great voice acting and witty dialogue. While the story is nothing to brag about, the game itself 
 makes up for it. The only two complaints i can easily make are that the main story line is far 
 too short and the coop play feels like it was rushed and not well built. Even online the players 
 are forced to stay on the same screen a la Lord of the Rings: The Return of the King. The real 
 reason i wrote this review is just to say that when you are trapped in wraithmarsh, you meet a 
 guy named Old Greg. Coincidence? Hell no. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yakman2
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 7, 2009 11:43 am PT
Review:  I got this game for Christmas, and I expected a more violent, dirty, and exciting version of Oblivion. 
 I was disappointed. 
  
  I find that the graphics in the game are okay, but not up to speed with other games. Also, the 
 characters are kind of child-like, with huge, rescue-hero sixed feet and all animated and stuff. 
 I wanted at least okay graphics and characters. 
  
  I thought that you'd be able to do more GTA type stuff, like shooting and sex. But the guns are 
 all old fashioned, like crossbows and muskets. I have yet to do it in the game yet, because I need 
 a cetain gesture or something to get someone into bed. Even if I could, I don't know that I would, 
 because all of the girls look like f***ing sh*t. I mean, COME ON, the prostitutes are all pig-like!
 
  
  I do not care if this game has guns and sex, Oblivion still kicks its a$$ to the moon and beyond. 
 The only reason I give it an 8 is because I like the combat. Otherwise, I would give it a 5 or 
 around there. I am disappointed.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: somadude
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 7, 2009 11:10 am PT
Review:  Gameplay 9/10
  The gameplay in fable 2 is very refined and fast paced. There are 3 different ways to build your 
 hero (or villian) Strenght, Skill and Will. Each have there own feel and look. If you go Strength then 
 you will be a melee powerhouse with loads of health. Skill is tuned to players (like myself) who 
 find joy in sniping any potential enemys. And will is of coarse for the player who loves seeing 
 big shiny spells. The one thing that holds the gameplay back from perection is probably the sometimes 
 inconsistent framerate, but other then that this game is really fantastic in the gameplay section.
 
  
  Graphics 9/10
  Colorful and radiant these graphics show off the great art style and for the most part a great 
 technical side as well. Though the framerate as stated before isn't as great and there are some 
 cases of erratic ragdoll, which is funny but not impressive. The world is massive with a lot of 
 things to do and earning gold is easy and fun.
  
  Sound 9/10
  Fantastic soundtrack and average voicework and sound effects though there are some genuinely funny 
 moments.
  
  Value 10/10
  You could spend hours simply exploreing the world and the fact that there are also plenty of sidequests 
 and a decent though predictable storyline. In the end fable 2 is just such a turnaround from the 
 last fable it puts the new and old ideas to use and comes out looking great.
  
  The good
  Massive world, deep character building, no more gold grinds, side quests are all over the place, beutiful 
 art style.
  
  The bad
  Some bugs and inconsistent framerate, having to install the game on the HDD just so it won't freeze 
 is a downer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LordDanimus
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 7, 2009 10:20 am PT
Review:  Fable II is an amazing game which will get you highly addicted. Almost everything in this game 
 is good and an improvement from the first Fable such as the owning of property, combat and generally 
 the amount of things you can do to distract you from playing the main story (and of course having 
 a dog) . However the story doesn't seem to be as gripping as the first one and lacks the happy warm 
 feeling. 
  But apart from that a great game. The graphics look good, if you really want to you can spend a 
 fair bit of time doing jobs to earn some moneys and then buy lots of properties rent them, then 
 if you leave the game you still make gold every 5 mins so everyones happy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mr_Impossible
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 7, 2009 7:38 am PT
Review:  Fable 2 is set in the Victorian times in fantasy world called Albion. You get to choose weever 
 to be a male or female and start off as a youngster growing up to become either good or evil. At 
 the beginning of the game it starts off as place full of corruption and prostitutes and Lucien 
 is the man your after who is planning to destroy anything that gets in his way. The story is alright 
 but I've seen better and also there's a lot to explore. The best thing in Fable 2 is your dog who 
 you actually make a special bond with. He also helps you find treasure. Graphics in Fable 2 are 
 nice, rich and colourful despite a few glitches. The combat system in Fable 2 are good but at times 
 are bit weak for an example when your are fighting opponents with a sword or using magic it never 
 seems to take a lot of damage, but when your using a pistol or a rifle it takes a hell of lot damage. You 
 also can interact with your town folks it's kind of like the Sims and you can get married then 
 have kids Or you can just use a condom instead to protect you from having children or aids. Your 
 character can buy a house or shop. Fable 2 is full of life and a great role playing adventure.
 
  
  Graphics - Fable 2 is nice, rich and colourful despite a few glitches.
  
  Gameplay - It's really addictive and fun to play.
  
  How long the game lasts? - It will last 
 you up to at least 72 hours of gameplay
  same as Oblivion.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: nm15
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 7, 2009 6:14 am PT
Review:  I'm about 15hrs in to the game and for me, almost every annoyance with the first game has been 
 fixed with this game. I like the fighting system better, although it still is a bit tricky to use 
 Will Powers over Melee. I really like the addition of guns, which makes ranged combat much easier. 
 I really miss the loss of Assassin Rush, but I guess some things have to go to make way for new 
 Will Powers. The expression system is better, but still clunky. There is simply too much to do 
 for the controllers. A revolution will need to happen in console controllers for all the expressions 
 to become more natural.
  
  Jobs are a great way to get money, but incredibly boring just tapping a button and trying to build 
 multipliers. But once you get enough money built up where you can start making the big shop purchases 
 or rental properties, you shouldn't really have to work anymore. I'm not quite that far, but I 
 have purchased at least 4 small shops, 3 houses (1 for rent, 2 for living) and 1 bar. I'm getting 
 about 650 gold every 5 min from that.
  
  The dog is fantastic!!! No more aimless wandering, hoping you stumble upon a dig spot or worrying 
 about missing a treasure chest right in front of your nose that's hidden with vines. But that doesn't 
 mean you don't have to search, you still need to get close to the spots. The dog is also great 
 for warning you when someone is lurking, ready to ambush you.
  
  I'm also glad the fishing is gone. That was tedious and frustrating and the dive spots are a great 
 replacement.
  
  Overall, I really like this game and find it highly addictive. I find myself playing it way longer 
 than I should be playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JWud
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 6, 2009 11:25 pm PT
Review:  Fable II is a good game with the potential to be a great one, if only Lion Head had spent any time 
 at all checking it for bugs. I've never played a game with so many glitches. Most are small and 
 fix quickly, but you literally almost can't get through the story mode without experiencing some 
 form of bug in some part of the game, most likely in the spouse department. For instance, if you 
 give your spouse the wrong gift at the wrong time (specifically any ring right before you do the 
 tattered spire quest) , there's a good chance they'll just vanish into thin air without a trace, 
 and any children you had with that spouse will just freeze in place and not move or talk, with 
 no current way to fix it. Or if not something that bad then possibly you might encounter a glitch 
 where if you marry "Alex" a quest wife, then she won't give you any gifts like other wives do, 
 or maybe you'll run into the glitch where you can't fast travel to your spouse (no idea why) . Aside 
 from glitches, money making is far too easy in the game, to the point of making money almost pointless, 
 since you can just get some properties and set your clock forward for big bucks, or if you want 
 to play it fair its super easy to make enormous profits buying equipment cheap and selling it high 
 (right down the street from where you bought it, I may add) . The rest of the game is great, but 
 it still seems that Oblivion is much better and cheaper now that it has dropped in price. The game 
 has the potential to be amazing, but it seems like it was rushed through production and some things 
 slipped through the cracks, hopefully LH will release some updates to fix the glitches, and bring 
 the game up to where it should be. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: afq2846
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 6, 2009 4:19 pm PT
Review:  In starting this review I am assuming the reader has already played the original game. If you hav 
 enot then go out and get the original (it should be very cheap now) and play it. In this game you 
 basically play a boy or a girl and you play through his or her life. His sister is killed by an 
 evil man and you go throughout your life trying to get revenge or to find out what happened. You 
 start young then get older then you are even more older. I have to admit that the graphics in this 
 game are great. The sound is good but graphically is where this game shines. Another change from 
 the original is that you have a dog. The dog follows you everywhere and helps you dig up treasures 
 and fights (well not really) . You talk to town folks and have various missions and such to build 
 up your character. Also you get to buy houses and businesses to help build up your gold. The missions 
 are fun at first but after awhile they can become tedious. That with every time you walk around 
 you get attacked start to make the game a little boring. All of the features of the original are 
 in this game with much better graphics and such. Its a big time RPG that will take awhile to solve 
 the game. The game also allows you to be evil or good. In doing various missions and tasks you 
 have two ways to do them. You could to them the good way or the bad way and it helps to form your 
 character. Not sure how much fun it would be to evil because I chose the good way. This is a solid 
 game that is worth picking up. If not for the fact that the xbox 360 really does not have too many 
 quality RPGs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BoxOfPocky
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 6, 2009 1:58 pm PT
Review:  I've played the original Fable, multiple times, while anxiously waiting for the sequel... Well... 
 here it is. However... is it truly that much better than the original? I'll just keep it simple 
 with a good and bad list.
  
  Good:
  -Game Play: There was tremendous improvement in the combat. I hated the spell casting system in 
 the original. However, Fable II made the combat more fluent and fun. You get one button for magic, 
 one for range, and one for melee which let you pull off some really flashy combos and keep the 
 action fun for hours of play.
  -Graphic: Of course, graphic has greatly improved. The environment in the game is great to look 
 at and wander through.
  -Environment: Well speaking of graphics... we have to mention the environment. The areas in which 
 you get to explore is expanded greatly. It's easily doubled the size of the map in the original 
 game.
  -Side Quests: There's a lot of things to do in the game aside from progress through the main story. 
 You can take jobs like woodcutting, bartender, blacksmith, assassination jobs, bounty hunting, 
 and much more. 
  -Gender: You can choose to either be male or female. Being either doesn't really change the progress 
 of the story really. However, it just improve the replay value.
  -Sounds: What to be mentioned here is the voice acting. Though not flawless, they are extremely 
 well-done. Some of the conversations are quite humorous. 
  -Properties: In the original game you get to purchase houses. However, in this one, you can purchase 
 almost every single property in the towns. Furthermore, you can improve your houses by purchasing 
 furniture to decorate your houses. It doesn't change the progression of the game, but it's sure 
 to keep you hook to that screen for hours on end.
  
  Bad:
  -Story: Alright... the story is good... however, I felt that it resembles the original too closely. 
 As a matter of fact, the progression is somewhat the same also. I know I'm picky, but it's just 
 how it really seem.
  -Equipments: Like in the old game, there's really not that much of a selection in term of equipments. 
 
  -Difficulty: To me, I felt the difficulty of the game was way too easy.
  It might be because I made my person too powerful. However, from beginning to end, I didn't die 
 once. Additionally, the boss battle at the end was a real letdown. It wasn't even much of a battle. 
 There's no real sense of victory. At least Jack of Blades, in the original, put up a decent fight 
 at the end.
  -Townspeople: Yeah... the gaphic are nice... However, there wasn't really much variety in terms 
 of the townspeople. 
  -Money: Yeah... money is really easy. It's not so at first when you start. However, after a few 
 properties and jobs, money don't become an issue. Furthermore, your properties accumulates money 
 even when you don't play the game. 
  
  Fable II is not flawlessly game. Much improvements can be done to it to make it way better than 
 it currently is. However, despite those flaws, the game is still highly addicting and with great 
 replay values. It's assured to keep you glued to your TV for hours on end. I recommend it for any 
 adventure-seeking, role-playing gamers. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: MACEAC08
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 6, 2009 10:53 am PT
Review:  When I saw the pre-release info about the 2 player co-op on this game I was stoked-I thought my 
 wife and I would be able to enjoy the game much as we had previously enjoyed such titles as the 
 Baldur's Gate and Champions of Norrath series; sadly, that was not to be.
  
  In single player, the game is good-looks nice, some fun features (I liked the jobs, especially 
 blacksmithing) -but it seems to rush along too fast for the main quest story. Some of the gameplay 
 features, such as real-estate management, seem like too much of a chore given what the main idea 
 of the game is.
  
  My impression overall was that Lionhead promised a lot for this game (and sold a lot of pre-release 
 sales on those promises) and then delivered a sub-par product that looks like it was rushed to 
 release before everything was finished to the level they had promised. The game is beautifully 
 rendered, but lacks in meaningful substance... and the lacking co-op play is a major bummer-what 
 they promised would have been an awesome step forward for the genre; instead, it wasn't even as 
 good as several games which preceded it by a couple of years.
  
  This is one game that I bought new (and I usually wait for used or greatest hits versions) and 
 really wish I hadn't! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kurezan
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 5, 2009 4:42 pm PT
Review:  Fable 2 was not what I expected it to be.
  
  I thought it was going to have a loose story, but with a good amount of options for customization.
 
  
  Well, I was right about the customization.
  
  The story is easy to get into in my opinion, it first caught me as interesting when...
  
  *SPOILER*
 
  
  The main characters sibling gets killed by Lucien after they wish on a box...
  
  *SPOILER*
  
  The music boxes music seems to go right through me whenever I hear it, all mysterious 
 throughout the game.
  
  The story gets good as your character ages... Bent on revenge..
  
  Whether he become a true hero or evil on the way is up to you, however you should know that 
 your appearance does change through what you do.
  
  The clothing and hair can be customized as well, you can dye them with dyes you get through the 
 a store or through quests. 
  
  Although, I was a bit dissapointed that the main story wasn't longer, I do recommend this game 
 to anyone who is looking for a solid and fun 360 game, with tons of replay value.
  
  (I also hear the online play is fun, so if you have xbox Live then you should seriously look into 
 buying this game.)
  
  Graphics: Awesome
  
  Sound: Great
  
  Story: Awesome
  
  Rating: 9.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ashes2ashes_uk
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 5, 2009 5:39 am PT
Review:  As an avid player of the original Fable, I was actively looking forward to the sequel. Upon playing 
 it, I can say that whilst it is a great game, it does have some faults.
  
  First, the positives: 
  *The new "single button" combat system works well. 
  *The new graphics 
 are gorgeous
  *The world is just as immersive as last time, if not more so in some ways.
  *The story is well told, and engaging.
  *The game world feels much larger than it did previously
 
  *Your faithful companion, the dog, is pretty cool
  
  Whilst the game is incredible, it is marred by some design and quality control issues:
  *The 
 world map - this is atrocious, and pretty much unusable
  *The quest "glowing path" isn't always that helpful
  *Multiplayer: Conceptually, this is quite 
 nice, and I can understand the way it was implemented for one system, however, it is absolutely 
 awful over Xbox Live, as it uses the same implementation as on a single console. The upshot is 
 that it is nigh on impossible to control your character, as you can't rotate the background
  *Bugs: Oh my, but this game is full of glitches. You would think that a game that took so long 
 to develop wouldn't be as plagued by bugs as this, but I've experienced anything from random freezes, 
 to sprite corruption to weird behaviour of NPCs... I have also heard of the save game corrupting.
 
  Single player quest is still short
  
  Overall, this game is well worth playing, however, it would have been nice for the bugs to have 
 been ironed out pre release, or at least for a bug fix to have been issued via Xbox live 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vengefulwill
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 5, 2009 3:36 am PT
Review:  Albion is a world that's extremely difficult to pull away from once you get tangled up in its charmingly 
 irresistible net. In Fable II's magical land, you'll come across crass gargoyles mocking your foul-smelling 
 breath, nasty trolls erupting from the middle of luscious green pastures, and flirtatious women 
 pleading with the local hero to put a ring on their naked fingers. This is a place that seems to 
 exist whether you're actually playing or not, which makes it all the more compelling when you become 
 one of its virtual citizens. The simple combat and predictable story make the early moments feel 
 slight -- as if the whole adventure will lack the depth needed to truly suck you into its spell. 
 But once your initial doubt fades away, you're left with a meticulously crafted world that demands 
 exploration, makes you laugh out loud, and urges you to experience all the incredible details waiting 
 to be discovered. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Paintballpimp13
Rating: 5
Date: Jan 4, 2009 9:13 pm PT
Review:  Ok i will first start off by saying that I liked the first fable. I didn't LOVE it because so much 
 was promised and not delivered. Same goes for this game. I am a video Game design major at The 
 Art Institute in college so if ur gonna believe anyone believe me. Anyways lets get right down 
 to it.
  The so called "Best AI ever" dog companion is such a joke. All the dog does is track stuff down, 
 follow you, and can fight. WHAT! Peter my boy what are you thinking making a statement like that 
 and releasing a dog with such POOR AI. I honestly wanted to kill the dog and be done with it. It 
 should have been a CHOICE to have and not something that you have to have. So that was an epic 
 fail. The difficulty is quite funny actually. You see the thing that makes a fun game is challenge. 
 I WANT to be punished for dying! I want to have some consequence for not performing something correcting. 
 NO! not in this game. All you do is go slow motion and fall down. You loose only the orbs you haven't 
 picked up yet. Big whup! Yet another fail on the core aspects of a video game. Combat was fun, 
 though it was not the best I have ever seen. I liked the slow motion shots but I would have liked 
 more of stuff like that. The spells however were horribly designed. The way you cast is cool in 
 theory but not in actual game play. There is no need for a ladder cast system when there aren't 
 even that many spells. Don't have the text space to go on about it. Story, ok, but honestly not 
 as good as the first. Actually I didn't even finish the game because it was so bad. Lots of other 
 flaws within the game but whatever. Multiplayer IS A JOKE! Peter states that you can go in and 
 kill a friends family . Thats kinda hard to do WHEN U HAVE TO STAY ON THE SAME SCREEN AS THEM!!!! 
 At least make it the same zone, or else being able to do whatever u want is useless. You also can't 
 port over your character from your game. You have to play a pre made guy. So stupid. Anyways rent 
 this if anything, it may keep your attention for a bit but honestly its not good.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fluidity
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 4, 2009 8:05 pm PT
Review:  Fable II filled a void that I hadn't realized existed since finishing the Elder Scrolls: Oblivion. 
 While compelled to play almost nonstop since receiving it as a Christmas present, I found that 
 the number of side quests were really lacking.
  
  Perhaps its unfair to compare the two games, but for me, Oblivion is the standard-bearer for what 
 makes a good RPG. Fable II does a good job of keeping the player engaged, and the game certainly 
 doesn't end just because the main quest has been completed, but unless the player feels compelled 
 to get every achievement in the game, the rewards leave something to be desired.
  
  All in all, I thought Fable II was a good, but not great, game. I may play it through again just 
 to choose some different options this time (my character was primarily good) , or perhaps tarnish 
 my reputation by going on killing sprees since I'm now nigh-unstoppable. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: red192837465
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 4, 2009 6:55 pm PT
Review:  Fable 2 is a amazing adventure from start to finish. It is funny, intersting, and well written. 
 The two choices of evil and good really do effect your game. Will u save a town or massacre it. 
 That is just one example of many choices you will make. There is great music through out the game 
 and the voices are solid for what they are. The gameplay is great. You have to use strength, skill, 
 and will to defeat your enemies or weapons, guns, and magic. You also can get married, earn money, 
 rent houses and much more. You can play the way u want to.
  
  On the negative side, the game can gitch alot. Usually these will go away and don't effect your 
 game, so it doesn't matter. The campaign could have been a bit longer and a bit harder too. There 
 are lots and lots of side quests though.
  
  All in all, Fable 2 is a great game that in my opion, improves on Fable in many ways. It is worth 
 a buy if you like RPGs, especially with new content on the way. Check it out. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: darren_ankney
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 4, 2009 2:13 pm PT
Review:  This game has much replay value. I went through the campaign and side quests with both a good and 
 an evil character. Was great fun both times. So much is different depending on what side you play.
 
  
  Fighting is quite stylish, although it is a bit difficult to use really powerful magic due to the 
 charge time. There are plenty of satisfying bits with the ranged weapons. Melee is a bit tedious.
 
  
  It is a little too easy to get folks to fall in love with you. Interaction with NPCs is satisfying, 
 overall. It is nice feature that one can purchase just about any building. That adds to some possibilities 
 for making money. There are plenty of out of the way or outright hidden treasures, as well.
  
  There are some really cool side quests in here. Very well done. Not the usual go fetch me this 
 or go kill that. Although, to be fair, there is some of that in there. Most of the side quests 
 involve a fairly involved story.
  
  A great game with high replay value. I highly recommend it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JB1994
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 20, 2009 10:24 am PT
Review:  Positive
  +Being able to choose a good or bad storyline
  +Great voice acting
  
  Negative
  -Combat system is boring and seems rushed
  -Storyline is uninteresting
  -Main quest 
 is short
  -Game seems unfinished
  
  
  Ive just completed Fable 2 today and i was expecting a lot more, i was pretty disappointed actually 
 seen as though i expected so much from this game, but it turned out to be alright but not that 
 great.
  
  First problem is that the storyline is boring and not interesting at all. The guy you play as doesn't 
 say a word throughout the whole game making it boring to play as him. The other characters you 
 meet are not very good and uninteresting and after all isn't that what a RPG game is about? A great 
 story? Well if your look for a interesting storyline and great characters you not going to find 
 it in Fable 2. The gameplay is repetitive and it seems like they didn't spend much time on it at 
 all its just really boring and seems rushed. Y for range attack, X for melee attack and B for spells. 
 Just tap them over and over again and it should take you right through the game. You can get experience 
 and upgrade status but it doesn't make the game more involving or in depth at all. I actually struggled 
 to finish this game and felt like i was just grinding through it wondering when it will end. It 
 because Fable 2 is almost impossible to get sucked in and involved in the storyline simply because 
 its crap. Fable is also a very easy game in fact its virtually impossible to fail in this game, 
 you can die but you just get back up about 5 seconds after seeing your guy getting killed. There 
 is not death penalty at all making this one of the easiest games ive ever played.
  
  I had such high expectations for this game but it just turned out to be such a failure, this is 
 probably the most disappointing game of the year. Its not that Fable 2 is a bad game its just not 
 a very good one, its like the developers couldn't be bothered with the gameplay or story so just 
 rushed it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tci001
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 4, 2009 7:11 am PT
Review:  They had a lot of work to do to top the original, but Lionhead certainly saw that Fable 2 did just 
 that. A beautifully rendered and lush landscape, memorable and amusing characters, and more free-roaming 
 action than you can shake a stick at, Fable 2 really does deliver. Since completing Fable, I knew 
 that the second game would be as immersive and visually stunning as the first. It was the reason 
 I spent the rent money on a 360, and I certainly wasn't disappointed.
  
  To start, the game mechanics are fairly similar to those in the original, with the combat easily 
 mapped onto the controller, which makes the fights simple to execute, although you do tend to end 
 up feeling like you're simply mashing buttons in the longer fights further into the game. A lot 
 of the original games features are included in Fable 2, such as Demon Doors and Balverines, and 
 an arena-style quest known as 'The Crucible'.
  
  There are Will and ranged combat as in the original, and fans of Fable will be glad to see variations 
 of the older Will spells such as Inferno and Assassin's Rush (now renamed) , as well as new weapons, 
 ranged and melee. Guns have replaced your bow from the first game, although if you prefer you can 
 still buy longbows, crossbows and other ranged weapons from various traders you will meet on your 
 travels.
  
  Another nice touch is the continuation of the Augments from the previous game. As you progress 
 through Albion and build your physique and toughness, you will gain access to larger weapons with 
 augment slots. Once purchased from the various stomecutters, the augments can be assigned to grant 
 your character enhanced combat skills, some with positive effects on yourself and some with negative. 
 It's a risk that is often worth taking; where a specific augments will deal massive damage to certain 
 types of enemy, it may also reduce your health as you go.
  
  By far one of the biggest departures from the first game is the inclusion of your very own pooch, 
 who will follow you wherever you go and help you locate treasure chests, buried gold and items, 
 and perform tricks for your fellow Albionites. As you progress you will find books on dog-training 
 and your mutts locating skills will level up, making him more alert to buried items.
  
  The only real letdown of Fable 2 is that it's a little too short. Having said that, once the main 
 questt is over, there are a ton of side adventures and quests that you can only start once the 
 main story is over. You will have hours of fun blasting hobbes off ledges in caves and shooting 
 the obnoxious gargoyles that litter Albion for a special and hidden reward.
  
  There are the usual shops, taverns and bandit campos to explore, and should you find yourself short 
 of cash, you can always get a job, or gamble your riches in any of the fantasy worlds pub games.
 
  
  Overall, Fable 2 is a highly enjoyable and fun-filled action RPG, a must for X360 owners and sure 
 to be an instant classic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: N8_x
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 3, 2009 9:13 pm PT
Review:  Fable is one of the most addictive games of the year, hands down. I have hear tales of girlfriends 
 taking over the gaming from their boyfriends and playing more than the original owner of the game. 
 Its a great game that is simple enough to be played by anyone, and so in depth that any hardcore 
 gamer can satisfied with it. The combat is varied between ranged, melee, and spells, how you choose 
 to fight is your own. The game gives you quests and you decide how go about doing it. There is 
 no hold barred, and that makes it so great. You decide, good and bad. What do you want to be? The 
 world will change and is uniquely yours. it will change as you go about playing. No two worlds 
 are the same. Multiplayer is fun and addictive as the rest of the game. Share experience and money, 
 and the fun. The only flaw seems to be the camera in the multiplayer that you and your friend will 
 have to share and ultimately fight over. also distance limits that often cause one player to get 
 stuck sometimes, but the second player can always warp to the first player, which is a good save. 
 ultimately there is so much to say about his game. My recommendation is that you buy this game. 
 you are guaranteed to love it, regardless of your style of play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: orily
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 3, 2009 2:39 pm PT
Review:  Fable 2 extremely well done the graphics are the characters are extremely well designed and the 
 Alboin itself was extremely well detailed. The combat system was done extremely well and easy to 
 control. The dog was a really amazing part lionhead put into the game he really added somthing 
 to the game that I dont think a lot of othere games have. The dog also added a sense of love I 
 guess when he wasnt there it seemed like somthing was missing. He also was extremely well put together. 
 The only thing that was disappointing was how easy it is to kill enemies, it is super easy to make 
 money and that you can not die. Besides those three things the game was amazing lionhead did a 
 great job on the game and it is a must have for anyone who likes RPG well games. over all I think 
 the game gets a 9.5 out of 10. I look forward to playing other games made by Lionhead Studios. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ryan6236
Rating: 6
Date: Jan 3, 2009 10:54 am PT
Review:  I like RPGs and Strategy games. I played Shining Force and Ultima Online when I was a kid and had 
 a ball... maybe it's that I'm closing in on 30 and I just cant get into these games or something 
 but there isn't much here it seems like.
  Fable is a neat game but it's just so simple. I don't mean easy or anything (even though it is) 
 and maybe it's meant to be good light-hearted gaming for 10-20 minutes at a crack, but that's really 
 all it is. 
  The world's a little small, and as far as commerce and making money and all that you're kindof 
 limited to either smacking iron as a blacksmith, chopping wood, or serving brew... a couple other 
 jobs are around but generally speaking you play a bunch of timing games to make money.
  Armor and weapons are pretty straight forward and really I just picked what looked cool and haven't 
 had a problem since. I use the cleaver and just mash the attack button over and over. Really I 
 could spice it up and use magic or one of the guns, but there're only about 5 or 6 choices in any 
 of the categories and it's essentially all the same, the longer you hold the button when casting 
 a spell the more area the spell covers.
  All in all the game plays well, it's pretty to look at, it's straightforward, and it'll keep you 
 going for a few hours. But you're not going to come home and look forward to playing it or anything 
 like you would World of Warcraft or something. 
  I'm glad you can buy businesses and houses and stuff like that, but it's lacking in depth. I can 
 have a great time in knee deep water, but sometimes I want to get really deep into a game and lately 
 these top rated games like this seem to be missing that alot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KOTORkicker
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 3, 2009 7:57 am PT
Review:  Here is my review of Fable 2. Now, I'll start with -
  
  Overview:
  
  Fable 2 is (As most will have guessed from it's title) the sequel to Fable, one of the better RPG's 
 of last gen's fare. Now, whether or not this game has improved itself is debatable - Some will 
 find that it is a huge step forward overall, and some will find that it has both stepped forward 
 and back simultaneously (This is me) , and some still will find that it has declined in all respects.
 
  
  Graphics:
  
  Definitely the weak point of the game. The textures are bland and uninspired, and it looks worse 
 than Fable 1, in my opinion. It feels as if the developer (I would say developers, but Molyneux 
 would probably rip my head off and say that I was stealing his thunder) has just thrown all graphical 
 emphasis out the window. Had this been better, the game would be far, far better overall.
  
  Gameplay:
  
  The combat system works surprisingly well. It is intuitive, easy to use, and 
 most importantly, fun. It works best with melee weapons (As it is geared towards) and is slightly 
 clunking when using will. All in all, it works well.
  
  The side projects, such as blacksmithing, woodcutting, bartending, etc. work brilliantly, and could 
 quite comfortably be the best aspect of the game. Blacksmithing itself is an extremely profitable 
 enterprise, and is the easiest to make money with.
  
  The relationship system/interface can be amazingly obtrusive sometimes, but it works well for the 
 most part. The one pickle I have with this facet of the game is that it is incredibly easy to build 
 relationships, but nigh-on impossible to destroy them, though this would hardly be everyone's worry.
 
  
  Storyline:
  
  The storyline is good, though it relies a little heavily on the events of Fable. The main characters 
 are very good, and Lucien is one of the most dastardly villians I have come across in a game. The 
 multiple side-quests are fun, and profitable.
  
  Again I will say, A let-down in some respects.. Definitely a let-down in others. Molyneux needs 
 to buck his ideas up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: terryjameboy
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 3, 2009 2:52 am PT
Review:  ok the last fable game was really disappointing in alot of ways.... peter always promises alot and 
 only delivers 20 percent.. but this is not the review of fable again lol...... fable 2 offers alot 
 more and feels very engaging... i love the fact that in one section in the game... you have the 
 choice to either keep your experience points by doing evil deeds.. or stay good and lose some.... it 
 gives the player more of a choice .. than most mmorpg's where you choose A. to go left and B to 
 go right..... the only problem i had with the game.... is the same with part one... it feels too narrow.... its 
 not like elder scrolls where you can just roam into the forest and get lost.... and also your character 
 cant speak... he only does expressions... the dog seems like he has more of a personality than you 
 do.... it just feels like your character is empty and has no personality at all.... i understand 
 peter wanted to focus more on the player... but i mean look at mass effect... you was able to make 
 choices by choosing options and it still gave the player the feel of being commander Shepard... the 
 dog aspect of the game is genius ... when i first saw it... i thought of a hunter in WoW but its 
 totally different thank god lol.... your dog really feels like a pet and follows you around everywhere.... but 
 i STILLLLL dont know why xplay gave this best game award.... but i would have it as a runner up
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: bleedgreen2-1-5
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 2, 2009 9:18 pm PT
Review:  The idea of making many decisions that effect the outcome of the environment and so on is great, 
 you can be evil and currupt, or a goody goody hero, or neutral, you can fart burp, flip people 
 off and kick chickens across the street. You can work, buy property and rent it out or just live 
 in it, you can even pick up prostitutes or marry several people, you just cant let them find out 
 about the others or its not gonna be pretty.
  
  the graphics are average, the story is okay and the dog is cool.
  fighting is easy and you never 
 really die, you just loose expereince. there is a variety of villains but you will mainly face 
 bandits and there are a few trolls. weapon uprgrades and new clothing help because your character 
 looks goofy when the game first starts. interacting with civilians is fun and you will more than 
 likely mess around and free roam rather than stick mainly to the story
  
  all in all i give it an 8.5 and a must play for anyone, considering i play mainly sports games 
 and took a gamble on this one im pleased with the outcome
  
  Peace! Go Eagles! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MasterChief115
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 2, 2009 8:06 pm PT
Review:  Hello everyone. Today's review is on the game Fable II for the platform the Xbox 360. Now its time 
 for THE LIST! :P
  
  Graphics: Alright, graphics hmm major thought breath taking. I knew it was going to be great because 
 the Xbox version of Fable had great graphics, but WOW! It blew me away I loved the all of the people 
 in the game. I can't recall any of the people having the same model at all which considering how 
 large the world is, and all the towns is a very big accomplishment. So yeah graphics get a GRRREAT 
 score of 10!
  
  Gameplay: Well this is were it gets bad. The game starts out just like Fable 1 did well of course 
 not that story. Go from young child to teen to well thats it, which I thought was weird. Anyways, 
 the controls this time around were awesome, exept the building up of magic spells. My game had 
 me put spells in this thing and when I held down my right trigger it would build up, but not the 
 first spell it went up the list. Now idk about you but I didn't like this I would rather have it 
 like the last game. Have like three or four spells and you can pick between them and hold the trigger 
 down the get the mass effect. Oh well huh. The story in itself is alright. The places that you 
 go are nice, and keep you interested. Now the last part of the game is ALL and yes I mean ALL video 
 you don't do crap. Now the last game you fought a boss not this time. Spoiler!!!!! for people haven't 
 played stop now!!!
  Ok you use a music box from the beging of the game to weaken the dude, and then I killed him and 
 then I choose to either bring back all people that died from his plan, bring back my family, or 
 be rich. Well I picked family and my doggy =D Me love that dog. Anyways, yeah thats it so far until 
 we get a patch . Gameplay gets a 8.5
  
  Monsters: This is a new part to my reviews :P. I'm going straight into this one for Fable. Fable 
 II had the same freakin monsters from Fable 1!. I mean what the heck. Bandits, trolls, wolf dudes, 
 and little green people  .  Common on now either I'm not done with the game or the just suck at 
 making new things.
  this gets a 5
  
  Overall: Overall the game is good, not great but good. It just didn't feel in the type of tention 
 it made all of us feel waiting for it. SO the final score for Fable II is 7.5 
  
  Thanks for reading! MC 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jubbrulez
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 2, 2009 9:40 am PT
Review:  Well this is Fable II, Peter Molyneux's latest brain-child and perhaps the most crazily hyped game 
 EVER. And yes, once again, Molyneux has failed to deliver what he promised. Sigh.
  
  Graphics: Well at first glance it's very pretty, with the lovely lighting effects and the snow 
 falling down softly onto the freezing streets of Bowerstone. But as you move through the game, 
 things go downhill a bit. The model detail is relatively low, the textures are blurry and it all 
 gets just a bit too much. But in all, it's a fairly pretty game to look at.
  
  8/10
  
  Gameplay: Hmmmm. Well at first it's disjointed, boring and just a bit tedious really. But as you 
 move through the game, it opens up wonderfully. Choices are aplenty, but not what Molyneux promised 
 level of freedom. few of the choices impact your emotional stability and leave a bit to be desired. 
 The marriage part id fun if shallow as it can take about two minutes to get everyone around you 
 to fall desperately in love with you and is underwhelming. The fighting get loads better as you 
 unlock more abilities and can get wonderfully versatile. You just need a bit of patience. The co-op 
 feature, a heavily hyped feature of Fable II is really quite awful and should never be mentioned 
 again ever. Terrible camera and boring mechanics tear it down. I preffered the gameplay of the 
 original to be honest.
  
  7/10
  
  Lifespan: Depends and your own patience level and whether you like the changes made to the amazing 
 Fable template. DLC will improve the game's length bt right now it's short but very replayavle 
 and sandboxy.
  
  8/10
  
  
  Final score 7.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: celtic1962
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 2, 2009 9:07 am PT
Review:  First off I should state that I never finished the original Fable. Played it for a few hours and 
 then slowly started losing interest. There didn't seem to be any gripping story and I wasn't crazy 
 over the idea of wandering around trying to find something interesting to do. However, what I heard 
 about Fable 2 seemed more promising and felt it was worth a playthrough, though my expectations 
 were still kept somewhat low.
  
  PLAYABILITY (8.0) - Combat is a pretty simple affair that should be accessible to pretty much anyone 
 while at the same time having a bit of depth. You can decide on how to distribute certain experience 
 points, making your character extremely powerful in one particular aspect or creating a Jack-of-all-trades 
 that has decent skill in all three areas. As you'd expect the three areas of combat are melee, 
 ranged and magic. While I did dabble a bit in magic, using fireball spells, I mostly stuck to shooting 
 enemies repeatedly with my crossbow until they got close enough to me to switch to my sword. But, 
 the fact is that except for a few Boss battles you'll find almost all enemies very easy to defeat. 
 To make things even easier is the fact that if you're carrying life potions you'll be instantly 
 revived in the rare occasions you do get killed and you can continue to fight until you eventually 
 win. 
  
  GRAPHICS (8.5) - The world of Albion is quite a sight. Each area is very unique with its own charming 
 touch and looks like it was taken from a fairytale with its slightly cartoonish look. The varying 
 surroundings do make running some of the mundane tasks more interesting. You will see many repeating 
 people and monster models but they do have a fair amount of detail. Unfortunately with Albion being 
 separated into these areas it does mean a fair amount of time watching load screens as you travel.
 
  
  AUDIO (9.0) - The full orchestral scores add a sense of importance to your tasks while the topnotch 
 voice acting and sense of humor is certainly appreciated. Your protagonist remains silent and the 
 only way to communicate with other characters is through a series of expressions similar to the 
 Sims games.
  
  VALUE (8.0) - I don't know how long I had actually played the game when I finished the main quest 
 but it was considerably shorter than what you would expect from most RPGs, probably under twenty 
 hours. Of course this is one of those games that expects you to take advantage of the multitude 
 of extra-curricular activities available. There is a constant stream of not only sidequests available 
 but different jobs as well. Some such as wood chopping aren't too exciting but the Bounty Hunter 
 assignments can be fun. The sidequests have a nice variety, ranging from rescuing citizens to trying 
 to help a farmer find a wife for his son. There's also a number of things you can do with your 
 own life such as forming relationships and even running a business. While I did get married and 
 have a child I have to admit this part of the game didn't hold too much interest for me and I pretty 
 much stuck to looking for dangerous adventure.
  
  STORY/QUESTS (8.0) - What it seems to come down to is that we have a game that offers an incredible 
 amount of options but perhaps at the expense of a deep plot or characters, not necessarily a bad 
 choice depending on your own preferences. For instance using the Sims expression interactions will 
 affect how people feel about you but due to most people's lack of depth you don't end up with much 
 emotional attachment to anyone with the exception of your faithful dog. The story does have some 
 exciting moments, nothing really exceptional but still worthwhile.
  
  SUMMARY (8.0) - For what it's worth this game certainly kept my interest better than the original 
 did. The "Glowing Breadcrumb" trail, which always points out what direction to head to get back 
 to your primary quest, was helpful and made it more enjoyable to explore since I didn't have to 
 be concerned with getting lost. The production values are definitely above average and as long 
 as people understand that this game is not going to be too deep on plot they can have an enjoyable 
 time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VengfulPlatypus
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 2, 2009 7:55 am PT
Review:  Unlike the first fable, fable 2 wasn't totally drowned in the sea hype fable 1 was. It was hyped 
 for what was actually in the game not what was supposedly in the game. But it came out and exceeded 
 my expectations by delivering one of the best games of 2008. What makes fable 2 so great is the 
 fact that you cannot classify it as a true blue rpg but a seemingly new, fresh experience in a 
 season of blood-drenched shooters. The combat is by far the best I've played in any rpg. When combat 
 is simple, deep and fun in combination with beautiful visuals that truly bring this world to life 
 (especially the environments) and an epic scope of a game that lets you do so much and see and discover 
 so much you get an incredible game, but you can just call it fable 2. 
  By the way, the game has the most memorable score since halo.
  
  
  **graphics-9.2**
  **gameplay-9.5**
 
  **sound 9.7**
  **value-high**
  **real score 9.6**
  
  
  
  
  **real score 9.6** 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JKim89
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 2, 2009 1:01 am PT
Review:  fable 2 is a fun, as well as funny game. if you liked fable 1, then you'll like fable 2 for sure.
 
  
  graphics:
  its no gow2, but it still look pretty nice. didn't blow me out of the water though. i actually 
 felt that fable 1 sometimes had better graphics. there are tons of visual glitches in this game, 
 but they dont bother you too much since the game is so fun anyway. however, the world of albion 
 has been greatly expanded. towns are much bigger than before ,and there are many more npcs that 
 walk around. they all pretty much look like hte same though.
  
  gameplay:
  if you played fable 1, then the controls for this game might confuse you for the first hour or 
 so. gone are 20ish spells you could use in fable 1. now you can only choose from about 7, but upgrade 
 them all to very high levels. also, you cant move and strafe when casting spells or shooting weapons, 
 as you could in fable 1. i think melee combat is actually worsened. in fable 1, you could easily 
 switch between targets and dodge, but the controls are pretty confusing in fable 2. or, glitches 
 prevent you from carrying out a certain action.
  new thing about fable 2 is your dog that follows you wherever you go. he's a useful guy, sniffing 
 out treausre and dig spots and all that good stuff. didn't really have an emotional connection 
 with him though, as gamespot claimed. still he does have its uses, like killing enemies when they're 
 knocked to the ground. 
  singleplayer mode is much longer than in hte first one i believe. 
  clothing is also pretty different. 
 you dont actually have armor now in fable 2, just different outfits to pick from, which is kind 
 of a bummer.
  there is no longer a will bar, so you don't have to worry about restoring mana. you can't "die" 
 either, you just get knocked out, but you do receive permanent scarring. not good for those who 
 want their characters to look beautiful.
  
  sound:
  music is good, and voice acting is okay. everybody has this annoying british accent, and they all 
 say the same thing. still, some characters say teh funniest things in the funniest way. once you 
 get over the monotonous voice acting, you dont really care about the sound too much. background 
 music is pretty good i think.
  
  very fun rpg for those who enjoy singleplayer games. its a little deeper than the first game, but 
 its not that dramatic either. just play it for fun and giggles. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Musica12
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 1, 2009 11:50 pm PT
Review:  Well, I had asked for this game for Christmas, since I heard I about it, and sounded quite compelling. 
 Of the 4 games I had recieved, I played this one first, since it seems like a nicer pace for someone 
 still half asleep. I played for a little while, and I thought it was ok. I actually hadn't even 
 touched it since yesterday (6 days later) . I went a little further into the game, and before I 
 knew it, 5 hours had gone by. It's a highly addictive game (But not like World Of Warcraft, when 
 it becomes the air that you breathe) , never gets boring. There's always something to do, and you 
 never have one of those, "That's so unfair!" moments. 
  
  Anything is possible (And I mean ANYTHING) , which makes it very fun and creative (Hopefully didn't 
 lose your interest by saying that, since now looking back at it, that did sound kind of cheesy) .
 
  
  
  I highly recommend it, don't rent it, buy it. You won't regret it. ;) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Patohua1
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 1, 2009 8:47 pm PT
Review:  Ok first off let me say that I never played Fable I and so I am no comparing this game to its prodessesor, 
 so if that's what you're looking for don't read this because I have no idea. Alright so starting 
 out in the game is really bizzare. You start in a flashback, which in general i hate playing flashbacks 
 so I'm a little biased in this area. However, I did kind of find it a little pointless and demeaning. 
 I mean sure, there has to be some sort of tutorial, but honestly its an M rated game and the first 
 thing you do when you pop in the game is be a little kid and run errands to make a few bucks. Don't 
 get me wrong, the storyline of what's going on is fine, but I would much rather just have one really 
 long cutscene to start with, that is fine by me. Aside from the pathetic begging, I love this game. 
 I found it a blast to kill everything in my path, buy the entire world, and slow down time and 
 use a shotgun at the same time, I really did. Just to make things brief, I'll do what Gamespot 
 does and makes a pros and cons list...
  
  The Good:
  Visually, totally amazing. Not just the landscape either. Facial animations are spot on, and the 
 battles are stunning.
  Loads to do around the world and I just keep finding more and more to do that I had somehow missed 
 the first three times. House buying- excellent. Market stall and shop buying, really good idea 
 and its kinda cool to get your money in 5 minute increments like a salary.
  Good storyline. Sure, it's the run of the mill hero story, but it is somehow captivating and I 
 don't know about everyone else, but I actually felt kind of sad when people close to the character 
 died. Epsecially your best friend, that just sucked. Which is why I chose the Needs of the Few 
 to bring him back lol.
  Good battle setup with the ranged, melee, and mage attacks all being able to be used without switch 
 delay. I frequently charged into battle using magic, switched over to melee to knock people over, 
 and then shot them in the heads with my crossbow.
  Fun to mess with the crowds and make them laugh and stuff.
  It's fun to be evil and fun to be 
 good. Though either way people everywhere will know you.
  Oh and by the way. If you beat the game, you can buy yourself the castle you see in the beginning 
 and live in it which is awsome.
  The Bad:
  This game did NOT have to be rated M. It's more of a teen game anyways, however they stupidly chose 
 to include certain things in the game that really had no meaning and seemed to just be there to 
 claim it was worthy of the "M" rating it was given. For instance, why include a blackout scene 
 that still has sound when the main character and their spouse get into bed together? I mean it's 
 already implied here guys, that seems a little bit pointless and a bit embarassing that someone 
 actually intentionally put that in there. Also, whats with every single girl in the game wanting 
 to sleep with you and chasing you down 24/7? that's a little rediculous, it feels like some antisocial 
 geek designed that part because he was incapable of getting a girlfriend. All of the whores and 
 especially the dude ones are extremely annoying and I made it my goal in life to kill every single 
 one of them to make them shut up haha. Basically those two things plus a small amount of swearing 
 here and there is the only thing holding this back from a broader audience.
  Aside from the morals, however, there are some actual real issues with the gameplay itself.
  
 The zoomed targeting with ranged weapons sucks really bad. It's jerky, which is frustrating and 
 it's extremely hard to head shot anyone while in it.
  Ok and now this is my biggest problem with this game by far: The main character. Now I was a bit 
 annoyed that there is zero customizating here, however it is a role playing game so it is to be 
 expected. However, could I please not get stuck with gay-gay man?? I swear this dudes mad ugly 
 (even worse if you eat food to heal yourself and get fat) and looks mentally challenged! And the 
 clothes, ahhhh! There was only about one set of clothes I found in the entire game that did not 
 have frills or poofs or something else that would make me nausious. All of the "best: clothes were 
 downright embarassing. I just about wanted to shoot myself alot of times because of this. I have 
 no idea why this was an issue, but it was a MAJOR one.
  
  
  Overall I think that this is an excellent game and the overall story and gameplay and design are 
 spot on, but there are just certain things that I cannot believe that a game of such standing would 
 include and things that baffles me why they didn't change. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MeEatBrain
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 1, 2009 3:01 pm PT
Review:  As someone that usually hates RPG's, this one sucked me in and didn't let me go. Here's why;
  The combat. There's nothing I hate more in all of gamingdom than turn-based combat. I hate not 
 being able to control what happens to my character for even a second while I'm playing, so most 
 RPG's are out right off the bat. This one may be a hack 'n' slash, but I'll take mindless button 
 mashing over a waiting-to-see-what-happens system. And this isn't a completely mindless hack 'n' 
 slasher, the different weapons, the chain system and the magic make it a little more.
  The length. I have other things to do, I don't have 60-70 hours to put into a game. I also don't 
 like playing a game for 20 minutes to get to the next 15 minute movie. I finished this game in 
 like 15 hours with doing a bunch of side missions. That's just about perfect. 
  The hero. This is my #1 thing in games. It doesn't matter if it's a game, a movie or a tv show, 
 I need to care about the character. I have never felt more in control of what a character looked 
 like, acted like and how others reacted to her. I felt like I was in complete control of my character 
 the entire time.
  So there it is, a review from someone with no expectations of the game and low expectations from 
 the genere in general. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nokoryous
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 1, 2009 11:22 am PT
Review:  We return to the land of Albion 500 years after the original Fable, but has the world aged like 
 a fine wine or a sour cheese? Since I loved Fable, I expected a lot from this sequel. The makers 
 of Fable 2 promised a game where choosing between good and evil would deeply affect your character 
 and the game itself, alongside an abundance of opportunities to define yourself further by having 
 jobs, interacting with NPC's, and buying and selling property, benefitting from the revenue of 
 all that you own. Had the game presented any of these with depth, this great game would have been 
 remarkable.
  
  If you don't want to read much, here is the summary:
  Pro's: Good graphics, fun gameplay, no mana cost for magic, balanced abilities and good/evil options, 
 the dog, good humor, making money is easy, worthwhile side quests.
  Con's: Long loading, undeveloped characters, little variety, simple and short plot. Property mechanic, 
 NPC relationships, and world of Albion are just too shallow/small. 
  
  Now for an extensive review:
  
  As promised, Albion gives you a lot of options of how you want 
 to play this game. You can be good or evil. You can hold a job or be a property tycoon. You can 
 quest or settle down and have a family. Yet not one of these things feel like they are a self-sufficient 
 feature in Fable 2. NPC relationships are as simple as ever, and every person that you have never 
 spoken to in the game will want to marry you by the end if you take the good route. The property 
 management feature is super-simplified, but considering that you could only buy one house per town 
 in the first game, the upgrade here seems pretty choice. And, because the plotline is so short, 
 you will want to experience all of these features to feel the full effect of the game instead of 
 getting to focus your efforts on one.
  
  Plot:
  This is one short plotline-about 10 to 15 hours long for just the main story-and being an RPG, 
 the shortness does not give it opportunity for setting up any grand scheme to prevent, or to create 
 intriguing asides or to offer good plot surprises. Side quests are a must to get your money's worth 
 on this purchase.
  
  The main villain is disappointingly detached from your progress until the end of the game, making 
 the final encounter seem less climactic. The story here is less compelling than the original and 
 your companions that you meet along the way are few, but not so few as memorable villains.
  These flaws make it such a relief to find rich optional content in the side quests. You will find 
 the same old Demon Doors and Silver Key chests are back, but new additions like the Gargoyle quest 
 will have you scouring the world over again for tough-to-find rewards.
  
  Fable 2 receives a demerit for following old guidelines to the point of plagiarism. Many of the 
 more creative instances of the original Fable will quickly come to mind as you play through different, 
 yet nearly identical sequences of this new chapter (one of many shamefully redressed elements in 
 this sequel) . Given, the reproduced sections were some of the best parts of the first game, but 
 gamers would have benefited more by new ideas that are equally fun being presented instead. I will 
 note however that this also lends to the feel that you are back in Albion, the world of Fable, 
 and though it has changed, its presence is preserved in many wonderful ways throughout this adventure. 
 So I guess I'll take that demerit back
  
  Gameplay:
  Several great advances are made in this game to simplify often nonsensical norms of other RPG's. 
 First of all, you are able to forego the actual journey to any visited region of Albion, and may 
 simply choose to load that area immediately at any time. The only change made is that it progresses 
 in-game time a few hours to compensate for the journey. Gamers must realize that this privilege 
 is a factor in the game's short length, and for the purist who wants to walk everywhere, you are 
 certainly free to drudge through all the goons along the way, picking up experience as you go, 
 and probably lengthening your game by 10% or more. And anywhere you go, you won't have any trouble 
 finding your way, because there is a handy little line of golden glow that will subtly lead you 
 to your next quest or destination as chosen by you. No more aimless wondering, and unshuffling 
 of towns with similar fantasy names in your head. Just follow the yellow brick road. The dog will 
 help you hunt down treasure chests and buried goods, just so long as you are willing to heed his 
 helpful barking. A "sprint swimming feature" that lets you hold the A button to swim unrealistically 
 fast. Too much time is wasted in RPG's just swimming (WOW, I'm looking at you) , so bravo on this 
 choice to break a rule. Also, I love the dog. He helps you find treasure making you less prone 
 to rely on a FAQ or expensive guide book to find treasure and items in this game as long as you're 
 willing to pay attention to the subtle barking. All of these concepts make great additions and 
 cut some unnecessary RPG fat off of this lean machine.
  
  Take some time to really look around the beautiful world of Albion. Though it is not as explorable 
 as you might like, confining you often to linear roads and paths, it exceeds in beauty in the lush 
 vegetation, unique cartoonized architecture, and especially the radiant lighting effects. It would 
 have been nice to have more world out there, but the offered environments will frequently divulge 
 new secrets if you take time to explore.
  
  Whether you choose to be good or evil, you are ultimately let down that neither choice has a profound 
 effect on the gamer as most of your decisions don't feel like they are providing the moral dilemma 
 they should be for a game using this factor as such a central element. The real joy of decision 
 making in the game lies in the often hilarious events that occur as a result of your choice. Several 
 of the response scenes will have you cutting up. Fortunately, the good and evil system is more 
 balanced this time, as you no longer receive Good points for slaying every enemy who is trying 
 to kill you as in the original Fable, making it appropriately easy to become evil if that is your 
 choice.
  
  Combat:
  Battles give you great opportunity to hone your varied abilities and figure out a combat style 
 that is unique to you, depending on how heavily you rely on your melee, ranged, or magic skills. 
 Returning players can wave goodbye to the better lock on system of the first game where now the 
 computer chooses the nearest target in front of you. This makes some battle sequences more difficult, 
 and others too cheap, but ultimately it works. 
  
  Weapons in this game feel very linear until the very end. A sword is a sword, and a mace is not 
 too different. Guns were a great addition though, and offer variety within their different types 
 as well as giving you the option of a crossbow instead. The ability to add augments lets you add 
 fire damage to a weapon or let you collect gold if you kill an enemy etc., giving you a chance 
 to make some ordinary gear into something more your own.
  
  One big improvement in this sequel is the will meter has been done away with, meaning there is 
 no mana or MP in this game. So though you must charge most spells, you will never run out of magic.
 
  
  This leads to the biggest improvement in this sequel which is a better balance between your Strength, 
 Skill, and Will abilities. The first game made it clear that the only way the average gamer would 
 survive is by an extensive use of melee combat (of course, this excludes you guys who are posting 
 "Will User Only" challenge FAQ's for those with a penchant for pain) . This time, those who like 
 to snipe or burn their enemies won't feel so penalized. 
  
  The dog is no help in combat, though it is fun to watch him perform the coup de grace on a stunned, 
 prostrate enemy.
  
  Characters:
  Fable 2 shines in the comedy of character dialogue. Unfortunately, the dialogue often seems unnatural, 
 like every sentence is waiting for the disc to start spinning to queue it as opposed to being one 
 fluent conversation. Still, dialogue is written well with solid voice acting.
  
  The character modeling is good in variety, and the clothing is well chosen for the era but I often 
 felt that this new generation console try would have been a great opportunity to go for realistic 
 looking characters in the Fable franchise. The wardrobe you choose from is interesting, but limited, 
 and you never get a chance to get into any really tough-looking gear, even by the end of the game, 
 but you can use dyes to change the color of the clothes you own if you prefer a different look.
 
  
  Interface:
  Graphics are beautiful, and spells feel large and powerful, but there is frequent slowdown, and 
 fierce loading times. You will find frequent bugs too, like characters walking through objects 
 or signs that you cannot read when it displays an option to read it by pressing a button, but none 
 of the issues I ran into affected my gameplay at all.
  
  Menus are slow to respond, poorly organized, and much text is nearly unreadable on my 20" screen. 
 Bigger TV's won't have that problem I am sure. Also, the maps are confusing, small, and overly 
 simplistic, but you can mostly manage without them.
  
  Where there should have been cut scenes, the game simply leaves you in "control" of your immobilized 
 character and resorts to giving you a zoom feature to help find the action. It is poor design though, 
 and in many plot situations you are "squinting" with your ears to discern what a muffled character 
 is saying all because you chose the wrong camera angle.
  
  
  In the end, my high hopes left me a bit let down by all the problems the gameplay had and more 
 than anything with the new and exciting opportunities promised by the producers turning out to 
 be nothing more than unprofitable time-wasters. However, this game seems to get richer as you go 
 on, and the latter half of the game is far more engaging than the first. As long as you don't rob 
 yourself of the opportunity to partake in all the extra quests and minigames in Fable 2, you will 
 feel rewarded in this great RPG, and see that some of the best content in games doesn't have to 
 be confined to the main plot. Despite shortcomings on some of the promises of the developer, this 
 game is a joy to play. Don't miss one of the best games of 2008.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: lucarioownz1
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 1, 2009 3:27 am PT
Review:  Plunge into the land of Albion a land of heroes and villians or on second thought just villians. 
 Sparrow (YOU) is a 11 year old homeless boy (or girl)
  who him and his sister Rose stumble upon a magic music box that will grant you 1 wish. They wish 
 to live in Luciens castle but it goes horribly wrong he is trying to rebuild the evil spire and 
 finds out that one of you is the legendary 4th hero of Albion (Whatever that is) and shoots you 
 and your sister. unfortunately your sister dies but fortunately you live to be the hero of albion.
 
  
  Now without the ramblings of a poor peasant listen to what i have to say about it.
  
  Graphics: The graphics are not that bad in fable 2. personally i can see most details in the monsters 
 and the areas in general. The colours they use aswell can show you what an area is like. for example 
 wraithmarsh as soon as i saw all the vibrant, dark and eyrie colours i knew straight away that 
 there were dark powers in it or in Bowerstone i knew it was a place with rich snobs who value themselves 
 over everyone else.
  
  gameplay: Fable 2 has a very simple style of gameplay that is easy to learn. you can use meele 
 (x) magic (b) and range (y) or in other words strength, will and skill. You can precisley choose 
 what your character does for an even more unique style of gameplay.
  
  Storyline: I will say first off i was very disapointed with the ending and especially after the 
 very excellent storyline in the beginning and middle. Mind you though fable 2 has barely any story 
 line it just depends if you want to be good or evil ( EVIL ALL THE WAY BABY!) though i am talking 
 of the main quest in which you have to recruit the 3 legendary heroes of strength, skill and will 
 to defeat Lucien but i won't spoil it for you ( Boooo!! Spoil it! ) fine in the end you kill Lucien 
 happy now! ( Nooooo!!!!! ) 
  
  recomendation and rating: I rate Fable 2 8/10 it has a very easy gameplay good graphics and so 
 and so storyline. Personally i would recomend this to ages 13+ who still enjoy fantasy, fighting, 
 magic and just being plain evil or good mainly evil. Hope you enjoyed the review Luacarioownz1 
 out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BIGGDOGG91
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 31, 2008 10:26 pm PT
Review:  the original fable was one of my favorite role playing games of all time never before had i played 
 a game when my choices would affect my character in everyway shape or form. although it lacked 
 a strong story it was one of my favorite games to play and now after 4 long years fable 2 is here 
 and all i can say 
  
  story:
  fable 2 has an average story at best but it is much improved over the original's simple tale of 
 revenge. you start out as a young boy or girl who's life is turned upside down after a simple wish 
 goes wrong. over the course of your life you will go through many challenges in order to pursue 
 the villian who started it all. you get some help along the way but the lack of character depth 
 in both ur hero or ur supporting cast makes it hard to get sucked in however its worth it to find 
 out the big choice you have to make in the games climax. the ending is somewhat a dissapointment 
 but the "choice" is way bigger and tougher to make then the original fable
  
  8/10
  
  Graphics:
  BEAUTIFUL!!!!!!! cartoony with great art design. a few minor bugs and glitches here 
 and there but overall a pleasure to look at.
  
  9.5/10
  
  sound: very similair to the storybook orchestral esche style of fable. very compelling soundtrack
 
  
  10/10
  
  Gameplay: like its predecessor there are 3 different types of melee attacks in fable 2 regular 
 melee (swords, hammers) , ranged attacks (guns, crossbows) , and will (magic) the combat and leveling 
 up system is nearly identical to fable's addicting combat system. as you battle you'll absorb experience 
 orbs there are four types strength skill will and general exp you gain general exp for every fight 
 and the other 3 for w/e type of style u use during the battle. u use these orbs to upgrade ur abilities 
 in all 3 combat styles which allows for alot of variations. fable 2 is also alot more immersive 
 then the original game you can buy a house and live in it get married or have sex (protected or 
 unprotected) have children get a job to earn money and on top of everything else you get a dog!!!!! 
 fable 2 is a truly addicting game i couldnt put it down till i finished the game like 5 hours a 
 day lol
  
  10/10
  
  value:
  while you can probobly complete fable 2 in 10-15 hours there is so much to do in albion that youll 
 keep coming back for more and it should take u atleast 30 hours to complete everything. def rental 
 if not purchase.
  
  10/10
  
  despite a few small glitches. fable 2 is perfect it emproves on it's predeccessor in nearly every 
 way and in my opinion (havent played fallout 3 yet so this could change) is the best RPG available. 
 everyone should experience fable 2 and what magic albion has to offer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LrdofArmageddon
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 31, 2008 5:39 pm PT
Review:  POINT OF GAME: Create your very own hero and go on many quests that are fun, addicting, and very 
 creative as you explore the mythical world of Albion. Your main quest is to defeat Lord Lucien, 
 who killed your charaters' sister as a child, and is on a mad mission to build the Tattered Spire, 
 which grants a single wish to one who uses the spires' powers. Your main quest will probably take 
 about 10 hours to beat, however, to complete the game entirely 100% would take way, way longer 
 (at least 100 hours, they say) .
  
  GRAPHICS (6/10) : The graphics are pretty much decent. Not the best I've seen on the Xbox 360, but 
 they are pretty tolerable. Now, the cutscene graphics look awesome (the seawater in one scene looked 
 amazing) . The same cannot be said for the in-game graphics. They look fairly average at the least, 
 and in some places, the graphics look like they could have been pulled off on the original Xbox. 
 The character animations look a little stiff and certain environments seem a bit... meh. The water 
 in-game looks kinda weird and spectacular effects are kind of hard to notice. But, overall, the 
 graphics are not that bad. I was just expecting more. However, there are also a couple of things 
 I want to point out. The physics engine (Havok) functions a little weirdly in this game. Characters 
 will die and their bodies will hit the ground and bend in the most ridiculous ways possible and 
 sometimes, the engine will glitch out. I killed a monster and all of a sudden, it's body started 
 bouncing around the room endlessly. I have also seen NPC's phase through walls (rarely, but it's 
 happened enough for me to make it worth mentioning) , and my character's wife was actually standing 
 in the middle of a bed at one point.
  
  SOUND (9/10) : The music is awesome, that's all I really gotta say about it. The voice-acting is 
 mostly okay, however, a bit off in a few places. Some NPC's have bad accents, but overall, they 
 did an pretty good job on the voice acting. The sound effects... all I need to say is, they are 
 fun to listen too.
  
  CONTROLLING AND PLAYABILITY (9.5/10) : The controls are solid and they work. The only problem I 
 have with the controls is that the "B" button, which is normally associated as a cancel butten, 
 triggers your magic, or Will, powers. Doing so in the middle of a town can cause a panic. The playability 
 is very workable. The targeting system is nearly-perfect and you can switch between using melee, 
 ranged, or magical attacks very quickly, making combat easy to work with. Your expression wheel 
 is opened up by using the right bumper and it will display many expression you can perform in public. 
 The camera is also very cooperative most of the time, and very rarely will it become a problem, 
 which is good. The leveling system on this game is very creative too. You can channel your experience 
 in battle into three abilities: Strength, Skill, and Will. Strength affects your talent with melee 
 weapons, Skill is for ranged weapon skills, and Will determines your ability to use magic. The 
 game functions like it should and very rarely does something poorly in this part.
  
  ENTERTAINMENT (8/10) : Overall, I have to say the game is very entertaining and it would have gotten 
 a higher score if not for a few problems with the story, which I will go into in a little bit. 
 Basically, the game has much in store for you. You can adventure alone with your trusty and loyal 
 dog, or you can have your character settle down, find a wife, and raise a family. This game functions 
 a lot like certain life simulators, like the Sims. You can get a job, buy property, and loads of 
 other things. Your expressions and your actions can have an effect on the people around you and 
 the land of Albion itself. Which reminds me, your character can have alignments in this game as 
 well. Your Hero can be good or evil. Your actions will also affect your characters appearance. 
 Be good and your character will look pure, while being evil has the opposite effect. Your characters' 
 eating habits also affect your apperance. Eating too much meat and drinking to much liquor will 
 fatten up your Hero, while eating veggies will thin him/her down. You can buy property and increasing 
 their prices will show a sign of corruption, while lowering them is a sign of purity. You can equip 
 many weapons, clothing, and even alter your character's hairstyle, and decorate him with tattoos 
 or makeup if you wish. Your ability development will also affect your character's appearance. Focus 
 on Strength and your character gets more muscular. Focus on Skill and your character will grow 
 taller. Focus on Will and magical glowing Will lines will develop on your Hero's body. Your bad 
 actions can also affect your game. Steal, murder, extort, etc. and it will show your character's 
 evil disposition. Hell, go around half-naked and get busted for public indecency. Certain laws 
 will also affect you. Kill innocent people and either get fined, attend community service, or resist 
 arrest. Your choices affect you and the world around you. The combat in game is nearly-perfect 
 and will keep you entertained and ready to look for even more action. There are stronger enemies 
 which can serve as boss battles. These include trolls and banshees, as they require certain strategy 
 to beat. However, there is one problem I need to mention: YOU CANNOT DIE! That's right, you heard 
 me. YOU CAN'T DIE. You can get knocked out and when you get knocked out, you lose any uncollected 
 experience and get a permanent scar, which affects your character's attractiveness and apperance. 
 However, if you don't really give a damn about your Hero's appearance, then the fact that you cannot 
 die might make things quite a bit too easy. 
  
  Basically, there is so much to do in this game, I can't even list anymore of it, except for the 
 main quest. 
  
  I need to talk about the story of your main quest to stop Lord Lucien. It involve you finding three 
 Heroes: The Hero of Strength, the Hero of Skill, and the Hero of Will. They will help you in your 
 quest to defeat Lucien. The main plot is very interesting and compells you to play the game even 
 further, even with a while lot of other stuff to do. However, it can get a bit confusing at times, 
 and at a couple of points, it is weird enough to make you go "WTF?" 
  
  (SPOILER ALERT!)
  I REALLY don't want to have to spoil it for any of you, but I HAVE to talk about the ending of 
 the main quest. Why? Because I think it sucks. You basically acquire this ancient magical music 
 box and you take it to the spire. You're about to face Lord Lucien. He is using the three Heroes 
 to use the power of the spire to grant his wish. You walk up to him and he starts talking. You 
 then hold down "A" so you can use the magical music box to drain the power he is getting from the 
 Heroes. So now you're expecting an epic, kick-ass final battle with the man who killed your sister 
 and threatened to destroy all of Albion, right? WRONG. After you drain the power (very easily, 
 mind you) , he starts talking his mouth off AGAIN. You then simply press "Y" to shoot him once and 
 he's dead. That's it. He doesn't even fight back. Okay... seriously... what the hell? That is very 
 lame. You then get to make a single wish and then you're free to explore Albion to your hearst 
 content. Basically:
  
  Ending of Fable 2 = Lame
  
  Overall, though, this game can be quite fun. I'm still trying to complete all the missions and 
 quests, while at the same time, making my Hero live life with family, and also going out to beat 
 up the occassional monster, bandit, or assassin. This game is very entertaining.
  
  REPLAY (3/5) :
  The only reason it gets a good score is because you can create multiple Heroes 
 and play as them. Other than that, if you didn't like the main story, there is no sense in replaying 
 the main quest.
  
  PRO's:
  - Good, solid controls that work well.
  - Loads of missions and quests to complete.
  - Great entertainment.
  - Smooth combat and targeting 
 system
  - Good control over your character's ability growth.
  - Cutscene graphics look amazing.
  - Fairly decent graphics in many places.
  - Story is interesting.
 
  - Good voice-acting
  
  CON's:
  - One of the lamest endings I've ever seen in a game.
  - Some graphics don't look all that spectacular.
  - Physics engine functions weirdly at times.
 
  - The game may glitch (rarely, but enough to worth mentioning) .
  - While the story is interesting, it can get weird at times.
  
  BOTTOM-LINE:
  If you are 
 interested in the RPG genre, you have to at least check this game out. While the graphics are only 
 decent and the story is interesting, but flawed in several places, the game is overall worth getting 
 if you like the RPG genre. Even if you are not a fan however, this game is still worth a rent. 
 All in all, the game, although a little flawed, is worth buying and it is very enjoyable. I recommend 
 it to anyone who has a 360 and either likes RPG's or is willing to try it out.
  
  FINAL SCORE: 8/10
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ninjanan
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 31, 2008 3:00 pm PT
Review:  This game is great but unfortunately it does not last very long. After creating a hero and affecting 
 the future in childhood you wake ten years later in a huge hard to find you way world. But that 
 dosent last a long time after many quests you fin your self in ( { [spoiler alert) } ] the spire and 
 make even more choices that affect your charecter when you get back some things have changed but 
 not much. anyways so after the last battle oh wait another minor flaw it only take like one shot 
 to kill lucien. you have to make a choice ( { [no mor spoilers) } ]
  after that theres not much else except buying every proprotey you see. but i found that you can 
 lengthen you time with fable2 by starting anew and makeing the oppisite moral choices you did before. 
 this gives you a chance to see the oppisite spectrum of Albion. For me it was much easier for my 
 to get money because i sacrifacied like 300 people at the temple o' shadows=) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: noxboxlive
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 31, 2008 8:11 am PT
Review:  ok so i have played the hole game and it was great a bit to much hype but still a great game...
 
  the story is that you are a hero and you must find the rest of the other 3 remaning hero's then 
 stop the evil lord. once i finished the main quest i found it to be too short , i was left there 
 saying was that it? but happily i could play on and soon finished the game 3 times in about 2 weeks. 
 but soon horror struck and one of my saves became unusable since my char was stuck in brigthwood, 
 i small reigion in the game. this brings me on to the other thing the open space, the free roming. 
 Now me being a oblivion fan expexed it so be more open but it turned out like the first fable.
 
  
  Some fetures were good you could by houses have kids. they were quite fun. get a job, or join a 
 evil temple and saccrifice to the dark gods (very fun. and evil) 
  
  Gold is the money and theres lots of it .jobs are easy so you can get lots from that and buying 
 houses and putting the rent up gives you more so soon enoth your a millionare.
  
  combat was fun becuse it was so easy since the ablity to never die and never run out of mana. The 
 weapon choice was not that good but you could add stuff like fire and ligthing on a master hammer.
 
  
  in all it glory fable 2 was a very fun game but PM did say to much and i found the game was lacking 
 somthing to stop it from getting a higher rating 9.0 could be a 10 or a 9.5 but the the game being 
 buggy gave it a lower score
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: tyrant03
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 30, 2008 8:18 pm PT
Review:  The original Fable was my very first Xbox game that came with my limited edition Christmas console 
 pack. It was a classic and very addicting so naturally, I was looking forward to a 2nd installment. 
 Fable 2 was sort of a disappointment to me in a way. Don't get me wrong though, the game was fantastic 
 but I was just sort of expecting more. It basically felt like I was playing a high-res remake of 
 the original. I would like to see maybe a bigger world and more character morphs in Fable 3. Also, 
 there wasn't a whole lot to do in the world. It only took me about a week to obtain all but 3 achievements 
 in the game and that was even actually earned. I didn't just see another hero do them. They wouldn't 
 even really need to release a full blown sequel cause with downloadable content, they could fix 
 all the issues that this game has. Any RPG fan will love this game, hands down. It's fun, addicting 
 and deep.. just not as deep as I would have liked it to be 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FireshotCU
Rating: 2
Date: Dec 30, 2008 5:34 pm PT
Review:  There is a huge glitch in this game that MANY have encountered. There is a mission in Oakfield 
 where you visit an abbot... make sure you listen to the entire conversation!!!! If you cut him short, 
 you are screwed and will never get to the mission, basically ending the game for you. Lionhead 
 is "working" on a patch... been 2 months since it was reported! For this reason, i will not recommend 
 this game and will never buy another lionhead product. If not for this problem, the game would 
 be average at best. Decent graphics and story line, but incredibly too easy and painstakingly repetitive. 
 To make money you can make swords and chop wood and after about 30 min of either, you feel like 
 you've just given yourself a lobotomy. The glitch is just too pathetic. It'd be one thing if they 
 found it early, fixed it and had it working in a reasonable amount of time. Well no, two months 
 after it was discovered and no fix as of Dec 30th. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XDGRifle
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 30, 2008 4:57 pm PT
Review:  Fable 2 is a great RPG that even non RPG fans might even enjoy. You can do what ever you want in 
 that game and there is such freedom. There are many quests in the game that are very fun. There 
 are so many mini games in the game. There are pub games to make money and there are many side jobs 
 you can do in the game to make money too. The main objective in the game is to avenge your sisters 
 death. The awsome part like in the first game is you can choose between Evil and Good. If you start 
 stealing and commiting bad deeds you start to grow horns on your head. The game is so addicting 
 and you can play it for such a long time and it never gets borring. There is alot of downloadable 
 content for the game. The graphics in the game are also great and stunning. The thing i dont like 
 is no Online play but what else are you going to do. But overall great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shazam777
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 30, 2008 9:36 am PT
Review:  Fable II is a must have for all Xbox 360 owners. It's many great features and assets will have 
 players wanting more. Lets start with the combat system, never in any game I have played has the 
 combat system been both very simplistic, and very fluent. It has a realistic feel to it (in particular 
 the Flourish style for melee weapons) , and the spell selector is really easy to use, and to access 
 spells (as is charging a certain spell to achieve more dangerous levels) . The graphics are beautiful. 
 You can tell that the design team put an abundance of effort into it, especially the water, terrain, 
 and sunlight. The only problem I can think of with the graphics is the treasure sequence, sometimes 
 your dog gets "trapped" into the treasure chest, it is more than likely just a small graphic bug. 
 The jobs, and various expressions are a blast to do, and see what kind of reactions you will get. 
 Anything from playing a song on your lute, or even ripping a huge fart will be sure to entertain 
 people in the communities. The last thing I will talk about is the dog. He is your companion throughout 
 most of the game (I do not want to spoil anything, so lets put it as you have an option late in 
 the game to keep him forever, or not) . He will do things from finding dig spots (this is really 
 helpful) , and helping you in combat. This proves as a very valuable asset, providing there is not 
 a mini-map (which I greatly miss from Fable I, and is my biggest issue with the game, however the 
 towns are easy to remember where everything is) . I hope this helps people who are undecided about 
 buying a game with so much hype, this game is very much worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jjroma
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 29, 2008 4:16 pm PT
Review:  Before anything, I'd like to say that english is not my 1st language, and there may be some strange 
 selection of words. Like this whole sentence. =P
  
  Fable 2 is a very pretencious game that allows you to play with the world of Albion, working, getting 
 married, buying buildings and... that's it. 
  
  The game has some pros: is quite fun to play with the world, some kind of hack'n slash The Sims. 
 There's some interesting caracters, some fun expressions, and lots of funny stuff that commoners 
 says. 
  
  Some quests are very engagings, but you will probably spend most of your time playing with the 
 world, doing side quests and getting richer. 
  
  The battle system is quite good and entertaining. Even after you maxed out (i'll talk about it 
 later) it's still fun to slash and burn bandits and hobbes. 
  
  Well, now the list of cons:
  
  Battle: There's few kind of enemies to fight. And it's very 
 very easy to beat them. You'll max out your abilities quite fast and after that, there will be 
 no reason to fight anymore. And they promissed that the dog would help you in battle what actually 
 does not happen.
  
  Its too easy to make money, and you can buy potions for experience, what makes even easier to 
 max out your abilities, what makes the game even easier. I felt very sorry for those who bought 
 the Tavern games for Xbox Live Arcade, since they are lucky based, and its very frustrating (it's 
 the harder way to make money) . 
  
  It could look better. The graphics it's a little inferior for the today's standards.
  
  And 
 it's buggy. Not only graphics, colision problems, but the whole gaming system. Quests that does 
 not dissapear from the list after being completed, stats that does not change when you change, 
 unpredictable reactions from the same commoner, dog swimming away for good (try throwing the ball 
 on the water) , and the list may go forever. 
  
  And for a game that inpires you to do some kind of customization, there are few options for clothing, 
 hairstyles and etc. Even Weapons are limited. 
  
  And, the worst of all, the Grand finalle. Grand? The end is very very disappointing. It's a very 
 short game.
  
  What I realise after spending lots of hours playing Fable 2 was that I was playing with a toy, 
 not a real game. Challenge was easily bypassed and the whole experience is about living a life 
 in Albion. 
  
  I recommend Fable 2 to people that are not looking for a real Adventure RPG, more for a social/casual 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hahnasty
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 28, 2008 5:25 pm PT
Review:  Fable II is the perfect game to play if you are looking to immerse yourself into RPGs. Most RPGs 
 are extremely in depth and it is kind of a shock when you try to start up playing one (like Oblivion 
 type games) but Fable II is one of the more simple RPGs that can start your thinking in the right 
 direction. You have unlimited ammo, and dying doesn't really hurt you. So this is the greatest 
 RPG to let you learn what the genre is about.
  The point of the game is to earn experience by killing enemies throughout the game. It does take 
 some time to gain enough experience to buy anything that is really helpful, but it goes by fast. 
 One somewhat frustrating thing is that any sword you use during the game is not that great. You 
 have to learn how to combine the use of guns, magic, and melee attacks to efficiently kill your 
 enemies. The story is pretty simple, nothing new there, but your choices make the game interesting.
 
  Anything that you choose to do effects the world around you. If you decide to be evil or do bad 
 things, then the world will be a run down place. However, if you are a good hero, then your world 
 will prosper. This is what makes the game interesting. It even goes as far as if you eat pies, 
 you will get fat, whereas if you eat veggies, you will stay in shape. All these little aspects 
 of the game make it interesting and extremely worth playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -Bryce-
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 27, 2008 9:42 pm PT
Review:  I bought this game 2 days ago, right after Christmas when i got my Xbox 360 and it was one of the 
 most fulfilling RPG's I've ever played.
  You start as a kid, and work your way up in the world by completing quests and getting that 5 gold 
 for your wish.
  I was surprised as to how good the graphics were and the way the game went along. It's not one 
 of the game's where you complete the main story and then its just another one of those games that 
 sits there on your desk or on your floor and hasn't been touched for years, there is so much more 
 in it than just the Main story.
  From buying a house and getting married to going back to your home town and slaughtering everybody, 
 this game has something for all RPG fan's and would be a good game to start off with.
  Overall an extremely good game and would definitely recommend it for everybody. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Awsomecal
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 31, 2008 9:47 am PT
Review:  I got Fable 2 for christmas this year and was so amazed by its content.
  Morphing your hero from god to bad, prostitutes (believe it or not) , clothing range, your dog, landscape, 
 quests all add up to make Fable 2 a very addictive game. I spent 5 hours straight playing it on 
 Christmas. The voice acting is superb and (minor spoiler) the three wishes at the end really put 
 me in a difficult situation (Minor spoiler) .
  A downside to Fable 2 is its extremely short main quest, if you did nothing else but the main quest, 
 you could finish the game in around 8 hours. Some graphical issues also bring this game down.
 
  However, the ending was horrible and really brought this game down. It was as if LionHead got 
 lazy at the last hurdle. But the (minor spoiler) three choices/wishes (spoiler) may help you to 
 overlook this problem.
  Overall, Fable 2 isa great game that was brought down in value due to small problems. I reccomend 
 it to any RPG fan, it is a new twist to the genre. Its a refreshing break from the typical japanese 
 RPGs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarthJavelin
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 27, 2008 11:25 am PT
Review:  I hadnt played the first fable and i wasnt sure about the second. But I decided to play Fable 2 
 and im still having a blast playing it. The Graphic design of everything is amazing from the small 
 things you notice (like how the sun Looks AMAZING) , or the Large things (like how character design 
 is great) . The AI is fun to intertact with, And the dog you get is a great companion who can find 
 treasure and digging areas. The sound is great from bussling cities with the banking of a blacksmiths 
 hammer or the Stall owner yelling to passerby about his wares. Fable 2 is a fun game but some things 
 are noticeably bad. For example you will see that some NPCs look exactly the same and sound the 
 same too, And how your dog might find a dig spot but he will run into a fence until you lead him 
 around it. Overall Fable 2 is a great game and a must buy for RPG lovers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vinnie_jones_
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 27, 2008 8:30 am PT
Review:  I'm perhaps not the biggest RPG player, but I have played a few and as such expected this follow 
 up to the '#1 RPG on Xbox' ( I never played the original Fable) to surpass or even match the likes 
 of Diablo 2 or Oblivion - sadly, it did not.
  
  Overall, Fable 2 is good for the recent RPG games on the market, however there are several noticable 
 flaws that bring it down from what could have been a superb game:
  
  The game lacks any punishment system - you can commit as much crime as like, and whilst fun at 
 first, the ability to steal, cheat and murder as much as you like and then simply say you'll do 
 the community service (and never actually do it) makes many of the goals of the game seem redundant. 
 And as the Gamespot review said the lack of punishment for death takes any thrill out of the combat.
 
  
  The combat itself is quite vapid, it's just the standard hack and slash formula no skill required 
 and no thought needed. You'll also find yourself facing the same enemies again and again with no 
 strategy required and no variation for any of the eneimies, just chop its face off!
  
  The combat is further let down by the poor selection of weapons and spells - No new or exciting 
 weapons, you'll soon have the most powerful weapons and the spells seem to be useless when a quick 
 chop of the sword can do nearly the same damage in a few seconds. The weapons aren't particularly 
 collection worthy - you won't be manically looking for the right weapon for your character or searching 
 for that special magic sword - the money system means there's no reward in getting that best weapon.
 
  
  Speaking of the money system it seems rather pointless, you can easily purchase the best end weapons 
 with little to no work and beyond that there's no need for money - except clothing which may as 
 well be free - and of course so you can buy houses to make more money.
  
  The biggest let down was the good and evil factor - what I consider to be the selling point - there's 
 no real reason to pick either, you won't look overtly evil and you don't get anything for being 
 either (except perhaps money) . There aren't many moral choices and the ones you can make don't 
 seem to have real effect on the world at large.
  
  Unlike most RPGs there is no return factor in this game - you don't specialise the charater so 
 you won't be returning to try a different path and the good and evil don't differ that greatly.
 
  
  Lastly, the graphics. This was my first game on xbox360 and I am very disapointed much of the scenery 
 appears jagged where it shouldn't and the cartoonish characters look cheap rather than endearing.
 
  
  I could list other minor faults but these were the main ones that annoyed me, whilst it is a solid 
 RPG these flaws stop it from being anything really special.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ssj5_nick
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 26, 2008 6:58 pm PT
Review:  It seems as though Fable two brought a few things that the first fable didn't have, but the new 
 and more enjoyable things were outweighed by the frustrating and missing aspects. I am glad I borrowed 
 it, and I don't believe you would be dissapointed if you bought it. To make things clear, I will 
 take the time to explain why I believe it wasn't as powerful as the first.
  
  First of all, the story isn't quite a bit less coherent, It wasn't bad, it was just annoyingly 
 hard to understand. And the new "interactive" storyboard where you still had control over your 
 hero as the plotlines were recited ended in what I believe was disasterous. That mixed with the 
 "realistic" hearing system where you had to face someone to hear them made it all the more frustrating 
 as this didn't always work as it should. I believe they should have stuck to the way it was in 
 number one.
  
  Second, I found the combat system was good overall, except the usual "If only they's". My main 
 issue lyed with the strange new magic system, it was hard to understand how it worked and is still 
 even harder to use, when compared to the old magic power fighting system, it seems ridiculous.
 
  
  Third, what happened to the armor? I believe that sentence speaks for itself.
  
  Fourth, what seems to have happened to being able to get drunk as hell and still being thin? After 
 5 or 6 beers I was obese! And I had to wait days at a time for the cellery to restock at the produce 
 stalls, which brings me to my next point
  
  (fifth) why is there only one of everything at each vendor?
  
  Sixth, Where is the five star 
 weaponry? I'm not complaining that I can't find any five star weapons, but there are no clues as 
 to how to find them!
  
  And last of all, where are the compelling side quests that were good enough to feel like part of 
 the main story? I mean these new side quests didn't even feel like quests, they felt more like 
 weak chores, and there were very few hard choices that came with these 'side' quests.
  
  But, I must take the time to list the posotives. Starting with the impressive graphics, the enjoyably 
 humorous A. I. and product descriptions, and the new ability to purchase any home or bar or establishment 
 that you wished. there are other enjoyable aspects to the game, but I'm too tired to list them. 
 Deal with it. Thanks for reading, ta ta. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dliv666
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 27, 2008 11:51 pm PT
Review:  Let me first begin by saying that FABLE 2 is extremely well presented and the world of Albion itself 
 is just a 10/10 in terms of it graphics and character. This is the real star of the game, as well 
 as your trusty DOG (I called him Henry) . Additional to this the combat system is very robust and 
 there is opportunity for lots of variety in battle. Also the Banshee and Troll enemies within the 
 game are extremely well designed and fighting them is really one of the highlights.
  
  But underneath the very polished exterior is a very easy game, which unlike traditional RPG's feels 
 like its aimed at the entry level players. Also the game has 3 long term goals to achieve: Find 
 and shoot down 50 Gargoyles, collect 50 Silver Keys and open the 9 Demon Doors ............... here 
 is the reason why I am only giving Fable 2 7/10 ............. NONE OF THESE QUESTS ARE WORTH DOING! 
 The amount of work required to complete these is immense (compared to the challenge of the main 
 quest) and the reward for completing them, I can tell you (having completed them myself) is basically 
 worthless ....... especially as you cannot complete them until the main quest is already finished, 
 ensuring that the treasures, as superfluous as they are, cannot be used to assist you in completing 
 the main quest. In addition nothing awarded for either of the 3 tasks cannot be gained within the 
 ordinary game world through far easier and much less time consuming means. Here's a HINT: Find 
 the Cellar on Giles Farm to uncover the ENFORCER??? Trade weapons between Bowerstone OLD Town and 
 Fairfax Gardens. I strongly feel that this a major opportunity lost for Fable 2, as these challenges 
 should have in a very significant way pushed the story forward or uncovered a VERY MAJOR secret 
 ............ this would have made the game awesome .......... but this is not the case and instead, 
 completing these (what appears from within the game) major parts of the overall game, leaves you 
 feeling very unsatisfied and feeling like you shouldn't have bothered. When you take these elements 
 out of the game you are left with a very lovable but shallow RPG with little below the surface 
 in terms of depth.
  
  Another missing element is an onscreen small map to orientate yourself with. You can only access 
 a map by going into the options menu and this means that you are constantly removing yourself from 
 the game world. Making the experience far less immersive. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BattleBdy2
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 26, 2008 9:35 am PT
Review:  It was a decent game idea, unfortunately some of the advertised features just didn't pan out, ie 
 multi-player. I enjoyed the original very much and loved the addition of the lost chapter and when 
 I heard that they were going to be adding a multi-player aspect to the new game I was extatic. 
 Unfortunately the selection of cookie-cutter drones that could be played when you joined a friend's 
 game was a disappointment. I was hoping for a chance to show off my stuff and brag more with my 
 suped up character by destorying his city but instead get to play a mindless drone that can only 
 mimic. The story line was alright but kinda repetative a power hungry villan tries to kill you 
 and your entire life is spent on vengance. Overall, playable and for the single player aspect even 
 would tell my friends about it, but the bugs and multi-player earn it a lower score. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sparta316
Rating: 4.5
Date: Feb 20, 2009 2:10 pm PT
Review:  Ughhhh. I loved the first one, but they ruined it. When first heard that there was going to be 
 a second was I couldn't wait. I'm going to make a top ten list of the worst things in this game. 
 #10 The pub games were so complicated. I could figure them out but it would take a while, and besides 
 I don't want to spend a half hour trying to figure out a mini game. #9 It was way to easy to earn 
 achievements this is good for your gamerscore but it just tells you how much of a pushover game 
 it is. #8 Clothing people in the game are always judging you on your appearance. They did that 
 in the first one but not as much as the second one. It's like just leave me alone I want to play 
 the game. #7 You couldn't die. No I'm not kidding if you didn't have any resurrection phials you 
 just get a scar and loose some exp. orbs at first this seems cool, but unless you actually care 
 about your appearance on a video game it's just to easy. #6 The dog at first I was like a cool 
 he can find me treasure. Than it justs gets annoying. Some times he will run off and just sit there. 
 #5 No mini map I don't know why they didn't have one, but they did have the golden trail that was 
 cool the problem with that it disappeared a lot. #4 To short the first one was short too, but that 
 was the first game so that was the first time basically they just repeated that again. #3 The quests. 
 They were to repetitive, and another thing about the quests is most of them you can't get money 
 from. So you have to get jobs which mean more mini games that you have to waste your time with. 
 #2 The boss battles sucked. They were boring, repetitive, and a pain in the ass. Especially the 
 trolls you have to shoot some like bud things off of them. What happened to wacking the crap out 
 of them with your weapon. #1 This is the main reason that this game is so bad. The ending. It was 
 the worst ending that I ever saw. There isn't even a final boss battle you just kill him and you 
 get to one a wish. I felt like accomplished nothing all this trouble for that. When I saw the ending 
 I dropped the controller, and my jaw dropped open. I was pissed. so take my advice don't by this 
 game. Thanks for reading my review. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Slagg3r
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 25, 2008 7:27 pm PT
Review:  I bought this game a few days after it came out, hoping for it to live up to the hype that was 
 going around. When I got home I was pumped after reading through the booklet and seeing all the 
 things that you could do. It seemed really interesting on how you could change you "Fate" by being 
 Good or Evil and Corrupt or Pure
  I started playing, fiddling around with becoming evil, hoping that it would change the outcome 
 of the game and what the spells looked like, but I found that not the case. The only thing that 
 it actually does change is your appearance in the game, making your character ugly and hated, rising 
 up the prices on most of the items you can buy from the various shop. Annoyed with my findings, 
 I started another character, this time trying to be pure. I found this a hard task due to the fact 
 that if you pulled out your gun or close-range weapon, that the people that surrounded you got 
 scared, even if you were trying to just fight off bandits that had overrun the village. Being Good 
 and Pure is the best way to go, due to the lowered prices of weapons and various other items from 
 store. In the end the two "Paths" you can take are completely unbalanced, the better choice by 
 far is to be Good and Pure.
  After about 8 hours of playing the game, the screen suddenly froze. I waited a couple of minutes, 
 hoping that it was just a lag spike. After about two minutes, nothing had changed. When my Xbox 
 finally restarted, the game wasn't working and was stuck at a white screen when I tried to play 
 the game. Since it was still within the 30 day warranty, I returned the game for a new one. When 
 I started to play the new game, I was at a quest in Brightwood, when the game froze again. I started 
 the game up again, it still worked but when I tried again to go into Brightwood it froze up again. 
 In the end I returned the game for a full refund, with the feeling of the game being rushed and 
 glitchy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigfatpandajim
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 25, 2008 12:14 pm PT
Review:  Fable 2 seemed like the perfect game. An absorbing RPG were all your actions had an impact on the 
 world around you. The way Peter Molyneux described the game was exceptional. But many of the features 
 he talked about did not reach the final product. Maybe Fable 2 was over hyped. But the fact cannot 
 be ignored. The Game's Key hook; the moral choices, don't appear often enough and even when they 
 do you get the feeling they dont have a large enough impact. To top this off the story feels under 
 developed. The premise is good but the story telling just isnt deep enough. Plus the game just 
 doesnt have enough lasting appeal with a short story, dissapointing co-op and no real alternative 
 endings. 
  
  
  Its not all bad though, the productions values are really top notch. the graphics are crisp and 
 clear with lovely dynamic lighting. the voice acting is some of the best on xbox 360 with Stephen 
 Fry providing his voice. The Combat is simple but not lacking in depth with moves such as counters 
 and headshots.
  
  overall Fable 2 is a technically solid game. Its just a shame the key features that you expect 
 are not as excellent as they should be. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: go0db0y
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 24, 2008 5:58 pm PT
Review:  Ahh yeah Fable 2.
  
  When you first start the game, you start out as a kid. 
  This part is really really boring, but you'll soon get over it and become a man. ( or a Woman.) 
 
  
  My theory on every RPGs are that once you start the game, It's boring and confusing. But you'll 
 soon learn your way through slowly.
  
  Just like in Oblivion, there are beautiful music, it makes you feel........ how can I say it...... 
 good. 
  
  Many people said this game's graphic was bad, or it wasn't next gen., well I think the graphics 
 weren't that bad. I really didn't have problems with visuals.
  
  Everything about Fable was great, but there were some issues.
  
  
  I don't know how to say 
 this, but the magical yellow trail was a good Idea, but it made beginners to rely strictly on it. 
 What I mean is that it made players to cross out exploration. Like people who are new to the game 
 would just do things that the magical trail led them to. This made me , and probably other players 
 to feel confused and boring right away.
  
  
  And combat was a minor problem. I'm not saying that it was sucky. The combat was based on smashing 
 your X, Y, B buttons. And the animations for melee attack wasn't that impressive.
  
  
  Overall, this game is amazing. Just buy the game. I know some people who look at reviews for this 
 game, but still get confused...... just get this game. But remember not to just quit on this game 
 because first 1~2 hours of gameplay was boring.... Just keep playing, you'd know what I mean when 
 you get this game..
  
  
  Thanks for reading my review!
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: briancujo
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 24, 2008 6:34 am PT
Review:  Fable 2 is a great game it takes a role playing game to a place I never saw before. The world of 
 Albiob changes as you make decisions the game it's aw dropping. The fighting is simple but fun 
 and not repetitive. There are tons of items, weapons, spells, and surprises. There is an amazing 
 amount of character developing in this game what you decide will make you look different what you 
 eat changes your appearance, weather you do good or bad will change the game. There is one thing 
 that I must comment on you have a side kick in this game, this side kick is a dog. The dog which 
 you name will learn tricks find treasure and even help you fight your enemies it's truly man's 
 best friend. This game can be completed in around 30 hours but if you take it slow and do all the 
 quests then you can easily get 60+ hours out of this game. There is so many things this game does 
 that are new it's amazing' If you own a xbox 360 this is a must buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: greengir
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 24, 2008 12:22 am PT
Review:  Ok if you have played the first game you will pick up the game right away. For those that have 
 not played the game will learn fast I mean you walk and press 4 buttons most of the time but in 
 different ways when you fight. As a rpg it keeps you hooked for awhile with side things like quest's 
 jobs buying property ect. The look of the game is pretty when I mean pretty I mean fantasy pretty 
 like an RPG should look like. Between the first game and the second game I can't really tell you 
 which game is better I mean ive been told that the first game was better but then I heard the second 
 game was better. I just can't tell you. The online mode is alright I mean the whole co-op was a 
 great idea. If you run threw the game somewhat it takes about 1-2 days to beat the game but with 
 all the side stuff you can do you will be busy for awhile. All in all this game was great.
  
  :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darklord9193
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 23, 2008 10:01 pm PT
Review:  Clarification: Eagles syndrome is when your right there 6 inches away from touching down and winning 
 and you get tackled. Fable is this way because it was almost as good as it was supposed to be but 
 it fell short.
  
  ITS ALL LIES
  Why weren't there seasons there, so its nitpicking i wanted seasons and petey lied. I thought the 
 multiplayer might include chracter designed toons and it did not only the main player and i find 
 that wrong. We should be working to show off our creativity.
  
  The game was fun, i mean there was a wide variety of things to do like make money, kill random 
 baddie, kill villager baddies, kill quest baddies or have a wife. OK variety isn't that great but 
 it was still fun. The thing that makes it fun for me was the combat though, and i felt like my 
 weapon was unique and i liked that feel because it made me feel like well a real hero. Everyone 
 knows real heroes don's use generic weapons.
  
  The Graphics were pretty and the dog was cute looking i guess
  
  The characters in the game 
 were hard to connect to though. I found it really easy to kill my wife (both of them) and leave 
 my daughter (both of them) all alone on their own.
  
  The story was.. okay. It wasn't the blockbuster that Peter promised though and that really should 
 not be a surprise. It was nice but it was like everything i type, as in it goes off on tangents 
 every once in a while.
  
  Other then those few gripes the game was just fine and its worthy of buying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: atm0073
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 23, 2008 1:01 pm PT
Review:  The good: Better than its prequel; lots to do; great combat system; rewarding system of gameplay; 
 solid graphics; compelling storyline
  
  The bad: ... but the storyline's too short and linear; broken co-op system; not enough featuers; 
 could have been better.
  
  The verdict: a good game that's worth buying. One of the best games of the year; it's up there 
 in the top 20 or so. Something you'll have fun with, but that fun won't last very long... apart 
 from the main story being too short, the achievements are quite easy to acquire, which doesn't 
 help either. The co-op, as I mentioned earlier, is also very broken, so it's not something to think 
 very highly of. Overall, the game is unique and fresh even though it's been done before, and excels 
 in many areas that most other games fail to even reach.
  
  This wasn't meant to be a very informative review; just felt like commenting on how I felt about 
 the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joshgood518
Rating: 6
Date: Dec 23, 2008 9:03 am PT
Review:  everyone has been waiting on this game for forever. I know I have! Well i got it the other day 
 and the game is nothing but repetitive combat and pointless money-making. the combat system is 
 a little too easy; all you do is hit x a bunch of times until everyone is dead. Sure you can buy 
 will powers and different abilities but these have almost no affect on the enemies around you. 
 When you die in the game, (you don't ever die you just "pass out") , nothing happens!!!!!!!! you 
 lose the experience orbs that are on the ground that have not been picked up before but that is 
 it. you get right back up and your health meter completely refills. This also renders buying more 
 health bar useless. This game falls short of everyones expectations!!! The story is nothing special 
 and making money is way too easy and theres pretty much nothing to do with it but buy clothes that 
 don't even help you. they just make you look better. Stupid game that definitely falls short! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darth_vader787
Rating: 4.5
Date: Dec 23, 2008 8:46 am PT
Review:  Suprisingly I am a fable fan, I remember playing fable on the xbox when it came out, it was an 
 amazing game, but then once Jack of blades died I had little else to do, and hoping to get more 
 out of the game, I shelled out even more money for the lost chapters, but still the game was good 
 to a point.
  
  So when I first saw Fable 2 on the internet I was unsure on buying it but still I continued to 
 look at the previews, follow the internet countdown and was one of the many people rushing into 
 the stores trying to find a copy of the 'legendary' sequel that lionhead was claiming to be so 
 amazing.
  
  So was it worth the wait? Or the 40 I shelled out to but that copy? One word, no! 
  
  Fable 
 2 was a decent game with some factors, firstly the whole combat sequences were simple to understand 
 and it still contained the humour that the first Fable had, and with amazing voice talent like 
 Zoe Wanamaker and Steven Fry, it sounds like the game is what the hype suggests.
  
  But sadly that's where it stops, but where to begin with it's faults? Well first of all the developers 
 seem to overlook their designs again, yeah they took away the hero save options to stop people 
 duplicating gold and silver keys from constantly redoing quests like the arena over and over again 
 but now they added the xbox's clock to the gameplay.
  
  Basically if you buy and rent houses you make money every five minuites in real time, so all you 
 need to do is simpy alter your game's clock to a year to gain a year's worth of gold, and if repeated 
 you can easily but every house in Albion, also you have the two player co-op mode, if you add a 
 second player with no a gamer account and delete all the second player's skills, all the exp is 
 transferred to player one once you sign player two out, easily allowing you to max out all your 
 stats before even leaving the cave of heros.
  
  Next we need to go back to to co-op mode, first of all the player can now visit other players on 
 fable 2 on xbox live to help them out on quests, or for a killing spree on a village, but you can 
 only play as a henchman, meaning you never get to play as your character.
  
  Another thing is the clothing, maybe not a big factor but consider this, in fable 1 you had clothing 
 and armor for each type of character's choice e. g a big melee character had armor, a spell user 
 had robes e. t. c. but now the clothing is restricted to appearance and attractiveness, and as I 
 like playing as a sort of swordfighter-like character I didn't think that any of the armor suited 
 my character, also another thing was the dog, yeah I appreciate having the dog finding me treasure 
 chests to dig up but eventually I got sick of him, and I did'nt like the idea of losing the mini 
 map, especially if the character decides to not save the dog in end you're basically lost afterwards.
 
  
  And finally the last dregs of why Fable 2 is another disappointing promise from lionhead, when 
 you fight through all the hordes of underlings of the evil lord Luicien and with the constant talk 
 of reviving an old kingdom artefact (I kept hoping it was the sword of aeons) I was ready for the 
 boss fight.
  
  So here's the walkthrough of the amazing final battle, well? Wait till Lord Lucien stops talking, 
 hold Left trigger to use the 'amazing music box' and once all the power goes, either shoot him 
 once, or slice him and he dies, yeah, sorry to disappiont but there is no boss battle, it made 
 me feel dry at the mouth to say the least and what good points fable 1 had, Lionhead decided to 
 yank them out and urinate all over them, maybe lionhead should spend less time on including the 
 useless safe sex or non-safe sex option and actually make the amazing boss fights that made me 
 bash the x and y buttons constantly.
  
  Now completly bashing the game is unfair, I did enjoy some modes of play, simplifying the combat 
 element was a good move and the storyline was good, the didn't fail on voice acting either, but 
 this in reality wasn't worth the 40 I wasted on a false promise of a game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pezza02
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 23, 2008 3:52 am PT
Review:  This was one of the first RPG games i had ever played and i really enjoyed it for the time i played 
 it. but then i went onto co-op and you cant control the camera angle so it makes it almost impossible 
 to play co-op. also you cant keep your character when you go onto someone elses game which is annoyong 
 as its really cool to make your character look good and then go onto someone elses game and find 
 your a default character its annoying. now onto the good. fable 2 has smooth gameplay which is 
 important. i also like how you can do so many things like go and buy stuff from one shop then go 
 to another and sell for a profit and rob houses and shops. in the end i would have to say its a 
 great game and i reccomend buying it. i also reccomend buying OBLIVION as thats also a great game.
 
  
  
  thanks for reading i hope it helped 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darkness7089
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 27, 2008 6:21 am PT
Review:  First of all, I bought Fable 1 off the market place and put in a good 35 or so hours before getting 
 this sequel. It's age really stands out, but I wasn't bothered much by beating it twice, once as 
 good and once as evil.
  
  Fable 2 is a step up in the right direction from Fable 1, in every way possible. Fable 1 lacked 
 interesting characters, which is what I had a real problem with. Fable 2 has put a name on any 
 character, which helps to bring more life to such a world. It also has some unique characters for 
 its story, and more choices for you to perform. Fable 1 also had far too many loading bars and 
 extremely small zones. Fable 2's load times are faster, and not quite as frequent due to the fact 
 that you can train anywhere and don't need to run to a home to receive rent from it. Those changes 
 alone save a great deal of wasted travel/load time that I'd /hug for being in the game.
  
  The expression system got a nice update, but doesn't really do much for the player. You still don't 
 have any interesting dialogue options that you would rather have instead of repeated expressions, 
 so as previously stated; it feels like you are manipulating a system rather than having any meaningful 
 interactions. But the game also goes a long way towards making your actions having impact on the 
 world around you. You can scare shopowners, which will cause their items to drop in price, or get 
 the same reward from being a loved hero. 
  
  The economy in the game takes some getting used to, and some grinding if you aren't patient. If 
 you buy any random property, you can make gold off of it by waiting or reselling it. If you want 
 gold faster, you can either quest and explore the world, or work a boring job that does the same 
 task over and over. They bring in good gold after a while, but you'd really have to be patient 
 to want to do that. I've heard that its too easy to make gold in the game, but I don't have a problem 
 with it. For the first half of the game you will be dirt poor unless you camp offline to rack up 
 rent, or grind a job for hours. That feels normal to me, the poorer I am, the better it'll feel 
 when I get something epic. Gear is different in this sequel, clothing no longer grants armor. This 
 allows you to equip whatever style and outfit you wish, where as in the first one, you had to wear 
 either 1 of 2 plate sets, or 1 of 3 caster sets. There was NOTHING else. You can also dye armor 
 sets to change their color. (As an irl Goth, I dyed all my stuff Black, and was surprised to get 
 an Achievement titled "Goth". Show me some love.) .
  
  People will chant and praise you, or fear you as you'd expect them too. It will either annoy you 
 to no end, or you'll enjoy it. Personally, it took a while for pillaging towns to get boring. I 
 knocked down doors, looted homes, killed people, including the guards that tried to stop me. Unfortunately, 
 it's much easier to be evil in the game than it is to be good. You can kill any random person for 
 evil points, you can't do the same for good points, and once you run out of good things to do, 
 there's no way to get more; aside from donating money. I haven't completed the game twice yet, 
 but I didn't want to wait any longer before typing this out.
  
  The story in Fable 2 is a decent one, sparked by tragedy and mystery more than anything else. Although 
 you spend most of your time fooling around in the world for your own benefits or pleasure, the 
 story will keep you interested in the main quest. But I don't need to tell you about the story, 
 that information in everywhere anyway.
  
  Fable 2 is designed much better than its original when it comes to combat as well. One thing I 
 found annoying was accidently hitting friendly NPCs when I didn't want to. Now you don't have to 
 worry, since a safety mode prevents you from doing so. Also, spells no longer use Mana, which means 
 you don't have to buy 50+ Mana Pots before going out into the world, and eating one every 30 seconds. (Trust 
 me, I tried a caster in Fable 1, It's very bad) . You also gain Strength or Skill abilities from 
 those talents, which make them far less repetitive than the original, where you could roll or Flourish 
 from the start. (Meaning the Talents did nothing interesting other than passives stats.) Spells 
 have a cast time, longer for each rank, but really pay off to cast. How do you stand still to cast? 
 Force push, Time Stop, and distracting pets help.
  
  Although spellcasting has had great improvements, there still isn't much of a spell selection to 
 choose from. Half of the spells are completely pointless, as Shock is the only Nuke+Aoe you even 
 need. The only other worthwhile spells to get is Time Stop, force push, or Raise Dead. Chaos and 
 Inferno was so worthless I refunded them.
  
  The world of Fable 2 requires some patience, its confusing and takes some getting used to. Don't 
 expect much of a map, since it won't allow you to zoom in and doesn't color the shops or areas 
 like you'd expect. Hell, it won't even mark the Demon Doors for you. You have to have a good memory. 
 Alternatively, you could run around lost for hours like I did. With plenty of treasure to be found, 
 and a glowing trail and port system to get me around, I didn't have a problem exploring. Anytime 
 I ran off lost I found gold or items, so it doesn't waste your time that badly.
  
  So how does your character change? Well, choosing a man or woman has next to no impact on the game, 
 except for hearing a "him" or "her". You'll find that there are plenty of gay men or lesbian NPCs 
 happy to feel any specific preferences you may have. But its interesting watching your character 
 change, with scars or glowing magical runes.
  
  The dog? Gah, I didn't like the dog that much. It never helped me in combat no matter how much 
 I tried. If it did, I didn't notice its damage. I basically only ever used it to find treasure, 
 that's basically its purpose. It's suppose to change "With" your hero, but other than red eyes 
 with my evil hero and some ignorable growling, I didn't notice anything. (You thankful I knew how 
 to talk about more than just the dog unlike that terrible video reviewer?)
  
  Unfortunately Fable 2 won't challenge you that much. As a bad hero I could easily pillage a town 
 and kill half a million guards before I died (Only to instant revive with full health and do it 
 again) . So the game feels more like one elaborate simulation or sandbox than anything else. It 
 has a few tricky big enemies, but you'll face them again and again, making them "just another exp 
 pot" once you get used to them. Expect a decent storybook ending, but not a challenge from it.
 
  
  I didn't want to type about the CO OP because of how bad it is, but its in the game. Sadly its 
 the worst part of the game. The second player can't use his or her own model. They have to choose 
 a preset one, which kind of defeats the point. You basically WANT to show off how terrible or cool 
 your character look, but can't! You can share exp and gold, which is good, but its frustrating 
 trying to get around because of the bogged camera. Why didn't they just have it follow player 1, 
 and port player 2 to player 1 when 2 falls off? Or let 2 run off if they want to, so long as they 
 are in the same zone, and let them use the port if they want to? It's madness, a joke, and probably 
 the only reason the game wouldn't be a 10/10.
  
  The question is why the game got a 8.5 by Gamespot, there are many MANY worse games that are 9+. 
 Fable 2 is a must for any RPG fan that likes to choose between good or evil choices, and likes 
 having a customizable character in a reactive world. Is hands down one of the best games on the 
 360.
  
  Single player:
  (Experience) A (Good)
  Presentation:
  (Video/Audio) Star (Perfect)
  Performance: B (Acceptable)
  Multiplayer: F (Fail) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: altiair
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 22, 2008 7:52 pm PT
Review:  the Game known as fable2 is a fine exciting fantasy game that should be played by every body that 
 is eligible. Fable2 was a fun game that went on forever with various armors and quests. I think 
 a person that likes dark alliance champions of norrath, oblivion, dungeons and dragons, or even fable 
 1, should play this game it is facinating. the online gameplay is pretty cheesy though, cause only 
 one of the people can play as their character. The gameplay is much like fable one only you are 
 able to expierience better battle gameplay.
  You are also able to change your clothes color by using dye. There are various different colors 
 of dyes. The demon doors are similar to the fable 1.
  They all desire something , so that you would e able to enter the premises. They contain a secret 
 treasure every demon door. Thats pretty cool. Well I hope you enjoyed my boring review. Nobodies 
 ever going to read it anyway well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fishweredogs
Rating: 1
Date: Dec 22, 2008 5:29 pm PT
Review:  Okay, we all know that the first Fable was complete gold. Fable 2 takes away some of the fable 
 atmosphere and adds some of Oblivion's boring ways. The game can still be finished in no time. 
 I was on a busy schedule when i was playing the story and i still beat it in just 1-2. Making money 
 is just easy as hell. The feature of having a child is a little shallow. USING MAGIC SPELLS IS 
 JUST COMPLETELY HARD AND WEIRD. They really should have kept the same controls. I don't know what 
 happened but it really doesn't have the goodness of what the first fable gave us. The combat system 
 is pretty fun, but you can never die in the game, yes people they completely made the game even 
 much more easier and the feature to just conquer death in the game. The older oblivion map seemed 
 better. Most of the magic spells were basically the same, quests weren't as fun as the first fable. 
 Sorry if i said some things that you don't like, but i just saw the game boring which really disappointed 
 me because i loved fable.
  A quick example: The arena in the 1st Fable was allot more delightful then second Fable's.
  
 
  Game Play: Boring
  Graphics: Nice
  Audio: Superb
  Difficulty: Easy (Enemies still easy to kill)
  
  Controls: Ugly 
  
  2 player mode, is just 
 garbage. They should have used the online mode in ways of vs not coop. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mattpunkgd
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 22, 2008 11:40 am PT
Review:  If you played and loved fable 1 then you will love fable 2. It has everything the first had and 
 more. Although it was a great game it was kind of a let down, I expected way more, there is a lot 
 of improvements, but it had way more potential. The combat system isn't the best, but then again 
 this is a rpg. There is a great selection of weapons. Overall you should get this awesome game. 
 Hopefully there will be expansions and a nice port to pc. Lionhead tried really hard, yet I believe 
 they could have done better. GET THIS GAME  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PdPstyle
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 22, 2008 10:25 am PT
Review:  Firstly I would like to say this game is a great addition to the Fable series and does mostly what 
 Fable 1 was supposed to do. It is a light game that is fun and entertaining. Though It is for sure 
 an M game it brings out the little kid in everyone I have seen play it.
  
  The visuals on this game are pretty, very pretty. There are some parts where I stopped and had 
 to just admire the landscape and lighting work. characters are cleanly made and animations are 
 smooth. That said there are times when the frame rate drops, but usually only in the most intense 
 fighting. There are some other graphical glitches but in my experiance they have been few and far 
 between.
  
  The sound and voice acting are great in this game, though when preforming a job be prepared to 
 hear the same 15 or so lines of dialog ALOT. The people in the game are quite funny talking about 
 the most bizzare and ironic things possible. Its great to just sit and listen to peoples conversations 
 once and a while...
  
  Combat in this game is really simple, I always worry about "simple" combat, but as it turns out 
 it works really well here. Everything is quick and easy to use. Everything is effective and even 
 the way skills are unlocked is easy to use
  
  Overall this is a really fun and easy game, but it could be really really short. A friend of mind 
 beat it in around 10/15 hours. I'm guessing he just blasted through the main story and did nothing 
 else though as I have clocked in 15 or 20 hours to date and not halfway though the game. This game 
 will provide as much entertainment if you *the user* are willing to put time and effort into it. 
 If you do side missions, get married, buy up property and participate in the numerous mini games 
 like getting a job and gambling, you will deffinatly get way more out of this game than simply 
 running though the main story.
  
  Also dont expect a challenge with this game, I have yet to die, but thats may not be a bad thing 
 considering I'm a Hero and all...
  
  Lastly this game is great fun, it has good graphics and superb if a little repetitive voice acting, 
 fighting and story are wonderful. This is a really good game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrFurious78
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 21, 2008 9:35 pm PT
Review:  The first installment in the Fable series was an amazing game at the time. It was one of the first 
 to introduce consequences for your actions, and the choice to either steer your character down 
 the path of good or evil. This concept has subsequently been copied several times over by games 
 since then. In addition the immersive and detailed world created by Peter Molyneux and his team 
 at Lionshead Studios was both original and distinct in tone and feel. 
  That being said, Fable I was not by any means a perfect game, and unfortunately many of its faults 
 were not improved upon in Fable II. One of the primary complaints regarding the first installment 
 was that it was too short. There was a substantially small amount of quests and missions to complete 
 before the game was over. This left a feeling of disappointment that the rich fantasy world created 
 had not been fully taken advantage of. Surprisingly, Fable II makes the same mistake. There is 
 an attempt to make-up for this by adding a large number of side quests, including some that can 
 be completed after the main story has finished, but these can best be described as mildly entertaining 
 and repetitive. The main quest, however, will be over before you know it. The Second complaint 
 with Fable I was that there was not enough variety in the enemies that you faced. A few new ones 
 have been added in this installment, but if you consider that most of the creatures from Fable 
 I make another appearance as well, this was not a very significant improvement. A third complaint 
 I had with the original installment was the lack of difficulty. Once the technique was mastered, 
 it became pretty easy to plow through any enemy you faced, or you could just as easily avoid these 
 encounters by merely side-stepping your opponent and walking away with little or no consequence. 
 This made upgrades to both skill and weaponry seem trivial and unnecessary, which is a shame, because 
 this aspect is a cornerstone to any good RPG adventure. Fable II again drops the ball in this area. 
 I would say that this one is even easier than the first. One of the best weapons in the game is 
 made available for you to purchase pretty early on, making your motivation to upgrade obsolete.
 
  Although Fable II is not without it's faults (many of which were the faults of it's predecessor) , 
 it is still an enjoyable game to play, and I did spend quite a bit of time playing it. There are 
 many good qualities to this game as well. The first is customization of your character. The many 
 outfits, tattoos and haircut options are nice, and combined with the ability to dye almost anything 
 you'd like from hair to clothing using dyes purchased from merchants or found on your quests is 
 a nice feature. Although a little more variety in the clothing department would have been nice. 
 Also, not only can you get married in Fable II, but you can have children and give them names, 
 this, combined with the fact that you can buy real estate, helps to add to the immersiveness of 
 the entire experience. It's a pretty cool feeling when you are able to afford one of the mansions 
 in the game, and you bring your family to move in. Another great improvement to this sequel is 
 the addition of your canine companion. Your dog can be very helpful in finding buried treasure 
 as well as aiding you in a fight, and you certainly do miss him during the brief periods that he 
 is not by your side. The final welcome improvement for me was the addition of firearms. Fable II 
 doesn't take place in the traditional fantasy genre setting, but more in between the medieval and 
 modern age, which is a refreshing perspective. The guns are fun to use, but yet again there is 
 not much variety and it can make combat a little too easy. 
  So in conclusion, the improvements made to Fable II are certainly enjoyable, but they are not enough 
 to make-up for the fact that the major faults from Fable I were not addressed or improved upon 
 in any significant way. This is disappointing for someone like me who was hoping for so much more 
 with this title. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Recon807
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 28, 2009 6:05 am PT
Review:  Fable II for the Xbox 360 reviewed by Matt.
  
  PRESENTATION:
  
  Audio: 7.5/10
  +No problems so far.
  -Nothing noticeably great.
  
  Music: 7.5/10
  +Nothing bad.
  -Nothing 
 great.
  
  Visual: 9/10
  +Perfect lighting, especially the beautiful glow effect on everything.
  -Detail falls apart upon 
 close inspection.
  
  GAMEPLAY:
  
  Gameplay: 9/10
  +Combat is amazing; you can flawlessly switch from magic, to melee, to ranged.
  +The world is 
 big enough to explore for quite some time.
  +You'll become very attached to your dog companion and your family if you marry.
  +Many houses 
 and businesses can be bought, allowing you to earn rent and income, even when you're not playing.
 
  -Once the main quest is completed and the small number of side missions are finished, there is 
 little motivation to continue.
  
  Multiplayer: 7/10
  +Co-op in a game like this is a welcomed rarity.
  -The second player can't use their actual character.
 
  -Camera angles can get frustrating.
  
  Story: 7.5/10
  +Main quest is captivating, and you'll want to finish it.
  +Side quests are generally well designed.
 
  -Lacks the distinction that RPG's such as Oblivion, Fallout, and Mass Effect have.
  
  Overall: 8.5/10
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jediknight52501
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 21, 2008 5:42 am PT
Review:  Fable II is a great game but it also suffers a few bugs that can hinder a game like this. the combat 
 is nice as the weapons are nice yo use and the guns are a great addition to the game. aiming with 
 the guns is nice as you can learn to aim as you progress through the game. the story line is very 
 well done and has some interesting plot twists and is very well done. graphics are nice and well 
 done, the cities can be big and the outside world is big. the decisions you make as a hero can 
 decide if you good or evil, pure or corrupt. you can kill people, but they won't like you. you 
 can help people and they will love you for it. what is nice is that in Fable II you can start a 
 family or be a person who wants to be a party animal, the choice is yours. co-op play is a nice 
 addition but is also flawed ins some ways. you can't use your hero when you join a friend in the 
 game and you have a preset list to use that makes me wish Lion Head Studios would redo this in 
 the next game. also the camera in co-op is not that at all as it tends to stay in one place causing 
 you not to see all your enemies and causing glitches that hurt the game. the story is a little 
 short and the Achievements can be easy in the game. finding the extras like the Gargoyles, Silver 
 Keys and rare weapons is a nice addition and adds to the over all experience. Fable !! is a great 
 game, but with the issues it has, it could have been even better, controls have been an issue as 
 well and should be fixed with a patch that has not come out and it seems that the annouced DLC 
 has also been delayed. Fable II is a great game that deserves your attention, but not GOTY. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tehfireballer
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 20, 2008 5:41 pm PT
Review:  This is one of the best games i have ever played. One of my favorite features were the ranged weapons. 
 I loved how they were organized so pistols were low damage and fast, rifles were HUGE damage and 
 slow, and crossbows were in the middle. I also loved the story this time around. I really felt 
 everything that happened around me. Like in the beginning with lucien, i really wanted to kill 
 him. Also, i never felt unimportant or weak. Also, the ending was extremely rewarding and made 
 me feel all-powerful.
  The achievements were also wonderful. Having an achievement for getting married, having kids, getting 
 married again, reaching 5 star on a job, and the black knight all help extend the game and make 
 sure you aren't doing the same things over and over again. Also, these achievements make you feel 
 more inclined to visit the content you don't have to (marriage, kids, cheating, playing the game 
 after you beat it for extra renown) . 
  So overall I would say that this is an amazing game, and I would highly recommend it to any fantasy 
 game fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ghutch55
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 20, 2008 1:51 am PT
Review:  Our moron of a president once said, "there's an old sayin' in Texas, fool me once shame on you 
 fool me twice shame on umm... well you aint gon' fool me again." Why didn't I listen to him? When 
 the first Fable came out it was promised to be the most comprehensive RPG to date, with customizable 
 characters, complex moral choices to be made, in depth interactions with NPC's and a great story, 
 but it really didn't deliver on any of those fronts. One nice thing though was that creator Peter 
 Molyneaux did apologize about the failure. ( So many other games that were supposed to be great 
 have been dudes and I never got an apology) 
  Anyway enough about Fable whats in the past is in the past now we should look to the future or 
 the present since Fable 2 is out now. Fable 2 was supposed live up to all the hype off its predecessor 
 and really be the greatest RPG ever but once again we have been fooled. There are huge shortcomings 
 in just about every part of the game. Character customization is lacking to say the least. You 
 can change you characters hair, clothes, and give him/her tattoos. Honestly that is pretty weak 
 you cant even change your characters race or name in fact you are just assigned the name Sparrow 
 so I hope you like birds. Also the clothing customization leaves much to be desired, you can mix 
 and match the various shirts, shoes, and pants that are available but it still doesn't have that 
 "My hero is really my own" feel to it. Why not give the player the ability to customize every part 
 of the character's clothing/armor? (like rainbow six Vegas but better)
  The interactions with the NPC's plays like a watered down version of the Sims, you can meet a guy 
 or a gal marry them, move into a house, get a job and start a family. Since your character can't 
 speak all the conversations are pretty one sided you can use expressions to get your point across 
 though. You can also buy stores and businesses and make money off of them. The NPC interaction 
 is solid but just isn't great. The addition of long-ranged weapons is a great idea but the combat 
 system is a little too simple. Melee, ranged, and magic attacks are each assigned to one of the 
 four face buttons with the fourth being used for a dive roll that can be used to avoid attacks. 
 The combat is fun but the simplicity makes get repetitive.
  The story is pretty simple, you are one of the four legendary heroes or something and you have 
 to find the other 3 to stop some DB from gaining the power to destroy the world. The story develops 
 through the completion of quests that are pretty fun and along the way you get to make some of 
 those moral decisions that were promised. 
  Fable 2 isn't a bad game by any means, there are plenty of great features. The pet dog that sticks 
 with you through out the game is great fun, in fact one of the most enjoyable parts of the game 
 is playing with it and having it run beside you as sprint along paths (I'm a dog lover) . Also the 
 coop mode; which has its issues, is over all fun, who doesn't like being able to sit down with 
 a friend and slice and shoot through a good adventure? All in all Fable 2 is a fun and simple adventure 
 game that is a welcome change from all of the FPS's that are out this season. Although if you are 
 looking for that mind blowing, life altering, earth shattering game that was promised maybe you 
 should wait for Fable 3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarkElf2112
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 19, 2008 6:50 pm PT
Review:  Fable 2 is the sequel to the original XBox role playing game from Lionhead studios. It is the brain 
 child of Lionhead creative director/designer Peter Molyneaux who's reputation is considered anywhere 
 from genius to con man. Molyneaux's games to me have been good but not great, ambitious but short 
 of the mark. I have believed Molyneaux could sell ice to an Eskimo but never deliver on his own 
 hype when it was time to boot up his game. This is the main reason why I waited a few months before 
 picking up Fable 2. I was in no hurry to be disappointed. Fortunately, I was far from disappointed.
 
  
  Graphics: The game is beautiful. There are some load screen hiccups and it helps to install it 
 to your hard drive but the landscapes look great and all building interiors are accessible. The 
 "ye olde days of yore" style connects spot on in a way I thought was tacky in Fable 1. This game 
 looks as good as any game to date on the 360.
  
  Audio: I have to make a point about the voice acting. It's really is top notch. The actors are 
 actually funny when trying to be funny and execute other emotional material with equal skill.
 
  
  Gameplay: I was extremely skeptical of the one button attack methods for melee, magic, and ranged 
 weapons. It turned out to be rather pleasant. Fable 2 is not really about combat. Fighting is never 
 a challenge and you will seldom be defeated. And when you are you are merely knocked unconcious 
 for a few seconds before returning to the fight. The combat system is about feeling powerful and 
 moving through the story. You are supposed to be in awe of yourself not constantly beating your 
 head against the wall trying to defeat a boss.
  Interaction with other characters is pretty much handled by script already determined by the game. 
 You make decisions rather than interact. Including getting married, having children and acquiring 
 property. It is basically hand-holding but I think Mass Effect's conversation system has left all 
 other RPGs in the dust and spoiled us, so I don't hold this against Fable 2.
  Following the tale and discovering amazing new treasures and places is extremely rewarding. The 
 assorted zany folks running around Albion are also very entertaining to come across. And of course, 
 your dog is a delight! 
  The biggest problem with Fable 2 is how short it is. Coming out approximately the same time as 
 the mighty Fallout 3 didn't help. You can pretty much do everything there is to do in Fable 2, 
 good and evil, in 30-40 hours (in Fallout 3 you're just getting started after 30 hours) . This doesn't 
 ruin the experience but more of Albion would have been nice.
  Co-op is encouraged and works fairly well but again, you can't bring your actual character into 
 your friends world or vice-versa. Not the end of the world but it would have been nice...
  
  In conclusion, Fable 2 was a pleasure to play. In fairness, I didn't expect much so I was blown 
 away by how well the game had come out. Fable 2 is probably not so much a sequel as it is what 
 Peter Molyneaux had intended in the first place for Fable. In that case, well done Mr. Molyneaux. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 67gt500
Rating: 5.5
Date: Dec 18, 2008 10:17 pm PT
Review:  A little more development time and some pre-release play-testing and Fable 2 could have been a 
 great game and a worthy sequel. As it stands, however, you're going to have to be prepared to be 
 patient with Fable 2 and understand that your investment in it, of both your money and your time, 
 can be undermined by a bevy of game-breaking glitches.
  
  A patch is forthcoming says developer Lionhead Studios, but two months after release, user-reported 
 technical issues that they were made apprised of on Day-One, are still unresolved. This is unacceptable 
 for a high-profile title like Fable 2, and Molyneux, Lionhead, and Microsoft Game Studios should 
 be jointly, and profoundly, ashamed of themselves.
  
  If you are fortunate enough to reach the end of your adventure without requiring a complete re-start 
 along the way, Fable 2 does offer enough fun and emotional engagement to make the over-all experience 
 worthwile.
  
  In good conscience, I can only recommend a play-through if you enjoyed the first Fable on xbox... 
 
  
  Just be very careful how you play Fable 2 - you just might break it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tragia
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 18, 2008 9:58 pm PT
Review:  As we are all X-Box players here, I'm sure that I'm not the only person who has run into these 
 same issues.
  
  Ok, So while I will say that this game has far surpassed most of the games I've played as of late. 
 I can honestly say that I think I have found it's one major flaw.
  
  I think back to the first time I played Oblivion. I had been playing about 2 months and had racked 
 up well over 100 hours. I shut my system down one day and BAM!!!  the save corrupted. I lost 100+ 
 hrs. That was, to say the very least, extremely annoying. As My gaming has progressed within the 
 X-Box world, I've found that the option to save in multiple places has kept me from comiing unglued 
 at the ends on some days. So, I think I can say from a serious point that while I absoulutly love 
 the replay value I'll get out of Fable 2, I think that the only think keeping this game from a 
 9 or above, for me, is the lack of possibilities for backups. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Silent_King
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 18, 2008 9:49 pm PT
Review:  Fable 2, an ambitious game, a game that delivered most of it's creator's promises. There is some 
 error, like some parts of the story are left... unfulfilled. Although being this new hero, who 
 lost his parents and later loses his sister, then goes to avenge his sister (Wait doe's this sound 
 familiar?) I wish that they could have added a little more depth with the story. Truefully Fable 
 2 has earned a place in Video Gaming: Hall Of Fame. Not that it's the best, but it is one of the 
 best yet. I have hopes that if they make a sequel, that they won't kill everyone that the main 
 loves.. Ha ha. Also the dog is probably the best thing they could have had in the game. My only 
 problem with the dog was how it seemed to have trouble telling where it was going when it was trying 
 to locate dig spots... Well good day, play some Fable 2. DON't EAT PIES! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SilenceWolf1338
Rating: 1
Date: Dec 18, 2008 9:05 pm PT
Review:  The only reason why I own this game is because some of my friends could not stop talking about 
 it. So, I figure I check it out and as always the rental store were all out and I had the extras 
 cash to buy it. After playing it and beat it I just laugh. I just did not find anything in this 
 game that I like. Too me it was one of the worst game I played.
  
  First off the storyline was way too short and not much story into it. (I only played the male version) 
 Your sister get kill then you grow up and you seek revenge, which during that time you need to 
 find three other hero to help you defeat him. Which really at the end you don't really fight him 
 at all.
  
  Three other hero is not that interesting at all. The First one you meet is the hero of strength 
 which she is very annoying. Though out the game all she do is whine or talk way to much. The second 
 guy is the hero of magic (will) , he a alright guy but you don't really get to know him much. The 
 third is hero of skill which he just a complete snob, plus you meet him almost at the end of the 
 game. All three hero is pretty useless as much as dog when it come to fighting.
  
  The time setting of this game is way to old for my style. If was the castle age then it would be 
 alright. Everything in here like people, houses, weapon, and cloths are just plain ugly. There 
 was maybe one set of cloths I like but the rest was limited, same with the hair. Getting married 
 and sex was pointless because all the women looks the same, fat or white trash beggar.
  
  I don't mind that my person was mute but doing stupid action to get people attention. I look retarded 
 and the town people act like they feel sorry for me or talking to me like I'm a child.
  
  The fighting got old and fast. Most of the time it just got repeated and way too long. You can't 
 die and there no real boss.
  
  Becoming good or evil is nothing special. I went to all the way to evil and all it did was made 
 my body gray. Becoming good I had a hard time because some of the mission was a evil deed which 
 I did not know till the end.
  
  I thought this game was just plain bad and need a lot of work. I would get it a 0.0 rating but 
 it only goes down to 1.0 then the 1.0 goes to the dog. The dog maybe useless but it seem smarter 
 then the people that made this game.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: devak108
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 18, 2008 6:51 am PT
Review:  The experience of Fable 2 is one of wonder and joy. Right from the start the original world of 
 Albion sucks you in with the large assortment of things to do, people to see and places to go. 
 I enjoyed the original Fable for xbox, but I find Fable 2 to be a superior game in almost every 
 way. 
  For starters the combat is awesome. It easy and smooth to switch between magic, ranged weapons, 
 and melee weapons. There are some cool animations for the flourish attacks and magic attacks. My 
 only complaint about combat is that there could have been more variety in the types of enemies 
 you fight, to make each battle seem more unique. Several of the boss fights are simply a more powerful 
 versions of enemies you've been fighting already. 
  The only other complaint I have about the game is one that almost every review I've read has brought 
 up. The story is light and cliche. I didn't feel very emotionally involved in what was going on. 
 The reason I kept coming back to Albion wasn't to find out what the next twist of the story would 
 be. The reason I kept playing was to do all the million other things you could do.
  Besides these minor drawbacks I found Fable 2 to be an incredible adventure with a high replay 
 value, that anyone who is an action rpg fan needs to try. 
  
  Graphics: 9
  
  Gameplay: 9.5
  
  Story: 7.5
  
  Replay Value: 9.5
  
  Fun: 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: reo-117
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 17, 2008 5:13 pm PT
Review:  There is a great amount of unique RPGs out for the 360 like Mass Effect, Oblivion and Fallout 3 
 and now Fable 2.
  
  Fable 2 is an action RPG which you can do almost anything like have a family, own Real Estate, 
 act like an idiot. Which is really cool that peoples opinion of you changes after what actions 
 you do and not only that your hero can change his look if he/she is good or evil but it does come 
 with down sides. Its just the fact that none of them are super deep since you can only interact 
 with other people by using expressions like farting or giving a thumbs up not by dialogue choices 
 like in Mass Effect also none of the actions you do change the story like other RPGs it just affects 
 your world sure there some moral choices that change the story but there not to many of them. The 
 way your hero changes is pretty cool like if you are famous and you only do good deeds people will 
 follow you ask for your autograph and compliment you and you get a halo on your head. I never been 
 evil in the game yet but I think they'll curse you and run away from you and I only know that you'll 
 get horns. There is more to it like if you die you'll get scar and as the years go by you will 
 turn old.
  
  
  Now to the main story you start of as a poor orphan and someone kills your sister and your out 
 for revenge. Its really not that crazy or anything and it may be used a million times but i liked 
 it a little and some characters i thought were cool but its not a deal maker for the game. Technically 
 its not that great but artistically this game looks great with a beautiful world which I actually 
 was amazed at but load times when going to places can be annoying. The combat system in Fable 2 
 is rewarding and easy for any gamer to get into without making it feel shallow which is pretty 
 cool. Each type of fighting style is assigned like all melee attacks is used with x while skill 
 is with y and magic is with b so its easy to pull of stylish attacks. The leveling up system is 
 pretty cool too since when you collect exp orbs you can spend them on melee, skill or magic. You 
 can be all magic or melee if you want but each time you spend your exp on a certain attack type 
 it will cost more to go to the next level of that type so you'll most likely spend on other things 
 so then you can be a pro on all those types. A new addition to the game is a dog at first I thought 
 that it was just like a metal detector he just finds treasure for you but then as you teach your 
 dog more and more things he feels like he real so the dog is a love/hate situation. There are cons 
 to the main story that the games is easy there is basically no penalty to death only that you lose 
 a few exp orbs and you get a scar and your back to full health. There is also not really any bosses 
 (just strong enemies) and its not too long. (10-12 hours)
  
  
  So in the end Fable 2 is unique and it's a very fun adventure. it's at least worth checking out.
 
  
  
  
  Graphics 8/10
  
  technically bad artistically amazing
  
  Sound 9/10
  
  the voice acting and music is great
  
  Controls 10/10
  
  everything works great
  
  
 Gameplay 9/10 
  
  it is very satisfying and rewarding
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: yumex85
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 17, 2008 4:09 am PT
Review:  Fable II is a pretty enjoyable RPG/Action game, bad side is that main story is not very interesting, 
 and the game is very short for an RPG. If you are looking for some time to have fun laughing at 
 the many things you can do in the game freely, like sidequests, making many families, cheating 
 your wife, scaring ppl around, showing the finger to the bad guy, this is the game for you. If 
 you expect a challenging game, and a great plot, then you will be very disappointed, I mean it!
 
  
  It has never been so fun being evil in a game, but hey thats just me! You could be totally good 
 too, its all your choice! I would say I had more fun doing the several side quests like killing 
 the bandits who kidnapped some ppl, and then instead of releasing them, I simply sell them as slaves, 
 I show my butt to them and I just walk away!
  
  The fighting system and leveling up is very similar to the first Fable game, and difficulty too. 
 You can get used to the controls very quickly, and the fights are VERY easy, not matter if its 
 a boss or a regular fight, it doesnt demand any strategy to beat any of them, really! And I know 
 some ppl might think that very annoying, I believe that was not the focus of the game, but I wish 
 it was a bit more challenging. There is not "easy" or "hard" mode choice, and there is only one 
 save slot, which means what u do in the game its done.
  
  And finally, the music is good, what i mean by that is you dont get sick of the music by playing 
 for long hours, and all graphics are very beautiful. You can see many places getting transformed 
 depending on your actions. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: moonslashx
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 16, 2008 4:44 pm PT
Review:  Fable two is a unique game that is nothing like any rpg in its class. Many compare it to Elder 
 Scrolls but it is nothing as heavy and serious as Oblivion. But enough of my personal views, time 
 to get to evaluating the game itself. Fable two starts you off as a child like it did in the first 
 one, and to be completely honest, if you haven't played the first fable, do so, or half the jokes 
 in the game won't make sense. From early on you make choices that affect whether you are good or 
 evil, pure or corrupt. From there you go through a brief training period and then you are released 
 into the world.
  
  That brings me to my first complaint, the game is really frightening at first. Without a map to 
 fall back on and no real system the average player will be very confused and frightened at first. 
 However, I realized while playing that this factor was not necessarily that bad. Before wondering 
 why consider the premise that Fable was based on, getting the player to immerse themselves in the 
 game and to bring emotion into it. Game Spot does not realize this however and marks it down for 
 this reason which is bogus. Not having a very good map also forces you to some what memorize each 
 location which isn't alltogether that horrible and makes the game more believable.
  
  Next are the load times, that was highly aggravating. With a highly developed and wonderful world 
 comes the price to pay, the loads will take thirty seconds or so although it feels longer because 
 of the desire to play which you will be filled with the entire time. I marked the score down for 
 this and I believe they should have worked on that a little more.
  
  As for the issue of money, it really is kind of stupid for anyone to remark on the system. I say 
 this because if you spend an ungodly amount of time working and buy yourself an expensive business, 
 yes you will make tons of money. However that just brings up the obvious point, if you want to 
 make your game about making money, you will make money, if you want to play the game, you'll play 
 the game.
  
  The next part that boils my blood about Game Spot is their blatant misunderstanding of the reasoning 
 in this game. The good and evil system is made that way so it would be realistic. You will not 
 make millions giving discounts right away but you will if you jack up the prices which will lower 
 the economy. Also, people will like you if you are good, others will like you if you are evil, 
 that is also how the world works, what did they expect the game to change to the players will? 
 This is a world inside a game, not a world that changes based on your will alone, however the majority 
 of the world does change because of your will but that is a bit different because it really just 
 affects the place and not the people's personalities per say. Also in the story line things are 
 set up so making a choice is difficult which is supposed to bring the player closer to the game.
 
  
  Lastly I will remark on the excellent features of the game, the list is a bit long so bare with 
 me.
  The amazing voice acting- as a side note the actress that plays Kreia is also in this which sparks 
 my nerdyness.
  
  Fantastic Graphics
  Beautiful Sound Track- better then most games.
  Highly Addictive
  Great Combat System
  Highly Immersing Game Play
  Your Dog and Family Add 
 a Wonderful Feeling
  Hilarious
  You can Explore Literally Everywhere
  Everything is Buy Able
  Good Enough to Play Twice
  Jobs are Far More Superior Then Most Games
 
  One of the Few Good Sequels to a Video Game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 999realthings
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 16, 2008 4:05 am PT
Review:  Fable II starts off 200 years after the original Fable and a lot have change. The main storyline 
 of Fable II is very clever and quite interesting but however very short. The combat of Fable II 
 however is very simple and fun and easily control. It have also a great morality scale where players 
 can be good or evil and pure or corrupt and which the two don't effect each other at all. The side 
 quest of Fable II are quite fun and is interesting to see the consequence of your actions several 
 years later. The graphics of Fable II managed to bare a resemblance to the first Fable with several 
 new outlook from previous creatures in Fable. The world of Fable is much larger and therefore more 
 to do where you can buy enough land to be King or even Emperor of Albion. The family aspect of 
 Fable II is quite enjoyable but have plenty of room for more improvement. Fable II is a very enjoyable 
 game but is quite short-lived as after all story and side-quest is done, you find yourself with 
 very little things to do in Fable. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EL-NEGRO_DA_1ST
Rating: 6
Date: Dec 14, 2008 9:37 pm PT
Review:  I looked forward to this sequel since I last played Lost Chapters. After beating it the 1st time 
 around I wanted to use the disk as a frisbee for my dog. The amount of content wasn't enough to 
 detract you from that broken story line. It was basically the same as the last game just not as 
 interesting. At 1st I thought not having the version of co-op that was shown at E3 was foolishness 
 until i actually played through it. That game was too short to have every really needed co-op. 
 The only good thing about those presets was you could get extra XP. To top that off when I played 
 through as an evil character the game began to run ramped with glitches and even constant freezing. 
 I just pray the extra content that's on the way fills in for the screw ups. And hopefully there'll 
 be much more content on the way as well. They should take a page from Oblivion if need be HA! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Warrior427
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 14, 2008 9:26 pm PT
Review:  I liked the game alot just like I enjoyed the first fable and I have to say this game was alot 
 better and much improved. This is how the original fable should have been. Many people are hailing 
 the game as perfect and its getting tons of rewards but I dont think its perfect with some downloadable 
 content maybe close to perfect but there are still many things that need to be done. For one there 
 weren't enough clothing options basically you can be a bandit or a gent they made it out to be 
 you could be just about anything. Then there is the offline co-op and im sorry but it sucks the 
 camera is non existent I definitly think that could be improved on. The game was much longer and 
 more vibrant but a few more story mode quests wouldnt of hurt much. Whats with the bosses in this 
 game there arnt two many basically you have the troll and the banshee and thats it and there way 
 easiy. At least in the first game you got jack of blades and the krakken. I thought the ending 
 was ok but kind of lacking no boss battle or anything but it was intresting even though my dog 
 was killed. The load screens were another problem I was under the impression that there would be 
 few to no load screens at all. Albions much bigger thats a bonus and much more open ended but not 
 to the extent that I thought I was hoping more a ocarania of time. Even if it does have flaws its 
 still a truly great game and alot of thought was put into it and its extrelmly detailed and humerous 
 a must play for fans of rpgs or adventure games 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sostra
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 14, 2008 2:54 pm PT
Review:  So it's been a while since my last review and I just finised Fable 2. I like the the Fable series, 
 I enjoyed the first game and it's sequel is better in almost everyway. Yet, there still seems to 
 be a few elements of the gameplay and story that don't make Fable 2 stand out as one of my all 
 time favorite RPG's.
  
  THE GOOD
  
  *It took me a while to warm up to the visual style of Fable 2. Graphically it looks great, but 
 the art style of the game seemed so dark at first. I had to adjust the seetings just so I could 
 see what was going on half the time. But in the end this game does look nice.
  
  *The musical score could be something right out of a Tim Burton flick and thats what I love about 
 it, a definite thumbs up. 
  
  *Fighting is fun and the magic spells look awesome, I mostly focused on my magic and not my guns 
 or blade skills, so I can't really be sure how good those got once you leveled them up high enough. 
 I did find a lot of the sword fighting seemed pretty button mashy, but it still came through.
 
  
  *The choices you make in Fable have always been what is suppose to set this RPG apart from others. 
 For the most part choosing a "good" or "bad" path makes for some interesting moments. and I like 
 how your apperance will change depending on your allegiance.
  
  *Many fun game hours can be had with this game and it's huge world and varied quests. Plus with 
 the forthcoming DLC, Fable 2 will give you your moneys worth of playtime.
  
  THE BAD
  
  *Fable 2's map system just plain sucks. There is only on mini map and it can be really hard to 
 read at times. I really can't see why it would of been so hard to have the option of making the 
 map bigger when you needed it.
  
  *The item management in this game is horrible too. You get so many items and there really is no 
 good way of sorting them. If you want something you have to scroll through tons of items to find 
 what you need, very reminiscent of Mass Effect's menu's
  
  *Another issues I had with Fable 2 was the clothing chocies for your hero. There really wasn't 
 as much variety considering the scope of some other aspects of the game. Not a huge deal but, some 
 more threads would of been nice.
  
  *The main plot of Fable 2 seemed to have more lows than highs for me. I did enjoy the quests where 
 you find the three heros, but I seemed to be asking myself "Wait, whats going on again?' way too 
 much. Plus for all the grand adventering you do and all the fighting and leveling up, the last 
 boss BLOWS! I mean you don't even fight him!
  
  THE UGLY
  
  *Don't even bother with the co-op online play. It doesn't work and it's a waste of time trust me.
 
  
  
  Well, there you have it. Fable 2 is a solid game and I would say a must play for RPG and action 
 fans, Though it still seems that this is a work in progress for this series. It does a lot of things 
 fun and exciting but it is still lacking "someting." I have a feeling that Fable 3 will be the 
 true vision this game is trying to accomplish. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hajikaido
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 14, 2008 11:29 am PT
Review:  This game could have been an instant classic, but there are some really annoying flaws with this 
 game
  -Main quest is very short (didnt they learn from the last one?)
  -Death system takes away sense of accomplishment
  -Good/bad balance issues
  -No armor (yes 
 i know this was before mentioned)
  -Overpowered combat system, coupled with very easy fights
  -Story line is very plain and generic, 
 and the ending was sure to piss off many.
  - (minor flaw) repetition of trolls, not really any bosses.
  
  Aside from these flaws, Fable 
 2 is completely awesome, the graphics are amazing, the marriage, real estate, and dog features 
 were very well done, and there are many features that go along with these that really immerse you 
 into the game. Combat, especially the new magic system, which takes a while to catch onto but is 
 majorly fun, is awesome, especially if you use everything. The humor all the characters show is 
 genuinely funny, the side quests are fun and the jobs are a cool attachment.
  
  here come the flaws, the main quest is a dissapointment, youd think that they would learn from 
 the previous, but they didnt, it feels just as short, along with the story line being very dry 
 and uninteresting, ESPECIALLY the ending, which is so lame it seems half @#$ed. Along with this 
 the same boss, or if you could even called that, the Troll, is used so many times it gets a little 
 annoying, then after that the only really boss is that massive shard, which is the ONLY fight in 
 the game which had a spinkle of difficulty, if you could call it that. The rest of the game is 
 very easy, accompanied with the overpowered magic system, ( level 1 timewarp + level 4 or 5 inerfno 
 = Win) . After this the death system, which makes it nearly impossible to lose, what happened to 
 the revert to last save/ checkpoint? Old, but reliable.
  
  The armor, it was taken out because people always looked the same because they would get the best 
 set of armor. yet the game provides very few actual sets of clothing, and ontop of that no secret 
 sets to find. It doesnt feel right using midevil weapons, but not using midevil defenses. What 
 happened to casters being squishy and fighters being tanks? But casters dealing massive damage 
 and tanks dealing a steady mediocre amount of damage? the armor seems to take the balance away, 
 making magic the obvious way to go in this game. Last is the good and bad system, which is awesome, 
 but it is way easier to become evil than it is to become good, i spent the whole main story line 
 trying to become good and failed, but turning evil was as easy as an hour pillaging bowerstone. 
 It should be easier to turn evil because evil is always an easier path than good, but there was 
 just not really a lot of options to increase your path towards good.
  
  All in all the game is awesome, but it seemed like the developing team just lost motivation to 
 make in the best that it could. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Morkahn
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 14, 2008 10:24 am PT
Review:  Fable 2 is a great game because of quite a few things. Here are some of them:
  
  First off is it's great but simple combat system. You press X for a melee attack, Y for a ranged 
 attack and B for a magic attack. These three are very quick and easy to combine to take down large 
 groups of enemies quickly and efficiently.
  
  The way you gain experience is very easy. when you see glowing orbs after killing an enemy then 
 you press RT to draw them towards you. There are four types of experience: Strength (melee) , Skill 
 (ranged) , Will (magic) and general. You get the Strength, Skill and Will xp by killing your enemies 
 in the way which applies to each. You get general xp when you kill an enemy.
  
  You can spend this xp on spells or abilities in it's related section and general xp can be spent 
 on all three sections. Each section will change your appearence. Strength makes you look more muscular, 
 Skill makes you taller and Will makes you have bright blue lines across your body.
  
  Another great thing about the game is the fact that your morality changes your's and your dog's 
 appearance. The more evil you become, the darker you and your dog become. The more good you become, 
 the lighter you and your dog become. There is also a choice of Purity or Corruption. The more corrupt 
 you become, the redder your skin gets, you grow horns and you may also get fat. If you are pure, 
 your skin will stay normal, you will get a halo and you are more likely to stay slim.
  
  Being good or evil, or pure or corrupt will also affect people's opinions of you. Even your wife, 
 though it may say they love you, might say something like: "I knew the man you killed, Butcher." 
 Though what they does depend on your title. they won't call you butcher if you have not got the 
 title "Butcher". You can either earn these titles or buy them off a Town Crier for a fee.
  
  However, there are some bad things about Fable 2.
  
  Though the graphics are very nice 
 looking, sometimes, depending on what you are wearing, you might find your coat half way through 
 your leg so you can't see it.
  
  Another bad thing about it is the time it takes to load. Unlike some games like Oblivion, it is 
 not completely free-roaming though it is partially, due to the fact that it has to load as you 
 go from area to area.
  
  The worst thing about the game is it's short storyline. Though you can carry on playing it after, 
 it still fells a bit dissapointing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kibbik
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 13, 2008 6:17 pm PT
Review:  This is arguably the prettiest game on the 360 so far, rich textures and i love the small touches, 
 like being able to see inside the houses at night time, amongst many others. but i find no excuse 
 for using the same models over and over for the inhabitants in the game. even small differences 
 like colour of clothing would help. it really detracts from any depth this game tries to portray, 
 not helped by the sometimes obscure banter which sometimes just doesn't seem to fit what people 
 are feeling towards your character. for a game that was touted as having real consequences for 
 every action it feels rather random, and the consequences so far seem short-lived, although i haven't 
 finished the game ( i've played for almost 20 hours ) and i probably wont.
  
  in the end it felt like a simple chase for acheivements more than a desire to finish , killing 
 the same bad guys over and over and over using a mundane combat system and being able to change 
 inhabitants thoughts about you in ( almost ) a wink of an eye.
  
  the money system also leaves a lot to be desired, at first a little bit of a slog due to the monotonous 
 button pressing to complete jobs, but then rapidly becoming to easy after purchasing a few stores 
 and houses, adding to the shallow feel to the game. not to mention the claim that the game is light 
 on morals, yet it wont let you lure a child to the wheel of death at the Shadow council. a shallow 
 claim indeed.
  
  i enjoyed the first Fable more as this sequel left me feeling unchallenged and uninspired to continue 
 on. rent it and play for a day as i have friends whose children like this game, but i'm an older 
 gamer and this didn't hold my interest. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dartharel
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 12, 2008 4:07 pm PT
Review:  When i reviewed the elder scrolls 4 about a year ago i said then that you would never need to play 
 another RPG again. i was wrong. very wrong...
  
  THE GOOD
  
  Fable two has to be within the top four games of all time for me. although it comes across almost 
 as if it wanted to do everything that the other RPS titles dont do because there seems like no 
 point in doing them. What im saying is that Fable 2 actually MAKES a purpose for being, say, a 
 woodcutter, or else you wont make money and any potential family that you have die of starvation 
 or whatever. it gives the game a huge sense of reality as if you are actually living a real life.
 
  
  The combat system may seem rather simple but, when paired with the excellent graphics of the game, 
 the combat system is far more rewarding and enjoyable than Anything else i have played in recent 
 months of this genre. seriously, when that Kajiit in Oblivion mocks fable one by saying something 
 like "I love a good fable though i cannot find one", he really was lying. At least he's got one 
 now lol.
  
  Though official reviews critices the characters and their shallowness, i do not. In terms of the 
 main characters, there are some very memorable and well voiced ones like Reaver. in terms of generic 
 characters like bandits, some of their remarks and comments are really funny and tongue in cheek. 
 this brings me on to my next good point - humour.
  
  almost all of molyneux's games that i can think of take their humour from either one or two area's. 
 namely, they are "The abuse of chickens" and "Chronic flatulence". One must simply look to the 
 past with black and white, and the creatures action when excreting, or further back still to dungeon 
 keeper and the bile demons to know what i am talking about. Fable 2 maintains this harmless tradition 
 by allowing you to become a "chicken chaser" who hates chickens, or a "Nobhead" who annoys people. 
 both these are titles that other people in Albion will address you with. This is a feature that 
 i cannot remember being used before.
  
  The graphics of the scenery is the best that i have ever seen on any game from any console. another 
 thing is that it doesnt seem so blattently generic. It may not have as much as, say, Oblivion, 
 but at least it looks more varied...
  
  I terms of storyline and how it fits into the fantasy genre, i will say that Fable does nothing 
 new. it doesnt add anything, but what i will say is that it does everything extraordinarily well. 
 What i mean is, your not going to find a cast of unique races or beasts to toy with, but what you 
 will find are more, shall we say, countertypes of other fantasy elements rather than architypes.
 
  
  I neednt mention the Dog do i? i dont think any one who knows of Fable 2 doesnt know about the 
 Dog...
  
  THE BAD
  
  This game is restricting to the player almopst as much as it is freedom for the player. Im not 
 entirely sure how this game can be justified as 'free-roaming on a new level', as someone said 
 on a pre-release interview that i saw once. it is very linear and i level based. in my book, free 
 roaming is the ability to stand on a hill, look into the distance and say 'see that castle over 
 there on the mountains? i want to explore them, so i will'. Fable two doesnt allow for this.
  
  I didnt play the first game, and this game doesnt really accomodate for players that are not 
 familair with Albions lore.
  
  Similar to the fact that Molyneux liek using slapstick humour, he doesnt seem to like putting difficulty 
 levels in his games. this therfore is not a game for hardcore gamers, because its simply not challenging.
 
  
  The death system. i know Bioshock uses it but i didnt agree with it then either. As i say, its 
 not good for Hardcore gamers.
  
  Silence... one thing you never want to hear from a character thats supposed to interact with their 
 environments
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Indescent_X
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 12, 2008 12:13 pm PT
Review:  
  Fable 2 is a game that has been awaited by many for several years. And I must admit I am/was one 
 of those people.
  Here is the general Information about the game:
  Fable II is an action role-playing game developed by Lionhead, published by Microsoft Game Studios.
 
  The sequel to Fable and Fable: The Lost Chapters, it was originally announced in 2006 and released 
 in October 2008.
  The game takes place in the fictional world of Albion, five hundred years after Fable's setting, 
 in a colonial era resembling the time of highwaymen or the Enlightenment; 
  guns are still primitive, and large castles and cities have developed in the place of towns. Unlike 
 the original, the player may choose to be either male or female.
  Creative Director Peter Molyneux has played a major role in presenting this game to the public, 
 as he did in the lead up to the release of the original Fable.
  
  Now onto the actual gameplay.
  When I first started playing Fable 2 I was greeted with a marvelous 
 
  cut-scene which showed how the world has changed since the first Fable.
  Starting of as a child and Collecting 5 coins, Doesn't that sound very familiar . Yes it is you 
 had to do the same thing in the first Fable.
  Working my way through the game I noticed several other similarities between Fable 2 and Fable. 
 I wont go into detail about those for people who haven't yet played the game.
  
  Also one thing I noticed about Fable 2. When Peter Molyneux was advertising this game he promised 
 us it with the universe, but we could at least expect total freedom. 
  BUT we got quite allot of freedom but not to the extent that Peter was talking about. Such as not 
 being able to kill children. (hey when your evil it is fun) that is taking
  away from the freedom of the player.
  
  Also as in Fable those dreaded invisible walls come 
 back. Although the world is more vast than the world in Fable it still limits on some things. As 
 in (***********) when you discover 
  the ruins of (*******) I really wanted to explore it but sadly an invisible wall blocked my way.
 
  
  Even though Fable 2 has flaws what game doesn't, All in all Fable 2 offers a New (ish) storyline 
 packed with new characters and introduces a wonderful AI system for you faithful friend your Dog.
 
  I do recommend that if you have a liking to RPGames that you do try this one out. And if you do 
 like it I also recommend looking for that original or the Expanded Fable or Fable: The Lost Chapters.
 
  
  My final rating is a 9.0 out of 10. 
  For its Unique system of gameplay, Improved combat system and the many other features that made 
 my gameplay superb. Also for how they developed the storyline to fit in with weather your
  character is in a relationship with someone, That is quite unique.
  Not a perfect 10 for the 
 slight flaws that the game does have which draw back from its immersion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: britanya
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 12, 2008 6:58 am PT
Review:  Fable 2 was a very good game but i thought, that it was way to short and lacked the depth required 
 to make it an instant legend
  The graphics are amazing and make the perfect mystery, adventure setting.
  They create an magical 
 atmosphere that helps the game flow.
  but the game is a mere shadow compared to the hype built up by Peter Molyneux. many thing that peter 
 Molyneux. promised have fallen short or are not even there e. g. family interaction was very limited 
 Also just to pick you could not close the door on you house which allowed the whole of Albion to 
 walk in
  Also the world was big but not big enough the world was empty and lacked the a variety of side 
 quest. also the world being split up into different erm Provence's made the map seem small and 
 slowed down the  
::::::

::::::
UserName: soufan123
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 12, 2008 5:22 am PT
Review:  Fable is one of the few medieval RPG console games i actually like! I mean, besides Oblivion of 
 course. So right at the start of the game your thrown into choosing if you want your character 
 to be male or female, then tossed into a raid of beautiful cinematics to follow up the story. 
 
  
  Graphics:
  
  Fabl2 has terrific graphics, I havent seen a problem with any texture flaws or corner smudges anywhere! 
 But they still could upgrade from the cartoony faces adn movement to more realistic. ( 9.5/ 10)
 
  
  Gameplay:
  
  Very fun gameplay! Very smooth and efficient! ( 10/10)
  
  Story:
  
  The story is outstanding! Love it to this day and Im thinking of going back and doing it all 
 over again! ( 9.5/10)
  
  Multiplayer:
  
  The co-op multiplayer would have been a nice add-on, but it is absaloutley terrible! I would have 
 rather they kept this out of the game! It reminded me of Shrek 2 back on the ps2, but even THAT 
 had better co-op. ( 6.5/10)
  
  Overall:
  
  All in all, this game is very fun and has alot to it, a very enriched storyline and TONS to do, 
 it truly does shine. ( 9.0/ 10) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KronosIII
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 11, 2008 10:05 pm PT
Review:  Wow, this game met every hype it said it was going to be. Only real problem with it was the story 
 and the length of the game. The good about it is the good amount of side quest you can do, even 
 after the game is done. And some quest you do can even end up changing the way your world looks 
 like for the better or for the worse. The main thing that keeps this game strong is the replay 
 value. You can play this game several times through and still not be bored of it. But going through 
 the games story takes almost no time at all. The missions are literally get her, get him, get him, 
 kill him, game over. That is the story, iam serious. Other then the shortness and lameness of the 
 story the game looks amazing. And the combat is very easy to pick up. Almost anyone will be able 
 to beat this game, since you really can't die in it. Instead of death your character ends up looked 
 messed up, and you continue fighting after you fall. This makes the game go down to very easy. 
 However the combat is easy in the first place, so there is no reason to die in the first place. 
 Its a fun game to pick up and play when you want to. The extras in the game is how your character 
 looks like. It is very limited on clothing but the amount of dyes seem endless. They could of added 
 allot more, but I guess that's why they want us to buy the DLC for the game. So it is a short game, 
 because it is meant to be short I guess. Great game, but expect to burn money on DLC in the future. 
 There is most likely going to be much more story to come. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Numb094
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 10, 2008 4:43 pm PT
Review:  Fable II is possibly the only game I ever enjoyed exploring every little crevice of its world and 
 its life, taking along with me minor to no frustrations, but inspirations, and feelings of hope 
 for the evolution of single-player role-playing gaming.
  
  What Fable II does, is offers so much within its relatively tiny space compared to open-rpg's that 
 you can never feel overwhelmed by what is front of you, what needs to be done, and what simply 
 can be done without frustration and question. The game's system offers such a delightful experience 
 that its replay value will be undeniably high or intensely high, depending on you.
  
  There is nothing about Fable II that I see cannot appeal to any gamer of today, and its shortcomings 
 are so small that would be of little complaint even to the typical teenage imaginary. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: danzo337
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 10, 2008 2:03 am PT
Review:  Typical fantasy RPG which I personally like. An acquired taste at that.
  
  Interesting story but very short but don't let that shy you away, there is quite a bit of game 
 play outside the main story.
  
  First off, I have to mention it's pretty cool that you can make gold even when you're not playing 
 if you've made 'investments' in the game (e. g. buying property and renting it out.) Customization 
 choices for your character are standard but enough to keep you involved for a while. That includes, 
 weapons, magics, skills, clothing, your pet, reputation, and morality. 
  
  The online play was a bit dissapointing. Although you can see everybody in town, you don't actually 
 see there character, instead it's an orb with their GT. You can do coop with 1 other person, but 
 whomever isn't hosting gets the short hand of the stick... instead of being your own character, 
 you get to be a henchman. One dorky looking person with no magic or skills to have fun with.
  
  Quests can be interesting, leading to certain treasures and hunting spots, You can find some 
 interesting items from exploring which can be put up for trades to other players. 
  
  All in all, I'd recommend this game to any players who like the fantasy RPG genre, the spells and 
 skills are fun to combo together. Interesting story line that gives a unique ending to keep you 
 playing afterwards. The game does hold your hand a bit, as you don't really get to truly fully explore 
 the world but then again, this isn't supposed to be an mmorpg game.
  
  8/10, worth the play for fantasy RPG fans.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: bri360
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 27, 2009 5:04 pm PT
Review:  Playing fable 2 I get the feeling that it could of been so much more but either lack of time, money 
 or ambition had it falling short in many areas. First of all the game is way to easy unless you 
 are dedicated to not getting any scars, if you dont care about scars the game has no consequences 
 to dieing and it gets wayy to easy. Also the game felt shallow in many areas especially the main 
 story ending which was ridiculously anticlimactic. 
  The weird thing about fable 2 is that even though its easy, shallow and sometimes repetitive its 
 still very addictive and overall it is a really fun game. The game has many elements to the spells 
 and other fight systems that make combat very well cool lol in later game stages. Also the amount 
 of options to choose in what you do with marriage, houses clothes and other customizations makes 
 hte game very addicting. 
  
  To sum up what I think of the game, I feel it is still a good game worth a play, but im disappointed 
 in the potential greatness of this game and even the fable series not being used. The game falls 
 short in too many areas like depth to ever be a great game that gets a 9 like oblivion, fallout 
 etc etc. If this game was treated like an oblivion game with the same amount of detail and depths 
 it could be even better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kevscar2009
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 9, 2008 8:57 pm PT
Review:  Fable 2 is an RPG in which you are a hero out to avenge the murder of your sister and save the 
 world.
  
  Challenge- (3/10)
  As far as difficulty goes, this is one of the easiest games ever. All you really need to know is 
 how to press the X button to attack with swords. Sure shooting enemies is fun and all, but they're 
 so close to you that it would be pointless to do AND it's impossible to use a powerful/charged 
 magic spell without allowing enemies to slash your butt all day. In the rare instance that you 
 do somehow die, the only punishment is a slight loss of experience and a nifty little scar on your 
 body.
  
  Control- (9/10)
  The combat system concept in this game is great, but you tend to only use hand to hand much more 
 than your crossbow/gun and magic. The only problem I had with the controls came while swimming, 
 I found it difficult to maneuver to the spot I wanted to go if it was within about 5 feet of my 
 character.
  
  Graphics- (10/10)
  The in-game graphics look great in high definition, and the cut scenes are just absolutely gorgeous 
 to watch.
  
  Length- (6/10)
  The main story only took me about 4 hours (which is why this rating is low) , however there are many 
 other quests to beat and extras to unlock if you want to spend the time. Also you may find yourself 
 wandering around for hours (maybe...) teaching your dog new tricks, interacting with villagers, 
 etc.
  
  Sound- (8/10)
  Fable 2 has a great soundtrack, but the repetitive speech of the villagers became an annoyance 
 after a while. Also a couple times I had to restart the game because the sound just stopped.
  
  Story- (6/10)
  As far as the story goes, nothing stands out too much about it. Your sister 
 is murdered and her murderer threatens to end the world, so it is up to you to stop him.
  
  Fun- (7.5/10)
  Sure all the categories above may be important to the quality of a game, but if 
 it's not fun then it's still not worth playing. As for Fable 2 slaying hordes of thieves/villagers (you 
 choose which) doesn't get tiring very fast, and there are many things you can do after (or while) 
 completing the main quest.
  
  
  Final issues-
  This is where I rant about the small things I didn't like. First off there were many glitches throughout 
 the game, didn't affect my rating but I found them bothersome. I also wish that there were a greater 
 difference between being good and evil other than the villagers' reaction to seeing you. Finally: 
 the end boss fight wasn't a fight as much as it was me shooting Lucien five times and... (*SPOILER 
 ALERT*)
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  your dog shouldn't have been killed at all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Golarian
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 9, 2008 8:42 pm PT
Review:  Fable 2 is a very good game, at some times simply amazing. The biggest frustration I had was the 
 entire game world is made of hallways. They hide and decorate them nicely but very few times are 
 you actually able to stretch your legs. It's supposedly called free roaming or something, but running 
 down the same spot a dozen times gets old. Maybe it's bothering me because I just finished 70 hours 
 of Fallout 3. But it does get frustrating running into invisible and visible walls after a while. 
 
  
  However some shots with over the top HDR and fields of flowers truly are breath taking. Truly immersive 
 and beautiful. If I die ending up at the level "A perfect day" would not be a bad way to spend 
 eternity. Another plus is that the game is funny. Especially some of the item descriptions. Though 
 I believe there could of been many more choices when it comes to items, clothing in particular. 
 Though they're all useless, so maybe not. At least people who want to waste money can eventually 
 buy them with the downloadable content. 
  
  Game play wise, you really don't need anything other then lightning throughout the entire game. 
 It's nice to unleash a fully charged spell and take out a dozen guys. When I made my evil character, 
 stomping through the slums, breaking down doors and slaughtering women while their children cried... 
 It can be wickedly fun. 
  
  When the game constricts into a more narrative role I felt it was truly at it's best. Such as having 
 to choose between experience and feeding prisoners. Will you be that cold? The choices you make 
 during those portions having possibly astronomical effects when you return to the free form world. 
 Brilliant. 
  
  This is definitely an RPG experience you should check out. It has no major flaws. As long as your 
 copy doesn't freeze and force a restart that is. To Sum up, in the end Peter Molyneux did achieve 
 his goal. I miss my dog. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SpeedForce32
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 9, 2008 7:39 pm PT
Review:  not too bad of a game i thought it could have been better. the storyline could have gone alot smoother 
 and it could have tied up all the loose ends to. I did like the fact that you hyad the choice of 
 picking either a girl hero or a boy hero most adventure games you dont have a choice. They chose 
 a good variety of skills and to choose from. the longer you play the game the more into it you 
 will get. I also like that you can either be good or evil and depending on what you choose your 
 character turns into what you make him or her. Its almost like you are in the game yourself, you 
 can live out your evil fantasies that is if you have evil fantasies. After you beat the game you 
 can choose from three of everyone's favorite things. Still keeps you busy because there are missions 
 that only become available after you beat the game. Overall the game was good keeps you occupied 
 with lots of fun and enough side missions to keep you playing hours on top of hours. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Conormoylan1
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 9, 2008 12:07 pm PT
Review:  Almost there but the story line is a bit weak... As in to short. But every thing else is great!! 
 In my view anyway.
  Jobs are good but it is too easy to make money. Gold multiplies shold not be each perfect blade 
 as blacksmith and the early ranks are too easy to lvl up!
  
  Graphics on Hd TV is amazing. The places like oakfield and brightwood are very good but Wraithmash 
 lacks length. Again I think they could have improved the game a lilte bit before releasing it, 
 because i would rather have to wait a few month longer and have a better game but all in all 8/10.
 
  Also wepons to easy to buy i was buying master in a matter of days (Considering i don't get home 
 till seven and stop playing a 8:30, thats not long) .
  
  Good and Evil ok from nutal to good isn't to hard but if you do that then discoevr the demon door 
 where you have to have full coruption it is hard to get it back upand there is a silly glicht where 
 you a max soething and you get horns and halo.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Two_Six_Six
Rating: 6
Date: Dec 9, 2008 10:04 am PT
Review:  First, length of game was way too short. I beat all of the side quests and the main storyline in 
 about 14 hours. 
  The game was extremely linear in the fact that everywhere you went you were bound by a path that 
 you had to take. I mean sure you could choose which path to run down had you come to a fork in 
 the road, but you couldn't take off into the woods and find hidden areas like in Oblivion. You 
 could run around in the cities but as far as getting from place to place you were bound pretty 
 much by a single path.
  Your enemies don't rank up with you. Meaning, toward the middle of the game your character becomes 
 so powerful that you're basically this unstoppable force that can mow through any number of enemies. 
 Even bosses took less than a minute to completely obliterate.
  Last, the money system. I first I thought it was cool. You buy some property like a house or a 
 business and you sit back, relax, and make a cool profit every five minutes, even if your 360 is 
 turned OFF! But then their became a point where getting money was no problem, which may sound cool 
 but it makes the game that much easier and quicker to beat when you can buy the biggest, baddest 
 items in the game just buy waking up the next morning, turning on your 360, and seeing that you've 
 made half a million dollars by sleeping through the night. I literally bought everything in the 
 Albion universe and still had millions of dollars to go around. 
  Of all the complaints I had about this game, the one really cool thing I liked was your dog. The 
 dog in this game was truly the best sidekick/companion that I have ever played with in any other 
 game, and I think more games should implement a feature like that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: december1111
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 9, 2008 6:46 am PT
Review:  Fable II
  The role-playing game Fable II is truly a remarkable game that really shows the strength of the 
 Xbox 360. The amount of time it took for Peter Molyneux and Lionhead Studios to develop Fable II 
 is reflected in the gorgeous graphics, fluid combat, and lengthy game play. 
  Fable II takes place in the regal European-feeling land of Albion, set 500 years after its preceding 
 game, Fable. The architecture in Fable II is designed to a T, and the forest of Albion look magnificent. 
 Every tree in Fable II flows gracefully as every leaf on the trees is individually rendered. There 
 are only two downfalls I have encountered as far as Fable II's graphics go. The individual townspeople 
 add some humor and wit to the game, but the townspeople designs get repetitive and seemed copied 
 after awhile. Also, the loading time that occurs when traveling between towns and from other situations 
 seems too long, but this is due to the vastness of the game's regions. The main factor in Fable 
 II that shows off the beauty of its graphics most is the towns and landscapes. The look and feel 
 of most of Fable II's regions varies greatly from the farms of Oakville to the haunted marshlands 
 of Wraithmarsh to the seaside pirate town of Bloodstone. The transition between the grim, moonlit 
 nights and the vivid, cheery days in Fable II in High-Definition makes the moon and sun actually 
 feel real. The amount of realism and attractiveness of Fable II's graphics far outshines the long 
 loading times, and humorous interactions between townspeople make up for their repetitious designs. 
 Overall, Fable II's graphics are just a small step away from perfect.
  The main idea behind Fable II is that every action you take and every choice you make will affect 
 the world for better or for worse. Your character can be customized in many different visual ways: 
 hair, tattoos, and clothes. While celery and health potions will keep your hero slim and quick, 
 a gluttonous character that eats too much food when in need of health or goes to the bar a little 
 too much can get a nice big gut. Every one of these choices will, in turn, make your hero attractive 
 or ugly, pure or corrupt, good or evil. A short haircut and monk robes will have the ladies/ men 
 raving over your hero, but long hair, tribal tattoos, and ratty clothes will cause the townspeople 
 to think about taking an extra step away. Lowering real estate rent will deem your hero generous 
 and pure, but raising rent will make your hero selfish and corrupt. 
  Your Hero will be one step closer to obtaining a luminous halo for freeing captured slaves, but 
 killing innocent townsfolk will net wicked-looking devil horns.
  Although these actions will affect your characters' look and how the people of Albion look at your 
 hero, most actions before the end game sequence will not prevent anything major from happening 
 and will not disrupt the main storyline. But the main story of Fable II is only about twelve hours 
 long, so that's where side quests come in. Fable II is not over done with side quests, but there 
 are definitely enough to keep a player busy for quite a long time. Quests, whether main or side, 
 only net your hero renown points which make your hero more famous around Albion. In Fable II, your 
 hero will have to take up a job to make money. Will your hero be a blacksmith, lumberjack, bartender, 
 or will your hero play the real estate game? Again, there are many paths to follow, and all can 
 be simultaneously followed if desired. All the extra side quests and optional things to do can 
 greatly extend the time it will take to finish the game. I would expect Fable II to take about 
 50 hours to beat with all the extras. And don't plan on ever exploring these quests alone anymore. 
 A new addition to Fable II will be following your every footstep.
  The new and warmly welcomed addition to Fable II is your hero's dog. Your hero will hardly ever 
 feel alone in Fable II with its dog near its side. And your hero's dog is helpful, too. As your 
 hero travels around Albion, your hero's dog will sniff out treasure chests and spots to dig for 
 treasures or assorted value. The dog will also help your hero during combat, ripping out the necks 
 of enemies your hero has knocked to the ground.
  Fable II's best quality, in my opinion, is its new combat system. A change-up from Fable's controls, 
 Fable II utilizes a one-button fighting system: X is melee, Y is ranged, and B is magic. This system 
 is so easy to use, and yet feels really innovative. This one-button fighting system allows the 
 player to quickly transition between the three different fighting styles, making combat flow better.
 
  Another new addition to the Fable series is co-op mode. A friend, either on the same Xbox 360 
 or over Xbox Live, can join in and out of the main player's game with ease. The simplicity of setting 
 up a co-op game is a major plus, but this new mode of play has a drawback. When in co-op, the camera 
 can only be returned to a forward-facing position of whenever a player presses LB. This makes co-op 
 combat especially hard when in tight spaces in the various caves and crypts of Fable II. Still, 
 I would greatly encourage anyone experience teaming up with a friend to go through the Fable II 
 experience together. But, if you plan to experience Fable II's co-op aspect, don't expect a challenge.
 
  Fable II isn't a very challenging game. In Fable II, there is no way to die. If your hero loses 
 all its health, your hero will fall unconscious, only to rise to fight again with full health. 
 Other than some scars on your hero and a minor loss of experience points, there is no real punishment 
 for "dying." In addition to the lenient "death penalty", the array of enemies -- Hobbes, balverines, 
 undead, bandits, ghost pirates, banshees, and giant trolls, to name a few -- just isn't that challenging 
 to any seasoned gamer. Depending on what type of gamer someone is, though, the difficulty of Fable 
 II can be a positive or a negative aspect.
  Fable II is a thoroughly enjoyable game. Like Fable, Fable II is a tremendously great overall and 
 only has a couple let downs or flaws. Anyone who loved the first Fable will easily put the small 
 flaws of the game behind them. The amount of game play Fable II provides is a great reason to purchase 
 the game and not just rent it. I encourage any fans of the Fable series and other RPG fans to pick 
 Fable II up. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DuffBaby
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 9, 2008 12:10 am PT
Review:  I'm huge fan of the Fable series, but when it came to Fable 2 (F2) i was disappointed over all. 
 Let's start at the beginning. I like how you start as a boy or girl and make decisions that will 
 affect you future. But you will soon figure out that there's not many decisions to pick from. On 
 top of that, you should be able to customize your characters facial and body appearances with more 
 options. For example like what Oblivion or Fall Out 3 had at the beginning of the game. The key 
 to making good RPG, is giving the player complete control over the characters appearance and attributes. 
 This leads me to the second downfall of F2, attributes. I like how you still have magic and strength, 
 but the guns they give you are not important enough. Sure there's a couple side quests that require 
 the gun or cool body shots. It just isn't enough. From slashing with you sword or using magic. 
 I found pulling out my gun during battle wasn't necessary or worth the time. With my gun being 
 pointless, i decided to look around for some armor. But soon i would find out that there is no 
 cool armor to find or buy. That is one of the coolest features of the first Fable. I like the dog 
 idea, but once again the dog feature makes the player find treasure to easily which makes the game 
 a lot easier. Over all the game was fun to play and explore. It just didn't have enough juice to 
 keep it going. I would suggest renting it. If you still like it as much, buy it. 
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Supertramp20
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 8, 2008 6:21 pm PT
Review:  I got Fable 2 with high expectations and I was mostly happy with what I got. The combat is greatly 
 laid out and it's easy to transition from your sword to gun to magic. You can customize your character 
 throughout the game. You can pick their clothes, hairdo, hair colour, and tons of other stuff. 
 Also you can pick how they look but you can't purchase that. YOU have to earn it. For example if 
 you do mean things and are a crook, you'll look scary and mean. If you do noble things and help 
 the poor and bla bla bla, you'll look like a prince all handsome and tall and such. You can also 
 make your character fat bie eating a lot of food. Or make your character strong by upgrading in 
 the strength skill. The online is kind of useless I never needed to use the online and the only 
 reason I think you'll want to use it is if your friends are online. I think my favourite part of 
 the game is the dog. It's just so loyal and it makes you fell not lonely when your walking down 
 an empty road. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Azu32
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 8, 2008 6:02 pm PT
Review:  OK, 
  1. The game is too short but who the heck will rush to the end?? If you take your time to enjoy 
 the interface, the side missions and the combat system you will find that the game is too long. 
 Well, personally I don't like to left unfinished tasks behind.
  
  2. The storyline isn't deep enogh. I agree with that and I'll like to add that for me it's hardly 
 linked with the previous Fable but this is your chance to live your own story, to believe for once 
 that you are a true hero and that your decisions changes the world around you, your appareance. 
 In this game you are free (at certain point) to do whatever you imagine.
  
  3. The glitches. I have nothing againts glitches, some of them seems funny to me and if one of 
 them is too anoying I simply restart the game and thats all.
  
  4. This is my point of view. I really enojoyed this game but as some other players, if lionhead 
 will make a Fable III, I will be waiting it with very high expectations or at least that the 3rd 
 one be better, a lot better, than the previous ones.
  I would like to see more videos with very good graphics, a solid and larger storyline, less glitches, 
 less time to wait until the map loads, a hard link to the previous game and with more intellectual 
 challenge.
  
  Well I have spoken my mind now is up to You whatever you decide. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LFXFox
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 8, 2008 9:36 am PT
Review:  This is one game that has truly one my heart over. I was a huge fan of the original Fable but was 
 somewhat let down after all the hype that was given to the first wasn't met. Fable 2 however really 
 meets all that Peter M. said it would be. Between the jobs, real estate, marriages, family, quests 
 and so on and so on I just can't get enough of this game. I scored this game a 9/10 because it 
 really builds on all that the original favorite wasn't but it doesn't reach perfect in my book 
 due to a few issues I have had w/ this game. I have noticed a few bugs to date that are really 
 only minor annoyances such as not being able to buy furniture at the Bowerstone Furniture store 
 and frame rate slow downs occasionally. The menu also leaves little to be desired as it is slow 
 and clunky. Aside from those issues I have nothing but praise for this game. The music is outstanding 
 as well as the sound effects. The graphical direction of this game really pulls you into the world 
 and makes you want to really see all of Albion. The gameplay is very well done and fun. I love 
 the fact that mana is no longer an issue but magic isn't overpowering as to use higher level spells 
 you have to build up your magic meter. Replay value is high for me as I want to go through the 
 game again and again just to see what differences doing something else can make in this world. 
 I highly recommend this game to any fan of the RPG genre as well as those who like to have a very 
 long adventure. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Daveyx0
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 8, 2008 6:57 am PT
Review:  I was pretty excited about the second Fable game in the first place. But when I started playing 
 I didn`t get sucked into the story as in Fable The Lost Chapters. To bad, because the gameplay 
 is fantastic! The fight scenes in this game are just amazing to see. The graphics are also great! 
 I`m playing it on Full HD and it makes the game very realistic.
  I also like the idea of the dyes which weren`t used in Fable The Lost Chapters. Although I did 
 like the armour of Fable The Lost Chapters more then the clothes of Fable 2. But I used some dyes 
 and now I have a pretty neat suite. 
  The Gargoyles are fun to. They keep swearing at you till you shoot them and there are 50 in the 
 game, so this will keep you busy for some hours.
  The Jobs made it easy to make money. So you`ll never get any trouble with money. 
  But the people 
 who walk around you in Bowerstone. They make me crazy!! I`m a Hero so they keep worshipping me 
 like freaks! All woman in Bowerstone want to marry me and even some men love me!! OMG!
  You don`t get that much life insurance for free anymore. The enemies who you kill don`t drop any 
 food, potions or money. You can buy them, this shouldn`t be a problem because of the Jobs. But 
 still......... it`s anoying.
  The influence you`ll make in the game when you make a choice are large. But the largest change 
 is Bowerstone when you choose to be good or bad in your childhood. If you grow up as a bad kid, 
 Bowerstone will be full of scumm. But if you grow up as a good kid, Bowerstone will be full of 
 elegant people. 
  So the story isn`t that good, but the gameplay and graphics made it a hell of a game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lightfellower
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 7, 2008 11:49 pm PT
Review:  Fable II is a game about choices. In its short but eventful journey that is set in the fantasy 
 landscape of Albion, one plays the life of 'Little Sparrow', a muted hero who throughout the game, 
 would make decisions that would impact his/her morality, purity and ultimately, on how the game 
 plays out. Leading towards the release of the game, one just knows that the huge bubble Lionhead 
 Studio created is going to be a promise it would have much difficulty upholding to. So it can't 
 be helped that the bubble would ultimately burst when some of the reasoned expectations have fallen 
 short. But fortunately, it had been good fun bursting those bubbles while it lasted.
  
  Albion is a beautifully illustrated world that wouldn't have much difficulty stealing one's breath 
 away. From the lush of the greens to the glitter in the evening rivers, much joy can be derived 
 simply by tracking the world of this fantasy world. It never matches the graphical engine in other 
 similar games such as Oblivion, nor does it try to, as Albion is more of a blend between realism 
 and fantasy, thus creating a world that is so unique to Fable II. It's a pity that an epic tale 
 never materialise to make use of this breathtaking setting, but in all regards, there are many 
 side quests (mostly interesting) that would provide ample reasons for one to spend a little more 
 time in the world of Albion. 
  
  The insipid story revolves around the theme of revenge. After witnessing the death of a loved one 
 by a man of questionable motive, Little Sparrow sets out to seek his revenge under the guidance 
 of a person whose real reason for doing so is never really explained. To fight this villain, Little 
 Sparrow needs to gather the help of 3 heroes blessed with the power of might, skill and will respectively. 
 The quest in finding these heroes could have been epic, but marred by the lack of screen time, 
 the interesting facets of these characters are never fully developed. This leaves them as nothing 
 but empty shells, or mere passing instances for the story to continue, which quite sadly, leads 
 only to a disappointing end.
  
  While Fable II faltered in its story, the promise of giving players more choices is never compromised. 
 There are lots to do in the world of Albion- taking up jobs; setting up a family; buying properties 
 and tons of interesting side quests. Many of these side quests would require Little Sparrow to 
 make a decision (often one of a good versus bad nature) that would have different impacts on the 
 environment and his personality, which would ultimately affect his appearance and how the residents 
 of Albion treat him. This matter about choices extends to the very creation of the character. Little 
 Sparrow can be female homosexual that dons an assassin outfit with a pirate eye patch- imagination 
 is limited only to the vast number of collectible that exists in this charming world. Are they 
 superficial? Perhaps so. But are they fun? Most definitely yes. 
  
  Without the ability to speak, interactions with the colourful residents of Albion feel limited 
 at times. It feels awkward as Little Sparrow is often relegated to mere audience in conversations, 
 with his only form of response in the nature of 'Yes' or 'No' (for accepting or declining quests) . 
 This however, worked out well as the delightful British-accented voice acting of the Albion residents 
 is consistently stressed and put into the limelight. The impairment of speech brought about the 
 need of an alternate way of communication and in Fable II, it comes in the form of expressions. 
 Little Sparrow can learn various expressions that ranges from being crude to flirty. Executing 
 expressions would require players to complete a mini game by releasing the right trigger button 
 at the right instances. Successful executions influence how Little Sparrow is being perceived (cute, 
 rude, scary etc) and depending on how the residents like their heroes, some may offer gifts while 
 others may run away at his mere sight.
  
  While Little Sparrow can enjoy building relationships with the residents, threading the vast world 
 of Albion is at times, a lonely journey. Having a companion in a trusty dog is therefore an indispensible 
 source of comfort. Besides being a very handy tool for directing the player to unseen treasures, 
 the dog can also be useful in battles, both in fighting and in alarming of the imminent danger 
 as enemies encroach. And as the men's best friend, it never asks for anything more than a pat on 
 its furry body (or a dog treat, if one feels more generous) for a job well done. The idea of bonding 
 with a dog may sound cheesy on paper, but it had surprisingly worked out well in practice. 
  
  "Simple but fun" is perhaps the best way to describe the combat of Fable II. With a choice 
 of hand-to-hand, ranged and spectacular magical attacks, players are never limited to any particular 
 method of combat for dispensing the fearsome enemies. Each of this fighting styIe is assigned to 
 a button and can be executed by simply pressing them. And while combat is at times a matter of 
 button-smashing, the bonus of more experiences (and the sheer fun of doing so) forces players to 
 employ each of the fighting methods and in discovering the styIe that suits him best. Little Sparrow 
 can collect experience orbs by killing the enemies that he can choose to invest in each of the 
 three attacks. While the limited enemies species leaves much to desire, the extremely engaging 
 combat proves that complexity does not necessarily means better.
  
  The gorgeous graphics, beautiful music scores and impressive voice acting are marred by the long 
 loading times and some frame rate issues, but not to the extent of tainting the overall experience. 
 Although I have personally not tried, Fable II offers online co-op which is certainly a bonus. 
 Furthermore, players can choose to download the Pub games from Xbox Live, though not the best deal 
 available, are good sources of fun for those who cannot get enough of the game. However, the adventure 
 in Albion falls exceedingly short at 20-25 hours, and once completed, there isn't enough reason 
 to revisit the game other than in collecting some of the achievement points. 
  
  For a game that invests so much in forcing players' decisions, the biggest challenge Fable II faced 
 is in justifying this: Should I get the game? The production values and its sheer fun make this 
 title a hard one to miss, but getting caught up with undue expectations may just be like a game 
 of bursting bubbles- it may fall flat on your face. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: hatchen
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 7, 2008 3:20 pm PT
Review:  I am one of many fable fans. I bought the first game and enjoyed it thoroughly. I played it over 
 and over. Then I heard of a second one coming out so I began to scour the internet for information. 
 I came to a conclusion of what was promised. I would love my family, I would love my dog, and I 
 would love the people. There were other aspects promised, but the most promised feature was love.
 
  
  My oldest brother bought the last copy of the game at Future shop, the special edition, grey covered 
 one. It included bonus features, but we only bought it for the game. I played it and liked it at 
 first. The more I played it the more I realized there was no attachment to the game. I am sure 
 I hit a glitch because even thought I did everything thing for my Fable 2 family, every wife either 
 left randomly or killed herself. Then there was the dog. It was only helpful, and I use the term 
 loosely, at finding treasure. At best it led me to a dig spot, at worse it barked at a spot and 
 there was nothing there (not even enemies) . And we also have the people, they were just filler 
 to kinda there to show you how good or bad you had gotten. 
  
  There was some other problems. As mentioned many times, there was no variety of weapons or clothing. 
 The story was dull (and unskippable cut scenes) , minimal choices (good or bad, nothing actually 
 morally challenging, even though there was one supposedly hard one) , terrible one-touch magic system 
 (Most of the magic was the same thing with different special effects, I liked the variety in Fable 
 1) , and very repetitive action. The other problem I found was a few unexplained bits of information 
 about the seer (though I think she is the sister from fable one) as well a very abrupt ending after 
 making the final choice.
  
  Now It isn't exactly the worse game of all time. It's graphics were charming and it had more life 
 than what Oblivion could ever accomplish. While all the side quests tend to repeat themselves, 
 they are an okay way to pass the time. I also enjoyed being lazy from time to time to do a bit 
 of bar tending and buying up all the property. At the end I bought castle, but there was very little 
 to do there
  
  All in all I find that this game was lacking but partially entertaining.
  
  Graphics: 8/10
  Story: 5/10
  Sound: 8/10
  Gameplay: 7/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rockbjoernen
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 7, 2008 5:49 am PT
Review:  I had high expectations when I popped this game into my Xbox 360 for the first time, and after 
 finishing the game I feel both satisfied and a little dissappointed. I haven't tried playing online 
 yet, but if it's anything like playing co-op with a friend at home, it's nothing I'm looking forward 
 to. The local co-op mode feels really clumsy as you can't move around freely if both players don't 
 always pull in the same direction. Also, sharing your experience and gold with the other player 
 seems kind of pointless unless you're sharing your Xbox with someone, which isn't my case. Online, 
 on the other hand, it would make a lot more sense.
  
  The story is pretty short and feels like any other concoction of adventurer clichs, and most characters 
 are completely uninteresting. This, combined with the fact that your adventurer feels like a spectator 
 in all cut scenes as he can't talk, makes this game quite the shallow experience. 
  
  But there is also a few reasons why I gave this game a 7/10. First of all, the graphics are quite 
 amazing. The beautiful scenery and the vivid colors make this game a treat for the eye. The sound 
 is all right, voice acting is ok, and the music is good too. Another reason for the score is that 
 it's fun to play. Combat is fun, even though it's not very challenging, and experimenting with 
 your different kinds of weaponry adds another dimension to it. Buying houses is fun, especially 
 if there is a quest or a secret connected to it. Exploring the world is fun, finding all the gargoyles 
 and silver keys and so on. 
  
  So if you're looking to spend a few hours to spend on casual gaming, Fable II is not a bad choice, 
 but if you wan't a more in-depth experience look elsewhere. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CleanPlayer
Rating: 6
Date: Dec 6, 2008 12:37 pm PT
Review:  Fable 2 could have been the rpg of the year, but it falls short from making the jump to superstar 
 status. 
  
  After beating the game, I wonder if they really thought of the mistakes they made in the first 
 Fable. Honestly, they made some improvements but I can't help explain the negatives about this 
 game.
  
  Bad
  
  The game is too short! 
  I don't like the feel of the game. 
  The customizations feel recycled and left out.
  The story is not very interesting
  Your character 
 feels clunky, weird glitches are in the game, too.
  The worst map I've ever used.
  
  Good 
  
  Great graphics in the world of Albion
  Place is a lot bigger than the first Fable.
 
  Some moral choices are exciting to see how they play out. 
  Freedom to do whatever you want. 
  
  The game shines in making decisions, but dissappears if 
 you want an authentic story. I give it a Rental. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kevin_Kaniff
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 6, 2008 6:32 am PT
Review:  .... it just isn't that good.
  
  Maybe I was spoiled by Fallout 3 recently and less recently Oblivion and even 'lesser' recently 
 Rogue Galaxy and FFXII (and more, well, just lesserer recently) , but this game is disappointing 
 for all the hype and high scores it has recieved. As I said, it isn't bad, it just is not very 
 fun. Considering all the great games that have come out since Fable I, it should be better.
  
  Pros:
  
  1) Looks good
  2) Little better than first Fable
  3) Funny
  
  Cons:
 
  
  1) People follow into your home when you want to do family stuff
  2) Weapons are lame (despite augments)
  3) Apathetic to its short trite story
  4) Combat is 
 awful
  5) People follow you into your f******** home, seriously I just want to have a nice evening with 
 my family without the town breathing all the air in my f****** house, my daughter can't breathe 
 and my wife is pissed because I accidentally came on to another women, but that women was in my 
 way.... ****!
  6) The only good thing about jobs is that they are a good time to cool down and let your mind drift 
 as you do some of the most tedious a-button pushing you could ever aspire to do
  7) Screw this, let my family hate me, I'm never coming home again, I'm gonna stick to the main 
 quests and that is it.
  8) WTF, do you honestly call that a map???? no, **** you, yeah thats right, map, **** you.
  
 
  I did think the game was ok. I know I made the cons a bit long but I was so frustrated, im sorry. 
 I would recommend this as a rent. However, do not play this game if you haven't played the games 
 I stated at the beginning. Those are worth your time and money.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: wurd
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 6, 2008 5:31 am PT
Review:  WOW what hype! Probably the most disappointing game I've ever played (due to the hype) and actually 
 worse than the awesome Fable 1 simply because it's far too easy and far too short.
  The developers really lost their way with Fable 2. They made a Sims game with a poor RPG element 
 to it rather than the RPG with a poor sims element Fable was. By this I mean in Fable you spent 
 all your time doing quests and occasionally stopped to buy things make families, have affairs or 
 trade. In Fable 2 you do the opposite and is very geared towards creating businesses, interacting, 
 making families and generally exploring.
  This wouldn't be so bad if the Sims and RPG element was well balanced but it isn't. It is far too 
 easy to make money and you'll be absolutely loaded within a few hours of playing the game. This 
 effects the RPG side because you get the best weapons/clothes etc very early on in the game.... 
 so why then would you need any more money??? 
  You can carry on and buy houses and businesses but there is really not much point so you end up 
 doing all the missions which barely take a few hours so you then try to lose your virginity and 
 murdering everything that moves before doing the side quests like gargoyles etc which is probably 
 the only fun part.
  THE most stupid thing about the game though is the fact you can't die. It makes it ridiculously 
 easy and means leveling up is pointless. Why level up your health if you can't die anyway? You 
 are suppose to lose XP when your health gets to zero but it's that little it's pointless.
  
  Although the dog is a great idea it's Crap with a capital C and I know of many people who have 
 tried to kill it!! It's almost as pointless as the level up system. It finds treasure for you but 
 ultimately ruins the 'exploring for yourself' element, it's suppose to fight but pretty useless 
 and it's that easy you don't need it anyway, when it finds dig spots it's very buggy and may take 
 10-20 secs for it to show you the dig spot even when it's on top of it and generally it's just 
 a pain in the butt rather than something you'll grow found of.
  
  A huge disappointment was the fighting system and multiplayer systems. The multiplayer is awful, 
 you can't import your own character in fully and you're stuck playing on one screen which is incredibly 
 fustrating as you're constantly trying to go different ways than each other. It also makes a fighter/gunner 
 combination impossible. Why they didn't make it a proper 2 player game with split screen I dont 
 know seems like they put it in there to capture a xbox live market but didn't care if it was unplayable. 
 
  Much was hyped about the new fighting system but ultimately is no different to Fable. You hack 
 and slash all the time and occasionally kill someone by knocking them off a ledge or doing a combo 
 move. You get more XP by doing things more 'skillfully' but the game is so easy it's pointless. 
 The magic is just boring and mostly you will go all the way through the game not using it unless 
 you make a specific effort to even then it's pretty useless.
  
  The whole RPG element is awful really in fact you can't really call this an RPG anymore more just 
 a hack N slash. This could have been such a good game if they concentrated on making it a challenging 
 Sim/RPG rather than aiming at some teenage Sim market.
  Fable made Fable 2 a must buy game but clearly now Fable 3 (if it comes) will be a 'wait and see' 
 what the reviews say. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Angry_Hobo4
Rating: 1
Date: Dec 4, 2008 9:51 pm PT
Review:  I watched all the interviews about this game
  I got hyped up about this game
  i pre ordered this game
  i waited for it to be released
  i got it
  i was very angry
  Peter 
 Molyneux has done it again with this one
  A cliched story, pointless minigames and tiny world make it rubbish
  I actually enjoyed the start 
 of the game though but 4 things revealed it to be rubbish to me
  
  #1: Story
  
  The story is boring, pointless and seems a lot like the one in the original Fable. There are even 
 some quests that are exactly, EXACTLY the same, like the choice between smashing a mans barrels 
 or killing the beetles. Peter Molyneux hyped it up as a game with a great story and deep choices 
 which affect the world around you. The story is rubbish and the choices are as deep as a shot glass. 
 
  
  #2: World
  
  Mr Molyneux also stated that his game would have a world 10 times the size of the original fable. 
 It does not. The world is tiny and boring to explore because of all the bandits and monsters you 
 have to fight against every few steps. Your dog is pointless as well, you cant even give him a 
 pet and all he does is find treasure; he could have been replaced by a metal detector and no one 
 would know the difference
  
  #3: Character Interaction
  
  You cant talk to anyone in the game, you merely do 'expressions' which feel like you are trying 
 to communicate with another species and they only have a vague idea of what your trying to say. 
 Having a family is a bore and a waste of money. Did i mention you have to work for money? You basically 
 hit the button when it is in line with a colour and you get some dough. There are all these gambling 
 minigames which are pointless because they pay like crap and if you lose 10 times in a row you 
 just go and chop a few pieces of wood, no dramas
  
  #4: Lack of death penalty
  
  When you die you just fall down and get back up, which brings up the question of why you even have 
 a health bar. You lose about 1000 experience which doesnt matter because YOU WILL WIN THE NEXT 
 BATTLE ANYWAY BECAUSE YOU CANT DIE!!!!!!! Oh and you get a scar which really doesnt matter. Seeing 
 as you wont go back to replay any sections you will finish the game in less than 10-12 hours. 
 
  
  Overall, this game is just a remake of Fable and all its problems are added to with new problems. 
 I ended up trading this game in for Saints Row which was much better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Diernes
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 4, 2008 3:53 pm PT
Review:  I will keep this short.
  
  This must be one of the most overhyped and overated games in recent memory. Peter and lionhead 
 made this out to be a huge upgrade from the original, but in reality it's a step sideways and in 
 many cases a leap back. Its all style with very little substance. But hey, you get a dog....
  
  Ok lets start with the pro's.
  
  Wicked Sense of Humor and irreverant. (PC'ness is the 
 devil)
  Nice graphics
  Excellent soundtrack.
  Easy to pick up and play.
  Nice concept of character development
  you get a dog.
  
  and the con's.
  
  Terribly easy
 
  Very shallow.
  Lack of customisation options in reality
  Basic combat system which is no where near as cool as was made out
  Expression system is terrible, 
 right up there with Oblivions persuasion system
  Horendously short campaign
  Bad AI, all the people are clones and behave like robots.
  Small world.
  
  Very dissapointed 
 in this, I have played through twice, there is lots of things to do, but no real incentive to do 
 them. You can have a family, but they are an annoyance more than anything, you can buy every property 
 in the land, and be crowned king, but absolutely no real reason too.
  
  Going for a trade in tommorw.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: AGamerDiet
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 4, 2008 3:09 pm PT
Review:  Fable 2 starts off well, as well as can be expected for the character if you have played the previous 
 Fable. The graphics have a nice fairy tale feel. The music is excellent and the voice acting is 
 fine. The leveling system and the single button combat system work better then the fist game and 
 far better then I expected. Guns did not appear to be the problem I feared, as they were fun to 
 use and the dog was a wonderful addition (if you like dogs) . 
  
  
  The game has a few smaller niggles: Your character does tend to move like an unwieldy car from 
 the 1960s, but you adapt to it. The expressions are cool and you get to interact with everyone 
 in town, however, this style really limits the depth of your interactions and traps you in quest 
 even when you see you are being worked over by the quest initiator. It would be nice to say "no" 
 or "no more". Also, the in-your-face PM morality of the evils of anything but his preferred vegan 
 diet and seemingly belief that capitalism is corrupting did get a bit tiresome. Not that I was 
 going to go around raising rents (god knows you make enough money in the game) or was going to 
 go around eating tons of meat and fish but with as much exercise as my character was getting a 
 few pieces of fish should not make me balloon up and celery should certainly not be sufficient 
 to keep my "tank full" (which is why I guess you lose weight eating it) . Whatever, it's his game 
 so I guess he can make the rules whatever he wants, but as stated they did grated on me a bit. 
 
  
  However, none of the above would really lower the games score, even noting those things, it's a 
 great game until the end of the story. The game falls flat on its face IMHO in the end of the 
 story. It's not so much the choice I made or the consequences of that choice. Though those consequences 
 of MY choice made the game not fun to play after the credits role (yes you can play after the credits 
 and there is stuff to do, unlike the first game) that would not be a problem if the main story 
 had been at all worthy of replay. But the end is so useless and falls so short of satisfaction 
 that the thought of having to replay it just to make a different choice kind of makes me ill.
 
  
  So whereas the first Fable ended in an exciting way and left me wanting to play more (but finding 
 nothing to do) , this game has a terrible ending and makes me feel there is no point of doing anything 
 afterwards and leaves me with no desire to replay it.
  
  It's odd, but for me the ending of the story is important. It is my last impression of the game 
 (even in games that can continue to be played after completion) . It doesn't even have to be a great 
 "story", it's just that the ending has to give me SOMETHING to latch onto and say, that was great, 
 that was cool, that was exciting, that was interesting.... that was SOMETHING. 
  
  So an expected event occurred and the game got me ready for an ending, got me ready for SOMETHING, 
 but then it just didn't deliver.... anything. They made a joke perhaps a mildly amusing joke, but 
 ultimately an unsatisfying one that made me feel like I wasted a lot of time.
  
  I suppose I would still recommend the game, but find it hard to recommend it for full price at 
 the moment and would suggest it more as a bargin bin buy. I try to keep in mind I am still feeling 
 the lame ending and not the fun I had in the rest of the game as I write this, but I suppose this 
 is the consequence for PM and the other devs for creating such a lame ending, some people are left 
 with the impression that the game just wasn't that good after all. 
  
  Not quite 7.5, not quite an 8.0 but I guess I will give it an 8.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fodpea
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 4, 2008 1:49 pm PT
Review:  This game is amazing. The storyline is amazing but is short and to me seems to end in a cliffhanger 
 a bad one at that. Okay thats all I have to say that is bad. On the pro side there a bunch of quest 
 to do even if they are side quest. it takes a long time to buy the best place possible (without 
 cheating) . it had a few moments where i sat thinking if i should be good or evil. The dog I like 
 a lot. Oh ya another con. Not a bunch of clothing.
  Back to the pro. The combat is easy yet fun. X to melee. Y to shoot. B to use a spell. The 9 spells 
 are really good. The money income is good too it always gives u money. Also your chooses in the 
 game can really affect the game. Kids u have are also different. I played this game twice and things 
 are completly different. 
  Oh ya another con. NPC's that are in love with you are annoying they just follow you around asking 
 u to marry them which they dont shut up and u cant close them out of your house. And I don't get 
 the STD thing 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BeerforBradski
Rating: 6
Date: Dec 4, 2008 5:57 am PT
Review:  How would you like to press 'A' countless times to string together a multiplier to earn money while 
 watching the same animation over and over again. That's all you have to do if you want to earn 
 enough money to buy anything in the game. If that is not exciting enough for you, you can go rescue 
 the same slaves that you rescued from the same bandits just minutes earlier. These are just a few 
 of the idiotically easy ways to make lots and lots of money in the world of Albion. 
  
  Or, if that is not easy enough for you, just keep buying up properties. Instead of making a monthly 
 income on rent, you can make thousands of dollars every 5 minutes. Thus eliminating any pride in 
 buying the most expensive weapons available. In no way do you have to earn your coin by such ways 
 as surviving difficult dungeons. Oh, well, there is always the bandit coast where you can go and 
 earn experience points by killing the same bandits the appear at the same trigger points each time.
 
  
  Actually, if you find earning your experience points too much of a hassle, just use your massive 
 wealth to buy experience potions and drink to a stronger character!
  
  Speaking of dungeons, enjoy them when you do find them, because the 'huge' world of Albion does 
 not have much to offer in the way of satisfying exploration. Random treasure chests are often found 
 laying around in the most obvious places. And you can expect to find many of them before your 'treasure 
 hunting dog' sniffs them out.
  
  The controls just don't feel right as well. While combat can be satisfying at times, but having 
 your character 'slide' through towns and not stop in the spot that you meant too, can become tedious. 
 Having to constantly fine tune your character's position so the "Examine Property" prompt actually 
 works can become a slight headache.
  
  The map screen is virtually useless, and was obviously neglected because the 'bread crumb trail' 
 tells you exactly where to go and thus encourages you to not explore every corner of the world.
 
  
  The world itself feels more like completely separate land masses because of the long load screens 
 that separate them. Comparing exploration to Oblivion and Fallout 3 is never a good idea with any 
 game, but Fable II's just doesn't compare favorably at all. In Oblivion you had the option to go 
 from one side of the world to the other in a seamless journey on foot or horse. It added a great 
 deal to the immersion. Fable II restricts this, and makes your journeys feel jagged and uninteresting.
 
  
  Side quests vary from somewhat interesting bounty hunts and fetch jobs, to wandering around looking 
 for a potential gay lover for some woe-begotten homosexual farm-boy.
  
  I know that there is a huge following for this game and this series, and I tried to see what all 
 the fuss was about, but, man..... what a disappointment. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Brain_Fillets
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 4, 2008 2:15 am PT
Review:  I really did like this game. It was fun to play, especially when I just wanted to relax and not 
 have to worry about critical aiming or being on edge creeping around every corner ready to blast 
 someone. 
  
  The addition of professions was neat at first but the grind to get to the highest levels was kind 
 of pointless unless you were hurting for money.
  
  Running through the towns and forest areas made me feel like I was playing the first Fable, and 
 the fighting mechanics were basically the same. Although, the 'arena' mode's survival type game-play 
 is definitely entertaining. Since I'm talking about fighting... one of the biggest parts of fighting 
 is armor, which was pretty much absent in this game. You can pick up clothing items from victims 
 or buy them from vendors, but it's mostly light to medium armor. There is not really any heavy 
 plate type armor, which was kind of a let down.
  
  Don't be too discouraged though, it is still worth playing if you don't have to pay full price 
 for it. The visuals, especially if you are lucky enough to have a high-def television, are very 
 nice to look at. Overall it's a decent game that will be fun for most people, mostly those who 
 didn't have a chance to play the first one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bcp117
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 21, 2008 1:36 pm PT
Review:  there is a point were a game becomes to big and advanced fable: the lost chapters was perftect 
 but could have had more weapons and armour. fable II was a little bit over boared with character 
 apearence, my characters, after a few times being knocked out, face looked like it had been attacked 
 by bees, and hit with a mace! another thing they could have done was have your character from the 
 first game visit you in a vision or something like that. the ending were you get to choose what 
 you want could be a little less dire since everyone is going to choose to let your dog live. it 
 is over all worth it but don't get to excited. the game is farely easy, and since you never die 
 theres no point in potions unless you don't want your face to get whip creamed. i'm sorry peter 
 if im a critic but ill have to say i was dissapointed in Fable II, i know you can do better. the 
 graphics are awsome, especially the previews grade A+++ peter. but the fact that i have around 
 5 million gold is awsome you suck noobs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shadowspeed123
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 3, 2008 2:53 pm PT
Review:  rent it if u like it's not really worth buying once u can't find where u have to go it gets frustrating 
 and the above headings never go away when you want them to and the co-op is nice but when you're 
 online you both can't use your regular guy i wish their was a map the region thing is nice but 
 you never know where the next place is that you have to go plus the evil and good thing is nice 
 but once you are evil you cant be good again but you can be good as long as you want then be evil 
 the main story missions are really good but once you start doing the side missions you forget all 
 about the regular story and its hard to find where you left off your evil for everything and not 
 really good for anything i wouldn't say it's terrible it's just not great so rent it. thats all 
 i have to say about fable 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rbn1989
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 4, 2008 7:54 am PT
Review:  i was a keen fan of the original fable and after a host of revolutionary proclamations from the 
 astute and on occasion, "overly exuberant" Peter Molyneux, fable found itself flagging high up 
 my priority list for 2008.
  
  To begin with, fable 2 is unlike any other rpg game; it's excess of warmth, emotion and sheer ingenuity, 
 makes it a title that will only live in the shadow of its predecessor and none other, to put it 
 simply, there arn't many rpgs out there to date which have so daringly impose so many unique and 
 unconventional ideas and live to execute it with such distinct flair. Fable 2 is a gem, it's just 
 not that well cut.
  
  The good:
  Like the original fable, fable 2's enviroment and npcs were most enchanting. Mellifluous themes 
 and loquacious albion folk make for the most enduring expeditions and exploration endeavors. The 
 simple and very accessible emotion system was a brilliant implementation and the depth in character 
 and detail of the npcs was most surprising. The graphics and scenery were top notch. 
  
  Dynamic regions and the ever-evolving persona were also perfectly delivered. To know that in this 
 game your actions do directly impact and influence the appearance of your character as well as 
 the state of events to follow makes for a unique and refreshing game experience. This was certainly 
 a hallmark of the first fable and fans of the original one would be delighted to know that this 
 feature has been greatly improved upon.
  
  Last but not least, the incredibly easy and unique one-button-combat system and the very smart 
 and adorable pooch. If you were one of the many who had reservations regarding the combat system 
 when it was first announced, you were'nt alone. But after playing it i was pleasantly surprised 
 at the promise and versatility of the concept; easy enough for newbies to pick up, yet not too 
 shallow to turn off the hard core gamers. Then there's your dog, your trusty companion who absolutely 
 adores you no matter what. It's probably the second most important character in the game only to 
 the protagonist and it'll certainly grow unto you. I assure you it will.
  
  However, every game has it's bad points and fable 2 is certainly no exception. Ingenuity and experimentation 
 comes at a price, and while they may be perfectly executed, the trade off are the good of other 
 features.
  
  The not so good: 
  The expanded regions and free roam ability were good and they were complimented well with the lucid 
 ambient themes and superb graphics, but the lack of an in game world map or compass often left 
 me disorientated. 
  
  Next would be the absurd length of the core story. Not only was it short, it offered little surprise 
 or twists. I knew the game had to be easy but need the story be equally straightforward? The game's 
 rated M for mature, im sure the gaming community would have appreciated a more complex story with 
 a twist or 2 for good measure.
  
  Then it would be the lack of a good, iconic or satisfying boss fight, or any fight to say the least. 
 Only troll fights required meager wit, everything else was cake; i mean, i killed the main antagonist 
 (lord Lucien) with a mere flick of my sword and the game was over!
  
  Finally, i absolutely detest the childhood section of the game. It was cool in the first one but 
 way too linear and short in the 2nd. Not only cant we beat up random town folk, we cant even choose 
 the order in which we complete our quests.
  
  In all, fable 2 is a respectable game deserving of at least 2 thumbs up. Though there would definitely 
 be more positives and negatives to the game, i believe the primary issues would have been covered 
 above. I would say fable 2 is an improvement in many respects from its predecessor but it's shortcomings 
 prevent it from becoming the amazing game it was thought to be. If you loved the first fable or 
 are looking for a refreshing rpg experience, then fable 2's the game for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: devinegod135
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 3, 2008 2:58 am PT
Review:  The game is structured around the concept of choices and consequences. You are quietly presented 
 with choices of morality that are not quite so clear and how you choose affects the total outcome 
 of your standing in the world. Unlike Grand Theft Auto that is willing to dispense forgiveness 
 by a simple trip to the Pay-N-Spray the moral choices you make in Fable 2 have lasting serious 
 consequences. Choices of right and wrong are balanced with the quest for power and fame. Sure this 
 game is rated M for Mature but since it presents moral consequences for your actions I would have 
 no problem having the kids that I know enjoy this game.
  
  If you ignore the previous game and look at Fable 2 on it's own you will see an wholly successful 
 action adventure game that can stand on it's own merits. This builds on and expands on the conventions 
 of Fable crafted by Lionhead games. That is a phrase that really applied to Fable 2; handcrafted. 
 You can tell that this game was a labor of love by Sir Peter Molyneux. You know it is going to 
 be good when it is a game designed by a knight of both England and France. The first game is not 
 a prerequisite but if you liked the first game than you are going to eat this game up. It is going 
 to be yummy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Leakybubbles
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 2, 2008 11:50 pm PT
Review:  Okay, so it's a good game. You make decisions, you can do whatever you want, you can have jobs, 
 wives, go on quests, buy clothes, books, and food. You can buy weapons and have fun annoying people 
 or doing dumb things.
  
  The game IS fun, don't get be wrong. And you will most likely like it. The problem is.. it doesn't 
 seem to have enough depth. The storyline is pretty weak and the fighting system is pretty simple, 
 hack-and-slash with a few extra combo attacks and a few spells.
  
  As soon as I put the game in I thought, "Hey! This game is pretty fun. I hope its good." Then you 
 play a little bit more, "Awesome!" Then you say, "SWEET!" Then all the sudden, BAM! It's over! 
 And you were just starting to like it! Even with all the extra quests and things to do, it gets 
 old FAST.
  
  You will end up beating it in less than 10 hours and then finding yourself not able to play it 
 anymore because you're sick of it. On the POSITIVE SIDE, it does leave it's magical charm and it 
 was a great experience to experience. I just wish (and you will too) that is was longer and had 
 more depth.
  
  Good idea, just didn't do enough with it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: i_am_game99
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 1, 2008 9:25 pm PT
Review:  Fable 2 is a hard game to desribe. It has its goods... and its well not so goods. 
  Fable obviously has a good graphics system and a decent voice acting. It has a challenging gameplay 
 due to the annoying abesence of amour or even some form of defence. Its proberly the easiest RPG 
 on the 360 to make money in and to make people like you. Dance twice, sock puppet twice, pose twice. 
 You've got your self a wife. It has an interesting 'level' system, which leads me to the downfalls 
 of the game.
  
  The level system. An RPG should have levels for characters or skills. Fable only lets u advance 
 in certain skills. No levels. No defence. It also has poor run around enviroment. Yes its bigger 
 than the orginal. It just lacks freedom to move around compared to the annoyng invisable walls. 
 A larger enviornment could also contribute to this. 
  
  This game is worth getting, but be sure to find something you hate about it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CrashMacKenzie
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 1, 2008 9:00 pm PT
Review:  Back in 2004, Lionhead Studios released a game that was supposed to be like no other. A game that 
 would allow you to live the life of a great hero. The finished product was a decent action RPG, 
 but certainly was not the industry changing work that it was hyped to be.
  
  Jump forward to this year, Lionhead returns with Fable II.
  
  To start off, Fable II is an 
 improvement over the original in nearly every way. Now that that's clear, this game is unltimately 
 just as big a letdown as it's predecessor. Sure, the graphics are tremendous and Albion, as a setting, 
 feels alive.
  
  Those things said, nothing outside of those things wowed me. As each facet of the game was introduced 
 to me, one thought kept occuring; 'Oh. That's cool, I guess.'
  
  A dog that finds treasure? Getting a job to earn money? Having a family? Buying every building 
 in the world? Being good or evil?
  
  'Oh. That's cool, I guess.'
  
  The game's story didn't really do much for me, either. Not that it was bad, necessarily, just not 
 really impressive. And the less said about the ridiculous expressions, the better. 
  
  All things considered, Fable II carries on the Fable tradition of over-hyping and under-performing.
 
  
  So, for the final verdict, let's go to The Simps-o-meter! (Excellent = Excellent, Woohoo! = Good, 
 Meh = Ok, D'oh! = Poor and Ay Caramba! = Terrible)
  
  Presentation: Excellent
  Gameplay: Meh
  Story: Meh
  Polish: Woohoo!
  
  Overall: Meh 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SasukeXXChidori
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 1, 2008 6:55 pm PT
Review:  Fable II was a pretty good game. There where a few mishaps tho, some main things that bugged me 
 where the repetitive gameplay, after awhile things just kept being the same old same old. I will 
 say it was much better than the original (which I rarely say) . The story to Fable II was pretty 
 good I must say to revenge your sister and meet the other "hero's". Something that really bothered 
 me tho was the lack of Final Boss fight. It was just a simple, "okay your there I can either shoot 
 you (one hit ko) or wait for one of my fellow hero's kill you". Which I found very disappointing, 
 that one thing right there took away a great deal of fun, enjoyable originality from the game. 
 
  Another thing I found flaw in the game was there where many glitches in the game for example, When 
 there where many enemies on the screen the game would run a tad bit slower and lag up. I found 
 this very frustrating when you where trying to open the portal on top of the Heroes house. But 
 yes this is my review and what I honestly think of the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JoReph
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 1, 2008 6:54 pm PT
Review:  This is a really fun, creative, addicting game. It's fun to level your character how you want to. 
 Battles are really fun, so is watching people's reactions to your expressions. This game is filled 
 with MANY SIDE QUESTS. Most of the game is just side quests, for the main story is kinda short.
 
  
  Gameplay- Fun. 
  
  Graphics- eh, they are alright, could have been better, but still not bad.
  
  Sound- the sounds 
 are great.
  
  Story- could have been put together a little better, kinda disappointing, still not too bad.
 
  
  Overall, its a fun game, but not as good as I thought it would be. Doing the side quests of this 
 game will keep you busy to 20 to 30 hours, as for the just doing the main story would probably 
 take you up to 10 if that. It helps to do the side quests to level your character up as well, so 
 if you get this game, dont just rush through the main story, or you will be disappointed and your 
 character will be weak.
  
  Also, once you beat the game you are able to back and do other side quests as well, so once the 
 main story line is over, there is still more to do.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: -Xodus-
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 30, 2008 8:39 am PT
Review:  Gameplay [8.5/10] -- The game play of Fable II wasn't too bad. I didn't really notice much difference 
 between the feel of the game play from Fable and Fable: The Lost Chapters. Of course, it all games 
 there are little corner you get stuck in but those are generally unavoidable. Target specific villagers 
 was added, but there's no way to target it manually. You must face them to target them and can't 
 select them yourself, but that isn't a big deal. Other than that, the game play is very good.
 
  
  Multiplayer [6/10] -- This is where, I think, the game needs the most improvements. Getting them 
 through content patches over LIVE would be a way to boost the game's rating. There were many problems 
 with the co-op system, at least. I haven't played co-op on a single Xbox. So, for the problems 
 on LIVE co-op: the camera system sucked, you can't use the right stick to look around. The only 
 way to change the camera is the left bumper. Both the player and the henchmen have to be on screen.
 
  
  That segways to my next problem and that's the fact that the two players can't get too far apart. 
 They both need to stay on the screen, which I mentioned before and that doesn't make sense to me. 
 If you're on separate systems, why need to both stay on screen? I could understand if both players 
 had to stay in the same area, but not on the same screen. I don't see why that's needed.
  
  To cure that they added the ability to teleport the henchmen to your side if they got too far behind, 
 but that system always lagged. Another reason this rating was so low was because there's no way 
 to have two main characters in the same world. It always needs to be a main character and a henchmen. 
 Many players were hoping for a free roam system, but that wasn't delivered.
  
  Combat System [10/10] -- The combat system by far was the best part about the game. You have three 
 main ways to hurt people: melee, ranged, and will. Melee uses light, fast weapons and heavy, slower 
 weapons. Such as swords and hammers, respectively. Ranged uses weapons such as crossbows, pistols, 
 and rifles. Pistols are fast to reload but don't do a lot of damage, but they fire rapidly. Crossbows 
 sit somewhere in between pistols and rifles. Whereas, rifles are slow to reload but pack a powerful 
 punch.
  
  Overall this system is great and it nearly saves the game from a horrible rating from Gamespot.
 
  
  Graphics [9/10] -- The game's graphics are also excellent, but the reason the rating isn't a 10 
 is because they do have one problem. I have seen places where villagers walk into and through each 
 other and there is a widely known glitch where Lady Grey gets stuck in one of the walls. Other 
 than those two problems, the graphics are good and the environments are even better. Grass moves 
 when the hero walks through it, which is a very nice touch in my opinion.
  
  Sound [8.5/10] -- There's no problem with the sound but I really don't like how there's no voice 
 or dialogue that comes from the hero. I don't like games where the main character talks, such as 
 all three Fable games and both KOTOR games. Other than that, there's a good amount of varied sounds 
 from various places. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wiixx3
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 29, 2008 10:07 pm PT
Review:  Fable is one of Microsofts valued franchises. It falls in the same rank as Halo in that category. 
 Fable, as we all should know, is a action/role-playing game that was set in the ancient era. Now 
 Fable 2 is in the setting of the colonial era and has brought a whole lot of changes. In Fable 
 1, you couldn't use guns but in Fable 2 you can. Combat is a whole lot more satisfying in Fable 
 2 because all your combat skills is all in its own individual buttons. Albion is much more bigger 
 than in the first one scaling about 10x more than in the first one. Fable 2 has more customization 
 than in the first one too. Fable 2 also has a dog that helps you from time to time in missions. 
 There are some faults in Fable 2 as well. At times the missions/quests can get repetitive from 
 time to time and there is some glitches here and there, but overall Fable 2 is a fantastic game 
 that you should spend a lot of time on. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tking1293
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 29, 2008 6:54 pm PT
Review:  Remember the first Fable? How all of the things we were promised never really came together? Well, 
 they find a way to make everything work in the sequel, if you want to call it that. I'll start 
 off with the major changes. The addition of the dog is wonderful. It adds a sort of companionship 
 that you don't really notice until the end, like when your dog is hurt and limps around trying 
 to follow you while you continue not to heal it. And that's it for major things. The good and evil 
 aspects are still there, and people react to you the same way they did in the first. Embracing 
 you if you are good and almost peeing themselves when you are evil. They tried extending this with 
 another meter for purity and corruption, but it's just a joke. To max it out you either raise prices 
 of buildings or lower them. Combat works much better than the first. The range weapons (which now 
 include mostly guns unlike the previous bow and crossbow only) can be fired much more quickly and 
 easily. With the press of the Y button you go from slashing to shooting. The will has also been 
 improved. In the first it seemed meaningless to use because it did hardly any damage. Now you can 
 hit multiple enemies or stregthen the blow by targeting one person. The problem with this though 
 is that by level 4, the area is huge and the spell does so much damage that there is really no 
 point to raising the others much. Why slash at enemies when they could be a One Hit K. O? The family 
 has been expanded, adding children. This is pointless. Having a wife and kid are more work than 
 reward, considering that every day in the game some of your money is sent to them and if you don't 
 visit them enough they leave you. Buying property is also still there, but is repetative. You do 
 crappy mini-game jobs until you have enough money to buy a place, earn money from that and doing 
 more jobs until you make so much every 5 minutes that you've already bought everything in the game. 
 The story is also short. Fable 2 is not a bad game though. While I might have griped at things 
 it's only because Peter Molyneux promised us much more out of this. I recommend just renting it 
 rather than buying, because with its short story 3 completions won't take that long (after that, 
 there are no more endings to choose from and you can do things like own all the land very easily) . 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TwistedMetalFan
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 29, 2008 5:06 pm PT
Review:  A little over four years ago, Fable hit the Xbox with a very unique RPG. With more choices to make 
 than the average RPG, it had a lot going for it, for example, your hero's appearance changes with 
 the choices you make. And now, after a four year wait, a sequel has been made, and it improves 
 upon everything did right, with very few disappointments
  
  Lets start out with what probably one of the few things that annoyed me, the story. Though it is 
 still very fun to play though, the story adds very little to the fun. I'll try to explain without 
 giving to much away. It's a story about revenge, on a man who wants to change the world into his 
 vision, and there's not much more to it than that. No big twist, just very plain, simple story.
 
  
  The one thing good thing about the story, it gives you a very good reason for some great action, 
 and deep impacting choices. For example, when you start out as a child, there are about four, or 
 five good or evil choices, and one, just one, of these choices changes the town completely, it 
 will ether become a nice, successful town where everyone wants to live, or a poor, rundown, dump 
 where beggars, and prostitutes are a common sight.
  
  And that's where game truly kicks off, there are more choices that have a big impact like that 
 later on in the game. But the game play itself, is plain addictive. The new combat control scheme 
 is really simple, X controls your melee attacks, B controls magic, and Y controls guns, and crossbow 
 attacks. It works very well, making the game very accessible to new comers to Fable. 
  
  Another feature is Co-op, which works very interestingly. Another player can join you ether locally 
 or though Xbox Live. It works surprisingly well. The camera adjust itself so both players can see 
 there hero. So there no problems there. But there is one problem with it, you can bring your hero 
 into another hero's world. Instead, you choose from a pre-made hero. But you can choose weapons 
 based on how powerful your hero is, so your power still remains.
  
  Speaking of who you'll be playing the game with (If that made any seance) , the dog is one of the 
 best new features there is. The game truly makes you feel attached to your companion. Making exploring 
 Albion even more fun. Another new feature is you can now start a family, instead of just getting 
 married. Although it doesn't work as well as your dog, its still pretty cool that they added this. 
 And having a family makes the game's final choice feel a lot more important to you.
  
  The graphics aren't to impressive, not bad, just not great. But the art in this game is beautiful, 
 its very fun just to look at everything around you. And the world around you, is much bigger now. 
 Albion has grown a lot in five hundred years. Although its not as big as say, Oblivion, its still 
 a pretty good size.
  
  And that's pretty much it. The long awaited sequel is almost everything fans hoped for. So if you 
 have an Xbox 360, and are a fan of RPGs, you should check out Fable 2. You will lose yourself in 
 this fantasy world. It'll be hard to leave Albion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aLexanderrness
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 29, 2008 2:38 pm PT
Review:  fable 2 is an amazing game. the graphics are beautiful, the voice acting is tremendous, and the 
 variety of customization is endless. you can decorate your home, move into or buy nearly any home, 
 and marry nearly everyone. the combat is very well constructed, the spells, the melee attacks, 
 and the ranged guns/crossbows are very useful and extremely fun during combat. the player is able 
 to buy clothes, food, and much more. 
  
  the food you consume may effect your body type and if you draw your weapon around citizens they 
 will view you as evil. the interaction between player and npc's are cool at first, but they get 
 annoying. when you enter your home and you are famous throughout albion, people will enter your 
 home, and it gets extremely annoying. your wife demands to see you as well as your son and it's 
 too much of a hassle while you're in a quest, it seems as if the developers of fable wanted to 
 make people stick to the game with all these chores. 
  
  I haven't tapped into this game all that much yet, but so far it seems like a great game, well 
 thought out and I see that the developers put tons of effort into this great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dracula_16
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 30, 2008 12:28 am PT
Review:  Fable 2 is a role playing game that puts a large emphasis on choices that you make. You could see 
 a small hint of that in the first Fable but this time around it's much more fleshed out. You can 
 choose your character's sex, moral alignment (good or evil) , clothes, abilities, hair/facial hair, 
 sexuality and more. This means that if you want to play as a lesbian with a beard then you're free 
 to do that. 
  
  You'll start the game as a poor kid who lives with his/her sister in the Old Town district of a 
 place called Bowerstone. For the sake of not spoiling what happenslet's just say that one thing 
 leads to another and your ultimate goal is to avenge an unfortunate event caused by a guy known 
 as Lord Lucien. After you're given your motivation the story skips ahead until it reaches your 
 adulthood. You pick up from that point on. 
  
  When you're an adult you'll get to have a dog join you on your journey. The dog was the most hyped 
 feature about Fable 2 and I can honestly say that this feature is a resounding failure. You are 
 rarely given a reason to care about your dog. One of the main reasons why this is true is because 
 the dog does almost nothing. He'll point out hidden treasure chests and buried items but that's 
 all he's useful for. He barks whenever he finds something but he won't stop until you find that 
 thing that he sniffed out. You can be in a big fight with lots of enemies but your dog will just 
 bark and run around in circles like a Jack Russell terrier on crack while all of this takes place. 
 He's purely an annoyance throughout most of the game. 
  
  It also hurts me to say that most of the dog's animations would make a ten year old game jealous. 
 Here's a fun experiment that you can try: if you have a dog in real life try and call it over and 
 see how many times your dog will switch directions on a dime. Next, count how many times your dog 
 walked directly through an object or another person. If the result is anything above zero then 
 congrats; your dog is as realistic as the one in Fable 2! The technical problems don't stop at 
 the dog, though. There are a lot of pop-in issues. This can range from a small patch of grass to 
 a large group of people suddenly popping in view. Technically speaking the game looks unpolished. 
 
  
  Artistically speaking that's another story, though. All the different town districts, enemies, 
 NPCs and spell effects are beautifully designed. In a rich district you can find very posh looking 
 women with powdered wigs and elegant dresses. The poorer places are home to raggedy looking prostitutes 
 and homeless people. Even the most barren forests have a charming look. You really get a sense 
 that there was a ton of effort put into the artistic aspect of the graphics. 
  
  Many of the quests in Fable 2 involve combat and this is where things get interesting. The combat 
 is one of the biggest improvements over the first Fable game. You'll automatically lock on to nearby 
 foes and the one you're targeting will have a red glow around it. The lock on system in Fable 1 
 was nothing but a pain so that's been fixed for the better. You can kill dudes using magic, ranged 
 weapons or melee weapons. Magic spells include basic stuff such as fire and lightning spells but 
 it also includes some weirder stuff like confusing your enemies in battle so that they'll be washing 
 the ground or vomiting. 
  
  Crossbows and guns are available if you'd prefer ranged combat and this works just as well as the 
 magic does. You can [eventually] aim manually but you'll automatically lock on to a nearby foe. 
 This minimizes frustration because this is not a shooter so therefore it shouldn't play like one. 
 Hacking dudes up with melee weapons is decent, I guess. There aren't enough combos so it'll be 
 easy to lose interest in melee combat. You can block with the X button and there's also a move 
 called flourish which will allow you to break through an enemy's blocking attempts. The melee combat 
 basically takes no skill compared to magic or ranged.
  
  Your character's communication skills are just as shallow as the melee combat. Every other person 
 can talk but somehow your guy/girl can only do various expressions like flipping someone off, dancing 
 and farting. It makes no sense that everyone in the world can adore you but you've never even said 
 a word. Being able to fart on command is great but I would prefer being able to fart as well as 
 having some basic talking skills. 
  
  However, you won't [usually] mind being talked to because the voice acting is thoroughly outstanding. 
 There's someone named Theresa who has done an especially great job in delivering emotion with her 
 voice.
  
  The strongest aspect of Fable 2 is the quests because there's a good amount of variety in what 
 you'll be doing. Freeing slaves, collecting holy water, bounty hunting and burglarizing are just 
 some of the things to do. There's even a good bit of humor with the bards who can sing you songs 
 based on how you've been playing. My favorite one is "Our hero went to Bower Lake and gave that 
 Thag a belly ache". 
  
  It's also worth mentioning that between fighting and passing gas you can transfer the gold that 
 you earned in Fable 2: Pub Games which you got for free if you pre-ordered Fable 2. If you didn't 
 pre-order it then you can buy it on the Xbox Live Arcade but it's definitely not worth doing so. 
 You shouldn't have to pay for something that should've been included for free (for everyone) . Imagine 
 having to pay real life money in order to use cars in Grand Theft Auto 4. Doesn't sound too appealing, 
 does it? 
  
  Fable 2 is like a small piece of turkey with a lot of mashed potatoes on the side. The main quest 
 is good but short, and the game is made much better because of the compelling atmosphere and optional 
 quests. I've handed out a lot of 8s in the past so before you accuse me of being generic with the 
 score let me explain; if the technical problems were smaller and the story was longer then I'd 
 have no problem giving Fable 2 an 8.5 out of 10. Plus, any game that lets you fart on command automatically 
 has one good thing about it. Thanks for reading. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RD1109
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 11, 2009 12:57 am PT
Review:  The original "Fable" was the first RPG to evolve as you progressed through the game. While the 
 evolving gameplay worked wonders, the game still had many flaws and a really weak story.
  
  Fable 2 fixes the first game's problems and brings almost none of it's own. To begin my review, 
 I would like to say that the beginning of the game is extremely enticing and starts things off 
 with a bang. The game keeps this bond throughout the entire game by throwing new problems at you 
 and progressing through different quests and jobs.
  
  There is many ways to earn gold in Fable 2. A few of the most commen ways are working at your job, 
 doing quests, finding a treasure chest, selling items, or even entertaining a crowd of villagers 
 with the games expressions system. These expressions are a huge part of the game and are just plain 
 fun to do. The game has a main story to follow, but there is so many extra things to do that it 
 would be a completely different game on a second playthrough, giving the game amazing replay value. 
 You can make friends, get drunk, kill guards and innocent people and get into a mess of trouble, 
 get married, buy houses, own businesses, have children, play with your dog, do side quests, read 
 books, and even work at different jobs such as blacksmithing and wood cutting. With all of these 
 things to do, you're looking at about 30 hours of play time. Now, the plot of the game is the lord 
 kills your sister and escapes, so you want to find him and avenge her death. I promise you, I didn't 
 spoil anything. That's just the very beginning of the game. In all honesty, there has been better 
 stories, but this is still a very good one. Even without the greatest story ever written, Fable 
 2 still delivers an amazing game. Not to mention the combat! The combat is among the best I've 
 seen in an RPG. The newly added rifles bring a whole new twist on the game because the enemy can 
 carry them too. The hand-to-hand combat is where its best. The sword play is great and feels wondeerful. 
 You have three attacks - melee, long-range, and magic. Now any spell can be used if you have it 
 unlocked, expanding your arsenal to about 12 different attacks in one fight. 
  
  All in all, Fable 2 has plenty to do, a good story, and an amazing combat system. With it's only 
 problems being that the frame rate occasionally slows, the ending is slightly confusing, and gold 
 is much too easy to come by... Fable 2 is a great buy and a must have for RPG lovers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bamblam
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 28, 2008 8:38 pm PT
Review:  Fable 2 has so many cool features, it's not even funny! Great RPG gameplay but also many original 
 features. every possible thing you do can affect ur appearance and how people think of you. The 
 possibilities r endless for example you can even have your own family! Combat is great but mix 
 it up a little!
  
  BAD: ranged weapons arent much fun. on the back of the game case it says "who needs roads?", well 
 in Fable you cannot just explore watever you want, there are routes and paths you have to follow/
 
  
  For people who want a challenge Fable is not really for you, but if you turn off the glowing trail 
 it makes it harder
  
  Map sucks
  
  i give it a 10 becuz Fable 2 is amazing!  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: classicgameR4
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 28, 2008 7:15 pm PT
Review:  Fable, the series, is beyond words. Fable has a charm. It has a very life like way of making you 
 feel your actions, and their consequences. 
  I'm not sure, but I don't think Fable II has the same charm as the first. It has improved on gameplay, 
 except the whole will system in general, experience, and shopping. Man they messed that up good, 
 the Will in Fable was amazing with how it was used the spells and everything. Went down the toilet. 
 They also switched the colors of Strength and Will. 
  The fact that you have to collect orbs for everything not just general is tedious.
  There is 
 no quick menu or d pad to assign items on making items a pain. And the fact that stores never have 
 more then one item at a time means you have to go through all the hundred types of celery. If you 
 want to use a ton of items in a row it will take you forever because, you have to go to the menu 
 into all the submenus everytime, it takes so long. There should just be a few types of items that 
 if you want can do a ton in a row. And its so easy to get fat.
  But there is so much good about this game it is deep, if only there was a final boss.
  Next, 
 Fable II Lost Chapters 
::::::

::::::
UserName: martianrobot
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 27, 2008 10:48 pm PT
Review:  Maybe it's because I only just played the original Fable for the first time a few months back, 
 or because I've spent the past week in an altered state playing the Fallout 3, but I have to say 
 that I am quite underwhelmed by Fable II.
  
  And I'm wondering if I'm just getting a bit jaded by games. I'm certainly not as eagerly awaiting 
 the games coming out in the next few months as I was.
  
  I founde Fable II all a bit, well, so-so. It does look better than the original (though less than 
 I expected as I played Fable on my 360 in all its upscaled goodness) and the enlarged 'open' world 
 areas are very pretty and smooth. But gameplay seems much the same if somewhat more fiddley and 
 less involving - the controls feel a lot less intuitive and the GUI more cumbersome.
  
  It really only feels like a minor development on the original, though is lacking in some of the 
 charm and humour of that, and is hindered by some questionable omissions - the disappearance of 
 the updating world map is a big fault, and what happened to armour of different strengths.... and 
 dying? I don't think I've got killed yet in 4 or 5 hours play, and have only had to use one food 
 item to regain a bit of health!
  
  A few of the additions are good; the dog is a nice, if rather limited, companion and the ability 
 to earn money from 'work' is quite good fun, though I have to say the economics of it are too generous 
 - I trebled my gold from 2000 to 6000 in about 10 minutes chopping wood!
  
  I have to say also that I feel the story is quite lacking, though my heart did skip a beat at the 
 horrific end of the Childhood sequence. Gulp!
  
  I also think the addition of individual relationship statistics for every person a bit OTT... who 
 can really be bothered with it? Especially when my character doesn't really show many emotions 
 itself.
  
  So Fable II is a bit of a let-down. That's not to say it's bad or not much fun. But it's just not 
 special or enough of a development from the first game. Maybe, like I said, I am feeling like this 
 about Fable II because of what I've been playing recently.
  
  And perhaps I've just gone a bit overboard with my RPG games playing of late, hell, with my games 
 playing full stop. On top of the original Fable and Fallout 3 I've also recently completed both 
 KotOR games, Jade Empire and carried on with Oblivion - but I have a feeing I would still feel 
 underwhelmed by Fable II if I hadn't.
  
  I think I'll just take a break from games for a while, and, like that old kid's TV show said, switch 
 off my television set and go and do something less boring instead... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: keyhole_romance
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 27, 2008 1:16 pm PT
Review:  For the first 6 hours I was enthralled, delighted and amazed. Excellent story, fun minigames, the 
 brilliant inclusion of the dog and a combat system that functions far better than that of the original, 
 particularly in terms of the magic system. Most of the fun you'll have from this game either revolves 
 around you pushing people about with your magic or messing about farting in front of your dog. 
 
  
  The graphics are incredible, you can explore beautiful cities and enchanted forests and the NPC's 
 are hilarious (special mention goes to Reaver) . But I encountered a few problems.
  
  When I reached Westcliff, home to The Crucible and my own personal videogaming hell, I had already 
 experienced several strange glitches and corruptions which had forced me to restart the game, but 
 suddenly the game had become almost unplayable. I could no longer pause the game to check my inventory 
 without the game crashing, and during combat the game would occasionally freeze completely; no 
 soundtrack/voices or character movement. 
  
  I took my copy of the game back to the store for a refund and awaited the patch that would fix 
 this problem. Sure enough it was released and I borrowed a copy from a friend and completed the 
 game. To say the ending is anti-climactic is an understatement. A VAST understatement.
  
  Also, there is little incentive to keep playing. What is left to discover? There are no new lands 
 to visit, and very little left unturned. Sure, the world changes after you leave The Spire depending 
 on your "karma". But who cares? There's no incentive to go looking for new items because you've 
 already found most of what the game has to offer by this point anyway.
  
  I had already obtained the master class weapons, leaving only the possibilty of legendary weapons, 
 and although you can change the colours of the clothes the variety of outfits seems somewhat limited, 
 with all the stalls/shops selling pretty much the same products. I ended up wearing about two different 
 outfits throughout the entire game as the rest were awful. Where has the armor from the first game 
 gone? Do people not make it anymore? Have they forgotten how? Or will we simply have to pay for 
 extra content that should have been included in the first place through DLC?
  
  Seriously, Fable 2 is great, but your RPG of choice should be Fallout 3. Get that instead of this. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Duvendor
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 27, 2008 10:28 am PT
Review:  Fable II is a great game with beautiful graphics details that is the most "charm" of the game. 
 Its very very funny all the speeches from the NPCs and you spend so many hour without notice 
 the passage of time. Ive just miss some points of the most RPG games around like XP points and 
 Leveling the character. Its so simple and so easy on this game. This follow-up to Fable has little 
 to do with the original, but if you have played Fable, you will recognize several hints reminiscent 
 of the first game. This adventure is very straightforward-you begin as a street beggar and work 
 your way up to finally put yourself in a position to save the world. How you interact with the 
 game determines the game path. You can be a Robin Hood type, stealing from those with more and 
 giving to those with less, or you can be a selfish hero. Your path to saving the world is not one 
 you take alone-along with you is your ever-faithful dog. Emphasis on ever-faithful no matter how 
 poorly you treat this dog or how much you neglect him-he remains a loyal ally. Staying on the path 
 to victory is made all the easier by a golden breadcrumb trail which keeps you from straying into 
 meaningless cul-de-sacs. Get this game, save the world and dont forget to pet the dog. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Theegamedude
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 27, 2008 9:51 am PT
Review:  I was one who didn't dig fable 1. But I got Fable 2 anyways. I have to say this is the best game 
 I've ever played. And the scenery? It's a work of art. It's beautifully rendered. I think 8.5 as 
 a review rating doesn't do it justice. Seriously. I love this game. I do have beefs with it, however. 
 I mean, if you are going to allow characters to buy condoms and have sex, you should show it, rather 
 than having it go to black and hear voices. It's a mature rating, right? I think they should show 
 a little something something. I'm a perv that way. That said, this game is fun, and the best I've 
 ever played. Not too hard, not too easy. Exploration is a joy. Many side missions to do besides 
 the main quest. A ton of humorous voice overs. Great locations. A perfect game that is under-rated 
 in my opinion in regards to how it's been rated low. It should get a 10 plus in my book. Oh, and 
 the dog is sweet!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: desyple
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 26, 2008 11:10 pm PT
Review:  Fable 2 was a great game but there were too many flaws that kept it from scoring AAA with me. One 
 of which being the fact that it had a great story but a letdown of an ending. It started off amazing 
 but after a while the story kept regressing instead of progressing. Another letdown was the fact 
 that the multiplayer was hyped that you could be able to be whatever you want in your friends world 
 with your character. This is not true whatsoever. You cannot even use your own character in a friends 
 game. You cannot get treasure, clothes, or weapons. YOU can only get gold and experience as a henchman. 
 This was a total letdown. Lastly their are a lot of glitches in the game which is very annoying. 
 The good is great beginning, amazing solid immersive game play, immersive towns and many side quests. 
 But these side quests can be annoying since many times you must complete them before completing 
 the main quests. All in all good game but not all its cracked up to be. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Arayn93
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 26, 2008 11:25 pm PT
Review:  Fable 2...
  Short story and many bugs prevent this game from being great.
  Fable 2 has its flaws, we all know that... But through easy and refreshing combat system the game.
 
  The idea of working to get gold is great and when you buy some set of clothes you really feel 
 like you've worked hard for something.
  But the bugs and short story was the major reason i didn't like this game. 
  
  
  Overall...
 
  Fable 2 is a good game if you haven't played it in a while and have a whole afternoon free.
  
  
  eight point five eight point five eight point five
  eight point five
  eight point five
 
  eight point five
  eight point five
  eight point five
  eight point five
  eight point five
  eight point five
  eight point five
  eight point five
  eight point five
 
  eight point five
  
  eight point five
  eight point five
  eight point five
  eight point five
  eight point five
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rafe01
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 26, 2008 2:54 am PT
Review:  Okay Fable Two is great game and all but the hype for this game was way to high... But still for 
 a game that had couple of bugs still did pretty good. Yes.. the story was weak ... ONLY if u don't 
 pay attention to it, allot of people they started bashing on the story before they even understand 
 the concept of the story. You really have to get into the whole fable world to get into the story. 
 
  Overall i would rate the story at least 7.8/10,
  there are parts of the story that they haven't really revealed witch allot people are waiting for.
 
  Fable Two PROS & CONS
  
  PROS : Fable Two has features that most rpg doesn't have.
  Fable Two COOP
  The Dog
  Free roam .. but limited.
  
  CONS : The game needs more work.
 
  COOP henchmen sucks.. everybody knows that.. Gamers who are defending that have there own opinions 
 about it. I know Lionheads did that in purpose... Or maybe its an excuse. Who knows... either way 
 we all know having to use a henchmen in your friends world is pretty dumb..... Like obviously you 
 would want to show off your character to your friend instead u have to be a henchmen.. and its not 
 really dynamic coop the loading takes about 1-2mins to load.
  If they would want a Player to have a full multi-player experience just like PM said, then they 
 would have 2 heroes in a game... instead they went with the henchmen.... But this does not ruin 
 fable 2. Games like Fable 2 are made for single player experience so we should at least thank them 
 for putting up coop.. even tho it wasn't that fun.
  
  
  In my opinion Fable 2 does deserve an 8 or even an 8.5.
  People rate this game too low because 
 they have way to high expectations for the game but it its not their fault, its Peter fault for 
 over hyping his game once again.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ridiculous_rap
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 25, 2008 8:43 pm PT
Review:  I'm being totally subjective here and being a fan of the first Fable I was pretty disappointed 
 by Fable II. The revenge story of Fable II and characters were lacking. After about ten hours of 
 playing Fable II I couldn't stay interested anymore, but I made the push to complete the game. 
 
  
  Maybe the game wasn't fun to me because I had chosen to be a female goody-two-shoes hero that later 
 became as huge as Andre the giant (Those pies sure are fattening! Make sure you eat celery) . However 
 I was able to be attractive to all towns people. 
  
  Story is very important in RPGs, It helps you feel your characters. Most of the dialogue and voice 
 acting was mundane and lacked character emotions. With the exception of Hammer's humor, and maybe 
 Reaver's conceited behavior. 
  
  Another thing that didn't make the game fun was the fighting system. I could careless about upgrading 
 all other abilities except for time control, shock, brutal styles, physique, and toughness. Just 
 how would you collect those disappearing experience orbs in time while enemies rush to attack you? 
 
  
  Just for kicks I had my female hero marry a whore and then proceeded to have unprotected sex with 
 her. Well, good thing I only borrowed this game, it would be a waste of my sixty bucks! But hey 
 don't take my word for it, go rent game and play it for yourself, you might find something in it 
 addictive and fun. :] 
  
  I recommend this game as a rental only! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gears90
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 25, 2008 6:02 pm PT
Review:  Fable 2 is one of my favorite games. There is so much to do, and a lot of it isnt related to the 
 story or even side quests, its just fun to goof around.
  
  This game is very different from fable 1, but it keeps the basic formula. You start off as a young, 
 poor child. Then there is a tragedy, but a kind person rescues you. You later find out that you 
 are part of a heroic bloodline, and have abilties that few others have. And of course there is 
 a big bad guy trying to destroy the world at the same time. It is a very simple story, but its 
 not as bad as people say, and its not at all what the main focus of this game is. 
  
  As for gameplay, I like it a LOT more than Fable 1. In fable 1 i felt like i had to choose: ranged 
 or melee. Now since they are both on a seperate button, both are very accesible making combat easier 
 to get into and change. As for the will (magic) powers, it is also good, but there are fewer spells 
 than fable 1. I do find however that i only choose a couple to use anyway so its no big deal.
 
  
  So what is fable 2 all about really.
  Sure you have the epic story were you fight all kinds of enemies, and there are a wide variety 
 of side quests from treasure hunting to helping a grandmother find her grandson. But there is so 
 much more to fable than that. Like Fable 1, you have choices. And, depending on the choices you 
 make, you will lead a wicked or a good life. If you are good, it makes your appearance better. 
 The people of albion will like you more too, which can be a good thing. If you are evil, you will 
 get uglier, and the people of Albion will literally run screaming when they see you. Unlike Fable 
 1 though, the choices are legitamately hard to make. I always start with an evil character, and 
 it is really easy to be evil. But then i play as a good character, and i seriously had to really 
 think about some of my choices. For example, there is one part where you are forced to choose between 
 making yourself old and ugly, or another person. Obviously if you are following a good path you 
 should choose the first, but i didnt want to be old, so i decided to give up a couple good points, 
 because i couldnt do it. The choices also affect the world too. By making evil choices, the world 
 becomes a dark and scary place, but making good choices makes it a bright and happy place. This 
 game probably has some of the best morality system i have seen in a while. There is also a new 
 purity or corruption scale, but that doesnt affect much but you appearence. And at the end of the 
 game, there is one major decision you will have to make.
  
  Perhaps my favorite part of Fable is just the sense of freedom i get. I love just goofing around 
 in the world. There is so much to do that has nothing to do with being a hero. You can get married 
 and have kids, who absolutely idolize you. You can buy almost every single building or stall, and 
 rent them out to make money. You can make villagers like you, or fear you. You can play pub games. 
 You can work to earn money. Jobs consist of little mini games mostly, that usually just involve 
 pressing a button at the right time. Or you can get bounty hunter jobs, where you track down and 
 kill various creatures. You can also get hired as an assassin. And if all those features isnt enough 
 for you, you can always go crazy and kill everyone in town. 
  
  There are also many stores scattered across Albion where you can buy different kinds of items ranging 
 from weapons to potions to furniture. 
  
  There is no "level" system, but you earn experience from fighting enemies, that you can put towards 
 melee, range, or will abilities, all with their own subcategories.
  
  Also, one of the best new features to the game is the dog. It is a great companion that will follow 
 you the entire game. It can help in combat, and will find dig spots and treasure chests. Its appearence 
 is reflected by your own. 
  
  There are some minor flaws, but none that take away from the experience. Things like if you highlight 
 a villager to talk to, when you go to get away from them there status bar i guess you could call 
 it at the top of the screen will sometimes not go away. The combat can get slightly repetitive, 
 but it is still very fun, and not bad enough where you cant stand it.
  
  Graphically, I think this game is gorgeous. There is a real good fantasy feel to this world, and 
 it all looks stunning.
  
  So to sum it up, Fable 2 is an amazing game, that has countless features, and very few flaws. This 
 was just the start of the things you can do in Fable, and is a great game that no 360 owner should 
 miss out on.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: SSBFan12
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 25, 2008 2:37 pm PT
Review:  In this amazing, fun, and alittle strange game you pick if you are a boy or a girl. It deosn't 
 matter which one you pick they will still have the same story. This game is just like the sims. 
 You can get marry even if you are a guy you can marry a guy. It is easy to marry just impress them 
 by dancing and after that buy them a ring. There is alot of things to do in the game. There is 
 a story. The story is about finding the guy who killed your sister if you are a guy or brother 
 if you are a girl. There are other side quests that you can do like be a model for a sculptor or 
 sacrifice souls to the temple of shadows. The game is open world and you can do nice stuff and 
 become good, you can do evil stuff by killing people and restricted the police fine, or you can 
 stay nuetral and carry through out the story. The game deos have weapons that you can use such 
 as a sword or a arrow. You can also upgrade weapons. There are will, strength, and other powers 
 you can use to help you beat the game. For will you can buy magical powers. Strength it helps you 
 take out enemies faster. And the other powers are to help your speed and accuracy. The game has 
 good sound and great graphics but the side quests are really dule.
  
  The good of the game is that plenty to do. Great sound and graphics. The story mode is really lengthy. 
 
  
  The bad of the game is that the side quests are really dule to play.
  
  Overall this game is for people who like the sims and who like RPG games. I think this game will 
 be a good game for fans who like Magical games. I give this game a 9.5 outta 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kmasterflex3128
Rating: 5.5
Date: Nov 25, 2008 11:59 am PT
Review:  So many people were so excited about fable 2, and so was I. I pre-ordered it, and got it on the 
 morning it came out. After playing the game, my response, a resounding "meh."
  
  First of all, for the game that focuses so much of the moral dilemma, the game has absolutely no 
 appreciation for the shade of grey. You are usually given two choices, and one is good and the 
 other is bad. That's it. Your action is either perfectly angelic or completely evil. 
  
  But the bigger problem is the fact that this game offers zero freedom. I mean really, think about 
 it. If i am the ultimate evil dude, shouldn't i be able to start up my own criminal organization? 
 If i own every property in the area, shouldn't i be able to reform the town by turning a residential 
 area into a commercial area? If I am filthy rich, shouldn't I be able marry **** load of women, 
 have them all stay in one house (without having them complain of course. im rich, **** get over 
 it.) and have super orgy every night?
  
  While we're at the subject of marriage, lets talk about this for a second. One of my favorite reviewer 
 Ben Crowshaw said this: " (in Fable 2) You can get married... But why would you want to?" This was 
 exactly what it felt like to me. I mean every damn characters in the game looks the same anyways, 
 so you wouldn't feel emotionally connected to any of the characters. Your kids don't do much neither 
 besides follow you around asking for gifts. And you don't even get to see anything while your boning 
 your wife. Ok, so the third point might not be too convincing... but my main point is that there 
 is no benefit to marrying someone. Sure, they give gifts sometimes. Sure, sometimes you get a quest 
 or two from your family. But overall, there is really no point in marrying someone in the game. 
 
  
  My final complain about the game is that it is SHALLOW. Everyone you meet in the game are completely 
 two dimensional. They either like you or don't like you. And if they don't like you, just flex 
 your muscle in front of them, and next thing you know, they will want to marry you. This was not 
 the intuitive life simulator i was promised. 
  
  But since we're talking about this game's shallowness, lets talk about the dog shall we? I read 
 in all these reviews that this canine element is the biggest plus in the game. No it's not. This 
 is not a dog, but a metal detector. You can't train him (for those of you that say "YES YOU CAN," 
 reading a book to a dog is NOT training) , can't do much with him other than playing catch (which 
 gets old really really quickly) , and ultimately i get no emotional connection with this dog. This 
 dog element is the shallowest thing i have ever seen in all games, and i cannot believe that so 
 many people are responding so well to it.
  
  If you read this far, I thank you. And if you disagree with me, i dont think i can change your 
 mind. But really think about it. Did Lionhead fulfill all of their promises about delivering the 
 next great life simulation action RPG? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zenorama
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 24, 2008 9:21 pm PT
Review:  This game is very fun indeed... but very easy. I got all the achievements except the wishes, my 
 first time through the game. It's really fun to interact with other people, give them gifts and 
 all but the sad thing is, if you play to much you WILL get either the red ring, or the E-74 error 
 much like the red ring... If someone would be looking at this right now and thinking if he/she 
 should buy this game, i say you should rent it, try local retailers like blockbuster or Hollywood... 
 i recommend you try gamefly because you get a free 2 week subscription that is if you put your 
 credit card in and you cancel the membership when your 2 weeks are complete... if your feeling 
 confident just buy it, you may be disappointed at first because of easy game play and the whole 
 evil/good deal... but yeah this game is great but it'll be one of those games when your finished 
 you would want to sell it... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jessevaldovinos
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 24, 2008 7:58 pm PT
Review:  the game is great. great graphics. great innovation. but it could get a bit difficult like another 
 lionhead game Black & White. but when you learn the ropes it is worth while. some parts of the 
 game became quite a bit tedious like wood cutting and smithing. camera angles sometimes became 
 problems. the gameplay in itself may become hard to follow if you are a begginer because it doesnt 
 follow the format of other rpgs. the money situation could also be really easy if u are a determined 
 player. money is not all that hard to obtain. this games allows alot of creativity but also leaves 
 me asking for a bit more. but maybe other games set that bar too high to forget all about the gameplay. 
 despite my criticism i really enjoy the game and can play for  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Stevie_Q
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 27, 2008 5:00 pm PT
Review:  Peter Molyneux's reputation often precedes him, and rightly so. Molyneux is notorious for promising 
 the world and not delivering. It happened with Fable, and many thought that it would happen with 
 Fable II as well.
  
  Fortunately, it hasn't. That's not to say that the game is perfect; far from it. But the game has 
 an undeniable charm. It's witty, wonderful, and a blast to play. The NPCs are amazingly dumb, but 
 they do their job and make you laugh. Your dog is often useless, but he's the best companion in 
 a game in recent memory. And the game is relatively glitchy, but you can't help but love it. In 
 some ways, it's a total let-down, but still I couldn't be much happier with Fable II.
  
  The game starts in your childhood. You are "Little Sparrow," or at least, that's what your sister 
 Rose calls you. You and your sister are orphans living in the town of Bowerstone. A trader is in 
 town, and a "magic music box" peaks your interest. These times serve as a tutorial. Your quest 
 to gather enough gold to buy the box teaches you about expressions, combat, and introduces you 
 to one of the most important characters in the game: your faithful companion, Dog.
  
  There idyllic times are not to last, though. Tragedy strikes, and the game cuts forward ten years. 
 Here your true quest begins. It is one of revenge, patience, and retribution, and although it is 
 not always invigorating, it does a good job with its non-linear approach and keeps you interested 
 long enough to see it through to the fascinating conclusion. You are tasked with gathering three 
 Heroes to help bring down the evil Lord Lucien and ultimately exact your revenge.
  
  A great main quest is fine and dandy, but side-quests are often as important to RPGs as the main 
 story is. The side-quests are where Fable II really shines. They are all very interesting and never 
 feel "slapped on." My favourite involved ghostly pirates, a secret island, and a treasure hunt! 
 It took longer than some chapters of the main quest, and was an absolute blast.
  
  Combat in Fable II isn't exactly deep, but there is no denying that it is fun. Each type of attack 
 is assigned to a button; X controls melee, Y is ranged, and B is magic. While it may seem like 
 this is too simple to work, it's actually superb. If you hold down a button, it generally charges 
 up the attack. A charged melee attack is called a flourish, and is an unblockable and extremely 
 powerful blow. Holding Y will zoom in with your ranged weapon, be it pistol, crossbow, or rifle. 
 Finally, holding B will increase the spread, power, and longevity of your magic. In addition, you 
 can assign a different magic attack to each level of power. For example, you could have Confusion 
 on level one to stun your enemies while you charge up a more powerful attack to take them out. 
 Combat is fluid, fast and fun. It's never been so easy to hack through bandits, wraiths, or balverines.
 
  
  The game is far more than a hack'n'slash RPG, though. It's a life-sim, too. The world is chock 
 full of hundreds of NPCs, and your hero can chat up, marry, or even kill any of them (except the 
 children, of course.) Unfortunately, our hero has an unfortunate case of muteness, and has to communicate 
 through a series of wordless expressions. To choose an expression, you pull up the expression wheel 
 with the right bumper, then choose a specific category, like Romance, Scary, or Social. From there 
 you can choose a specific expression.
  
  The NPCs around you will react to your expression in three different ways. Each NPC has bars that 
 change depending on their opinion of you. The bars are funniness, love, and fear, and they go up 
 or down depending on your expression. For example, if you growl at them, their fear bar will go 
 up, or if you flirt with them, their love bar will go up.
  
  It's not exactly a deep system, but it is undeniably fun to fart loudly in the middle of the town 
 square and see little smiley faces pop up above all the town members' heads. It is far too easy 
 to manipulate, though. One quest has you trying to woo a young barmaid into falling in love with 
 you so you can marry (or dump) her. I thought that it would be a long-term quest - I'd have to 
 come back to the bar every day for several days, slowly build up her trust, slowly have her fall 
 for me.
  
  Not so. I gave her a few thumbs up, a couple smiles, and bam! she was falling all over me, practically 
 begging me to marry her.
  
  We've all heard a lot from Molyneux about one other social element. The dog. Your dog is one of 
 the greatest canines ever to walk the earth. He lives to be about 30 years old by the game's conclusion, 
 shifts species at points throughout the game, and has a sensational nose for treasure. All joking 
 aside, the dog does play a very important role in Fable II, perhaps even more than Peter Molyneux 
 expected. He is your premier emotional connection to Albion, always at your side, barking excitedly, 
 helping you find goodies, and even fighting baddies with you. He's a bundle of joy, and who doesn't 
 love a cute little puppy? Isn't he just a cute wittwe guy? Yes he is! Yes he is!
  
  500 years after the first Fable, questing is apparently a not-so profitable profession. In fact, 
 questing will not earn you any money at all. In what I suppose is an effort to add realism to their 
 game, Lionhead Studios has forced you to work for your money - quite literally, work. You must 
 chop wood, forge swords, or serve drinks at the bar to earn your keep and buy stuff. They're simple 
 minigames - a meter appears above your head, and you must press the A button when the marker is 
 in the right place.
  
  It's incredibly menial and boring, so fortunately there is an easier way. You can buy every building 
 in the Fable universe - every house, store, or stall that you see. You can adjust prices at stores 
 and choose to rent out your house that you aren't currently living in. Every five minutes, you 
 will earn cash from your real estate empire. This continues when you're not playing, so as you 
 can imagine, money will soon be no object for your hero - which, in my opinion, is the way it should 
 be.
  
  Fable II has a very unique graphical style. It discards the traditional greys and browns that populate 
 far too many games these days, instead opting for a vibrant colour palette of brilliant greens 
 and deep blues, and the result is absolutely gorgeous. The screen practically crackles with energy. 
 Running through the world of Albion is a feast for the eyes, from the rain-soaked coast to the 
 lively forests to the sunny plains and farms. The world is incredibly vibrant and alive, not at 
 all static and never lifeless. There is a great attention to detail. Birds sing in the Brightwood 
 Forest and rain splatters down upon the Bandit Coast. The weather and night/day effects are brilliant. 
 There is an internal clock that keeps track of the time, and as the time of day changes, so will 
 the world. Shops close and open, people leave the bar for bed, and the animals species seen changes 
 depending on the weather or time. It all adds up to a very immersive experience.
  
  There are some technical hold-ups, though. NPCs will walk right through each other and you or your 
 dog can sometimes get stuck in environmental objects, like rocks or trees.
  
  The game is a treat for the ears, too. Fable II features a beautiful musical score. From the soothing 
 melody that plays while you flit through grassy plains to the suspenseful beats that add tension 
 in the eerie swamps of Wraithmarsh, the music fits the game's moods very well and contribute to 
 the atmosphere greatly. Fable II's voice acting is also pretty good. It suffers from some mild 
 "Oblivion-itis," where dozens of NPCs sound exactly the same, but as a rule it's very good. In 
 particular, the narrator and Theresa, voiced by Zoe Wanamaker, is great.
  
  You are likely going to get a couple of play-throughs here. I played through once as a good character, 
 and once as an evil one. There are lots of secrets to find and side-quests, so despite a relatively 
 short main quest, a play-through should last at least a dozen hours, and likely more, provided 
 you don't rush. There is also co-op, but you can't bring your own character into a friend's game, 
 and a terrible camera practically renders the mode broken. It's really not worth your time. You're 
 better off sticking to your own world.
  
  Fable II stumbles along the way, but ultimately it achieves its goal. It's a hilarious, engaging, 
 and fun RPG that manages to suck you in completely. It's a unique hack'n'slash, life-sim hybrid 
 that should be experienced by most 360 owners. It's not for everybody. You won't find a deep or 
 innovative experience here, but it is fun, something that is slowly but surely being discarded 
 in pursuit of better graphics or technical achievements.
  
  If you immerse yourself in the world of Albion, you will be richly rewarded. Don't come in looking 
 for a straight-forward, set-path RPG. There's more to this game than swords and monsters. You're 
 supposed to raise families, get jobs, interact with villagers, and watch your hero grow and flourish. 
 You will get out of Fable II what you put into it, and if you invest the time and effort, the rewards 
 are oh-so-sweet. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dan_scfc
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 24, 2008 10:08 am PT
Review:  The original Fable was brilliant, even revolutionary in some ways. However, it was hard not to 
 be disappointed. The world wasn't all that big and there was plenty of mechanical issues.
  
  Peter Molyneux, lead designer at developer, Lionhead Studios, recently said that he thought 
 that every game he has released people have felt disappointed, until Fable II. He was right.
  
  You start Fable II as a young boy, set 500 years after the events of the original. When you 
 play as a young boy, this basically acts as a tutorial for to learn the basics of Fable II. The 
 combat system is really simple. X is your melee attacks. Simply repeately tap it to string together 
 attacks. Y is your ranged attacks, guns and crossbows. Again it works really similar to your melee 
 attacks. B is your magic attacks, there are a massive catalogue of magic attacks, Shock to Inferno, 
 Raise Dead to Time Control and plenty more. This brilliant combat system makes fighting in Fable 
 II an absolute joy. 
  
  As you fight, little orbs of EXP will drop to the floor, simply hold RT and all the orbs close 
 to you will rush towards you and be adding to your EXP bank. There are 3 types of abilities, Strength, 
 Skill and Will. As long as you have the required amount of EXP in that field of ability, you can 
 buy new skills such as a better accuracy with your gun or a new magic attack. You can improve your 
 skills which run on a 5 star system. Once you reach 5 stars in a certain spell or skill you can 
 no longer improve that skill.
  
  Fable II allows you complete control over your character. The decisions you make will affect how 
 your character looks and how the people of Albion view you. You can have a family with a wife, 
 own a house, decorate that house with the finest furniture, get a job as a local blacksmith, woodcutter 
 or assassin and buy business like an alchamist store or a fruit stall. Fable II also features character 
 morphing. This means as the game progresses, the decisions you make affect how your character looks. 
 For example, setting the rent to +100%, can cause you to become corrupt and local people will not 
 like you as you will be ripping them off. Killing people and making decisions that are evil will 
 cause you to become evil. Become full evil can even make a pair of horns sprout out of the top 
 of your head. Focusing your EXP on Strength will make your character become muscular, focusing 
 on skill will cause your character to become taller and focusing on Will will cause your body to 
 have glowing blue like veins on your body.
  
  Even though you might feel something for your family, the main focus of your affection in Fable 
 II, is not even human, it's your dog. You will grow really affectionate of your canine friend as 
 he follows you everywhere. When your walking down a dark tunnel, knowing that something bad is 
 around the corner, it's nice to see your dog, sticking with you till the end.
  
  The story in Fable II is brilliant. It might not get you attached to the characters like GTA IV 
 did, however you will feel yourself being pulled in. Basically, the story starts with you and your 
 sister living in the slums of Bowerstone. You get your hands on a 'Magic Box', and wish that you 
 could live in the grand Castle Fairfax. Next thing you know you're being waken up and taken to 
 meet the owner of Castle Fairfax, Lord Lucien. He finds out that either you or your sister are 
 the fourth hero. He kills your sister and pushes you out of the nearest window. You wake up with 
 your dog licking your hand and a women you find out to be called Theresa, nurses you till your 
 a grown man. You then find out that Lucien is planning to activate the Spire, a tower that can 
 give great power to the one who activates it. You need to find the three other heroes to take down 
 Lucien and here starts the main quest of Fable II.
  
  Apparently, if you did nothing other than play the main quest in would take you 12+ hours. However, 
 you really should explore the breathtaking world that is Albion. There are plenty of side-quests 
 for you complete and Peter Molyneux said that it would take you 100+ hours to complete everything 
 in the game.
  
  However, Fable II is not flawless. It suffers from laggy menus. When you press LT to bring up the 
 expression wheel, it can take a few seconds to load up all the icons, which is really annoying. 
 However, in the days of post-NXE, I would recommend installing it to your Hard Drive, it reduces 
 noise and speeds up loading times. Like every large RPG game, it suffers from AI getting stuck 
 behind invisable objects and walls.
  
  If you let these minor bugs stop you from buying this masterpiece of a game, you really need to 
 get your brain examined. It is a revolutionary RPG which you will enjoy from the first time you 
 drop it in. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ExtremePhobia
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 24, 2008 9:50 am PT
Review:  It's time to return to Albion, the world of beautifully stylized environments, quirky villagers 
 and interesting sounding accents. If you enjoyed Fable or the Lost Chapters, this game takes many 
 of it's predecessors strengths and improves them - to the detriment of almost all other aspects.
 
  
  Fable 2 is, probably not surprisingly, a game of choices. Will you go here or there? Will you hurt 
 or help this person? Will you own the world or settle into your little tiny wagon and forsake worldly 
 possessions? With the exception of the last one, you really can do as you please. It is a rather 
 lively world where almost everything you do will have a penalty or a reward and in some cases have 
 both. For instance, you could have multiple spouses and children but don't let them find out about 
 each other or you could wind up a very lonely hero.
  
  Clearly the living part of the game is quite well done. You aren't forced to do anything you don't 
 really want to do. You can go strait on along with the story if you'd like and with a few exceptions 
 where you will need to do a side quest in order to gain recognition, you won't have to do anything 
 that deviates from the main story line.
  
  Unfortunately this freedom is a little useless because the story itself is decidedly short and 
 unrewarding and the combat involved equally so. In fact if you stick strictly to the story, you'll 
 only really be presented with perhaps two important choices that go beyond gaining good/evil and 
 corrupt/pure points. One will effect the appearance of your character (and in some cases of poor 
 loading may not even be noticeable) and the other comes at the end of the story and, provided you 
 want to play afterwards, only really has one decent choice.
  
  One of the neatest parts of the game is the dog, who moves and acts like a very good companion 
 and you can get quite attached too. At the same time it's easy to over look the dog and forget 
 he's there until he barks to gain your attention. You'll always be fascinated by the amount of 
 detail in the dog's animations and every now and then he'll remind you that he's there by doing 
 something goofy while you're doing an expression such as begging when you ask somebody back to 
 your place for a good time.
  
  Expressions are back and in grand style. There's a bunch of them that do a variety of different 
 things. Each one is good for certain types of people and for improving the way the townsfolk look 
 at you. While they are interesting to watch and have neat effects on the people around you, you 
 will find that in most cases you'll be doing the same ones over and over which will begin to get 
 boring after a little while. Still, all in all, it is a charming way of interacting with the characters 
 in the game.
  
  The combat is pretty simple. There is one button for each of the three disciplines of combat, Strength, 
 Skill and Will. Strength makes you hit harder take more damage or gives you small combo abilities 
 based on timing of button presses or whether you hold the button. Skill gives you more ranged damage 
 and abilities, like the ability to sub target, and a speed boost. 
  
  Will is broken up into eight different magical spells. With a few exceptions, like a spell to manipulate 
 time, the spells are only subtle variations of each other. For instance you could choose to cast 
 a lightning spell that brings down a column of electricity from the sky to strike one or multiple 
 targets or you could cast a fire spells that brings up fire from the ground to strike one or multiple 
 targets. Seeing as how there's very few cases where you could benefit from a change of element, 
 having multiple spells really only comes in handy based on how concentrated the damage is.
  
  The worst aspect of combat is death. You can not die. You'll be knocked unconscious and lose 
 any combat experience you have yet to collect (which falls on the ground until collected or you 
 are disabled) with the only real penalty being a scar. A scar will detract from you "attractiveness," 
 which is largely a useless number that only matter when you are trying to get a gift from someone, 
 and adds a scar somewhere on your body that you can see. In some cases the scars can even make 
 you look more interesting and hardened. Pain heals, chicks dig scars. Even a larger detractor from 
 this minor penalty is that if you don't like the scar, you can cover it up with clothing and you 
 no longer suffer the attractiveness penalty nor can you see it yourself. The last note is that 
 all of this can be avoided by simply finding or buying a Resurrection Phial which may not be dirt 
 cheap but are plentiful and pretty affordable.
  
  On the upside, all the things you can do on the side can be enjoyable and keep you entertained 
 for hours... though, for the most part, you'd probably be better off getting the Sims or Spore 
 than messing around with the morality of everything. Even the sides quests don't really make you 
 feel too involved in the world and it almost comes down to a dating/real-estate simulator where 
 your biggest decision is which spouse needs your attention more and whether or not you want to 
 look corrupt or want the economy of your town to flourish. Granted, while it may just be a sim 
 in a lot of cases, it IS quite a beautiful and charming one.
  
  The graphics are spectacular. The casting of spells can detract from frame rate slightly but you 
 won't notice it most of the time and when it happens, it doesn't really hamper the game play. The 
 world looks fantastic, both in nature and in towns. The architecture is quite nice in a lot of 
 cases and some buildings are very unique. The landscape is hand crafted, the water is nice and 
 the lighting really captures your attention. Fable 2 always manages to use light in incredible 
 ways that will never cease to make your jaw drop. You will never get bored of watching it filter 
 through the lives or how it lights up a deserted room through a broken window. While it's not the 
 first game to do it, it does it very well.
  
  The sound is pretty good. Everything has it's own sound and the voice acting is entertaining. The 
 sound effects are pretty right on and the dog sounds like a dog should sound, right down to the 
 way it's paws patter on the ground as it races after you. Unfortunately, one of the original Fable's 
 strong points falls short here. The incredibly charming and memorable melodies of the original 
 have disappeared. Even with sound effects low and voices off, the only tune that has managed to 
 get stuck was the loading screen tune, which is good considering the loading times can be a little 
 lengthy. Otherwise, you won't find your attention being grabbed by a strong melody which will cut 
 back on the Fable feel. This is particularly unfortunate because if the musical spread of the game 
 was more interesting it may have made almost every aspect more engrossing. As it stands, it does 
 little to counter-act the more mediocre parts of the game, like the combat.
  
  When you get to the end, you'll probably feel rather unfulfilled and on subsequent play throughs 
 will change your choices in every way outside of the story. All in all, Fable 2 isn't an awful 
 game and will more than likely entertain you for a while but considering it's length, even including 
 replayability, it should probably be reserved for a rental and perhaps rerental than for actual 
 purchase.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dcraine
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 24, 2008 8:14 am PT
Review:  I loved this game. To me, this is what an adventure game should be. A lot of action along with 
 a compelling story line and a cool ending. There is so much in this game it's hard to know where 
 to start. The game looks and sounds great. The voice acting is wonderful. The story itself (though 
 it falls into the classic revenge tale category) is really well constructed and keeps you wanting 
 more. Although you could zip through the primary story line pretty quickly, the great thing is 
 that a lot of the side quests have equally interesting story lines. So, you'll find yourself going 
 though a bunch of side quests, not only to gain the cash and experience points, but also just for 
 the sheer fun of it. The ending of the main quest is a great "moral dilemma" in the form of a choice. 
 The force of the dilemma really comes through as a result of how deeply the game draws you in during 
 the game play. The only warning I would give with this game is that it is "extremely" addictive. 
 You can fritter away hours without even realizing it. But boy is it fun!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jeckstrom135
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 24, 2008 7:53 am PT
Review:  Okay, I've spent about 25 hours playing this game so far, and I have to say, it was worth the wait. 
 There are next to no glitches in the game, and the gameplay is absolutely amazing. I only had one 
 major problem with the game, but I'll talk about that later. The graphics and visuals are absolutely 
 amazing, and like the old Fable, it continues to have the humorous dialogs, fun fights, awkward 
 situations, and vibrant colors, all in the midst of carnage and bloodshed that makes Fable truly 
 fun. The story is amazing, and the fights are amazing. However, there is one major issue I have 
 with the game that I'm about to go on a rant about. It's the only thing I really found wrong with 
 the game.
  I finally finished the main story of Fable 2, and I have to say it was a disappointment. I just 
 spent +-25 hours, while doing side-quests (the main story really isn't that long) , of my life playing 
 this thing, and I was expecting a huge boss fight, or the return of Jack of Blades, or something 
 equally as epic. However, the only thing I was greeted with was Thereasa telling me to basically 
 make a wish and get out. That might have actually been pretty cool, had the choices not been as 
 stupid as the ending. You are given 3 choices: Resurrect the people who built the spire, resurrect 
 your family and dog, or get a lot of money. The third choice is obviously stupid because you make 
 more money than you could ever spend in the game, just by rent from owning property. The first 
 choice is just as pointless. What could you possibly get from resurrecting everybody, Good points?. 
 I can get good points from donating the money I make from rent to the temple of light. The only 
 decent choice is to resurrect your dog (Which consequently resurrects your family) . However, I 
 can't stay mad at the game for long. Finishing the main quest opens up a slew of new quests. I've 
 only had time to do two or three of them, but I'm looking forward to being able to play a lot more, 
 soon. Overall, I still give Fable 2 a 9.5/10.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: chex81
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 24, 2008 7:47 am PT
Review:  I was in the group of people who were excited prior to the original fable only to be disappointed 
 by the lack of content promised. This time around i learned my lesson and set my expectations really 
 low, thankfully. Fable 2 does a good job of providing a fun experience in a fantasy-esque world. 
 There is a lot to do in the world and tons have been improved from the first game. The combat is 
 a real treat this time around, a great attention of detail was focused on battles and making them 
 as enjoyable as possible. Majority of the magic returns from the original, with a easy design element 
 that levels the mage combat in 5 different classes (each increased by purchasing) . The story keeps 
 things interesting but its nothing memorable in my eyes. The NPC interaction has been improved 
 greatly and adds a lot of character and replay value to the game. It's a blast to play but ends 
 on the very short scale, even if you complete most of the side quests... and its a nice touch that 
 they implemented constant quests after the games done for replay value. However, where the game 
 succeeds it also loses some strength. Its very easy to completely max out your character in a single 
 10 hour run through. You can fully upgrade your Strength, Magic and Will making it almost pointless 
 to play through a second time... and because the combat is where the game gains most of its fun, 
 its a shame. The visuals are very nice and colourful, but there are some glitches that cause popping 
 and clipping... but it can be overlooked. It was a fun time that every 360 gamer should experience, 
 but at $60 for 10-15 hours to witness almost everything the game has to offer... its hard to recommend 
 hands down. Wait for a price drop or find cheap if possible. 
  
  
  Pros
  - Landscape a lot more open than Fable 1
  - Nice visuals
  - Fun Combat
  - NPC interaction 
 works really well
  
  Cons
  - Levelling too easy and quick
  - some clipping issues
  - Story is meh
  - replay value is a hit and miss
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: AdaManTiuM_X
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 24, 2008 12:38 am PT
Review:  Even though I haven't played the original fable since I beat it back in 2004, when I popped in 
 Fable 2, I felt an eerie sense like I've done this before. The environments, characters, combat, 
 and story all felt the same. Heck, even the graphics felt identical. The game instantly brought 
 back feelings I had when I played the original 4 years ago, but this wasn't completely a bad thing. 
 For one, the combat in this game is pretty satisfying; the use of a 5-tier will system causing 
 massive amounts of damage is awesome. Also being able to marry, buy real estate, kill random people 
 is all fun as well, but it wears thin pretty quick. I played the game enthusiastically at first, 
 but as time went on, I noticed I began the care less and less about the world; I was playing just 
 to beat the game, and it wasn't very fun. The demon doors, gargoyles, and even the dog all felt 
 like useless pursuits after a while. Another thing that plagued this game were the load times; 
 they really broke the game down into much smaller levels which took away from the games sense of 
 being in one giant world. Because of this, although the game world claims to be 10x larger than 
 Fable 1, it really felt about the same size to me. This game could have been so much more; it has 
 a great art direction, sound, combat, and dialogue; but it felt like it reused too much content 
 from the previous Fable. As of now I don't know if I'll even play a Fable 3 if it comes out; Lionhead 
 would really have to blow me away with something new and fresh. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: volvo500
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 24, 2008 12:31 am PT
Review:  Fable 2's a great game which is all about choices girl or boy, good or evil, fat or thin are some.
 
  You start of Fable as a young kid called Little Sparrow who lives and the streets with their sister 
 Rose. You'll go round the town earn some money to buy a magical wishing box. To earn your money 
 you have to do small odd jobs like finding a Hobo's beer bottle. Most of the time you'll be given 
 the dicision of good or evil with each choice changing who you will become or changing the world 
 around you.
  Once you grow up you begin your quest for vengence angainst the evil lord Lucien. The story can 
 be cheesey at times but that doesn't mean it's not emotional. 
  Making isn't like any other game as you go out and make money by getting a job. There are many 
 jobs in the world like blacksmith, woodcutter or bartender. If your more evil you'll come across 
 jobs you wouldn't find in a good world. Most of those jobs include killing someone but you could 
 become a slave trader. 
  Once you finished the story you can wander about the world getting more money and earning renown 
 to make yourself more famous. There so much choce in fable that it seams limitless. Well almost 
 limitless many of the things lionhead said you could do like go anywhere is somewhat true but it's 
 not limitless. And everytime you enter a new area it will have to load which makes it seam not 
 so much one world.
  The combat is one of the best bits of fable you can level up in any of the 3 fighting styles but 
 it's hard to just be a mage or just be a ranged fighter so you'll end up being a sort of hybrid 
 using all of them but you maybe better at somethings than others. All in all Albion is a hard place 
 to leave but it does fall a little short of what lionhead has been making us so hyped up about. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jimmygee123
Rating: 2.5
Date: Nov 23, 2008 9:41 pm PT
Review:  theres only one thing I have to say about this game and that its the biggest pile of plop ploppety 
 plop I have ever had the misfortune to play. Compared with other RPG's I have played are way better.
 
  
  People bang on about next gen consoling. I'm sorry give me a good old fasioned PC and a game of 
 Baldurs Gate anyday over this game.
  
  Im sorry but i do not like being led by the hand and considering the game to be my mother. there 
 was almost no freedom to wander off and explore. you could vault off things but only when the game 
 told you that you could. 
  
  You character never spoke but instead used gestures. I mean is this the realism that we have cried 
 out for ??
  
  This game has fancy sword swinging but thats about it, oh and pub games hahahaha yeah cant forget 
 those now can we. Yeah thats what we'll do from now on if we bring out a game that isnt too great 
 just stick a bit of gambling in there and that should make everything ok. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AnalogOdyssey
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 14, 2009 5:14 pm PT
Review:  First off You cannot die in this game so... you can basically mash on the attack button the whole 
 time and use powerful spells and win easily... You can do optional stuff like get married, buy 
 clothing (armor is gone) , play games, and do repetitive jobs to get money... Overall the graphics 
 are really beutiful in this game and are really interesting... The towns are cool.... The load 
 times are horrendous and worse than the first... there are bugs in the game and The ending is basically... 
 Save your dog, save 1,000 people that died, or get 100,000,000 gold.... really just youtube it 
 if you want to see the ending because it sucks and ends abruptly.... you kill Lucian with a gun 
 or Reaver shoots him.... The expression system is broken in the game just like the first one and 
 I wish I could actually talk to the people instead of flicking them off or flirting or whatever.... 
 The games dog is interesting and digging for treasure is fun.... personally this game is a great 
 rental.... but only the hardcore should buy it although the side quests will give you an extra 
 10-20 hours to the game instead of the 6 hour quest..... so it all depends on you and how you like 
 the series, but I though it was repetive, short, and needs something other than an expression system... 
 oh yeah the co-op mode is bad and you can only get gold from it and cannot visit your friends house 
 or any of that..... I recommend it though for casual gamers and it is great in some ways with property 
 ownership, etc... just not a game to challenge gamers... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Delro333
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 23, 2008 10:21 am PT
Review:  For some gamers Fable 2 is no stranger. For those who haven't played Fable 1 (Like me) Fable 2 
 comes as no big shocker. Fable 2 had many promises made around it just like the previous installment. 
 Most of those promises don't follow through.
  The story of Fable is an obvious one, you play a boy or girl who is the last true hero of Albion. 
 Being a hero is in your blood giving you extraordinary powers. In fact these powers are so good 
 that it makes the game a breeze to play through. Anyway, you set out to destroy an evil genious 
 whose bent on enslaving the world just to get his family back. Your pissed off not only becuase 
 he wants to destroy all of Albion, but he killed your sister. So naturally you set out on a variety 
 of quests, each day getting stronger, improving your powers to eventually kill him. Its a very 
 cut and dry story so I wont go into to much detail. Throughout the whole game you'll have side 
 quests available and various jobs. If you like pushing the "A" button a thousand times just to 
 make some cash, then you'll love the job mini games. They can be entertaining at first but in the 
 end they really are just a nusiance. Side quests range from killing bandits, to finding lost treasure. 
 All are easy, none really ground breaking.
  One aspect in Fable that sets it apart is that your deeds all effect how evil/good you become. 
 Its pretty cool to do evil deeds and see your character's appearance chance. Growing red lines, 
 scarring, getting horns, or flies around him. Theres also the ability to have a family. This is 
 an interesting idea, but ultimately wont change the way you play the game, so its pretty useless.
 
  Combat is where Fable 2 really steps up the bar. Its very satisfying to unleash pillars of electricity 
 on your foes and watch them turn to skeletons. Combat is mapped to your 2 colored buttons on your 
 control. X is melee B is magic and Y is ranged attack. Its a very simple mechanic that works well 
 and the magic really stands out becuase of your ability to customize what you cast out, and how 
 much damage it will do. So theres alot to play with there. Weapons are pretty bland as well as 
 the guns. Once you've seen a few, you've seen them all. Fable 2 is a button masher game, with no 
 real skill to master.
  The graphics have a certain style to them. Either you like the cartoony approach or you dont. However 
 the enviorments are beautifully lighten and theres a perfect amount of blush/bloom giving you a 
 glossy finish. The sound track is just average, once again its nothing to jump up and down about.
 
  
  Bottom line is, if you enjoyed Fable you'll love Fable 2. If your an RPG fan better rent this one 
 first because once you've seen what it has to offer theres not much to go back for. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: inuevan
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 23, 2008 7:34 am PT
Review:  If you've played the very first Fable game you'd know that it's very easy, very fun, and very short. 
 Four years later Fable 2 comes out. The fans where expecting a Action Fest RPG that makes KOTOR 
 look like dog crap. Well, they where wrong. Fable 2 is the first game with better graphics, new 
 stuff (kids, condoms, etc...) , you can choose to be a male or female, and a new villian. So in 
 other words this game should be called Fable 1.5, but oh well, the beutiful enviroments, the new 
 and improved combat system, and a totally new Albion make's this game a must try for any gamer.
 
  
  (BUYERS BEWARE, This game is no doubt one of the shortest game's out for the 360, so rent before 
 you buy)
  
  This game is also super easy and that could be a major letdown for other RPG players that are used 
 to Oblivion and Fallout 3, another flaw is Boss Battles. There is not one boss battle in this whole 
 game, not even the final fight has a boss battle and it's really really disapointing.
  
  So in other words, if your bored for the weekend, go out and rent this game, there's a very small 
 chance that you'd want to buy it, but please, rent it cause you never know, but I have to admit, 
 for a 6 hour game, this is the most fun i've ever had playing a game, its just that I dont want 
 to play through it again...
  
  Graphics 7.5/10
  Sound 9.5/10
  Replay Value 1/10
  Fun Factor 10/10
  
  Over all score
  
  8.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cosita46
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 22, 2008 10:11 pm PT
Review:  Okay, so to all the clinches in Fable 2 HUH!!!!! But this game was Great, it did take be some time 
 to get into it, but it did. I did have to start this game a 2nd time due to a corrupted file: ( 
 But i am very glad I did. Fable 2 is good but i thought they should have worked out on those clinches, 
 so sorry to keep stating this but it is the truth after waiting and waiting we got a Great game 
 with no other that Theresa telling us what to do, so why not the clinches Theresa? Back to the 
 game story line was good, the Graphics were Amazing, like the ship going out to sea and Bloodstone 
 was pretty cool. But Fable 1 was an Amazing game!!!!! Yes it is. Fable 2 lacks what Fable 1 has! 
 Amazing everything. So that is why I am not the biggest fan of fable 2, I wish the character could 
 have interacted with there children and enjoy the home, like sitting down in the chair? why not 
 In Fall out 3 he can? So to the next Fable try to not have so many issues and have the character 
 do more than Expressions. Games have come that far where they could have done this, but not! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dzyun
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 19, 2009 5:40 am PT
Review:  Like I said in the review deck that this reminds me alot of the first game. the thing is that the 
 designers fixed some thing but mess up others. Like the first game it was way to easy to get evil 
 points. In the first game it was way to hard to get fat but in this one it take four pies and you 
 are so FAT. I mean I was dieing and I ate like 6 pieces of meat and I was so fat. Also I was fighting 
 with the best weapons out there and the games said to get better equipment. Now on to the parts 
 I liked. The Dog it was the best idea ever only that it died. The day after I finished I played 
 GOW and I was looking for a dog to find the collectibles. Yatzee for Zero punctuation was right 
 about the game. The difficulty stays with you all during the game. And now that I am done with 
 the parts I liked and disliked I will talk about the beginning of the story. (SPOILERS) You have 
 the first part as a kid and that takes about forty mins. if you just want good things latter then 
 give the guard the warrants but if you want a place like Bloodstone early then give the warrants 
 to the crook. New thing in the knothole island you can sacrifice an innocent villager to get back 
 your dog which has maimed millions 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wookiemonster12
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 22, 2008 1:50 am PT
Review:  Fable 2 is one of the funnest games i've ever played and let me tell you now i've played a lot 
 of games.
  
  This what Fantasy RPG is all about you can do what you want when you want.
  
  let me start you off with the story
  
  you start out as a homeless little kid that needs 
 money to buy a music box that will give you one wish. you need 5 gold coins and to get them you 
 need to do small quests that will earn you one piece of gold. there are two ways to do each quests 
 the bad ways and the good ways. one quest you have to kill some bugs in a mans warehouse. a man 
 comes to the window and says he will pay you one gold coin if you smash the warehouse guys boxes.
 
  
  the good way is the kill the beetles and the bad way is the destroy the boxes
  
  if you do the good ways for most the quests when you return to Bowerstone it will be a more expensive 
 and upper class place and if you do bad it will be wrecked and there will be prostitutes everywhere
 
  
  later on you get a dog that will find treasure for you and help you do what you need to do
  
 
  all in all the game is one of the best i've played and you should by it because its addicting 
 and fun and its definitely worth buying it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DorkaDorka
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 21, 2008 10:29 pm PT
Review:  Fable I was the game that opened my eyes to the world that is RPG. The only other RPG I had played 
 was Oblivion, and that's not really for noobs to a complicated genre. So, needless to say, I was 
 excited for the ambitious sequel. Does it live up to the first, or sink under the rubble of over 
 hype?
  
  Story/Campaign (6/10) : The main storyline of the first, though simple, was still interesting and 
 relatively engaging, especially for newcomers. The second, unfortunately, is about as cliche as 
 it gets. Bad guy killed your sister as a child, you round up a gang of heroes, have revenge. No 
 substance, and it becomes painstakingly more clear as the story goes on that it isn't going to 
 get any better, and it doesn't. If it wasn't for the fact that the story brought you to relatively 
 cool places (if not mostly all the same) , it would be worthless.
  
  Side Quests (7/10) : The RPG-only section, side quests, isn't exactly much of a section. Unlike 
 games full of extra content, such as Oblivion, this game has very little else to offer. It has 
 some really cool quests, and even some quite disturbing or humorous ones, such as bringing down 
 the risen dead due to two morons who uncovered the necronomicon, or brigning back from the dead 
 a well known character from the first game. That's another thing the side quests uncover: jokes 
 from the first game. They are few and a bit weak, but will make annoying tasks like cleaning out 
 someones garden of all enemies much less boring.
  
  Gameplay (9/10) : The thing that nearly saves this game from crap-town is it's  
 controls and the actual fun in monopoly. You can not only kill enemies with ease, but also buy 
 out complete cities and gain tons of money for it. Sometimes this makes the game way too easy, 
 but it is enormously fun constantly buying shops trying to see how big you can get your pay check 
 up to.
  
  Overall: 7.5
  
  Yes, the game is fun - at first. But rent it, play through it, and try again. I say try, because 
 you might not be able too. It's definitely worth a rental, but anything more and you might find 
 the only thing bringing you back is the easy achievements that could easily have been gotten by 
 rental. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ascaryguy
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 21, 2008 2:34 pm PT
Review:  I loved this game as i was playing it but once i finished the game i thought there must be more 
 but no. There are two problems with this game two big problems. First the ending is just plain 
 aful and second there are very few side quests. I enjoyed the game while i was playing it but i 
 was expecting a big battle at the end but there was nothing. They need to make the main quest much 
 longer this was so short, i finished it in a day and i made another charter the next day and beat 
 it again with all the side quests and i am working on a third and final charcter so i can get all 
 the achivments which all sound simple enough i should probly be entirly finished with this game 
 on sunday. That will be all the achivements in 5 days. Also with the side quests there were not 
 to many and none of them were realy that hard. The game play is just like the first one which i 
 loved but i don't know if i want them to make a third the idea is starting to get old unless they 
 load the next game with tons of side quests and if they don't just quit on the ending then i'll 
 buy it other wise i am staying away 
::::::

::::::
UserName: silensmemorias
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 21, 2008 12:55 pm PT
Review:  Fable II is... oh... I don't know... lacking a good, rich story, but it does however, bring everything 
 that was promised in the Fable 1 to good effect.
  
  Graphics (8.0/10) :
  The landscapes are practically breathtaking. Everything seems to pop out at you, whether it be 
 an Olde-Britain-esque town or just nature itself, everything looks wonderful... not so much for 
 the characters. They aren't as well developed as the environments. There are also like... ten character 
 models, which, after seeing the same characters running around again, and again, and again, can 
 be rather boring. Other than that, the graphics hold up nicely, especially a game whose predessor 
 looked ancient on the original Xbox. So although the characters aren't that great, everything else 
 looks pretty great. Also, the cutscenes are pointless. Not only are they pretty average graphics 
 for a cutscene, they're pointless to watch and the only that is important to watch is the final 
 cutscene. Something I like and also dislike about the graphics is the cartoonish vibe it gives 
 off. Everything is overexaggerated. Feet. Hands. Heads. While this adds a sense of innocent to 
 the game, I like my RPGs to look realistic and brutal. Not like I'm playing a cartoon....
  
  Sound (7.5/10) :
  The sounds in the game are pretty good. Not the best, but they're good. 
 Like Oblivion, Lionshead has failed to hire enough people to make up a cast of unique sounding 
 and everyone sounds the same. Blandly so. The music, however is a different story. The score is 
 amazing and really adds the ambience that is needed to make this game feel like you're there. Everything 
 sounds pretty good, it's just that everything is constantly repeated. The same exact sound is constantly 
 looped and only important/unique characters have different voices. Not really entertaining when 
 you're constantly interacting with different townsfolk.
  
  Gameplay / Storyline (6.5/10) :
  The fighting mechanics in the game is a GREAT improvement since 
 the last game. It's so easy to seamlessly switch from blade, to gun, to will when the time calls 
 for it. The camera is a little wonky, especially in multiplayer. It's impractical while playing 
 multiplayer. The game is also a little too easy and a little too short. For an RPG, I expect a 
 main story of AT LEAST 20 hours... not 6. Not only is the story insanely short, it's boring, cliched, 
 and is at some points incomprehensible. It seems like the story was an afterthought in developing 
 the game. I mean, the beginning is flows rather well, but once you hit your teen years, the story 
 just falls flat on its face. There's also not enough customize options for your characters besides 
 a few sets of clothing, tatoos, etc. I want customization like Oblivion. But I can deal without 
 the customization options. The game is still overall tight and well developed, although there are 
 some hiccups and bugs. Interacting with the community is also a lot of fun. Trying to destory or 
 make a town's economy better is an interesting gameplay aspect. Real estate. Marriage. I mean literally 
 everyhting about the Fable II world is interesting and fun.
  
  Lastability/Multiplayer (8/10) : 
  Mutliplayer? Don't make me laugh. They shouldn't have even 
 added it to Fable II. You don't get to use your character. You can't use your dog. You can't use 
 your weapons. So what can you do? Ah. Yes. You can become increasingly frustrated with the ridiculously 
 wonky camera. While it is fun to run around with your friend and chat it up for a more casual gaming 
 experience, it's still pretty pointless. Now, the lastability. I was actually surprised by the 
 lastability for this game. It's way up there. I finished the game once and accidentally deleted 
 my file. Normally, I don't play RPGs twice. But I couldn't help from playing it again. And I enjoyed 
 it! AGAIN! I don't know why, but something about this game, maybe it's the choices, really make 
 you want to play the game again and again and see what you decide to do.
  
  Final Comment: 
  Fable II with it's non existent story, repitition of townsfolk (voices and appearances) , 
 and it's horrible multiplayer are, although not easily, overlooked by the amazing environments, 
 fun social interactions, and great combat. The game has an amazing feel of Olde Britain thanks 
 to it's music and graphics. I recommend a rent for non-hardcore RPGers and must have for hardcore 
 RPGers. It's a good game and is worth a look. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -Vappsen-
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 21, 2008 11:52 am PT
Review:  Finally the sequel is here, now we can play this "masterpiece", according to Mr. Peter Molyneux. 
 Well, masterpiece or not, it certainly did not live up to all the hype. I've been a Fable-fan since 
 the first Fable, and was greatly anticipating this game like it would be christmas/birthday/holiday, 
 all at one day. Offcourse I preordered it, got it the first launch day, and played all day. The 
 gameplay was awesome, and because of it awesomness, I completed the main story in 3 days. Yeah, 
 3 days. C'mon!? Already completed the main story? What "BS"... When I saw the credits, I felt empty, 
 alittle bit dissapointed, no, very dissapointed. The story was good, but too damn short. Gameplay 
 and music were great, graphics felt like 2004, but I still enjoyed this game so much. How long 
 did I enjoy it? 3-4 days. Yeah, no kidding. Atleast Fable 1 felt longer. Fable 2 could've been 
 so much more, harder for instance, normally it wasent hard at all. Free-roaming like Mr. Peter Molyneux 
 said? No. You couldn't go to the top of the mountain if you wanted, you couldn't go wherever you 
 wanted. And what about multiplayer? Yeah, the "multiplayer" was "great" ... No, for real, not good. 
 Premade characters, a representative char of the hosts char, both players have to be in the same 
 picture, interacting, bad.
  
  However, after all this complaining, yada yada, this is a good game overall. Start a family, be 
 a thief, nice or evil, this is a game to own. It's solid, hopefully Fable 3 will be longer. But 
 I'm still a Fable-fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: childofrock11
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 21, 2008 7:54 am PT
Review:  Fable 2 is a quasi-rpg in that it doesn't wield the full customization and stat building that a 
 game like Never Winter Nights or World of Warcraft does. Instead, it only allows you to customize 
 a limited amount of options that effect the way you do battle and the way your character appears 
 (although lightly when it comes to your appearance) . This was intended however and works so well 
 that you will be running around in Albion all day in order to see the outcomes of your actions.
 
  
  The game starts with a comical flair that is hard to resist right off the bat. The sense of pure 
 fantasy and magic is strong within this game, which is do to both the beautiful scenery and the 
 magnificent and charming musical score. The inhabitants of Albion are convincing in their day to 
 day routines and can be quite entertaining at times. A certain quest pops to mind, one in where 
 i was to hook a farmer's son up with a potential date... only to find out.... he didn't like "girls" 
 all that much.
  
  The games highlight is how the decisions you make effect not only yourself (and your appearance) 
 but the world around you. If you choose to be as heroic as possible the people of alibion will 
 praise and worship you, woman will flaunt themselves at you, and the kids will inspire to be like 
 you (literally) . Now on the other hand, if you choose to be as evil as you can be, people will 
 cower away from you, guards will feebilly attack you, and people will spit on the ground you walk 
 upon. Another great addition is your furry friend, a dog, that joins you on your adventure. You 
 quickly feel a strong emotional attachment to your pet as he helps by spotting hidden treasures 
 and finishing off downed enemies. This if funny considering that this dog is merely a digital piece 
 of artificial intelligence. Never the less, the developer's intended effect works well.
  
  The main story is surprisingly short but that does not mean the game ends there. There are hundreds 
 of adventures to partake in. These include things such as rescuing slaves (or enslaving them) , 
 to things as simple as taking a blacksmith job. The fun never ends in Fable 2 and that is where 
 the game truly shines.
  
  If you are a fan of fantasy and adventure, swashbuckling sword fights, and wielding powerful magic... the 
 Fable 2 is for you! But don't go in expecting the usual rpg treatment form this game. Fable 2 is 
 in a world all of its own! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Galahede
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 21, 2008 3:30 am PT
Review:  Some of the bugs take away from Fable II and I would rather review it after they get all the glitches 
 fixed. There's no doubt this game has a certain charm about it. The soundtrack, the voice acting, 
 and the visuals sink you deep into the story. It's as if you entered a pop-up fairy tale book and 
 you actually get to play inside.
  
  Combat is simple yet fun. You have a variety of choices from melee, ranged, and magic. You can't 
 really pick one over the other because certain instances will require more than one certain style 
 which I think is a bonus.
  
  I wish there were more clothes options as there is no armor in this game due to the era it's in. 
 Some of the augments that you get for your weapon seem to be a bit over powered and might need 
 some balancing.
  
  It's a wonderful world to play in but the main problem are the glitches. Take away the bugs and 
 you got a great game albeit a bit short. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ALazyMonkey
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 20, 2008 3:15 pm PT
Review:  Fable 2 is excellent. I could just leave it at that but I won't. Fable 2 is a game that has everything 
 from the first and includes all the things it should have had. The single player is fantastic and 
 long with many things to do. It has side quests that will keep coming back so it won't seem like 
 there is nothing to do once you beat the main storyline. There are jobs around the city which helps 
 you get money which you couldn't do in the 1st game. The characters look better and with many powers 
 and weapons to choose from. The world in massive and you can explore almost all of it. The demon 
 doors are still making you do random things and all you get in return is a rare object. Your dog 
 is fun but not what I expected. I felt the only reason I needed a dog around is to get the few 
 achievements that include it or finding the treasure. He doesn't do much in battle unless you knock 
 down the enemy and even then he sometimes doesn't attack them when knocked down. You can finally 
 have a child in this game but I had a bad first experience with the family thing because I went 
 to the spire and when I came out of it I went to see if my family still loved me after 10 years. 
 Apparently not because my wife seemed to never be in town and I could never find her, no matter 
 how long I checked. I thought she was just somewhere that I wasn't but when i was going to visit 
 my son who was now grown up into a child, he was glitchy too. He wouldn't move or have facial expressions, 
 he never liked me or hated me more when i did a expression, and when the glitch wore off and i 
 found my wife in town, she hated me for not talking to her and loving her for so long. I couldn't 
 though because she was nowhere to be found. She had a divorce, i got 100 evil points, I lost a 
 lot of money, some people took my kid away, and then I got a letter saying my ex-wife was killed 
 when she ran away to a new town. Other then that horrible mess this game is really fun with lots 
 of clothes, weapons, missions, and people to wear, use, do, and meet. The biggest disappointment 
 to this game is what the online is like. If you join someones party, YOU can't use your custom 
 character, you have to use a pre-made character. You cant go off screen from each other and that 
 made the camera feel weird. This game is definitely great with some minor bugs and annoyances but 
 you get over them. So buy it now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mattydman2
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 20, 2008 12:50 pm PT
Review:  Fable 2 is a fantastic RPG with great graphics, music, story and voice actors. Good and evil really 
 stand out in this game and you can choose your own destiny.
  
  Graphics- The graphics are pretty good, you can't actually complain much about it. Only thing i 
 could say is that it's not "wow" graphics, but they're not bad either and are good nevertheless.
 
  
  Music- This game has some great tunes to it, which are different for each area. You won't feel 
 that the music is too repetitive, cause you'll be getting on with the story. About that..
  
  Story- The story is great and goes really deep into morals and such. Times it can be funny, 
 times it can be devastating. Seriously some scenes will leave you speechless of how it can affect 
 you. You'll actually feel gutted if someone you like on the game dies, thats how good it is. Unfortunately 
 it is a bit short and could be longer.
  
  Controls- The fighting style is great, pressing x to use melee attacks, y to use ranged attacks, and 
 b to use will (magic in other words) . It's really fun to mix attacks and see what style suits you 
 the most. You can upgrade strength (melee) , skill (ranged) , and will to get your moves even stronger. 
 You move with the left analog stick and turn the camera with the right, which works well.
  
  Online- On xbox live you can see your friends and such as "orbs" moving around Albion. You 
 can also trade, and play co-op with your friends. Unfortunately you have to choose a character, 
 which ruins it a bit cause you can't bring your character into their world.
  
  Overall Fable 2 is a great game, with the slightest of flaws. If you're not into RPGs, rent it 
 to try it out. Like RPGs? This is for you then.
  
  Thanks for reading! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: killasuad35
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 20, 2008 12:10 pm PT
Review:  well what i have to say about this new addition to the fable collection is about time this game 
 was going dry and as a matter of fact i had just downloaded the first one just to catch up again 
 and it helped out alot because this one is far much better in the sence of battle seqences and 
 lovely new fiends and other ceachers and the weapondrey is a great addtion to the experence of 
 the mid evil day but dont get me wrong this no game of the week or anything but its great to have 
 on the game shelf and to pop in when u get boried of GOW2 or COD world at war yeah but dont depend 
 too much on it. Its not ure final fantasy at all its more like a mass effect look rather but it 
 is highly additive and if thats the only game u got its will meet ure needs at the moment so yeah... i 
 rated it 9 because its addtive if thats only game like me it on my self and its a good substite 
 game...... thankx readers 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wolls
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 20, 2008 10:51 am PT
Review:  Fable 2 is one of those games thats hard to describe why its so good. I dont know why this is but 
 as soon as you pick it up you will understand. Its got a lovable charm that draws you in from the 
 very start and keeps a grin on your face until the very end.
  The best thing about the game is the fact that your actions actually change the world. For example 
 if you invest in someones crazy idea to boost one of the towns it will change overtime from a bandit 
 ridden squallor, into a busselling thriving town. Another ting is how funny the characters are, 
 even though the protagonist doesnt speak, half the time you wont even notice it.
  The worst thing is.... hmmmmmm i guess the loading times when you leave an area but to be honest 
 its not really annoying.
  So basically if you have a Xbox 360 you ave no reason not to buy this game.
  
  "No your dog 
 cant enter the gladiatorial arena, health and safety you know" 
::::::

::::::
UserName: solgrifter
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 19, 2008 7:54 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay, graphics, a good story and chicken kicking, this game's got it all.
  It's easy to pick up and play and the freedom of play style is outstanding. If you're a magic user, 
 a gun slinger or just the hack and slash machine like me, Fable 2 has it if you want it. One of 
 the best games I've played this year. The world of Albion is easy to navigate and the interactions 
 with NPC's is great, weather you want to have "a good time" or have a good time killing them, it's 
 all up to you. There is even a set of missions to play AFTER you've finished the main story of 
 the game. Fable also allows you to start a family and run a business or just buy up all the realestate, 
 personally, I own a gypsy camp. Good, bad or good at being bad or bad at being good, it doesn't 
 matter: GET THIS GAME! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kluc05
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 19, 2008 5:33 pm PT
Review:  Most of us can remember the incredible innovative and simultaneously disappointing Fable. Fable 
 2 fixes many of the mistakes of the original, but leaves behind some of the more frustrating ones, 
 as well as creating some new ones.
  
  As usual, I will start with the good.
  
  The game looks and sounds amazing. The character design is a little odd, though intentionally so, 
 but the environments are amazing to look at, and the music is very good.
  
  Along the lines of sound, the voice acting is very good. If you're American like me, you'll never 
 get tired of hearing those British accents.
  
  The combat is the real star of the game. The lack of a magic meter makes magic incredibly fun to 
 use, and combining all three forms of combat (Melee, Magic, Ranged) is very satisfying. However, 
 the fact that you have to charge in order to use higher leveled spells is a little frustrating, 
 especially when you cash in so much experience to buy them, only to find you rarely get to use 
 them without taking a serious amount of damage in exchange.
  
  Now for the complaints.
  
  Gestures. Seem like they would be fun... and they are... for like 12 seconds. In an era of conversation 
 tree's where you choose what you want to say, and the good/evil intent behind it, gestures just 
 seem clumsy. There were many times I found that those gestures seemed purely comical. Not a single 
 serious gesture among them, and this really annoyed me. I think it's time to stop with silent protagonists, 
 as the Fable 2 Protagonist is the epitome of why they are frustrating. Giving the thumbs up to 
 your wife so she'll love you more...? Dumb.
  
  Also, the story has a quasi-serious tone, but it is not fleshed out and incredibly short. And as 
 mentioned, there are too many instances of comedy with not a single moment that left me feeling 
 moved. When I play an RPG, I play for the story, then gameplay. Fable 2 offers gameplay, with the 
 bare minimum of story.
  
  Also, the whole "no money, just renown for quests" thing is ridiculous. I mean, not everyone should 
 pay you to things, but it's quite absurd to say that not a single person is willing to offer you 
 money to do tasks no one else is able to do.
  
  The clothing in the game is kind of frustrating, as none of it really looks cool. In order to "look 
 good" by the game characters standards, you'll find yourself fighting bandits wearing fluffy shirts 
 and expensive jackets, as opposed to armor or a bad ass black outfit of some kind.
  
  All-in-all, Fable 2 is a fun game, but has the depth of a shower. If your looking for decent customization 
 blended with an action-heavy game, this is for you. If you're looking for an engaging story-line 
 that will leave you saying "Wow..." you should probably get something else. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SpiderPig1234
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 19, 2008 3:13 pm PT
Review:  My favorite thing about this game is that you can be good or evil. I just love being evil! I would 
 destroy everything in my path. My favorite weapon is the maelstorm and the only way to get it is 
 by being Evil as my big brother told me. I first played at his house but then he let me borrow 
 it and is amazing. But I had to give it back. = (.. But I hope I am able to get it for christmas. 
 I give it a 10!!! I would also reccomend gears of war 2 and fallout 3 this are really good to cause 
 I bought the demos on xbox live. Anyways fable 2 is 
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: BudgeSnutski
Rating: 5.5
Date: Nov 19, 2008 4:38 am PT
Review:  What's the point in finding new items when dying makes no difference to anything you could complete 
 the whole game with the sword you first start out with. I wanted a fantasy RPG! Instead we got 
 a jumped up version of the sims, with a bit of fantasy thrown in. God knows how they got it so 
 wrong considering how awesome the first game was. Even the magic not as good, what the deal with 
 charging it up, by the time you hit level 5 the enemys have hit you.
  
  And how do you finish it off?? With possibly the worst end of game boss fight in gaming history! 
 One shot and he's dead!? WTF?! And then you just stand there pressing the A button! Challenging 
 indeed! 
  
  Then there's the end choice, you have three and guess what everything you did throughout a game 
 thats all about how choices effect the outcome of things... has no effect on the end choice, you 
 can be evil all the way through and still chose to be good at the end... what a waste of time massacring 
 all them villagers was! 
  
  I only finished the game because I spent 40.00 on it! 
  
  Shame on you Molyneux! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Drmagicass
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 18, 2008 11:22 pm PT
Review:  I bought my 360 because of this game- almost 2 years ago. The release date was pushed back so many 
 times and they kept giving us these little previews. It got built up to be the greatest game ever 
 and it is not. The plot is paper thin. Your character, once again, has no depth or personality. 
 I was a girl in the story and when you increase your physique you look like a dude anyway. There 
 are hundreds of 'treasures' and dig spots and they all have crap. The good treasures take too long 
 to get and when you do get them, you've finished the main plot! The quests are exactly the same 
 as the last time. It's like they don't use writers. They should seriously take some notes from 
 the people who made Oblivion and put some thought into the game instead of a bunch of stupid features. 
 The gold trail makes things too easy. You don't even bother trying to find anything and your dog 
 points out all the treasures. The dog was the only good thing about this game. This game makes 
 me angry. The end is so bad I cannot believe it. I spit on this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hamann3
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 18, 2008 6:32 pm PT
Review:  I have to admit I was caught up in the hype for Fable 2. I was ready for a major improvement from 
 the first game that came out for the Xbox. Fable 2, when I played it was a slight improvement, 
 but also worse in some areas, such as making money. Fantasy games should be beyond the norm, not 
 an average day in the life of a middle-ages man (or woman) . After a player gets past the initial 
 working to earn enough money to buy a house or business, and gain steady income they can actually 
 start the game. Staying up to date with weapons is not difficult with the lack of armor in this 
 game, so damage dealt isn't usually a problem making combat easier. Unfortunately the only way 
 to live during combat is to gain enough experience to upgrade health, since characters start with 
 almost none. Potions are common enough and food is cheep if you don't mind getting fat fast, both 
 will replenish what little health you have. Later through the short main quest line combat becomes 
 a joke with most fights lasting seconds, and very little challenge. The main quests consist of 
 clearing evil minions out of areas and impressing the right people to advance. Even with the simplicity 
 and shortness of the quests I did still enjoy playing the game, and honestly that is the point 
 of and game, enjoyment. After playing through a few times on the other had the playback value decreases, 
 because of the slow start and shortness of the game. I have gone through and gotten most everything 
 to get in the game with only took a couple hours to do.
  In the end I think that Fable 2 is an enjoyable, if short, game to play at least once through.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ticharles36
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 19, 2008 8:41 pm PT
Review:  The game that you HAVE to play to see what's a real good game but don't play too much cause' you 
 could be addicted with just one renting just like me. Visual design is superb for those who love 
 that kind of graphics. That game is really surprising as sometimes I expected such result and the 
 complete opposite happened, I was often agreeably surprised. I like the fact that you can have a 
 wife and children, and you can give some gifts to them. You can buy which houses or shops that you 
 want and make benefits with those. The dog is so great he can find treasures or places to dig. Once 
 I've even found a condom and I used it with my wife. I really love the reactions that the people 
 have when I dance or I make my heroic pose, they can be happy or unhappy, they can love me or hate 
 me. Once a man was in love with me, I didn't expect that he was gay !? My favourite thing was the 
 capacities like Physic or Speed that you can upgrade with the orbes of experience. The spells are 
 same for upgrading but they are spectacular, my favourite is choc. Enemies are not too smart but 
 not too stupid too and I like that because their friends don't wait that the other on me die or 
 release me to attack me. Quests are really interesting because there are some bosses that are cool 
 to fight against and after you can show trophies that proves that you defeated them and augment 
 my renown. Jobs are great I had some fun to forge and win some money to buy gifts, house, clothes, 
 weapons or everything else. I'm really impatient to buy it to see what's going to take place and 
 to end it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cdo1536
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 18, 2008 11:21 am PT
Review:  This game was meant to be something grand, revolutionary, and innovative! Not ONE thing in this 
 game is amazing, except for the amount of problems.
  Theres a TON of things that were removed seemingly a month or two before release, and Peter Molyneux 
 mentioned nothing about removing the features that made the game stand out.
  Some of the things Fable 1 did right, they removed or changed to be horrible.
  
  Now lets get 
 started, but keep in mind through this review, theres nothing good or outstanding about this game. 
 So what I don't review, just consider it also less than average.
  
  
  Where did the development time go? This game took ages to make, and not ONE thing is grand about 
 it! Game length, game features, lack of bugs, NOTHING!
  
  Combat is a joke. A tell tail sign of this is when you start doing attacks to move in combat. If 
 you lunge faster and farther than you can if you simply moved to your target to get into range, 
 its noobish. The ranged weaponry aspect of the game could have been a little better, but is technically 
 the most advanced aspect of combat, and its still pretty simple. When I was told you could aim 
 and zoom with your gun, I expected iron sights or a scope to be used, but the camera simply just 
 gets a tight over the shoulder view and zooms in. The magic selection system is so awful and basic, 
 10 minutes of brainstorming could have came up with a better setup for spell selection.
  
  Oh the spells, talk about lacking. They are so lame and bland, and most taken from the first Fable. 
 The most advanced aspect of the magic would have to be slow time. The spells have 2 forms, AoE 
 around you or a single target cast with a more powerful/lasting effect. Slow time's projectile 
 form is the dash spell from Fable 1, except it adds bonus damage for a short time after casting. 
 Not that amazing, just a clever mixing of the spells, and THATS what gets the award for most sophisticated 
 spell... Not good.
  
  Now lets talk about quests. Quests often break due to pathing. If a quest requires an NPC to move 
 to a specific location for chat dialogue or triggering an event, expect to load your game. Reoccuring 
 jobs such as slavers (take slaves or save them) often pass as quests in this game, since they are 
 listed in the quest tab instead of jobs tab.
  Since I mentioned tabs, i'll just say if you try to augment a weapon with the bland and unimagined 
 weapon augments, you will see a null tab titled "accessories" listed among your melee and range 
 weapon tab. Nobody has found any of these, and is most likely it was content they removed and missed 
 the tab. Surprised? Not really.
  
  The dog is a disaster. There seems to just be 3 different colors for the dog. Neutral, good, and 
 evil. I was given the impression your purity/corruption would play a role in his appearance, but 
 it seems to simply be morality only. His lack of looks arn't the issue though, its his AI. He has 
 hell pathing around things, especially a problem when you have to wait on him to get to a dig spot 
 before you can dig it ip. It seems when he gets 5 star (expect almost everything to get worse or 
 break when it gets 5 star status) treasure hunting skill, he can't detect a treasure until im within 
 5 10 feet of it, this is a joke. Not only is that worse than 1 star treasure detection range, its 
 also slow at detecting dig spots. 
  
  Treasure... theres too much of it! This game is incredibly easy to make money in, so much so that 
 it ruins the economy and humble beginnings feel. Lionhead must have scrapped the idea of making 
 money while you was "offline" if your character gets a job, since jobs are only something you can 
 do while you play. Instead, you get income via rent and store profits, this happens often and can 
 quickly start bringing in thousands every 5 minutes, even more if you are a corrupt player. This 
 happens while you are off the game aswell, so expect a large amount of income after you wake up.
 
  The game needs to have about 10% as many chests, and merge the loot together to actually be worth 
 the time to open the chest. When you get money so easily in this game, chests would have to have 
 at least 5,000 gold each to be worth opening. I once opened a chest for 15 gold, and found a money 
 bag of 1 coin before... STOP WASTING MY TIME! I dread moving to new areas simply because my dog 
 wants me to dig up every dig spot worth 
::::::

::::::
UserName: codykingo
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 18, 2008 9:17 am PT
Review:  First, the graphics are very well done. The art direction is fantastic. They are not perfect however, 
 but I have yet to find a game that is. The lighting is phenomenal. There are some noticeable technical 
 glitches, but its nothing that completlely ruins the game at all.
  
  Next, the sound. The sound is great as well. The swords clanging, the guns banging, and the magic 
 flying, all sounds great. The voice acting is really good as well, from both the main characters 
 of the story, and the other NPC's just walking around the world.
  
  The gameplay is awesome. The combat system and experience system are genius and really fun and 
 easy to use. The magic system is fantastic as well. The addition of guns was a great one. And it's 
 super easy to come up with a totally awesome move by strategically pressing a couple buttons.
 
  
  The story is really, really good. Don't listen to Gamespot's review and the medal they gave them 
 called: "Weak Story." The story is good, and it will have you feeling emotions all over the place. 
 But, like the first game, it's way too short. It is longer than the first one, but... not much. 
 After you complete the main story, while there are still quite a few side quests left to do, it's 
 just kind of... boring.
  
  All aspects of the multiplayer were disappointing. Do I think it was a failure? No. The couch co-op 
 multiplayer is fun, but compared to the single player experience, it's really not worth it. The 
 online multiplayer is a very innovative and cool idea, and it is fun to look at a complete strangers 
 world and see how differant it is. But just like couch co-op, it's just more fun to play by yourself. 
 So do I think the multiplayer was a failure? No. Just kind of disappointing.
  
  All in all, Fable 2 is a great game. It has it's flaws like every other game, but it's still a 
 great experience. The story is way too short. The graphics and sound are great, and the gameplay 
 is fantastic. I'd recommend buying this game, because hey, mabye you'll like it enough to keep 
 it forever. Just complete the main story, then you can always turn it in to Gamestop for another 
 lol.
  
  8.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jason4774
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 18, 2008 12:40 am PT
Review:  I thought the original Fable was a masterpiece! Yes, it was short, and sure it lacked depth, but 
 in a gaming industry that was taking itself far too seriously back in 2004, Fable was a delight! 
 It had a sense of humor, no pretentions about poking fun at it's own shallow core, and introduced 
 a game that was as rewarding to play no matter how you chose to play the game. There weren't alot 
 of games like it before, and for me at least, it really stood out.
  
  Sure, it could warrant some criticisms from fans and foes alike. the combat was overly simple, 
 the plot was stripped out of the first page of "Completely predictible motivations for heroes", 
 but i felt it's charm and sense of humor made those faults forgivable, and actually, made the game 
 more accessible for anyone to play.
  
  Unfortunately...
  
  ... Fable 2 managed to do nothing to addrress the aforementioned weaknesses, while managing to strip 
 away most of the charm of the first game, replacing it all with a dog.
  
  Now, don't get me wrong. I loved the dog. i thought he was fantastic, and caught myself playing 
 with him in the game more than I did anything else. It's just that, the dog was the only thing 
 charming about the game.
  
  I did like another character... the main character's sister... and unfortunately, she dies within 
 10 minutes of starting the game... sigh...
  
  the NPC's which made the original Fable so much fun for me, seemed more abundant this time around. 
 which, in theory, should have made the good times better, but in fact, they seemed too much like 
 eachother to seem individual in any way. without any way to tell who was who, I fould myself not 
 getting attached to the characters in the game as much. Sure, there were more emotes this time 
 around, but meh... either the novelty has worn off, or the people I used them on just seemed less 
 likable. i honestly can't say.
  
  So, I just spent alot of my time roaming around the countryside, throwing a ball for my dog, reassuring 
 him he was a good boy, and watching him do the bunnyhop every time I whistled.
  
  The first game did a great job really encouraging you to play evil from the start, and this time 
 around, Fable 2 seems to do very little to compel you to do so. Outside of drinking beer and eating 
 meat, which somehow affected my characters purity in a negative way, evil just wasn't as fun this 
 time around. Sure, you could do all the same things in the first game, marry every woman... oh wait... not 
 quite everything... it seems (unless I missed it, which is entirely possible) , that homosexual marriage 
 is impossible in this game. Maybe I just needed to experiment with cross-dressing to unlock it 
 somehow, but honestly, most of the apparel in this game was so atrocious, that I tried to avoid 
 changing out of the only half way decent looking outfit I found.
  
  While the outfits weren't nearly as appealing this time around, I'll use that as a segway into 
 what was good in the game...
  
  The art direction was wonderful. Strolling around the world was genuinely more breathtaking this 
 time around than the first. some scenes were breathtaking. The combat, while still unnecessarily 
 simple, manages to stave off my criticism yet again, because it's a kenetic delight to watch. And, 
 personally, I feel like whoever came up with the concept and behavioral design for the dog deserves 
 a god damn medal!
  
  If Fable 2 simply added what I said was good without screwing with what made the first game great, 
 I'd have no bones to pick. But sadly, they did, and that's a shame. As I said, playing evil wasn't 
 nearly as enriching this time around, which made playing good feel less compelling as well. Odd, 
 I know, but the first game did everything it could to tempt you to play evil, encouraging it around 
 every corner and turn of events, that giving in to it felt like a delight in self indulgance. Which, 
 conversely, madeplaying good feel that much more rewarding, because the game almost seemed to make 
 fun of you for doing so. Trust me, when you do something noble in the first game, and you're taunted 
 and mocked and laughed at for it, it took all my strength not to smack and kick the crap out of 
 every villager who so much as whispered an insult to my character.
  
  This time, the same temptation to be bad's just not there. And without that temptation, there's 
 no rewarding sense in playing good or bad. sure, you can still kill villagers, but honestly, none 
 of them merit enough of anything from me to make me want to. and, as I began before i segwayed 
 into my tanget on fable 2's ban on same sex marriage, you still can marry every woman in every 
 villiage, but honestly, sense they all look the same, act the same, dress and sound the same... who 
 cares.
  
  I was really looking forward to this game. The original is still on my top tier of "games i'll 
 never forget" list. I had to play the game through twice, because upon finishing Fable 2 the first 
 time, I was suprised by my indifference to it. Sadly, it was even less fun for me the second time 
 around, which was dissapointing for me, but it did crystalize for me what was missing. The taste 
 of WANTING to be evil, or STRIVING to stay good. I mean hell, in real life, it takes alot of strength 
 to the the right thing all the time when the wrold does little more than seemingly mock you for 
 it, and everyone at some time or another gives in, and does the wrong thing, cause everyone else 
 is doing it, or just plain because someone else deserved it. Fable did more to replicate that dynamic 
 in a game than anything I had ever seen before.
  
  That same dynamic was lacking In Fable 2. And without that, it made the game feel pointless.
 
  
  Which is too bad, cause that dog was pretty darn cool. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nickdastick
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 17, 2008 10:22 pm PT
Review:  Let's get this out of the way, this is the game that should have been Fable 1 (at least if you 
 listened to the promises of Molyneux) . That being said, this game is a BLAST!!! The co-op is fun 
 even with the wonky camera and generic henchman, and the overall world is just awesome! Here's 
 the breakdown:
  
  Graphics: Solid graphics. The character models could be a bit nicer for sure, but the surrounding 
 areas are just gorgeous and the colors are beautiful. The world is very vibrant for sure. Also, 
 the magic spells look AMAZING!!! I can't get enough of the lightning effects as well as the fire 
 effects.
  
  Gameplay: The gameplay is fun and simple. The melee is great and so is the shooting. The animations 
 also work very well.
  
  Audio: The characters are very funny and they say some hilarious stuff. The guns are just AWESOME 
 to listen to and are spot on. Very immersive to be sure.
  
  Overall, this game is a riot! It's very fun in every aspect and it could be even better with the 
 "big" announcement from the makers of the game this week. If you like RPG's at all you need to 
 pick up this game, it's just a lot of fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NewbieShwa
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 17, 2008 7:42 pm PT
Review:  I will make this snappy. An awesome game that can kill a lot of hours. Many quests and fun battles 
 and co-op (I don't' know why people complain about the camera) . Only two minor downsides is the 
 loading (which I think will be fixed with the new dashboard update) and some minor visual glitches 
 (walking randomly through) . Some key features of the game is investment and learning what passive 
 income is. This game teaches us of some realities in life (prostitutes etc) and really compels 
 how hard it is to be good rather then evil.
  The game can easily steal more than 100 hours, but the story line is a bit short, running around 
 15 hours. The dog is a wonderful feature that has you asking how you would live in Albion and discover 
 all its secrets without this awesome pal. I personally find dyeing a bit stupid as it doesn't make 
 anything challenging and you only gain a scar on your face as a result. Building a family is great 
 fun, as you interact with your wife and watch your children grow up.
  
  Overall a must buy for people that love a not so much challenging but fun experience game.
  
 
  Overall rating: 9.7 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ravenowns
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 17, 2008 3:41 am PT
Review:  I played the First Fable and enjoyed it. Thought it was a bit short but that's about the only flaw 
 I was able to find. I actually found Fable I better then Fable II. Probably the story and armour. 
 The story in Fable I was much better IMHO.
  
  Now on to Fable II.
  
  Pros:
  Multi-Player was a nice addition
  Nice graphics
  A decent amount of exploration
  Loved the 
 magic. Expecially the fire. Loved casting it and catching someone on fire and watching them run 
 and scream in pain. Oh yea!
  
  Cons:
  To short just like the first one.
  Story did not pull me in as the first one did. Ending really sucked.
  Lame Auguments. I put a 
 flame augument on my sword. Did it become a flaming sword? No. Why not? : (
  No armour. ?! Come on man. Seriously. Go ahead and throw in the clothes but add some armour. OR. 
 Add a way to give your clothes a defensive boost for a certain amount of time.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: aragornjer
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 16, 2008 7:19 pm PT
Review:  When I started thinking about getting this game was during E3. Before then I was very skeptical 
 on getting it. But when I did get it, I couldn't get enough of it. The graphics were just amazing 
 and how the controls were just too easy, and I liked them. Now I am a pretty big RPG player and 
 have quite a few of them, and I look for different things in them such as: How does the character 
 act with the people and how do they react? How much can I explore? And is the way I do things will 
 it effect the environment and/or the people around me? This game satisfied all those areas and 
 criteria well beyond my expectations, not to mention that you feel that you are not the only one 
 in the world because you have your dog. I started the main quest for about an hour then I got derived 
 off course to play these random side quests. I started having wives and kids like crazy and had 
 crazy jobs. I did this for several days and decided that I should do a review for the game so I 
 completed the main quest. I have to say the ending surprised me. I thought the ending the game 
 was going to be the hardest but it was just too easy. But nonetheless the story line was solid 
 and actually was quite fun. I was a Good person because I wanted to be treated nicely so I have 
 yet to get an Evil person. I also decided to buy all the houses everywhere in Bowerstone and Oakfield 
 and winded up spending days buying that. Fortunately the way of getting money is quite easy, but 
 too easy. You get money every 5 minutes but it appears that when your Xbox is off you get it every 
 hour or something like that. It is highly addictive and the changes to the environment are dynamic. 
 After you pass a certain point you see a change in a particular city and in your families (I'm 
 trying not to give spoilers) , and this is where I bought some more houses.
  One thing that I don't like is that the menus are slow to react. If you press pause it goes to 
 the menu but it takes between 2-5 seconds. The loading times for each new map is quite long but 
 I have gotten used to that from Oblivion. The maps are quite larger than the Fable 1's maps. But 
 there are small amount of weapons compared to Oblivion which came out several years. I bought the 
 Limited edition and was disappointed with the armor. I thought it was going the most top notch 
 stuff but I found that there was stuff more powerful than that so I basically ditched the stuff. 
 If you buy the game buy the regular edition, unless you love the Master Chief armor and don't care 
 the cost or you want to know how the game was made (the main reason I bought it) . Another thing 
 was that if you play multiplayer you get stuck with a specific position and you and your friend 
 have to go in the same direction and stay very close as well. If you go into another persons game 
 you have to be henchman, which was fine with me, but I preferred to keep it only RPG. 
  Overall I love this game. It is a game for a person who loves a good RPG and has a long patience 
 and a love of dogs. It is defiantly worth your money for the regular edition. Thank you Peter and 
 you got me...... I love my dog..... I can't get enough of him. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ritual-Power
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 16, 2008 6:56 pm PT
Review:  This is a great game and is deffentily worth owning an xbox 360. Single player mode is pretty great. 
 The story line is amazing and the side missions are tons of fun, there is easily 150+ hours of 
 game play. However, that being said multiplayer and co-op is a broken feature with this game. The 
 fact that you cannot import your own character into the game with your friends and that you must 
 use a pre made character with your skills and abilties is an instant turn off. Also, your weapons 
 are not the same as your original character. There is also the lag issues and the co-op issues 
 interacting with the games AI is nothing shy of horrendous. The fact that you can make 20, 000 
 gold in the first half an hour of gameplay makes the game far to easy. Bottom line is this is a 
 buyer but if online is your thing your needs will be better met with WoW. :P. But if you're satisfied 
 with offline gaming, be prepared to be playing forever as it is really addictive. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Scarmer
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 16, 2008 3:07 pm PT
Review:  Fable 2 is one of those games. Yeah, one of the games that just don't live up to the hype, or mainly 
 in this game, their potential. It bills it self from the go as a free roaming adventure game where 
 you can choose who you want to be and what you want to do. Although it does have some of that feel, 
 at heart it is still pretty linear.
  
  The main story is short and in the end leaves more questions than answered. Some of the sidequests 
 are good and can be quite varied which is slightly surprising given the lack of depth most of the 
 characters in the game have. You can marry and have kids but theres no real attachment to any of 
 them. Go waltz in to a town and do a few expressions and everybody will love you. Its just a bit 
 too basic really.
  
  The combat system is quite simple but still manages to be enjoyable. The if you get in trouble, 
 just pause the game and take a few potions to fix you up attitude can make it a bit to easy though. 
 The abilities you get from levelling up can really make a difference, which is good as you won't 
 be finding much else to up your stats, other than the weapons.
  
  Maybe the worst thing about Fable 2 is the amount of glitches present in the game. While most of 
 them are for the most part harmless there are a few that can easily wreck hours of effort in to 
 a character. You'll also probably spend about 1/5 of your time on fable 2 waiting for an area to 
 load, from a dungeon to a tiny little cellar. Which makes the fact that menu screen has to take 
 time to load up inexcusable. This game stinks of being rushed out.
  
  But after all that I still found myself enjoying the experience. The graphics, while not the best 
 I've ever seen where still pretty good, the combat while simple is still fun. The guns/magic/melee 
 combat system works quite well, even though there are a few niggles with it. The addition of the 
 dog was well done and added to the games value. 
  
  Overall, even though this game has more than its fair share of problems it still ends up being 
 playable and even pretty enjoyable. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: greatcarbuncle
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 27, 2008 8:47 am PT
Review:  I wish, I really do, that I could give Fable 2 a 10/10 and a brilliant review and move on, but 
 despite being a huge Fable fan I just can't make this game last. After four years of avid waiting, 
 AVID, I own the Limited Edition. And after little over 20 hours of play the game's charm has completely 
 worn off, I'm on my third, very thorough, playthrough, and the whole game feels like it's on railway 
 tracks, scripted from beginning to end.
  
  Fable 1's main problem was that it was short. Amazingly short. Fable 2 improves upon this a little 
 but not hugely. Peter Molyneux has not over hyped this game, he just overestimated it. He thought 
 that the story would take 8 hours to speed run through, but I took my sweet time and probably clocked 
 up about 6 hours on the main quest line, even exploring every new region rigorously. There is a 
 terrible lack of side quests as well. They are exciting and varied at first, but the zeal wears 
 of extremely quickly. It's hard to explain, but the way that everything happens in exactly the 
 same way every single playthrough makes the game feel like it is completely scripted. Rather than 
 feeling my choices affect everything around me in revolutionary ways, it feels much more like OPTION 
 A = OUTCOME A with DIALOGUE A.
  
  There is one thing I feel that Peter owes us that isn't in Fable 2: morally grey areas. There isn't 
 a single one that I can see. For instance, in early previews of the game a choice in childhood 
 is mentioned. Do you deliver a love letter from a hapless - to put it kindly - loser to his 'Juliet', 
 or give it to her overbearing mother? It would seem on the surface that giving the letter to the 
 girl is the good choice: true love should be able to flourish! But wait! If I give the letter to 
 the mother, am I not protecting this promising young lass from this hopeless man and giving her 
 a chance to live? Hmmm a morally grey area, no? No. Giving the letter to the mother is evil and 
 giving it to the girl is good. There is no subtlety in how your actions are measured either. + 
 good or evil points pop up above your character's head to painfully indicate what choice you just 
 made.
  
  Of course, the game has merits. The dog provides an extremely close link to this incredibly vibrant 
 world. When he isn't with you his absence is quite obvious, and it's a joy to be reunited with 
 him. The NPCs feel alive and the world ticks constantly.
  
  But the feeling persists that Fable 2 is just lots of amazing ideas that haven't been developed 
 to their full potential and remain shallow and tacked together. Once everything has been done once, 
 which takes a surprisingly short amount of time, there is very little incentive to do it again.
 
  
  Hears hoping that Fable 3 really can live up to the promise that the franchise is absolutely STUFFED 
 full of. greatcarbuncle 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fiery_Eternity
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 16, 2008 10:49 am PT
Review:  So, where do i start? well, the storyline is short, but very immersive but its definitely not where 
 fable 2 shines, where it shines however is in all the side quests, family, jobs, everything. You 
 can be a real estate tycoon who charges his/her tenants 100% more than what the price should be. 
 You can have kids, a wife/husband, or just boink some prostitute, it doesn't really matter. but 
 there is a huge area in this place for you to explore, tons of extra side quests ranging from rescuing 
 slaves, to capturing people to make them into slaves, from saving a child from hobbes to fighting 
 monstrous trolls. The good/evil alignments are a great part of this game, although its very easy 
 to become evil and very hard to become good. it has a very easy learning curve and its probably 
 a good game to get you into rpgs. Probably one of the best games to hit the shelves this year, hope 
 you have a great day! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EstebanPiecrust
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 16, 2008 8:36 am PT
Review:  Your life, your choice... but be prepared to face the consequences. A short statement but with 
 huge promise. This is generally what Fable II claims to offer it's players, but is it true to it's 
 word?
  
  The story is based around you. You can be good or evil, pure or corrupt, boy or girl. These are 
 the three basic choices, though technically you can also choose what you wear and which weapons 
 you use too though this is fairly common among most modern day western RPGs. Here's the puzzling 
 part, my character is a pure evil female, sounds pretty sadistic eh? You would think so, but in 
 fact it means that my character is nasty, murderous soul who keeps house prices low, gives gifts, 
 plays the lute and eats celery. This really isn't a joke. What would be percieved as pure evil 
 in this game is in fact corrupt evil, this is where you do such things as raise rent on your properties, 
 extort money, beg (I always knew tramps where inherently corrupt) and eat crunchy chickens. The 
 two different polarities just simply don't go hand in hand, it's just weird. [Note to self: must 
 try making saintly all round good guy that extorts money on the side]
  
  The game also offers different ways of dealing with the all important combat. The three basic areas 
 of specialisation are strength (swords, hammers & axes) , skill (gunslinger & Archer... well, crossbow 
 user) and magic (ummm, magic) . This is all well and good, but because you start off having to develop 
 all areas at the start, you inevitably end up being a pro in all areas.... which kind of defeats 
 the point.
  
  On the plus side of this choice "issue", one neat feature of this game is how your choices effect 
 the landscape. For example, if you choose to help the criminals rather than the law enforcers in 
 the beginning stages of the game, Bowerstone Old Town's economy never improves and remains the 
 poor side of town rather than prospering. This also happens at other various points in the game. 
 Now whilst this is aesthetically impressive and I suppose it does effect which side quests you 
 can access it still doesn't effect what you would think would be most important of all, THE DAMN 
 STORYLINE!! It's just so linear, yes that's right... in a game revolving around choice, the story 
 is so very linear! Why? probably because of the cost of voice actors. More complex, branching story 
 = more lines of dialogue = more expenditure on voice actors. Though it makes for better presentation, 
 voice acting can potentially ruin the chances of a deeply complex RPG game, which I always thought 
 was the aim of roleplay. But I digress, the story does branch but not until the very end of the 
 game where you get three choices (of which I will not mention) that effect the gaming world on 
 the outcome of your game. Big whoop.
  
  So with the core of the game broken down, let's move onto other things. The gameplay and general 
 combat is very well constructed and makes it fun to play. A simple one button system based on timing 
 and rhythmic button pressing makes hand to hand combat fun... I forget where I heard it, but I 
 once heard someone say that "controls in videogames would ideally be telepathic, but if we make 
 do with what we've got then control systems have to be made basic, easy to remember and easy to 
 pull off, leave the challenge in being players' decisions and reactions within a game, otherwise 
 games become frustrating and not very fun to play". This is probably one of my favourite quotes 
 based around videogames and one that has clearly been considered with Fable II. Not only does the 
 hand to hand combat been a great success but so is the magic casting system. It was a brave decision 
 by Lionhead to abolish the Magic Meter system which is fairly common in modern games, but one that 
 payed off. Rather than losing points in your magic meter, you determine the effectiveness of your 
 spell by how long you choose to charge it and whether you wish for it to be a zonal or focused 
 attack. To attack a group of surrounding opponents you simply hold down the magic button and release 
 at the chosen moment and to single out a single foe you simply hold the direction in which your 
 opponent is in when you release the magic button, it is a simple system that works wonderfully. 
 The only minor criticism of the system comes with gunplay, whilst it works well whilst the enemy 
 is at a distance or against small groups of people, fights as a gunslinger against large groups 
 of ambushing opponents can be a very long drawn out affair and a fairly tedious encounter at that.... 
 the body part targetting is fairly well implemented, but again hard to use at close range.
  
  My final criticism is yet again one of the storyline. Is it just me or does it seem very short? 
 It seems that if you avoid the optional quests, then this gme is over very quickly indeed. If the 
 point of the game is in indulging in all the "extra" stuff, then I am afraid to say that it is 
 in fact an inferior product when compared to say Oblivion which has so much more extra content 
 in side missions. Despite this, it is saved by it's wonderfully Tim Burton-esque appearance, fantastic 
 sense of humour and it's deeply enjoyable combat system. I could give or take all the dog stuff 
 though, it all seemed a little pointless but I suppose it was an improvement over the old "digging 
 for treasure" system. In hindsight it is a very enjoyable game but failed to live up to it's own 
 vision, if only there was as much variance in the storyline as there is with, say, the people you 
 meet on the streets...... though I suppose Lionhead have a problem with that too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Champion57575
Rating: 5
Date: Nov 15, 2008 9:47 pm PT
Review:  Well... I don't really THINK I spoiled anything. I'm like almost 100 in surnace but whatever. SPOILER.
 
  I would've reviewed this game earlier but my freakin' Xbox decided to die on me. There's only 
 a few games in this world that make you go "awesome... I just totally capped that person". Fable 
 2 is only kinda one of em. In fact... I'm not even sure what game HAS given me that reaction... other 
 than Chuck Norris' game. The game itself was a letdown on so many scales. I was expecting a giant 
 map where you can run around freely like an antelope in the forest. But, all you get is a larger 
 pathway and lies. Deceitful lies. They say the game's like ten times bigger than the last one... I 
 don't really see it. That depressed me. I mean, I get to the last city and I'm like "yeah, I can't 
 wait for the NEXT city" and there was none! There's only three cities again! It's not ANY bigger. 
 Sure, you got more EMPTY space but that's about it. Another thing I was disappointed by was the 
 magic system. They took away berserker? That spell the best! They only had like eight spells and 
 they're all kinda the same thing and it's like "oh... I can either lightening them, fire them, or 
 more different lightening or fire". Some of the spells didn't even do anything. Like Chaos. That 
 was completely worthless. You just got chopped. The game was also ridiculously easy and short. 
 They expect you to just run through it I guess without fighting anything. You didn't even get a 
 big fight at the end. It was one shot death... which I kinda liked. I mean, I liked the guns. That 
 was awesome. You can now be a fat beer belly redneck running around with a shotgun shooting anyone 
 that steps on his lawn. Yeah, needless to say, I mostly used the shotgun. The battle system was 
 supposed to be "more indepth". I honestly felt like it was less. Everything that they promised 
 me, they failed at. They said you get kids but they don't get to be like teens or... adults. I wanted 
 to teach little Johnny how to kill OTHER kids. But no, he just cowers at the sight of my glorious 
 character. In the comercial it shows you as a red, flaming demon monster thing. You don't get to 
 become that! You just become an ugly hideous beast without one flame! I liked how you got the red 
 cloud in the last one. You didn't jack here. Just hideous. Another thing was your characters seemed 
 to be fat... always. I mean, on my first playthrough I picked a girl cuz you know... it'd be awesome. 
 Havin' a chick killing villagers. But no, I don't get the anime chick in a bikini I had invisioned. 
 I get a muscular, fat chick and I'm like "what is this a documentary or a videogame?!" And while 
 I'm on the subject, the game had too many freakin' glitches! Everywhere you go there's some stupid 
 freakin' glitch that royaly screws you so you have to restart the game! The other Fable autosaved 
 every two seconds. You're on your own here. This game desperately needed autosave every five seconds 
 to compinsate somewhat for the glitches. The glitches almost made this game unplayable. My cousin 
 got to the part right before you get Dreadlock the Toad Loving Fat Monk and he can't progress cuz 
 the game glitched. He can't leave because the bridge is out for some stupid reason and he can't 
 progress cuz he can't talk to the guy he's supposed to be able to. So, we just kinda stared at 
 the screen going "why did this have to happen and how". And in my first game I get passed the end 
 of the game not knowing about the Temple of Darkness and I'm like "oh! There it is". I was depressed 
 because I missed my chance. The Temple of Darkness had been glitched. I could no longer sacrifice 
 people because everyone had been glitched out. Oh, the humanity. Also, the A button sucked. You'd 
 be rading a house and you'd see that you could take something from a furniture thing and you'd 
 you know, press the A button. And it wouldn't work. So, I furiously tapped the A button repeatedly 
 until it didn't work some more. So, you have to walk back, walk forward, hit the A button, walk 
 back, turn around and shoot yourself in the head while the game laughs at you. You'd be running 
 in the middle of the street and suddenly, you'd just stop running and you'd look down at the controller 
 seeing that you're holding down the A button yet, you're not running. So, you have to repeatedly 
 tap the A button until it decides to stop being a retard. Sometimes, you couldn't put your weapons 
 away or draw them. You have to hit the start the button, go back to the game, spin around in a 
 circle three times, and then pull out your weapon and pray that it shoots and doesn't explode... somehow. 
 When I played as a guy I had like twenty wives and it was freakin' hard man. I couldn't do anything 
 else but pamper my stupid trophy wives. "My house isn't perfect, my child's an idiot, I need more 
 money, you're not giving me enough attention". The game should've allowed you to beat your wife 
 like in the last one. That should've been an option! "Obey your wife's every whim or beat her. 
 Hm.... oh, why not. PUNT!" Not to mention they didn't let you beat your kids. When I had my kid 
 my first reaction was "I can't wait to beat him". You can't even beat your kids! You can't even 
 KILL kids! I also didn't like how they took away the steal ability. That was awesome! You can STEAL 
 stuff but it's not as challenging or satisfying or in depth. I liked the jobs but... they were extremely 
 boring and monotonous. So, I pretty much just bought every town there was in like five seconds 
 and decided I had enough money but still... you know... needed more. Oh yeah, I thought it was pretty 
 awesome how you could change the economy but that was about it. That was the ONLY thing they improved 
 on... other than the money system. I liked the money. It gave you a big paycheck every five minutes 
 even when the Xbox was off and the game was out. They were also promising a nonlinear story. It's 
 the same story every time. Sure, you can change your surroundings but the story is still the same. 
 The dog was alright. I mean, it served its purpose. Found me treasure. But, once you get enough 
 money he's pretty much an obstacle. Constantly barking. I found myself shouting at the TV several 
 times. "SHUT UP"! Really captured the essence of a dog. I would've probably rather had a person 
 that points at treasure silently. Hey! That could my son! Why can't your son be the silent treasure 
 pointer? You could get him to do tricks. Oh, I also hated the magic charging. In the game you get 
 to charge your magic for a more powerful attack. Unlike the last one when the magic was just powerful. 
 So, you find yourself charging in the middle of five enemies to get to the fifth level lightening 
 spell and they're all slashing depleating your life down to nothing and then you ask yourself "was 
 it really worth it". Magic and the block button were pretty much useless. You could run through 
 the game without ever getting a magic spell and be completely fine. Block was equally as useless. 
 "Oh, you can block and get arrowed in the face". That was fun. I thought it was pretty cool how 
 you could buy the castle thing but I was disappointed because the castle was half its original 
 size... oh, a fourth... it literally only had like three rooms... and the fact that my butler left. 
 Why can't you guys just leave the butler alone?! What if I wanted that guy?! He could've been the 
 pointing guy and be like "sir, you have a message and there's a treasure chest ten paces behind 
 you" and you'd be totally like "thanks Jeeves, AWAY!" Uh... most of the "hero" guys were annoying. 
 I liked the guy that was always betraying you and shooting everyone but... he didn't have enough 
 lines for me to start hating him. I hated Fatty Dreadlock Fatso. She annoyed me with her gerth. 
 Always whining. "I can't fight, I'm a wuss, my father died". I wasn't a big fan of magic guy either. 
 He was racist... and he didn't give me his mansion... he made me pay. Which uh... brings me to the 
 question. Who am I paying? It's a castle in the middle of nowhere and I have to pay for the land? 
 Well, screw you guys! I'm just gonna live in it! That should've been an option as well. Oh yeah, 
 I loved the community service option. That's all I ever did... that and resist. I never DID the 
 community service... except once... and that was on accident. I was strolling along when some guy 
 like attacked me and I was like "eh... okay... you're dead". Then this freakin' guard approaches 
 me and he's like "good job citizen, you've completed your community service" and I was like "NOOOO". 
 And then I went on a killing spree to make up for it again pleading community service. You could 
 do community service for failing to do your community service! I also liked the assassination jobs. 
 Those were alright... except the fact that I kept forgetting "you have to do at night". C'mon dude, 
 they're not any less suspecting in the night! But anyway, this game disappointed me, enraged me, 
 and also... made me restart it. The thing that this game needed was Assassins' Creed's battle system. 
 Then, the glitches wouldn't have been as annoying cuz you'd be slashing some guy's shoulder in 
 half. Again kids, I'm not trying to offend, be racist, sexist, or uh... violent... well, that's a 
 lie but... I'm not REALLY violent if you REALLY pay attention. So, don't delete my review. I'm just 
 funny and always laughing on the inside but if you delete this review or any other one, I spiral 
 into an uncontrollable rage and usually this ends in a lawsuit by my neighbor for driving a car 
 straight through his house which wasn't REALLY my fault cuz who told him to put his house there? 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: a55a55inx
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 15, 2008 3:20 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay - 8.5/10 
  
  If you have played the original, then everything should feel somewhat familiar. Although the combat 
 has been simplified to single button presses, and buttons have been utilized for the 360 controller, 
 it still feels like Fable in terms of combat, magic and expressions. Guns have been added to the 
 mix and provides a new way of fighting enemies, combos can be chained together with all three combat 
 options for more experience and it feels smooth and fun. The way you play the game can affect those 
 around you, being rude or a murderer of the innocents will lead to people fearing you and will 
 flee from you, while being funny and kind will cause the people to love and cheer for you. This 
 mechanic (while existing in the original Fable) has been improved with the ability to have children, 
 and what you do will affect their personalities as well. The addition of the dog makes things a 
 bit easier as well. Not only will your little friend follow you every where you go, but he will 
 sniff out treasures and join in on your expressions if you teach him how. Your dog is a loyal companion 
 throughout the quest no matter who you become. There are still a few flaws, however, slowdown shows 
 its' ugly head in frantic situations, sometimes shop owners aren't working when they should be 
 and you can't purchase anything until they come back, gold is way too easy to earn once you've 
 owned some property ( I mean, seriously, I gained 100,000 gold from not playing one time, it feels 
 undeserved) and it makes working pointless, and the game is just too easy. Most people will get 
 through the game without dying even once. But overall, it is a great experience that any fan of 
 action-RPGs should try.
  
  Graphics - 7.5/10
  
  There are some areas that are beautiful, such as the farmlands but there isn't much else to look 
 at. It's just decent at best compared to other 360 games out there. The art style is great and 
 I love the direction, but it doesn't feel like much of an improvement over the original overall.
 
  
  Animations - 7.5/10
  
  Some animations during combat are smooth, but there are a lot of objects such as; debris and water 
 splashes that strangely run at a slower framerate than everything else. It was distracting to see 
 this. The dog animations are great but sometimes my avatar didn't feel like he was walking on the 
 environment, instead he would feel like he was floating instead. Much could have been done to improve 
 some of the animations in the game, overall.
  
  Sound - 7/10
  
  Combat sounds are fine and do their job and everyone speaks, which is sometimes a problem. Many 
 people sound the same, but it's when people constantly surround you and speak simultaneously that 
 the game becomes annoying. People will constantly ask you the same questions at times and just 
 wont stop talking. It's like that little brother who wont stop asking questions when you just want 
 to be left alone. People would even gather in your house uninvited and talk up a storm, it's not 
 like they have anything interesting to say either, it's repeated. Voice acting overall is not much 
 different from the original Fable, it's not great, but it's not bad either.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: novalightning
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 15, 2008 11:22 am PT
Review:  From the moment I picked this game up i was hooked. There is heaps of extra quests and jobs to 
 do but they are not important and you wont get penalized for not doing them (unlike GTA IV) . The 
 addition of the dog as your companion is a great touch and i noticed myself looking around when 
 i couldn't find my pup.
  
  This was my first RPG and I have been very impressed. The only things that let it down was all 
 the loading time. I got sick of having to walk to the next quests and wait as three different regions 
 had to load, in the end i would always just use the pause map to transport me there. this was good 
 for saying playing time but make the game feel disjointed. also the 'final battle' scene was far 
 to easy, having an expectation built up that Lucien was going to be a formidable foe, i was disappointed 
 at how easily i was able to kill him ( when i say 'i', what i mean is watch a cut scene because 
 i didn't actually have to do anything. apart from that it was a great game to play 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mangaminx
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 15, 2008 8:22 am PT
Review:  Introduction
  The first Fable was a good game, and fortunately so is this next instalment in the series, the 
 main issue with both these titles arises from one thing, their creator. Peter Molyneux is as most 
 of the gaming world has realised by this point extremely good at over-hyping his titles to impossible 
 levels and then fail to actually deliver. Yes Fable 2 isn't a bad game, but after all of the hype 
 it's clearly a game that does not live up to it's expectations.
  
  
  
  Story & Characters
  Ugh, well Fable 2 is an action RPG, one with very little in terms of a plot 
 and very little in terms of character development. You play a nameless guy or girl and are unleashed 
 in a world to take revenge on the Lord of the land who destroyed your childhood in the tutorial 
 part of the game. You are helped by the blind Theresa, three other heroes and your trusty dog all 
 of whom have very little in the way of personality, to be fair the only cast member who left any 
 impression on me, the third hero "Reaver" is in the story so briefly he is barely in the game. 
 It's also worth saying at this point that if you blast through the story it'll only take about 
 3-4 hours to finish the game, so don't expect an epic yarn whatsoever, just expect a short tale, 
 with some funny bit's and reasonable narrative. 
  
  The other non-main characters in the game (the villages you can work with and marry/have sex with/murder 
 etc) are all completely personality-less and lifeless. Im sure a few people will make an emotional 
 connection to their fictional spouse in the gaming world, but I didn't so I sacrificed my characters 
 many wives. 
  
  
  
  
  Gameplay
  So plot and character wise things are a bit flat, so this leaves the side quests, the jobs, the 
 "life simulator" part of the game. This is where Fable 2 is strong. The side quests are involving 
 and allow the "good/evil/pure/corrupt" aspect of the game to feel more well realised than it does 
 if you just follow the main plot. Most quests have two sides to them and each outcome has an impact 
 on the world and what you can do in the future, while some of them have been recycled from the 
 original Fable this isn't necessary a bad thing it just makes some of the quests slightly more 
 clichd.
  
  Combat wise the game works well, simple button presses allow for you to wield you gun/sword and 
 magic as weapons and become a master of all of them by gaining XP. Holding down buttons allows 
 your gun and sword to become more powerful and additional skills such as the ability to blow enemies 
 heads off or perform lethal chain attacks become available as your skills progress too. It's probably 
 one of the simplest combat systems I have seen in a game for a while and it's refreshingly basic 
 while still being fun. 
  
  When it comes to making money in Fable 2, the monsters no longer leak money from their twitching 
 corpses but instead you make money by doing menial jobs. These jobs test your reaction speeds as 
 you chop wood, make weapons and pour ale to get the bulk of your cash. Really, there should be 
 more variety in the jobs you do, but as a rule they work quite well as simple and compelling mini 
 games.
  
  Finally a lot of your Fable 2 time will be spent, shopping, impressing locals, interacting with 
 the citizens of Albion, seducing, scaring and singing too them as you go. This aspect of the game 
 is probably the most refined and really my only argument for this part of the game as you can see 
 in the "story/character" section of this review being that the people you interact with are fairly 
 wooden and similar.
  
  
  Graphics & Sound
  Visually you can't get a lot better than Fable 2, the environments in particular are jaw droppingly 
 beautiful to look at and I found myself taking time to admire the scenery. The characters themselves 
 have a few glitches when it comes to their hair and clothing from time to time, but nothing major 
 and for the most part they look good too.
  
  The soundtrack is a good one too, a good range of well written music accompanied by some great 
 voice acting by some British TV celebrities. 
  
  
  
  Length 
  The game took me around 20 hours to complete but only about 5 of that was the main quest, the rest 
 was all side quests, interacting with characters and working. The game is really what you make 
 of it in terms of time you spend on it.
  
  
  
  Verdict
  The additions of being able to be female, more involved quests, improved combat, and a better scale 
 of aging make Fable 2 everything Fable should have been. Unfortunately Fable 2 should have been 
 more than that and mainly the weak main plot stops that from being so. Lets hope Fable 3 is everything 
 Fable 2 should be..
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: hand4hire
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 14, 2008 6:47 pm PT
Review:  Coming into Fable 2 i had some expectations and most of them were met, however, a few weren't. 
 This in no means makes this game a bad game. Actually in reallity this game is great and has a 
 good storyline, which is important in a game (especially an RPG) . The gameplay was simalar to the 
 original Fable, but altogether different also. The melee is still the button mashing as in the 
 first, but the addition of guns make the ranged very cool to throw into your attack. While you're 
 cutting up some bandit and finishing him off you can shoot under your arm the bandit coming up 
 behind you to help his friend. The magic on the other hand I didn't like when i fisrt stated to 
 play the game, but it grew on me and soon i began to like it. The ability to have a family is cool, 
 however, soon they become a pain and you never go see them. The good and evil in this game is the 
 same with the addition with a pure or corrupt meter. So in reality you could be evil but be pure, 
 or good but corrupt. Pure things include lowering the rent on your tenants, or increase it to be 
 corrupt. The only really bad thing i have to say about this game is I was disappointed about the 
 absence of armor, but i understood it with this game being 500 years in the future. This game is 
 a great game to get in your collection and to play over and over God knows i have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yduc
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 14, 2008 1:11 pm PT
Review:  in my opinion fable 2 is a good game it gets more addictive as you play but after you finish the 
 game 2 or 3 times (like i have ) it does get a bit boring.
  
  PROS
  good graphics. laugh out loud comedy. one button combat is very simple. bigamy is very fun. the 
 romance system was fun except all the gay men running into my house when i have been sleeping with 
 my wife.
  
  CONS
  the dog i only used it to find dig spots which had nothing good in them and if it wasnt finding 
 treasure i forgot it was there. the voice acting was off but the voices themselves where good. 
 the storyline was a big let down i completed it in about 10 hours first try. the story plot is 
 also a let down i mean Sparrows sister gets killed Sparrow wants revenge he kills guy the end. 
 they could of thought of something a little better than revenge. the characters where to shallow 
 i didnt get attached to anyone except hammer i liked her for some rason.
  
  overall i thought fable 2 was fable with a slight update. if anyone wants help with fable 2 please 
 ask me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eliminator429
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 14, 2008 12:42 pm PT
Review:  his game is like runescape. no im just kidding its a great game.......... like runescape.
  
  
  can have sex with every one, hell one time i did three girls and one guy at the same time. 
 THATS RIGHT THE SAME TIME!!!!
  
  the story line is short but if you add in side quest it will go for ever, not as long as runescape 
 but pretty long.
  
  some of the best things about it are, its like runescape and you can have sex with people, thats 
 what most of you fat ass's want any way. that way you can go jack off to you 3D guy or girl as 
 you pound the **** out of them.
  
  im saying its like runescape becouse of the fact that alot of the quest are close to what some 
 of the ones in runescape are like there just not as repetitive.
  
  some of the things you 40 year old virgins are going to hate about fable is. you cant have sex 
 with kids..... thats right you cant so i know all you pedophiles are going to be pissed. but o 
 well
  
  one more thing your going to hate its not a mmorpg. so you wont be able to go find kids and get 
 them in 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WeWerePirates
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 14, 2008 12:12 pm PT
Review:  Ninja Gaiden had better combat than Fable... bear with me on this... that's no surprise because 
 that's what Ninja Gaiden was all about, it had a deeper combat system, more complex, more buttons 
 dedicated to swinging a sword. Ninja Gaiden was a masterpiece in that respect, crisp, precise responsive. 
 But Fable's combat was aright, it did it's job, it didn't do anything insane, it was even fun.
 
  
  So Peter Molyneux gives a talk at the Game Developers Conference about how it's possible to do 
 combat on one button and for the player to be able to do whatever they wanted. I think a lot of 
 folks were dubious about that, my personal reaction was: What about Ninja Gaiden? How could it 
 be possible to achieve that level of responsiveness and precision using a system where the length 
 the button is held decides the players intention? When another game has got it so right it sets 
 the bench mark for when you think you have a good idea. Fable 2 is the end result of this one button 
 combat system. So how does it play? Worse than Fable's combat. This really is no surprise, it works 
 exactly as you would think it would work, what is surprising is that it made it into such a high 
 profile game. It's an interesting idea that deserved a try but when it was so clearly a step back 
 it should have been removed. The same goes for how spells are mapped to the controls, shifting 
 between spells on the fly is awkward so it's best to just stick with one set up or pause the game 
 and change it.
  
  The reason I've written so much on this seemingly minor thing is that it's indicative of a problem 
 seemingly endemic of this game: failure to let go of big ideas when they just don't work.
  
  If you've played Fable then Fable 2 for the most part offers more of the same (except with 
 worse combat) . If not what you get is fairly short but entertaining main quest, a smattering of 
 side quests, a fairly customisable hero, and some distracting but ultimately pointless ways you 
 can interact with the world. The play fields are much larger than Fable, you are less stuck on 
 a path but this still isn't a Bethesda roam'em'up. Fable 2 makes some positive changes, you don't 
 scar every time you get hit, you don't age a year every time you buy an ability and you don't have 
 a limited magic bar (which recovered painfully slowly) . There are some things the game doesn't 
 fix, there is no meaningful sense of good or evil, it's mostly just cosmetic (in fairness there 
 isn't the de-aging glitch that encouraged abusing the order of good evil for personal benefit of 
 the original) , buying abilities effect how you look in a fixed way so everyone tends towards the 
 same look in that respect rather than being a reflection of the individual. In some ways it's a 
 step back, aforementioned combat being a major way, removal of healing magic turning it into potionfest.
 
  
  Another particular baffling decision is not allowing multiple saves. I know this intended to raise 
 the stakes when the player is forced to make a decision but it's a move that backfires. First because 
 it fails to take into account the existence of online guides, players are going to protect themselves 
 by reading guides instead. Second because that's not the only reason players might keep multiple 
 saves, for example, protection against glitches. Fable 2 isn't especially glitchy but it has a 
 few annoying or game breaking glitches. This wouldn't be a problem if you had multiple saves. The 
 problem is that fable encourages the player to spend tens of hours on their game, one particularly 
 bad glitch and you lose the lot.
  
  Another change that doesn't work so well is the removal of the minimap. In it's place is glowing 
 trail, the problem is that sometimes the glowing trail is not sure where it wants to take you and 
 just gives up. If the player needs something to help them find their way then why include a flakey 
 method instead of the tried and tested method. It's just going out the way to be different at the 
 expense of making an enjoyable game.
  
  I think there is one thing about the game that surprised me is that I like the dog. I thought it 
 was going to be annoying, but it's not but then again it adds very little to the overall experience.
 
  
  I could go on talking about the problem like, unintuitive fatness mechanics, bugs, lack of variety 
 of items, needing pub games for achievements, boring side jobs, ease of acquiring gold, but I think 
 I've made my point: this game has a lot of flaws, some minor, some serious, some painfully avoidable. 
 Also perhaps it's not an entirely fair representation of the game.
  
  I bought and Xbox to play the original Fable, in some ways that game failed miserably. Again it 
 had it's fair share of flaws and it failed to achieve the rather ambitious goal it set out to in 
 any meaningful way but I wasn't disappointed. It was a fun game if you took it for what it was. 
 I enjoyed it so much I bought it a second time for lost chapters and played through it all again. 
 Fable 2 retains much of charm and fun of the original, improves upon it some aspects, it's still 
 basically an enjoyable game. However I find myself far less forgiving of Fable 2's flaws as they 
 so often are things it's predecessor got right. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sharpy505
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 14, 2008 12:03 pm PT
Review:  SH*T
  Fun at first until you complete it (in about a day) then you'll realise how truly crappy it is 
  EF RE FR F RF R F R FR F R F R FR F R FR F R F R F RF R F R F RF RR F R F RF R F FR FR F R F 
 R R RRF R FR F RF R F R FR FF R GY H Y H YH Y H YH Y HV J U U J D E EE E ED D E EF R R T G T GTY 
 TH Y HY N H B DV DC X S A WW EW RG TG T GT G T ES S SD D E u u uu u u u uuu u uu u u uu u u u u 
 u u u u u u u uu u u uu uu u u u u u uu u u u u uEHSKWGT RE RF RRG G TG EW R SF R W S SW WR R SR 
 F WF R FS R FS RWSF W TG YH T H T VH TY H TYHV T Y H T YH VT H T E D ED DWED AW A W F TR GG TG 
 T YH Y H YH Y H YH UU J U H S RSF R F RF RS F E SW R SW R SW S GSWT TG TT G T G TG T GT G T GT 
 G T GT G T G T G TG T G T GT TG T G TG T G GT G TG T H Y H UYH U JU HTGR E T RGF ER F T THG FR 
 GF R D R DS RE D TR E FD T RE YT TR ED S RE DS TRR E D R A D SR E DS R E R GT RT R F DD TR R E 
 F T T GT G TG R RD G R RY D T HRT DDDDD W ES WE W EF FE E u u THERES YOUR FEKIN 100 WORDS ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MaxxGothic
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 13, 2008 1:55 pm PT
Review:  I'd played Fable on the PC and had great memories of all the things you could do.
  
  Fable 2 appeared to be a just successor. Graphics, voice actors, loved the dog and ever a simplified 
 expression and will system.
  
  Then I completed the main storyline. That's when I noticed how wrong it had gotten. 
  
  The 
 weapons were decent, but the list was limited and it was possible to kill a balverine without a 
 silver augment now.
  
  The fights were button mashing fun. Then it hit me. There were no boss fights. Nothing on the scale 
 of the old battle with Twinblade or Jack of Blades. The Crucible worked well, but I found myself 
 missing the Arena.
  
  After clearing the main storyline as a "Good Guy" I took a shot at being bad and found it draining. 
 
  
  A great game and some of the side quest help push you a bit farther, just it's missing the longevity 
 of its predecessor. I wonder how many might go hunting for the orignal to see what came before 
 this one? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: elvis12345
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 12, 2008 7:03 pm PT
Review:  I certainly had fun playing Fable 2, I still am actually. It's a good game, but not quite what 
 I was hoping for. First, I was seriously hoping Fable 2 would revolve around the Old Kingdom. They 
 certainly laid the ground for an excellent world and story in the first game. Who knows, maybe 
 Fable 3 will be set there? I can hope. But w/e, onto Fable 2...
  
  When it was announced several years ago I was quite excited. Fable was one of my favorite games 
 for the Xbox. Fable 2 unfortunately didn't live up to everything it was supposed to be. I remember 
 PM saying that your actions would have serious repercussions on the world, but it just didn't feel 
 that way. For example, the gypsy camp. PM said if you destroyed it that the camp would eventually 
 disappear, but didn't happen. There were a few spots, like whether to make Old Town a dump or a 
 nice area, or the destruction of the Temple of Light. The armor and weapons I felt were not nearly 
 as good as the original. Another thing I didn't like was how we didn't get to see things from the 
 original game, such as Witchwood or the Northern Wastes. I was really expecting to be able to play 
 these areas again. The story was absolutely lacking in Fable 2. It was a decent story actually, 
 but they didn't go nearly into as much depth as they could have. There were a lot of questions 
 left at the end. The Good and Evil paths were unbalanced. It was a hell of a lot easier to be evil, 
 but maybe they were going for that? 
  
  An a good note, the dog is an excellent addition. It was creative and quite a bit of fun actually. 
 The job and quest system was also good. Money making was a little easy but better than the first 
 game. The world was quite well designed I felt. There was a lot to explore but I still would have 
 liked to have seen some areas from the original. Character customization was good, and so was the 
 ability to have a family. They tried a lot of things in this game, and many worked pretty well 
 I have to say. The death system was alright, but needs some improvement. There were actually a 
 lot of moments in Fable 2 which were quite funny. 
  
  Umm, can't think of what else I can add. I had high hopes for this game, but they just weren't 
 met. I was hoping for a game as good as Oblivion (which is an amazing game in my opinion) but no 
 go there. Hopefully Lionhead will make a Fable 3 (I hope based in the old Kingdom) and they will 
 be able to do everything they wanted to. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: undyingRuin
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 12, 2008 5:25 pm PT
Review:  I didn't play the first one, so i can't compare them, but i love this game. It keeps me entertained 
 even when i'm working (lol) . I think the economy is well balanced and affordable and the money 
 is not too hard to come by. I also love the fact that you can buy any shop or house in the game. 
 The game mechanics blow my mind. The only thing i really have to complain about is the long load 
 times. And i wish it was easier to find specific shops/vendors within cities. I haven't beat the 
 main storyline yet, but it's not that bad IMO.
  
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dante1st
Rating: 5
Date: Nov 12, 2008 4:15 pm PT
Review:  Actually, I've seen PS2 games that looked better than this. This is a graphically deficient game 
 that looks like it belongs from last generation. This is a flawed game, and the graphics are only 
 the beginning. 
  
  I could still enjoy this game even with average graphics had the game been playable. This is almost 
 unplayable due to the LOAD TIMES and unintuitive interface. It's literally impossible to move freely 
 about the world without having a load screen pop up every few minutes, makes the world feel very 
 compartmentalized. It gets very annoying because it happens so much, and for so long. 
  
  Here's the number one thing that makes me HATE the game, beyond the point of having minor grievances 
 against annoying issues, and actually drove me to quit playing it altogether: there's lag time 
 when you PAUSE the game. When you press pause, you don't immediately go to the pause menu, there's 
 a 1-2 second delay as you hear your disc loudly spinning in your Xbox. Why does that matter so 
 much? Well, other than the fact that it SHOULDN'T be lagging from such a basic command as pressing 
 PAUSE, everything you want to do is accessed from the pause menu, from figuring out where you want 
 to go (since the game lacks an on screen map or compass, which is a horrible idea) , selecting items, 
 clothing, spells, etc. This is a screen you'll find yourself going to very often, and having it 
 lag is just inexcusable. I don't understand how this isn't seen and corrected during play testing. 
 
  
  Some flaws: 
  
  --It's way too easy to make money in this game. At first I was happy, like, "yeah, I get money 
 every few minutes from shops that I own, PLUS I get money when I'm not playing, from rent from 
 my tenants? Nice!" Then the amount of money I started making became so unbalanced it felt like 
 a cheat code or something. 
  
  -Fighting is too easy. With only one button to attack, and no mana meter, it's just simplistic 
 fighting catered to little kids.
  
  --Treasure chests and digging spots are completely useless. And by proxy, doesn't that make your 
 dog useless, since that's all he does anyway? Unless the content of treasure chests changes drastically 
 from the point in the game I stopped playing, these necklaces, rings, and amulets are almost not 
 even worth veering off the path of the magical golden trail to bother opening or digging up. 500 
 gold? Compared to the no less than 20,000 gold I'm bound to make overnight? What a joke. I could 
 see if they put some unique articles of clothing to be found to reward you with. 
  
  --Don't know about everyone else, but the golden trail is so easy to abuse as you hold sprint and 
 run to your next objective. Why would I want to the game to hold my hand and tell me where to go 
 EVERY STEP OF THE WAY? Just equip me with a damn on screen map and let me go my way, and explore. 
 
  
  --I only have the perspective of the female character's voice since that's who I chose, but could 
 her voice acting have been WORSE? When she says "yeah!" when finding treasure and things, it sounds 
 downright embarrassing. It's how an amateur would sound on a first take of a school play tryout, 
 before being corrected by someone to sound more natural. She's so inaudible too, like she barely 
 wants to say the line or something. 
  
  --Your guide/mentor (whatever she is) in the game, Theresa, just comes off to me as INCREDIBLY 
 clich. Especially her voice for some reason. Just comes off as a one-dimensional, typical, wise, 
 mysterious, shadowy type of character. We've seen this person tons of times in movies and other 
 games.
  
  --This whole game mechanic of using expressions on people feels like a poor man's Sims. You can 
 literally get anyone and everyone to either love or hate you within 45 seconds. And the fact that 
 you have to come to a complete stop and initiate the couple second long or longer animation, it 
 makes the whole thing feel like a chore. It's not FUN in any way.
  
  --As mentioned before, the menus suck. In general, navigation sucks period. When you're buying 
 things from a shop, there's a pop up that you have to hit the A button to confirm you've bought 
 it, before you can buy your next item. This is such a complete hassle and time consuming. I can't 
 just easily go down the list and buy my celery and tofu by hitting Down, A, Down, A, instead, I 
 have to wait for the stupid game to pop up with the OK button before I'm allowed to move on. When 
 you have a bunch of small things like this, it adds up and really shows the low quality effort 
 they put into the game as a whole. The game has great ideas and scope, but they never REFINED any 
 of it. It's such a lazy and half-hearted effort, and a technically deficient product. 
  
  --The only thing I'll remember this game for is the animation of the dog. His mannerisms are so 
 realistic, it's almost like they motion captured a real dog in various states of mood. Not just 
 the way he moves, but the way in which he reacts to you yourself. 
  
  --RPG? Nope. Fallout 3 is a true RPG, that's the game I traded this game in for, and I only regret 
 that I bought Fable in the first place.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: tonicmole
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 12, 2008 1:45 pm PT
Review:  Fable 2 really does few things that the original didn't. Graphically it is a low budget mess with 
 mediocre visuals and poor to terrible animations. Gameplay wise is passable ,but far from the what 
 we have come to expect from the Xbox 360. All in all Fable 2 feels like a beefed up port of Fable 
 rather then a true sequel. The few new aspects like getting fat if you eat and using condoms, is 
 just as odd as it sounds. So little effort was put into every aspect that it fails to really succeed 
 in any way. Not only that but the developer expects the player to trudge through an hour or two 
 of boring prolog just to get to the nitty gritty, and once your there the million and one poorly 
 laid out menu's and bizarre controls hold the game back every inch of the way. The last straw comes 
 when you realize your 360 is chugging to keep the game going! Why, I don't know. The graphics are 
 last generation, and the AI and character interaction is embarrassing. In the end Fable 2 could 
 be a descent bargain bin find in a year or two, but at $60 it's a joke. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xxghostxx93
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 12, 2008 9:03 am PT
Review:  I was so excited when they announced a Fable 2. They first game was fun. Pretty short and sweet. 
 Then they started making all these promises. The games gonna be full free roam, complete customization, 
 no linear path, your choices affect the game. Basically none of this existed in the game. This 
 was basically the first Fable with beefed up graphics. I was very disappointed. There's only about 
 6 outfits to choose from and no armor. There's about 6 different weapons too, and the special ones 
 you do the quests for a pretty cool looking but they are no better than the ones you buy in the 
 shops. And my biggest let down is that it is not a free roaming game. Oblivion was a free roaming 
 game. This is not even close. And lastly, there are about 15 quests total. Really just doesn't 
 seem worth my time. It was still fun to play through the first night I got it though, but now I 
 don't know what to do with it. In my book, it's a good rent. Not worth $60. Maybe they can get 
 it right the next time with Fable 3, if they even get to make one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cdidman19
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 12, 2008 7:02 am PT
Review:  First off I was so pumped up for this game when I got 360. I really enjoyed Fable I, although it 
 wasn't exactly what I expected.
  
  Fable II is really Fable 1.5. There isn't much more to it. You can buy more shops and homes that 
 you can earn a profit from. You can decorate it to improve the rent you receive, or change what 
 you'll charge people at your shops. You have a dog that works well in the game. The best is that 
 he'll find treasure chests and dig spots. You can train your dog to be better in battle, so he'll 
 jump on and attack foes that you knock down. Sometimes this works. I've notice that when you fight 
 a large group, the dog will attack some of the fallen guys, but then just doesn't do anything to 
 others. Still, the dog is a nice touch.
  
  Every town seems the same. A little different look, a few different looking people, but the same 
 reactions, same conversations, same things to do in every town. There are different quests that 
 pop up and jobs that are available form time to time. Jobs like woodcutter, bartender and blacksmith 
 become some repetitive and boring, you'll try them once, get promoted a few times and then probably 
 never do anything with them again. The best way to earn money in this game is to earn enough to 
 buy homes and shops. You rent out the homes and raise prices in your shops. Every 5 minutes you 
 will get your rent or income, even when the game is off. After you rent out around 8-10 houses, 
 buy up 5 or 6 shops, you'll never have to worry about money again.
  
  Fighting is pretty much the same. Just push buttons, hold in for stronger attacks, and try to block 
 a few attacks here and there. You have spell casting back and now you can have ranged weapons like 
 guns and riffles. In my opinion, these added gun really take away from the whole "swords and arrows" 
 feel of the game. It becomes so EASY to just use your guns and pick off monsters and goons from 
 a distance, you will go through many battles and never have to use a sword. As you level up, you 
 can add an ability to zoom in on certain parts of the body, such as zoom in on a hand with a weapon 
 to knock out that weapon, or better yet, the head to insta kill a enemy. The head shot NEVER fails, 
 which makes no reason to shoot anywhere else. Once again, making it pointless to engage in hand 
 to hand combat.
  
  The main story line is just plain DUMB and simple. I completed this in 6 hours of play. You run 
 around trying to find three heroes to help you defeat the main enemy who killed your sister in 
 the beginning. After you do this, I was all ready for some big battle, fight to the finish, hero's 
 vs villains... well first I go into a dream world where I am a kid again, shooting at bottles and 
 kicking chickens. Then I'm off to collect the all mighty weapon to defeat the main villain... the 
 music box. That's right, a music box. The three hero's I've rescued, battled with and formed a 
 plan to stop this main bad guy are now useless. Easily taken and do nothing. Here's a spoiler. 
 You simply walk up to the villain and hold the A button to use the music box, which takes away 
 his powers. Then you walk up and hit him once or twice and he falls to his death... that's it. Final 
 battle takes 3 minutes.
  
  It's a fun game for a while, then repetitive and long load times make it very difficult to pick 
 up and play. The game, like Fable I continues after you complete the main quest, but what's the 
 point? The hype on this game was too high, it doesn't live up to it at all. It certainly isn't 
 better then Oblivon and maybe slightly better then Fable I. Wait on this one, go get it when it's 
 around $30. Obviously, people that want to play online will probably get more out of it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: anticap
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 12, 2008 5:53 am PT
Review:  This is my Fable 2 review. Opinions within.
  
  Graphics:
  
  I was greatly impressed by the graphics on this game. Lionhead have managed to keep the cartoony 
 charm of the first game, while managing to make the world look slightly grittier and more realistic. 
 Some of the enemies can seem more cartoony than their surroundings (such as Trolls) , but more things 
 manage to blend together to create a beautifully crafted world. There are some minor graphical 
 issues such as NPCs walking through each other, and corpses sticking to the ground and then twitching 
 with an insane nervous reaction but none of these are game breaking. There are also some minor 
 clipping issues with clothes and weapons (especially as you increase in strength) . The animations 
 are nice, but not revolutionary.
  
  Sound/Music:
  
  I really like the soundtrack to this game, so much so I'm considering purchasing it. The background 
 music blends in to give the world a nice fantasy feel without being too intrusive. The battle music 
 fades in and out of the normal music well. The sound effects sound like they should, with swords 
 actually sounding like swords, Balverine growls sounding like growls and spells making enough pops, 
 fizzes and bangs to satisfy anyone. The voice acting is very well done, with special commendations 
 to Stephen Fry and Zo Wanamaker who pull their characters off superbly.
  
  Gameplay:
  
  The gameplay is smooth and simple, just how it should be. The level up system is pretty much 
 identical to the original games, albeit with minor differences such as the lack of a Guile skill 
 and the ability to spend experience anywhere. Good, evil, corruption and purity work well, but 
 have balancing issues. I managed to play through the entire game only being good and pure and never 
 filled my alignment bars, but I also made a pure evil character and managed to be 100% corrupt 
 and evil before I finished the first hero quest. The minigames for jobs are slightly over simplified 
 and repetitive, but they serve their purpose well enough. The dog does take some challenge away 
 from the game, pointing you in the direction of all treasures and dig spots, but he does manage 
 to serve other useful purposes. Fights are just as easy, if not easier than the first game, with 
 the dog making them even more simple.
  
  Story:
  
  I've heard mixed reactions to the story, but personally I enjoyed it. I will admit however that 
 it's far too short and ends too abruptly leaving more questions than answers. The side quests have 
 some nice little story lines however.
  
  Conclusion:
  
  Lionhead have managed to pull of another superb RPG that is equal, if not superior to the original. 
 It's highly addictive (I got hooked hunting for silver keys) and fun, but it does have some minor 
 flaws and is a bit too easy and short for me to give it a perfect 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ARRunner
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 20, 2008 6:52 pm PT
Review:  First of all, i was a huge fan of the first Fable i thought it was great. Then here comes along 
 Fable 2, considered to be a contender for GOTY. Possible, but there are better games out there 
 im afraid. Fable 2 lived up to most of the neux's promises. Everything is cranked up and everything 
 that was complained about the first game has been pushed into this one. The combat feels great, 
 i personally loved the way the sword sifted through people and the guns were a great way to break 
 up a unbalanced fight. In saying that the magic propeties have taken a different approach. One 
 button .One spell. bit iffy i say.
  
  Now enough of the combat, to me this felt like a Fable/oblivion hybrid. Sure you can roam around 
 Albion but the Load times are tedious and are almost as bad as that stupid Valkyrie form Too Human. 
 But really there is so much to do, so many ways to make money. Get a job, raise multiple families, 
 go treasure hunting, train your dog, Massicre a village if you really want to. But underneath this 
 greatness lie one of the most important factors of a RPG, The story. The story is almost as exciting 
 as Halo 3, and once you finnally reach the end you, you feel like there should be another 10 hours 
 or more. it left me wanting more. 
  
  So really its a great game, shame about the story and length.
  
  Lets hope the 3rd one will 
 live up to the Hype 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dancoia
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 12, 2008 1:49 am PT
Review:  This game is one of the worst games i have ever played. It feels like im playing a more polished 
 up version of the first fable they havent added that many new features. One of the main problems 
 this game faces is that its way too short the story after you have completed there just nothing 
 but repetive quests that you can keep doing or you can make money until you have bought every shop 
 or house in the game. The only other thing you can do in this game is start a family but to be 
 quite honest if you like this feature then your probly the type person who enjoys sim games way 
 too much. Starting family is stupid the emote system just doesnt work proberly when comes to communicating 
 with the people in fable 2. Overall i would only recomend this game for pweople who are hardcore 
 fans of the series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brysterdude
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 20, 2008 6:37 pm PT
Review:  Fable 2 is by far, my most favorite game in the world at this point in time (Right in front of 
 Bio Shock, and Wii Music!) 
  
  In Fable 2, you get the choice between being a boy or a girl, being lawful or chaotic, and being 
 evil or good! Choices everywhere, and the journey, no the adventure never stops!
  
  The game is played in free-roam (And believe me, Fable 2 takes "free-roam" to a whole new meaning) ! 
 And at all times, you have your trusty companion, man's best friend, your furry canine *Insert 
 name here* (Yes, you get to name it) You can teach your dog new tricks, and it finds treasure for 
 you! AMAZING!
  
  Surprisingly, the story, I expected more.
  (Did I mention Co-Op!?)
  
  But sadly... Sequels are never as good as the real deal... Fable 1 was a lot more fun, and 
 a lot more challenging. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigfatpanda
Rating: 5
Date: Nov 11, 2008 7:11 pm PT
Review:  I really wanted to like Fable 2 but did not get engrossed at all. I guess I don't like the little 
 trail lights leading me where to go all the time. And then you have to make faces or emotions and 
 if you hit the wrong thing at the wrong time something changes in your records blah blah blah - 
 I found it quite boring so far. I mean, I am running around a city doing odd jobs for money. I 
 need a big thinking game - a big quest. This seems small and the graphics are not really that great. 
 I am not a fan - yet. I may keep going with it for another day or so but I guess I was expecting 
 something like Oblivion and it does not even come close. It is really not fun so far. Am I the 
 only one thinking this? I read the reviews and everyone seems to like it a lot more than myself. 
 So, rent it is my suggestion before you buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aper26
Rating: 4
Date: Nov 11, 2008 4:49 pm PT
Review:  so here's fable 2... Peter Molenuex has done it again, the not-keeping of prom ises really shows 
 through this time. so you start off as some kid who lives on the streets and go through a basic 
 tutorial and then after about half an hour you start playing the game for real as an adult (and 
 theres a dog) . Now PM said that we would feel genuine love for the dog but... we don't. And why 
 not? because it just doesn't do anything, it just stands around barking so we would proberly be 
 better off without it. 
  
  something else that really grinds my gears about this game is that its repetitive, bland and short. 
 having one button combat just makes you want to fall asleep when fighting and alot of the places 
 look the same. the game just seems to lack substance and immersion. you cant get immersed into 
 a game when it has bad glitches and bugs and annoying townfolk running up to you all the time and 
 saying "hey hero! what's going on?" because i doubt that would happen... EVAAAARRR! the game is 
 also painfully short and can be beaten in about 10 hours and the story is boring. it basically 
 follows the same structure as fable 1.
  
  there also isnt enough variety in the clothing and weapons options. none of the clothes give you 
 defense or HP boosts so you might as well run around naked the whole time (at least that would 
 be funny) which brings me onto my next point, humour. i thought the fable games were supposed to 
 be funny but the funniest thing in this is annoying women saying stuff in funny voices (for you 
 if your american and fat) but for me, being English, the voices just arnt funny. the weapons are 
 also pathetic with choice. i got throught the game with 2 weapons i bought from the blacksmith 
 in bowerstone at the beginning of the game and didnt change at all.
  
  so yeh thats my two pence on fable 2, dissapointing but good to pass the time while we wait for 
 better games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cmmarine2
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 11, 2008 3:03 pm PT
Review:  Fable 2 is an excellent addition to xbox 360 collections everywhere, and to those who like never 
 ending games like Elder Scrolls. The gameplay of the game is solid, in which the combat system 
 has actually been made easier for fighting in usage of will and ranged weapons. Blocking and rolling 
 has been made harder though as blocking is holding the melee button versus using the Y- button 
 like in Fable. The graphics and sounds are stunning and have made great improvements since the 
 original. The biggest problem for me about Fable 2 is some glitches found in the game, which is 
 mainly the marriage system. 
  One of the glitches I found in the game is that anytime I set my marital home in Old bowerstone, 
 I have to manually go to Market road to see my wife, because the game will refuse to fast travel 
 my character there. Also, I for some reason cannot seem to keep a wife for very long. I constantly 
 visit my wife, as well as give gifts to my wife and kids, and for some reason after a short time, 
 they leave me, saying I was a horrible husband. Just today, I went to sleep, saved my game, and 
 turned it off. When I got back on later, my wife divorced me, and that was the end of that. Other 
 minor glitches I have encountered are when I vault and land on a uneven surface, it takes me a 
 few seconds for him to get out of falling and land correctly. 
  But other than these few problems, the game itself is amazing, and an excellent game to have as 
 I said before. I think Fable fans have come to enjoy what this game has put out and can not wait 
 till the Fable to come out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mikey_pp
Rating: 1.5
Date: Nov 11, 2008 2:56 pm PT
Review:  I started out loving this game. Until I defeated the big boss in the main story line. Before I 
 got a chance to see the results of my actions, everything froze. 
  
  After several restarts, disk cleanings and memory clearing, I tried a new character. To hell with 
 the hours spent on the first one.
  
  Now I can't get past the first mission without the game freezing at the same point each time I 
 try.
  
  Lionhead studios has apologised for the bugs and assures their customers that a patch should be 
 ready in Mid December to fix a glitch a lot of people have complained about. No mention of the 
 issues I'm having which mirror other complaints just in a different section of the game.
  
  Do not buy this game for some time.
  
  I will never buy a Lionhead product again. I can not 
 believe they would release a game with this many problems.
  
  If you are reading this and feel I am overreacting. Please feel free to check their forums.
  
 
  http://community. lionhead. com/forums/1/3214837/ShowThread. aspx 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hakusu
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 11, 2008 1:07 pm PT
Review:  Fable 2 starts out in a very similar way to the original, with a great tragedy for your character. 
 After one of the many amazing CG moments, "your story begins" and you can begin shaping Albion 
 as you like.
  
  The combat system in Fable 2 is a little different than the original in that you have to earn just 
 about every attribute in the game. Even the dodging and blocking skills aren't readily available 
 to your young hero. But once you level up enough you can become the brutal warrior you were in 
 the original, or something close to it.
  
  The newest addition to the game is your lovable pet companion, whom you may name anything you want 
 when you give it a new collar to wear. Your "best friend" will also change depending on your moral 
 standing. If you're a true hero your dog will reflect that, if not, well you'll see.
  
  As good as this game is it still has it's problems (all games do) . 
  
  When you are in the 
 heat of combat, you may find yourself targeting on to a differen't enemy than the one you want 
 to fight. Also, those fun finishing moves that everyone loves are few and far between. I also found 
 that at times your dog will bark for a dig spot and then forget it completely. There is also another 
 weird glitch when jumping off cliffs and falling down rocks, your character gets stuck in a falling 
 position and sort of skates across the ground at all times after. A quick save and reset remedies 
 this but it is still quite nerve racking to see if you haven't saved in some time. (If interested 
 in this glitch, I filmed it and will be more then glad to show it.)
  
  The co-op part of the game is fun but the majority of the people I've played with really hate being 
 "just a henchman". I'm sure an update will be released in the future so that you can bring your 
 developed hero into another players game proudly.
  
  Overall this game was worth the wait, although it was way too short. I found it to be worth the 
 wait and the $70 for the Limited Edition. However, if you really need that extra dungeon, the Wreckager, 
 and Halo suit/sword, don't expect it to change the game drastically. The extra dungeon is nothing 
 special and the Wreckager is a great weapon if you're evil. As for the energy sword, 3 augment 
 slots! 
  
  If you're still on the ropes about Fable 2, just buy it and see what the big fuss is about. You'll 
 lose 20 hours of your life, but in a good way. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Remydee
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 11, 2008 6:50 am PT
Review:  After playing Olbivion IV twice now, spending about 400 hours playing, I rate Oblivion IV as the 
 best Adventure RPG EVER!! When I was looking for something similar, I thought I'd give Fable 2 
 a go.
  Fable 2 is not quite as amazing, but I am getting addicted to it. What I like the most about Fable 
 2 is the fact that it's very real to life. Like eating too many pies, for example, will make your 
 character fat. Once you've set a course, either good or evil, you have to live with the outcome, 
 there is no turning back. The fight sequences and the magic are very well done. Choice of weapons 
 also rates quite highly.
  The only thing that I really dont like is the fact that your character can't jump, unless prompted. 
 I would like to have had more freedom to roam and go boulder hopping as it were. 
  
  An exellent RPG nontheless. It really is a fantastic 'free will' game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ironcheflove
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 10, 2008 11:07 pm PT
Review:  I felt like I was playing an easier version of the 1st Fable. I'm glad I rented this game and kept 
 it for a couple wks, because it was way to easy to though as good, netural, and bad in that time. 
 My time is better spent playing Fallout 3, instead of playing the same old game as I did on my 
 old Xbox. If you haven't played the first Fable then your at least get some enjoyment from the 
 slightly flasher version. For god sake this isn't 100 words yet....  
 blah blah blah I wasted my time playing such a boring arse flasher version of Fable. My life is 
 filled with so much time for gaming that I have lost 100+ hrs playing Fable 2 thatcould have been 
 spent better else where. blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah 
 blah blah blah blah 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shantmaster_K
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 10, 2008 9:46 pm PT
Review:  Lionhead Studios release Fable II, the sequel to the #1 Action Role-Playing game for the Xbox. 
 
  
  The overall story is to revenge your sisters death by killing Lucien, the man who killed her. You 
 can decide to play as a boy or girl in the world of Albion, which is 10 times larger than the Albion 
 of the first Fable. At the beginning you are nothing, but a poor child. 
  
  As the game progresses, you will have many opportunities to make money. Money making in Fable II 
 is very easy. You can buy houses and rent them out and get payed every 5 minutes, even when your 
 not playing the game. Different business and stalls are available to buy and you can get the income 
 of the stores. Like the first Fable, you can choose whether to be good or evil. You can become 
 either by using expressions, good or evil quests, getting married, or killing or helping others. 
 
  
  You can also interact with the many citizens of Albion. By using different expressions, you can 
 make them like or hate you. You can impress a certain person to the point where they want to get 
 engaged. Give him or her the ring and you can get married and even have a child. You get to choose 
 whether or not to have unprotected or protected sex. So you can just fool around with your wife 
 or husband or be productive. Depending on your status of good or evil in the game, your child will 
 turn out the same. You can also have one or more spouses. You can be gay or straight. 
  
  Another popular feature of Fable II, is your dog. Your dog is one of the most important and fun 
 features of the game. You can name it and as you play the game, you will be able to unlock new 
 dog tricks such as play catch, roll over, etc... Your dog will also be able to attack your enemies, 
 but only when they are on the ground and still alive. Your dog is important because it will find 
 treasures that you may not see and locate dig spots that you will be able to dig up for different 
 treasures. 
  
  Another new feature to the game is co-op play. You can join over Xbox Live or play on the same 
 360. It is fun, but the only problem is that if you are the person joining the game you can't be 
 your own character. You get to pick from a certain number of default characters. A good or evil 
 guy or a good or evil girl. 
  
  Overall this game is amazing. It has an exciting story with many different quests to do while doing 
 the main story or after. You can have many different weapons of choice and be able to buy a home. 
 The game is also quite emotional, which you will experience throughout the game. The downfall of 
 the game is the co-op, which I talked about before, but rumor says that you will be able to use 
 your own character in the future. And another problem is a bit of glitches, but they don't hurt 
 the game at all. 
  
  "Who Will You Become?" 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bmassarani
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 10, 2008 9:36 pm PT
Review:  You take 1/3 action, 1/3 The Sims, and 1/3 fantasy role-playing and you end up with Fable 2 (I 
 think that is exactly what I would say to describe Fable 1 as well) . Fable 2 is a gorgeous game. 
 All the characters you meet are interesting, the locations are done well, the plot is.... ok, and 
 you even get a dog! 
  
  Fable 2 really does allow the player to tinker around with his/her morality in any way they see 
 fit. There are numerous options on how you want to live your day-to-day life and it is really fun 
 to play the game in different ways. BUT, when i say game, i really mean the social part of the 
 game. How do you want to live? Do you want multiple wives, to be a menace to everyone you meet, 
 abuse your ever faithful dog, or marry one wife, be a hero that everyone loves, and a true friend 
 to your four legged follower? In this aspect Fable 2 shines and excels. 
  
  But in the fact that this is also an action game, not just a social simulation, Fable 2 falls painfully 
 short (and when I mean short, i mean short) . The main quest last's about 5-6 hours, yes there are 
 multiple side-quests (add an aditional 5-6 hours) and a huge amount of replay value, but the true 
 story feels way too rushed. Add to the fact that you only fight around 5-8 different types of enemies 
 you really feel that the action / adventure part of the game lacked some attention. 
  
  Fable 2 was fun, heck it was even fun a second time, but the only reason you will replay the game 
 is to try out what the social aspect will be as the opposite of whatever you played as the first 
 time.
  
  The Good - great graphics, great voice-acting, a lot of freedom to play the way you want to.
 
  
  The Bad - painfully short main quest, frame-rate drops (especially during The Crucible)
  
  The Ugly - the combat system needed some additional tweaking (in the aiming department) and 
 the lack of variety when it comes to enemies. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: THEis1410
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 10, 2008 8:05 pm PT
Review:  I got Fable 2 the first day that it came out. This statement alone proves that I am a fan of the 
 Fable series. The graphics look amazing and the gameplay is similar to that of Fable 1. The story 
 was surprisingly good even if it was a short one. The professions in the game are an extremely 
 easy way of getting money (almost too easy) . Money is something very easy to attain in Fable 2; 
 I cannot say the same about Fable 1. Although this sounds like a good thing, sometimes being too 
 easy takes the fun out of it. People ask "Where's the challenge?". Even if your health bar reaches 
 0, instead of a game over screen, your character rises up and continues to fight. Your only penalty: 
 a scar. Side note: Ressurection Phials prevent scars from happening. The addition of the dog was 
 fun to have, but IMO, he got kind of annoying. Everywhere you went he was barking over treasure 
 and dig spots. Overall Fable 2 campaign was a very fun and intruiging game.
  
  Now onto the bad part about Fable 2. We were told that co-op gameplay would be attainable in Fable 
 2. Well, yes there is co-op, but it's POORLY designed. Instead of bringing your own character into 
 your friend's game, all you can bring is a "henchman." Your henchman has no toughness so he has 
 a maximum of 3 hits before he dies. Good thing only experience and money transfer back to your 
 friend's game or else his character would be covered in scars. If you can get around using low 
 level weapons and having miniscule health, here's something you cannot get around: THE CAMERA. 
 Why oh why must you and your friend share the same camera?! Your friend is limited to a 30 yard 
 range and vice versa. Yes, I said vice versa. Your friend can wander 30 yards in any direction 
 and even tho it's your main character, if your friend is 30 yards to the North and you want to 
 go South, too bad. My friend invited me to beat the Crucible with him. (Fable 1 is to Arena as 
 Fable 2 is to Crucible) . Needless to say I had the strength of a little boy. This was hardly the 
 co-op my friends and I expected. 
  
  I give Fable 2 a 9.0 because the game is really fun. There are a few bad aspects to it but overall 
 the game was well made. If the co-op let your friends bring in thier own characters and have you 
 NOT share the same camera, this game would probably recieve a 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shemrom
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 10, 2008 3:32 pm PT
Review:  This was the first game I went out at midnight to get it at the launch, and I was glad to be able 
 to play it. The game help curve my boredom and I had a good run with it till the end of the main 
 campaign.
  
  You start of as bother and sister, orphanage in the cold, winter streets of the main town. Although 
 it never tells you on what had happen to your parents and such like many other games that starts 
 off likes this, the beginning still starts you off choosing to be good or evil. After certain events 
 after completing the main part of childhood, mostly bad things. You are pick up by the gypsy fortuneteller 
 chick from the first game ( I heard something about that, I never did played the first one, although 
 I did heard some things about it.)
  She raise you into late teen where you and you dog ( It surprising how old dogs can get in this 
 game, by the end of the campaign, she/he was at least 25+ years old!) .
  Go out to fulfill you destiny for the Hero guild, and short time later recruiting three other heroes 
 to help defeat the formal king of Albion in his plot. I won't tell ya what his plans were, but 
 it comes back to the events 500 years earlier with the last game.
  
  You Dog will be your fateful companion for most of the game. Its main function is a treasure detector, 
 finding spots of buried goods in random places where you can go over where it digging at to scoop 
 it up. It can also spot treasure chests for you, which can be helpful if you not one of those guys 
 searching every spot of them, with or without you dog. But it can be hard not to like you dog when 
 it rolls over on it back and such after it helps you find your treasure The dog can also help you 
 finish off enemies for you if you knock them down first for it to attack. Attacking and treasure 
 searching can both be improve with books, up to 5 stars for both. You can also used books for teaching 
 you dogs tricks to join in with you when you do expressions. They don't have any real meaning for 
 them, since the character development in the game is quite weak with town fork. Yea sure they laugh 
 and they can get mad, but the lack of you own character ability to talk at all, prevents any personal 
 experience with NPCs in game. So there little use of the Expression wheel, unless for laughs and 
 to get merry of coarse 
  
  I never did the family part, I was a lone explorer fulfilling my destiny. I did bought a few shops 
 for easy money, as it is too easy to get tons of. You can start off early with jobs for all the 
 money needs, which are base off of easy mini games that kind of not challenging at all in later 
 levels. Guns and weapons can get expensed, but there no point to it if one can get the needed money 
 in about 10 minutes.
  
  The battle system is very simple, you got your melee weapons, crossbows and guns (I love guns, 
 expressly the one that have multiple chambers for fast firing ) and Will spells.
  
  The combat has easy control of each weapon. X button switch to your sword and attack with it. Y 
 for your gun. And you hold down B for learnt spells. The spell system works with a series of higher 
 chains. The higher the level of your spell, up to lvl 5- the longer you must hold the B button 
 to reach it. Every spell will starts off at lvl 1, but if you keep up grading it when getting exp, 
 it will up an level and get much better. The more you used your spells, the faster you can charge 
 that chain level to reach the next, which is quite neat.
  
  You gain EXP base on how you killed that enemy. If you kill him with melee, you get STR orbs floating 
 about, yellow for gun, and red for will spells. Green Orbs, are general Exp that will come out 
 on how fast you dealt away with those enemies They will even produce some of each from an enemy 
 if you did different attacks to him when he is still alive.
  
  You can collect those Orbs to use them to upgrade your self in Strength, Skill, and Will.
  The 
 Bule Orbs can be spent into improve Strength skills, your power, health, and new techniques with 
 melee attacks. Yellow Orb skills will improve accuracy, improve Melee speed, and allows you new 
 skills like barrow rolling out of harms way and then allows you to manually aim you gun and lastly 
 sub targeting. (Blowing heads off of the hallowmen is so fun.)
  The Will Orb allows you to upgrade your spells, and this part of upgrading is the cheapest, compare 
 upgrading the others at max. 400,000 + Blue Orbs for one skill anyone?
  
  I have never died in the game, althoue I came close to it. Some parts of the game will send wave 
 after wave of enemies at you- 20 and more at a time once a while. It can be fun and a blast, but 
 the lack of a good pushinment system when dyeing makes it kind of bland. The only thing that happens 
 to you when you dead is you get a new scar, and you come back to life right in front of you slayers 
 to fight again. The scars are permanent and it will affect people opinion of you nevagetety. If 
 you go to the dark side, the scars just improve you hostilely and fear of the people who sees you.
 
  
  The game has such a sense of humor thrown around, from the taunting gargoyles scatter about mocking 
 you to the items you can read it description of. The game sucks you end as you explore the greatly 
 expanded world of Albion. From the vast areas of farmland and gleaming forest, to the swamps of 
 dead and muck, with schell of hollowing scatter in the wind. I was glad to have played this game 
 and because of the ending, I am looking forward to the next installment of the story of Fable
 
  
  Brandon-
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Haze993
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 10, 2008 2:52 pm PT
Review:  Though graphics are adequate and there are a lot of glitches the game is absolutely amazing as 
 it offers very entertaining combat and other things too such as family and quests etc. The game 
 is packed with content and because of that the Fable 2 deserves a 9.8/10.
  
  One of the amazing things about Fable 2 which makes it different from other RPG games is that every 
 decision made has its consequences such as if a character is evil and kills villagers for pleasure 
 the character will begin to grow some very unnattractive horns. However, if the character is good 
 and pure the character will have a glowing halo on top of his head.
  
  The story and the plot of Fable 2 is also amazing as it is as though the gamer himself is going 
 through the very events.
  
  To Conclude, Fable 2 is a fantastic games apart from some glitches and I recommend it to all casual 
 and hardcore gamers 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cybersilver71
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 10, 2008 12:30 pm PT
Review:  I waited so long for this game and I do like it. I think that it's cool that I can play with my 
 friends online. I found I wrapped it too quickly. The story was really well done. I LOVE my dog, 
 he was the coolest dog ever. The bandits and the trolls were a bit harder to kill. Lucian was such 
 a cream puff to kill, if he truned into a dragon like Jack of Blades or was way harder to kill 
 that would have been cooler. I found that the maps were different if I went to a friends game, 
 that was cool. I guess that the maps are different depending on if you were good of evil. I want 
 to try to be evil the next time I play it. I find my "kids" were really annoying and I kinda wanna 
 kill them, but I'm sure my "wife" will divorce me if I do. There is still stuff that I can't find 
 but I am willing to take more time to figure it all out. The gargoyles and the silver keys are 
 hard to find and I like that. So, all in all I really enjoyed this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jayg88
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 10, 2008 11:43 am PT
Review:  First off, if you're a fan of the first Fable, you'll be a fan of Fable 2. It has all the good 
 qualities that Fable had and more. The graphics are pretty good, but they are made better by the 
 artistic design of the whole game. All the towns and landscapes are stunning and are unique to 
 the world of Fable. The gameplay is basically the same as it was in the first game, which is no 
 issue since it's so much fun. A couple of great additions to Fable 2 are that you can buy just 
 about any building in the game, even Castle Fairfax once you've beaten the main story. Speaking 
 of the story, I thought it was great. I enjoyed this game's storyline a lot more than the first 
 fable's. Another great addition is the dog that follows you. Gamespot put it perfectly when they 
 said you don't know how much you need it until it's gone. I also like the fact that you can have 
 children. If you want to be a good hero, this is a nice touch. Anyways, if you are a fan of the 
 first Fable, then I suggest you get this game, you won't be dissapointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NeonNinja
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 10, 2008 11:43 am PT
Review:  Imagine, if you can, four years ago from today back in 2004 when the original Xbox was still a 
 relevant console. Four years ago to this day Halo 2 had just been released and the fanbase was 
 happy, but it didn't keep the console from being RPG-starved. It was only a few weeks earlier that 
 Peter Molyneux's much hyped and anticipated RPG, Fable was released. It was good fun and it was 
 a note-worthy game, though not for it's overall quality but rather for how it failed in accomplishing 
 anything that was promised by Molyneux. But the game was still fun which was what mattered and 
 it became one of the top RPGs on the Xbox, though that was because there were no RPGs on the Xbox.
 
  
  Fast-forward to the present and Fable II sees a similar release window, weeks before Microsoft's 
 killer shooter, this time Gears of War 2. But Fable II faces a new challenge, not only must it 
 live up to the promises made, but it simply has to be a fantastic RPG on a console now filled with 
 RPGs. The good news is that Fable II amazingly stands above most other RPGs, not just on the Xbox 
 360, but almost every RPG ever created. The reason being is that Fable II breaks away from genre 
 conventions and it follows a different path from most other RPGs, making for one of the most refreshing 
 games ever made.
  
  Before you begin your game you're given a choice of playing as a boy or a girl and from there you 
 begin your quest. The difference between playing as male or female is minimal, but it's great to 
 have the option in a game ultimately about choices. From the opening cutscene until after the finale 
 you will find Fable II's charm undeniable and laugh throughout the experience. The main quest is 
 somber and while it may merit a chuckle here and there, the real king of this game is the sidequests. 
 Many of them will give you choices and how you choose will affect the world and the people around 
 you. As a child you will see the choices in their most basic form, good and evil, but the results 
 even in childhood are hilarious, and this same humor is not only carried over to your adulthood 
 years, it's easily tripled and the choices become slightly more grayish, though you can play as 
 a downright evil character as well. One of the greatest things that can be said about Fable II 
 is that this is the first RPG in recent years that is less like The Lord of the Rings and more 
 along the lines of The Princess Bride. It's a fantastic adventure, but it's still a grand old time!
 
  
  Choices also affect the combat because how you choose to play out each fight is what will make 
 it so much more interesting. You can choose to focus on melee combat, use guns or magic. Of course, 
 the best way to play is with a combination of the three or even of just two. It'll make the encounters 
 that much more interesting when an enemy comes close, you shoot it quickly with your weakest attack, 
 use a spell to slow down time, charge up to your strongest spell and blast the enemies around you 
 and then pull out your pistol and fire at the incoming enemies while those around are shocked in 
 place. Soak up your experience, pull out your sword, knock and enemy down with a flourish and then 
 kill him while he's on the floor. But the joy of it all is that you can choose how to play out 
 the encounters, I actually chose to focus on gunplay and magic over melee combat and it was an 
 absolute blast. Fable II's "one-button combat" works marvelously. Melee is assigned to one button, 
 ranged another and magic to another, but there is depth to the combat, which many may have feared 
 would be shallow.
  
  Of course, Fable II brings in another innovation to the table: your dog. People thought Peter was 
 crazy when he said we'd feel emotional attachment to your pet, but trust me, early on in the game 
 when a bandit leader kicks your dog (which you get to name) , and injures him, well, it won't be 
 easy to resist the urge to kick his ass good and hard. Your dog will help you in combat, down an 
 enemy and he'll be there to deliver the finishing blow to his throat, and when the coast is clear 
 of enemies he'll find you treasures and various items to be dug up from the ground. The emotional 
 attachment you'll feel to your partner is so strong that you will feel lonely in the portions of 
 the game where he isn't allowed to follow you, to help you in any way he can. The great thing is 
 that you can train him as well, whether it's to become more proficient in hunting treasures or 
 in combat or simple tricks that he will do when you make expressions. Your dog is an endearing 
 part of the experience and I can't imagine the game without him.
  
  While playing Fable II you'll be treated to a golden pathway that will guide you to your current 
 objective, and again, it seemed like a horrible idea, but it works marvelously. You don't have 
 to follow the golden pathway, in fact, if you so choose to, you can follow your dog for an hour, 
 pick up treasures and kill random patches of enemies, find a gargoyle here and there and simply 
 enjoy yourself. The pathway isn't there to make the game linear, its simply a guide and it serves 
 more or less the same purpose as BioShock's green arrow, except that it's implemented far better 
 in Fable II. But once you've had your fill of adventuring, follow that pathway and see what kind 
 of adventures await you, whether it's to get revenge for a ghost who was scorned by the woman he 
 loved or to simply go and kill some Balverines (the game's version of werewolves) . Fable II's choices 
 aren't limited to just making a choice at the end of the quest, you can choose how you want to 
 play the game, and wherever you go the choices you make, whether it's done with some peaceful words 
 or a bullet to the skull, are up to you.
  
  Another important thing to not about Fable II is that there is no death penalty. This worked extremely 
 well for BioShock and it works extremely well for Fable II. While many fans of RPGs may scoff at 
 that, you'll only be knocked out, lose some experience and get a scar to show for it. Then you 
 bounce back and keep fighting. Again, it seems like a bad idea, but I much prefer it to dieing 
 and then having to reload and replay entire portions again. Fable II does things right, and it 
 does them right while innovating, and it's hard to ask for much more.
  
  One of the parts of Fable II that does fall flat are the social interactions, though. You pick 
 an expression that you want to use from a wheel and your character does that action, but it ultimately 
 doesn't fit in with the experience. It just doesn't feel natural. However, should become famous 
 enough and manage to woo enough ladies (or men) , you can get married and have a child of course, 
 you can also become a polygamist which is good fun in and of itself. I for one was married to seven 
 different women, three of them were housewives who had angry husbands and sad children to leave 
 behind, another was a gypsy, another a traveler, the sixth was a thug in rags and a sword on her 
 back and the seventh was a prostitute. Fable II doesn't discriminate how you want to play, it let's 
 you do whatever you want and can either start a family (or many) or you can simply get married 
 and make your wives neighbors and watch hilarity ensue from there. Oddly enough, you may feel an 
 attachment to your children though. While the wife is nowhere near as significant as it was made 
 to be, the children will present another form of attachment to the game world. It may not be for 
 everyone, but when you have your little girl running after you screaming "Daddy, daddy, I'm so 
 glad you're back! I missed you." You might just let the kid run around with you around the town 
 and give her a gift or two.
  
  Gold is another interesting option in the game and it will have an effect on who you can marry 
 as well. Of course, you can marry anyone you like, but they won't stay with you if you dump them 
 in a caravan. Your wives expect you to provide for them, so it's a good idea to invest in property. 
 Buy a blacksmith shop, rent out a few houses and every five minutes you spend with the game you'll 
 earn money from either your tenants or your businesses. Heck, I even bought the Temple of Light. 
 You can buy whatever you want because every piece of property is up for grabs; so if you want to 
 own the world of Albion, then by all means, go right ahead. You don't need the money for a family 
 though; it's simply a great way to make money for those weapons that you want to buy or to simply 
 buy up more homes. It's up to you, you don't have to invest if you don't want to, you can just 
 stick to traveling down the paths of Albion and adventuring as you see fit. Pick up a bounty hunting 
 job or an assassination gig whenever you see fit, displace some civilians or just chop some wood, 
 it's all up to you.
  
  One gripe that can be had with the game is the cooperative mode. I avoided it at all costs on my 
 console, but having tried it at a friend's 360 it's safe to say that coop is Fable II's grandest 
 failure. You won't be able to carry your character into your friend's game world, so already it 
 messes up the experience, you can't change the outcome of his world, which again, dampens the experience. 
 The only benefit you get is that you get to keep the experience and gold you earn, which is hardly 
 a benefit at all. But add in a horrendous camera and all I can say is this, avoid Fable II's coop, 
 this is a game that is meant to be played alone, and a game that could have received some extra 
 polish had Lionhead not chosen to put so much time and effort into coop. It was a grand idea and 
 they deserve recognition for trying it, but perhaps we'll see it fully realized in Fable III. For 
 now, it isn't worth logging online with Fable II, and while it doesn't dampen the game's overall 
 greatness, it's simply a shame that it doesn't work.
  
  Throughout the game you'll find yourself in love with Fable II's graphics. Though on a technical 
 level they could never come close to Gears of War, they shine on an artistic level. The world of 
 Albion is gorgeous, whether it's talking Demon Doors on a mountainside, a forest in the night with 
 the howls of Balverines, an island where pirates once lived or a marsh filled with the undead, 
 Fable II will please the eyes.
  
  The sound in the game is well done as well, the music sounds magical, which is befitting a game 
 in a fairytale world, and the enemies sound viscous. The gargoyles are little punks and the Demon 
 Doors sound like scholars (except for one) . The unique characters in the game are all acted well 
 throughout the experience, though the random NPC characters more often than not sound alike, but 
 it's OK considering how many actual characters there are. The game is aware of this as well, and 
 those paying close attention will see that the game often makes fun of itself for little things 
 like that. The weapons and magic also sound as they should. Gunshots are loud and melee strikes 
 are brutal, so again, the game delivers.
  
  Fable II is a one of a kind experience, sequels made this well, that improve so much upon the original 
 are a rarity. After playing Molyneux's magnum opus it'll be hard to go back to the original Fable, 
 if not impossible. Fable II renders the original obsolete. It's filled to the brim with fascinating 
 characters, exciting quests and the most original ideas for an RPG possibly ever. The game is sharp, 
 witty and wonderful, and is an adventure well worth embarking upon simply because Fable II might 
 just be the single most compelling game made in the past decade, if not ever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: strutty526
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 10, 2008 11:19 am PT
Review:  I am not usually into games like this but something drew me to Fable 2. I dont know what it was, 
 perhaps the media hype really works. I had bought Oblivion but got bored very quickly. Yes it was 
 very clever and vast but to me the vastness was its main let down. I was left thinking "What the 
 hell I am bothering for?"
  
  Its nice looking game but with a fundamental flaw that for me ruined the experience.
  
  The 
 problem was it was way way too easy and there for seems very short for a game of this size. There 
 was no option to change the difficulty and I knew nothing would be a challenge.
  
  All in all it looks great, voice acting is very good with some well known names (Zoe Wanamaker 
 is a main character) although some of the conversations and cut scenes started to bre me so I skipped 
 a lot towards the end.
  
  I would recommend for novice to casual gamers. Hardcore gamers may find this a welcome break from 
 the likes of GOW 2 mayhem! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: edubuccaneer
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 10, 2008 9:20 am PT
Review:  After years in production, Peter Molyneux's piece, Fable II, is finally upon us on the Xbox 360. 
 Following a similar mold from its 2004 predecessor, Fable II introduces new features and improves 
 upon what the former game built, but in the end, it feels overly artificial and irrelevant.
  
  Five hundred years after the events of Fable, Albion - the fantasy world that both games take 
 place - has gone through radical changes. These resulted from the dissolution of the Heroes' Guild, 
 after the Heroes became increasingly self important and less worried about the well being of the 
 world. The world now has forgotten about the heroic exploits from the past, concentrating on evolving 
 without the dependence of powerful beings. Fable II opens up its story showing two sibling street 
 urchins living in the town of Bowerstone, and the quest for one of them to re-instate the importance 
 of heroes and most importantly, of course, saving the world from a maniacal entity bent on reshaping 
 it to fit its needs.
  
  Fable II is totted to be a game of choices, and these are presented as soon as the start button 
 is pressed in the title screen, with the choice of playing a girl or a boy. Regardless of the gender 
 of the main character, they will always end up having an older sister, who basically acts as a 
 tutorial into the moral choice system embedded into the game. Early on, as a kid living in the 
 streets, the main nameless character, referred to only as Little Sparrow, comes across situations 
 that have heavy consequences in Bowerstone's future, in the form of simple quests. For instance, 
 one of these missions will be given by a warehouse owner who wants the hero to clear out his shop 
 of beetles. Upon entering, another proposition is made, to destroy the merchant's supply, thus 
 helping the local muscle mob. Depending on the choice made, evil or good points will be attributed 
 to the hero fresh out of diapers. Depending on this overall behaviour in the starting phase, the 
 town can turn into a profitable and luxurious location to visit, or a wore infested red-light hell 
 hole in the coming years. 
  
  As the main character grows up, more decisions come into place, working as a balancing act as to 
 whether he or she will be a kind spirited person or an evil soul. The problem lies in how artificial 
 these decisions feel, and how the many towns' populations can be manipulated to either love or 
 hate as many times as wished. An angelic hero can quickly become satanic by raising the rent on 
 owned real state and killing innocents, while an evil character will donate to church and gift 
 townspeople in order to gain their trust and revert their cause. This mechanic waters down all 
 the significance the choices made after starting the game, even to the point of offering a gender 
 change potion, reverting even the simplest decision's significance. Not that choosing a gender 
 will make much of a difference other than visually. Like in the first Fable, the main character 
 can get married, but this time, also have kids. The decision to get married comes as easily as 
 the change of people's opinion mentioned above. Become more and more heroic, use expensive clothes, 
 and quickly enough, most of the villagers found will be in love, regardless of the main character's 
 gender. While being a modern and applause-worthy notion without any sexual discrimination, it also 
 adds to the already mentioned watered down consequences of decisions. Add to this formula the fact 
 that sexual relations using or avoiding protection is skimmed to a chance of contracting transmitted 
 diseases if non marital or an instant child for unprotected intercourse while married. Kids come 
 into play rather quickly after marriage, and a family becomes yet another stop in between quests, 
 where they can be turned to like or hate with a simple jump into bed, flowers and a toy. Failure 
 to maintain a happy household can result in a divorce, or even spouse suicide, losing both the 
 partner and kids to social services.
  
  Combat in Fable II also helps in maintaining this shallow artificial feeling, dependant only on 
 the face buttons of the Xbox 360 game pad. X acts as the melee button, while Y controls ranged 
 attacks from guns and crossbows and B is for magic, each with their own skill tree for skill point 
 allocation.. In the beginning, as attributes aren't really evolved, fights can be described as 
 button mashing contests, since basic actions like defend, parrying and dodging only come in later 
 strength skill tree levels. As enemies get defeated, experience point orbs in four separate colors 
 can be collected and used into the tree main development trees - yellow for Skill, blue for Strength, 
 red for Will and green for general use. Will acts as another word for magic attacks, which revolve 
 around archetypes, like the fireball Inferno attack and Raise Dead, which, if not obvious, calls 
 for the dead souls of enemies to fight side by side with the hero - with each class having five 
 upgrade slots. Skill mainly revolves around ranged attack improvement, with some melee influence. 
 Strength focuses on health point value, stamina and armor improvement. As more skills are presented, 
 combat can become more challenging, but it doesn't escape the tiring mold of random encounters 
 that are summed up into the same developed strategy that will quickly be discovered within the 
 first few bouts with bandits. Add to the list the fact that most magic types aren't very useful, 
 with very few combat worthy of the valuable experience points orbs. 
  
  Enemy types aren't very varied either, which doesn't help in the feeling of repetition. Normal 
 humans can come in the shape of roadside bandits or soldiers, while monsters can be Hobbes, a sort 
 of gnome and goblin mix, trolls, huge tree-like beings, banshees, who act like mini bosses and 
 hollow men, reanimated corpses who fight exactly like reanimated corpses, slowly and weakly. The 
 overall combat challenge lies in enemy numbers that can easily crowd around the hero and chip away 
 health points into their demise. Or not. Maybe demise isn't the correct word to be used to describe 
 death in Fable II. Instead of biting the dust and grabbing lilies, the main hero loses experience 
 points that were not picked up and gain scars every time they are knocked out, coming back into 
 the fight a few moments after comically lumping onto the ground. These scars do a bit to effect 
 the hero's visuals and attractiveness, but nothing a few pieces of expensive clothing can't fix. 
 In the end, the artificial feeling found throughout the game is mostly based on the fact that death 
 doesn't matter much, so far as to not even make much of a difference, throwing the challenge out 
 the window.
  
  Perhaps the most noteworthy adding to Fable II is the hero's dog. Introduced in the first few minutes 
 of the game, the dog acts a lot like the animal avatar in Molyneux god simulation game Black & 
 White. Depending on which side of the karma wheel the hero rests, so does the dog. A good mutt 
 is petted and loved by townsfolk, while the opposite is yet another means of executing evil deeds, 
 in the most varied of ways. The hero's four legged friend also plays a small part in combat, attacking 
 knocked down enemies in a finishing move. However, the most important function of the dog, by far, 
 is for the discovery of buried treasure. As an upgradeable skill, along with combat, the dog's 
 ability to sniff out treasures is one of the main additions that sets Fable II apart from its predecessor, 
 in which the hero was a lone acting influence in the world. Not only is it influential to keep 
 your dog happy and healthy, it is also important to teach him new tricks in the form of books that 
 can be bought, won or found. These tricks act as a companion to the host of expressions the hero 
 can use to impress, entertain, scare, seduce or hurt the people of Albion with. As an example, 
 as the hero launches powerful flatulence, the dog hides his nose with his paws. Also to be noted 
 is the fact that expressions depend on a time based meter, and if missed, can have opposite effects 
 that those intended. These expressions also effect the tip toe scale of the love and hate relationship 
 between the main hero and the world's population.
  
  The "map system" incorporated in Fable II keeps track of how many collectibles are found, as well 
 as real state owned and personality shifts. Sadly, there is a reason to keep the words in quotes, 
 since this feature ignores the basic function of maps - showing locations and helping out. Finding 
 stores in towns and special locations is needlessly overcomplicated, and frustrating due to this. 
 The only clue to help locate objectives is a glowing trail that points a particular path to be 
 followed, and even this feature is a bit half baked, since sometimes the trail insists in changing 
 its mind mid way, or simply not appearing at all, at crucial times. This feature can be tweaked 
 in the options in order to feature a stronger or lighter appearance, or make it inactive all together. 
 
  
  It helps that Fable II's colorful visuals look a lot like the original's, and is also one of its 
 drawbacks. Environments feel mostly well textured, but also present a lot of square edges thanks 
 to low polygon use. The fact that slowdown and pop in occur often, along with visual glitches like 
 floating characters and crazy physics don't help shake the feeling that perhaps Fable II would 
 have benefited from more time in the oven. Characters look simple, and are too often repeated in 
 the same screens, which happen ever more normally with enemy creatures. Visual defects aside, the 
 impressive side of Fable II's looks is the lighting. Watching the sun set really makes one wonder 
 why this attention was not shared with the rest of the visual presentation. Environments also hardly 
 ever vary from the lush forest, dirty port or scary swamp postcards. The variety of costumes to 
 wear and weapons to 
  wield is also disappointing - depending on which side of the personality meter the main character 
 will lie, there won't be much of a choice regarding clothing. There is however the possibility 
 of mixing pieces of sets and gender specific clothes, with the choice of turning the hero into 
 a cross dresser-like character. The clothing is strongly influenced my 19th century French and 
 English culture, and many of the upper class non playable characters look ripped straight out of 
 a Marie Antoniette novel. The options for character customization are similar to the original game's, 
 with different hair styles, tattoos, and the already mentioned clothing and weaponry. Food choices 
 also affect how the hero looks, with a chubby belly line waiting for cheese loving do gooders to 
 obtain. 
  
  The musical score is very well composed - strongly based on fantasy films, especially on Danny 
 Elfman's pieces for movies like Harry Potter, Fable II's music is enjoyable. Although sharing a 
 lot of the score with the previous game, it does its job well providing the setting. The voice 
 work is also worthy of mention, with many lines of distinct dialogue and humor, in the tongue and 
 cheek humor typical of British comedy. The humor in Fable II is one of its high marks, providing 
 a mix of mature content and toilet jokes that makes the Mature rating received well understood.
 
  
  Variety can be seen as a lacking feature in Fable II. Quests outside the main storyline are few 
 and far between, and hardly take long to complete. The main story isn't very extensive either, 
 taking a few days of not so dedicated playing to complete. There are a few collectibles to be found 
 in the form of fifty silver keys, used to open special treasure chests, and fifty gargoyles that 
 can be destroyed in order to gain access to special items. The demon doors from Fable make a return, 
 with new tastes and requirements in order to let passage. The gargoyles are the main highlight 
 of the post storyline re-playability of Fable II - not only are they hard to find, but are also 
 part of the comedic value, since they audibly curse and make fun of the hero as they get close, 
 helping as a cue to keep keen eyes open.
  
  All in all, Fable II is a mildly enjoyable fantasy game, that unfortunately ends up feeling incredibly 
 artificial. The promises of it having consequences for decisions made are but that, promises, with 
 very few cases of staying repercussions, few and far between. It ends up being a game that has 
 the potential lying just finger lengths away from grasp, but ultimately falling flat on its nose. 
 There are very few reasons to keep coming back for more after the story is over, other than the 
 great comedic writing and achievement hunting - for those interested. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: frogcrazyant1
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 9, 2008 7:37 pm PT
Review:  This Game makes you want to be Good and Bad at the same time. What will happen if i Disobey? What 
 Will happen if i Save this Man? All of this questions pop in your head when you have to make a 
 decision, and thats what Fable is all about. Pure or Impure. Good and Evil. And you can choose. 
 When you first play the game, it can be overwhelming all the options you get to do and the side 
 missions and the jobs and the expressions and the weapons and armor, which isn't bad, but still 
 overwhelming. The game though is fun and this is why.
  
  Storyline-
  You are a child at the beginning, like the first one, and you get a wish of what you want to do. 
 Then you wish to live in a castle but the wish goes horribly wrong and you want revenge on someone. 
 The whole main Quest is to get revenge with other people to beat the evil King. This can actually 
 get boring at times, because all you do pretty much at the beginning is kill countless bandits 
 and fight their leader and do stuff to get renown to do something bigger, and the cycle continues. 
 But then, more and more surprising jaw dropping events happen (all up to you) and the whole story 
 can change and it gets more exciting. This time around you can now get guns, which makes the fights 
 more fun in my opinion. The weapons, the guns and the magic are all my favorite parts of the game. 
 Buying and Selling the strongest weapon to get a new cooler weapon is fun to keep getting until 
 you have the best of the best. The side missions are a little silly, but fun to have and useful 
 if you need renown or gold for potions or weapons. The detail and clothes your guys wear is up 
 to you, and thats fun to toy around with him and make him look plain stupid, cool, or just evil. 
 The storyline is great, and always gives you some questions to think about while you play.
  The Co-Op drop in and drop out isn't very delicious as i thought it would be. The second player 
 only has 4 or 6 choices of who they want to be ( and all of them have lazy eyes???? ) and they 
 just look stupid and you cant change their weapons or guns or upgrade you weapon and you cant dig 
 or open doors of ask people stuff, your just the henchman and the second guy gets pretty much left 
 out, and its hard to be good as the second guy when you only being allowed 5 or 10 XP from your 
 friends and your kills, but its still nice to have a second guy to play if your alone with someone. 
 Duh this is a RPG and isn't a party game. Now, the most important part haha. The dog. The dog you 
 have changes colors when your good or bad. good-gold bad-black. and if your neutral it will be 
 black. The dog is pretty much you, and helps you in battle and helps you find treasure and paths 
 and is your bestfriend. You can either be good or bad to it, but there are alot of choices in this 
 game that results to your future ending.
  
  Achievements-
  There isnt much anything other than this and the storyline so lets just go right to achievements. 
 This game if you complete to storyline will give you a fair amount of points, around 400-500 from 
 just the game itself. But its practically impossible to not get other achievements from doing something 
 like kicking a chicken or shooting a rabbit or just digging something up with a shovel. There are 
 alot of 5 point achievements that can be earned very easily when you read what to do. The only 
 thing i was Disappointed about is that you could literally get like 1000 points from just watching 
 another Xbox Live person do something, and you get the achievement too. Oh and something i forgot 
 about in the storyline, the job side missions are pretty weak. All they are are hitting a green 
 sliding bar above your head while you watch it go around until you hit and then you watch your 
 guy make a knife or cut wood, not very exciting huh?
  
  But, through everything, I think there is more good than bad and this game, and if you are a hardcore 
 gamer or just a RPG fan, this is a good game to pick up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: djwglpuppy
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 9, 2008 3:19 pm PT
Review:  I finally beat Fable2 today... and unfortunately due to gameplay limitations and redundancy... 
 I don; t think I am going to make a return trip to Albion.
  
  The Good:
    Neat immersive world
    Interesting (sometimes) quests
    Dog Companion is pretty immersive
 
  
  The Bad:
    Severe Framerate drops
    Money gets kinda pointless... after you own a few properties, money starts flowing in
    Lack 
 of Items to customize character with (especially clothing)
    Lack of Furniture choices
    No Global Property Management
    Maps are quite pointless and hard to read
    Quests start 
 becoming incdredible redundant
    Completely unattached to storyline
    Your character will eventually get all attributes maximized (I had a couple million extra expereince 
 points by end of me playing) so there really is no "individual character
    If you eat practically any food, you get fat... and there is no real way of working off the weight. 
 So don; t eat ANY food, if you want to stay thin
    Marriage management is practically nonexistent (especially if you make yourself loveable and 
 get enough renown)
    Book copy is really boring and uninspired
    Loads times are ridiculous and tedious at times
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: saladdodger163
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 9, 2008 2:15 pm PT
Review:  pros: a awsome map 10 times bigger than fable 1s, combat is much improved, awsome choices, everything 
 has a consequence, you can have kids, good story, lots of replay value, did i mention its awsome
 
  cons: very short, maybe a little too good (just kidding)
  
  well what can i say this is perfect the stories pretty good the choice and consequence system is 
 just amazing its so realistic 10 times bettter than oblivion if you can find it get the collectors 
 edition it has a halo energey sword and spartan suit anyway in the begining some guy named lucien 
 kills your sister and atempts to kill you so you wanna kill him oh yeah of course you save the 
 world along the way the character interaction is much better than the first it had me hooked the 
 whole way for 5 times when i got home at the end of the day this is all i want to do just pick 
 it up
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Enigma_Ltd
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 9, 2008 12:42 pm PT
Review:  At once, Fable II is an incredible achievement and a serious letdown. This is not to say, however, 
 that the game falls flat on its face. Quite the contrary, it manages to provide a deep, satisfying 
 experience with a staggering number of interactions. Where the game falls short is in, as in its 
 predecessor, the developer's over-ambitious promises.
  
  To begin, Fable II's story is surprisingly weak. Only an hour or two into it, and the experience 
 loses its magical sheen. This alone, however, is not nearly enough to sink the game.
  
  Everyone is familiar with peter Molyneux's over ambitious promises for the first Fable, about planting 
 an acorn and such. Good ol' Peter didn't dress up Fable II in quite the same way, thank god, but 
 there is one feature in particular that seems particularly under-delivered. I would be referring 
 to the co-op game. When the developers first announced this, they made it out to be an incredibly 
 fun experience in which you and a buddy can completely screw up each others game worlds. While 
 this is true, it is not exactly whole truth. While you can indeed, enter your friend's world, you 
 do so in the form of a "henchman," having the stats of your character, but not really being your 
 character. Co-op loses much of its appeal for this reason, as you don't feel like your playing 
 your character at all. Add this to the camera issues of co-operative play, and you get one fabled 
 mess.
  
  Luckily, those are the only primary issues with the game. The quests have been given much more 
 diversity than the first game, making them genuinely fun, and your player can grow and develop 
 in more ways than imaginable. You can become a real estate kingpin, earn gold as a blacksmith, 
 rent out housing, buy out the merchants, get some nookie, and even say goodbye to bachelorhood.
 
  
  Finally, the graphical quality. Many gamers nowadays claim that they don't care at all about graphics, 
 that it's all about the gameplay. This is a very valid point to make, but I'm a shallow sucker, 
 and I like my games looking good. This Fable II does well. Any texture pop is few and far between, 
 and the game runs at a solid frame rate with no hiccups. Even better than the technically proficient 
 graphics, though, is the characteristic art style. NPC's and even your character, are beautiful 
 caricatures that make the world into a fun place to hang out in. It's hard to describe, so you 
 should really check out some screenshots to see what I mean.
  
  The only undiscussed quality of the game, at this point, is the humor. Fable II's creators know 
 what they're doing, for some reason, and the witty, sarcastic dialog pokes fun at society while 
 still making you laugh. I would suggest to people playing it that they read the item descriptions. 
 You will find more mirth in these alone than in any real world comedic act.
  
  Overall, despite the weak plot and multiplayer, Fable II provides a vast experience full of laughs 
 and fun. A beautiful looking game, it not only gives people freedom, but reacts to their every 
 decision. I would highly recommend this game to anyone. Period. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BorisSoad
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 9, 2008 12:20 pm PT
Review:  Wow. I've waited ages for this. When I held the cover in my hands, man... I seldom are so happy 
 as then. 
  
  The atmosphere is so fantastic. Really, everything the bald guy said has come true. The open-but 
 not really that open-world was everything I expected. There still are paths, and you can't leave 
 them at all times. But what the heck, the game still gives you the feeling you are travelling through 
 an open world. 
  
  The story-line is engaging and awesome. It really is a fable as your parents used to tell you before 
 you went to bed. Well, maybe a bit more cruel. This is the epic-campaing you want to play. 
  
  The fighting is fun. You can switch between your gun, magic or your more melee weapons. This 
 all works well and very quick. You can hit someone with your sword, roll backwards, shoot and quickly 
 summon some undead to aid you in battle. It is all very dynamic. Leveling works with experience 
 you can get from fallen enemies. 
  
  Then morality. Moral plays a huge role in this game. Simply said; you can choose between good or 
 evil. But the game sometimes makes you make very hard decisions. Things like: resurrect thousand 
 innocent people or save your family. Man, how are you supposed to choose between that sort of things? 
 I chose for my family, with a bit of regret in my heart for all those who now will never see daylight 
 again. I actually felt sorry for all those virtual people who now would never see their virtual 
 families anymore. 
  
  Money is also important in the game. This means: you can buy everything. Yes, everything. Every 
 house or shop is for sale. Even the castle becomes available at the end. And who doens't wants 
 to live like a king? You can get money by stealing (evil) or working (good) . Working means doing 
 jobs like being a blacksmith or hunt down criminals. The handworker's jobs are minigames which 
 are really engaging and fun. The other jobs are fighting jobs. 
  
  There aren't many things I didn't like about the game. The fact that it hasn 't got a good minimap 
 is probably one of them. Also is navigating very hard. Exploring new areas is hard, because I never 
 knew where to find them. And checking your map is impossible. Well, I think that was the only part 
 I didn't like. I can imagine that after you finish every sidequest your done with the game. But 
 that isn't my style of gaming. I like to finish a game proper, so I won't stop playing untill I 
 have that castle. And then? Then I'll restart the game with a really evil character. 
  
  The game is really fantastic. Although the menu and map sometimes will give you problems. But, 
 what the heck, that are really small things which don't threaten the quality of the game. Everything 
 the bald guy said has come true. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bmsaareagles
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 9, 2008 10:48 am PT
Review:  In Fable ll you start out as a child trying to do deeds around town for gold coins. This sounds 
 similar to the first one, but it is totally different. I dont want to spoil the story so thats 
 about all I can tell you about the child hood years. Once you are an adult, the world of Fable 
 ll comes alive. You are sent out into an amazingly beautifull world filled with quests, treasures, 
 secrets, and mutch more. Once again I dont want to spoil anything about the story, but I can tell 
 you that its a great story that is one of the best I have seen in a game. Lets get into gameplay. 
 The Fable ll combat systems is a basic three button system. X controls your mele, Y controls your 
 guns, and B controls your magic. The combat works well and may seem simple but can be realy fun 
 and mixed into different combos and fighting styles. Next we will get into quests. There are tons 
 of quests in this game that are both main story line and side quests. None of the quests seem alike 
 and they all give you some new fun things to do and experiance. The quests are fun and great, but 
 the real fun for me was the free play. This is like 3D sims when you are not doing quests. You 
 can go shopping in tons of different stores, you can get jobs and work for money, you can have 
 a family and children that you have to take care of. You can buy businesses or rent out homes, 
 as well as own homes for yourself. You can interact with the villagers in many different way. You 
 can dance around with them all and have a great party, or you can be mean and scare them all away. 
 You can do anything from getting drunk with them to sleeping with them. There are no limitations 
 in this game and it seems like even when you beat the game that there is still tons more to do. 
 Now to get to the best part of the game in my opinion, the dog. This is the best use of a dog ever 
 in any video game ever made. Its not just some things running beside you, its your friend. You 
 find yourself having a great bond between you and your dog. You can name your dog and buy him different 
 collars to make him fully your best friend. He runs around with you wherever you go finding treasures 
 and dig spots as well as secrets and enemys. You can also interact with your dog to make him do 
 tricks as well as give you a kiss and stuff like that. Overall this is an amazing game. Everything 
 about it is great from the story, to the gameplay, to the free play aspects of the game. This is 
 a must buy for all gamers especially if you liked the first one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: steviedambo
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 9, 2008 6:09 am PT
Review:  Like many others I was eagerly anticipating Fable II, after thoroughly enjoying the original a 
 few years ago. 
  
  When I first started playing I was blown away. Lovely graphics, great art style, fun, immersive 
 with a seemingly endless number of things to do. As time went on though and I completed numerous 
 side quests and ploughed through the main quest storyline I couldn't help but feel a slight sense 
 of disappointment creeping in as the game didn't really offer up anything new as the story progressed. 
 As fun as it was and still is, I'd killed hundreds of hobbes, assassinated seemingly innocent people 
 for the society, donated at the temple of light, etc, etc all the while (accidentally) becoming 
 a truly evil being! (oops!)
  
  The main quest storyline isn't anything new, but it is fun and filled with some interesting and 
 often very funny characters. Unfortunately It seems to be completable in around 10-12hrs which 
 is rather short for a game of this ilk....
  
  I suppose what I'm trying to say is, if you liked Fable you'll enjoy its sequel, just like me. 
 If however, you were expecting a ground-breaking experience you will be disappointed. It is good 
 fun - what a game should be! But there is nothing that really marks it out as anything other than 
 Fable with a bit of a graphical overhaul and some (small) additions. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gawney
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 9, 2008 5:20 am PT
Review:  After all the hype and all the suspence you would think that Lionhead wuold have gone over it with 
 a fine tooth comb but it shows sign of the game bieng rushed to get it out on time.
  
  For instance, I have had one glitch many many times. The stuck in the ground shaking glitch, nearly 
 everytime i kill something next to a raised area it gets stuck inside the hill and shakes! The 
 only way i've seen it stopped it when you shoot it a load with you ranged weapon to dislodge it!
 
  
  But still that's not exactly a HUGE problem is it? It's quite funny watching a bandit shake like 
 he's trying to dance while half buried.
  
  This game is one of the best out this year if not the best this year i wouldn't be suprised if 
 i saw this game winning gae of the year award.
  
  The thing that i think they should improve is the story line. It's way to short and doesn't exactly 
 match up with fable 1 which is quite a shame after i played number one constantly when i bought 
 it for the computer about a year ago and found it one of the best games out for the time i bought 
 it and i still think it's a fantastic game.
  
  All in all this has to be one of the best games i've played for the 360 wait i mean for all consoles, 
 shame for all those PS3 players because they only have little big planet and Metal Gear Solid 4, 
 wich is from what i heard has wierd cow things.
  
  Anyway back on topic, i think that anyone who is a avid gamer should buy this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Boondocks123
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 8, 2008 7:48 pm PT
Review:  With the combination of GUN, Nintendogs, oblivion, and KOTOR 2 with 200x graphics, forms a pretty 
 f ing sick game. You can choose your path as good or evil, pub games like keystone and spinner 
 box, improved spell development, Guns like pistols and rifles, Xbox live with friends, the ability 
 to buy and rent houses, baby making, wives, prostitutes, and of course my favorite feature of the 
 whole game..... THE DOG... he is your only real companion and you can teach him tricks, and if 
 you knock someone over he will kill them... hes like a blood hound... and he can find you treasure 
 and can also find you places to dig up treasure. . If your are looking for an action/rpg to play 
 with another person with all these awesome features you need to buy this game. I highly reccomond 
 it to anyone new or old Xbox users 
::::::

::::::
UserName: andre800
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 8, 2008 5:30 pm PT
Review:  Fable 2 owns. It really fun and pretty easy. If u dont got it u should buy it because it really 
 fun and u can play with a friend and trade online but first to trade u would have to go to options 
 gam and there something like orbs it says friends only change it to every one. After that u will 
 see orbs in some place thoses are people LT them to lock on and a to interact u can trade. view 
 stats, and view gamer card and u can also talk to them. I beat Fable 2 in 3 days. I make videos 
 but with webcam it not that really good qualit. i havn't made a fable 2 one yet but i am with my 
 friend u can message me on xboxlive my gmertag is andre800 text me if u want to play with me. Wel 
 i can help u get alot of acheivements i got aabout 605 or mor gmerpoints in fable im going to get 
 more. U dont have to read on now im spaming so i can post this thing il talk about random stuff 
 and il tell how u can get dive 500 feet or more k u have to do the tresure island of doom quest 
 then follow the yellow line then u go in a cave keep on going theres a cliff dive it u get the 
 achievement 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thecrazystud
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 8, 2008 10:10 am PT
Review:  I loved the first FABLE, who didn't? This wasn't a advancement at all. This was the biggest let 
 down this year. I went through and played on the good side and I hear the Evil is better but I 
 have moral conflicts about that. I couldn't find a store to buy upgrades for weapons. I have so 
 much money I could but Castle Fairfax 100 times. But this was missing the bang. The story started 
 off great then plumits a hour into the game. The chest in the guild that you have to open by visiting 
 their site wasn't ready, very discouraging. The foundation was great but they didn't spice it up 
 with anything, what a let down. Co-op is something that I didn't try because I like to hog everything 
 to myself. Keep the few secrets I find to myself to give me the edge on them. A couple of boo boo's 
 in the game but it's so big that there was bound to be a few. I wanted more out of the game that 
 I had been waiting to play since the end of the first one. Maybe my expectations were to high? 
 Maybe Lionhead wanted to move on to their next project? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: biggamefreak
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 8, 2008 8:06 am PT
Review:  Fable II is very great it is fun and amusing it may have a short story but it will addict you and 
 will want to keep playing it tha great gameplay of the game amuses you it story is good but it 
 could have had a better ending but the huge array of things and choices in the game are one of 
 the few things that make it very amusing and a huge world that you will want to explore from top 
 to bottom you will want to see every nook and crany and everything that game has to offer really 
 the game is great i suggest that you all buy it and dont waste the chance to play it you will always 
 want to play more and it has a gameplay that can keep you playing the game for more than fifty 
 hours and how you can marry and change clothes and work and buy and sell the game feels like another 
 life for you really you must not miss this game ever 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Th3Preacher
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 8, 2008 7:13 am PT
Review:  alright, to start off, i loved Fable 2. i didnt see its flaws at first, because i was so hyped 
 up when i first got it, but now i have been noticing things. in fable 2, like its previous game, 
 you start out as a child, and grow up. the Co-op was great, but it was littered with so many bugs, 
 it made my head spin. the storyline was great, but it was too short, and there was no ending boss 
 fight, it just take you one gunshot to beat the fianl act. thats what got me the most, the original 
 fable's storyline was absolutely epic! and it had a score of unique legendary weapons that were 
 just plain fun to use. in fable 2, it wasnt even clear at first if the game even had ay legendary 
 weapons. i know it may sound like i ahted the game, but quite the contrary, i loved it. another 
 good part about fable 2, is the addition of having children, which reall just had me laughing my 
 ass off. the graphics are positively amazing, and the new environments are a refreashing change 
 of pace that i really enjoyed. there could have been more quests to do, because pretty much shortly 
 afetr you beat the game, you got nothing to do but just walk around and kill things and get items 
 for another character you want to make. for people just who just got it, i advise you start out 
 with an evil chracter, to have the most fun, and there isnt anything funnier than a little girl 
 quaking in fear of your terrifying image. all in all, i think fable deserves a 9.0. it's storyline 
 was too short and a boring ending, and Co-op is buggier than a swamp. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OwenGAME
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 8, 2008 2:41 am PT
Review:  I bought this along with fallout 3 so I had to choose which one to play first. Fallout 3 won but 
 a few days of Radroaches and Super mutants, I decided to have a go at Fable.
  
  And I'm glad I bought it, there's hell of al lot of stuff to do in Albion, from hunting down bandits 
 to getting married and impaling them in the Temple of Shadows!
  
  The game starts in Bowerstone old town as you and your sister Rose do jobs to earn themselves 5 
 gold coins to buy a music box which plays a big role in the game, but I won't spoil the story for 
 people still playing through the short, but excellent main quest. 
  
  That's really the only cons I can find in this brilliant game, that it's way too short and allot 
 like the first game, but it's just so damn fun that it doesn't really matter. Oh and that the final 
 boss was a joke.
  
  And I can't write this review without mentioning the dog, it finds treasure and dig spots for you, 
 and it's great to have a companion throughout the game which makes a certain decision at the end 
 of the game hard to make.
  
  I hope this game is at least a contender for GOTY, if it was longer it would probably win IMO, 
 but it's still an excellent game that every RPG fan should play.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: captainfez3
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 7, 2008 8:22 pm PT
Review:  Fable 2 is a game that your going to play several times, it's just that good. For those that never 
 played the original, Fable 2 is a fantasy/role-playing game set in the world of Albion. Albion 
 has been greatly expanded from the original game, and with the Xbox 360's power and the game's 
 great art direction, it looks even more amazing than before. Because of the new size of the game, 
 you'll find you spend a lot of time exploring for collectibles and just enjoying the world the 
 game developers created. So here's the skinny on all the good, and a little bit of bad.
  
  The best thing about this sequel is undoubtably combat. Fable 2 features a combat system that makes 
 the combat in the original seem very clunky. Now you can transition from different styles more 
 easily and it feels really fluid, even if each aspect is controlled by one button. Also, the experience 
 multiplier has been revamped. Originally, getting hit would eliminate the multiplier, now it is 
 cummulitive and effects the entire pool of experience you absorb.
  
  Outside of combat, the relationship/marriage aspect of the game has been beefed up. You can now 
 have children with your wife/husband, and you can pick any home you want for your family. If you 
 can buy it, they can live in it. Family is a feature that adds a lot of attachement to the game 
 and really elevates the story.
  
  There are a lot of other great improvements, but I think what really stands out in this game is 
 the Fable team's passion to deliver a game that is above and beyond any previous standards ever 
 set. To me, this game delivers in spades...
  
  ... but, there is still a few things that could be improved. To me, co-op seems to be missing out 
 on a lot of things that could put this over and beyond great, it just feels like something the 
 team rushed to get for release. Don't get me wrong, it's awesome to play with my friends in Fable 
 2, but using a henchmen and screen sharing put this one strike shy of out. Magic didn't feel right 
 in this game either. You don't have a mana bar in Fable 2, but rather charge the spells. This balances 
 the game out very well, but in the end, I felt that all the spells were too similar. The charge 
 system that makes this system work, steals the "magic" from using magic. I have other minor complaints, 
 but in a game this size and fun, you can't expect everything.
  
  No, I didn't forget the dog. In Fable 2, you revieve a dog that hunts down treasure and finds dig 
 spots for you throughout your adventure. You can train him and teach him tricks and he changes 
 according to your alignment. This all sounds good on paper, but I never felt as attached to my 
 dog as I thought I would. He's awesome to have around, but "training" your dog really boils down 
 "upgrading", and that always felt weird. I didn't really feel like he was personalized, which is 
 a very strong selling point in this game. Not to sound cold, but I could take or leave the dog.
 
  
  I know I write a lot, but I'd just like to close with this- Fable 2 is an AMAZING game. You owe 
 it to yourself to buy it and play it, because it will keep you coming back for years to come as 
 you wait for the next Fable game. Peter Molyneux and his team did an amazing job with this game 
 and they deserve serious accolades. The next step for the future of this game series is depth, 
 because no matter how you do, you will beat the main quest within 20-30 hours. In reality, you 
 could suspend the main quest indefinintely, but the game's story is also very awesome, and I think 
 you'll be as anxious as I was to see how things work out. Anyway, hope you enjoy the game! :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: acknowledge101
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 7, 2008 6:57 pm PT
Review:  Molyneux should be commended for every time he's able to keep his mouth shut. This time he did 
 well enough, but there are still some things here that are bothersome.
  
  The first Fable was a quality action/rpg with some open-ended elements and having played Morrowind, 
 a more complicated but far more fulfilling open-ended RPG, it was a letdown. Still fun, but a letdown 
 nonetheless. 
  
  Enter Fable II and an expansion on that open-endedness and you've got a bigger and better RPG. 
 Fable II is basically what 1 promised. It still has its share of terrible problems though, even 
 if they don't ultimately ruin the experience, but make you wonder why you'd throw away $60 for 
 this.
  
  As everyone is saying, the main quest is terrible. So short you'll wonder why this game took so 
 long to make. So cliche, you'll wonder if Molyneux forgot about the story and just focused on everything 
 else. Likely, yes, he did.
  
  But what is everything else? You can take jobs, such as smithing, woodcutting, and bartending. 
 These consist of rhythm action button pressing. You get multipliers which give you more money and 
 when you get a certain amount of money, you get a promotion. You can go straight through these 
 in a sitting if you want, but it can get incredibly repetitive and frustrating, so you probably 
 won't want to. This is the best way to get money to begin with if you're "pure" (which I was) .
 
  
  If you're not good, you can do practically anything you want, but there will be repercussions. 
 So think before you slaughter an entire town (or just don't save) .
  
  My suggestion for starting out would be to get enough money to buy a house or two and rent them 
 out. You collect rent from these properties everyday within the game and you will even collect 
 it while the console is turned off. Don't have enough money for something? Turn off the console 
 and go do something else for a couple hours then come back. This is quite an interesting mechanic, 
 because it makes you want to stop playing at times, but reels you back in to check on your capital 
 later.
  
  Fable II has kept a lot of its predecessor's gameplay, but somehow has gotten a bit glitchier, 
 slow and irritating. When you want to press "A" to activate anything, expect to be pressing it 
 at least 3 or 4 times before it does what it is supposed to.
  
  Also, there are simply elements completely tossed out or changed... Such as the combat doesn't 
 feel anywhere near as fun as the first. It's still good, but it can get irritating, especially 
 when using magic and leaving yourself open to attack. And gaining experience no longer has a multiplier. 
 You can get bonus EXP if you battle well, but without the multiplier, battle lacks a sense of urgency. 
 The attack/flourish fighting is sometimes just not fun at all either.
  
  The small amount of clothing and weapons is idiotic too. It's probably the same amount as the first, 
 but it feels like less... because sequels are supposed to go overboard with these things, right? 
 I want to make my hero look like a hero for chrissake, so why do I only have the choice between 
 a pirate, a pioneer, and a mage? The dyes do add a bit of nice customization, but not enough.
 
  
  There are plenty of other quests if you beat the game (and you will) , but none of them add to the 
 story. The super lame story. Yeesh. It's flipping terrible... I already said that though. GAH, 
 IT'S SO BAD!
  
  Oh and the dog. The single thing I listened to Molyneux talk about in respect to this sequel. He 
 wanted to introduce "love" into it. But the dog really only helps you find treasure and if you 
 level him up really well he will kill enemies when they're down. Seriously, I forgot the dog was 
 there half the time though.
  
  Well, it was good fun while it lasted. Something about it stinks majorly though... and I don't 
 think it's just the fart or belch expressions. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brandonthesaint
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 7, 2008 8:07 am PT
Review:  
  The Fable franchise has always had a huge amount of hype behind it but hasn't always lived up to 
 the expectations. Thankfully Lionhead Studios has made sure to deliver an amazing game that revival 
 many other RPG's due to the massive amount of work that has clearly went into it (four years) .
 
  
  Story: Fable2's story goes something like this, a man kills your loved ones and has a diabolical 
 scheme to make a new world to take over the existing one and you have to stop him before he gets 
 what he wants. Of course, the story goes much more in-depth and presents many likable characters 
 that will help you along the way. Fable 2's story is, in my opinion, is much more enthralling than 
 some other RPG's. It's an actual piece of the game that keeps you going because you want to find 
 out what happens and you want to make the many, character and world changing, choices that are 
 presented to you throughout the game. It really is a shocking when you make a simple choice that 
 changes everything around you. The only problem I have with the story is the fact that it's too 
 short and doesn't take advantage of more hours of gameplay. It is a short game, but it is also 
 worth playing. The stories powerful choices and decisions keep you close to your character because 
 YOU are the one that decides almost everything in the world. 
  
  Gameplay: Fable 2 has incorporated a simple use of the B, Y, and X buttons that's easy to pick 
 and play but hard to master. This simple fighting system really pushes you to mix up the melee, 
 ranged, and magic attacks, this lets you set up some great combos and mixes up the enemy encounters. 
 Fable 2 keeps a steady and exciting use of combat that ends up being a fully realized mechanic 
 in the game. There is also an "emotional wheel" that you take control of to do different actions 
 (burp, laugh, whistle, etc.) and it changes people's perspective of you. This is a great way to 
 goof off or receive gifts from people, but it takes away from the overall feel of distress in different 
 parts of the world. 
  
  Graphics: Fable 2 is an oddity in the graphical department, the landscapes and overall level design 
 and detail are amazing and once in a while you'll get that "take your breath away" moment. The 
 only problem is the character designs in the game, don't get me wrong they have their own feel, 
 but they don't look as graphically beautiful as the world around them. Although some might say 
 that they were aiming for a more exaggerated cartoony feel, it doesn't fit with some of the later 
 bleak environments. Your character though is, wellawesome, the game will change your characters 
 face and body type as you play through it. You have no control of what your character looks like 
 and that's what ends up making the spiritual connection between you and your character stronger, 
 because in real life you will mature differently based on what you do. I, personally, loved the 
 graphics in Fable 2. I liked the overall feel of what the concept behind the game was like. The 
 characters in the world were just a small hiccup, and not all of them are too bad.
  
  Sound: Nothing really to point out here. All of the sounds are what you would expect (fighting, 
 people in the world etc) . Some of the people will keep repeating the same thing which gets annoying, 
 but it's what you should expect from an RPG type world. There are really no sound effects to point 
 out, but the music is great and helps you get a feel for the world, from the opening cinematic 
 to the end credits (the game isn't over when it ends) . 
  
  Overall: Fable 2 is an amazing experience that any RPG fan should play, but the length and some 
 of the humor pull it back from being a classic. I would tell you to buy it, but you can beat it 
 through a weekend, so rent it. It is definitely worth playing and I just hope that Fable 3 fixes 
 some of its faults. 
  
  P. S. Check out propixelreview. com, coming late 08' or early 09' 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: atheer87
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 13, 2008 10:34 pm PT
Review:  Peter Molyneux, the creator of this game made it sound like it was the best game anyone will ever 
 play, which is what it felt like for the first 10-15 hours. The combat is incredible, the sword 
 moves, magic spells, and gun made it so enjoyable and satisfying. However once you are done with 
 the surprisingly very easy and short main story and the repetitive side quests, you sort of cant 
 help feeling that the game is over, The only thing i feel the game is good for after that is the 
 Co-op and maybe playing another time as the bad guy and see what happens. Playing it just to stay 
 and buy things, make money, roam around, marry, have kids or whatever just wasn't that exciting 
 for me. I had a chance to sell the game to someone and get 90% of my money back but i chose not 
 to for some reason. I think i just wanted to have it in my game collection. Overall its beautifully 
 crafted enjoyably game but i just thought that the exciting bit of the game was over way too quick. 
 A lot of people are also encountering many glitches and bugs with the game including me, a few 
 are very very frustrating and effect your game play permanently : ( .. I am suffering. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: combatsoldier
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 7, 2008 3:21 am PT
Review:  Lets get right into it shall we. So here is the bottom line. I bought this game 7 days ago. I started 
 playing it 6 days ago and beat it in five days. Now You might say thats a short amount of time 
 but look at the amount of time I invested into it. Now honestly if you complete all the sidequests 
 witch is impossible in its own right then you could find yourself easily playing this game for 
 a solid 80 to 100 hours before you beat the game. 
  
  Now we will wiegh the pros and the cons. First Pro is the game is highly immersive and offers you 
 highly addictive gameplay that will keep you busy for many hours. The graphics are pretty good 
 but they couldve definitely been better. When it comes to finding hard treasure your dog that accompanies 
 you throughout the game helps you find secrets and quest treasures in order to move forward. So 
 that was innovative and a great help. Another thing I liked is you can just go directly to your 
 location on your map list instead of having to walk back and forth and back and forth over and 
 over again. So that was good. Another pro is the stroy mode is great. Bottom line the story is 
 beautiful and completely immerses you into the world of fable unlike any other RPG since the days 
 of Final Fantasy 7. Another big thing That I really liked is the realistate mode. You can buy businesses 
 and homes and then make profit off of them. IT is really unique and a great assett that is needed 
 so good job and extra brownie points for that. I personally loved how they start you out as a child 
 and you see his whole life evolve into an old man if you choose. You can get married to as many 
 women as you want and have children. Overall this game is very impressive and has a hell of a lot 
 to offer.
  
  Now here are the cons of the game. This will hopefully be much shorter then the pros witch is definitely 
 a good thing. Okay lets start out with the story. It is really great. It is exceptionally hard 
 to stay good in the game witch I managed to do 100 percent. The problem with this story is if you 
 decide to just play straight through the game and not do any of the side quests. You may be able 
 to beat it in several hours. Maybe less then a day. Also the game has three endings. I know they 
 do that for replay value but come on. IF I just invested 100 hours into the game I dont want to 
 play it over and over. That is just boring for me. Im ready to move on. Now you may disagree with 
 what im about to say however I found this feauture highly annoying and it really pissed me off. 
 The 2 player mode in the game. They added a feauture that will allow you to play with another friend. 
 Yes now at first this sounds really cool, until you are playing a quest and trying to do something 
 and then out of nowhere someone pops out into the game and destroys everything. I mean you could 
 spend hours trying to get the townspeople to adore you and then someone could just burst in uninvited 
 and completely make everyone hate you, not to mention they can kill key players in the game witch 
 will have a huge affect on the story. So bottom line is that it is a feauture even if you turn 
 off in settings they can still pressure you and stalk you with flying orbs. Even if you turn that 
 mode off as well, it just doesnt work. People will literally go out of there way just to jump into 
 your game. Although that is cool, it is also very annoying if your in one of those I want to be 
 left alone moods. Lastly the biggest annoyance with this game is the achievements. About 25 of 
 the 50 achievements are just downright stupid and annoying. Some of them you cant even do without 
 having to play online witch is completely unfair in its own right. This game offers the most annoying 
 and lame achievements I have ever seen in any game. Seriously for example. Strike a perfect pose 
 with a friend in a two player game. Or kick a chicken or see someone kick a chicken. Its like are 
 you serious. How about making more achievements related to the combat mode or to side quest mode. 
 Give me a break.
  
  Anyways over all it is a great game and the single best RPG out in a very very long time. I strongly 
 recommend it if you are looking for a game to get completely lost and immerssed in. I warn you 
 though this game is highly addicting and it is hard to put down. So tell your loved ones youll 
 see them in a couple of days becuse you are going into the virtual world of fable. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Avariceon
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 7, 2008 1:49 am PT
Review:  The review for this game, will be a short one... not unlike it's lackluster story. can we say boring? 
 i hope so. pros to fable 1: great story, great game play, great character progression system based 
 on choices. Cons to fable 1, lacking items, lacking clothes, sub-par magic system. Pros to fable 
 2: great game play, great character progression system based on choices, better magic system. Cons 
 to fable 2: lacking items, lacking clothes, lacking weapons, too easy.
  
  looks like lionhead learned from their mistakes in fable 1 and unfortunately, the story has gotten 
 worse, i mean come on, revenge? woah, that's original. oooo and a tower that can grant any wish? 
 Nice! Not! And i dare not mention the LACK OF FREEROAMING that was promised, widening the trail 
 doesn't count as free-roaming. And WTF happened to the minimap? Just who thought it was a good 
 idea to replace that with a ******* golden piss trail that can't even ******* keep up??? And the 
 multiplayer is almost bad enough that it would be better if you didn't have it at all, but not 
 quite. just separate the camera for LIVE players into individual cameras, and let us use our own 
 heroes instead of the robot cookie cut outs. Do yourself a favor and rent it, unless you want all 
 the dumb-ass achievements like Goth... otherwise, you'll be able to beat it in about 3-8 hours seeing 
 as how the penalty for death is what...1% of your experience, wow, ouch. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Big_K-lashy
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 6, 2008 6:16 pm PT
Review:  When i first saw Gamespots review on Fable II i was annoyed and peeved that they had given it just 
 an 8.5, when i was expecting 9.5 at least. But having played the game, and completed it, i can 
 see its a fair review. The thing is with Fable, its great while it lasts, and then it ended...
 
  
  First of all, just like to talk about the combat, I've read a lot of user reviews and a few people 
 seem to believe this is one button combat, and it's not. Basically yes the X button does your melee 
 attacks, and once you level up, you hold X to block, and hold X and push the left stick in any 
 direction to preform a flourish in that direction, and then there's the reversals you can do, and 
 then there's the Y button, which is your ranged attacks and this too can be upgraded and made much 
 more impressive, and then there's B which is the magic button and there's a handful of spells to 
 use, all of which have 2 variations, one spell effect is to cast the spell on the surrounding area 
 and the other effect is to aim the spell at a specific target. And overall the combat is really 
 good and its up to you to mix it up, so all of you fools that sit there pressing the same button 
 then complain its a one button system, try pressing the pretty Y & B button too, fools.
  
  And next of course is the graphics. Well the graphics on Fable II aren't what I'd call ground breaking 
 but everything has a nice design and the character models and all the buildings have a nice unique 
 look and design about them, so when it all comes together it looks pretty amazing. Its worth pointing 
 out the games amazing sun light effects, but anybody that's seen the sun rise through the trees 
 and over the sea will know what I'm talking about, the sun rays the game creates around different 
 objects looks pretty stunning at times, and all the great design is helped along by some great 
 music in the background, it all goes really nicely together, being out in the wilderness for the 
 first time on the first part of the game is where you realize that the most. 
  
  Okay, now for the things i didn't like in Fable II, warning to those who haven't played the game 
 or completed it, the next paragraph could be looked at as a spoiler, while not stating any specific 
 facts, it will give you some form of idea of the games rewards and such. Basically, when i came 
 to open Demon Doors & Silver Key Chests, i was disappointed and its put me off the game now. [SIDE 
 MISSION SPOILER] There is a quest that requires you fight you're way through a haunted place and 
 kill the ghosts of many pirates until you get to the captain and then yes you kill him, and get 
 his "Treasure" map, and at this point, i was pretty excited, having been disappointed by the lack 
 of clothing items and such i was hoping to have a smile on my face! But no, you get to this island, 
 and then you have to find and open 10 "Treasure" chests, and in each of the chests, is 1500 gold, 
 Don't get me wrong, you can always use a bit more gold, but, this Pirate Captain was talked about 
 and was supposed to be legendary, so why would his treasure be so poor? And the problem also, is 
 that, you earn rent money from every building you own, and the only way you're going to struggle 
 with buying all the time buildings is if you rush, so yeah, with very little effort involved you 
 can get yourself a nice load-some of money every 5 minutes of the game, and of course stop playing 
 and wake up to even more gold, so why the hell the game feels the need to reward you with gold 
 is beyond me and gives the impression Lionhead just got bored without the gold rewards. [LAST DEMON 
 DOOR AND LAST SILVER KEY CHEST SPOILER] Continuing with the crappy reward system, after working 
 so very hard, to gain access to the million gold castle and all the silver keys you need to open 
 the chest inside it, and working hard to get all the demon doors, the rewards you receive for doing 
 all this work are practically insulting. For getting all the silver keys you get more gold coins... for 
 opening all the demon doors you get, yep you guessed it, yet more gold coins. And the other problem 
 is that, with all that gold, what can you possibly buy when you have all the buildings in the game?... nothing 
 that you need, so is it a waste of time?... Yes!
  
  And yes, the ending of the game, i honestly loved the story on Fable II, it's great, and just when 
 it started to get amazing, and i really started getting into it, it just ends, and its highly disappointing, 
 there's no feeling of accomplishment.
  
  So! Overall. Amazing game when it starts out, the world is great its a fun place to be, the dog 
 is great, the combat is brilliant, but, you just can't help but feeling let down by the content 
 in the game, and there's a few bugs, none of them major so not worth pointing out them individually. 
 So as much as i love Fable II and Fable: The Lost Chapters, and of course just Fable, i really 
 feel that they NEED to redeem themselves with some amazing downloadable content for Fable II. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PanamaJack445
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 6, 2008 4:25 pm PT
Review:  General:
  This game isn't too much of a stretch from its predecessor - Fable. The story, while interesting, 
 was typical and the plot twists were somewhat predictable. For an RPG, there were some mild innovations 
 to be realized in this release and some shortcomings to address.
  
  Gameplay/Mechanics:
  The gameplay was interesting and fairly straight forward. Nothing too complicated. The combat system 
 is pretty easy to get the hang of, but terribly unchallenging and remains virtually unchanged from 
 the beginning of the game until the end. While you may improve your character's strength, skills 
 and will the combat isn't greatly affected by these things, at least not to the degree by which 
 it is affected by your weapons and their augments.
  
  Something that bothered me was there was no distinguishing factor (besides appearance) between 
 someone who exclusively used one of the combat forms (will, strength and skill) and someone who 
 used all of them. There are no penalties for being a Jack of all trades in this game, infact it 
 tends to be far more affective in combat. Only using one or two of the combat types typically left 
 you a far less formidable hero against the countless enemies you must fight. The storyline justifies 
 this, but doesn't change the fact that it makes the game very unchallenging. The only way to truly 
 challenge yourself in this game would be to restrict yourself to only one form of combat, but even 
 still, after a short period of time when augments and certain weapon types or spells at certain 
 levels become available that newfound challenge quickly fades.
  
  Which bring me to my next gripe - money. Money is ridiculously easy to make in this game. Aside 
 from a glitch that could bring your character hordes of gold, you could simply buy everything you 
 can afford in Bowerstone Old Town. Since you automatically get a 50% discout on the base value 
 of all items at all the stalls there from the very beginning of the game, you could then continually 
 resell the items you purchase there to vendors in Fairfax Gardens where they will pay you slightly 
 more than the item's base value each time, which allows you to continually double your investments. 
 
  
  After doing this a few times, property investment becomes one of the next goals to consider. While 
 the developers have certainly added a very interesting concept to the genre, the fact that you 
 can earn gold from not having your xbox on seems terribly ridiculous, especially when considering 
 the ease with which money can be made in this game in the first place.
  
  There's also two scales by which your character's appearance and NPC's opinions of your character 
 are made. Firstly is the bar of Good vs. Evil, which rates how "good" or "evil" your character 
 is based on a few actions. The second bar measures how "pure" or "corrupt" your character is. Anything 
 from major story choices to eating certain types of foods could affect these bars and the two don't 
 always go hand in hand. This again becomes another easily manipulated game element. Good/Evil and 
 Pure/Corrupt points are very easy to earn in simple deeds and your character's story choices never 
 have a permanent affect on him, which is disappointing and unchallenging. 
  
  Lastly I'll talk about character interaction. This was one of the larger gripes I had with this 
 game. Your character's interactions with any NPC in the game is reduced exclusively to gestures. 
 Whether it be putting on a hand puppet show, or farting until you've soiled your pants, you character 
 will never speak a word to another character in the game... EVER! This makes the world terribly 
 less interesting, and to make things worse every NPC you encounter with a few exceptions to the 
 story are one of a million just like them. Every town carries maybe two or three varieties of characters 
 who are all essentially dressed the same, and because of the lack of depth or character interaction, 
 pretty much are the same with the exception of their names being different.
  
  Conclusion:
  RPGs are terribly difficult games to make because they have to address a larger 
 number of ingame mechanics, but I felt that developers could've done a better job. While they brought 
 some interesting concepts to the RPG world, like property investment, character interactions that 
 can result in marriage and children, there was more work to be done here. 
  
  Making money is far too easy and makes the game terribly unchalleging. Combat is stale and unchanging, 
 and lacks the logical penalties that would be in place to prevent Jack of all trades type characters 
 that make the game even less challenging.
  
  Character interaction is terribly limited and every character looks the same, there's not enough 
 customization to NPCs or your own character. Overall, I felt that it's worth playing if you enjoy 
 the series and want to see it's continuation. There were some interesting aspects to the story 
 itself depending on your character's choices that would be worth seeing. However, if you're new 
 to the series or just looking for a good RPG, I'd rent this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jrhart24
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 6, 2008 1:15 pm PT
Review:  Released the same week as Far Cry 2, I wasn't looking forward to this game as much as Far Cry 2 
 and almost didn't purchase it. I'm definitely glad I did, though not quite the 100 hours I was 
 expecting. I thought I did a majority of the side quests.
  
  Excellent graphics, good sound, one button combat better this time around than the first game. 
 Your dog is great and adds an element of depth to the game. Making gold is easy, side quests are 
 fun, and the nps are amusing. The aging process really irritated me because it was not as smooth 
 as the first game. Even if you do some of the extra side quests, you will still feel like you age 
 instantly. Also, my hot warrior chick turned into an ugly, chunky, old lady by the end of the game 
 and that was disappointing, haha. I wanted more control over how she looked.
  
  But in the end, it was worth my money and I will probably play through as an evil character so 
 the replay value is high.
  
  Now all we need is The Elder Scrolls: Fable and we'll have a perfect rpg. :D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ewmgreendawg
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 6, 2008 8:40 am PT
Review:  Fable 2 unsuccessfully combines a variety of different things but none of them are particularly 
 interesting or fun. The combat is the equivalent of an arcade beat em' up from the 80's. In other 
 words, press the same button over and over again. The name of Fable could easily be switched to 
 "press x" and nobody could argue it. Press x to make the bad (or good) guys go away. Press x to 
 make people like you. Press x to chop wood so you can buy a house for your wife to live in. Press 
 x to "have sex". As a side note, for a game thats rated M it's remarkably tame. I would go so far 
 to say that the art style, simplicity, and humor of the game all cater to 9 year old boys. You 
 won't find anything in here thats more explicit than an episode of Ally McBeal. The game is about 
 as exciting as an episode of Ally McBeal too. If you want a good beat em' up and good life sim 
 then you can buy harvest moon for 5 bucks and castle crashers for 15. I just saved you $40 bucks. 
 If you want a game thats dramatic, beautiful, fun, innovative, immersive, and deserving of an M 
 rating then you should be playing fallout 3 instead. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SR71halo
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 6, 2008 8:46 am PT
Review:  When the first Fable was released 4 years ago, it was one of the best RPGs I ever played. However, 
 I never expected a sequel to come out of it. Now, finally after 4 years of waiting, Fable 2 improves 
 on its predecessor for one highly addicting adventure.
  
  I can't really tell too much of the plot because even the beginning has too many spoilers but it 
 takes 500 years after the first Fable and instead of the medieval theme like most RPGs have (including 
 the first Fable) , Fable 2 gives us a Colonial theme. You have the option to be a boy or a girl 
 this time too. The only problem is, like the first game, the main quests altogether are WAY too 
 short. In fact, I think this game might be shorter than the first. However, there are a ton of 
 side quests and there's even more after you beat it. When you're done with the side quests, there's 
 even more to do still.
  
  Like the first Fable, you have the choice to be either good or evil and the effects are pretty 
 similar to before (good = everyone loves you and you have a halo, evil = everyone fears you and 
 you grow horns and your skin turns pale) . However, there is now also purity and corruption, which 
 can be altered depending on what you do in the game. You also have the choice to be a swordsman 
 or a mage like the first game but the long bow has been replaced by guns (although the cross bow 
 is still available) .
  
  The dog is probably one of my favorite features of this game. Your dog is your best friend in this 
 world and your choices inspire his look and personality (if your good, your dog's fur turns into 
 a yellowish color and he's nice but if you're evil, he's more aggressive and his fur turns black) . 
 You can praise your dog, punish your dog, play fetch or give him a treat. When he gets hurt, you 
 can heal him as well. He doesn't really fight but he attacks enemies while they are down. The main 
 purpose of your dog is finding enemies and treasure. He'll bark if there are enemies up ahead and 
 he'll let you know if there is a treasure chest nearby or even a dig spot.
  
  There are many ways to make money this time around too. You can play pub games either outside of 
 the game in the "Fable 2 Pub games" available from the XBLA or you can play the games in the, well, 
 pubs. You can buy out as many buildings as you can and collect your total income every 5 minutes 
 (which is automatically given to you) and you can also adjust the prices of the rent (raising it 
 will make you more corrupt) . Lastly, you can take jobs which are available all around Albion. Most 
 jobs (blacksmith, wood cutter, and bartender) in the game just involve pushing "A" at the right 
 time but the more you work, the more money you earn from the job. Other jobs (bounty hunter, assassin, 
 and citizen displacement) involve going out somewhere and completing a task (bounty hunter eliminates 
 a certain group of enemies, assassin kills a certain person, sometimes under certain conditions, 
 and citizen displacement is looking for a villager who meets certain features and selling them 
 into slavery) .
  
  You also have the option to get married in this game much like the first but there's much more 
 too it. Villagers have certain characteristics about them like what personality they have, what 
 gifts or expressions they like and hate, and what places in Albion they like or hate. Once your 
 married, you can have sex in this game like the first one but this time, you can actually have 
 children. Your kid is usually like you, if your good, then your kid is good. If you're evil, your 
 kid is aggressive.
  
  Another brand new feature in this game is co-op. You can bring friends into your own world on Xbox 
 Live or on the same system (although on a local system, your friend must choose a different hero 
 for their appearance) . Anything that your friend gets in your world (experience, gold, etc) gets 
 transferred back to his/or own world. From what I've played, co-op is pretty fun.
  
  I can go on for a little while longer about every little detail about this game but this was a 
 hard game to review. At least I gave you the basic ideas of what this game has to offer. Fable 
 2 is an epic and addicting RPG that I recommend to anyone who liked the first Fable or just wants 
 a new RPG experience.
  
  I can't wait for Fable 3. :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sputnjik
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 6, 2008 7:38 am PT
Review:  Since I haven't played the firs Fable I didn't know what to expect, and I must say I was a bit 
 sceptical about the whole experience but boy was I wrong. In the era of post-nuclear shooters and 
 various other violent games this one turned out to be a warm human story with elements of magic 
 and mystery in the age of heroes. 
  You will start of as a child living in the streets of an old town with your sister that dreams 
 of livingin a nearby castle and that is where the magic kicks in. The choices you make as a child 
 will have consequences on the outcome of a game and the whole world around you so it is here that 
 you decide if you are gonna be god or bad.
  Not to spoil the game at the end of your childhood faze you will emerge in a nearby Gypsy camp 
 raised by a blind witch and with your firs quest you will become a hero. You also have a faithful 
 companion throughout the whole game a dog that you can train to do tricks and fight and locate 
 buried treasure...
  From there on I will leave you to play for yourself and make your own destiny. 
  The game-play 
 is great but the loading time are a pace breaker so be ready for that. 
  Basically the battles are not that hard and you have at your disposal various ammount of melee 
 and ranged weapons and spells. You will also acquire skill points by killing foes of drinking potions 
 that will enable you to become stronger, more skilled in weapon use or better at various spells. 
 
  Since there is a lot of interaction with the world you will also be able to communicate with other 
 NPC's and your dog with a wide variety of expressions, some of witch will come to you during gameplay 
 and some you can learn by reading books. 
  The money system requires you to get jobs, and I must say working as a bartender or a blacksmith 
 has never been more fun. The real money however is in investments and if invest wisely it will 
 pay out, and I mean really pay out. 
  As far as the customization of your character the possibilities are endless so based on how deep 
 your pocket is you can be a bearded tattooed women, with a lot or no make up, fat or thin and based 
 on how good you've been you can be feared or loved.
  Dieing in Fable is a no no but every time you are knocked down you get a scar and it stays there 
 as a constant reminder. 
  In cinclusion I would recommend this game to all of you that are tired of linear shooters, or postapocalyptic 
 nuclear wastelands. This is plain fun with a great story behind it amazing surroundings. Enjoy... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RJtheShadow
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 6, 2008 5:14 am PT
Review:  Aaaaaah, its good to be back in Albion...
  
  500 years later, yet the mysterious lady feels familiar...
  I was intrigued from the first moment, 
 astonished by its beauty.
  
  As with the Half-Life series, the creators took the guts to assume a choice, even though we couldve 
 picked the other choices. (as where you could choose a sort of 'suicide' in Half-Life 1, HL2 assumes 
 you did not)
  This is something I admire from creators. The guts to pull the games to their will just to be able 
 to make a great game and NOT leave irritating gaps (being the past choices of past games) .
  
  The humor is astounding, especially those during loading screens.
  - 'Around the time the 
 Hero defeated Jack of Blades for a second time, it was suggested that the same hero murderred the 
 guild master. With an inscription on his forehead "Your Health i slow" '
  -' "I heard that in the old times, the Guildmaster could talk to any Hero at any time... sounds 
 annoying" Overheard from a citizen of Albion'
  Loading screens have never been so much fun! ^^
  (I loosely quoted it, am not accountable if 
 its not fully accurate)
  
  There are often a few irritances, bugs if you will.
  But no game is perfect.
  Its only a reason to continue this fabulous serie.
  
  Worth getting 
 if youre new to the serie, but be sure to buy (or rent) Fable: TLC afterwards, just so you can 
 get the jokes you otherwise wouldn't get.
  And for the veterans... Must have.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: itsreiko57dudes
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 6, 2008 4:42 am PT
Review:  I'll start by saying I love the original fable, it was the first game I had ever played where you 
 could be good or evil and was original and just fun. Fable 2 misses where fable 1 hit because the 
 idea is not original and the game just isn't fun. We've all played this game and that was 5 years 
 ago.
  
  Graphics- 8, The world does look really nice, the animation bothers me a little bit the fighting 
 and such looks good. I can't knock something that IS good.
  
  Sound- 7, I would have rated higher but once again, we've heard it all before, its just sharper 
 and "newer"
  
  Story- 5, I don't have much to say here, not original nor engaging, short.. feels a bit pointless.
 
  
  Tilt- 3, This game just isn't what it should be for this long after fable 1, I was very dissapointed 
 with the lack of progression from fable
  
  Replay- 7, You'll probably want to play through a second time to see things you missed (if you 
 did at all) and play as evil (or good)
  
  I wouldn't buy this game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HahnsHaven
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 5, 2008 9:37 pm PT
Review:  This is my first review in like 9 months so yeah but moving on! 
  
  Fable II is like, well... A good game! Your set in the world of Albion where you start out as a 
 pore kid where you get bird S*** smacked on to your head. If you play the first game you sourt've 
 have the same starting as in you have to get 5 GOLD coins to buy something (NO SPOILERS) where 
 then your set as an adult where you do great or horrifing deeds to finish the story and live your 
 virtual life.
  
  The game starts out fantastic with lush visuals and top notch british voice actors. The combat 
 is easy as in there's 1 button for melee, 1 for ranged, and 1 magic. This helps as in the fact 
 that you are usually swarmed by mass numbers of badies. But here's where easy crap comes in, YOU 
 CANT DIE FOR CRAP! All that happens is you get knocked out for less than a second and all that 
 you lose are the EXP. orbs from the dead enemies that you didn't pick up. For the people that want 
 a challenge, don't buy this game (althought I don't so I luv Fable II) . Also if your thinking of 
 spending hours on end playing the rich story, your screwed because the story can be beaten in 5 
 hours if all you did is the story. Unless you can stretch a game out for long periods of time, 
 it's best for you probbly not to spend it imediatly on this. But other then that it's a really 
 cool game ^_^.
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  EASY WAY TO MAKE LOTS OF MONEY! DON'T LOOK FURTHER DOWN IF YOU DON"T WANT TO KNOW!
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
  
  
  All you have to do to make tons of money in Fable II is to be able to buy master weapons and have 
 atleast 100,000 GOLD. Go to the blacksmith shops all around the world and buy all their weapons. 
 Then, go to Fairfax Gardens and find a travel merchant who sells weapons and make sure that they 
 have a 34 percent mark up in price. THen sell them all your weapons and buy the time you sell the 
 last one, you should have more money then before you purchased all the weapons. The reason why 
 you make a lot of money is because Fairfax Gardens has a great economy (Unlike the U. S.) and that 
 means their stuff that they sell will cost more but the stuff you sell to them gives you more. 
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: GameJunkieKyle
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 23, 2008 12:43 am PT
Review:  As someone who hasn't played the original Fable, I didn't really know what to expect with Fable 
 II, but during the weeks leading up to this 360 exclusive's launch, the trailers, interviews and 
 previews caught my attention, and I began getting excited and hyped up for this title. After beating 
 it, I must say that I wasn't disappointed. Fable II lives up to it's hype and is an amazing game.
 
  
  Fable's world is detailed, colorful and full of life. The game has a cool art style which contains 
 bright colors that always catch your attention and countless unique areas. The world is large and 
 there are plenty of quests to keep you busy for a long time, and although the story isn't the best, 
 the characters and voice work are great. I really enjoyed the side quests and although you have 
 the option to blast through the story in a relatively short time, you have to play through the 
 side quests to get the full experience.
  
  Allowing the player to choose between good and evil has been done before, but Fable II does it 
 best. Your character changes from how he or she acts, and so does the game's world and people in 
 it. Making a good character will result in praise from the people of Fable's world while an evil 
 character will result in hate and fear. Your character's, as well as your dog's appearance is based 
 on how good or evil you are. 
  
  I was somewhat disappointed with the lack of choice that Fable II offered with it's story. Not 
 much changes and it only allows you to make some large decisions, rather than several smaller ones. 
 There really aren't many different outcomes for the story, and the lack of choice is a little disappointing, 
 very similar to Mass Effect, which had the same problem. 
  
  The game offers cooperative play over Xbox Live with two people. It's a fun mode where you can 
 invite players into your world or visit theirs and gain experience and help them progress in their 
 stories. Unfortunately, you can't bring in your own character, your forced to use a generic one 
 while your visiting another game. Regardless, exploring Fable's world with a friend is great fun 
 and gives the game quite a bit of replay value. 
  
  Fable II is worth checking out if you enjoy RPGs and have an Xbox 360. I couldn't put my controller 
 down when playing through the first time, and there's enough side quests to keep you busy playing 
 for a long time. 
  
  Good: Huge world to explore, fun storyline and characters, lots to do
  
  Bad: Story is over 
 too quick, not enough choices, can't use your character in other people's games
  
  Final Score: 9/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pyrofire
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 5, 2008 8:51 pm PT
Review:  I was very excited to buy this game when. I pre-ordered it (special edition) and went to the midnight 
 release party. I played this and was entertained by it. I liked that they added more area for you 
 to walk around in and allowed you to replay areas to gain more experience from the monsters. At 
 first I was only bothered by how easy it was (No penalty for death, very easy monsters) and that 
 there was no way to wait (let in game time skip around) , I was absolutely shocked when thinking 
 I was half way through the game and found I had actually beaten it. The plot storyline is extremely 
 short! Extremely! The ending was also one of the most anti-climatic that I've ever seen in a game. 
 I was so pissed by how short, how easy, and how big of a disappointment this game was, that immediately 
 after finishing the game I took it to gamestop and traded it in for Fallout 3 (way, way better) 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jambajuice95
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 5, 2008 6:59 pm PT
Review:  Fable II is an extremely fun experience that anyone who owns a 360 should ocnsider playing. Though 
 the higher the pedastal the harder the fall. They announced Fable II, I think it was about two 
 years ago and people were expecting a revolutionary game. A lot of people thought "Hey, Fable was 
 great so Fable II must be even better!" The game was very good, but it probbably wasn't a good 
 as the first. The game was extremely easy, when you die there isn't really a penalty except you 
 get a scar and you lose any xp that you didn't pick up. The main story-line was incredible short. 
 If I didn't do any side-quests, I easily could have gotten the main quest done within a day. Making 
 money is a lot easier then in the first one, because every building is up for sell. So after a 
 while you have a nice income going. In fighting, theres nothing special, there are times now that 
 you pretty much need to use magic, where in the previous game, I went through the whole game without 
 using magic attacks. Now, They said that the game was a lot more free and that you didn't need 
 to use roads or anithing. Yeah, that's true. If you have no problem with getting your ass lost! 
 I just stick to the roads most of the time, because there isn't really much to explore. There isn't 
 any armour in this game, just clothing and there aren't very many varieties to clothing. As everyone 
 knows, you can have children is this one, the prblem is that in this one if you are married, you 
 have to stay with your family a lot or else your wife gets sad and divorces you. Then a box pops 
 up that says 
  "Your wife has left the area. After her death the children foster agency took your son/daughter 
 away."
  It's not the best games that I've played but it's still fun, and worth playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RightFromWrong
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 5, 2008 6:24 pm PT
Review:  okay i hate RPG i just absolutely can't stand them but this game is a total masterpiece, the best 
 RPG i have ever played, i spend more time doing this than cod4... its highly addictive and really 
 fun, the main quest should only take you 10~12 hours if u just go through that, but fable 2 supports 
 many opportunities, from jobs to real estate, using co-op to gain exp. i mean its all i want and 
 more. beautiful art design and simple combat system makes this the definite RPG of this year, exploring 
 and finding hidden treasures with your friends will take most of your time, exploring isn't big 
 as the huge world in fallout 3, but this game beats fallout 3 in any other way, everything is simple, 
 thats why i like this game, the combat, the quests, the maps, especially the level and exp. spending, 
 unlike fallout 3 and square enix RPGs , this game has 3 simple ways strength, skill, and will an 
 unnecesaary crap like charisma like in fallout..... definite game u must get this year with gears 
 2 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kvon403
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 28, 2008 1:59 pm PT
Review:  Fable II is a pretty good game but I would'ent comapre it to Fallout 3 or another RPG because it 
 just would'ent stack up against them in graphics or gameplay even though it is in the early 1600's 
 -1700's it's still not a bad game. now time for the gameplay I think the gameplay is good gameplay 
 system but could be refind a little bit more because it dos'ent really capture any of the action 
 going on in a up close sword battle like some games have a action system like V. A. T. S. in Fallout 
 3 so that could be fixed. Now time for wepons they have to have more wepons because there are not 
 that many to find like there maybe a variety of swords but there are just not enough guns to find 
 or buy but there probably were not alot of guns back then so I can understand that. Also you have 
 a dog that follows you around so that's cool and there are not alot of different enemy's to fight 
 but there are alot scattered across the map so it's fun. That's all I have to say and I would defenitly 
 buy it if your into the magic sort of medevil type RPG 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DARKESTxNME
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 5, 2008 4:28 pm PT
Review:  I love the first fable and i love fable2 more...
  Let me tell you, This game is worth picking up if you love the first but the people that dont? 
 theirs nothing special for you here. Move along...
  
  Single-Player is intresting and solid but short (8 to 10hrs) if you rush. That got me mad but thats 
 the only thing that did. I know dont rush, but i couldn't resist... O well! But the world of Albion 
 is gorgeous, the music and voice-acting are outstanding, loads of side quests more than 50hrs in 
 total, good exp system, alots of stuff and activitys to do (work, be a parent, etc) . 
  
  About the parent system is good but whats the point of raising your child if he/she cant be a hero 
 or something (think about, if your own child going to quest with you) it would be cool besides your 
 dog.
  
  Everything in this game isnt perfect. You get money a little too easy, the game isn't challenging 
 enough, COOP needs a bit work and the story falls too short...
  
  Overall! with its rich, fantasy world of Albion this is a must have for Fable Fans and RPGs fans 
 should check this game out...
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Conway-San
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 5, 2008 11:58 am PT
Review:  i think there are so many great things about this game and the designers have even put the little 
 things in it that make this game a much more in depth game with std's you can catch teaches a good 
 lesson in a fun way. i think fable 2 will be very hard to beat in its genre and with all these 
 amazing games coming out im glad i picked this one!
  
  if you want a game where you can mix and match your character to be like yourself or even someone 
 you know with many customisable features fable 2 allows you to delve into the world of Albion and 
 make you feel like you are there.
  
  Rating
  
  Sound 9/10 - great music to the game all the way through (you know when a big fight is coming)
 
  
  Visual 9/10 - the way they have made the people not look too realistic makes this game even more 
 attractive
  
  Game play 8/10 - flawless except the mana bar (unlimited mana makes for an easy game if your a 
 magic user)
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Missile129
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 5, 2008 10:23 am PT
Review:  Fable 2 is certainly a fantastic game with plenty of things to do after completing the initial 
 story, not to mention the "side stuff" while you're doing the story. Unfortunately it has far too 
 many parts that are not up to scratch and a whole dictionary of glitches to follow it up!
  
  Yes, Fable 2 is crammed with glitches. From the minor but annoying to the major and frustrating 
 right through to the catastrophically gamebreaking - the only solution is to restart your entire 
 game. 
  
  Though i say "entire" with some exaggeration. The story is, undeniably, short. At the beginning 
 of the game you receive some cards which literally lay the story out for you. By the time you complete 
 the first one, you'll be thinking they can't all possibly be this easy let alone short. The fact 
 of the matter is: no sooner will you ask yourself this question than you will be killing the final 
 boss.
  
  Speaking of which, the final boss is also incredibly easy. It took me one hit to kill him - he 
 fell off the edge and thus died; i struggled more on the bosses before him! A rather definitive 
 factor that makes this game easy is the "death" feature. When your health bar is depleted you are 
 "knocked out". After about 5 seconds all foes around you are pushed backwards and you jump right 
 back into the battle at full health. The penalties for death: Loss of some experience gained that 
 is not spent, all not collected experience dissappears (easily avoided by slamming the right trigger 
 before you die) and your character gains a scar. A Resurrection Vial will stop these negative effects 
 but lets face it, unless you are really saving up EXP or are self conscious of a scar on your face, 
 there's not much point. It also means the Crucible, which you are told is a very dangerous place 
 and you should make sure you are fully prepared, is a walk in the park - YOU CAN'T DIE! 
  
  That said, Fable 2 does have some replay value. Despite a short story you can make additional characters 
 (however only one save file is allowed per character) and there are 3 different endings to game 
 which also affect your "post-story play". Although the story may be short, there are plenty of 
 little extras on the side, for example gambling, getting married and having children, perhaps even 
 committing bigamy! Houses to buy, businesses to purchase, decorations to make everything just how 
 you like it. 
  
  Furthermore there are a wide variety of jobs available at different times that can earn you money. 
 These range from woodcutting to the assassination missions. Unfortunately, most of these jobs are 
 a "press A when the cursor is in the green section" or "press A when the bar turns green but make 
 sure it doesn't hit the end" - quite frankly boring after a few minutes of play. Although in later 
 levels, when you are promoted and have a good chain of perfects, they can become rather challenging 
 and entertaining - you have to get there first, break the chain and it's back to easy boring stuff...
 
  
  So what about character customisation? Well, you can choose between a boy and a girl, get tattoos, 
 change your armor from a choice of a rather poor selection. Yes Fable 2 doesn't have many armor 
 selections at all. Infact, i'd say there are less 10 "sets" but obvious numerous ways to mix and 
 match them. In addition, the armor does not have any different armor values other than how it affects 
 your good/evil pure/corrupt alignment. 
  
  Ahh of course, the thing that makes Fable, Fable! Not only is our beloved Good vs Evil alignment 
 in the game where every action you make affects how good or evil you are and thus your character 
 (Halos or horns for example) . Often there are 2 routes you can take on a quest: one good and one 
 evil. In addition to the good vs evil is a pure vs corrupt. This one is based on things such as 
 the food you eat - were any animals killed in the making of it? Having two alignment certainly 
 opens the window of opourtunity, for example a Good/Corrupt character makes an interesting concept. 
 That said, it is a lot easier and quicker to be evil - mainly because mercilessly killing everyone 
 you meet doesn't take much effort considering you can't die!
  
  Combat in Fable 2 is definately an amazing structure. You can use your melee abilities or Strength, 
 your fantastic skill with the ranged weapons (including guns) and your grasp of the power of Will 
 (magic) . As you attack enemies in different ways you will gain different experience - in strength, 
 skill and will, in addition to general experience which can be substituted as either of the 3. 
 It is certainly a pleasurable experience to shoot someone with your gun, zap them with lightning 
 and then appear right behind them before delivering that fatal blow with a gleaming sword.
  
  Although armor may not be very diverse, weapons are. Melee includes swords, axes, maces, hammer, 
 katanas. Ranged weapons include guns of all different shapes and sizes in addition to bows. Will 
 includes a vast amount of spells on offer, unlike the previous fable, they are not affected by 
 your good/evil or pure/corrupt alignment either. I will say however, atleast in my opinion, spells 
 are more offensively aimed. There is no longer and armor spell or healing spell. The most defensive 
 spells would be Force Push (pushes everyone within range backwards while dealing strong damage) , 
 Chaos (confuses foes, they may scrub the floor or even blow you a kiss!) , Time Control (which is 
 usually used as an offensive spell anyway) and Vortex (summons a vortex that traps foes) . 
  
  Considering you can not talk, your interaction with the world is fairly limited and done through 
 the emotions you learn as you play the game. Infact at several intervals other characters will 
 comment on your quietness. Emotions come with their own minor challenge too and yes, its the release 
 the button when your cursor is in the green bit - again! You can also interact by purchasing gifts 
 for to give to people in addition to receiving gifts from them if you make them like you enough 
 - or scare them! 
  
  Finding treasure is easy with your trusted canine friend who will bark and lead you to all treasure 
 whether you need to dig or simply open the chest he'll be there for you! You can even teach your 
 dog tricks and give him a name.
  
  Sure you have the money, money is easy to get in Fable 2, but where do you spend it? It would help 
 if shops didn't run out of stock after buying 1 of an item. That means if you want 2 health potions 
 you have to visit 2 potion shops or come back later. How annoying...
  
  In my opinion, Fable 2 focuses too much on the "added extras" and forgets about the actual storyline. 
 
  
  While Fable 2 is a fantastic game from start to finish, completing all those extra bits on the 
 side and post-story, it feels a little lacking. There isn't even a decent map feature! If you visit 
 forums or review sites, which i assume you do considering you are reading this, you will play this 
 game in utter fear of having a glitch that will make you have to restart everything, albeit very 
 little, again. We all sit here saying "It will never happen to me", the truth it: it can and it 
 most probably will. Your glitch might not be game breaking, but it's a glitch nonetheless. We shouldn't 
 have to play a game this buggy; I'd have preferred it to be delayed. Well this is a lesson for 
 everyone who complains about delays: it IS often for a jolly good reason!
  
  I am digressing.
  
  Fable 2 is a game that will most certainly give you a brilliant and unique 
 play experience. Although short, it does offer replay value and a lot of things to do post-story. 
 The combat is excellent and nicely redefined. Although customisation is lacking as far as armor 
 goes, weapons and your 2 alignment meters make every experience a unique experience. Try to play 
 this game exactly as you did the first time - I guarantee you can't! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Trajon21
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 5, 2008 8:58 am PT
Review:  This review seems kind've long, so I've broken it up into sections in case you don't want to read 
 the whole thing.
  
  The good: Fable 2 has a lot of cool new features that have been added since the first Fable. The 
 world looks completely different, there are new weapons, minigames, jobs, expressions, a dog, and 
 more. In Fable 2 they have also added a much needed Co-op feature.
  
  The bad: Short story that lacks depth, small issues with expressions, dog, map, and items. Did I 
 mention there is NO ARMOR available in this game?
  
  
  Story:
  
  You start out in this game much like the first Fable. You are just a kid during a sort of tutorial 
 time where you learn to play. Then a tragedy happens and the game skips years pretty quickly and 
 your changed into an adult where you begin the main story. One thing that is good in this game 
 is that it has references to things that happened in the old fable, and even a few characters from 
 it if you pay attention. The main story quests are in principal, very similar to the first Fable. 
 Except in Fable 2, you will finish the story in just a few days. After you beat the game, you will 
 surely be disapointed about how little was explained to you. Luckily there is plenty of side quests 
 to do still.
  
  Shops and Houses:
  A good feature about the game is the buying/selling of houses and shops. You can buy just about 
 every building in the game, if not every. Houses are priced according to many different things, 
 including the towns economy and whether or not someones living there already. So if you killed 
 the owner, and made the economy worse, naturally the price would go down. When you buy shops, there 
 are many available for you to buy and they range from regular stores in building, to roadside shops. 
 Once you buy these shops, you can set your prices above or below the regular value and this can 
 afffect the townspeoples opinions of you.
  
  
  Difficulty:
  
  If you're looking for a challenging game, then you should keep looking for another game, because 
 this is without doubt the easiest game I've ever played. There is pretty much no death penalty. 
 When you die, you lose some experiance and are knocked unconcious and then you wake up in the same 
 place with full health and keep fighting like nothing happened.
  
  Co-Op:
  The new co-op feature is a good addition to the game. It allows you to play through the game with 
 another person either on the same xbox, or xbox live. It also makes it easy to find other people 
 to play with on xbox live. So if you need help doing something then its no problem getting it. 
 (even though you wont need help) The co-op is a lot of fun. You can have one person using magic 
 or shooting, while the other is fighting hand to hand, or you can just both slash it up. Whatever 
 your playing style, co-op improves the combat in the game by a lot. There are however, still some 
 problems with the co-op. If you're playing on the same xbox, the second player can't interact with 
 any of the people or buy any weapons or items. They still recieve gold, but can't spend it while 
 they're a guest.
  
  Clothing:
  One of the main dissapointments to me in this game is that there is no armor whatsoever. Instead, 
 you can only buy regular clothes. There is a decent variety of clothes that you can buy, and some 
 outfits look decent. But for the most part, its disapointing.
  
  Jobs:
  It's very simple and easy to make money in Fable 2. You simply get a job. You can see in the menu 
 all of the different jobs that are available in the world and you can go and work at them. There 
 are a variety of different jobs to work, some examples are bartending, woodcutting, and blacksmithing. 
 These all consist of doing the same thing, stopping a bar in the green area of a slider. (much 
 like in golf games when you swing except easier) After making a certain amount of gold for a job, 
 your job skill level will increase, and you will make more money doing the job. 
  
  Small Issues:
  There are some small technical issues with the game. There are constant loading 
 screens when you go from one part of a town to the next. You have no map unless you open the start 
 menu, and you cant zoom. You do have a glowing trail that you follow to get to your destinations 
 which is very helpfull, however sometimes it disapears or can lead you in the wrong direction, 
 more oftenly this happens in Co-op. Some of the expressions also don't work like they should. For 
 example, getting people to follow you or leave you alone can be difficult. You don't have as much 
 control over your dog as you'd like. (cant choose where to throw ball, also the dog often doesn't 
 attack when he is supposed to)
  
  Most of this review has just listed problems with the game, but even with these issues, the game 
 is a lot of fun. Though the story is short, there are part of it that are still very entertaining 
 and the game can be funny in many ways too. The new co-op feature, the jobs, your dog, and more 
 have added some new excitement to the game. You also get a sense of attatchment to your relationships 
 in the game, like your wife if you have one, dog, and children (if you dont use a condom) . And 
 you find that you should cherish every moment, because you can lose almost everything. 
  
  I would recommend at least renting this game. It's worth your time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: valdarez
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 2, 2009 5:48 pm PT
Review:  The original Fable promised us the largest most complete RPG experience imaginable. Players would 
 create a hero and watch him age over time. The choices they take and the battles they endured would 
 carve the hero's features. Fable was an ultimate letdown resulting in only 6 to 8 hours of game 
 play for a single play through. Would Fable II address the wrongs of the original Fable and provide 
 a more complete experience?
  
  In a single word. No. 
  
  Wait. Not just no, but HECK no.
  
  Fable II fails in places that it's predecessor succeeded. 
 For one, the game is entirely bug ridden. From animations that get stuck including falling bodies, 
 disappearing dead enemies (left in a twitching loop) , frozen magic spell animations, and a HOST 
 of dialogue / storyline progression bugs. It makes you wonder how this game was even released to 
 the public in it's current state, especially with the dialog problems which force players to save 
 games, and then reload to 'fix', or rather 'get around' the bug.
  
  And load times. They aren't short. They are long, and completely unacceptable for a game of this 
 type on a current gen platform. Oblivion had a more rich landscape than Fable and it had wider 
 and more diverse areas with fewer load screens. You can literally traverse areas in under a minute 
 before a new load screen will pop up. Oh, and I did mention they take a while right?
  
  Another let down is the fact that player aging is completely gone in this game for all intents 
 and purposes. Their are now 'story archs' that progress the story 10 to 15 years at a time which 
 then age the player. Considering the first game had true player aging, the loss of it in the sequel 
 is a more than a minor let down.
  
  Gameplay is still good. It's the same solid game play (pretty easy) from the original Fable. Fighting, 
 shooting, and magic are all done fairly well, with only the occasional context issue. Enemies seemed 
 to get turned around a LOT allowing you to hit them from behind repeatedly, making for easy kills. 
 The difficult setting on this game is definitely of Lego origins.
  
  I'm still playing through Fable II, but I'm nearly done with the game, and all I can say is it's 
 yet another huge let down. Not only did it fail to deliver on the original promise of it's predecessor, 
 a wrong the developers claimed they were going right, but the lack of features from the original 
 and the sheer number of bugs makes Fable II just another Myth. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Da-Ruler
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 10, 2008 1:42 am PT
Review:  I think that this game was amazing kept me playing it for hours on end. The game play is amazing 
 the graphic's are very well done, The quest's faced can be tricky but are great to do. The map 
 is a wounder to wonder, there are many different places to go each having there own main enemy 
 to kill. You can buy house's, Shop's and stall's, to raise you empire. There are Ancient weapons 
 to gain buy completing certain task's. The boss's are reasonbably difficult but are easy to beat. 
 
  
  However there are some bad things to this game. Its easy to get knocked out, your wife "spouse" 
 leaves you for no reason, and there are somethings Gargoyle's and Silver Keys that are hard to 
 find if you don't look around. Money is way to easy to make on this game, all you have to do is 
 get a job and hit A at the correct moment and you earn money. People are easily scared buy you 
 if you wear the wrong type of clothing and the good and evil paths are not spectacularly different 
 to one and other. 
  
  There could be improvements on the gameplay as the character lack depths and the ending is obserd, 
 choicing between people who dies in the making of the spire' choosing your loved one's or being 
 extremly wealthy. But overall i give this game 9/10 and say to any good fan of RPG games to get 
 this game and give it a shot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IntricateDetail
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 4, 2008 10:04 pm PT
Review:  I was always excited from the moment I heard that Fable was going to have a sequel with the original 
 being such an innovative, albeit somewhat lacking, testament to games. Fable 2 continues with that 
 same testament, bringing a number of new elements into the series, refining some of the old ones 
 and leaving a few untouched and unchanged.
  
  Fable 2 delivers on bringing a longer storyline, a great good/evil system and everyone's favorite 
 lovable companion. All the depth of the original is there, you can buy homes, shops and the like, 
 change your looks and appearance, save lives or destroy them and complete any number of quests. 
 Although the storyline is still a bit short by normal standards for other games, it delivers and 
 is hardly lacking in any particular way. The changes in control scheme and general view of playing 
 the game all make the game itself more enjoyable.
  
  Now on to the letdowns. The melding of the three different skill trees makes characters feel less 
 diverse and more standardized. Going from good to evil, fat to thin or the like is incredibly easy 
 and can easily be reversed in a matter of minutes. At moments, the storyline can be tedious and 
 the ending is very anti-climactic, sorry if you haven't gotten there yet.
  
  Overall, the game really brings a number of things to the table but fails to really do anything 
 with some of them. I recommend the game to everyone who likes RPGs and the like. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lawrencevanrijn
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 4, 2008 9:50 pm PT
Review:  There is a lot going through my mind while i write this. I finished the game. got thropugh it, 
 and i will get through it again. 
  The first part is that this game is set around a wonderful told tale. Better then the previous 
 game, this game is a challenge and a great story to get through. I could try and persuade you one 
 way or the other, but it is about the story, which needs to be played. Graphically it is an excellent 
 achievement. Smooth, beautiful to behold and filled with all manner of creature, friends and foes 
 to keep you busy for a decent time.
  The game does have a few flaws (AI wise) which does dampen the spirit a little, but not to the 
 effect of influencing the story and the main line. Which is what it is about. That part is over 
 just a little too quickly, however the game is filled with extra things to do, and it is all graphically 
 and musically filled, so you feel like you are getting a good deal here, and you are getting a 
 good game here. 
  Just the little quirks that could have made this the perfect game (a few more locations and missions 
 wouldn't have hurt either) .
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jasonbourne415
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 4, 2008 7:13 pm PT
Review:  The main story line is insanely cool combat is sweet and the switch between magic guns and melee 
 is smooth. Making money is also to easy. All one has to do is buy and rent property to make money. 
 The end of the story kind of sucks, and the gamer will be left with a feeling of emptyness assuming 
 the gamer got into the game. A downfall of the game is that once the main story is over the game 
 almost becomes pointless. Another flaw being that there is a deformation in characters who chose 
 the path of magic. They will get blue scars. The game can be played through twice for two totally 
 different story modes  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: silverkhalsa1
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 4, 2008 4:35 pm PT
Review:  Well, first impressions of this game was great, its well designed, and had me sinking into the 
 game early on.
  You can tell a lot of detail has been put in to this game, and just walking around the scenery 
 in the lands of Albion is beautiful to look at ! 
  
  There is a lot to do, loads of side quests and missions in the game, but sadly, its nothing which 
 is going to give you a lot of hours of game play, which you would expect from an rpg ! 
  I had finished the main story and a lot of the side quests and completed the game easily under 
 10 hours ! And even quicker when i played it again, but playing as a evil character this time ! 
 
  
  Fair enough, i didn't do the tedious things like collect every single key, or find kill all 50 
 gargoyles through out the land, but there was no motivation to do this anyway, as i was powerful 
 with the best weapons in the game really early on, and didn't seem to need anything else ! 
  
  There was no way enough weapons, clothes etc in this game, which again you would expect from 
 an rpg, and it was too easy to make money. It was also to easy to make your self really powerful 
 early on making the difficulty of the game really really easy ! I played this game twice over, 
 without getting killed once, or no where near ! The boss fights were simple, and a lot of the story 
 was absolutely the same as the original fable !
  
  With these cons aside, and i really have focused on a lot of the bad, there are still a lot of 
 good elements kept in the game from the original, and a few new ideas which i wont go into and 
 spoil ! 
  This game is still defiantly worth playing, especially for fable fans, but don't expect a deep 
 rpg like the original, as this game is way too short, and not a rpg which you would invest any 
 time in ! More of a pick up and play !
  
  
  MUSIC : 8
  STORY : 6
  CHARACTERS : 7
  GRAPHICS : 9
  GAME PLAY : 8
  OVERALL : 7.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: intoblivion
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 4, 2008 1:19 pm PT
Review:  Fable was a clever Action Rpg for the Xbox back in 2004 that took the basic Rpg and Action elements 
 and added emotion and choice into the genre. With two core sides, good or evil that can be dertimined 
 by wether you help the poor begger or even go the extreme of killing him Fable 2 wants to make 
 the player chose the way they want to play the game. But this happens to be on of Fable 2's downfalls, 
 even with the clever choice system you still feel like your tied to either good or evil. This can 
 be best described in a early quest where you meet a slave trader, you can kill the slave trader 
 and release the slaves or take his bribe and leave him alone. Now why wasn't the option to kill 
 the slave trader, take the money from his corpse and then free the slaves included? It would make 
 the game feel more like a tree of choice paths rarther than a simple branch. In a attempt to not 
 be associtated with the Elders Scrolls Series the story isn't that deep and theres not individual 
 levels in certain asspects of magic etc etc. Fable 2 offers a range of weapons, but no so many 
 your searching the internet for websites that tell you which guns work with which swords. Overall 
 Fable 2 is a solid and intresting game and apart from the occasianal long loading time it offers 
 a ethralling adventure that will keep you hooked. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chadsk8r24
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 4, 2008 1:16 pm PT
Review:  This game is amazing. I beat the main story and I'm still having fun doing side quests and getting 
 gargoyles finding hidden treasure and everything. I can't stop playing it. there isnt any downside. 
 Will win game of the year i can see. it's amazing. i love how there is so much to do. like buy 
 houses, stores kill millions play dead, just about anything even have sex with up to 5 people. 
 have babies. weather changes from summer to fall. and towns evolve depending on wealth like mine 
 now has more buildings and is bigger. it has everything in this game.
  the demon doors have cool stuff in them. when you beat the game you can buy more stuff and find 
 more stuff like legendary weapons and stuff and secret spots and secret treasures and keys.
  i dont know anyone who would not like this game. it is great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FallenAngelXBL
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 4, 2008 1:14 pm PT
Review:  Hey
  
  So, many a year ago i bought my Xbox and with it came Fable Lost Chapters. I had never heard of 
 Fable so i was not disapointed when i played it unlike the hundreds who were anxious to see all 
 the false promises, i loved the game despite its flaws, i loved it for what it was. But the question 
 is, does Fable 2 deliver the same great experience as its forefather? 
  
  GRAPHICS
  One of the great things about Fable TLC was its style. Fable 2 continues that same style but put 
 it in HD-O-vision and it does, for the most part look good. The character models (although limited 
 in variety) all look great with detailed clothing and smooth animation. The Environments also look 
 great with full day and night cycles topped off with some awesome lighting effects that really 
 show off the engine. Furthermore magic looks good with some great particle effects and well implemented 
 physics and good slow motion effects to add some drama to conflicts. Its not all good however, 
 you have HUGE loading times and there are often slowdowns and pop-ins to contend with which make 
 you feel like your not apart of Albion which sort of drains the feel of an RPG experience out of 
 Fable 2. As mentioned earlier there are just to few character models. Sure your character can be 
 customized to high heaven but you often see 5 or 6 of the same person walking and talking to each 
 other. On top of this you also have a very limited enemy list, you Bandits, Hobbes, Trolls, undead, 
 banshees and Bugs. In a game so open, its a shame that you encounter the same bunch of bandits 
 every time they appear or fighting a near endless supply of Undead who all look identical. 
  
  SOUND
  Fable 2, in short has a GREAT soundtrack ranging from action music to funny bard tales 
 told in cheery songs to your typical fantasy tunes. It gives fable that Fable feel that you cant 
 explain. Whenever i hear music like this i just think of fable, and a lot of people i know have 
 the same experience. Truly a masterfully composed sound design. Bored of your Generic gun holding 
 American voiced games? I sure am, well fable 2, like its predecessor is fully voiced using genuine 
 British voice acting. For me it makes the game feel more at home, to others it will be a welcome 
 if a bit jarring change. You experience the many accents of Britain and its just funny to hear 
 the bandits speak with a Liverpool accent. Sound is more impressive than the graphics in my opinion 
 and just add a whole different layer of depth to the game that makes it a great game.
  
  GAMELAY
  So you start off as a young boy or girl and you start your epic adventure to save the 
 world from a evil tyrant who is planning on destroying the world by bringing back some old kingdom 
 tech. I dont want to go into much more depth because quite frankly, the story has no depth. Its 
 generic and bland as any half baked RPG story. Luckly Fable isnt all about Main Plot and it is 
 totally filled with side missions that can keep you amused for hours after the game ends. Some 
 quests even change the world in later stages changing a prosperous village into a deserted ghost 
 town or turning a bandit filled village into a sprawling metropolis Fable 2 makes you feel like 
 your having a major impact on the world and makes completing the game a few times a joy. However 
 completing the game will only take you about 15 hours with all the side quests so you may feel 
 inclined not to roll another character. After your 1st play through you may start to tell that 
 these multi choice quests dont really make that much of a difference and you are left feeling even 
 more disappointed by the overall lack of gaming content. Other things apart from side quests is 
 the Job system and the Ecconomy system which allows the player to become a Master Blacksmith, Woodcutter, 
 Drink Sever, Assassin, Bounty Hunter or Slave Trader. The Former 3 are repetitive minigames that 
 will quickly get on your nerves and the latter 3 are merely REALLY short side quests that also 
 get boring very quickly. The ecconomy system is not very deep, but interesting. You buy a house 
 and alter the rent from 100% more or 100% less upkeep which will make you more popular or more 
 hated. Having stupidly priced houses and shops makes everything cheaper thus making it harder to 
 get money, but easier to buy things. Having things cheaper may actually give your more money but 
 everything costs more... its a strange and slightly confusing system but if you want to really try 
 your hand at it, be my guest as this is the only way to make big money fast. 
  
  OVERALL
  Despite the negative points, Fable is great fun to play but don't expect to be playing for more 
 that a few days. Its a great ride whilst it lasts but once you take a step back you begin to see 
 all the flaws this game is riddled with. I apologies for not playing multiplayer, but i assume 
 its not very good from other reviews. #
  
  CLOSING COMMENTS 
  A great buy for the Xbox 360, but dont expect anything revolutionary. If your in the mood for a 
 great Action RPG Fable could be for you. If not check out my Fallout 3 Review. Hell buy them both 
 :D 
  
  8.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: klmillis
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 4, 2008 10:58 am PT
Review:  Fable II is a great game. If you haven't experienced the franchise yet, Fable 2 gets everything 
 nearly right. One thing to remember when you hear about reviews, is that this game could never 
 live up to the hype. Peter M. tried to bite his tongue, but could quite keep the near-empty promises 
 from spilling out.
  
  I won't delve into every let down, but will punctuate it with this comment: We were promised that 
 we could go almost anywhere, that the world was an open one. The reality is that when contrasted 
 with Fable I, Fable II is far more open, but still feels very linear. When you contrast Fable II 
 with other open-world games currently out there (Crysis, WOW, Fallout III, Oblivion, Farcry II, 
 etc.) you still feel like you're a mouse running through a maze. Obviously the expectations that 
 I had were way off-base, though reasonable considering the scope of other games out there.
  
  Take that let-down and apply it to every feature you are promised. The games does much better 
 than its predecessor, but come up short of every expectation you may have.
  
  That being said, I cannot think of an RPG that I enjoyed playing as much as Fable II. One reason 
 for that, and one promise Fable II did deliver on, is that I felt immersed. The dog truly became 
 my in-game best friend. Peter did get me to love that beast. I cannot deny that Fable II was fantastic 
 to play albeit so very short.
  
  Buy it, play it, love it, hate it. It is worth the experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Unchainedterror
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 4, 2008 10:29 am PT
Review:  Fable. The simple name brings up the thought of albion, jack of blades, and one other thing, failed 
 promises. Fable 1 one was a game of these undelivered promises, but I can tell you, fable 2 is 
 not. Your character , male or female this time, is a child living on the streets of the new bowerstone, 
 a town of extreme scale, and the story tells the tale of your hero's [ or of course, villian's] 
 rise to fame and renown. While the story is not ground breaking by any means, it is at times really 
 well written, however you never grow too attached to any of the characters , except one, your dog. 
 The dog pretty much serves as a radar would in any other game, he'll sniff out treasure for you, 
 kill bad guys you've knocked over, join in on your expressions and just be awesome in general. They'll 
 be some tough moral decisions at the end that'll decide how the rest of your game is and it all 
 comes together quite nicely.
  
  Combat is of course, one of the main components of any RPG and fable does it in one of the better 
 ways I've seen, its called the one button system, rather than have to go into your inventory and 
 such to select a ranged, spell, or melee weapon each one can be used with a push of a button. Y 
 brings out and fires your ranged weapon, X is your melee, and B is for spells, it sounds simplistic, 
 but that's because it is and it really makes the combat very fast paced and enjoyable.
  Flourishes are a must have for combat because they are extremely powerful and allow you to see 
 a sweet slow motion view sometimes.
  
  Purchasing property is a surprisingly emphasized feature and gives you money every 5 minutes, whether 
 your playing or not! All in all Fable is a great game although it does have bugs, A few minor graphical 
 and AI glitches are present but are not game breaking by any means. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xCrysis
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 4, 2008 10:12 am PT
Review:  So I'm sure many have played Fable I, and loved it. This game is a very successful sequel to that 
 amazing game. This game isn't perfect, but after noticing everything this game has to offer, the 
 flaws aren't very noticeable. Some of the small flaws are: in game lag, and menu lag. This isn't 
 too common, and can easily be fixed by clearing the cache on your 360. Some of the major ones include: 
 Game freezing, and some major characters (Such as your wife/husband) disappear. 
  
  Setting all of those aside, you can see what the World of Fable II can offer. 
  
  First off, 
 you'll notice the graphics. The graphics for this game, are quite astonishing. They are lush, and 
 vivid; and make any scenery in the World look absolutely amazing. 
  
  The game play isn't anything special, but it works. Basically, you smash X to use your melee weapon 
 (Such as sword, mace, hammer, etc.) Or you can hold it down, to do flourishes. If you combine those 
 two steps, you can end up with some pretty cool combos. To use long range weapons (Rifles, pistols, 
 bows) You can just simply tap Y. Holding Y will result in zooming in with your ranged weapon, if 
 you have that skill upgraded. Pressing the B button will allow you to casts spells. Holding B down 
 will allow you to charge a certain spell, or change to another one, depending on your spell layout. 
 
  
  You can upgrade anything from body physique, to skill, to will. To do this, you will have to wisely 
 spend experience you have gathered from killing enemies. 
  
  The story isn't anything special. It's just a simple tale of revenge. The plot in this one and 
 the plot in Fable I are very similar. Most of the quests just feel straight out of Fable I. Basically, 
 you yourself is a Hero. This time around, you have to find the other three heroes (Skill, Strength, 
 and Will) to take down Lucien, who is using an evil spire as a conduit of power, to rule the world. 
 
  
  The choices and consequences in this game are pretty amazing this time around, as well. At the 
 beginning, you have five choices to make. Make them wisely, and the town you are in will be completely 
 different when you are a adult. Make the nice choices and "Old Town" Bowerstone will be a nice, 
 peaceful place to live. Make the evil choices, and "Old Town" will be run down, with shady people 
 everyone, and even prostitutes. Those are just some examples.
  
  Fable II is an amazing RPG experience and will keep you busy for hours on end. Other than the main 
 quest, there is so many different things to do. I for one, raised a family and had a kid. This 
 game is guaranteed to keep you busy, and give you something fun to do in the town of Albion. Any 
 fan of the first one will love this sequel. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Adoxx
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 4, 2008 9:09 am PT
Review:  As the game begins, it starts out quite like Fable due to the fact you start the game out as a 
 child. You start out, however, instead of knowing your entire family you are living on the street 
 with just your sister. The game then takes a slightly different turn than the original by instead 
 of going on a sort of rampage throughout Albion trying to find your sister, it is based on a sort 
 of vengeance or revenge, depending on the path you take. Some see it more as revenge if you decide 
 to take your character down the evil path since you basically take no mercy on anything or anyone 
 you come across. Your main goal in the game is to go about Albion recruiting several heroes that 
 will help you on your conquest through the story. The story comes to be one of the more weaker 
 aspects in the game, aside from the amount of glitches the game has come to have. In the original, 
 the complaint of the game had seemed to be that the story was not long enough, and it seems as 
 though Peter Molyneux wanted so bad to fix that, he did not put as much effort into making the 
 story any more intricate than it needed to be. The main quest line in the game seemed to be lacking, 
 although it may have been extended to anywhere around 6-8 hours to complete, that did not quite 
 help it enough. Throughout the game, however, there are many side quests that you are able to accept 
 from villagers, travelers, guards, and even several from the heroes themselves, that seem to make 
 the game a little more worth while in playing. After completing all of that and being said and 
 done, the game should have taken you anywhere from 12-20 hours to complete depending on if you 
 use anything to help you along your way, or possibly just have some fun in the towns and decorating 
 your character.
  
  One of the most exciting aspects in the game is being able to control the morality of your character. 
 While going through the game you are offered quests from anyone from lonely villagers to evil bandits 
 wanting to rob a simple farm. Through these quests, you are able to make decisions that will lead 
 your character either to becoming a man with a halo above his head, whom everyone seems to admire, 
 or possibly someone who sprouts horns and strikes fear into the hearts of everyone as you walk 
 through the town. It is quite nice going through the game and having each and every decision you 
 make effect what physical features appear on your hero. Some people even might make the decision 
 to stay neutral in their journey and not have so many features appear on their character. You are 
 also able to in many towns, and through some travelers, adjust what your hair looks like with both 
 style and color, as well as having tattoos and make-up on your character. Any way that you go, 
 you will find it hard to find any two characters come out to look the same.
  
  Something new that Lionhead Studios brought to Fable 2 was the fighting style of the game. The 
 basic melee battle style seems to not have drifted too far from the original style in Fable, except 
 for a few new upgrades that you obtain through some of the strength skills. However, once you reach 
 into the skill tree, which controls your ranged attacks, you come across a few new options, such 
 as sub-targeting. Sub-targeting allows you to if you have time, to aim at certain body parts of 
 you enemies which allows you to shoot the weapons out of their hands, and with some enemies even 
 shoot the heads off of them, which makes them run around like a chicken with it's head cut off! 
 They also completely adjusted the way will users will attack their enemies in this game. Instead 
 of just targeting a single enemy no matter what, you have the option of either attacking a single 
 enemy or having an area of attack spell. Another new feature added, is that with spells, there 
 are different levels of each spell that you must charge in order to use, which in turn makes the 
 spell stronger with each level charged. You must be careful though, because as you are charging 
 you are open to being attacked by any nearby enemies, which can quickly drain your health, and 
 even lead to death!
  
  One nice aspect of the game that I, myself much enjoyed in the beginning of the game was they gave 
 you a companion that followed along side of you throughout the entire game. I found it kind of 
 interesting have a dog that followed along side of you, helping in both fighting off enemies and 
 finding you some nice treasures. Although your dog does not seem to be a huge help when fighting, 
 I believe he was input in to the game more along lines of a treasure finder than anything. He does 
 not just help you find buried treasure, but if you happen to miss a treasure chest he will bark 
 immediately letting you know, which is nice considering some of the treasure you are able to find 
 in the game. Another little fun added feature to the game with your companion is that he along 
 with you, have expressions that he is able to learn. He can do anything from playing dead to doing 
 a fun bunny hop! So make sure to take care of your dog, as he is definitely someone you want around 
 at all times.
  
  Aside from the main and side quests of the game, there are lots of little extras in the game that 
 make it fun to play even after you have completed the quests, or even before if you want to take 
 a break from the story. In each area of the game, there are silver keys and gargoyles that are 
 hidden on buildings, behind trees, and even a few buried in places. The silver keys are used to 
 open some of the chests that are hidden around Albion that have richer rewards than the regular 
 chests you find. The gargoyles, however, are little pesky statues hidden around Albion that will 
 taunt you if you get close enough to them. If you have the know how and the patience though to 
 track them down and shoot them, you can get some very nice rewards in a secret trove. However, 
 if you are not one to want to hunt these down in the game, you can have lots of fun in the towns 
 of Albion. You are able to buy every building in the game, and you can either rent them out or 
 keep them for yourselves to live in. You also have the option to redecorate the houses by purchasing 
 furniture from stores in both Bowerstone and Bloodstone. Then if you are looking to make even more 
 gold than what you have you can pick up some of the jobs that around Albion. You can do anything 
 from chop wood in Oakfield, to blacksmithing in Bowerstone, or even head on over to Westcliffe 
 and bartend for the local bar. No matter what you find entertaining, you are sure to find something 
 to do around Albion if you are wanting a good break from killing monsters and bandits.
  
  The last added thing of the game that many people either come to enjoy very much, or come to despise 
 is the cooperative play online. The cooperative play allows you to go through the game with a henchman, 
 who is played by a friend who decides to join your game. You are not able to play as your hero 
 in another player's game, but you do keep all of your will abilities and if wanted, you are able 
 to share all the gold and experience you come across while playing. One of the downsides, however, 
 of the cooperative play is that even playing online, you have to share the same screen with whoever 
 it is you are playing with. It is not like Halo 3 where you just have someone playing with you 
 in the game, or playing split screen on the same screen, but instead the henchman must follow the 
 hero as it is like you are playing on the same screen in the same house. Although it might make 
 the game a tad bit easier having a second player, it seems that cooperative play was a let down 
 for the Fable 2 experience. However, if you purchased the Limited Edition copy of the game, you 
 do have some extra content that you are only able to go in to and play through in cooperative play 
 online.
  
  Now something, a lot of people tend to look at when playing a game on the Xbox 360 is the Achievements 
 the game has to offer. Now Fable 2 does not truly have any difficult achievements like Gears of 
 War had, but it does have some fun ones that you are able to complete. The achievements range anywhere 
 from having to take a villager on the perfect date, to playing some pub games, to even having to 
 hunt down those pesky gargoyles in the game! However, if you are one of the many gamers trying 
 to achieve that perfect gamerscore, you are going to have to play a few of the games and watch 
 a couple slideshows on Fable2. com, as it is required to obtain a few items need to get several 
 achievements. However, you also are going to have to purchase Fable 2 Pub Games to gain an several 
 more items that you will be needing. Though, if you have a nice friend who has already purchased 
 Pub Games, perhaps you could convince him to win you those items! So although Fable 2 might not 
 have the most difficult Achievements, it sure does have some interesting ones that you have to 
 think about in order to achieve.
  
  So although Fable 2 may not have lived up to all the hype of what the game was suppose to be, and 
 how it was suppose to redeem the let down of Fable, it is still a game worth playing. The story 
 line may not have been as strong as it could have been, there were still many aspects to the game 
 that makes it a good game that no one should pass up. If you have never played Fable, I do not 
 recommend buying this game, but if possible go out and rent the game or maybe borrow it from a 
 friend who did purchase it. Just beware though, if you do start playing this game, you might just 
 have a difficult time getting yourself to stop playing as it can become very addicting. Through 
 all of the dungeons, scenery, and the wonderful people around you, there is no better game to get 
 addicted to. As it may not offer everything you want in a game, it sure offers more than its necessary 
 share to be called a great game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xNiT3M4REx
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 4, 2008 8:26 am PT
Review:  Fable II - the revolution of the RPG genre. Sounds like a long shot, but its true. Peter and the 
 guys at Lionhead promised us a great game, but they gave us an amazing game.
  
  -GAMEPLAY-
  After never playing the first Fable, I came into Fable II not knowing anything about 
 it. The controls are extremely easy to learn and in no time at all, you'll be killing the badies 
 of Albion in no time. The social aspect of Fable, where you can interact with everyone also has 
 good gameplay. Every little action you do will make the citizens think more highly of you, or will 
 make them mad. It was a great feature. Also, the jobs you can get really improved my thoughts on 
 this game. It was cool at how much inovation went into the game. This is definatly a game that 
 is worth playing through many times, just to see which actions make the most consequences. 
  
  -STORY-
  The story was very well made. After your sister is killed by Lord Lucion, you fow 
 revenge for her death. Along the way, the story represents itself through cutscenes, dialouge, 
 and by items you pick up. The story does a good job at building up to the exciting climax and finale. 
 It is an extremely fun story.
  
  -VOICE ACTING/SOUND-
  The voice acting is brilient. It really brings a whole new aspect to the game. The sounds are great 
 too. The weapons have distict sounds, the sound of birds are heard all over the place, and little 
 things like water flowing makes sounds too. Another thing I liked was how the music adapts to the 
 mood and setting of the game. If you enter a sunny, peaceful place, the music is sweet and happy. 
 If you enter a dark cave or a dark, sinister place, the music is evil and wicked. Those little 
 things are great.
  
  -EXTRA THINGS-
  The use of the dog as your companion is a great add on. You have someone by you to help you find 
 tresure and other things. The dog is a character all its own. Some of the other things I liked 
 was the ability to buy a house, find a wife/husband, and have children. This made the game more 
 lifelike and sound the RPG side to things.
  
  -ONLINE-
  The ability to go into other people's games and see how their world is is a great feature. Jusyt 
 a few clicks and boom, your in their world. This is a great add-on that I absolutly love.
  
  -FINAL REMARKS-
  Fable II was a game I was extremely excited about ever scince E3 08, when 
 I first HEARD about it. It looked amazing and aftr playing lal the way through it, it was an amazing 
 experience. If you havnt got this game, you should get it. Any player will love to just pick up 
 the controller and just play away.
  
  FINAL SCORE: 10/10
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ReeceBarnard
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 4, 2008 7:09 am PT
Review:  If you are expecting the Depth and Scope of games like Mass Effect, Oblivion, the Fallout series 
 or Baldurs Gate, Look elsewhere. Fable 2 is geared more towards a pick up and play philosophy.
 
  
  Fans of Japanese RPGs like Final Fantasy, Suikoden and Persona ect ... will also feel a little 
 let down as it misses the mark on the emotional front aswell, and that brings me to the main point.
 
  
  "Love"
  
  Peter Molyneux went to great pains to describe the bond you would have with your family and dog. 
 The problem is you just never feel it. The characters are all very 2 dimensional and after your 
 Husband or Wife repeats the same annoying phrases for the 100th time and you finally lose it and 
 lob a Fireball at him or her you finally realize, ... it doesn't matter, nothing really matters 
 in Fable, Good or Evil, theres no real consiquince to your actions execpt for the purely aesthetic 
 appearance of your character and world.
  You can't help but feel that slight changes to the story and better direction in the cut scenes 
 could've made for a more dramatic and heart wrenching ending, and would have made the choices you 
 made carry alot more weight, ... as it stands you just don't care enough.
  
  That being said I'am problery being a bit harsh by only rating it 6,5. The Fight controls and Graphics 
 are great and Lionhead should be commended for it's innovations in gameplay and in creating something 
 truely unique but from a Harcore RPG gamer stand point I can't help but feel that so many opportunities 
 where missed to make this game a true classic.
  
  All in all the game still feels very incomplete, if Fable 2 ever makes the jump to the PC version 
 it will need a major overhaul, ... Fable 2 the Lost Chapters anyone ?? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FatalShot84
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 4, 2008 4:54 am PT
Review:  Fable 2 is without a doubt a very good game. Even though the coop wasn't very good in my opinion 
 the game is so much fun in single player I didn't even care. 
  
  Unlike the first Fable where it was better to max out a talent tree than to use everything in this 
 Fable it's a lot better to use a combination of melee, ranged, and magic attacks. If you really 
 want to you can max all 3 out. When using all 3 this is when you really own stuff. Not to mention 
 the fights look so cool.
  
  There is so many achievements to complete and this game has so much more to offer than just combat 
 and story line. I find myself doing hours of the side quest, jobs, buying houses and shops, and 
 if you went evil like me then you probably spend a lot of time just being plain naughty. 
  
  This game has a very high replay value and I'm sure I'll beat it several times as I did with 
 the first one.
  With the way they have the talents setup up and what not you can pretty much make a different class 
 each time through the game. For example If you want to make a ranger. Then focus more in melee 
 and ranged combat. Maybe this time around you want to go good instead of evil. 
  
  Most importantly this game really does make you feel like a part of your hero. I find myself sticking 
 to the role of the way I want my character to be in the beginning of the game and sticking to that 
 all the way to the end of the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamer_JoNNo
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 4, 2008 1:59 am PT
Review:  Right, lets kick this off by getting it clear that this is typical Lionhead Studios fare. Alot 
 of big big promises, innovative ideas, but does it deliver?
  
  Well, as is typical of Lionhead... the answer is sort of.
  
  +The Good+
  
  +Beautiful Gameworld 
 - graphically
  +Combat, though simple, is fairly enjoyable for a while
  +A unique fantasy world
  +Good sense of Humour, doesnt take itself seriously
  
  -The Bad-
 
  
  -Although beautiful, the gameworld is extremely small and you may feel that your imagination is 
 confined by this. I don't agree that RPG gameworlds should be as expansive as fallout 3 or Oblivion, 
 (for me, these dilute enjoyment and are often not as consistently developed) , but it really is 
 tiny and as a result there is no real context to place your hero in.
  
  -Story is weak, predictable and short.
  -Expression system whilst novel, is tedious and contributes 
 little to 21st century gameplay.
  -The lack of seriousness may alienate you from this role playing experience, and make you feel 
 as though you should be playing hello kitty island adventure 3.
  
  -Only a few enemy types. Of which the most satisfying combatant was the balverine, character design 
 was dark and vicious, and i think if the whole game was a bit more adult it would be one hell of 
 a rpg, but thats NOT the premise of fable 2 i suppose.
  
  -Graphics have charm, but are childlike.
  - Good / evil choice not that important
  - All good, 
 all evil characters, more or less are the same.
  - Lack of weapons, items.
  
  CONCLUSION
  
  Despite its shortcomings, fable 2 retains the charm of its predecessor, and chances 
 are if you liked that one, you will take this to heart too.
  
  However, if you are looking for something profoundly different, which expands upon fable 1 in terms 
 of gameplay and player choice, turn away my friend.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mynameisderek85
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 3, 2008 9:39 pm PT
Review:  Let me ask you something. How can you possibly make a game with such potential and such anticipation 
 disappoint gamers not once, but twice? 
  
  The game may not be as amazing as it makes itself out to be, but the most disappointing let down 
 was the ending. Yes, it might be one of the most disappointing endings in gaming history. 
  
  The beginning of the game is absolutely breath-taking, as you'd expect from a game like Fable. 
 You begin the game as a young boy exploring the town with his sister, earning money to buy a magical 
 music box. When you achieve buying the music box, you're taken to a castle where your sister is 
 killed. From there, you will avenge your sisters death, even though she's barely mentioned in the 
 story. In fact, you may even find yourself forgetting about her entirely until the end. 
  
  You have a dog following you around throughout your whole adventure. The dog is hardly useful if 
 not an annoyance. He'll find a few treasures for you, but that's about it. 
  
  You'll run around chopping some enemys up with your sword. You're given a gun too, but the sword 
 seems to do a better job of eliminating those pesky creatures. The gun rarely comes in handy.
 
  
  You reach the ending soon enough and well, the ending is extremely disappointing. I'm not going 
 to give away too much, but the final boss is extremely easy to beat and the ending is hardly rewarding. 
 Let's just say that you're given three choices and the whole good/evil thing doesn't play into 
 effect at all. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: NinjaJesus232
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 3, 2008 8:33 pm PT
Review:  Gaming is entertainment, a form of escape from the daily grind of the real world. Sometimes when 
 we play, we imagine we are the dashing hero, embarking on a quest to save the land from some dastardly 
 evil force with a hidden agenda. Our imagination, though, is limited to the rules the game set 
 in place. You can't destroy that building, confined to buying and selling what the game deems, 
 and set on a straight line path to the end of the game with a small amount of distractions along 
 the way. In the end, you are nothing more than a pawn in the destiny the game set forth for you.
 
  
  Games like Knights of the Old Republic and Mass Effect have a system of choosing how to play your 
 character, but this rigid style still leads you in the same straight line that splits only at the 
 very end, you do not see the true consequences of your actions till you watch a few minutes of 
 a cutscene. The "Good vs. Evil" paradigm was heavily depending on scripted events at precise points 
 in the game to push you in one path or another, with a middle ground being almost a punishment 
 to the gamer, missing out on a "true" ending.
  
  What if the rules disappear, our every action having the ability to change the fate of a single 
 person, a bustling frontier village, or even a kingdom? What would happen if your every decision 
 shaped who you are as a hero at the moment it happens? What would happen if we can truly be the 
 hero?
  
  The world has changed since the days when The Hero of Albion clashed with Jack of Blades. Heroes 
 no longer wander the land, the Guild they called home stricken from the pages of history, their 
 deeds forgotten. A small homeless child known only as Sparrow joins his sister Rose as they look 
 upon a massive castle, wishing their lives were better. A chance encounter with a mysterious woman, 
 and a relic from the past, pushes little Sparrow destiny into motion.
  
  Fable 2, Lionhead Studios' and Peter Molyneux's sequel to the critically acclaimed Xbox Original 
 title, throws the player into the role of the hero of the story. The player chooses whether Sparrow 
 is a boy or girl at the start of the game, but the choice does not change the how the story plays 
 out. The emphasis on the game is the choices that we make, and how they affect ourselves, and our 
 surroundings. When you begin to take control of your character, you will play a sequence that hearkens 
 back to the early moments of the first Fable. Sparrow and Rose need to collect five gold pieces 
 to purchase a special item, to do that they need to complete some tasks.
  
  In the original Fable, how you completed the tasks had no real bearing on the game, other than 
 a slight adjustment to your morality, this is not the same in Fable 2. How you choose to complete 
 these tasks have a bearing on the town around you, in a way that will not be seen immediately. 
 The game moves you along these introduction quests by introducing the different mechanics of the 
 game, the most prominent a glowing line on the ground that leads you to your next objective. This 
 visual marker is your navigator in the world of Albion, always pointing you in the right direction 
 of where your next objective is, be it the main story or the optional tasks. When you finish collecting 
 your coins, Sparrow is thrown into a chain of events that introduces the game's antagonist, and 
 a strange ally.
  
  The most noticeable difference that players will notice when they strike out on their own is the 
 change of scope in the game world. The first Fable featured different areas with preset paths to 
 navigate; exploration was much toned down to the point where the hidden area was nothing more than 
 a dirt path with some weeds covering the ground. In Fable 2, the first steps of your exploration, 
 Bower Lake, is a huge open land that surrounds a pristine lake. Grasslands roll into the hillside, 
 cut by the various paths that lead you to different villages in the kingdom. Every corner of the 
 land can be explored, and treasures are to be found. Cities and villages are full of life, people 
 going about their daily tasks and interacting with each other. The outskirts of the villages are 
 full of winding paths and hidden trinkets to find, never far from a bandit ambush while traveling 
 merchants ply their trades on the dirt paths. Only Grand Theft Auto IV has touched this level of 
 a living, breathing world full of people with purpose, and it might have very well been exceeded 
 by this game.
  
  Fable 2 plays similar its predecessor. The left stick moves your character around, while holding 
 A while moving gives you a burst of speed. Trying to control a running Sparrow can get tricky sometimes 
 when you try to navigate corners, but the movement is solid nonetheless. Swimming works the same 
 way, only in water. You can switch to a first person perspective using the Left Bumper, and the 
 game also has a cinematic view that can be used by pulling the Left Trigger when prompted, this 
 comes up when you are needed to focus your attention on a specific person, or objective. The A 
 button can also be used in several context sensitive situations, ranging from diving off of a cliff 
 into a lake, to climbing up ladders. If the game thinks you can jump over something, the A button 
 will come up. This leaves exploring the land much easier, as now you can jump over fences and climb 
 smaller hillsides, instead of running in circles looking for a pathway.
  
  Combat has seen a little overhaul, simplifying the execution, but expanding on the design. Your 
 character has the ability to use melee, ranged, and magic based attacks on his enemies, or stubborn 
 roosters. Combat is much smoother experience with the three attacks attached to a specific button; 
 X for melee, Y for ranges, and B for magic. You can seamlessly switch through the three styles 
 by simply pressing the button, there is no swapping of weapons or spells in the middle of a battle. 
 At the start of the game, combat is executed by simple button mashing, but that starts to change 
 as you start to acquire skills to bolster your skills. These skills are purchased with orbs that 
 fall off of defeated villains, and are used to add more punch to your melee swing, increase heath 
 points, make your character move faster, or increase the potency of magic attacks. As your skills 
 increase, what you can do in combat does as well, enabling you to create a complex attack style 
 unique to you. Use Force Push to blow back you attackers, finishing them off with a fireball. Raise 
 scores of undead followers, dropping back to shoot the baddies with your gun. Or, play the game 
 like a button mashing beat em up, however you want to fight, you can.
  
  To help you with your path of revenge, you are joined along by a little pooch friend, with whom 
 you can name as you wish. You first meet the little guy during your childhood days, while you are 
 on quest for gold coins. He follows you along wherever you go, and plays a major part in your exploration. 
 Your dog is able to sniff out treasure, leading you to its location. He will also fight for you, 
 attacking any attacker you knock to the ground automatically. And, he will also be there for companionship. 
 Bored in Bowerstone? Play a round of fetch in the streets with a rubber ball, or have him do tricks 
 for the crowd. No matter what, he is your loyal friend to the end.
  
  The core of the game is about the choices we make, and how it shapes us and those around us. The 
 depth that is experienced in Fable 2 is unparalleled. As you begin to run quests and tasks for 
 the Albion citizens, you will start to see different ways to complete them. Do you free some prisoners 
 at a bandit camp, or let the slaver that bought them take them away? Every one of these choices 
 plays a role on your character. You can play the game as pious as you can, helping the meek and 
 donating to the church, or play as dark and devious as you want, destroying people's lives and 
 ravaging the countryside to your will. The brilliance of the design is not in the extremes, but 
 in everything in between. Be a Robin Hood like character, become an established and accomplished 
 trader, buy up massive amounts of land and become a real estate baron, or strive to be merely an 
 average hero; you can play Swallow as you wish with almost no boundaries. Your actions have an 
 effect on much, including your appearance. Evil characters grow disfigured, becoming the demons 
 they are on the inside. Good characters walk with a glow to them, distinguished and respected. 
 People will react to you accordingly, so do not expect flowers from a little girl with a mouth 
 full of fangs and a couple horns.
  
  Outside of the hero's story, the world of Albion features a cavalcade of wonderfully designed distractions. 
 Real estate is the primary industry in the kingdom, an incredible amount of shops and houses are 
 available for purchase for your money making, or economy destroying, needs. Every property you 
 purchase also nets you bonus's to your character, from straight up attribute increase, to bonus 
 titles and renown in the land. Every town also has some mundane tasks that need to be completed, 
 which includes blacksmithing and woodcutting. These are done by hitting the A button at the right 
 time on the meter, the faster and accurate you are, the more gold you gain. These tasks have five 
 levels in total, rewards waiting for those that put the effort in. Players can also take advantage 
 of the robust economy of Albion through its shopping. Expanded from what the first Fable did, you 
 are able to buy and sell for profits at a much larger scale, taking advantage of stores that are 
 low on stock to pad your gold pouch. All in all, there is a massive amount ways to strike it rich 
 in the kingdom to those venturing fortune with their fame. Add to this the ability to start a family 
 and have children, the optional content is vastly deep and an experience on its own.
  
  Graphically, this may be the most beautiful game on the 360 today. In a day and age of gritty realism, 
 Fable 2's world is very colorful and whimsical. The sun's light fills the screen as you wander 
 through the countryside, grass and flowers blowing in the wind while you can see far off into the 
 distance. Every area has its own atmosphere and landmarks, letting you know the mood of the land. 
 Region's riddled with evil beings take a dark tone; the skies are blackened all day. Caves and 
 dungeon's are full of relics of times past, with small cracks of light and water dripping onto 
 the rocky surfaces. Day/night cycles and weather effects add icing to the overall package.
  
  The voice acting is once again top notch, and features a British sounding cast. It seems that 
 every person has their own set of lines, and very rarely will you hear too much repetition in a 
 group of people. On a side note, the matriarch of your quest for revenge, I swear she is voiced 
 by the person that did Kreia from KOTOR 2, and that chilling voice is fitting as she communicates 
 with you throughout your journey. The musical soundtrack is one of the best original collections 
 in recent years.
  
  Fable 2 came into its release with an almost insurmountable amount of hype, to the point that no 
 matter what some people will be upset about something.
  
  Their loss.
  
  The game was able to deliver on one of the best single player experiences on the Xbox 360 with 
 a very charmful tale, wonderful and memorable characters, and shear eye and ear candy.
  
  And I have yet to touch the co-op. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: degs
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 3, 2008 7:54 pm PT
Review:  I will make this review like the game short. When sequels jump platforms you want everything bigger 
 and better and Fable 2 fails to deliver. The game would have to be the shortest RPG I have ever 
 played, I think I may have cleared the game within a 10 hour period. During my first day playing 
 this game I pretty much dismissed it, then was told by a friend to stick with it a bit because 
 it does improve. Although by the time you just start to enjoy your played when he/she is starting 
 to get powerful the game ends. Fable 2 has very limited equipment to use, and does not really seem 
 to be needed because I found using magic worked the best anyways. In my opinion one of the best 
 parts of some RPG's is the gear but this game seemed to not make it a big factor at all, and to 
 be honest it seems that it did not make any aspect of its features a big aspect of your quest. 
 All being said it I did feel the need to want to finish it, but it is a DEFINITE rental. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ChuckE_Cheese
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 13, 2008 8:31 pm PT
Review:  Good:
  as one of fable fanboys, i'm obsessed with fable. fable had entertained me and had given me a tremendous 
 experience; fable 2 has somewhat done the same. albion has changed completely, your objective is 
 the same as before; work your way to become good so that the people will love and worship you, 
 or thrive to become evil, where your path leads to corruption and the people will be terrified 
 in your presence. your dog is a lovely companion that will not only help you in combat, but inform 
 you wheter there's treasure to be found. jobs are boring to do, but money is apparently essential 
 in fable 2, and demon doors are always annoyingly humorous 
  
  Bad:
  that been said, fable 2 seems to be missing something important. not like the first one, fable 
 2 has lost its predecessor's originality. running around in albion is somewhat not the same anymore. 
 lame and short story, unsatisfying reward, awkward magic combat, and lesser region to explore has 
 made fable 2 failed to live up to its reputation. 
  
  Overall:
  all and all fable 2 is a great addition to the 360 and newcomers, but maybe not so great for those 
 who has played fable 1. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: configme
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 3, 2008 6:51 pm PT
Review:  Um.... What happened? I thought this was supposed to be a sequel.... It's Fable with up graded graphics 
 and wider roads to run on w/ a dog. They give you a couple new features and take away armor... why? 
 This crap is worth a rent, no buying. It's a pretty good game if you weren't expecting from it, 
 but for some reason, I believed in Molyneux to make a sequel. If they make a new Fable after this 
 one, it needs to lose it's cartoonish feel and bring back armor, then I might consider it to be 
 an actual sequel. I hate to put Fable down like this, but between the upset and the bugs (there 
 are a few) , It was an actual disappointment. The multiplayer is just a way for your friends to 
 come and kill your family members too, which can be fun at times. I give it a 5.8, but since I 
 had to round up, it'll be a 6. Good day. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JohnnyC25
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 3, 2008 6:23 pm PT
Review:  Welcome to the wonderful world of Albion! With its magical realms, towns and countryside, yours 
 to explore. Become the hero you always wanted to be, good or evil, or perhaps a little in between. 
 
  You're starting your adventures off in snowy Bowerstone, a city in Albion, showing off Lionhead's 
 (creator) fantastic graphics engine on the 360. 
  Indeed the game has much much more to offer then the original Fable, that was in my opinion severely 
 limited in replay value, although still a little on the short side. 
  In Fable 2, even after the main quest line there are tons of side quests to do and collectibles 
 to gather. Own enough real estate and you're making a ton of dough on the side, without having 
 to lift a finger. In my game I'm making about 16000 gold every 5 minutes (tick) just by owning 
 bars, stores and houses that I rent out. This is of course great, but it makes it way too easy 
 to make money in the game and rewards like 400 gold for questing here and there make it seem like 
 a drop in the bucket. One of the rewards was for instance 50000 gold and I was like 'that's it?' 
 All that work for a lousy 50k? In the beginning it may seem a lot but after a couple of hours of 
 game play it's just not that rewarding anymore.
  There are however other treasures to be found that contain legendary items that you can't buy in 
 stores, it's just too bad there are only a few of them scattered around Albion.
  Another big issue I encountered is the sound. Voices can be heard from far far away as they were 
 standing next to you, speaking 'loud and clear' in a microphone saying some stuff over and over 
 and over again. For instance when you walk around a town with lots of people, and you're renown 
 (popularity) is high, you will have a whole string of people following you saying that they want 
 to marry you... funny at first but becomes extremely annoying when you hear 'we can't get married 
 without a ring' for the millioned time, even if you run from them as fast as you can the sound 
 still comes out very clear from your speakers... in one word, horrible.. but Lionhead has always 
 done this, it was like this in Black & White and the original Fable, still never realized it was 
 super annoying.
  The overall gaming experience is however great! There are awesome spells and visual effects. No 
 need to worry about mana (magic meter) any longer simply because there is none, you can cast spells 
 as many times as you like by 'charging up' your spell meter, the longer you hold it the higher 
 level spell you will cast. A very easy and handy menu lets you interchange spells quickly during 
 adventures, this is however the only easy menu in the game. The other menu, that you probably will 
 use the most, is kinda 'clunky', scrolling up and down looking for that 'what was it called again 
 item' if you wanna sell something, and the same goes for buying things.
  Also there is a gambling option (pub games, however not always held in pubs) , oooh I like ton gamble, 
 casino like games etc, let's check it out.. eeh it's very lame... lame with a capital L! And it's 
 not even so much the game itself, it's the amount of money you win.. first you need to borrow chips 
 from the 'GameMaster' before you can start and then you win 400G's when you hit Jackpot! Woohoo! 
 Oh wait, did I just make 16k just now from my real estate empire? How about being a high roller 
 and put in a million on the diamond (keystone game) , yes sir GameMaster, I'd like to put in a MILLION.. 
 why? Because I have it and I have nothing else to do... what? I can only put in 10 chips max? So 
 if I win I win how much? A whopping 40 gold?! That buys me only 4 whores in Bloodstone, that ain't 
 enough. So I steered away from the pub games pretty quickly, simply because there's no money to 
 be made with it, and I play for money, not fun! (fun, what's that... lol)
  All the other stuff in the game is positive stuff, yes you can get married and have multiple families 
 going, get a job to earn some extra cash or explore the world which is about 10 times the size 
 of the original Fable! Great game play, finally some replay value, story is good. Must play!
  
  ++ Graphics
  +++ Gameplay
  + Music / Effects
  -- Sound (voices)
  - too short?
  -- 
 Snow?
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: LoneMercenary08
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 3, 2008 3:36 pm PT
Review:  This game had a lot of hype in my opinion. The closer and closer the release date came, the more 
 and more I got pumped. Well, when the day came for me to pop in the disk... A whole new life began.
 
  
  When I say a new life, I mean it. You have to actually work for a living (i. e.-become a 5 star 
 blacksmith, bartender, etc.) After you have worked up some money, then you can put some of that 
 money into owning and store and (here's the best part!) you make money every 5 minutes, whether 
 you're playing or not!!! So, if you're making $500 every 5 minutes, you're going to be rich in 
 no time!! On top of owning stores and what-not, you can also get married to multiple women/men 
 (but be careful, if they live in the same city, things could get a little heated) . Also, you own 
 a dog throughout the game, and you "level" him up too. (i. e. He becomes a better tracker for treasure 
 and becomes a better fighter.)
  
  The graphics in this game are jaw dropping. When I first saw the graphics, I was amazed. I did 
 not want to stop playing. Just taking the time to stop in the Bowerstone Market and "gazing" around 
 was enough; but when you get outside the cities and are traveling the mountains and everything, 
 oh my goodness; the graphics are drop dead gorgeous.
  
  All in all, this is a fantastic game to buy. If you are any kind of fan for RPGs, this is definitely 
 a game for you. And for those of you who want to try a RPG, this is definitely a game worth trying.
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: strahd01
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 3, 2008 2:56 pm PT
Review:  I got this game for the local co-op I have played this game with 3 different people on their save 
 games and mine. First off I was really disappointed that you can only bring in your experience 
 and skills (Flourishes and spells) your HP and Strength and quickness is all linked to the main 
 player so don't expect to help some newcomer out and stomp the place. They don't even allow you 
 to bring your Character skin into the game you have to play Good, Neutral, Evil, Male or Female 
 skins. They also make you choose your sword and gun from a set list, I assume the weapons power 
 up along with yours but, who knows. The ability to adjust gold and Experience for guest is pretty 
 good so you can kinda power level them or just use a gold exploit like I did (all my friends have 
 1M gold.) 
  
  The gameplay is really buggy most of the time you find yourself trapped behind a rock or a tree 
 or even the players dog which can be a very agitating experience for both players when running 
 very far distances or in a enclose cavern. The Camera Angle is the worst I ever seen, apparently 
 Lion-head didn't want the two players to fight so they just cut off the ability to control the 
 camera at all, instead you click the LB to reset behind whoever pressed it which makes the game 
 a fight for whoever wants to see what they are looking at.
  
  Combat is fine it works like single player Experience and Gold is divided up by however you wanted 
 it and both players can bring the orbs to them. Frame rate in a fight can go from 30FPS to about 
 3FPS if a lot is going on (a lot of enemies, a lot of experience bubbles, Two spells at once) so 
 it is easy to get a head ache. 
  
  The worst part of co-op is that the second player cannot interact with anything unless it is combat 
 or a social interaction (Fart, Burp, etc) They cannot open chests or shop for items in your world 
 to bring back to theirs. I always felt bad when trying to whoo a girl into bed or go for that "Perfect 
 Date" Achievement when my friend, daughter or Girlfriend was playing but since I got the game just 
 for the co-op it had to be done. The second player cannot even go on a killing spree like they 
 showed at E3 the main player needs to "turn safety off."
  
  All in all it was a good experience and since I have to play 3 games I see the experience 3 ways. 
 But second player is just there to kill and gain exp and money and be a quiet observer otherwise, 
 which is sad it could have been so much more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Asian-Hawk
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 3, 2008 1:51 pm PT
Review:  Having played and completed fable 1 about 3/4 times and loving it everytime i couldnt help but 
 feel a little excited about the prospect of fable 2. Heck who am i kidding?! i was a little more 
 than slightly excited! I couldnt bloody wait for the damn game!!!!
  
  Due to my excitement i decided to pay full wack (40) on the day it was released and the moment 
 i turned the game on it felt like money well spent. I mean come on! Fable 2?! just like fable 1 
 but bigger and better and did i say better than fable 1! oh the joy was untold!
  
  Graphically the game was good and the light hearted charm of fable was well intact and clear for 
 all to see. The moral choices in the game, buying property, getting a job, getting married, HAVING 
 KIDS, oh my oh my oh my, this was gaming heaven and at one point i was giving this game 10/10. 
 Being able to play with your mates online..... MEGA!!!!!
  
  Then just as i couldnt be happier with the game.................. it ends................ with a 
 pathetic boss battle which wasnt even really a battle. It was just like watching a cut scene and 
 pressing a button which you simply keep hold of and then letting the game do the rest! Now excuse 
 me. Feel free to call me old skool but when i play a game especially an RPG and especially a game 
 which is as good as fable...... Im kinda expecting it to last more than 6 hours (if you only do 
 the main quest) and im sure as hell expecting some sort of bad evil dude to PWN! Come on i say! 
 Am i expecting to much? 
  
  Am i being overly demanding? Am i nit picking? Not in my bloody opinion! Whos bright idea is it 
 to NOT have a final boss battle in a bloody RPG. poor poor poor poor ) -:
  
  As dissapointed and disgusted as i was with the finale i still really enjoyed fable 2 and thought 
 it was a very good which i would recomend to people.
  
  Of course if you play through all the side quests and complete the game 3 times to see all the 
 endings and feel like buying every property and opening every chest and want to get all the achievments 
 etc then of course this game can last you 30-40 hours but i dont want to do all the tedious stuff 
 when there are so many good games out or coming out very shortly!
  
  All in all fable is a very enjoyable but stupidly short game which i am still recomending to people 
 although you may wanna wait till the price goes down first.......
  
  
  
  Ahmad Kholwadia a. k. a. Asian-Hawk 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dezfafara84
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 3, 2008 1:31 pm PT
Review:  To tell you the truth i love this game. Even with its problems i would recommend this game to any 
 rpg or sim fan. On the downside of the game........... what is up with multi-player?! Come on! you 
 get experience you get gold but yet you cant even bring your own guy into your friends realm? Hopefully 
 they'll give us a update so we can. On another downpoint, this is a massive game, beautifully done, 
 but i think they should of fixed more of the glitchs before releasing this masterpiece.
  anyway when all is said and done i give this one a  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: txhunter
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 3, 2008 12:18 pm PT
Review:  Sorry, this is not a review. I don't know where else to submit this, but I had a novel idea about 
 how to make some money. The game catches you up on all the money you missed out on when you weren't 
 playing, this is beautiful. Unlike Saint's Row. 
  Easy Money- You have to be offline for this to work, otherwise Live won't let you change the date. 
 Save a little cash and buy up some businesses and houses, the more property you own the more you'll 
 make. Go to your dashboard and set your Xbox system clock to Jan 2005. Run the game and save it, 
 then change to Dec 2025. BINGO. The game gives you 20+ years worth of money you would have made 
 from all your properties. Just makes life a little easier.... Also, easy XP when your buddy opens 
 the Culis Gate. You can stand there indefinitely and get about 20,000 XP every time. Stay as long 
 as you like the fellas will keep coming back two or three at a time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zarcon94
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 3, 2008 11:35 am PT
Review:  The Good: 
  Deals with morality.
  Many unique quests to do.
  Combat is pretty fun for an RPG.
  Interesting characters
  Dog!
  The Bad:
  Too easy to do 
 some things, like becoming fat.
  Wayyyy too easy to get Cash.
  Some jobs are quicker money makers than others.
  
  Fable II is a fun game, no questions asked. 
 If you wanted a fun RPG with a sense of humor, and a bunch of stuff to do, this is the game for 
 you.
  
  The game starts out simply. You're a little kid with a big sister, and you see a magic musical 
 box for sale by a trader dealing with exotic items. Your sister doesn't believe it, but a mysterious 
 stranger convinces her to believe it. The training for the game takes place in trying to get the 
 5 gold coins for this music box.
  
  The main portion of the game however, deals with trying to take revenge on the main villain of 
 the game. You have 2 main characters: You, the hero, and your best friend who runs around on 4 
 legs. NO, I'm not talking about that weird zombie standing next to you, I'm talking about your 
 dog. This companion is a constant source of laughs, of happiness, and of pity.
  
  The jobs section of the game is... interesting. Most of the jobs just involve waiting to press 
 the A button when the cursor goes over a green spot, but others don't. In the bounty hunting missions 
 for example, you use your combat skills.
  
  Speaking of combat skills, the combat in this game is fun. You have 3 weapons, melee, ranged, and 
 magic. The combat is fast paced, and rewards you for mixing it up in the fighting with magic, and 
 melee, and ranged, all in one battle.
  
  Family wise, you can have a wife or husband, and a daughter or son, and they'll want you to visit 
 them from time to time. If you don't, your wife or husband will divorce you : (.
  
  Finally, the expressions. These will be needed to impress people, woo people, and most importantly, 
 win people over. There's a variety of expressions, some that will make you laugh out loud.
  
  I can't explain every little niche in the game, but if you want to try it, borrow it from a 
 friend or rent it, and then buy it. Playing it will always be a better judge than words. If you're 
 not a fan of RPG's, I might not suggest it, but otherwise, it's a great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tbailey184
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 3, 2008 10:46 am PT
Review:  Just finished my first pass through the game. Overall I was very impressed and pleased with the 
 title. Graphics were nice, gameplay relatively balanced, with just a few exceptions.
  
  The reason this game doesn't rate a higher score comes down to just a couple things. First, land. 
 While the game is certainly bigger than the first, I still felt pigeon-holed into roads and paths. 
 There just wasn't enough open terrian for me to feel like I really could travel anywhere. Second, 
 the ending really left me feeling somewhat flat. I won't go into detail to avoid spoilage, but 
 just really didn't jive with me. Finally, I would have liked a few more clothing choices as well, 
 as I was in the same stuff for 2/3 of the game. With armor not being a factor I had expected many 
 more options, though having dye available to change the color did aleviate that some.
  
  These facts aside, I truly enjoyed the title, and am looking foward to getting an evil character 
 through the game once I beat Fallout. The voice acting was superb in a fun, cartoony way. The towns 
 were well done, and I enjoyed the job quests for the most part, though they do drag alittle at 
 higher levels. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Archrivel
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 3, 2008 10:11 am PT
Review:  Fable II does a great job of telling it's story and portraying it in a way that is easy to understand.
 
  
  You set out first as the young child "Sparrow" and you follow around your sister until she meets 
 an unfortunate fate. You however get saved and that paves the way for you to become a hero....
 
  
  Good or bad this game has thousands of hours of game play inside of it. Also Replay value, However 
 the games is kind of easy too easy really when there is no way for you to die. You just get a knocked 
 down lose the experience that you didn't collect and get a scar which doesn't matter too much if 
 you are going evil.
  
  Because there was no real way for you to be defeated you can just keep getting up and fighting. 
 The fight system is predictable like the official review stated you can predict where the enemy 
 is going to come from and how your going to deal with the problem. Sword fighting is simple and 
 easy and the spells make a good back up.
  
  If you use melee and Time control then you will be virtually invincible, I suggest using lvl 1 
 Time control with lv3 n lv4. That way they move so slow and a give you enough time to dispatch 
 8 of them before they can blink. This leaves you with a free lvl 2 slot you can choose. 
  
  Fable 2 has so much depth to it, it is great!
  But it lacks the detail that I came to expect 
 from seeing games like GTAIV - I can ram a car full speed and put a dent into the concrete wall. 
 
  On Fable 2 you sometimes see a person getting up from being shot in the head at point blank range.
 
  
  My favorite mission was - Massacre 
  Which you get from the Temple of Shadows.
  
  My wish that I picked was - Love
  I choose to save the dog.
  
  My Favorite Job - Assassin 
 society
  
  I was kind of surprised to see there was no achievement for going from 1 extreme to another.
 
  
  However this game get you gripped and emotionally tied to the game.
  
  Some people may get frustrated at the start as it is slow to pick up the pace as your constantly 
 having to wait around for your teacher and while the tutorial takes you through your paces. I can 
 only say that if you just get passed the start it is well worth it.
  
  This game is one of the best for 2008 It decently will get some sort of award from Gamespot, I 
 just don't think it's Game of the Year... but close! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LiK
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 3, 2008 9:38 am PT
Review:  This game is friggin addictive! It's tons better than the first game and really fun. I couldn't 
 stop playing it cuz there are soooo many sidequests. I didn't even complete them all when I finished 
 the main quest. 
  
  The graphics are uber gorgeous. While the character models could've been more detailed, the world 
 looks amazing. I was especially impressed by the art direction and lighting. I found myself sometimes 
 stopping to stare at the beautiful locations. The colors really pop and the world is just full 
 of life with swaying trees and little critters moving around. Even the caves look really nice and 
 colorful. Whether it's day or night, the world looks fantastic. I only had a few minutes of slowdown 
 and there's some fade-in but it's not too bad. 
  
  The audio is wonderful. The music is excellent and does a great job at creating the fantasy feel 
 of the game. It's all very subtle and never overwhelming. I gotta say that there were a few tracks 
 that reminded me of the music from the XBLA game, Braid. It's definitely a great soundtrack. The 
 voice acting is just as good. Every single character is perfect. The main characters are particularly 
 awesome and really do a great job with all their various emotions. The humor was great and the 
 delivery of the jokes are spot on. Good stuff. 
  
  The gameplay is your usual RPG fare but the combat system is what I wanted to talk about. It's 
 extremely simple and incredibly fun. The melee, range and magic attacks are all mapped to one button 
 for each move. The ability to switch from one to another on the fly made every battle enjoyable. 
 There wasn't one time where I was bored or tired of the combat. It's just plain fun and I hope 
 other action RPGs will take a look at this. And just like Dead Space, the game allows you to find 
 your objectives quite easily with a glowing trail. Very smart. FYI, you can turn it off if you 
 don't a guide which is a nice option. 
  
  One of the best features is your dog companion. This dog is great and might be on par with other 
 great video game animal companions like the horse in Shadow of the Colossus. You really get attached 
 to him and he's actually very useful. He'll look for treasures for you and help you in combat if 
 you train him enough. But the best part is that he'll keep you entertained when you're running 
 around all alone during some quests. I have a dog and I can say that Lionhead did a magnificent 
 job capturing the behaviors of what dogs do in real life. He is incredibly life-like and is animated 
 really well. Well done. 
  
  While the main quest's story was good, the sidequests are pretty interesting in their own right. 
 They're a real joy to play through. They're not simple little jobs (which you can do on the side 
 for the Jobs section) but there are a ton of sidequests which really are quests! They're pretty 
 massive and some of them took a lot of time to complete. Some sidequests even have multiple parts 
 which will have you going to various secret locations you wouldn't have found if you skipped them. 
 I didn't finish or try some of them cuz they would obviously change my character's alignment but 
 I will definitely check them out when I replay the game. This is one of the more addictive parts 
 of the game. 
  
  But not everything was perfect. The menu interface is really annoying. Example: Whenever you use 
 a potion in the menu screen you get dumped back into the game instead of staying in the menu screen. 
 If you plan on using a bunch of potions like the EXP ones then you're gonna have to jump into the 
 menu and look for the Potions tab over and over again which is just silly. The same thing applies 
 to the Food tab as well. Ugh. I'm also not a fan of the whole Expressions function. It's kinda 
 lame and not that deep. And once you're married, maintaining a relationship is a real pain in the 
 butt. I won't hold much against the relationships aspect of the game since it's optional but the 
 clunky menu interface kept me from enjoying the game as much as I can. Maybe the Dead Space devs 
 could meet up with Molyneux and work something out. 
  
  Overall, Fable 2 was a real surprise. I knew it would be good but I didn't know it would be THIS 
 good. I wasn't a fan of the first game like most people who played it. Fable 2 definitely improves 
 on a lot of things and really made the game easy to play. The story is good, the combat system 
 is stellar and all the various activities are incredibly addictive. This is a must buy for action-RPG 
 fans. Btw, the British humor is just brilliant. ^_^
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: cosmostein77
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 3, 2008 7:40 am PT
Review:  Lets be honest, Fable 2 is a game that is very hard to classify and review because the quality 
 of the title really has everything to do with the type of gamer you are, and how you play the game. 
 
  
  The gameplay really depends solely on you, while there are quests you need to complete in order 
 to complete the games main quest, from what I have experienced that pretty well encompasses perhaps 
 10% of the games entire sphere.
  
  Personally, I spent nearly five hours simply acquiring wealth through mini-games and side quests 
 just so I could purchase homes to rent, and shops to make me money so that I would be able to gain 
 gold even when I was not playing to game to support the very expensive weapons and clothing habit 
 I developed later in the game. 
  
  The same can be said for the side quests which I did for experience and renown, they can be entirely 
 skipped for the purpose of solely completing the main quest, it may be harder to complete the main 
 quest but it's certainly doable. 
  
  As a whole the control set-up and the ability to play through the game is very straight forward, 
 and I would imagine any gamer would be able to pick up a controller and be comfortable with the 
 set-up within minutes, combat by melee, ranged or magic takes some getting use to as they can be 
 varied but are generally simply enough to learn within a few short minutes and deep enough that 
 you can do some fairly cool stuff. 
  
  The menus are pretty straight forward considering all the stuff you need to keep track of, and 
 make what could have been a grueling task down to a simple chore. I will however complain that 
 I greatly dislike the fact that once you use a potion you are zipped back to the main screen which 
 can be frustrating when you have just acquired three or four experience or strength drinks. 
  
  As for the story itself, 
  Again, tricky. If you play just the main quest you will get a 
 functional story with some twists are terms that are interesting and generally entertaining. With 
 that said the main story can be killed off very quickly and will result in a very ho hum feeling 
 that the game has left you with a void. However, if you take the time to do even half of the side 
 quests which are greatly entertaining and do a lot to tie in with the first game as well as complement 
 the main story quest you will find that you may watch the credits thinking this may be one of the 
 best games of 2008. 
  
  Graphically, you get just want you want from a game of this size and type. The characters look 
 good, the various types of clothes and weapons look unique. The towns vary from region to region 
 as do the people. The dungeons all have a very unique and creepy look to them. 
  
  Considering the size of Fable 2 I have to wonder how all that detail of all those regions was able 
 to be crammed onto one disc, it truly is a benchmark setting game for the Adventure/RPG genre.
 
  At times you can see some rendering issues, for example your leg coming through your rope but 
 aside from that there was very few other glitches considering the size of a game like this. 
  
  The one item that really can be overlooked which was very impressive was the environments, 
 it almost seems like every tree is different from the next and the lighting effects that comes 
 from lamps and torches is very cool.
  
  The score and voice acting that are attached the Fable have to be among the best that have come 
 to the forefront in 2008. The score is varied and epic and even the small bit characters is voiced 
 are done well and seem to fit into a medieval theme. 
  
  The more central characters are very well done, and really do add to the games story. The hero 
 of wit (who is voiced by Firefly's Ron Glass) is very well done and among the best I have every 
 come across in the arena of video game voices. 
  
  Perhaps one of the aspects of the sound that I noticed more then anything was the battles, the 
 sound of steel on steel in a 5.1 environment was very well done, even the aspect of having an arrow 
 zip by your character is done very well, done so well that you can almost tell how far away the 
 enemy with the cross bow behind you is from the time between the click of the crossbow to when 
 the arrow crosses your line of sight. 
  
  The replay value of Fable 2 may be its strongest selling feature, while it may not offer you the 
 same wildly different paths as something like KOTOR 2 or Fallout 3, the various tasks and quests 
 you can undertake make this game well worth playing at least two or three times through. Couple 
 that with the various mini games and side quests which offer some variety depending if you are 
 playing as good or bad keeps it interesting. 
  
  The aspect of the Co-op play adds an interesting dimension to the game. Being able to come aboard 
 into a friends version of Albion is certainly cool. While it may not end up adding the same sort 
 of replayablity that something like Crackdowns co-op play adds, its certainly interesting and worth 
 enjoying
  
  As a gamer who tends to generally dislike side quest as I often see them as an artificial way to 
 extend gameplay, I will be the first to admit I am almost saddened by the fact that some of the 
 very cool side quests which very well could and should have been part of the main quest will never 
 be played by most gamers who are simply flying through the game looking for the ending credits. 
 
  
  Based on my experiences, this may be one of the better sequels I have seen in years and should 
 be a must own for any 360 owner. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: tarbun
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 3, 2008 3:49 am PT
Review:  I have never been into this sort of game! Battling Orcs and levelling up! I bought in to the hype 
 and got myself a copy and was amazed. Hours just dissapear when you are playing this game.
  The story is engrossing, the side missions are great and varied. There is too much you can do in 
 the villages and in you charectors life! Marriage, babies, jobs etc.
  The good evil thing is a clever addition. The subtle appearence changes are odd but good too!
 
  
  Combat is great fun and adds variety and depth to the game. There are some truly epic fights where 
 you feel outnumbered and victory seems impossible but some well placed spells and attacks can turn 
 things around.
  
  The upgrade system is clever and adds lots of fun moves to be used in combat. Spells are varied 
 but overall neccercary to beat the game. Nice to have the option for all the RPG fans out there!
 
  
  I just feel that this game is a complete package. Good battling system with varied moves and spells. 
 Good story and a good engine to back it up! Awesome stuff 
::::::

::::::
UserName: snowboy637
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 3, 2008 1:26 am PT
Review:  The second game in the fable line up. I must say they'v not put a foot wrong. Fable II is just 
 as addictive and fun to play as the first, with great magic effects and a fun battle system. Fable 
 II makes a enjoyable and highly satisfying game to play. I would make sure you play this game, 
 as it rules. The only draw back i found was money is far to easy to come across, but this just 
 makes buying equipment etc a little easier. The battles are fun with a variety of weapons and magic 
 to use to crush and destroy your foes. After destroying your enemies you gain levelling up points, 
 for example if you destroy a foe with your sword you gain strength points to level up your sword 
 skills ( this works the same for you bow and magic skills) , so depending how you fight your battles 
 will decide the outcome of your charecters strenghts and weaknesses. I kind of liked this touch. 
 ( A word of advice, try and level up all your skills as they will make things a hell of a lot easier 
 later in the game. All in all, this is one of the best titles of this genre on the xbox 360, and 
 one worth definately having in your collectio. Thanks for reading, hope you enjoy the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: i8blind
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 3, 2008 12:35 am PT
Review:  i was hoping a better score than fable1... but seems less.. i gave fable1 a perfect score because 
 it is truly a masterpiece... the best ever! peter did an excellent job but there is still some 
 needs 2 improve... magic is 2 little... the first fable did a wounderful job with magic.. ive max 
 all of them... but thats it... magic was the only problem i got from fable2... but still my top 
 five best game ever..... many people loved fable2.. i dont blame them im addited to this game 2.... 
 i hope there'll be a third fable... and this time with a same style but with more powerful and 
 beautyfull magic..... 9.5.. a big nombor for fable.. not much word 2 say... not much... needs some 
 ideas.... aaaaa... i cant seem too open a box yhays needs to be visited in fable2. com 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dbmccart
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 3, 2008 12:29 am PT
Review:  Fable 2 is set in the fantasy world of Albion, much like it predessor. From yhe start you take 
 the role of a Male or Female child and even the choices you make at this point in the game can 
 effect the future. Fable 2 has taken both Hardcore Fable Players in mind while making the control 
 easy enough for a newcomer. Though I highly suggest you play Fable The Lost Chapters to avoid confusion 
 on first game references. The game is definately longer then the first and has the addition of 
 numerous side quests, where in the first on you only had a couple. Saying this game is short is 
 the same as saying Oblivion is short. This is a game you need to take your time and not just run 
 through the story. There are several huge cons to this game that prevent it from being a 10. There 
 are alot of glitches in this game, Co-op not only lags but even over live you don't have seperate 
 cameras, the biggest con of the entire of game and a huge spoiler (You may want to choose to stop 
 reading, but I think you should know this before buying the game.) , the ending epicly fails, and 
 I do mean epically fails. Most of the people I know trade the game in after beating it. Here's 
 what happens, the game builds up alot of excitement and up until the ending the game is epic. The 
 first disapointment your going to run into is Thresa tells you that you are going to summon the 
 Ultimate Weapon to combat Lucian. Turns out its a music box (A serious wtf moment) , so don't get 
 over excited about that thinking the Sword of Aeons is making a return. The next and biggest disapointment 
 is the fight with Lucian himself. You walk in use the music box and shot him once. Infact you don't 
 even have to shot him Reaver will shot him if you don't. It's exactly as long as it sounds if not 
 shorter. I could see realism if you didn't fight your way through hordes of his minions who you 
 could pound away on 10 times with a weapon and not kill them, just to have him die in one shot. 
 If you could have killed him in one hit all along, the game shoulda ended in the spire by simply 
 walking up and punching him, instead of dragging it out and you having to find the 3 heroes to 
 beat him. Also Hammer The Hero of Strength is an Epic fail, asking why I didn't choose the money. 
 I wanted my Dog back thats why i didn't choose the money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: StonedPyro
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 3, 2008 12:20 am PT
Review:  I loved the original Fable, infact ive always enjoyed Lionheads creations, so Fable II was a must 
 get.
  
  Not Disappointing - From start to finish this game is packed with stunning graphics, sounds that 
 could win eurovision and fun little extras such as having a pet dog, destroying the gargoyles and 
 buying a business empire.
  
  You can be going through a town on this game and you'll hear in a scottish accent "ach yer don't 
 even knooow which way to hold a crossbow" which is one of the many insults the gargoyles throw 
 when youre looking for them, its a great side quest on the game because they are really annoying 
 but so satisfying to hunt down.
  
  The main storyline is far too short for me, however its an interesting storyline and i can expect 
 any gamer to get heavily engaged with the game, and it seems every decision you can make can potentially 
 affect the whole game, if youre looking for a game to last you more than a week though, i'd reccomend 
 Oblivion.
  
  All in all this is a great game and i'd reccomend it to everyone except for those who truly detest 
 RPGs and Black and white 1 & 2, but if youre on a budget get oblivion and wait for Fable II to 
 go down in price.
  
  8.5/10
  R. B. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: godbyeo
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 2, 2008 7:50 pm PT
Review:  I was waiting for this game since the first time I beat the original Fable. This was an amazing 
 game that has been underated once again by the reviewers from gamespot. The problems were minor 
 if that and had no effect on the actual gameplay or how fun it is. The load times had no major 
 effect and were not that long compared to some games. Plus the story was amazing and entertaining. 
 The one thing wrong was the final confrontation with Lucien. But the rest was amazing and should 
 over weigh the small problems such as these. The game is up there and mpre with it's previous game. 
 A total contender for best game an rpg on the  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: badgamebird
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 2, 2008 5:36 pm PT
Review:  Fable 2 takes everything from the first game, improves it, and adds more. The combat system is 
 amazing. Depending on your weapon and abilities, you could do anything from button-mashing swings 
 to throwing your sword in the air and catching it to stab an enemy behind you. Having clothes instead 
 of bulky armor makes you fit into the game much better. Once your dog has been fully trained it's 
 actually a really good companion. Real Estate has been improved greatly as well. You no longer 
 have to be an evil murderer to own everything, although that's still an option ha ha. There are 
 many twists and turns as well. The only problems I have found are not major ones. Weird coop cam, 
 I've seen maybe 3 npc's that get stuck and don't respond to anything, those sort of bugs. They 
 actually did away with the magic bar which makes playing around with spells outside of combat a 
 lot easier. I can honestly say it is one of the best 360 games I've played. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lilsushi352
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 2, 2008 5:14 pm PT
Review:  For about 2 weeks, all I heard was Fable 2, Fable 2 Fable 2! So I came to the conclusion, I need 
 this game. Once it came out, we talked about how you could get a wife, have kids and all the things 
 you can do. Customize your character, go get drunk, go find a prostitute, and tons of other things. 
 Then I realized, we were only talking about the side stuff! I still had to play the main quests, 
 the side quests, and all the little missions that people have for you. The good and evil choice 
 is also very good. It should be a little more diverse, and the good things should be more significant, 
 as well as the evil. You can't tell too much difference between the bad saide of the town and the 
 good. I still havent completed all the quests, and I am still exploring the possibilities of the 
 side world. In my opinion people hyped it up too much, and it wasn't all that they said it would 
 be. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SLICKViP
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 2, 2008 4:57 pm PT
Review:  Fable 2 is a game of choice. Will you be evil or good? Corrupt or pure? Morality plays a big role 
 in this game and it is implemented well in general terms. Some choices have you scratching at your 
 head trying to figure out which is the best option whereas at some points it is quite easy being 
 the bad guy, as you do not really feel a connection with, say, the local villagers when you raise 
 prices in a local shop.
  
  Combat is fun and simple. Y for guns, x for melee and b for will/magic. It has a surprising amount 
 of depth however and as you progress, you will soon be getting more experience using more lavish 
 techniques to rid the enemy.
  
  Co-op is fun but it is dissapointing that you cannot bring your own character into the game. It 
 is however very simple to use although the camera can be slightly annoying.
  
  The main quest of Fable 2 took me only around 10 hours to complete, but searching for all the silver 
 keys, gargoyles, demon doors etc will leave you more hours to spend time in albion. However, the 
 game is hardly challenging; you cannot die and you only lose experience points.
  
  Another thing I admire is the way you can buy properties and rent them out, move in, adjust prices 
 etc. Even when your 360 is turned off you will still be earning money every 5 mins and this is 
 very helpful.
  
  Fable 2 presents a world which you can manipulate to your liking and is definetely a game worth 
 checking out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darkreign2424
Rating: 5
Date: Nov 2, 2008 4:35 pm PT
Review:  Fable 2 is a cool game, no question. But after spending DAYS played, I have aquired every property 
 I know of, bought the best rifle and mace with 2 augments each. 
  
  I have just recently completed the Spire portion and now when I try to enter Brightwood to go see 
 Hammer, the game freezes. Totally freezes.
  
  Im dead in the water. I can go ANYWHERE else in the world, but Brightwood. Guess where the nest 
 step in the story is? Yeah, Brightwood.
  
  This will be the last game I ever buy from Molyneaux. This is not the first bug I have encountered 
 (namely that there is a property I own that still thinks my family lives in it even after I have 
 moved them out, negligible but still a bug) , but this has BROKEN the damn game!
  
  I cant complete the damn game! Someone will say "Just start over." Thats the solution? Thats your 
 solution for paying someone $60 for a broken product on a non-patchable platform?! I dont want 
 to start over! I want to complete the damn game!
  
  Buyer beware of buying this on 360. I have combed message boards... I am not the only one. This 
 game has too many variables that havent been fully debugged. I am sure there is some unique set 
 of circumstances that I did in game to cause this bug, but it does happen.
  
  For a game of semi-total freedom, its hard not to play this game uniquely. Hope you have better 
 luck, because I am getting my money back. Period. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fatmike2127
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 2, 2008 3:57 pm PT
Review:  Why did they have to make this game so much like the first fable. I got excited because I thought 
 that this fable would be different than the first, but it wasn't. Shame has been brought to fable. 
 The second edition to this series made a mockery of the first fable by making it more noob adaptable 
 with the unlimited willpower. The only thing that was really different was the addition of guns 
 instead of actual bows, although they did have cross bows. Maybe if they make another one, it will 
 be different like instead of your sister that keeps getting captured, it would be your brother 
 or no one at all. And maybe the end of the game would actually have an effect on the world like 
 in the first one. By the way on that, how could they put it where the last boss you fight in the 
 second fable you play some stupid song and he goes off a cliff. WTF 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CrazyRAPP3R
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 2, 2008 3:35 pm PT
Review:  I don't want to be the one to say Fable 2 was disappointing, because it wasn't... but from other 
 reviews and people I've heard, i get the idea that many do.
  
  Sure, I'm not going against the truth... Much was promised that wasn't delivered in the perspective 
 and the way we would have hoped to receive it.
  
  But only if people forget or look over the fact that it didn't live up to it's hype, I'm sure, 
 no fan of an fantasy/rpg gaming can really dislike Fable 2.
  
  First of all, Fable 2's visualization is the best I've ever seen in any current game, (or very 
 close call) . 
  The sound of characters, environment, enemies, and action is just marvelous. There is nothing wrong 
 with the way this game looks or sounds.
  
  The genre is just put out as a light rpg game, nothing too big and nothing too shallow.. (its no 
 Oblivion, but very few games are, in the sense for being a true rpg)
  
  characters you meet are unique and the humor is great (but im sure you already knew that... if you 
 played fable 1)
  
  See, the only bad thing about fable is the map and the way it is put out. Honestly, at first glimpse, 
 Fable's broadness is overwhelming, with all the extra paths and all... but later you realize, that 
 there is nothing interesting to do in this extra terrain... besides look for weird chests that carry 
 nothing special (occasionally you'll see something cool... but not too often,) and another thing, 
 if you just roam around, and then later quest... you'll find yourself coming back to the same places 
 again... (the game does a decent job of putting something out there only if you chase it through 
 a quest.) 
  
  if you just explore, there are just random things like finding statues, gargoyles to kill and just 
 not that interesting (again that is just preference, maybe you like roaming around and looking 
 for these little concepts put in games)
  
  Overall and all, Fable tries to put new and unique things in games, just some work out very well 
 and some fall short which gives people the impression that fable didn't live to up to the expectation 
 it promised...
  
  but all the extra/new stuff that does work can help you forget the concepts that didn't (if you're 
 the forgiving sort of guy)
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheDarkChainsaw
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 2, 2008 12:51 pm PT
Review:  Fable 2 is amazing. The story is great. The gameplay is also. The guns fit into the franchise just 
 great. Plus, there is a lot to do after you complete it. Fable 2 is nearly perfect besides one 
 thing: When you go into online multiplayer, you can not play as your own character with your friend 
 playing as their own character also. Sure you can get money and experience for your character, 
 but it's still not the same. *Spoilers*
  
  Your dog also grows on you in this game. After he was killed, I had to bring him back. The two 
 other choices were tempting, but Fable 2 isn't the same without your dog. Also, the game mentions 
 the hero from the original Fable a lot. I thought it'd be pretty cool to talk about your own personal 
 Fable 1 Hero. 
  Pros:
  Great Gameplay and Story/Dog Grows On You/ 
  
  Cons:
  No Armor/No Using your own Hero in online multiplayer/ Short Campaign. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MetalMan300
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 2, 2008 12:41 pm PT
Review:  Review of Fable 2: Collector's Edition
  
  I never played the first Fable, but from what I can understand from the reviews it was a pretty 
 good RPG game that had some features missing and was too short compared to most RPGs.
  
  I haven't bought an RPG in a long time, but I was convinced to buy this one after my xbox live 
 friends told me about how amazing it was. So, I took a chance on it and bought it as soon as I 
 got the money (of course I had to make it the Collector's Edition) . After I had played it for about 
 an hour or so, I saw why my friends loved it so much. It's a deep and engaging RPG unlike any game 
 I have played in a long time.
  
  The story is somewhat generic, but the plot advances at a good pace and giving you a good amount 
 of quests to keep you entertained. But the game offers up a large amount of side quests, factions, 
 and jobs that, while not as expansive as Oblivion, gives you a large number of things to do if 
 you don't feel like going for the story just yet. The interactions with the villagers are funny, 
 and I enjoyed being able to do just about anything to them and see what they do in response. The 
 combat is quite cool as well. It begins as simple button mashing, but once you upgrade your abilities, 
 like brutal styles and dextrous styles, you can seamlessly block, power attack, snipe and roll 
 without a hassle, which is huge fun. This combat is still fun in the new co-op mode, which lets 
 you take a henchman into one of your friends worlds and see how they've changed it while fighting 
 by their side. Kudos to Lionhead Studios for not being content with just having another player 
 play with someone else without any extra bonusus. In co-op, you and your henchman can do co-op 
 expressions, do team attacks, and divide up any experience and gold which will then return back 
 to your original character on your saved game.
  
  And speaking of experience, I personally appreciated the fact that this game doesn't rely on the 
 Level Up concept that has been used in RPGs since the dawn of man. Using experience to improve 
 skills makes the game feel much more managable than games like Oblivion (which is admittedly awesome) . 
 I also enjoyed that you can carry unlimited amounts of equipment and save the time traveling from 
 cavern store like you had to in Oblivion as well. 
  
  Fable 2 isn't perfect though. I got quite frustrated when I helped my friend's evil character kill 
 a bunch of guards with my henchman character, only to find that the evil deeds had been transferred 
 to my old character save, ruining my character's perfect purity. It also sucks that you can't use 
 your own character in someone elses co-op room. Co-op also has a bunch of glitches where the floor 
 will disapeer from under you, the game will slow down, etc. Hopefully these will be patched in 
 the future. Also, dying seems to have very little effect on your character except for scars, which 
 don't matter if you decide to just interact with the villagers in a kind way. This makes the game 
 WAY too easy to complete. And in a complaint exclusive to the Collector's Edition (which gives 
 you a suit of Master Chief Armor, an Energy Sword, and a Master Chief title, which is admittedly 
 sweet) , the free suit makes you so overpowered at the beginning of the game that you won't have 
 much of a challenge at first.
  
  Thankfully these complaints are easily ignorable, so its very easy to recommend Fable 2 to any 
 RPG fans. If you've got a 360 and some money to spend, go get Fable 2.
  
  Positives:
  
  +Nice graphics
  +Large variety of activites to do.
  +Master Chief Armor!
  +Sweet experience 
 system
  +Co-op!!!
  
  Negatives:
  
  -Co-op glitches
  -Initially overpowered with Spartan armor
  -Can't use your own character in co-op
  -Little 
 to no penalty for death.
  
  Verdict:
  
  YES! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lucas81093
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 2, 2008 12:36 pm PT
Review:  Finaly after 9months of terabul games they finaly bought out a Uber game. Lionhead should be proud 
 this game is one i will never tradein. Huge fan of the 1st fable spent like at lest 3 months of 
 my life playing that game. And i geuss im not going to be seeing daylight for a while again :P. 
 But it is a review im not going to be baist, there is a few flaws on it.
  Being Good On it Is next to impossible (any one who has on this game should be proud) . also there 
 are quite a few glitchs on it often iv been tossed in to the air and ended up with no legs just 
 a floating body. But everygame has its imperfections. But bad no where come near to the good things 
 about the game eg. Co-op, Jobs, Quests, Monsters, Guns, Swords, Castles, Graveyard manisions, Un-dead, 
 an arena... lots more dont you think it out ways the bad things just a little. My Message to you 
 is buy this game if you havent already and if you have why are you reading this review?. You Should 
 be playing lionheads 2nd masterpiece 
::::::

::::::
UserName: flipguy
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 2, 2008 10:46 am PT
Review:  I never really played the first fable but i herd it was great so i thought id try fable 2. It was 
 great way better than i expected im not really a big rpg fan but this game was really neat. I like 
 the fact that you can do a lot of things in the game like getting married or robbing someone. I 
 also like how this game had pistols i thought that was kind of neat. The one thing that i didnt 
 like about this game is the main story line i thought was kind of short. Maybe thats because im 
 used to people talking about elder scrolls with 100+ hours but i think i beat the main story in 
 about 9 hours. The dog in this game is rather cool also i like how hes always with you and you dont 
 have to worry about him. He also helps you find treasures. Overall this game is great definitely 
 pick it up or rent just to try it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NICk610
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 5, 2008 4:48 pm PT
Review:  Fable II fixes a lot of flaws that were in the original,
  but breaks a few things in the process. First off the game dosen't really offer any real challenge 
 thanks to the new "knock-out" system ; you don't actually die in Fable II you just lose all the 
 unabsorbed experience in the area meaning there's no real penalty for failure.
  
  Also the plot is a bit of a problem because you spend the entire game looking for the heroes of 
 strength, skill & will even when you find them you don't get to know them that well. Like the original 
 the characters are fairly forgettable.
  
  Now enough griping, now I'll talk about the good stuff, wich theres plenty of. The combat is really 
 gratifying (and groin shots are hilarious) I especially like the new combat system: flourishes 
 are cool to look at in slow motion. The environment in wich you're playing in is much bigger and 
 better than in the original fable.
  
  If you have played the original and liked it, chances are that you'll like this one too.
  
 
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: wandas
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 2, 2008 10:27 am PT
Review:  I could do without so many deviant characters in the game. Yes, I know that there are really people 
 like that but it is quite insane just how many there are in the game. Watch out for the freak in 
 Bloodstone whose cheeks (non-facial type) are showing through the freakish "clothing" the he\she 
 thing wears. The only thing I have seen in reality that comes close to this town is at the docks 
 in downtown San Fransisco. They could have sold alot more by cutting most of the trashy content 
 and made it more appropriate for older children. Our kids play it but not unsupervised because 
 of the risque content that they need to avoid. The map system could have been designed a little 
 better. They say it is a open world... just not completely. Some areas are inaccessible and the 
 area between regions is not available. It is, however, much more open than the original fable. 
 My characters spouse disappeared (supposed glitch) . The info page for her says that she is 0.0 
 miles away when I am at home but she is gone. Hopefully they will get that fixed soon. Overall, 
 Fable 2 is one of the best games I have played and will play again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lord_Alan
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 2, 2008 9:11 am PT
Review:  Do you remember when games were easy to play? I had lots of fun playing Sonic with my Dad when 
 I was five. Nowadays if I handed him a copy of Oblivion it would be like giving him a neuroanatomy 
 textbook: different media, same expression of bewilderment. 
  
  Games in 2008 are vastly different from 1991. They are complicated to the point where you can't 
 just pick up and play them. They require prior knowledge and careful wading through endless tutorials. 
 In contrast, it's easy to see how the intuitive arm flapping of the Wii has been so successful. 
 Luckily, Fable II is here to save the day for team Xbox: easy to enjoy, yet with a lasting depth 
 and complexity. It's the gaming equivalent of Guinness.
  
  Lionhead Studios are the perennial masters of disappointment. Fable promised the earth: a huge 
 world brimming with character that you could remake in your own image according to your will. Instead 
 it was difficult to make an impact in Albion at all; the world carried on regardless of how many 
 of its citizens you killed or bandits you thwarted. Fable was and is an enjoyable romp, but to 
 say it fell far short of expectations is a bit of an understatement.
  
  Five hundred years have passed since the events of Fable. A penniless orphan in the slums of Bowerstone, 
 events are set in motion that lead you on an epic journey. The means and ends of this journey are 
 up to you. Are you a courageous hero who stands up for justice, family and always lends a hand 
 to those in need? Or are you a malevolent rogue who has multiple wives while shagging prostitutes, 
 drinking and murdering and also in the game?
  
  In Fable, it didn't really matter whether you were good or evil. In Fable II, it changes everything. 
 Take the side of good and towns prosper, their villagers showering you with gifts and marriage 
 proposals. Side with evil and cities burn to the ground, slavers roam the countryside and assassination 
 contracts appear with frightening regularity. Good and evil is no longer the straightforward dichotomy 
 it was in Fable. Your actions truly make a difference to the world, which makes for some difficult 
 decisions as the game's story unfolds. 
  
  The biggest successes of Fable II are not those which build on the original game, rather the way 
 in which it approaches the basics so differently from anything else on the market. Anyone who has 
 played a modern adventure game will be familiar with staring at an inaccurate mini-map and trying 
 to navigate in vain. The ingenious solution is to place a glowing trail on the ground guiding you 
 to your next objective. Want to explore instead? Just ignore the trail and it fades away.
  
  Likewise, combat has been elegantly reduced to using just one button for melee attacks. Tapping 
 the button rapidly produces a string of quick attacks, while holding it down charges up more powerful 
 blows. It's not possible to die in Fable II: after being knocked down you'll spring back to life 
 with a burst of energy. Rather than making the fighting feel easy or arbitrary, it lets you concentrate 
 on the thrill of battle. In short, it feels heroic. The combat system is a triumph of innovation 
 and something that will make every game in the future worse for not including it.
  
  Perhaps the best addition to the Fable formula is your dog. Man (or woman) 's best friend is always 
 by your side: he'll bark to get your attention when he spots a treasure chest or a spot to dig 
 for goodies, growl when enemies approach and tackle downed foes. You can teach him tricks that 
 he performs as you dance for the townspeople, or just play catch in a field when you want a break 
 from all that adventuring. To be honest, your dog has more personality than most game characters 
 in recent memory and I just couldn't resist spoiling him rotten. Forget Nintendogs: this is the 
 future of time wasting.
  
  Unfortunately, it is in Fable II's co-operative play that the Lionhead hype machine rears it ugly 
 head again, threatening to spoil all the fun. We were promised the opportunity for two heroes to 
 play together for gold and glory over Xbox Live or in 'couch co-op', but this is not the case. 
 When joining a friend's game, a generic henchman inexplicably replaces the hero you've invested 
 so much time in personalising. It's not a total loss- the henchman inherits your abilities and 
 gains experience for your hero- but it is a baffling inclusion.
  
  Whenever the worst criticism I can think of is that your character looks strange when playing with 
 a friend, it's pretty clear that Fable II is an exceptional game and among the best I have played 
 in years. It's not perfect, riddled as it is with irritating glitches and quirks, but these seem 
 insignificant in light of the overall quality of the game. It is a hilarious, swashbuckling, massive, 
 incredible and most importantly fun adventure that is all too easy to love. Of all the choices 
 you can make in Fable II, one is easy: if you play games, buy it. If you don't play games, now 
 is definitely the time to start. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Robot-Jesus
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 2, 2008 7:46 am PT
Review:  Fable 2 starts out with alot of promise and optimism, but after all the harping on that Lion Head 
 has done about it, it really is such a complete disappointment considering how brilliant Fable 
 1 was. The game starts out in a beautiful cinematic of Bowerstone, and throws you into the controls 
 of the game's 'Hero' as a child. This prologue, if you like, is very similar to that of Fable 1, 
 if anyone has played, but is much less exciting, and all I found myself thinking about was getting 
 it done. It works as a means of explaining the controls to the player and building the foundations 
 for the story. After what is a very annoying sequence of odd jobs and getting started out on the 
 moral system, the childhood ends with an emotional scene. I'll do my best not to blow the story 
 for anyone who has not played or finished the game. After years of training with a strange mystic 
 in a gypsy camp, the player is unleashed into the world of Albion. After an unsatisfactory and 
 incredibly short story, the player find themselves taking the last few steps of the main story. 
 Unfortunately, the story at this point has not been explained very well and is not helped by a 
 silly scene from your childhood again. And after that, yet more confusion is thrown your way, as 
 you manage to walk right into the main base of the enemy... without any resistance. And after all 
 the confusion, the story ends. Not with a bang, but a whimper. A pathetic ending that really left 
 me pissed off. The game then gives you the choice to bring back all the ignorants who had died 
 during the story, to bring back your loved ones, or to give you 1 million gold. But at the end 
 of the day, it doesn't really make a difference. The game is incredibly short. I managed to take 
 the game seriously slowly, but I still had all the quests done in 20 hours. The game world of Albion 
 isn't that big either, and it isn't really free-roam, as paths for missions are set out, nor is 
 it as expansive as say Oblivion. Lion Head have tried to increase the play value by adding Gargoyles 
 to the game. These are small rock things that hang from walls insulting you in a funny scottish 
 accent and are scattared all over Albion. The idea is that there are 50 of them, and if you destroy 
 all of them, you get they're secret treasure, which is in the form of a weapon. The problem with 
 this, is that you can only get all of these after you've beaten the main quest, but after you've 
 done that, there isn't a hole pile to do, so having some weapon that actually isn't better than 
 the weapon you will probably have at that stage in the game anyway. The graphics are quite good, 
 but the game is quite jumpy and glitchy, and the controls seem too slack and choppy. The online 
 co-op is a nice idea, but is poorly executed, as both players can only be within a certain range 
 of eachother before they can't move, as Lion Head have made it so both players are on one screen. 
 Another set back of it, is that a person can only join the player's game as one of the preset appearances 
 for the henchmen, which was a terrible idea. The host of the game has the choice of how the money 
 and experience is split. Which brings me on to money and experience. Money is, obviously, spent 
 on anything to buy anything. You can buy any piece of property that you can walk into. You can 
 do jobs that earn you money, earning more money once you become more experience at that job. Fortunately, 
 or unfortunately, whichever you see it, money isn't hard to make, as you make income on every piece 
 of real estate you own, every 5 minutes. Experience is earned for killing enemies, and is spent 
 on buying new abilites and spells. Sadly, there are a poor amount of spells in Fable 2.
  
  The Good: Combat and graphics are rich. The game introduces some cool concepts like having a dog 
 and family.
  
  The Bad: Poor story that amounts to nothing. Fickle characters with few designs. Few spells. Not 
 as much customization as I would of liked.
  
  The Ugly: Horribly short, and alot of things were promised from Lion Head, yet alot is missing 
 from the final game. To sum up, whilst Fable 2 is fun to play, it does not deserve the attention 
 and acclaim it gets. Games like Oblivion and Mass Effect offer much more in the way of RPG's. I 
 would recommend renting this game. Don't bother buying, it's too short for that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skateboard1587
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 6, 2008 7:26 pm PT
Review:  Many of us have been waiting for Fable 2 with great anticipation, myself included. If you are one 
 of those people, buy this game. It is truly an immersive experience, and one you will not soon 
 forget. When you first pick up the controller, you will not want to put it down for some time. 
 Whether you're searching for treasure with your trusty dog or taking care of your spouse and child, 
 it is always addictive, funny, and plain old fun.
  The story of this game is not as bad as many people say that it is. You start off as a young male 
 or female orphan. You are living with your sister on the streets when the story begins. As in Fable 
 1, you begin by performing several odd jobs for gold so you can buy something. After about 45 minutes, 
 you're introduced to the main villain and whisked off in to adulthood. It is here that the real 
 story begins. You begin shaping your character's combat styles at this point. There are three different 
 types: melee, ranged and magic. At first, all three of these styles are just button mashing, but 
 as you gain more experience, you'll learn more advanced moves and spells. The combat really picks 
 up here, as you'll be mixing up all three styles with relative ease. The more you mix up styles, 
 the more experience you will earn. The experience system works very well, and once you get used 
 to the combat, you'll find that it is very fun and easy to use.
  The graphics in this game are interesting. There are several things you will find yourself staring 
 at, and some things that look very generic and relatively boring to look at, so you'll just ignore 
 them. These things offset each other, so in the end you have a game that from the graphical standpoint 
 is above average or average, but considering how far graphics have come, average is still pretty 
 damn good. 
  As far as character customization goes, your actions will affect the way your character looks. 
 You can change your clothes, hair, facial hair and makeup, but these things only really affect 
 your attractiveness, or sometimes your morality. However, there are several strange things in customization. 
 For example, there are stats such as cross-dressing or ridiculousness that seem not to affect gameplay 
 that much. The only stats that really matter are morality, purity and attractiveness. This does 
 not retract from the gameplay, though, because it is fun to have a ridiculous looking character 
 (a certain mustache comes to mind) .
  There are, unfortunately, a few things that really take away from this game. The co-op in this 
 game turns out to be a real letdown. The game is controlled by one camera, which is erratic because 
 it has to be moved by the left bumper, and not the right analog stick. Also, you are forced to 
 use a henchman instead of your own character if you go in to someones world. Although you get all 
 the experience back, it's still a shame you can't use your own character. Also, the final boss 
 'fight' involves now fighting and no challenge. Unless you find holding down the A button challenging, 
 you'll be just as disappointed in the boss fight as I was. However, this game is filled with so 
 many fun things to do you would really be doing yourself a favor by picking this game up.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jaguar1994
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 2, 2008 5:22 am PT
Review:  Fable 2 is a good game for RPG gamers.1st Every quest has a good or evil ending. Now the dog may 
 just be the best thing in the game. It will find dig spots and treasure, kill enemy's when on the 
 ground, bark if he spots danger and if your good he will look good and if your evil well he will 
 look mean. The main quests are good basic story is your sister was killed and your out for revenge 
 on the way you'll find friends and a lot of bad guys to kill.
  
  You can make money different like getting a job like a blacksmith or as a assassin or you can rent 
 out a house or trade things. Multiplayer is fun but if your the guest you cant play as your hero. 
 On the up you get to keep any gold and experience you get as long as the host is kind.
  
  Overall its a game worth buying and you will enjoy the many hours that you will play.
  And remember 
 its kill or be killed 
::::::

::::::
UserName: huntercal
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 2, 2008 4:36 am PT
Review:  This game came out with alot of hype surrounding it and I must admit that I was a little worried. 
 Not that Fable 1 wasn't great (it was) but Peter Molyneux has this habit of building games up only 
 to disappoint (Black and White 2 anyone?) . But thankfully this game really is as good as it sounds 
 with the world of Albion sucking you in and keeping you there for hours on end.
  
  Fable 2 is set about 500 years after the first installment introducing you to your character (from 
 now on lets assume you are the boy) and his sister who live in squaller on the streets of Old Bowerstone 
 in Albion. All seems to be looking up when you come into possesion of a magical music box that 
 grants one wish. But all comes tumbling down when the evil Lucien kills your sister and leaves 
 you for dead!
  
  Years later you have grown up and you begin your journey of vengeance against Lucien long with 
 your companion, a dog which you name whatever you want. Along the way you follow the main quest 
 as well as get jobs, perform side-quests, swoon the ladies, start a family, buy property and the 
 list goes on.
  
  Without a doubt the best thing in this game i your dog as it truly is the only character you feel 
 anything for. All the rest seem like they are there for the sake of being their and as you can 
 marry whoever you want and though this is good for the concept of choices at the end of the day 
 you just can't get attached to someone that you can ditch in seconds. 
  
  The only real gripe I have with this game is the lack of punishment you get for dying. I always 
 compare this to Oblivion in that when you died in Oblivion you had the rethink your next encounter 
 and learn from your mistakes. But in Fable 2 all that happens is you jump back up with full health 
 and have a scar for your troubles. Now when you are evil this makes no difference as you want to 
 look uglier so girls not wanting you is nothing special and when you are good everyone likes you 
 so being attractive isn't an issue either.
  
  Other than that this game is really good fun that you won't be putting down anytime soon. Now if 
 you just focus on the main questthis game is short but with all the side quests and the choices 
 that make you either good or evil there is plenty of replay value here. I have played about 40 
 hours worth and passed most of the side quests but still find myself returning to Albion to continue 
 buying property and killing more bandits. Buy it, love it, then thank me later! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rickemosh
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 2, 2008 3:35 am PT
Review:  Fable 2, sequel to Fable has got to be the game of the year its fantastic graphics and game-play 
 makes this game a masterpiece.
  
  Peter Molyneux, creator of Fable has once again delivered a fantastic RPG that will live on for 
 the rest of our lives and although many things he said would happen, didnt, i feel that it we hold 
 onto our hats and wait they will appear in future games.
  
  The main faults of this game has to be the CO-OP and the shortness of the story and although their 
 are other things wrong such as the lack of places, clothes and weapons im sure people can over 
 look it and just play the amazing game as it is.
  
  CO-OP on Fable 2 is a really big problem for several reasons. When you are playing CO-OP with your 
 friend/sibling if you go into a "scene" (where you cant press start or draw a weapon) and you have 
 to listen to an NPC talk about something important, sometimes on CO-OP it will get jammed and the 
 NPC will continue to speak the same thing over and over again therefore not allowing you to continue 
 with the game because you cant do anything.
  
  Another reason is the fact you cant bring in your own hero to CO-OP, yes you can bring your stats 
 but you can bring your weapons or you looks which is a bit rubbish.
  
  The story of the game is really short, even shorter than Fable 1 but with the amount of sub-quests 
 available it makes up to it to an extent.
  
  Although the Story and Sub-quests may not satisfy you for too long the amount of exploring, chests, 
 gargoyles and many other things available to you you will be playing this game for weeks and weeks.
 
  
  Overall i think that although their are some flaws in the game that dont make it as good as it 
 could be i think that its the most amazing game this year and we are all looking forward for word 
 about Fable 3 (hopefully) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Toriko42
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 9, 2008 5:28 pm PT
Review:  Fable was a game with epic scope and a lot of ambition. The issue that come along with that though 
 was the fact that many of the features Peter Molyneux promised simply did not happen. Luckily this 
 is the opposite with Fable 2. Fable 2 essentially delivers on everything promised and it also has 
 some nice surprises waiting around every corner. Many features also worked out better then anticipated 
 though there is one notable shortcoming in this department. 
  
  Fable 2 has a similar plot to the first Fable. It's set 500 years after the first game. The world 
 of Albion no longer believes in magic nor does it believe in the three heroes of strength, will, 
 and skill. The concept of a hero is dead until your character, known as little sparrow in the beginning, 
 is met be Lord Lucien. What ensues is a revenge tale where your hero attempts to avenge a wrong 
 done to him and it's a fairly cliche plot in this respect. What Fable 2 does do well plot wise 
 though is include some pretty great dream sequences. Your hero feels far more real then it did 
 in the first Fable game. This is due to the fact that the story feels more personal. You'll see 
 why if you played both games. What is also great about Fable 2's plot is the game has many characters 
 which are great. There are some hilarious characters such as Reaver and there are also some characters 
 that provide a more serious overtone. Lord Lucien is of course a notable badass but compared to 
 Jack of Blades he doesn't feel as evil but I believe this was intended. 
  
  Of course though, Fable 2 isn't really about the story. It's a nice thing to have and it's well 
 done enough but the chunk of Fable 2's fun comes in the gameplay and the sheer amount of choices 
 you have. After all the game is about choice right? What Fable 2 does a lot better then the first 
 is show you the magnitude of your decisions. One of my major complaints about the first Fable is 
 the shallow good and evil system. This game totally fixed this and made it better then I could 
 have hoped. Essentially everything effects your good and evil status even doing things like pulling 
 a weapons out in a city or threatening someone. People will also grow to hate you and fear you 
 or love and respect you depending on your actions. Unlike in the first Fable, actions you do outside 
 of quests also effect your reception from people around you. Also unlike the original, people react 
 in a far different matter to you depending on your good and evil status. There is also a new corrupt 
 and pure system which helps to determine just how evil or good you are. This is a great system 
 and allows for you to repent but if you go fully corrupt or fully pure you're never gonna change. 
 All your choices are also nicely reflected in the regions. For instance clearing out the bandits 
 in one region can make it thrive and grow. Leaving the bandits and helping them out can make it 
 a dark dank nightmare. The new good and evil system is awesome and it has been finally fully realized.
 
  
  Combat has also been changed for the better. Whereas before the combat was a little bit clunky, 
 the combat in Fable 2 is far more streamlined and it works extremely well. It also looks great 
 and the finishing moves, slow motion sequences, and spells look awe inspiring. The level up system 
 also allows you to do new attacks and new ways of attacking. The combat in the game is very free 
 form, you can approach things however you want and you can either focus on your wizardry, dexterity, 
 strength, or you can be a hybrid. It's much better then the first Fable.
  
  There is also a lot to do in Albion, the quests are much longer and a lot more fun then in the 
 first. They are also more varied. This helps to increase the longevity of the game. Jobs also are 
 surprisingly fun and provide a nice distraction. Relationships, marriage, and family are all fine 
 and dandy and hunting for treasure is also great. The UI has also been improved. In the first Fable 
 to upgrade stats you had to go to the hero's guild and then pick things to upgrade. In Fable 2 
 you just press up on your D-pad and you're there. Fable 2 is a far more streamlined game then the 
 first and it is much easier to play. Another example of this is the bread crumb trail which leads 
 you to the objective of each quest. You can either follow it linearly or go off and find treasures 
 and such. It works well but can make the game a bit too easy.
  
  The last notable gameplay addition is the dog. I love my dog and it is exactly as Peter Molyneux 
 promised. It hunts for treasure, it can attack, it provides companionship, and it never gets in 
 my way. I've never had a problem with my dog and it is something I can not live without. I wonder 
 how I got through the first Fable game without it. I wish real dogs were like this. The dog also 
 changes it's good and evil status depending on you which is a nice feature. It also will always 
 find you and never get stuck. 
  
  Fable 2 is a visually appealing game and it has some areas that are simply awe inspiring. The colours 
 in the world make it looks simply amazing and the player models all look great but they do suffer 
 from being a bit repetitive. There are also some dry looking regions but the great looking ones 
 overshadow this. The sound in Fable 2 is also great though it is a little repetitive. You'll hear 
 the same score over and over again and you'll hear the same voice actors over and over again. The 
 main voice actors are good though and that is all that truly matters.
  
  Sadly the worst feature in Fable 2 was also one of the most anticipated. The co-op feature is quite 
 disappointing and it is not a lot of fun. It is cool to see your friends world but the restricting 
 camera, henchmen status, and the lack of player interaction makes this co-op experience forgettable. 
 It's not a huge loss though but it's still regrettable it went in this direction.
  
  Overall Fable 2 is a great game which will suck you in for hours on end. The game is well done 
 for the most part and is for sure a notable quality increase over the first Fable. The new features 
 will have Fable fans coming back for more. Of course though I wholly encourage anyone to get this 
 game. It's a great value despite the short campaign but it has many hours of side quests to make 
 up for it. Albion is well worth revisiting and I hope you give it a try.
  
  Pros: Great cast of characters, great quest variety, good and evil system has a massive overhaul, 
 the dog is the best, combat is a lot of fun, visually appealing...
  
  Cons: ... though some parts could have been better, bad co-op, plot could use more substance
  
 
  Overall: Fable 2 is everything Molyneux promised. It is a superb game worth checking out.
  
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: phoenix_style
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 2, 2008 1:39 am PT
Review:  When I first played this game I thought that it was way too much like the last one, and that it 
 didn't live up to what Peter Moleneux said it would be like. Sure it doesn't live up to the hype, 
 but it is still a great game.
  I am playing as a good guy, and once I started shooting gargoyles, finding silver keys, beating 
 the crusible, giving money to barnibus to help westcliff, starting insane combos, and killing hollow 
 men in three steps (shoot their weapon, shoot their head, shoot them dead) , and getting further 
 in the story. It is definitly a 9.5. AWESOME!!!!! I felt as if part of the community, and spent 
 so much time finding ancient artifacts, getting achievments, and setting a perfect score in the 
 crusible. I would always retrace my steps when I found out that my dog wasn't beside me. I would 
 go through almost every map trying to find him.
  I couldn't stop playing the game and played every side mission before a story mission encase the 
 side mission would disapear. I gave it a 9.5 because I could imagine that lion head could have 
 done better on the xbox disc restrictions. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hazboticus
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 2, 2008 1:26 am PT
Review:  Many people have described Fable 2 in a somewhat dismal light claiming that its undelivered promises 
 are enough to condemn an original, engaging and righteously entertaining game.
  
  the first hour or so of Fable 2 work to completely sour the initial new game feel, aside from the 
 flashy cut scene there really is very little substance to the stiff introduction to Albion but 
 fear not the game picks up. after committing yourself for a solid session the world of Fable really 
 starts to open up, the world of Albion is given new life through its port to next gen, bringing 
 with it all the character and tongue-in-cheek hilarity of the previous games.
  
  Fable 2 is a game that really grows on you and should be played by any fan of adventure RPG's despite 
 its shortcomings and undelivered promises it is still an amazingly fun and entertaining ride that 
 anyone will enjoy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: arvilino
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 1, 2008 5:20 pm PT
Review:  Fable II much like it's predecessor Fable/Fable: The lost chapters, is a top notch roleplaying game. 
 The choice between being good or evil is made a little more complex than the first game with the 
 addition of the purity and corruption which add a little more to the character customisation and 
 the games focus on consequences of your actions.
  
  These come into play through what food you eat, generally meat products and alcohol are corrupt 
 foods and vegetables and water are pure, also whether or not you raise prices on renting out homes 
 and shops you buy affect this aswell.
  
  When comparing it to the first game you can see many changes. You don't earn gold from the quests 
 you complete, instead you can either make money buy doing jobs which are like little mini-games 
 where you do things such as serving beer in pubs, making swords at the blacksmiths or chopping 
 wood, in all these jobs are similar timing game you press the A button at a certain time to succesffuly 
 chop wood or pour the pint of beer or strike a sword with a blacksmith hammer.
  
  However to prevent being to repetitive if you do good with the jobs you get multipliers on how 
 much gold you earn so theres some strategy to get as much as possible rather than mashing the A 
 button.
  
  The combat system is also alot different to Fable, your 2 weapons a melee (including Swords, Maces, Axes) 
 and a ranged  are controlled with the X and Y buttons respectively 
 and Will Spells are controlled with the B button, at first combat is as simple as pressing the 
 buttons alone but as you gain experience you'll get newer abilities which allow extra commands 
 by holding or pressing one of the buttons while moving the control stick. However the combat ends 
 up a little unbalanced later in the game when using ranged weapons kills things faster than using 
 Will Abilities (which are all damage spells so it becomes redundant) .
  
  The Dog is something that I like about the game, it's presence and the presence of the golden trail 
 that leads you towards quests gets rid of mini-maps and radars and alot of things that clog up 
 the screen on many action rpg's.
  
  The Clothing is a bit dissapointing though as most of the clothing is posh get-ups you'd wear to 
 a fancy dinner party, not stuff you'd fight bandits or monsters in, the only clothes that actually 
 look like real combat clothes are Bandit or Highwaymen clothes which is bad for players that want 
 to be good characters. However thats not to say the clothing system is bad, there is alot more 
 variation than the first game because you can buy dyes for the clothes your hair.
  
  One of the biggest drawbacks of the game is the dungeones they
  suffer from the fact that they 
 all look like the same stony cavern, which is a dissapointment when the towns and fields all look 
 so diverse and different from each other.
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Technosapien1
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 9, 2008 4:12 pm PT
Review:  I've been playing games for 30+ years, and always look forward to a game release from a developer 
 as well known as Peter Molyneux. He is someone to whom you know can stretch inventiveness and new 
 ideas to new heights. But why then, has Molyneux and Lionhead created this into a heinously simplified 
 and diluted sequel? 
  
  I, like many others, was looking forward to Fable 2. The original Fable was enjoyable, but lacked 
 the depth of a good story. It was charming, but simple. Even someone like myself knew there was 
 room for improvement, and figured that Molyneux (And Lionhead) would realize that as well. 
  
  Rather than improve upon the strengths of Fable 1 and learn from its weaknesses, they've gone 
 another direction and almost made this feel like it was Fable for the physically and mentally handicapped. 
 
  
  The idea of being able to have a spouse and children is a novel one, but lacks ANY ties to reality, 
 and therefore to bonding with the characters. Just offer a few Victory Arm-Pumps, Farts, and Muscle 
 Flexes and you will have a slobbering lover in no time flat. Why isn't it this easy in the real 
 world eh? *Just kidding Honey!*
  
  A down side to seeking virtual-love, is that you will get a bunch of UN-intentional followers as 
 well, and this can be very annoying. They will follow you everywhere you go, often blocking your 
 way, and have no respect for your marital home, nor errrr.... any actions performed within (what 
 should be) your own, private bedchambers. 
  
  The market/economy is HORRIBLE. Money is all too easily earned, and there is almost nothing to 
 spend it on (other than Real-Estate which begets even MORE money) . The clothing line offers a few 
 class based wearables, as well as the expected Lower-Class, Middle-Class and Upper-Class textiles. 
 Furniture offerings are too simple and are only offered in low, middle and upper class fare.
  
  Add to that the decision of the game designers (in their infinite wisdom) to remove any unnecessary 
 distractions like ARMOR, there is almost no room for personalization, and further makes the game 
 feel like a hollow experience. 
  
  Combat follows my previous examples by being extremely simplified. You could swing your melee weapon 
 with wild abandon (and a blindfold for that matter) and the game auto-targets for you. The ranged 
 weapon is a bit more engaging later on, but does little damage unless you have time to really lock 
 on to a baddy. The spells have been trimmed down completely, and lack the moral penalties that 
 were visible in the original title. Strangely enough I found that I didn't need to use even a single 
 Resurrection Phial and it made me realize how easy it was to breeze through combat.
  
  The fun of exploring and finding hidden area's and items has been dumbed down to the point where 
 they may as well just have saved the programmers time and effort and given everything to you from 
 the start. Buy a few books for your canine companion and he will find ANY treasure and item 'hidden' 
 in the game. 
  
  Demon Doors were fun in Fable 1, and a tingle went down my spine as I encountered my first in Fable 
 2. Can you imagine that they've actually made this once enjoyable riddle aspect, into yet another 
 simple and poorly rewarded side objective? Well, they have. 
  
  Now we come down to Fable 2's excuse for the 'Arena'. In this sequel, they call it 'The Crucible'. 
 Sounds exciting eh? Well, settle down, cause they've managed to (dare I say it again?) SIMPLIFY 
 the whole experience yet again. Consisting of a run through 8 small cave chambers (and somehow 
 there's a vast crowd watching you in these small closets of space) you take on 3 SMALL waves of 
 creatures in each room. I managed to complete this contest in about 14 minutes and felt completely 
 cheated. 
  
  Despite the fact that I've done nothing but complain thus far, the game IS actually fun. The mini-game 
 jobs such as bartending, blacksmithing and woodchopping are a fun distraction for a short-while, 
 and the casino games such as Keystone could find itself in the Vegas Circuit. Your dog does find 
 a way into your heart, and becomes an avatar to your benevolent hand, or iron-fist (depending on 
 how you play) .
  
  To narrow this entire review down to its essence, I will say that the game does maintain (if just 
 barely) the standards set by Fable 1, and that it does have its humorous, scary and enjoyable moments, 
 It squeeks itself by as something that is almost worthy of the Fifty dollars you slapped down at 
 the game counter.
  
  What you truly get is a weak story, simplified combat and a dilution of just about every other 
 aspect of what we EXPECTED this sequel to become.
  
  I can only hope that Lionhead and Peter Molyneux get their butts off of their laurels and create 
 a game that we KNOW they are capable of making. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: quesiasje
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 1, 2008 3:05 pm PT
Review:  I love fable, but if I had never played the first one then I would have returned this the next 
 day. 
  
  10 things that suck.
  
  1 choices are more depressing then they are good or evil.
  
  2 No option to turn off the auto 
 save will drive you mad if you want a pure hero but don't understand a choice or make a mistake. 
 
  
  3 weak main story line, very weak. some side quests have more depth then the entire main quest.
 
  
  4 There might as well not even be a map.
  
  5 chests won't open, doors won't open, Gates won't open, NOTHING WILL OPEN! unless you smash the 
 a button and move all over the place, then maybe.
  
  6 no end boss? no end fight? what the hell?
  
  7 Just because you can hop a fence doesn't give 
 this game an inovative boundless world award you still can't get anywhere or do anything without 
 following the pree programed path.
  
  8 I got fat in fable 1 it was funny then I ran it off. get fat in this game and you's stays that 
 way. 
  
  9 clothing gives no protection 
  
  10 the Game is so easy you don't even have to play it.
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: suicidal_T_H
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 1, 2008 2:56 pm PT
Review:  Wow this game is great. First of all I love how they break the up the game into three different 
 chapters. The combat is simple yet satisfying. One button is melee, another is ranged and another 
 is your magic attack. It's neat that the way you upgrade your stats is by using that weaon a lot. 
 The characters are funny and the side are interesting. It's a little too easy though to get people 
 to like you so it makes the game kind of easy. I do like how you can buy house but most of the 
 time they are too expensive. I also loke how some quest are generally evil and some are good. I 
 also like how there are degree's of evilness and corruption. I like how the game isn't too long 
 or too short I feel they are just right. Overall this game an excellent game and everyone should 
 give this game a try. This is definitly one of my favorite RPG's of all time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dem0nD0nkey
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 1, 2008 2:54 pm PT
Review:  FABLE 2 is a very good game it is exetremely addictive with many twists and turns you never now 
 who u become unless u purposeely do something it has a great story to fallow the grahpics are up 
 to date great rain snow nite and day thing there are a few down sides im not sure if all copys 
 are like this but mine is very glitchy and lionhead should of added alot more weapons and clothing 
 it is quite easy it being a fairly short game if u zip through it, it should have a harder difficulty 
 i have to say the overall idea of having a game that your character is shaped by your actions is 
 pretty kool but i dont suggest being fat the acheivements most of them are fairly easy its an easy 
 game to boost your gameerscore the acheivements are very interesting coop is good but it could 
 be alot better online coop however looks excellent havent tried it the dog is so awsome its like 
 a non stop animal you can through the ball for him or her u can get them a calor you teach them 
 to treasure hunt and to do tricks ur character is also customizable by what u buy u can buy tatoos 
 and makeup and all sorts of clothing or no clothing at all but there should be more clothing now 
 almost every peice of property can be bout u can buy stores with stores u can lower or raise your 
 income rate you gain wealth every five minutes even if your xbox is turned off overall its a good 
 game because it has every thing other games dont have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aTRUEplaya
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 1, 2008 1:53 pm PT
Review:  Being a big fan of Fable 1, I got really stolked for Fable 2. I started doing research on it, watching 
 anything available for the topic, and even preordered the limited edition months before the game 
 itself came out. I even stacked up a nice sum of gold on the pub games before its release.
  
  After finally getting to play it, I realised the game wasn't ALL it was cracked up to be. Let 
 me start with the few things that somewhat disappointed me about the game: the story wasn't all 
 that great (especially the ending) , it is WAY to easy to make cash (therefore making the whole 
 living factor of the game less fun) , and villagers can get really freakin annoying.
  
  Some better things you'll notice: The combat in the game is exsteamly fun although it is easy at 
 first and then manages to get harder. Socialising can be very funny and entertaining. And the uniqueness 
 of your charecter is just great. 
  
  I wanted to give Fable 2 an 11 out of 10, but 9 is about right after experiencing it. Still, this 
 is a game you can't miss, and I would definatly recomend it. Buy it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: llTylerll
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 1, 2008 1:46 pm PT
Review:  Fable 2 for xbox 360 Is a fun rpg set in the times of swords , and the new coming of weaponry guns. 
 The story of the game is great it leads on for about 10 hrs not including side quests etc and leads 
 the player through a pretty good story but maybe not as good as 1st games story. Gameplay is Fast, Simple, and 
 hard to decide of how to take down enemies, from  etc it leaves 
 the fast and furious combat up to you, the swordplay nd gunplay is so solid it sells the game it 
 self with its fun factor and with rpg elements such as getting new magic powers or upgrading strength 
 it really leads to some fun moments. Co-op is dissapointing and leaves the 2nd player to pick a 
 pre made character (check for updates in future) and both players share the same screen which makes 
 the coop some what lacking of what you can actually do.
  The good and evil system is cool and applys to quests , and side quests which is fun. The dog you 
 haves is cool and can also be leveld up. there are 3 endings with their own consequences , great 
 achivements.
  Overall Fable 2 is a must-play 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Firefly00
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 1, 2008 10:32 am PT
Review:  Well firstly, I'd like to state that I've never played the original Fable nor had I even really 
 heard of it until Fable II began receiving hype. Even then I wasn't that interested and then when 
 I learnt what it was I thought I'd best pick it up as I loved the concept. There's a lot of praise 
 and criticism for this game but sometimes I felt that the glitches and bugs did out balance the 
 need for praise. Yet it must be said that this is ultimately a great game and is worth picking 
 up.
  
  Lets start with the positives, as there are many. The voice acting is superb, it's great hearing 
 familiar voices in a game as it just shows how widely the gaming industry has spread and that it's 
 a recognised and accepted form of entertainment rather then it just being a selected group of people 
 who play. The gameplay itself is very immersive and you'll find yourself playing for hours on end 
 continuously trying to become good and pure or evil and corrupt. Then you'll take great pleasure 
 in finding yourself a wife and having a child or perhaps playing the field a bit before settling 
 down. Whatever you want to do you can. 
  
  The difficultly level itself is probably just right although perhaps a little too easy at times, 
 it could definitely be more challenging. As well as the decent gameplay then graphics are lovely 
 to look at, with the different tones and shades and the enchanting look to them. They certainly 
 make the game feel more of a fantasy. Although I'm usually not bothered by music in a game I am 
 quite fond of the soundtrack in Fable II, it's soft and gentle and often sets the mood for your 
 quest ahead. Tying in with gameplay, the quests and great and there's a wide choice. 
  
  However, - and that's a fairly big however - there are a lot of glitches in the game and some of 
 them are game breaking. I've experienced a few bugs and I know a lot of people have had more serious 
 trouble with it. It's expected that games have glitches or bugs but I feel that with Fable II it 
 makes you frustrated because it feels like they should have taken more care with it. Another small 
 thing that annoyed me is the main protagonist who you play as. I feel he lacks a certain substance, 
 as all the characters around him ooze personality and he doesn't actually speak back. I see that 
 this could be so you are fully controlling what he does and his emotions but it does get slightly 
 annoying.
  
  It's hard not to enjoy Fable II, if you look past the technical faults there really is a great 
 time to be had with it, you just have to be fairly patient at times. Although the good and evil 
 choices are either black or white, and therefore tend to miss the wide grey area in between, it 
 still offers an interesting concept and is fun to choose your path and ultimately your destiny. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: karate460
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 1, 2008 10:18 am PT
Review:  I love this game. It is highly addictive and is very exciting. Best parts of this game are listening 
 to the story line and working on being good or evil. Only downside is that you can finish the story 
 very quickly. Best thing to do is to listen to everyone talk and to make sure you take time to 
 explore. Another fun thing to do is to play it with someone else. Though it can get annoying at 
 some times, it is fun working as a team. The biggest downfall of multiplayer is that it is not 
 split screen so your characters have to basically stay right next to each other. Also you when 
 you are playing with someone else you lose your ability to have free camera movement, that is something 
 that i felt kind of annoyed about. Besides those thing this is a great game and if you are looking 
 for an adventure and an overall great game picking up Fable 2 is one of the best choices that you 
 could make. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kilgorin666
Rating: 4.5
Date: Nov 24, 2008 3:11 pm PT
Review:   Combat
  Since they used a 1 button system for each attribute for the hero (Strength, Skill and Will) the 
 combat system has gone way down. Hitting people with fists is now non existant. You have to learn, 
 EVERYTHING by yourself. When you start you can't even block attacks.
  
  Once you learn everything about combat, it gets a little better. But still, the combat lacked. 
 Thery should have kept the original controls.
  
  Still is no better. Again, you have to learn everything through experience. When you learn to aim, 
 half the time you'll looking at your hero's arm. Aiming is almost impossible. Rolling is something 
 you'll do once and never need to do again. Again, lacking.
  
  Will, using magic, had the same problem that Fable 1 had. Certain spells are grossly overpowered 
 and once you master it you walk through the game easilly and with no trouble.
  
  The failed with combat, again really.
  
   Storyline
  The story is a good one. Although short. 
 IT starts with you getting crapped on by a bird. You need 5 gold peices to get a music box which 
 grants one wish. You and your sister decide to wish to live in a castle.
  
  Now the whole game is based around 4 heroes. The hero of stength, skill, will, and you. The one 
 who brings lucien down for good.
  
  Lucien is trying to rebuild something called the spire, which could wish for anything at all. Anything.
 
  
  You kill lucien and choose one wish, between reviving your loved ones, reviving all who died building 
 the spire, and wealth.
  
  It's more original than the last one, But it still lacked.
  
  And one hugely bad point:
  
  NO FINAL BATTLE.
  
  I've said enough.
  
   Graphics
 
  One of the only good point of the game. I must say, the graphics are stunning. The world is rich 
 with colours and everyone you seems very much alive.
  
   Voice acting
  Another good point. The voice acting was very realistic. And it fitted the motions of the character 
 very well... But...
   Why did they make bandits scottish?
   The characters have exactly the same problems as the previous game. The people there are very 
 shallow. And they only ever really say 2 things.
  
   Your dog
  Another good point. Your dog really grows on you, and he is very useful with finding treasure and 
 dig spots.
  
   Misc:
  
  Good points:
  - Rich graphics
  - There are subtle link backs to Fable 1.
  - Your dog makes the world a happier place.
  
 
  Bad points:
  - The prizes in demon doors are awful.
  - Once you learn a top level spell theres no need for anything else.
  - Even though you can be 
 a girl she still looks like a boy.
  - WHERE HAVE ALL THE CLOTHES GONE??? Theres hardly any clothes!!!
  - Only 5 towns to go to and 
 all the travel between each place is gone. 10 times the size of fables world my ****.
  - The free roam hype is silly because the free roam part of the game is non existant, pretty much.
 
  - Moneymaking is far to easy. After a while you can make like 1000 gold for serving one beer. 
 And after thatn your set for life.
  - No final battle in the whole game?!?
  - If you choose to revive your sister in the final choice, you find that you never actually see 
 your sister anyway. You just get a silly letter.
  
  I'm going to stop there.
  
  Overall, Lionhead, what the hell happened?
  
  I was very disappointed with this game. It has 
 no character in it whatsoever, clothes have been toned completely down, theres hardly any suits 
 at all. 
  
  In the end i do not recommend this game for fable lovers. But for people who have never played 
 fable, you may like it.
  
  EDIT:
  
  The world is extremely small. And it said that the world was 10 times the size of fable? I disagree. 
 There are countless glitches in the game:
  
   Infinite experience glitch
   Infinite money glitch
   Interface glitches: I have to go through the game once with it constantly 
 asking me to go to a furnature shop to replace a non existant item.
   Your spouses divorce you constantly for no reason.
   Legendary Weapons are stupidly weak now 
 except for a few.
   Scene freeze glitch
   Some of the demon doors are just plain insane...
   The automatic fast travel doesn't work. 
 I liked adverturing the world of Fable and that is gone.
   Your dog is USELESS in battle.
   The game doesn't grow in diffucilty as the game goes on very much.
  
  More to come. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MBIvey
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 1, 2008 6:45 am PT
Review:  Like many others, I was stomping at the bit for the release of this game. The first Fable was a 
 highly addictive treasure just begging to be replayed. I could only hope the second effort would 
 be as good.
  I am here to say that this is both a good news / bad news effort.
  The size of the world is huge. The places to explore and raid are countless. The score is the best 
 music to be put into a game. The graphics are lush. The settings are highly detailed. The option 
 to play as male or female is long overdue. I like the ability for my wife or myself to jump in 
 and co-op play on the same unit even if our character's weapons are limited.
  However, the movements are a bit twitchy. I don't like the new magic system, and why oh why if 
 you have a world that beautiful, do the characters have to look like deformed blobs. Where are 
 the good looking NPC's? A heavily muscled character looks like his spine disappears, and has a 
 gut (abs?) that look ridiculous.
  Some of the jobs you can perform are mindless mini games that are nothing but a massive time suck 
 away from the actual game. Sadly, I seem to entering the end of the main quest and one again it 
 seems like it will be too short. Lionhead still needs to learn the delicate balance of substance 
 over style. The best games are not always the prettiest, but the ones that offer total immersion. 
 Games that make you look up at the clock and say to yourself, "Damn, I've played that long!"
  Games like Oblivion and Morrowind make the mainquest almost too long, but it both games, Fable 
 has made it too short. My best length game I think I have ever played, is both KOTR. There were 
 plenty of side quests, and the mainquest occupied a reasonable amount of time without becoming 
 redundant like many other games.
  I am enjoying this game, but like many others I want more. This is not a bad feeling to have, just 
 not one I want to carry for 3 or 4 years while I wait for Fable 3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: N3m3sis0V3RL0RD
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 31, 2008 10:16 pm PT
Review:  Okay, when I first got this game i was interested on how different it would be from the last Fable 
 and to be honest it is way better than the first game. There are so many things in the game that 
 make it a really great game to play. I really enjoyed the combat system, it had features that the 
 first game didn't have such as critical strikes and the mana doesn't run out. Another cool feature 
 the game had was you could get married and have a child, I thought that was pretty interesting. 
 One of the main things that made this game better than the first Fable was that it was longer by 
 a lot. If any of you know the type of gamer that I am, you'll know that i love long games. When 
 it came to the dog I have to admit that i kinda felt connected to the dog emotionally, I know it 
 sounds kinda pathetic but its true. I only had on problem with the game, Your character didn't 
 kill the main boss, that pissed me off. I had my gun pointed at him right towards his heart and 
 then BANG!!! Reaper shot him in the back. I was like WTF!!! In my personal opinion this game deserves 
 a 9.5 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Meteor7
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 31, 2008 8:07 pm PT
Review:  I love Fable and its on the top of my game list so yes I pre-orded the game. When i got it my excitement 
 level was top, I started the game as a male warrior and i start out as a child. Seems like Fable... 
 Grow older and plan to go out into the world doing lots of quests. Check! Ok furball friend... 
 yup! Females looking for some sexy hero to come by. Yup! The game feels like the first game, but 
 has some new pros and cons... 
  
  Pros: Getta choose between male/female, choose which type of sex to have protected/unprotected, 
 magic AOE, arena, good graphics, you get your own dog, own a house, new emote system, good story.
 
  
  Cons: repetitive, annoying glitches, not as many spells, no armor just clothes that look retarded, 
 no more bows : (, you always get fat for some reason i dont eat the meats or breads either, kids 
 are annoying, no epic end game battle, gay ending, and end game choice can suck!
  
  Good work but the game could be improved! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wheelman112
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 31, 2008 7:45 pm PT
Review:  It really is the best game of the year. Visual designing is outstanding, a tad cartooney but really, 
 you gives a s**t Combat is great, I love the aim your joystick towards the bad-guy comboes, and 
 when you hit a sweet move and it goes in slow-mo and he goes flying is just absolutely satisfying. 
 The good/bad paths are good, but just like Gamespot said, it's not well balanced, it seems easier 
 to be evil then good. The main story is short, but theres so much other stuff to do you WILL without 
 a doubt get caught up in something else or take a break and forget about it and do something different 
 because Fable 2 is just so full of people to talk to, monsters to fight, quests to complete, games 
 to play, money to make, and lots more to do its incredible. Controlling your Hero is awkward at 
 first, but after a little while you get used to them. Might seem mindy... but Peter Molyneux succeded 
 at emotion you feel in the game. Funny how I actually care about my dog. He's awesome. The game 
 is really humorous, I named my kid Earny, and named another one Steve, and another on Felix, and 
 another one Asian, and another Emo. Overall BUY THIS GAME 10.0!!!!!!!!!!! Gte Fallout 3 too! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xsubtownerx
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 31, 2008 7:08 pm PT
Review:  The Fable II world is definitely a unique one, allowing the player to truly feel like a hero, or 
 villain depending on the choices he will make through out the game. Being able to buy the whole 
 world is just one of the many ways to make your character loved or hated by everyone. The only 
 downfall of this game involving your character is the lack of abilities he or she can have in one 
 given trade. After a while you'll find yourself being proficient in everything rather than being 
 god-like in one thing, which sorta kills the whole role playing thing. But it's ok because in combat 
 you'll be able to do some pretty neat combos. The one button combat system works surprisingly well, 
 and it's very easy to use yet still requires some skill to master. 
  
  The Fable II story could have used a little more depth, and length but seeing as how many interesting 
 side quests or jobs you'll have available to you, the game will still remain intersting for literally 
 as long as you want. Even with the linear questing, the maps will still be big enough to make exploring 
 them fun and sometimes rewarding.
  
  The music and sound effects in this game are truly its strong point, including the well voiced 
 characters with their British accents. Brilliant realy, and quite unique seeing as how we don't 
 see that often in games. The graphics are also quite nice. Nothing groundbreaking however, but 
 still very nice with it's own unique artwork. The CGI cutscenes are also very impressive, and it's 
 a shame that there's only a few of them in the game.
  
  The game does have it's problems however. Long load times will eventually irritate you, and so 
 will the countless bugs and glitches. Not to mention the co-op part of this game is also semi-broken, 
 but seeing as how this game should be played in single player it shouldn't be counted as a major 
 problem. All in all this game is fun and I strongly recommend it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smerlus
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 31, 2008 6:08 pm PT
Review:  This can't be a game made by Lionhead Studios. It actually was released with just about everything 
 that they said would be in it and turned out to be a masterpiece. Equal parts Sweeny Todd and a 
 children's story, Fable 2 turned out to be all around beautiful and fun to play.
  
  Let me start with the dog. Yes the dog that Peter M. spent so much time talking about ends up being 
 one of the best and most useful NPC's in all of gaming. Not only was the animal fairly intelligent 
 and undeniably charming, it also added to the whole gameplay experience. Even though my character 
 was a foul, evil being, every time that poor dog got hurt I would rush to exact revenge and hurry 
 up and heal him. He's a great partner in combat, treasure hunting and just flirting with the ladies 
 or pissing people off.
  
  So already Fable 2 has something over Fable 1, a character I actually care about. It doubles the 
 effect by adding a sister that one can quickly admire and feel for. Although fate would cut that 
 relationship short, she turned out to be a better sister than the one in the original game. This 
 game even gives you a character to actually despise in the form of Lord Lucien. While the game 
 may not have the best story or the deepest characters, it is leagues better than what Fable 1 was 
 able to accomplish in character and plot and this quality trickles all the way down to the regular 
 townsfolk.
  
  The graphics have all the charm of an animated feature length film. Environments are beautifully 
 detailed and while they're not wide open expanses, they often don't exhibit an enclosed feeling. 
 Everything is very pleasing visually and areas flow into one another wonderfully. Later in the 
 game when the engine throws more creatures at you and powers get greater, I've noticed the engine 
 draws in some fog probably to keep frame rates smooth. This is especially apparent when casting 
 a spell. Also path finding seems to be a minor issue as characters and even the dog companion will 
 occasionally hit the side of a wall of object, stop in their tracks, turn around to readjust themselves 
 and try it again. In busy places or tight areas this can occur 2-3 times before the characters 
 correct themselves.
  
  Characters are human looking but quirky sort of like the type of caricatures in the movie The Incredibles. 
 While the NPC's are usually pretty vocal, it's easy to tell what they think of you simply by body 
 language and they way they react to your reputation or actions. The player characters change depending 
 on which stats are upgraded and the type of food eaten. Strength makes the character more muscular; 
 Skill makes the character taller and will give the character a mystical glow in his/her eyes. Eating 
 fatty food will cause the character to pack on some pounds and moral decisions will either ultimately 
 give you hero blonde hair and a halo or black hair and horns. While the male hero can look extremely 
 well done in later levels, the female character ends up looking disproportional. I saw my friend's 
 character and she had a small head on this mountainous, unfeminine looking frame.
  
  There are also more weapons and clothing options this time around and that's a great thing to see. 
 On top of the various clothing styles there are also dyes to find or purchase that can further 
 make the character more unique. Clothing doesn't offer a defense rating but can actually help offset 
 an evil character's appearance and make it so that not every one in every town is running scared.
 
  
  Most of the interactions with NPC's are done through gestures in Fable 2. There is enough options 
 starting out to convey the basics such as flirting, humorous, social, rude and scary, with the 
 rest becoming available through purchasing books or gaining renown. Any kind of reaction you want 
 to get from someone is found and there are even some surprise reactions when you mess up these 
 actions or try rude ones. Just like in real life, someone might not find your dancing funny but 
 once you fall on your rear end, then the laughs come. There's even the rare woman that gets turned 
 on by thrusting your pelvis in air and making guttural grunting sounds. It's an overall limited 
 way to interact with NPC's but it's often funny and works for this game.
  
  The ease of combat in Fable 1 was one of my main complaints and Fable 2 doesn't make it that much 
 more difficult. I think I actually might have been knocked out once or twice but thanks to resurrection 
 phials, there were no negative side effects. Combat is broken up into ranged, melee and magic and 
 each one is mapped to a different button on the controller. Attacking with melee rewards you with 
 melee orbs, ranger with ranger orbs and magic with magic orbs, killing a foe gets you general green 
 orbs. These orbs are then absorbed and can be spent upgrading that particular stat with general 
 orbs being able to be used like extras. It offers a bit of character decision for most of the game 
 but by the end my character was pretty equal across the board.
  
  A co-op portion was included in the game but it is fairly lackluster and nothing like what I expected. 
 Characters aren't imported into your friend's game and vice versa. The second player plays as a 
 generic avatar that is called a henchman. The reason for this in the game is that the main player 
 is supposed to be the true hero while the second player is just a lackey. It makes sense but it 
 doesn't make the co-op enjoyable. There's no control of the camera, a very small tether region 
 so the characters don't wander too far apart and the lackey can't go on rampages unless the main 
 character takes the safety off. Also it seems that some achievements turn into viral achievements 
 this way as people can simply join another person's game and unlock things that they haven't done. 
 It's a very lackluster portion of the game that I believe doesn't offer anything beneficial to 
 gameplay. 
  
  The main quest line is fairly short and could probably be finished in 7-8 hours or constant play 
 through and while this may upset people; playing the game in such a way is doing a great disservice 
 to the main joys of the game. Buying property, doing the side quests that are often as fun and 
 rewarding as the main quests, and just plain old finding a job and settling down seems to be the 
 real draw of this game. Also the side quests often introduce the main character with some quirky 
 characters and offer some laughs to counter the often darker main story.
  
  While the main protagonist is silent, the other characters in the game are voiced wonderfully throughout 
 the whole gameplay experience. There's simply not one week link in the bunch. The music is pretty 
 good and fit's the mood and atmosphere well when it pops up.
  
  Fable 2 is by far Peter Molyneaux's best work and a game that shouldn't be missed. It offers all 
 the promises that were made for Fable 1 and then some. If you're drawn into the world like I was, 
 you'll be playing Fable 2 well into the 40 hour mark. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: glendale1
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 31, 2008 5:20 pm PT
Review:  It is a good game. Maybe not great, but very good. The visuals are crisp, although a zoom function 
 would have improved it greatly. In looking at your own character, you can't zoom in or out. Camera 
 movement is limited. Some of the good things about the first Fable are gone. Target lock on is 
 clumsy and inaccurate. The new magic system is fairly flawed. This makes magic a test of dexterity 
 and timing more akin to JRPG's than regular RPG's. The other battle aspects are pretty sweet though. 
 Especially the sub-targeting capabilities of ranged weapons. The soundtrack is pretty and familiar 
 from the first Fable. Dialog is missing, just like in the first Fable. It is a shame not to be 
 able see the characters close up and engage them in conversation as when you go to look at them 
 in first person, you can see they are beautifully rendered. Although most of them are ugly. Must 
 be a British thang. It is actually hard to want to marry any of the fat, dumpy women or the dirty, 
 old, or scraggly men. Maybe it comes from being born and raised in the US, but I always expect 
 the general public to be more attractive than in this series. At least in this outing the gay men 
 are not mincing lisping lilting fops, like they were in the first Fable. The quests are fairly 
 top notch. Most seemed a little too easy, but I tend to over level my character before tackling 
 the good stuff, so it may just be me. The story is nicely done and with enough twists to keep you 
 engaged 'til the end. All and all, a very solid enterprise. I bought the game and I am not sorry 
 although Lionhead did manage it's usual "bait and switch" minor foul-ups routine after all the 
 developer's efforts to avoid that kind of press this time around. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GRIMSAGE
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 31, 2008 4:41 pm PT
Review:  I have spent about 30-40 hours playing Fable 2 and have enjoyed every minute of it. Graphically 
 it is very good even though there are some minor graphical glitches. The sound is superb and the 
 musical score is on par with the last Fable game. The game play has been improved with better controls 
 and even better spells. Being a mage is much more satisfying in this Fable than the last one. The 
 combat is a bit easier this go around than the last one I do have to admit. Also I liked how now 
 you don't scar unless you die. Big improvement if you want to be an attractive character. Now as 
 for the dog I did not think I was going to get attached but by the end I was very attached to the 
 little guy. He is a good emotional tie into the game. Also this game improves on the affects your 
 choices make on the world. They are more permanent, and noticeable. For anyone who owns an XBox 
 this is worth a playing through. Improves on the first game in every way. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: amirsafar
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 31, 2008 4:34 pm PT
Review:  Right, I'll break it up into sections:
  
  1) Single Player Story- The single player story is awesome. There is just so much to do, i love 
 it. The story is great and keeps you interested all the time. The main quests arent all though, 
 there are many side quests and many places to explore. So much to do, such as explore, work, marry, 
 etc Overall, 10 /10
  
  2) Multiplayer-None, but thats not a bad thing, as the SP is one of the best ive played.
  
 
  3) Graphics- Pretty good graphics on 360 ,havent notice any real frame rate issues. The water 
 is very good, and some of the views are jaw dropping 8.5/10
  
  4) Sound- The sound is pretty good. I mean the music gets more intense whilst in a fight, and the 
 voice acting is pretty darn amazing. Guns sound good and the water sounds good too. 9/ 10
  
  5) Gameplay- I think the controls are perfect. The game plays out very nicely. Interacting is 
 fun and easily done. Fighting enemies is actually really fun. You get one melee weapon, a ranged 
 one and magic. I prefer to use the melee and some shooting, but sometimes magic is very useful 
 9.5/10
  
  6) Achievements- For those who are interested the achievements are pretty good, and require you 
 to play the game multiple times to get the different endings. But they are fun to get.
  
  Overall, the game is defo a buy. You can replay it many times and you wont get bored of it, it has 
 an amazing single player expericance that no one should miss out on. It took me about 20 hours to 
 complete my first playthough so the game is lengthy.. Overall score, 9.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 110million
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 31, 2008 1:48 pm PT
Review:  Fable 2 starts off with a bang, and while it doesn't deliver the same experience all the way through, 
 its still very much worth a play. 
  
  Graphically Fable 2 is mostly impressive, the enviornments look great in most situations, but the 
 NPCs do not fair the same way, though considering how many of them there are, it can be overlooked. 
 The lighting is a hit and miss too, it looks beautiful in some places, but blinding in others. 
 Not the game's best strength, but still well done.
  
  The sound is somewhat disappointing, the sound effects are realistic, and a lot of the Fable 1 
 charm is there in the music, but it doesn't seem nearly as common. It plays quietly in some places, 
 and just doesn't seem to exist to the same extent as before. Still, when there is music, it is 
 of excellent quality.
  
  The gameplay is a lot of hit and miss, on one hand, the one button combat I found to work exceptionally 
 well, while not really the same as Devil May Cry, the basic idea of one button for sword, gun, 
 and special attack is there. The problem that arises is that its much, much too easy, in my entire 
 30 hour play through, I did not die a single time. Its fun, but not that rewarding due to how easy 
 the game is.
  
  The NPC interaction is good to the point where they will talk to you about your relevant accomplishments, 
 about how good/evil, rich/poor, corrupt/pure you are, but there are countless flaws. On one hand, 
 someone can be scared of you half way through a conversation, and praise you in the next statement, 
 then go on mention of a local sale at a shop, then go on to be scared of how you murdered someone 
 again, it just feels broken at times, though walking around having them praise you is pretty nice, 
 which leads me to my not so nice next point. 
  
  The love/relationship system, is awful. Simply performing a few acts in town, is enough to make 
 literally everyone fall in love with you, even though there are half a dozen load screens on how 
 to get someone to love you, and about a dozen books, its much much too easy. The other problem 
 is that they won't stop following you around, they'll walk into your house even after your married, 
 and just bother you all the time, it gets incredibly annoying when your just stopping by in a town 
 to greet your wife or even try to shop, they'll fill up the door way and make it difficult to leave 
 some stores and such, my solution was to make a big white heart max, and not have someone love 
 you until you either take them somewhere they want, or provide them with a gift. That would avoid 
 a lot of this headache, also I had my wife leave me when I was paying 5x the expected allowance, 
 and gave her and my kid about a dozen gifts each, I was away for a bit for some story quest and 
 they just left, good riddance. the only part of the game that really bothered me, other then how 
 pointless the 50 silver-key chest is. 
  
  The game provides good value, the main story is only about 10 hours, not much longer then the first 
 game, but the side-quests are a lot better this time, like I said, I put in about 30 hours into 
 it, the side quests are very worthwhile plus the gargoyle and silver-keys to find (oh god, those 
 silver keys, and their pointless end-reward) . Much better then the pointless mostly escort side-quests 
 from the original.
  
  There is a lot to the game, making it easily worth a purchase, the gripes I had with it can be 
 mostly overlooked when looking at it as a whole. While it starts with a bang and ends with a whimper, 
 we can probably expect a sequel. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AftershockAgain
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 31, 2008 11:20 am PT
Review:  This is a game that sucks you into its world, which surprised me. The graphics remind me of a new-gen 
 Legend of Zelda, I really only like more reallistic graphics but I thought they fit the game perfect. 
 One thing that lets you down is that the story doesnt change if your good or evil, though people 
 think about you differently the story over all doesnt change. The combat is fun once you have alot 
 of experiance and good weapons. It should be noted that this is more of a game for people from 
 the age of 16 and up, it isnt gory but it does have things in it thatll show why its a M rated 
 game.
  
  Learning curve: about a half-hour
  Graphics:8.5
  Sound:9.0
  Fun Factor:9.0
  The Hype:7.0
  Over All:8.5
  
  This my first review so be gentle. Also if anyone has any questions 
 on this game or on my review then feel free to send me a message or two. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Neoledd
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 31, 2008 9:54 am PT
Review:  I wont disagree with the main complaints about fable. Maybe I have a bias opinion because Ive always 
 loved the game. The short of it is that everyone could have beat it in less than a day. The loading 
 times will be BETTER when the new dashboard comes out (hence why they added the feature to copy 
 the game to the hard drive.) Personally i didnt mind the load times, but i remember games like 
 elder scrolls, Battlefield 2 (crappy cpu at the time) , and an endless list of other games that 
 I had to wait and could watch my dog age until they were ready. It does disappoint me on some level. 
 The main story is short like the first.. so doing secondary quests is a must. There is alot to do 
 on the side, which i enjoy most. My synopsis of the game can be described very simply: The game 
 just came out, I consider it a base. Lionhead has plans in the works for downloadable content. 
 So the game has potentially no limits. It could be pricey, but i imagine they will expand every 
 aspect of the game in time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RELL1K
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 31, 2008 9:19 am PT
Review:  The game starts you off as a child doing missions in order to acquire enough gold to progress the 
 story. When I first saw the town I was amazed at how great it looked and how great the character 
 models where. One thing I have alway enjoyed about the Fable series is how great the artwork and 
 animations are.
  
  Once you reach your objective as a child you are thrust into a very emotional cutscene which will 
 progress you into adulthood which is where the game begins to take shape as you learn how to use 
 magic and you are able to earn more gold and experience from fighting. 
  
  The controls are fairly easy in this game and with experience you can purchase upgrades which in 
 turn teach you / unlock new things which you can use in battle like combo attacks or better aiming. 
 I find the way that they incorporate these is great as it makes it easy to attack with a melee 
 attack switch to a ranged weapon attack and then perform a magic attack. As you can imagine this 
 makes for some great animations and gives you the impression that your hero is a powerful and skilled 
 one. Needless to say the fighting is great in this game and the magic and ranged attacks keep this 
 game from being a hack and slash button masher. 
  
  Storywise this game had a good story but I feel that there could have been more character interaction. 
 I wish that this game would have incorporated a bit more decision making to make you feel a bit 
 more involved in the story. There are a few choices in the game that you make which can greatly 
 alter the environments. The way that this works is that there are two instances in which the story 
 is fast forwarded. What I mean by this is that when the child portion of the game is complete the 
 game starts up, with you 10 years in the future. Any decisions that you made as a child would manifest 
 themselves in the future.
  
  When you are an adult the game poses a similar scenario which further advances you in time. I think 
 that there should have been more micro decisions that could have been made since this would have 
 been an opportunity for the game developers to really make a more emotional and memorable experience. 
 Overall the story was good and could have had a little more depth but the fighting and magic as 
 well as the explorable environments make this game a lot of fun. Toss in the ability to attack 
 town people and you have yourself a winner. If you like Fable 2 or are just looking for a different 
 kind of game then this is a good place to start.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Robeau-Unit
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 31, 2008 8:53 am PT
Review:  I'm not going to get into an all around review of Fable 2. To me Fable is fun from a character 
 building aspect and that's about it. My main problem with Fable 2 as with Fable 1 is the loading 
 times. Fable tries so hard to make you believe you are just another person in a lush active world. 
 The problem is there is no world, just stages with loading times in between. You can run no further 
 than 1 min without have to wait 20 sec. for the next stage to load. Talk about lame, it's like 
 trying to watch the grand finally of a reality show (5 minutes of show 5 minutes of commercials.) 
 Another thing that bothers me is that the whole game centers around how you treat people, yet there 
 is no incentive for me to help anyone unless it benefits me. How about characters with dialogue 
 that I could actually want to befriend. Every person in Fable 2 is a joke. "Hi I'm a sheriff so 
 be good." "Hi I'm a town singer would you like to hear a song." "Arggh I'm a bandit so I'm going 
 to attack you." You get the point. It's just to black and white for my taste. But who doesn't love 
 building an insanely powerful character? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MagnusTW
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 14, 2008 6:32 am PT
Review:  Fable II is a really enjoyable game, and it's important to emphasize that: it's enjoyable. It's 
 not challenging, it's not innovative (or at least not incredibly so) , and it's not world-changing. 
 But it is enjoyable. It's really quite outstanding. No other game I've played has made me feel 
 like, well, such a hero. The battle is simple but fun and rewarding; the society is somewhat shallow 
 but very vibrant and deceptively busy; and the world is jaw-droppingly beautiful, and every inch 
 of it is a pleasure to explore. This is an adventure game at its heart, and if you play it under 
 that assumption, you will absolutely love it. The story is not bad, the graphics are good (and 
 the art direction overall is astounding) , and, quite honestly, it's some of the most fun I've ever 
 had playing a game. It's not revolutionary... or is it? Maybe it is, especially since games try 
 so hard today to "redefine the genre" with every game that comes out. Well, then, Fable II is revolutionary 
 insofar as it's all about having fun - pure and simple. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: th3warr1or
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 4, 2008 7:42 am PT
Review:  Although not many games have the ability to make you to want to play it over and over again, Fable 
 II does just that. It has so many morphing options that it is not possible to actually play the 
 same game twice. Fable II is based on a fantasy era where guns have just been invented. While the 
 old feel of Bows and armor from Fable and Fable TLC has been removed, the new combat system is 
 effective but not exactly preferable. 
  
  I strongly disagree with Gamespot's review regarding the Characters and story of Fable II lacking 
 depth. In my honest opinion, Fable II doesn't have a SPECTACULAR story, but it is nowhere lacking 
 depth or mediocre. As for the characters, many of the characters are bursting with their own personality, 
 and have their own character, with some making you enjoy their company while others make you occasionally 
 decapitate them due to their pompous mannerisms. 
  
  The graphics are top-par and beautifully rendered. Although lag and framerate dropping is a SEVERE 
 issue at certain points in the game, it is manageable. Unfortunately, the same cannot be said for 
 the numerous glitches and bugs which may corrupt the save. Many methods to earn unfair money have 
 also been found, and even without using them, Money is extremely easy to be earned and becoming 
 a millionaire in a day is no difficult feat. 
  
  Fable II has also taken Role-playing Games to the next level with its revolutionary dog. Despite 
 falling short of the mark promised by Peter Molyneux, and lacking many of the features shown, the 
 Dog and Breadcrumb-trail route successfully leads you to the location of the current objective 
 and/or quest replacing the Minimap marvelously. This is lucky as the Map from the "Pause" Menu 
 is.. well, safe to say USELESS. It shows ABSOLUTELY nothing of importance.
  
  It is truly unfortunate that such an amazing game had to be released with so many gamebreaking 
 glitches and bugs. However, that is no reason to avoid playing this game. Evidence of Lionhead 
 Studios hardwork and effort into this game is abundantly shown. 
  
  If you person who enjoys a beautiful and memorable experience with one of the best RPG's around 
 today, or simply wish to be introduced to this genre, Fable II will not disappoint. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dreamsteel
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 31, 2008 8:14 am PT
Review:  Ok Peter, we gave you another chance to prove your vision. You've proven once again that you can 
 deliver a decent RPG with a high level of character customization but that's about it, no dynamic 
 evolving character and world. 
  
  Talk about a let-down. This game is altogether far too easy in every respect. There really isn't 
 any decent character evolution outside the physical changes that take place for upgrading certain 
 attributes. The extremes of good and evil offer a very bland look not even as good as the first 
 Fable. 
  
  Every aspect from combat, to making money, to convincing townsfolk to love you is just far too 
 easy. The game is full of nice details that you never need to use such as gift-giving, purchasing 
 nicer furniture to upgrade houses that you own, taking people on dates to win their affection, 
 etc. Do a dance a few times (only ONE dance available!) and a few arm pumps or manly poses and 
 presto!, the entire town wants to marry you! Invest in some real estate (EVERYTHING is for sale 
 in this game!) and before you know it you're SWIMMING in money, virtually devaluing high level 
 weapons, etc. 
  
  The world is beautiful and full of so much promise that just doesn't deliver. Before the release 
 we were shown some great concept art for characters but it seems as though they decided to go with 
 repeating character models for townsfolk. With all the available outfits you'd think they could 
 at least program some randomly generated outfits for NPC's just to make the world feel more real! 
 The game seems to be full of details like this that could have easily been done a different way 
 with greatly improved results. This is it for you Peter, you have successfully fooled me twice. 
 Shame on me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: saltfordstar
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 31, 2008 6:19 am PT
Review:  You know that games from Lionhead Studios are usually built up on the biggest amount of hype known 
 to man.
  
  Under this heavy burden (think Too Human people) Fable 2 was given too us, fortunately it has done 
 a rather nice job.
  
  The graphics are solid (especially the sun and moon effects) and the world you live in feels real 
 and actually 'lived in' and this causes problems in two ways, Firstly it means getting items and 
 gold is all but pointless as you earn money trough rent and shops even when you are not playing 
 the game so getting that amazing sword you always wanted is no real achievement and because, you 
 character cannot speak and you have no real dialogue with any of the NPC or your wife/husband if 
 you take one all character feel very one dimensional.
  
  You do however form a bond with your dog who is a help to you in finding treasure and fighting 
 foes, and you tend to miss him if he wanders off on another route to you, many times in the game 
 I waited for my dog to catch up rather than go on without him
  
  Moral choices are also a key part of the game and it is amazing to see how these can change things, 
 not only your characters appearance (and that of your dogs) but also all areas of the map that 
 change due to a choice of yours. This definitely makes you think about all choices you make and 
 this should be a welcome addition to any RPG in the future.
  
  Overall Fable 2 is a step in the right direction and if improvements are made in character dialogue 
 and relationships within the world than Fable 3 could be a great game.
  
  as it is Fable 2 is a grate game and should be played if you have a Xbox360, if nothing else for 
 playing a game that tries to push the boundaries of RPG gaming.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mmielnik
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 31, 2008 3:04 am PT
Review:  I was one of those people who thought Lionhead would pull it off. Unfortunately they just couldn't 
 do it. The one shinning light in the darkness that is Fable 2 is knowing that Fable 2 is everything 
 we were promised Fable 1 would be. Too bad its 3 years late to the party. Without knowing what 
 we were promised and without the Fable name stamped on the box and the disc this is a decent game. 
 Fable 2 seems closer to a Hack 'n Slash type game rather than an RPG. You cant change your appearance 
 other than your hair, hair color and tattoos. Spell casting and selection is terrible, there are 
 no combos like in Fable 1 and this game is way to easy. I have never been knocked out in Fable 
 2 and never had to use a resurrection vial. You only use 3 buttons to fight which are a weapon 
 slash, gun shot, and spell. To wrap it up this isnt Fable 2, this is Fable 1.5. I guess we have 
 to wait another 3 years until we get to play what Fable 2 was supposed to be. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: whitehawk_77
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 31, 2008 1:34 am PT
Review:  Before Fable came out there so much hype and expectation that it is no surprise it did not live 
 up to it all but in the end it still was a really great game. Fable 2 on the other hand is severely 
 worse than Fable. When you start the game it seems fine but continually will get worse as you go 
 along. Your character looks like a gigantic douche and if you chose to play a woman as she gains 
 experience she will look more and more like a man. There is no armour in Fable 2, and the limited 
 amount of attire is plagued with ugly clothing that no one wants to wear, and you have even less 
 choices as a woman. The battle system is also very flawed as you level up. To start with the magic 
 is worse than the magic in Fable and as you progress through the game it only worsens. How it works 
 is each spell has five levels, but as you gain these levels the spell only gets stronger if you 
 charge it up. Towards the middle of the game even a maxed charge won't kill all your enemies and 
 every level below max is pretty much useless. In the game they tell you that you wont be interrupted 
 when charging your spell but this only works if you are in the middle of charging up your spell, 
 if you are trying to start charging and someone hits you it will cancel. Now if you do actually 
 get your spell going there is a good chance you will be dead before you reach max charge even if 
 you have maxed out Toughness. This because the game becomes unbalanced towards the end. You could 
 have a mastered character with every spell and skill at max and still get your ass handed to you 
 walking through a forest when at that point you should be able to press one button to kill any 
 mass of random baddies that might assault you. The sword fighting is a little different than Fable 
 but pretty much all melee weapons are garbage. Most of the unique weapons are worse than the boring 
 master weapons you can buy at the local blacksmith. Ranged combat however is something they greatly 
 improved upon, though it still has some bugs that will frustrate you from time to time. I found 
 that each time I play the game my weapon of choice is my gun. Not because i like guns, I actually 
 am against guns in fantasy games, but the gun if used right seems to be the only decent weapon. 
 Unfortunately when you are surrounded by enemies you you cant zoom in so for some reason your gun 
 is weaker and you have to rely on the broken, withered magic system. Another thing they promised 
 us about Fable 2 was that the story would be more developed. The story seems like something they 
 slapped together the morning of the release, it is in a word pathetic. You only need to go to any 
 Fable 2 forum to see the plethora of glitches still in the game. The game's multiplayer is also 
 a ghost of what it should be and is more work than fun. This game could have been 100 times more 
 fun even if they left it exactly like Fable but in a new time and with a dog. If Fable 2 had come 
 out first I dont think anyone would have gave its sequel any thought. All in all this game is a 
 giant disappointment but still manages to entertain you for one go around. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Teh_AnimaL
Rating: 6
Date: Oct 31, 2008 1:09 am PT
Review:  So I'm usually complaining about Gamespot giving games too low of a rating, this time around it's 
 too high.
  
  I've wanted this game more than any others for a looong time. And when I bought it at it's release 
 I really tried to love it. But it was just a total let down.
  
  The combat is repetitive, button mashing.. even if you do mix it up with some spells and guns along 
 with swordplay. On top of that trying to change you spells is a pain when you're in a fight. You 
 have to pause the game (which isn't a lag free menu mind you) and go through the list.
  Takes a good minute in a half out of your time. And lastly the hairstyles, clothing, and facial 
 hair are far too few. And all bland and boring, most don't even fit well on your character.
  
  The main story is less than 10hrs ? Come on now, they were making this thing for 4 yrs and 
 they give us a game with a terribly short story line, pointless side quests, and boring characters. 
 You feel no attachment to anything in Albion.
  
  It basically leads into PM lying about half the stuff that were supposed to be in the game again. 
 For Fable 3 (if there is going to be a 3rd) I'm going to stay away from the hype and Peter Molyneux 
 altogether so I have nothing to be disappointed about. That might have made this a better game.
 
  
  That's all I'll get into but this game is definitely a rent not a buy. I regret buying it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Troika1
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 30, 2008 7:57 pm PT
Review:  I'm on my second play-through and have completed most every quest in the game. 
  
  PROS:
  Fable 2 is well constructed & very pretty. The main story line is compelling and the side quests 
 are worth doing. Lots of humor in the game with an innovative approach to interacting with and 
 effecting society and the NPCs. 
  
  The gargoyles offered a very entertaining side challenge mainly due to their hilarious insults. 
 
  
  I've seen the magic system criticized as too hard to use; saying the higher level spells weren't 
 practical for use during combat. I found the opposite to be true; if you use the slow time spell 
 in conjunction with high level attach spells you'll find the magic system almost too effective. 
 
  
  The voice acting is excellent. 
  
  The world is the right size; Oblivion was almost too big with too many repetitive areas and quests. 
 Fable 2's scale is better and the quests aren't as repetitive.
  
  You can move the story line as fast or as slowly as you like. 
  
  The combat system in general 
 is darn good. I didn't think so at first, but once I started being creative in battle I had a lot 
 of fun. Unfortunately, you don't have to be creative to be effective... it's just more fun when 
 you are. 
  
  The "jobs" in the game are creative and great sources of income early on. It's also great you don't 
 have to keep going back to the jobs to make money as it would become boring, annoying, and tedious 
 if you had to keep repeating them.
  
  CONS:
  Money, skill development, and weaponry are easily acquired making the game very easy. You can max 
 out your character quickly with skill potions, which makes you take your awesome killing ability 
 for granted. 
  
  I died only once my first time through. Even though the re-animate potions saved me a few other 
 times I was defeated only 4 or 5 times in total. 
  
  Enemy AI is weak; most enemies are pretty easily killed as one can imagine from the comment above. 
 Also, random encounter enemies are always in the same places... no surprises. 
  
  Your character never talks... 
  
  Not enough clothing/appearence options. It would have been 
 great to have a character editor like Mass Effect's. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xprogamer
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 30, 2008 7:46 pm PT
Review:  i got this game on the first day i was waiting for 2 years till his game come out it start off 
 ok and got better till you get to the last boss it was lame it was very easy and boring jack of 
 blades was a better boss and dragon jack of blades was fun and sick
  Good: combat is awesome i like the GUN AND THE SWORD AND THE MAGE IS SICK THE TOWN FEEL REAL AT 
 TIME THE GAME LOOK AWESOME CHOOSE TO B GOOD OR BAD I CAN HAVE A DOG HAVE A KID AND MONEY MAking 
 is easy.
  BAD: TOWN PEOPLE ALWAY FOOLOW U IF U R GOOD IT A BUG AT TIME THE DOG CAN B DUMB AT TIME NO fliping 
 AMOUR WHAT THE DEAL WITH THAT, THAT GOT ME MAD LOL and it to short and the last boss is the worst 
 boss in all time and the easyest.
  overall i like it but they should put more time in this game it the there so much more what this 
 game can do. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PhantomPhoot
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 30, 2008 7:44 pm PT
Review:  Quite honestly when I bought this game I had no idea what to expect. I hadn't played the first 
 Fable. I heard that although it was a great game, it was missing some features that were promised. 
 I went in knowing that whatever problems those were, this game fixed them. I was right.
  
  GRAPHICS: The artistic value of this game is high, although technically it isn't the greatest game 
 out there. While the environments are big and beautiful, some of the villagers you find look a 
 bit repetitive (luckily they all have they're own personalities) . You'd have to zoom in (which 
 isn't done very well) in order to see they're faces clearly, especially on low-def televisions.
 
  
  SOUND: The sound is pretty awesome. The voice-work is top notch, and you'll fall in love with all 
 of the variations of the British accent you'll hear. The music is great and always compliments 
 whatever environment you're in and the situation you face.
  
  GAMEPLAY: The gameplay is where this game shines since there' just so much to talk about.
  
 
  Doggy :) : Yup, you get a doggie. You can't choose the type of dog that you want and he's the only 
 dog in all of Albion, but he's yours. He proves useful and can attack fallen enemies, locate dig 
 spots and treasures, and even impress people.
  
  Combat: You'll grow to love the simplistic yet immersive combat system, which has you easily disposing 
 of foes whether by sword, gun, or magic. While the selection isn't as great as it could have been, 
 there are still excellent combinations for whatever fighting style you prefer. After you defeat 
 enemies, the experience falls out in the form of visible orbs that you simply draw into you. This 
 allows you to customize and save up for those abilities that you want, such as a high dexterity 
 or the ability to zoom in with your gun.
  
  People: I'm talking about the people roaming about the city. Each and every one has their own preferences 
 in mind. You can interact with them simply by opening your bag of expressions. If you higlight 
 them and press Y you can see their list of preferences. From likes and dislikes to sexual orientation, 
 you get to see whether the person is your type or not and act accordingly. The might even give 
 you a gift, depending on how they think of you. Of course, this being a Mature rated game, feel 
 free to kill anyone you like! Just make sure you're willing to sacrifice the morality for it. Also, 
 there are plenty of whores and loose citizens for you to take to bed wink wink nudge nudge.
  
  Real Estate: All over Albion there are properties you can own by paying the price outside the 
 door. This proves useful, especially since when you own a business or rent out a house, you will 
 gain gold every five minutes of real time, even when the game is off. The better the property, 
 the higher the gold. (However when you do turn off the game, don't expect to recieve 1,000,000 
 gold when you turn it on after a week, it will reach a maximum.) This is perfectly balanced and 
 you'll always get the money you deserve.
  
  Family Life: Interacting with people enough and building up your renown will get more people to 
 fall in love with you. When they have a RED heart above their head it means that they are ready 
 to be married. Give them a ring and take them to one of your houses (you need a house in order 
 to marry, so think carefully before you propose to them) . Once your married and moving into your 
 house, you can then have children (assuming you're a heterosexual couple) . Your family can give 
 you gifts periodically, but it's up to you to keep them happy by setting a set amount of gold to 
 be deducted in order to support them. While it's wierd how your spouse makes no income (even if 
 you marry a trader or a shopkeeper) it still offers a realm of depth in the game.
  
  STORY: Disappointing. The story serves no purpose in the game except to build up your renown or 
 morality. The characters lack any real depth and development and you might even grow to hate them. 
 Have no fear, the storyline is short and relatively easy in comparison to other RPG's. The beginning 
 of the story does a nice job of setting up your story, but the rest takes a sharp nosedive. Don't 
 play this game for the story, play it for everything else, such as the wealth of quests and the 
 abundance of things to do.
  
  OVERALL: 9/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: briph24
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 30, 2008 7:38 pm PT
Review:  When I spent my first hour playing this game, I was some what disappointed. I can't really explain 
 why, but It just felt like it was lacking something... Well, after I got through the level where 
 you battle the balverines I really started to get addicted and couldn't put this game down.
  
  Pros:
  Great graphics and atmosphere. Great sound. The combat is quick and fun. Having guns 
 is a BIG plus. The story actually gets pretty darn good after about 3 hours of play.
  
  Cons:
  Bad map, you cant zoom in or view a big picture of the region you are in. There is no 
 armor, and the weapons and cloths are somewhat limited in variety. 
  
  Overall:
  The game brings great graphics, great environment setting, great sound, and great combat all together 
 to make a GREAT game.
  
  Dont let the minor flaws from this game keep you from buying it. I think it was definitely underrated 
 by Gamespot. YOU WILL LOVE THIS GAME. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lucky326
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 30, 2008 7:10 pm PT
Review:  Fable 2 is an RPG that takes a lot of its cultural setting from Britain.
  
  First off there was the addition of a Dog. The Dog is really useful in 3 ways. It can look for 
 Dig Spots, Find Treasure and Attack enemies that have been knocked to the floor. While it may seem 
 to be a minor addition to the game it actually is encorperated quite well. The dog however is required 
 for some quests and while occasionally it can be an annoyance as it disappears every now it is 
 a feature that must be used.
  
  The economy had a completely overhaul. You can now buy virtually every building in the game. Some 
 have quests attached to them and others have secrets buried within them for you too find. There 
 are 2 types of bullding's that can be bought and those are Shop's and Houses. the shops you buy 
 give you some income every 5 minutes and provide you with a discount. With houses you can either 
 live in them yourself, many provide bonues for living in them such as higher health. Or you can 
 rent them out to increase your income. The economy itself now goes through Boom and Bust. Doing 
 Jobs and buying things from towns boost the economy while commiting crime lower's the economy in 
 the area. However I feel making money is challanging at first but after a couple of hours I had 
 an income that meant I was able to buy a new building every half hour which added to my income 
 speeding up the process.
  
  The storyline is set 500 years after Fable 1 and many things have now changed and the most obvious 
 one is the introduction of fire arms to the world of Albion. They are not the most advanced fire 
 arms in existance but they are not too much stronger than Bows and Crossbows in Fable 1. The storyline 
 has 5 main characters all of who I felt had strong personalities and excellent voice actor's. There 
 are also 2 time skips where the game advances 10 years which I felt was done well. Especially when 
 you saw the changes that had happened to the world in your absence. However the ending had much 
 to be desired. There were 3 endings and only one of them left you in a position where if you hadn't 
 already you could finish all the sidequests and really the game is broken unless you chose the 
 right option.
  
  The sidequests themselves are well designed and some are challanging although some are quite easy. 
 They are all well written and many of them are quite humerous. The NPC's are quite diverse and 
 I believe the voice acting here was excellent quality. Also you can chose you have a Wife and Child. 
 I personally felt the additoin of a family underwhelming. There was really no value added with 
 this feature at all. The Map however I felt was too small and you sometimes get lost at times with 
 the lack of a mini-map if you are playing a more sandbox game without the quest indicator.
  
  And there was alignment. Good-Evil. Pure-Corrupt Attractive-Ugly. All 3 are affected by your 
 choices. The clothes you wear, some of the jobs you take part in and some of the decisions of your 
 quests. As they all move they affect the looks of your character with additions such as a Halo, 
 Horns or pale skin. How you look also affects all the people around you. They can fear you, hate 
 you or love you depending on these 3 alignments. However I felt the system was exactly the same 
 as the original and wasn't truely changed enough to take it past it's predeccesor.
  
  And lastly there was the Co-op. There are 2 types of co-op. Couch Co-op or Live co-op. Couch is 
 2 players from the same console and Live is 2 players across Xbox Live. They both work almost exactly 
 the same. One player is there chosen hero while the other is a generic henchmen with little customisation 
 options. The host chooses how Experience and Gold is shared. There is only one camera instead of 
 2. For Live there really should be 2 camera's but instead there isn't which can lead to your view 
 being blocked and overall have less freedom as with a one player game. There are still many bugs 
 such as character wipes happening. I felt the online really was a huge disappointment. It feels 
 tacted on above all and I really felt in the end it added absolutely nothing to the gameplay experience.
 
  
  However despite it's many faults the outstanding gameplay really pulls you in and you can quickly 
 start playing at 5pm and look to see it at 2am. The addictive gameplay above all is really what 
 sets it apart as it has taken most of the idea's of Fable 1 and vastly improved them and added 
 many new idea's that work perfectly. I feel an expansion pack similar to Fable: The Lost Chapters 
 is a must as there are many improvements that could yet be added. Also the Island to the west in 
 the original game is unaccesible and that needs changing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PurelogicsBack
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 11, 2009 2:44 am PT
Review:  When I first played The original Fable game (Fable: TLC) I thought it was an OK game but you aged 
 too quickly and it went to fast. IF you compare all the features of the original game, and remove 
 the bugs, add better stuff, stronger enemies, etc. Then you got Fable 2. I love this game I played 
 this game till 2 am and got 3 hours of sleep for college the next day. 
  
  If you are going to buy this game, I highly recommend playing Fable 1 first, cuz a lot of stuff 
 is shown from that game and can be confusing unless you know the story line from Fable: TLC. 
  
  I was very disappointed that they didn't shown the sex scene when getting freaky in bed. This 
 game is more like a Teen game without it.
  
  Compared to Fable 2 I appreciate they put more bosses in than the first game. I was very pissed 
 that there was limited clothing to choose from, and no mail or plate.
  
  New potions can make it easier, gold is somewhat easy to obtain through jobs. And my opinion, wait 
 till the half way point of game to get married. Marriage is frekin expensive. But, whatever.
  
  All, and all. I give Fable 2 a thumbs up.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mafia217
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 30, 2008 4:27 pm PT
Review:  Taking after it's successor Fable... Fable 2 had risen with new innovative system and storyline. 
 I will explain each part of this game more in details.
  
  Graphics: The graphics in this game are simply well done and artistic too. Everywhere you go, it 
 leaves you in a state of awe. Everything from towns to ruins to caves, had been made very well 
 done. 
  
  Music: The music in Fable 2 had gone to a whole new level. It's orchestrated scripts for each area 
 were well made and really delivered a true feeling of one being there and know it's settings. From 
 happy states to dark, scary tense moments, the music made really did it's job in this game. 
  
  Gameplay: The gameplay in Fable 2 is simply just right, it's not too difficult nor too right. 
 Some people might argue with me in this one. The combat system here, is quite simple. It's made 
 of three things. Melee, range and Magic. With melee you press the X button, you hold said button 
 to block or press said button at the right time an enemy attacks to counter it. Also the Flourishing 
 moves leave devastating effects to enemies. The Range system is like melee, quite simple too. Press 
 Y quick to shoot without aiming. Hold said button to aim, leaving it longer will zoom you in and 
 holding said button while pressing LT will give you choices to aim at the different parts of the 
 body. Magic also is simple, though it is very devastating. Pressing the B button will let you perform 
 a magic quickly, holding said button will let you perform an even grater magic with more damage 
 in a more amplified area. Theres a total of 5 ranks for each magic, so you know where I'm going 
 with this. 
  
  Emotions/Characters: The characters in Fable 2 were made really well. They blend with the environment 
 and such. Like in Fable, Fable 2 you have expressions that either scare the people of Albion or 
 fall in love with you, or simply just praise you. depending on what you do, it may affect your 
 appereance and such.
  
  Alignment/Morality: In Fable 2 it not only has an alignment chart that tells you if you are evil 
 of god, but there's a new chart that tells you whether you are corrupt or pure. With this new system, 
 your appeareance might change further, from looking totally like a demon to an angelic warrior 
 of justice.
  
  Family: Of course, on of the main reasons people love Fable is because of the family. Having a 
 wife and raising a kid. It's really good especially if you want to have that feeling of fatherhood/motherhood. 
 Your kid's likings and appeareance depends on yourt alignment. If you are evil, your kid would 
 be evil/aggressive, on the contrary he/she would be a good little boy/girl.
  
  Replay Value: Another important topic which players look up more into. Whether they will enjoy 
 it again and again and again, enough to enjoy it for at least a month or less. This game has a 
 good replay value, not a HUGE like some others, but it is decent enought for one to start another 
 character. I have so far two characters, one evil male and a good female. This is enough for me 
 to say that once I'm done with the female, I really finished Fable 2.
  
  Conclusion: This game has good graphics, really just right gameplay that you might enjoy, awesome 
 music and a really decent replay value for you to enjoy over and over. I recommend this game to 
 anyone really, if you are hesistating then look no further, as this game will be worth your $60 
 value. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: groupq58
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 30, 2008 4:02 pm PT
Review:  I love everythnig about the Fable series and this game happens to be a fantastic intallment. Although 
 there have only been 2 games in the series this one gives everything an RPG or any gamer for that 
 matter more than they expected. The comabat sytem is very different from the original. The X, Y 
 , and B buttons all govern their own skill. Stength, skill, and will. Simply by pressing the buttons 
 you can rack up a fierce and brutal combo with all three of the seperate skill types. This of course 
 makes the fighting much faster, but is never traded for the over all feel and focus of the game. 
 The story doen't have really anything to do with the orginal, because it takes place in the same 
 land as the first Fabel Game but 500 years in the future. For those of you have played and enjoyed 
 the first Fable you will find many Story elements, and figures that reming of the original game. 
 You begin the game as a young boy and grow older depending on how long you play the game. One of 
 the main features that makes the game great in that everything thing you do within the game effects 
 who you become, what you will look like, to even how your children act. Another Main feature in 
 the game is the dog. The dog does a lot for you. Not only does he serve by your side at all times, 
 but he helps in battle, and in finding treasures. This game is honestly a must have game for any 
 XBOX 360 owner. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zBloodD3monz
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 30, 2008 1:53 pm PT
Review:  I got this game a couple of days ago after I asked people on Xbox Live what they would rate it, 
 and the average answer was 9. But I think its slightly better than a 9.
  
  Fable 2 has great graphics and good scenery. The water looks pretty good with the ripples. The 
 detail of your dog even looks pretty good. But I must say that I have seen better.
  
  There are alot of things to do. Like working for some money. This includes things like being a 
 blacksmith, woodcutter, bartender, bounty hunting and many more. Although I think this can get 
 boring for some players. Another way to make money is to buy houses and rent them out or buying 
 shops. Other stuff which you can do in Fable 2 is getting married and having children. You can 
 get married to a male/female, and have sex with anyone male/female.
  
  Fable 2 gives you alot of choices. Like becoming evil or good, pure or corrupt, slim or fat and 
 many more. All your choices effects how the NPC's would react. 
  
  Overall Fable 2 is a great game and extrememly fun. I think I will be playing this game for quite 
 a long time as there is plenty to do. I highly recomend this game to people who like RPG games. 
 If you haven't played an RPG game or don't like RPG games I recommend trying out this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: t_76
Rating: 5.5
Date: Nov 2, 2008 8:22 pm PT
Review:  Microsoft must wasn't watching the competion. Fable 2 in my opinion; Is kinda worse than that Viking 
 game that I traded in to buy Fable 2. That same game when released was compared to Fabel. So how 
 can Fable 2, with so much hype miss the mark on the base of which is was created? No offense, but 
 Fabel 2 seemed to take more of an soft and gay approach than a hardcore adventure. Imagine having, 
 or you already have 15 EXP bottles that gives you anywhere between 500 to 62000 points. In order 
 to use these bolltles you'll have to pause the game, scroll down to items, and then scroll down 
 to the potion you want to use. Now multiply those same botttles in which you can use to build your 
 character, to the time it takes to access and to use them. You will quickly find out that a hot 
 key should've been implemented. Wait! Remember Maximo for the PS2, and that viking game I mentioned 
 earlier. Well thats Fable 2 in a nutshell; Except for the mature content that Fable 2 has. Ultimately 
 this game in my opinion was a step back, and for the graphics; one word. Enhanced, and thats all. 
 To be honest, it looked like too me the character model always was running like some kind of football 
 player. Harvest moon with a sword amongst other common titles that describes Fable 2. Look... Anybody 
 can do a porno, that shouldn't mean they deserve 8 stars for doing it. Fable 2 falls in this catagory, 
 mature content equals a great score. Wrong! Sloppy seconds is what call the game engine to create 
 Fable 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Church_TOG
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 30, 2008 11:20 am PT
Review:  The game is good, and this review will be as short as Fable II is.
  
  The big short coming is there is simply not too much to do in it. I tried staying off the main 
 quest until I realized I would not open the world up until I did. once it was beaten, it took little 
 time to complete ALL of the side quest, buy all the buildings and find all the gargoyles and keys. 
 Way too short for all the hype and time spent building up money in Pub Games.
  
  I expected a world 5 tiems as large as Fable I, not smaller than Lost Chapters. I was excited about 
 this game, and enjoyed playing it for the 3 days it held my attention. No Replay Value.
  
  The money system makes it too easy to but up everything and the lack of a full blow XBl multiplayer 
 leaves me asking why. 
  
  The game is polished, visually stunning and all, but it just comes up far too short on actual content. 
 Maybe I've been spolied by large expansive games like Oblivion, Fallout 3, and Two Worlds, but 
 I expected this game to be in my console a few weeks, not taken out by Thursday night. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: YellowFlameDcr
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 30, 2008 8:57 am PT
Review:  When I first played a few hours of this game I thought "Wow, Amazing" There was plenty to do, Looked 
 Great and just like the Zelda I used to play when I was a kid.
  But then a few hours passed and it started to bore me. After a while the limitation for the shops, 
 jobs, people etc is taken away and it doesn't seem the 'Amazing' game that you thought it was to 
 begin with.
  Don't get me wrong it looks brilliant and is quite simple enough to play, but after so many people 
 telling me "Oh you have to get Fable 2, you will be Amazed" Personally, it wasent like that at 
 all. I'd rather go back and play the Zelda Ocarina of time... Now that's one Amazing game.
  So my Advice is, Don't bother waisting your money on fable 2. Buy an N64 and Zelda Ocarina of time 
 (you can pick them up for pennies now) and play that game... Then you'll be happy :-) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: clyptonic
Rating: 6
Date: Oct 30, 2008 8:31 am PT
Review:  Fable 2, a game that requires the utmost skill to complete. No wait, not this one folks. The hype 
 that was going on for this game was unbelievable, but for what? The graphics? the ability to interact 
 with AI in ways that no other game has done? your actions shape the world? NO! all of these are 
 well done but not quite there as of next generation games today especially in terms of graphics. 
 The social interactivity is very well done which ranges from things like pulling middle finger 
 at someone to giving them a gift or even getting married and having kids. I played this game through 
 once and not once did i get married or get involved with anyone in any sexual way, to me it was 
 just a waste of time! The point in playing games is to finish them, not to have a social life. The 
 combat control schematics makes combat really easy, not to mention that i didnt even die once through 
 out the whole game!!!!!! No mana equals victories every time, just keep tapping that Y button and 
 youll be pumping out your spells at no cost.
  
  As a hardcore first person shooter player im not quite sure why I bought this game. Fable 2 is 
 a good game in terms of RPG playing but that it. The stores that you visit in Albion always have 
 the same items of clothing and the same goes towards the blacksmith unless you progree through 
 the game. Once you finish the game for your first time you wont want to play it again for the second 
 time, even though those god forsaken achievements require that you play through the game twice 
 to get them.
  
  The jobs in fable 2 are extremely easy, blacksmith, woodcutter, bartender, assassin, bounty hunter, 
 civilian displacement, slave rescue. All that the blacksmith, bartender and woodcutter require you 
 to do is tap the A button.
  
  Their are quite alot of side quest that will keep you playing for a while but theyre not worth 
 it unless you want achievements.
  
  freedom to explore- the world of Albion is big but nothing compared to the world of Fallout 3. 
 You can never get lost when doing missions because of the trail of bread crumbs that shows you 
 where to go every time, no fun in that now is there.
  
  It may be fun for RPG fans but anyone else just do yourself a favor and stay away from this game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: c0c41n3
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 30, 2008 7:40 am PT
Review:  Ok, let me first start off by saying that I had huge ideas of what this game was going to be like 
 in my head, and it didn't live up to all of them. But by no means is this game a letdown. I enjoyed 
 the first Fable, but was not impressed.. now however, I'm impressed. Two days after this game came 
 out, I was seeing reviews about how people had already completed the main quest.. and was complaining 
 that this game was "To Short" well my fellow gamers, If all you did was rush through the main quests, 
 without exploring.. and stopping along the way to enjoy everything else this game has to offer.. 
 you more than likely have not got your money worth. But for me.. I've enjoyed this game so much; 
 and would actually like to give it a higher rating than I did; but the bugs keep me from giving 
 it any higher. The gameplay is highly addictive, I enjoyed on the first fable the demon doors as 
 much as anything else in the game, and this one is no different. Collecting the silver keys (which 
 now I'm up to 30) , opening the chests scattered throughout the world, improving my overall skill 
 level (which I've heard people bashing the level up system, which I enjoy myself) , and basically 
 just going through the villages, and listening to what people have to say.. is extremley fun for 
 me. It seems like every so often, someone is saying something different.. after you've completed 
 a different quest or two. The dude's that sing a song of your adventures, the "bard" or whatever, 
 is fun.. gathering renown (I'm up to 49,623 renown BTW, 50,000 for another achievement) which oh 
 yes.. I currently have 26 achievements.. I have no guide to help me along the way with this game.. 
 and I fill as though I'm getting the most out of this game I possibly can, which has been nonstop 
 fun. I bought Mass Effect about 2wks before this game came out, (where have I been on that, I know) 
 But I wanted it to hold me over until fable, boy did it ever.. but let me say, in my opnion; I 
 do believe I'm enjoying fable AS much.. if not a tad more. In closing.. this is an excellent game, 
 which any RPG fan should not miss in my opinion, and if you stop to do the sidequests, and all 
 that good stuff.. collecting keys, etc, etc.. which may not sound fun to alot of people.. but to 
 me that's the meaning of RPG's.. exploring, collecting things, yadda.. yadda; you should also have 
 a wonderful game to sink your teeth into. 
  
  Gameplay: excellent, tons of things to do, alot to explore, people to communicate with... buggy 
 though, and once you become famous.. and go into a town, I find it EXTREMLEY annoying how the people 
 follow you around the way they do.. gosh.. you can love me, but leave me away (I'm playing good 
 BTW, may go through again evil, but my just buy Fallout 3.. don't know yet.. might come back to 
 it once I've exhausted fallout, and do it evil)
  
  Graphics: Very good graphics, not the best I've seen.. but very good.. high attention to detail, 
 the clothes more than anything in my opinion
  
  Sound: Some of the best sound in a game.. couldn't expect better, voice acting is great.. and the 
 NPC's in the game always have something new to say.. 
  
  Value: As some people may not have thought there was much value here, I for one couldn't be more 
 happy.. like I said, I'm over 26hrs in, and haven't completed the main quest yet.. although I do 
 only have one more main mission to beat, although I currently still have 11 quests open, with all 
 the sidequests and whatnot, and I've heard that there's more quests you can get once you beat the 
 game.. and I know most people by now have stopped reading this, but if you haven't I hope you enjoyed.. 
 thx!! peace. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FelisLeo1980
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 30, 2008 5:10 am PT
Review:  Fable 2 is an RPG where your actions manifest themselves in main character's appearance and in 
 the gaming world itself.
  
  Story of Fable 2 is, quite surprisingly, not that interesting. You start 500 years after first 
 Fable as a young boy, who together with his sister gets invited to Lord Lucien's Fairfax castle. 
 There it is revealed that Lucien is doing some research and in the process kills both of you. But 
 you don't die and 10 years later you start your quest to stop Lord Lucien. End is always the same 
 in Fable 2, but it's the way you get there that really matters. In this game the journey itself 
 is much more important than the end.
  
  In the course of your adventure there are numerous hints to previous game and even the overall 
 map design resembles Fable from 2004. Story is told through a few cutscenes and lots of excellent 
 voice acting. The ability to choose subtitles makes sure that it's easy to follow Fable 2's story. 
 This game is a slow-paced adventure so make sure you take your time to explore and enjoy the world 
 of Albion. For me it took only 3 days (about 10 to 15 hours) to play through the main quest, but 
 luckily you can continue by completing sidequests after that.
  
  Graphics are average, but it's the colorful art design that really makes Fable 2 to look good. 
 That same light and fairytale mood is always present when you explore different places. Unfortunately 
 there are some graphical glitches, texture popping and occasional frame rate drops, but all of 
 this can easily be forgiven. Sound design relies more heavily on sound effects than actual music, 
 although that too is a high quality product.
  
  Controls are simple and easy to learn, but unfortunately they are not very precise and always feel 
 a little loose. Luckily in this kind of game you don't need pin point accuracy and split-second 
 timing like in Ninja Gaiden for example. Save system is just like it should be: there are occasional 
 autosaves, but you can also save anywhere anytime. This makes sure that you feel like your always 
 moving forward.
  
  Gameplay in short is a third person action game with lots of RPG elements. There are a lot of melee 
 weapons to use and some of them are upgradable with special items called Augments. Same is also 
 true in ranged weapons, but the most interesting is the ability to use and upgrade different magical 
 abilities. Combat in general is not that challenging, so it's entirely up to you how straight forward 
 and boring or varied and interesting you want to make it.
  
  Navigating is made extremely easy and it's impossible to get lost. After choosing a primary quest 
 from the menu a golden trail shows you where to go next. If you've already visited that goal region 
 you can also jump straight to it with a push of a button. This erases the element of pointless 
 running from point A to point B, but this and some frequent loading times between different regions 
 cause that Albion does not feel like a huge big world.
  
  Your constant companion is the dog and it's the best part of the game. You don't really care about 
 any of the characters, but you do care about the dog and it connects you to this fantasy world. 
 After teaching a few tricks your best friend will help you to find treasure chests and dig spots, 
 which is an essential ability in some quests. The addition of a dog takes away that usual aimless 
 wondering when trying to find buried items or hidden treasures.
  
  You need money to survive in Albion and you can get it in a way you see fit. You can get a job 
 for example as a bartender or a blacksmith: this starts a minigame in which you earn gold and fame 
 or you can just kill people and take their money or break into houses and steal whatever you may 
 find. Making yourself famous is also a great way to get discounts in shops and this is accomplished 
 by completing quests and performing gestures in front of people. You can also choose to get married 
 and have children or it can just be you and your dog on the road. What ever you choose know that 
 your actions will reflect on how people behave towards you.
  
  Fable 2 features a co-op mode, in which another player joins to other's game and they can complete 
 quests together. It's a nice idea, but Fable 2 is clearly designed to be a single player adventure. 
 Player 2 will always feel that he or she is just a guest and an outsider, but the camera is the 
 worst thing in co-op. You can't adjust it in any way and especially in caves and dungeons this 
 creates occasionally frustrating events since you really can't see where you're going.
  
  Fable 2 is a different RPG experience that you really should check out. You may not be playing 
 it for dozens of hours and many weeks, but you will definitely remember it afterwards. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 69WoG_BoY69
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 30, 2008 3:47 am PT
Review:  So first im just gonna say it Fable 2 was good but i was beyond dissapointed with the state the 
 game was in. It was like the game was finished over night there are way too many glitches now you 
 may sayoh anyone can hold up glitches" well not these ones i came across 3 game-enders and dozens 
 of others in just 3 playthroughs, Well thats the bad part off my chest now to the review
  
  Fable 2 is a GOOD game but it is simple and can be finished in just under 8 hours again we have 
 been ****** over by peter molyneux with all his promises. Well if the game wasn't so hyped up more 
 people with enjoyed it but lionhead just crammed us with promises they did not keep. you can't visit 
 you child in an orphanage, there are about 10 sets of clothes and co-op was a major let down but 
 apart from these flaws fable 2 is "good"
  
  Graphics would be better if they wern't jumping all over the place with glitches but they are all 
 right. Fighting is probably the best thing about the game , messing around with swords, guns and 
 magic can be a lot of fun. there are no big choices and character expressions are all-right
  
  All in all fable 2 is good but the game could have been so much more if lionhead put more time 
 into this game i wouldn't of minded waiting a month more for my game because waiting a month is 
 better than playing for 3 hours then your game stuffing up and your hero unable to walk . Well 
 with that im finished. Go out buy Fable 2 but don't expect much
  
  Peace Out 
::::::

::::::
UserName: War_Martyr
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 30, 2008 3:15 am PT
Review:  Fable II really nails down just how it feels to be a hero: resisting temptations while saving lives 
 and sacrificing your own needs to benefit mankind as a whole, this game has a few moments that 
 test just how far you are willing to go to retain that heroic status.
  
  To be fair, I did have the option to make a lot of money through extortion or selling people to 
 slavery, have the entire country fear me, and kill that annoying villager with just a slap. But 
 to be a true hero, it's all about sacrifices in this game, and not just giving up money: sometimes 
 what you have to sacrifice will make you think for a long time, and the things you have to part 
 with will really leave a hollow burden on you for the rest of the game. 
  
  The game is still about earning renown to boost your fame to the citizens, and how they react upon 
 your arrival. The more famous you get, people will crowd around you, children will run to you and 
 ask for an autograph, all the women beg for your marriage proposal, shop owners will even offer 
 discounts and gifts based on how much they like you.
  
  But I guess what makes is so believable is how you are able to react to it all. Every person in 
 the game has their own personality, a different interest and dislike, and you are able to exploit 
 them all. For instance, one time I flirted with a farmer's wife, and as her happiness increased, 
 so did her husband's hatred for me. Then, I laughed in his face, and everyone around me started 
 to express their distaste towards my actions.
  
  Although, the real star of the game has to be the dog: I can honestly say I've been attached to 
 this animal as much as I have towards the real dog I have at home. At times, it can annoy you as 
 it lags behind when you're in a hurry to finish a quest, then breaks your heart as you watch it 
 slowly limp next to you and whimper in pain because it got injured protecting you. Then, you just 
 can't stay mad at it. 
  
  At times, I would think this dog was more loyal than the family I created in the game. It would 
 rush headfirst to find treasure, bark at enemies you haven't seen yet, and just ultimately, never 
 leave your side. Outside of battle, it acts just as a dog would in real life: it chases its tail, 
 rolls over, sleeps at the doorstep when you enter a building, and express its happiness when other 
 people pet it or children hug it. Just witnessing it in action would make you feel proud of such 
 a companion.
  
  As such, the game does a good job portraying this dog as man's best friend. At times, it felt so 
 empty without the dog's guidance when I walked alone, or feared for its life when it ran ahead 
 without me. In all, I adored the dog's companionship, and has to be the greatest non-playable sidekick 
 in videogame history.
  
  Other parts of the game, however, aren't as striking. The main quest starts out as a tale of vengeance, 
 which later on unfolds as a story about saving the world at the same coincidence. It isn't bad, 
 but it was more about a fetch quest on finding other heroes than it was about an epic tale on your 
 character's life. 
  
  To its credit, it did have some memorable moments, and the ones it did have truly showed me just 
 how much of a dedicated warrior I was. By the time my character was a white-haired, wrinkly old 
 man, I had enough fame to marry women half my age, despite the heart-breaking choices I made to 
 keep it that way, choices that made me wonder if it would have been better had I kept it in my 
 favor instead of risking it all for others.
  
  Despite this game being a sequel, there is very little references to the original Fable. Other 
 than Albion being modernized, characters and events that happened in the original are mentioned 
 a little, most notably in the loading screen, but if you've never played the first Fable, you could 
 just pass it off as just loose talk from the citizens. In other words, you aren't obligated to 
 play the first one to fully enjoy Fable II. 
  
  Another addition was the inclusion of online co-op, which on my experience, was an utter letdown. 
 The biggest disappointment is that the person invited isn't even able to use their character: they 
 choose a generic person based on gender, alliance, and weapons. But even more disappointing is 
 how it plays: despite playing online, the screen is shared, so my parnter isn't able to stray and 
 explore at his own leisure. And at times, he complained that it was hard for him to see if I ventured 
 too far. 
  
  It's a nice try, and completing quests with a buddy does have its benefits, especially if you're 
 having trouble in one spot. Also, experience and gold is shared, depending on how generous or greedy 
 the host is. But as a whole, I had more fun playing by myself.
  
  Combat is simple, with each form of attack mapped on their respective buttons. As you gain levels, 
 you spend experience on either Strength, Will, or Skill. And you will need more than just one to 
 fully appreciate the game. For example, Strength makes your health bar larger, expands your methods 
 of attack, and makes you hit harder. But you'll also want some of what Skill has to offer, since 
 you know you'll need that evasive roll or a faster sword strike.
  
  Aside from performance, leveling up also shows on your character. You'll see the increase in muscle, 
 height, and if you've spent some time with magic, you'll see the blue essence erupting from his 
 skin. It's just impressive to see all the time you've poured into your hero is also shown cosmetically. 
 By the time you've maxed out the skills you desire, you will look like a god.
  
  Fable II, as a whole, does live up to the expectations. It is more emotionally involved than its 
 predecessor, and the annoyances such as rapid aging, being ridiculously easy, and strictly linear 
 are resolved. Your character ages within reason, and although the game is pretty easy, it still 
 offered a challenge. I mean, I was actually forced to use a resurrection phial! And there is a 
 lot to do and explore, even if you did finish the main quest.
  
  Despite the limitations and disappointments, Fable II is still an epic masterpiece that you are 
 in total control over. Although I would say that only fans of the original Fable would enjoy this 
 game the most, it does have my recommendation towards gamers in general, but I'll also warn them 
 about Fable II's faults, although I don't expect it to restrict them from enjoying such a fine 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blasterchief
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 30, 2008 4:12 am PT
Review:  So, Fable II. 4 years ago, I defeated Jack of Blades in the Chamber of Fate, working hard and finally 
 smiling once I landed that final blow. Ever since have I waited for the sequel. You start Fable 
 II, like Fable, as a child with your sister, working to get some gold to buy a music box. Your 
 sister is at first sceptical, but is told by a mysterious blind old woman by the name of Theresa, 
 that there is more to it. 
  
  You buy the music box, wishing to live in a Castle like Castle Fairfax in Bowerstone. In the night, 
 Lord Lucien Fairfax orders you in to his castle, kills your sister and leaves you for dead.
  Rescued by Theresa and joined by a dog, you are trained to be a Hero and finally are sent to embark 
 on an "epic quest" for revenge.
  
  Gameplay is the strongest point Fable has. Combat is fluid from the word go, it being easy to switch 
 between melee, ranged and magical weapons, and also incredibly satisfying. Later on you'll be greatly 
 enjoying using the gun if you manage to max out the "Dextrous Styles" skill, which will allow you 
 to choose which part of your enemies' bodies to shoot.
  I found the dog is an incredibly lovable companion. It's arguably one of the most brilliant ideas 
 in gaming I've ever seen. He seeks you out treasures you would usually miss, and finds dig spots 
 that you would really never find otherwise. Also, the ability to swim, climb up onto shore and 
 vault over fences really gives you a lot more freedom. 
  
  The job mechanics are very simple, and I for one actually found them to be fun. It felt good every 
 time I hit the sweet spot on that blade while working as a Blacksmith.
  
  But jobs aren't how you'll make most of your money. You'll get started by working as a blacksmith, 
 woodcutter or bartender, but you'll end up making most, if not all, of your money investing in 
 real estate. It's incredibly satisfying later on when you see 2000 odd gold popping up every 5 
 minutes.
  
  The Fable world is very immersive, with the possibilities very entertaining. Being able to woo 
 people, make them flee at the sight of you, see your dog perform tricks, and reading books about 
 the Old Kingdom really give it significant depth. Two things I enjoyed were the return of the silver 
 keys, and shutting up the stone gargoyles hidden around Albion by blasting them into a million 
 pieces. 
  
  All these things are brilliant in Fable II, and I definitely haven't mentioned all of it. There 
 is a lot of great stuff to find in Albion.
  
  But every game has to have a negative. Fable II isn't flawless, much like it's predecessor. There 
 are little bugs, such as your dog might appear to walk through a treasure chest while you open 
 it, but as long as it doesn't take away from the experience, which it doesn't, it's acceptable.
 
  
  People might throw a tantrum at the fact that there are not as many regions as in Fable, but it 
 is nicer to have much larger, more accessible ones. Unfortunately, these lead to frustratingly 
 long loading times. Also, the game's co-op is extremely fun, but it gets annoying when you have 
 to run back a few metres just so your friend can get out from between two rocks.
  
  Remember Demon Doors? They're back. But there are only 8 of them. I haven't unlocked all of them, 
 but it shows a bit of a disappointing aspect of Fable II. There are barely any legendary weapons 
 at all, and customizing your outfit isn't nearly as fun. It all depends on your Physique and Toughness, 
 and armour has no effect at all.
  
  My final point will be on the main story of Fable II. Peter Molyneux promised us an epic tale that 
 we will never forget. We all know that habit of his. Yes, THAT habit.
  
  He delivered all his promises about gameplay this time. But I'm afraid he was wrong about the story. 
 The story is short, and the characters really aren't that likeable. The one character that I thought 
 really amused me only arrives two quests before the end of the game. 
  
  There are many plotholes, such as any real explanation as to Lucien's plans, and background on 
 Theresa, who obviously is the same from the original Fable, but it's nice for some confirmation, 
 is it not? 
  After all these years I've waited, I'm afraid to say I am utterly disappointed at the storyline 
 of this game. I was waiting eagerly to give this a 10/10, but now I see why Gamespot gave it only 
 8.5. 
  
  The plot is short. Not just short. Unbelievably short. Want to know what the final boss fight is 
 like? It's not much of a spoiler, we all knew it was going to be against Lucien. But guess what. 
 He doesn't transform into a massive dragon. He doesn't have unimaginable power or an undefeatable 
 weapon. He's just a harmless old man. Know what that means? 
  
  Pretty much as soon as I came to face him: Bang. One hit K. O. Awful.
  
  I expected Fable II 
 to end with a beautifully written story, with me having bulging eyes and an open, awestruck mouth. 
 Instead, I felt confused, betrayed. Think Halo 2 had a bad ending? Try playing the Fable II story. 
 Yeah, I went there.
  
  I never understood why Peter Molyneux was so disappointed with the original Fable's story; it was 
 brilliant. Fable II's storyline compared to it is like comparing Goosebumps to Harry Potter.
  
  I was expecting "whoa" moments at the end. Instead, all I got near the end was an "Oh my God, 
 no!" moment. I seriously nearly cried during that scene.
  
  Overall, Fable is a game with great replayability, some brilliantly innovative gameplay mechanics, 
 and a world which you will absolutely love. The dog is wonderful, people react to you realistically, 
 and it's a brilliant game for the casual gamer. It only had one main weak point, being it's story.
 
  
  The thing is, Fable II seemed to be aiming more at the casual gamers than the Fable faithful. Fable 
 II could have, and should have, been capped off with a fitting storyline, but really, you are left 
 with half a cliffhanger. 
  
  I will be surprised if Lionhead don't come up with an expansion to the storyline.
  
  8.5/10 
 
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Snipzealot
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 29, 2008 11:17 pm PT
Review:  One thing I must say is that Fable 2 is one of the most graphically stunning games I've played 
 in a very long time. The game play is amazing also, from the combat system to hunting silver keys 
 and gargoyles to playing pub games to buying up all the real estate and renting it our for next 
 to nothing or for ridiculously high prices.
  
  The alignment system has always been the heart and soul of Fable but now with the Purity and Corruption 
 settings, the team at Lionhead have managed to make it even more in depth, with even more changes 
 to your characters through your actions.
  
  The story line is great and has a truly deep quest line with all the main and side quests but as 
 I stated in my review cap, the main quest line just wasn't long enough considering the wait. I 
 really didn't expect to beat it in less than 15 hours. It left me begging for more, almost like 
 a crack head when his fix wears off.
  
  Well despite the shortness the game is truely amazing and definitly leaves you wanting more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shalomony
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 29, 2008 9:25 pm PT
Review:  Now when I first heard of Peter's Idea of LOVE in a video game, I thought he was doing some serious 
 drugs. Now that Fable 2 is here I know what he means by it. 
  I have a family, dog, and random villagers, that idolize me. "Do I want to give this child an autograph 
 card?" I ask myself.
  
  Good and evil play an even more important role in fable two. Depending on how you interact, with 
 almost everything, is how your Good/Evil and Pure/Corrupt changes.
  If you decide to charge your property tenants more your corrupt, less, and you're as pure as they 
 come. Shop work with the same mechanic. Offering anyone that wants to go one way or the other an 
 easier choice to increase your purity or corruption.
  
  Now, since GOOD/EVIL are on a different scale, they change slightly more than you would want them 
 to. I find myself sometimes pulling a weapon out or using magic in town, making me evil to the 
 civilians. yet they ALL love their low rent-controlled housing, making me pure.
  This mechanic actually makes you think a little more about your actions, if you want to be evil 
 it is MUCH easier. The official Strategy guide actually states, "Being evil is much easier, all 
 you have to do is whatever you want." [without regard for consequences]
  
  Now there are definite downsides to Fable 2 as well, like the Co-op camera angles. Now on the same 
 screen I can see needing to share a camera with the host game, but on Xbox Live you should be able 
 to at least have your own camera. I mean the ability to connect on xbox live is amazing, but the 
 camera is so confined it's ridiculous.
  Now I compare ALL RPG strategy guides to 'the bible' for Elder Scrolls 4: Oblivion. Any rpg that 
 has a smaller strategy guide than Elder scrolls is either; 1. Not a very detailed guide and may 
 be confusing through some quests, or 2. Doesn't have the CONTENT of oblivion (now I compare this 
 because I've owned Oblivion since day one, and have yet to beat EVERY SINGLE quest.)
  
  Now I remember hearing Molyneux saying that fable 2 was supposed to be bigger, HOW? I've gone through 
 the regions in both games, I would say that fable 2 is only slightly larger than Fable: the Lost 
 Chapters. Also, I was hoping to be able to go more places between loading screens, or perhaps a 
 faster loading system. I've actually fallen asleep during a loading screen.
  
  All in all it a decent game, but Definitely more of what I expected from fable 1, with a slight 
 overhaul on the graphics.
  
  Graphics: 10/10 (beautiful character rendering and environments, WAY TO GO LionHead art team)
 
  
  Sound: 9/10 (GOOD Job Audio team, great ambiance and EXCELLENT fight sounds [I especially like the 
 different Ranged weapons differing] )
  
  Difficulty: 7/10 (It's simple control scheme and contextual fights makes it easy to get into the 
 action, although sometimes i find myself scaring the villagers, oops)
  
  Value: 7/10 (A Must for fable 1 fans, pretty good for free-roam RPG buffs, and simple for newcomers 
 to find a nich. Hard-core RPG fans might find fable 2 slightly small, with a short storyline)
  
  Replay value: 9/10 (With the addition of 3 seperate achievements for the finale of the game, 
 Fable 2 Encourages to try it a different way)
  
  Gameplay: 7/10 (fun and simple controls, great new magic system. slight problems with the 'Vault/Dive' 
 edge detection. wish it was more open world and less individual regions that connect [WHY the HELL 
 is it 2 miles to bowerstone market to/from bowerstone old town and take 1 hour to journey, MY DOG 
 can run faster than that] ) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BFGz
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 29, 2008 7:23 pm PT
Review:  Best RPG game for xbox 360. it owns. highly addictive. The main story line is short but fun. alot 
 of money is to be earn.. Always buy realstate. number 1 way of getting money (besides working.. Blacksmith, 
 woodcutter bartender) every 5 minutes you get income on the rent of the buildings. im making around 
 16,000 gold every 5 minute (my nickname is King (queen now dam potion) ) . the best part of this game 
 is your dog, your best friend, your treasure partner.. what ever you choose to be Evil or Good 
 your dog will reflect that.. for example if you go Pure evil and Soo corrupt your dog will lock 
 like a black lab with red eyes (pretty freaky) but if your choose the good side your dog will be 
 come like a golden retreaver. but he does have some down sides, when your in a fight and theres 
 treasure or a dig site he will be barking at you telling to folow him when your being attack by 
 bandits or balverines (Oh yes the balverines are back and more scaryer then ever) . Fable 2 also 
 has some bugs sometime when you load the game some NPCs were missing there lower half of there 
 bodys (it kind of funny) or it will freeze on you. but if you push away all the bugs you have and 
 epic game.. keep fable coming lionhead your doing a great job...
  
  l8ter~
  BFG 
::::::

::::::
UserName: suplax
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 29, 2008 6:29 pm PT
Review:  The first fable was a truly beautiful game , i finished it like 3 times , very good.
  For every good game there is a sequel, not different with Fable. Fable II could have been so much 
 more, and the most sites and magazines overrated. 
  The game is full of glitch's and lack a lot of things that could and should be implemented.
  
 The visual is quite good but still if you compare too some similar new games, you can see they 
 could have made better, but its good anyway. The sounds are good i have no complain about it. The 
 history is not good as the first fable but do the work. The most lack in the game is the gameplay... 
 First there is too few weapons options, there are no armor's anymore ( that really let me down) 
 now only clothes, i think more customization for you char should be added. The combat system is 
 nice on the begin , but after some hours it will get boring, the family and house system's are 
 quite nice. The online gameplay is horrible in my opinion , not fun as should be. My advice here 
 is... if you really are a fable fan rent it first, if you never liked fable don't even rent it 
 and if you are in the middle... do some research and after that still rent it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: asdeerdte
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 29, 2008 6:14 pm PT
Review:  ok what happend to fable 2 the story whats up with that too short not enough main character there 
 were only 4 the lady and the 3 heros whack... magis ok what happend to all the spells that were 
 in fable they took some nice ones out = (... weapons what tha there were so little otions of weapons 
 that i was sad and the armor wheerre did it go you cant buy armor how come that is sad = ( i love 
 fable because of the stroy it was nice all those nice characters whisper thunder guild mast and 
 that other bad foo jack of blades the sister... is lion studios serious how could they make fable 
 two less than fable omg im saden by this i know its true they dstroyed what fable did = (... conclusion 
 not enouigh epth in the story characters magic was killed weapons wow meesed em up armor were did 
 the beautiful iron covering your body go i want themn answered ???? let down i enjoyed fable 1000s 
 of times more than fable 2 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Funkadima
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 29, 2008 5:13 pm PT
Review:  Let me warn you: I played through the first one at least 10 times and I'm an avid fanboy of Fable. 
 And with the greatness of this game I have no choice but to go into a lot of depth. I'll keep the 
 comparisons to a minimum because this game is great all by itself and doesn't need a greater prequel 
 to give it credit (*cough* Halo 2 and 3 *cough*) . If I could give it a 9.9, I would, but alas I 
 must drop it down to a 9.5
  
  The story is... not the most developed ever and they don't explain it in the beginning, but they 
 most likely did that on purpose because it left me wanting to discover exactly what Lucien's motives 
 were. Finally, it drops you right into the action with very little down-time. However, it's very 
 immersive and exciting. 
  
  Combat is really well made. Close-quarters is damn-near perfect. The guns don't always target what 
 you want, but a quick roll will give you enough time to re-adjust and shoot some more. The magic 
 can be kind of a drag to organize on the fly, but the high-level spells are really satisfying! 
 And the slo-mo sequences look sweet but seem to only show up during certain fights such as boss 
 battles. Finally, the roll system isn't that great when around trolls... I couldn't 'lock on' to 
 a troll and thus had to run around like a retard instead of just rolling to dodge its attacks.
 
  
  Side missions are a necessity throughout because you need the renown in order to do some of the 
 main quests, but it doesn't detract from the overall experience and will only piss off those who 
 ONLY want to do the main quests... but I don't know why they would want that. They're, mostly, exciting 
 except for one annoying, recurring mission that seems more like it should be a job. I just rush 
 in, kill 5 bandits, exit, repeat. 
  
  The jobs are mostly boring little minigames with few exceptions which include action. However, 
 once you put some good effort into a job, (realistic I know!) you get lots of money, especially 
 as a bartender, woo hoo!
  
  The AI is really good, both from the characters AND the town itself! Characters have multiple different 
 aspects that you can piss off but overall everyone will love you, just not as easy as it was in 
 Fable 1 in which ALL the guys seemed to be bisexual. And that's a good thing, believe me. But once 
 you're more popular, you can get up to around 10 people or so following you all around town. 2 
 people were even standing above my bed right after doing the do with my lady! Marriage is okay. 
 The constant gifts they give you are nice and sometimes helpful such as dog tricks and better furniture. 
 But apparently marrying a whore is a bad idea because she doesn't pay attention to me and her opinion 
 NEVER changes even if I'm threatening her with a mighty axe! So I have concluded that I must kill 
 her and re-marry. The kids obviously don; t like you as much (I axed my first wife while making 
 sure the kid wasn't there) and get shipped off to child services but you can still see them in 
 town, which always saddens me. If you're an evil character, then your kid might hurt your feelings. 
 My kid said that our house wasn't as cool as her friend's house.
  
  Just because the last paragraph was too long, I'll explain the town AI down here. The game will 
 react to your actions in drastic measures. Of course the first one will change Bowerstone Old Town 
 into either a slum-fest or a thriving new community based on your actions. On the other hand, a 
 certain quest I did required me to wipe out a town's entire populous, which I did. And when I came 
 back the fields were dead, the citizens were poorly dressed and everyone was afraid of me. But 
 now I have all the buildings in said town bought and I have lowered all the prices and rent down 
 to 60-75% off and the town is starting to look slightly better. Finally, a character asks you for 
 a small investment early in the game and if you pay him, the town will transform for the better 
 and he will pay you back fifteen-fold! 
  
  The demon doors are a nice blast from the past but are more difficult to unlock than the first. 
 They're innards are, as always, strange and worrisome and cool. They generally yield good rewards. 
 But the best of the rewards come from the new gargoyles which insult you as you pass by. You execute 
 them for no reason (I guess just because they're annoying) and you get goodies from a secret area.
 
  
  The game itself is funny even during the darkest of times to sway you from that "kill myself" mood. 
 Plus, Fable 1 fans will find many hilarious and disturbing references to the first one which I 
 find to be a wonderful addition and my friend's have no idea what I'm talking about... cool.
  
  FINALLY: now come the three things that bother me most. Some animations such as NPCs running 
 in the distance or your dog diving off a cliff or the like have semi-choppy movement, which can 
 get a little annoying if you spend a lot of time in towns or just around others in general. Surprisingly 
 this does not happen during combat or other fast-paced sequences, only during the subtle movements 
 which should be the most polished of all. Secondly, if you're evil and do evil things, it seems 
 as if your set for the rest of the game. After hitting complete evil-ness, I reduced the rent of 
 all of my buildings in Bowerstone and my corrupt/pure bar was still fully corrupt. But that's a 
 minor annoyance because I like being evil, more money (I'll just play through another 8 times) . 
 Finally, your weight is very hard to keep in check. Unlike the first one where you had potions 
 up the wazoo and only ate as a last resort, potions are much rarer, apparently due to the fact 
 that heroes are basically non-existent now and very few know the ways of alchemy. This leaves you 
 to rely on food, with about 90% of it adding weight to you. The ONLY way to get rid of this is.... celery. 
 Carrots? no; Apples? no; Exercise? no Celery? yes. Bad thing is, shops only have 1 of each item 
 at a time nowadays, which is weird and bad business planning, so you are left with about 4 health 
 potions at a time which you burn through surprisingly fast, a LOT of pies and meat and drinks which 
 will mostly add 10 points of fatness, and 2 or 3 pieces of celery which only take off 5 points 
 of fatness. All of this added together makes you one fat SOB. I went from town to town, not fighting (and 
 thus not losing health and not losing health thus not eating) , and obtained all the celery possible 
 and ate it immediately because I was so fat. Then I rested for 7 days and did it all over again 
 and I still look awful. It's slowly going down but that's only because I refuse to eat anything 
 which makes me fatter.
  
  Please notice that these complaints are mostly minor visual flaws that don't really impact the 
 gaming experience, especially the running and dog animations. The evil/corrupt thing gives you 
 horns and is said to make people not like you, but a quick dance and trophy-flash will have them 
 loving you again. And the fat thing (as long as you're not 500 pounds and desperate for in-game 
 sex) won't affect you.
  
  Overall, the pros outweigh the cons by an un-nameable amount. If it seemed like there were more 
 complaints than good things stated... I don't know why this is. Believe me when I say that if I 
 talked about all the good things (notice I didn't bring up the dog or enemies at all) , this would 
 be way longer and I would waste even more time I should be spending on homework. All in all: if 
 you liked the first one, you'll love this one; and if you've never played Fable before, it's still 
 a great RPG and you should still get it. If you read this review all the way through, congrats. 
 I'm proud of myself for this one. Enjoy the game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zenmaestro65
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 29, 2008 1:13 pm PT
Review:  I have been blown away by this game, possibly knocking Oblivion off the perch as my all time favourite 
 game.
  Getting the technical stuff done first, no complaints at all really, brill graphics, superb fighting 
 mechanics, great levelling system, great story. Nice unexpected part with the Spire.
  I am still on my first play through and despite having put in about fifty hours I have not finished 
 the story as I am savoring it (truth is I am running around getting laid and married and having 
 kids too much!) I found one Demon door, Memory Lane, which wont allow me into the shack with the 
 "A" prompt, also as a good and pure character I also find getting out of rooms hard because of 
 the swarms of people in love with me, I resist the temptation to take the safety off and use will 
 to blast myself out earning the acheivement as I like to stay in character. Though how my character 
 maintains his purity is surprising considering his sexual promiscity. Woman are his vice. Must 
 be his diet.
  
  Most stand out memorable moments for me are;
  
  Coming back after ten years and seeing the four of my children not in care grown up a bit.
  
 
  Being on a job quest to kill hobbes when I had six messages in succession saying my wife had died 
 and my child had been taken into care, my first thought was a bug but I checked and the six were 
 my six wives from the gypsy village and thats where the hobbes I was going for were attacking. 
 I felt really attached to the game at that particular point.
  
  The shock when fighting the seven room of the crucible and pressing the D-pad to heal not realising 
 it was alcohol, after a hectic fight I saw the screen blur and when it cleared I was fat, spent 
 the next hour travelling around buying all the celery and waiting for the shops to restock.
  
  The list could go on and on. I am looking forward to a second play through where I will be 
 evil.
  
  There are many reason to buy this game and none not to, however having just read the review site 
 on Fallout 3, THIS IS NOT A FIRST PERSON SHOOTER!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dethala
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 29, 2008 12:20 pm PT
Review:  A genuinely real world, real people, real combat, real substance and real emotion. 
  
  This really lets you feel as evil as Sauron or as heroic as Eragon. 
  
  This game took years 
 to make, and i would have waited another thousand if thats what it took them to get it this incredible. 
 
  
  Peter Moleneux is a God, and Jesus is a rat in comparison.
  
  I have never met a better voice-actor than Stefen Fry as Reaver or Zoe Wnnamaker as Thereasa. 
 
  
  The Dog is the best side-kick ever and Lucien so evil he deserves to have the same name as Lucien 
 Malfoy. 
  
  Tolkein and Rowling can step aside to whoever wrote this story. 
  
  Oblivion, Mass Effect, Gears of War and Halo can all join E. T in that rubbish dump in Mexico because 
 soon every game box in the world will have a disk in it labeled "Fable II."
  
  One last word, Best Birthday present ever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TimmonsP
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 29, 2008 11:04 am PT
Review:  Fable 1 on the XBOX was one of the best RPG's of the time, up there with the likes of Elder Scrolls 
 III: Marrowind, however, the good/evil side to fable and this idea of being a hero made it a brand 
 new experience that everyone came to love and enjoy.
  isnt without its negatives
  Fable 2 is the sequal, which has taken some new steps and new ideas to the RPG genre, some of which 
 are good, and some applied poorly.
  
  Lets start with the story. Set 500 years after the original Fable, Fable 2 follows the story of 
 a new hero who is accompanied by a faithful dog, whoes quest becomes to defeat the enemy Lucian. 
 I will not go into to details so i don't spoil anything.
  
  The gameplay is something i found rather fun. The one button combat system has been applied well 
 and means that any gamer from experienced to new can use it. With one button assigned to Magic, 
 mele and Ranged, you are able to mix them up and be rewarded by using them in a rythm with bonus 
 experience. Experience is earned each time you kill an enemy and you use this experience to level 
 up certain areas of you characters ability. Your dog also helps out in combat and will seek out 
 treasures for you. From his loyality you feel a strong connection with the dog and is one of the 
 best aspects of this game without a doubt.
  
  Throughout Fable 2 you are faced with moral choice which affect you good/evil and pure/corrupt 
 status and depend on what you do this can lean to one side or another changing the appearance of 
 you and your dog but unfortunately not to the humorous extremes that we saw in the first fable. 
 
  
  The grahpics can range from being rather impressive when it comes to lighting, especially the suns 
 light, and the natural enviroment but at other times the graphics appear rather poor but still 
 nothing that detracts from this game.
  
  There are so many good things about fable such as the fun quests, good gameplay, nice graphics 
 and a great amount of humour. The game is not without it's negatives however. 
  
  A multiplayer aspect has been added to fable 2 which is a brilliant idea for a consol RPG however 
 this has been applied rather poorly. The camera is shared so it's a constant fight for a better 
 camera angle, the guest in the world will not be able to bring his character or his dog. The multiplayer 
 is still rather fun but i hope it is altered.
  
  The Main story is also far to short, however there are a good amount of side quests, jobs and plenty 
 of buildings to buy and treasures to be found to keep you entertained. The ending of the game is 
 also pretty poor, with an anti-climax situation however it does lead on to a good choice situation 
 however there is only one choice you should make as one of the others can be acheieved over time, 
 the other will not make a difference for you apart from changing your moral status but the one 
 you should pick brings back one of the best bits of the game. 
  
  The game is also rather easy with foes being on the whole quite weak, slow to attack, and easy 
 to kill making the combat at times not very challenging, howver, this is understandable in a sense 
 since your suppose to be one of the greatest heros of all time.
  
  Overall Fable 2 is a game you should comsider, depending on who you are you may be slightly disappointed 
 or in love with the game but i feel this game had a lot of potential to be so much more.
  
  8.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sendmn23
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 29, 2008 10:10 am PT
Review:  If you ever played the first Fable then you'll be right at home with Fable 2. This game really 
 does feel like a true sequel in so many ways. heck you really do find yourself wanting to play 
 even after you beat the main quest. (Just like the first Fable!)
  The new option to play as male or female is a neat feature. (I chose the male of course.) I haven't 
 played through as a female so I imagine the total game experience might change a bit, but most 
 likely not that much. (Then again I'm not sure. I'll update if there is a big difference.)
  The one button combat is pretty comfortable once you get it. Its actually pretty complicated control 
 scheme even though it seems simple. It is what it should be comfortable, and user friendly. (not 
 like Dead space. I found that pretty confusing when certain situations got tense.
  You know one thing I really love in a well built game is atmosphere. Fable 2 pulls it off. You 
 really do feel like your in Albion. You really do feel like your part of the world, and part of 
 the community. From the moment you press start you know you're in for a treat. The music I really 
 enjoyed so much so that I never put on any custom sound tracks. (which is something I do all the 
 time with my X-box 360) I'm glad I bought this game. Its worth the 64.75 I payed for it. I'm glad 
 to support a studio as awesome as Lion Head studios.
  If you're looking for an immersive rpg with tons of great stuff to do? Then you definately owe 
 it to yourself to play this game. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: satan_89
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 29, 2008 10:05 am PT
Review:  Can you remember back to your young childhood when you fell off the swing and it gave you a scar? 
 Imagine if you could go back, change that, and then see what things would be like. In Fable II 
 the game starts you out as a poor beggar living in the streets. You meet this vendor who is peddling 
 some "magical" devices. A man, in the audience, buys a mirror, then the vendor tries to sell a 
 magical music box. Your sister turns to you and declares that the box is rubish and a waste of 
 money. A lady standing beside you turns and says that it's a dark time, if even children are too 
 world-weary to believe in magic. She turns to your sister and convinces her to buy the box, but 
 sadly it costs five cold pieces. In collecting these seemingly insignificant gold pieces, you get 
 some jobs and make some decisions. Will you give the boose to the drunk, or will you give it to 
 the wife who will help him get off the sauce? Will you destroy the shop owner's stock because he 
 didn't pay his protection money, or will you help him by killing the beatles of which he is phobic 
 of? What does it matter? In the world of Fable (Albion) every decision matters. Okay so you helped 
 the criminals and the drunks, what now? Some years later, you return to your hometown of bowerstone 
 and you go to the part of town where you grew up. The area is decrepid, run down, and crime riddled 
 because of your decisions. Now, let's say, you helped the store owner, gave the boose to the wife, 
 and helped the good people of bowerstone. When you return to the area in which you grow up, you 
 will see that everything you did made the people prosper. There is no crime, there is no poverty, 
 there is no sadness, and the town is less grey and more green. These are the kind of things that 
 you have to deal with from day to day in your experience of Fable. 
  
  Fable II makes you make choices and live with those choices. This is the only game that I know 
 of that you truly feel the consequences of your actions. The game can move you, and, in fact, the 
 final choice that you make in the game was such a hard decision for me to make that it truly hurt 
 my feelings to make one choice, knowing, that I couldn't make the others. This game has everything 
 you could want in an action RPG. I guess i understand where people are coming from when they say 
 the story is a little weak, because it does have some truth. The thing is that even though the 
 story may not be the best story I've ever played, I was drawn, completely, into the world. I felt 
 my actions, I saw the people running from me in fear, and I felt every decision I made. You can 
 choose to kill a farmer and if you do, that's the end of his story, but if you do not kill him 
 he goes on to be very prosperous with a huge farm and a loving family. When his son suggests that 
 they move to the city, his farm goes up for sale, and if you buy his farm you can gain money from 
 the crops, move your family there, and the farm holds its own secrets that you may or may not uncover.
 
  
  The game's graphics are beautiful. When you walk through a forest in fable, you can feel that it 
 is alive. It's so green with wildlife all scurrying from place to place. The light shining through 
 the trees leads to some truly beautiful scenes. One such scean is the sun is setting behind the 
 sea and you're watching from this beautiful mountain top. The art styling is quite unique with 
 all of these buildings have a bit of imagination in their construction. Not everything in Fable 
 is beautiful. When you actually go into an impoverished area you can't help but feel this aura 
 of hopelessness and violence. 
  
  I have played this game through twice already and am working on my third character. My first character 
 was, roughly, neutral: making some good choices, and some bad. My second character was all good, 
 making nothing but good and virtuous choices. My third character is pure evil, making bad choices 
 and sprouting horns fairly quickly. you can play three different alignment, three different combat 
 styles, and three different purity levels, with three final choices to make. My first character 
 was a sword using, pure, and fairly evil person. The second was a magic using, pure, good person. 
 My third is a pistol slinging, corrupt, evil person. All-in-all I have enjoyed ever alignment, 
 play style, and all of the final choices. 
  
  This game is a must buy for anyone who enjoys Oblivion-like games with huge universes and involving 
 gameplay. I give the sound a 9, the gameplay, a 9.5, the story an 8.5, and overall a 9.5. This 
 game is great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheSweetScience
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 29, 2008 9:48 am PT
Review:  Like myself, many people have been waiting for Fable 2 for a very long time. Let me just say, it 
 has been worth the wait. Fable 2 puts you in a detailed world that will have you hooked from when 
 you start until you've seen everything it has to offer.
  
  The main story line has its weak points, but in no way does it take away from the fun you will 
 have with this game. The story line can be short if rushed, but can also be fulfilling if you play 
 the game the way it was meant to be played. I am 33 hours into the game and STILL have not finished 
 the main story line.
  
  The world itself offers a good bit of extra content. Though you will see areas of the world that 
 are currently inaccessible, most likely you will go to it through a side quest. There are activity's 
 that are completely optional but still very fun, such as hunting the worlds 50 gargoyles, or finding 
 the 50 silver keys spread across Albion. All in all, very fulfilling.
  
  The combat is fun all around. Most melee weapons having a few unique animations and guns have a 
 unique targeting system. The spells, on the other hand, feel unfinished. Some of the spell animations 
 are really nice, but there are so few spells and they feel useless in latter parts of the game 
 that you will probably not ever see them.
  
  Some things aren't what they are cracked up to be, such as families and your dog, but they are 
 still fun. The money earning system is a lot better this time around. You really struggle at first 
 but once you've built a monopoly, you will most likely never be strapped for cash. This is how 
 it would be in real life. 
  
  Now, we will get to the cons of the game. When I first turned on the game and moved my character, 
 I almost stopped playing. You feel like you are always walking on ice. The character control should 
 have definitely been worked on more, but you get used to it. There are also too many glitches for 
 a retail game. My dogs head would disappear when I opened a chest, he would climb up walls and 
 fences that are completely vertical, and your hero will also get stuck in places while running 
 around. It doesn't sound horrible, but it is enough to get on your nerves. The free roam, while 
 great, leaves you wanting more. You can jump fences, cliffs, and some ledges, but it almost always 
 leads you to the same place. If I had to compare the free roam to another game, it would be final 
 fantasy 12, ONLY because you can free roam the map but you almost always end up going to the same 
 place. Final Fantasy 12 has tons more extra content than Fable 2, just to straighten that out. 
 A few clipping issues about tops it off.
  
  I have left a lot of things out of this review for the sake of the person reading (it is already 
 long enough) , but my final word for this game is to go buy it RIGHT NOW!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bowser_breath
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 29, 2008 7:17 am PT
Review:  I have to say i was looking forward to this game for weeks. Pre-ordered and bought on release, 
 I was very excited to see how the Fable series had evolved, being a massive fan of the first.
 
  
  Before I start the review, I would like to say my comments seem negative at first, but I think 
 this is a truly fantastic game; and loved every minute of it, so don't get me wrong. 
  
  Graphics: 9.3/10
  
  Great graphics always help you become immersed in any game, and this is 
 no exception. The area that scores the most points for me is the lighting effects. Theirs nothing 
 greater than walking through an idyllic countryside, watching the sun rise/ set. 
  
  Gameplay: 8.7/10
  
  The 'one button' combat system worried me when Molyneux first mentioned 
 it, as i like advanced combat. However, it works better than I thought it would, with the exception 
 of magic. Ranging and Melee feel just as fluid as ever, but magic seems to become a chore, and 
 you'll find yourself predominantly using only 1-2 spells throughout the game. 
  
  Sound: 9.6/10
  
  The new revamped Fable soundtrack is truly great, and is now quite recognisable. 
 It looks like Fable has found its theme song. The music plays accordingly with what you are doing. 
 Whether you are walking through a town, the music will be relaxed; but when you're ambushed by 
 bandits it becomes frantic and fast. 
  
  Story: 8/10
  (Don't worry I wont say any spoilers...)
  
  The story is quite intruiging, and builds up throughout 
 the whole main quest, but the ending is massively dissapointing. However, as Fable 2 has really 
 upped the choices/ morale part of the series, the ending will seriously challenge you on a choice 
 you have to make out of 3. Lets just say I chose my best friend. 
  
  CONCLUSION
  
  Fable 2 is a must have for any RPG/ action fan, as it really transforms the series into current 
 gen. For the better, who knows? Everyone has a different opinion, but i personally believe Fable 
 1 was a bit more 'magical'. 
  
  But this game!!
  P. S If you're a Halo Fan, buy the Limited Collecter's Edition.
  
  FINAL SCORE: 9.1/10
  Review 
 by bowser_breath. (GT: Hayden0117) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stormcrawler
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 29, 2008 5:57 am PT
Review:  Well, my opinion of Gamespot is pretty much ZERO and has been for quite the time, considering they 
 judge games on whether you can dance in them or not. They gave this game an 8.5, a common score 
 among them, but they gave GTA 4 a perfect 10, now, now how is GTA 4 superior to Fable 2 gamespot?. 
 Fable isn't everything it was hyped up to be but that's only natural. Molyneaux described the game 
 from his point of view, which so far has been pretty accurate and i can see he gave his all into 
 this game. The enviroment is breath-taking, the voice acting is capturing, and the combat is very 
 stylish and makes you feel big and mighty, though it can get repetitive if you focus entirely on 
 one aspect of combat but that is something that every game shares, even with movies. The dark knight 
 is one of the best movies i have seen but you can't watch it 4 times without getting bored of it 
 eh?
  It has been obvious from the start that Gamespot had little interest in the game, judging from 
 the sad excuse of updates on the game and the launch center did absolutely nothing, so my opinion 
 of your score on this game, gamespot, is N/a. And i can see from the players reviewing the game 
 here that their review is actually far better than your's "suck up", not as much of a choice of 
 fancy words but the core of their review is at least pure. I friendly invite every member of gamespot 
 to kick their staff repetitively in the groin. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jimmmmmy1
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 29, 2008 4:47 am PT
Review:  Peter Molyneux promised us the world and he delivered the Moon. 
  
  Fable II is an absolutely delightful romp through the well imagined world of Albion, and you'll 
 fall in love with the atmosphere and characters that surround you. From your dog to your family, 
 if you so choose to have one, you will truly feel impatient to get back to them, and the emotional 
 attachment forged is very real. 
  
  The battle system is simple yet extremely addictive, and you'll feel very satisfied weather your 
 clipping heads off bandits with your pistol, or slaying multiple Hobbes with your whirling blade, 
 or even removing the skin from hapless villagers with your magical arsenal.
  
  That being said, there are some minor glitches in the game, that will hopefully be addressed soon. 
 Occasional freezing and slow down, coupled with the resulting restarts can grate heavily on your 
 nerves... though it is a credit to Lionhead studios that you will restart, take it in stride, and 
 keep right on playing till your eyes hurt in the wee hours of the morning.
  
  If you can overlook these flaws the game deserves a 9.0, and if you cannot it still easily slides 
 in at 8.5. If you need to make the choice between Fallout 3 and Fable II, I implore you to ask 
 yourself this question: "Do I want to feel love?" Fable II delivers.
  
  Round of applause to Peter M for this fantastic game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RLJSlick
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 28, 2008 9:46 pm PT
Review:  The World of Albion is a massive world, you have a lot of freedom to move around in Fable II, and 
 to explore the world and take missions in whatever order you want to. Similar to the first Fable, 
 you start off as a kid, this time you have a sister and a pet. The pet, a dog, become your best 
 and really only friend in the game, he goes everywhere you go, and love you even if you don't pay 
 much attention to him, but it's a lot of fun to have him do tricks and chase the ball. Also when 
 your dog advance a bit he will help you fight, though he doesn't seem to do much damage it's good 
 to have him around.
  The graphics in Fable is real done, but nothing world breaking or anything but the animation is 
 good and very smooth. The sound in the game is about on par with the last game, with voiceover 
 of all the character but you. I just don't understand why everyone can talk but the main character? 
 That will lower the grade in the game, because there isn't any reason other than time and money 
 to have a voiceover for the main character. 
  There are tons to do in the game, you can find jobs, to earn money, you can do mission or quest 
 and you have a choice to be good or bad in the game. In fact that is the main goal in the game 
 is making choices. If you go and do good deeds you will eventual will get a halo over your head, 
 but if you are a bad guy, you will grow horns. There is a few things I don't like about this system, 
 first if you are playing good its too easy to accidently hit your B button and throw a spell at 
 people that you didn't want to injure or scare. I can't tell you how many times I hit the B button 
 in the middle of the town, and scared the bjesus out of the town folk. You can also get married 
 and have kids, but you will find out soon enough you are much better off to ignore that side of 
 the game, since they (family) tend to detract from the game, and your wife will get on your every 
 living nerves very fast.
  This is a amazingly fun game to play, the game isn't perfect, and it can get a bit repetitive really 
 fast but you will need to do those things to build up money and get better weapons. You can also 
 play co-op which I thought was a bit odd but found it to be a lot of fun if you find the right 
 friend with the right mindset. The game is well worth be too called Fable II
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Razor_cc_atu
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 28, 2008 8:37 pm PT
Review:  This game is definitely one that I would recommend. There are some issues about money being too 
 easy to get and leveling up is quite easy, especially if you use the "cheats" available, but this 
 is a great title and just as good if not better than the first Fable.
  
  I personally can't do the Extremely in depth RPG's like Elder Scrolls but this one feels right. 
 I was getting near the end of the game and thought to myself, "wow that was kinda short," and then 
 realized that I had been playing for 24 hours. It is a good sign when a game does that. Other RPG's 
 seem to drag on and on but this did flow well.
  
  I haven't talked much about the game it self so here it is in a nut shell
  -Story Line is lacking 
 but is easy to get into and follow.
  -Multi-player can be fun, especially if you get together and ransack villages.
  -The dog adds 
 a fun, if unnecessary, aspect.
  -Playing evil characters is more difficult to advance than good characters, but rightfully so. 
 (no real person wants to live near a terrorist)
  -Magic can be difficult to use.
  -Melee was a little buggy but who really blocks anyway?
  
  
  Overall this is a great game 
 and one that I would recommend and I will play over and over again. This game is for both the hard 
 core and casual gamers alike.
  
  Send me an IM if you ever want some help ransacking Bowerstone! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Saint_Ducky
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 28, 2008 7:19 pm PT
Review:  Every Xbox 360 owner should play Fable 2. It's a fun, addictive, immersive experience that leaves 
 you wanting more every time you turn off your console. If you can pull away from it, that is :P 
 The combat works exactly the way that it should; It's fluid, easy to get used to, and looks awesome. 
 I love interacting with the people in the world and playing games with my dog. Speaking of the 
 dog, I think P. M. did a very good job with him. He acts intelligently and is a good replacement 
 for the mini-map, encouraging and helping you explore off the beaten path. The only things that 
 I can find wrong with it at this point are very small cosmetic issues, like when you're running 
 and turning, it looks like your hero is sliding on ice, and the textures, as good as they are, 
 aren't exactly up to par, but I suppose that's about it. Bottom Line: Rush out and get this game 
 as soon as possible XD 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Clovers16
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 28, 2008 6:24 pm PT
Review:  Fable II is an RPG that I highly reccomend for any fan of the series. The "choose your path" formula 
 works very well and you can truly make your own destiny in this game. It is a vast and beautiful 
 looking environment in Fable and it is sure to keep you exploring. The game however does fall short 
 in some aspects. Character interaction is very dullish. Although you do have many option about 
 how to "communicate" with NPC's, they feel that they dont have much depth to them. Another downer 
 was that the map is absolutely childish and makes it hard to use. The storyline itself isnt too 
 complex but is very engaging and diverse in its own right. The numerous amounts of quests vary 
 from all sorts of tasks and can be completed in numerous ways, wich yet again gives the game the 
 feeling of freedom and choice. This is a very good RPG and I would highy reccomend it. It is a 
 blast and tons of fun to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bgkdog101
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 28, 2008 5:28 pm PT
Review:  Even though many people did not like Fable: TLC very much, I myself did not hype it up and found 
 it to be my favorite game I had ever played... until now. I realize that this review is starting 
 to sound very biased right off the bat, but aside from a couple little things this game could not 
 be improved any. Many have complained that there isn't as much open-endness as promised by Molyneux. 
 In response, I personally think that if the game was any more open-ended it would take away from 
 the story and overall atmosphere. There is also no mini-map as well, which is very very good, but 
 would make an open-ended world much too confusing. The major perks I got from Fable 2 are: Infinite 
 Mana bar, tons of quests, the addition of jobs and real estate, and the sheer realistic approaches 
 it takes. Obviously there are many unrealistic things in this game, but Realism and Fantasy are 
 meshed quite well. The only things that I didn't like were the tedious menu navigation, loading 
 times, and no option to discard items. These are all very easily overlooked though. Overall, this 
 game is a must buy. 9.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Luigi123260
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 28, 2008 3:53 pm PT
Review:  Let me start off by saying that Fable 2 is a good game, but thats is only half the story. It does 
 suffer from various technical glitches such as I jumped off a ledge and my dog try to follow me 
 but he froze, he couldn't move so I left the area sat through one of the longest loading screens 
 I ever seen and then came back and found that had fixed the glitch but I had wasted 6 minutes. 
 Another is when my dog walked straight through a picket fence and then had to jump over it to get 
 back to me. The load screens are ridiculous and they just keep going and going and going they never 
 seem to stop.
  Gaining gold is also to easy I have bought some many house I get 4000 gold every five minutes and 
 even if I not playing I get 4000 every 5 minute. Being good is hard and evil is easy, but like 
 is said before it is still a great game and I recommend it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hintaki
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 28, 2008 2:07 pm PT
Review:  Story:
  You choose a male or female hero, once you choose either one you can begin your quest. Your sibling 
 had died from a dreadful person who just only want power. You were injured and taken in by a mystrious 
 person that helps your journey and begin your quest to revenge you sibling.
  
  Pros:
  Has interesting quest and a lot of quest to do after you finished
  Make money quite fast
  Can 
 easily beat the game in two days or so
  Different Jobs or make an empire by building up (buying house, bars, stores etc..)
  Can raise 
 your family and own a dog to help you find treasures.
  Make money every five minutes when playing or not playing in real time.
  Cons:
  It's quite 
 glitchy and the graphics looks average.
  Too short, might get boring after a few quests but still decent
  The monsters are quite the same 
 an boring after a while
  Jobs can be boring after a while but at least you can make some money off it.
  
  This game 
 is unique in its own way, if you the type of person who spend quite some time building up characters 
 this is the game for RPG's. This game is quite easy and fast as well.
  
  Reviewed By ~Hintaki~ thanks for reading my review.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: LazyBum0889
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 28, 2008 1:56 pm PT
Review:  Fable 2 was fun, and thats about it. I agree with everyone who says that there is nothing new in 
 the game-play or the story, but the game was fun. You have to look passed the whole Fable 2 wasn't 
 made to be an alternate life, as opposed to World of Warcraft, to really enjoy the game. People 
 who go into the game looking for the next best thing will fall short of their journey.
  
  We have came to a time where there are two different types of RPG's in the gaming society. The 
 action oriented and the strategy oriented, both varying in complexity and length. Fable 2 is definitely 
 an action oriented RPG. At times almost feeling like an arcade game rather than a console game. 
 You can pick it up and play for 15 minutes and get the same excitement out of it as you would if 
 you played 2-3 hours. This is great for those casual gamers.
  
  I find myself at this conclusion, I am sorely disappointed yet happily pleased with the game. I 
 was wanting more depth but I have gotten lost in a web of complexity. The game is fun, that is 
 all, but isn't that what games are supposed to be?
  
  I want more clothes, and I want a kick dog expression. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DeanCorleone
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 28, 2008 1:20 pm PT
Review:  The world in itself, the scripting and how people interact is wonderful. This is the first game 
 that you can get a STD in (that isn't some porn game.) . The dog can be annoying with all the dig 
 spots it finds, treasure chests take to long to open, along with digging, and I'm tired of games 
 that have a 'collect' all the items theme in the back drop. The Game is still very interesting 
 I am in no way saying don't buy it - how ever, be prepaired for long load times, a rather unfulfilling 
 story, and rather annoying terrain to walk through.... below are a list of the pros and cons in 
 my opinion.
  
  Pros: Highly detailed, family scripts, dog scripts, ability to own everything in sight, fighting, 
 not having to worry about mana, ability to shape the world depending upon how you act, being able 
 to have your character wear what you want without having a armor cost.
  
  Con: Co-op painfully share the same camera, lame story, short story, money system is easy to over-come, 
 easy to max our your character in no time, very annoying to use potions which grant experience, 
 the 'free-roam' word they keep throwing around is not entirely true - you will be forced down road-ways 
 and paths 90% of your gameplay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mattsac122
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 28, 2008 1:01 pm PT
Review:  Fable 2 is a quality game that should be played. That said, it lacks the depth of other RPG's in 
 terms of character development and story. I think the guys at lionhead think that you can replace 
 character and story development with sandbox elements. You cannot. 
  
  The main story takes under 7 hours to complete. It is a very easy game. The combat is quick to 
 master and there is a golden trail that leads you exactly where you need to go for every quest. 
 Add to that map travel and no death penalty and you have a recipe for a quick ride. 
  
  The sandbox element and achievements are worth a look.
  However, the shear lack of armor and 
 outfits is ridiculous. Very limiting
  
  Overall, Fable 2 left me wanting more. I have played through 2 times, collected all the property 
 and weapons I wanted. Got my achievements and got out. I hope they do some good DLC in the future. 
 
  
  They need to add weapons and armor. Although about weapons, your best weapon is maxed out magic. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ssj-gokou
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 29, 2008 7:21 am PT
Review:  The novelty of the Fable series seems to have worn of some with this newest installment. Fable 
 2 with its revamped combat system and moving us 500 years into the future seemed like good concepts. 
 But starting a new doesn't seem to have paid off as well as all would have hoped.
  
  The basic and essential ideas like clothing and weapons that will be with you all game are unique
 
  as well as blah and unimpressive. The character morphs from good to evil are lesser than even 
 that of the first Fable. I like many was looking forward to transforming into complete evil and 
 looking the part of a demon like that pictured in the first game trailer and on the Fable 2 cover. 
 Instead I came off looking more like goat man than a hell spawn.
  
  The money system through very effect and convenient, as time goes on serves to only take away from 
 the enjoyable experience of finally having enough money saved up to buy that fantastic weapon upgrade. 
 It lacks the finesse of the first Fable in that trading was the main means to gain wealth while 
 owning buildings however fun was a very distant second. Not to mention the main exploit that many 
 have used involving the system time clock on the 360 which allows the game to think that real years 
 have past and so pays you accordingly. This allowing a gamer to obtain thousands even millions 
 within a few mins.
  
  The game itself is bigger and has great visuals. But personally I'd have preferred areas of the 
 same size as the first Fable merely more of them. Instead we have less areas that are simply larger 
 than that of the first Fable.
  
  The story begins well enough but all but dies within the first few quests and hours while playing. 
 If you play as evil you'll find your choices, paths and quests limited and interaction with people 
 pretty tiring. The story finally picks up again when you complete main parts like recruiting the 
 3 other heroes in the game to your cause but this added with the ending serves only leave the player 
 unfulfilled due to the lack of depth. In general there are 4 to 5 quests that really matter that 
 will actually change the world in which you play in with a major visual impact. But sadly this 
 choices are few and far in between. This leads to a lesser replay value sense the game favors a 
 good character in general offering them more choices you'll probably only play through was an evil 
 character for the achievements. Like a few I was in aw that the ability to completely destroy some 
 towns and villages would be a possible while others could be made into full cities. This feature 
 seems to have been played up and hyped to the point of simply being out right false.
  
  Lastly the glitches that inhabit Fable 2 are some of the worst possible. Reports coming in with 
 the Fable being so taxing on some 306's that they are getting a RROD appearing on the console. 
 This paired with frequent loading times, spells that don't hit enemies that are moving too close 
 to you, game freezes and disappearing characters including your dog add up to a disappointing experience 
 for a game that has been hyped as being everything that Fable was and so much more. Fable 2 absolutely 
 requires patching and a expansion to complete what feels more and more like a simple upgrade to 
 Fable 1.5. As much as The Lost Chapters was a fantastic addition but not needed for the first Fable; 
 Fable 2 needs a lost Chapters to clean it up, add more depth and story to a game that doesn't look, 
 play or feel finished. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: reign357
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 28, 2008 12:25 pm PT
Review:  To start off, i am in no way bias against this game. If anything, I'm bias towards Fable 2. I was 
 a HUGE fan of the first Fable, and it was one of my favorite games. Following the development of 
 this game for over a year, i was completely pumped to get my hands on Fable 2. However, i was really 
 let down by it. I expected the best, considering how good Fable 1 was. But, this game seems almost 
 like its made by a different game studio, in which its very different. The game seems very much 
 like it was rushed to the deadline, and throughout the game you will encounter MANY MANY bugs, 
 glitches, and gray areas. 
  
  Storyline - This was my main disappointment with Fable 2. The story is not too promising, and i 
 kept finding myself becoming less and less interested in playing this game. The story is very quick, 
 brief, and really is just short overall. My first time around beating this game took me about 8 
 hours. Not too good in my book, but whatever floats your boat. 
  Now, personally, i expected Fable 2 to be the kind of game where everything you do affects the 
 outcome of the story. Fable 1 was pretty good in that category, however this is not. The story 
 for the most part is the same whether you make evil or good choices, with the exception. There 
 is 3 different endings, which are only cinematics, that you can literally choose from by pressing 
 a button at the end of the game. Sorry if that's a spoiler for you guys.
  
  Gameplay - I think this is where most people get their 9.0 and 8.5+ ratings from. The gameplay 
 is good, and how the choices you are able to make are pretty good, even though they didnt meet 
 my expectations. You can mess up your game by making evil choices, and better it by making good. 
 This game isnt so much as a "hack and slash" as others, because of the multiple attack styles you 
 can have. The magic or spells of the game are what really blew me away. They are very well made, 
 and really bring out the graphics of the game where in most of the parts they were lacking. Theres 
 a big area for what you can do in terms of attacking with your melee and ranged weapons, which 
 i did like. And again, like i said, the spells were a really big bonus for the game.
  
  Graphics - I hate to say it, but the graphics of Fable 2 also were a bit of a let down for me. 
 Going hand in hand with the extremely glitchy and rushed smoothness and content of the game, the 
 graphics really were not too good. They really kind of prove to me that the developers really did 
 not use the Xbox 360 to its fullest, as many other games are beginning to. The lighting in the 
 game is wonderful, however, and it covers up for a decent amount of the graphical ruggedness. However, 
 close up faces, edges, and textures really are pretty bad if you get a closer look. Mainly through 
 the 'first person' view are they really at their worst.
  
  Online/Live - The online was a plus. I really liked how they did the Live for this game, and it 
 was something i had never seen or played in a game before. If you turn it on, throughout the entire 
 single player, no matter where you are, you can see orbs that represent other players connected 
 to Xbox Live. You can talk to them through the headset, and can have discussions with 30 people 
 at once. The orbs show the player's gamertag, and you can select them and trade or play co-op with 
 the other plays. 
  Being at this, the co-op however, i was not too fond of. Its kind of weird, and i really would 
 have liked it if you could use your single player character on co-op. Only the host of the game 
 can, but the 2nd player still has their health, skills, and amount of experience, but not their 
 weapons, clothes, or items. Pretty odd if you ask me. Another reason why i truly think this game 
 was rushed, you can really tell where they had to make quick decisions and didn't think too well.
 
  
  Overall - Overall, i think Fable 2 is worth RENTING. Like i said, i beat the game in a little under 
 2 days and then no longer wanted to play it. Theres about 10-15 quests you can do after finishing 
 the game, but theyre all really boring and you might (or at least i did) find yourself not wanting 
 to do them. The live really isnt too addicting and is really hard to get into a game, as there 
 is no Xbox Live menu, and the only way you can really connect to someones game is if you have someone 
 on your friends list to play with or find a random person in the game and add them to your friend's 
 list.
  Rent the game, dont buy it. Trust me. I used to be a total Fable 1 fanboy and now i find myself 
 not liking the game whatsoever. It gets old pretty quick. I bought it, and today am returning it 
 and exchanging it for a copy of Fallout 3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Scrantonicity2
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 28, 2008 4:25 pm PT
Review:  I'll start by saying that I adored the original Fable, and have been anxiously awaiting the return 
 to Albion.
  
  The problem is that Fable II does little to nothing better than the first installment of the series, 
 and in fact introduces a number of flawed game decisions that ultimately hamper the new game.
 
  
  The Good:
  +It's still a 'Fable' game at it's core, so it's still fun and largely the same formula as the 
 first.
  
  +I like the addition of having a pet dog. It's really one of the best things about Fable II.
 
  
  The Bad:
  -The game has decent graphics, but the frame rates are horribly slow. I wouldn't be surprised if 
 the game was running at 15 fps. If any type of water is being displayed, you are probably talking 
 10 fps. In general, the game might look nice and there are no major graphical flaws, but it's far 
 from a 'fast' and 'smooth' experience.
  
  In general, I thought the original Fable not only looked better (minus the hi-res display of the 
 2nd) , but more importantly ran much smoother.
  
  -The music is worse. The theme from the original Fable game is pretty much nowhere to be found. 
 There is way less music in general, and more silence throughout the entire game. If you like walking 
 around in silence, then you won't mind, but I preferred having a soundtrack to the experience. 
 It's pretty disappointing, considering the original Fable had some of the best music ever written 
 in a video game.
  
  -The combat system is 'easier' and more 'intuitive', which means a 2-year old could pick up a controller, 
 mash any combination of 3 buttons, and end up performing just about as well as 'the pwnerer'.
 
  
  The original game was harder to 'master' combat, but was therefore more rewarding. It sounds like 
 I'm in the minority, but pressing 3 buttons over and over again isn't fun.
  
  -The game isn't challenging. If you're a good enough 'gamer' to play through any FPS, then you 
 can beat Fable II without dieing... EVER. I seem to be in the minority again, judging from other 
 peoples reviews, but I grew up with games like Contra & Battle Toads that actually were challenging 
 and rewarding when you beat them.
  
  -The main story is WAY too short. I don't understand how this hasn't been fixed, because the original 
 Fable suffered from the same problem. You'd think Lionhead would have looked at the criticisms 
 of the first game, and made a main quest that was more engaging and longer.
  
  No.
  
  Instead, the main quest is less interesting; the enemies are worse and less varied, the story is 
 worse, and the quests are more generic. The colosseum sequence from the first game was epic. The 
 bosses in the first game might not have been 'hard', but at least they were cool. In this game, 
 you fight a lot of boring generic enemies, and can finish the main quest in a day.
  
  -The 'golden path' feature makes the game easier, and is sometimes buggy (you go one direction, 
 then go another, then go back to your original direction) . Also, there is no sense of exploration 
 when you are constantly following a yellow brick road to exactly where you are supposed to go at 
 all times. There's no map of all of Albion, which means you hop from one area to another, without 
 any sense of cohesion or connection between locations.
  
  -There seem to be less weapons & there is no armor. This means that you'll be using pretty much 
 a few weapons, and won't even care about what you are wearing because it's for 'looks' and 'attractiveness' 
 instead of kicking @$$.
  
  Final Thoughts:
  In all, Fable II is somewhat disappointing. The more I play the game, the more I'd rather be playing 
 the original Fable, which is a better and more interesting experience. Lionhead spent a lot of 
 time adding useless elements to Fable II. They expanded upon the 'social' aspects of the game. 
 You can buy more clothes, you can marry chicks and have sex with them, you can buy more property 
 and influence economies. The list goes on and on.
  
  The problem is that the original Fable was a lot of fun because the fighting mechanics were great, 
 the enemies were cool, and the main quest (while short) , was tons of fun.
  
  Instead of creating a longer, more engaging, and more interesting main quest with deeper combat 
 and a better story. Lionhead dumbed down the original game play, did nothing to lengthen the story 
 and main quest, but added a bunch of fluff for players to waste time with (social, economic, jobs, 
 etc.) .
  
  This doesn't mean that Fable II is a bad game, but fans of the original game should beware, and 
 most definitely consider renting this one.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: rktPYZQShWz
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 28, 2008 12:01 pm PT
Review:  I waited a year for this game oh so very hyped by the infamous Peter Molyneux. I always believed 
 he would deliver and he did knocking this game up to my #1. 
  
  To start off I would have to say I felt connected to these game I actually never wanted to put 
 it down. This game was alive or at least in my mind. Almost ever action or choice has some sort 
 of effect on the story, place, or side quest. Like if you get married twice some guy needs a bribe 
 or else he'll rat you out on your wives, or if you loan money to this guy he turns a camp into 
 a town! The Children are a wonderful edition and actually make you feel connected to them. The 
 world is wondrous and gigantic and fully detailed. I would have to say however the best feature 
 in this game is the dog. Without the dog the drama wouldn't exist in Fable II. He gives no annoyances 
 and forces you to fall in love with him. 
  
  Fable II will be the start of Molyneux road to greatness. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fandango_Letho
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 28, 2008 11:49 am PT
Review:  Fable 2 is not really a one of a kind game like its father promised. Although, while it fails in 
 many ways, it succeeds in some others.
  
  The game's artistic design is vibrant and majestic. You really feel like you are playing in this 
 fairy-tale world with bright colors, oddly designed lanterns and caravans, victorian clothing and 
 lush forests. Bowerstone under snow during the first hour of the game is magnificient. Oddly enough, 
 you'll never encounter it again, killing one of the most beautiful scenary of the game within it's 
 prologue.
  
  The combat, while simple, is very attractive to look at. There's a fair ammount of side-quests, 
 and they're better than the main storytelling. Most of them are hilarious, and very cleverly designed.
 
  
  But of course, there's also the not-so-good aspects of the game. Let's start on the graphics. While 
 gorgeous in style, the engine strutters in menus and frequent ( and inexcusable ) loading time 
 cripples the game's pacing. The character suffers from button and joystick lag. Don't believe me 
 ? Move your dude around in Fable 2, and then switch to any other third person action game, even 
 Fable 1, and you'll notice how clunky the game feels.
  
  Is it game breaking ? No. Like any pain, you'll get used to it. It'll become a second nature, until 
 you play something else and come back. Your main character feels like he's gliding on the ground, 
 and sometimes doing precise manoeuvers is one kind of a task.
  
  The gunplay is rather weak, since you must '' hold '' the Y button to aim AND shoot, resulting 
 in some unwanted actions from time to time during the heat of the fight, like losing your aim, 
 or just not being able to body-target like you want. The same concept applies to magic, wich works 
 fine. As for melee combat, while I said it looked great, it's still oddly implemented.
  
  The game's storyline is plain bad. You are a '' hero '' and you must save the world. You can be 
 evil or good, but your choices don't affect the main storyline or its main quest. Being evil unlocks 
 some different settings, but really, its not worth the trouble of playing through the game again 
 for some zones that changes. Also, you cannot kill important characters like the one who you know 
 i'm talking about. Fable 2 failed to make you feel like you carved your own Fable world, like PM 
 promised, but rather being a pawn for some dull events.
  
  Your dog is a neat addition, but never did I feel an attachement to it, even when ( SPOILERS ) 
 he got shot at the end, I said '' lulz oh noooes ''.
  
  Fable 2 offers about... 10 different types of enemies, wich is ridiculously small. You'll always 
 fight the same monsters, and they're exactly the same as in Fable 1. That's just bad.
  
  The whole system about making money with real estate, is just a mean to rack money while you're 
 not playing ( wich means if you fast forward your console clock 5 years ahead, you're rich. ) and 
 the familly thing is just a gimmick that doesnt work. You can't do crap with your familly other 
 than doing some stupid expressions and give them gifts through clunky menus.
  
  Speaking of stupid expression, you can't talk, but you can express yourself with comical and ridiculous 
 ( in a bad way ) expressions. The whole thing about adjusting a slider to make someone likes you 
 creates a huge plastic feel to everything, thus making the people in Fable very bland.
  
  Fable 2 lasts for about 20 hours of content, side quests and gargoyles and statues included. It's 
 not worth doing it again on the evil side, since you don't affect the main storyline at all. Only 
 side-quests and some towns can be changed.
  
  I give it a 8 out of 10, because i've played better lots of RPG's that felt a lot better and more 
 complete in the end, like The Witcher and Oblivion. Fable 2 was a decent try, but looked better 
 on paper than in execution. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: socomplayer100
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 28, 2008 10:00 am PT
Review:  This game was awesome, i enjoyed this game... well... i still do!! I like that you have a companion, 
 the dog...
  
  Although I like the first fables the best... this game was right after - my favorite game for the 
 360... and then Mass Effect following right behind! I do wish that they would have added maybe a 
 little more detail about Jack of Blades, maybe even a fight with him... that would have been awesome, 
 i sure hope there is going to be a third and final fable to rule them all!! it could be about Jack 
 of Blades cheating death yet again to fulfill his one dream and plan... to rule all of Albion, and 
 hopefully keep the dog though!!! he is just cool, and a big help for finding treasure and money.
 
  
  FABLE 2 FABLE: LC
  Story - Satisfactory Awesome 
  Gameplay - Great Good
  Charactors - Great Great
  Final Boss' - Okay Perfect 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TINMAN180
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 28, 2008 9:15 am PT
Review:  Why, why, why is Peter Molyneux such a liar? Don't get me wrong, I loved Fable 2 and I was addicted 
 to it for about 5 days b/c it is definitely fun, but there are a number of things wrong with it:
 
  
  Combat is kind of shallow and easy
  Main Quest is too short
  Too easy to make money
  No armor
  Generic Story
  No Arena (Ok the crucible but you can't even see any of the audience, 
 and it's the same fights every time. I want the arena from Fable 1)
  Legendary Weapons are too few and they are terrible
  Too few weapons for that matter
  Shallow 
 characters
  You can't become the awesome demon from the graphic art on front of the box.
  NO FINAL BOSS FIGHT!! WHY????????? stupid stupid stupid.
  
  The good:
  Bigger map than Fable 
 1
  Cool areas
  Clothes are cool but I want armor too
  The dog
  Graphics are good (not great) 
  Despite it's massive faults, it's still fun to play through.
 
  
  I just think that Peter M. has really great ideas and then he bastardizes them to no end. He says 
 there are 5 more Fables on the way. I hope for the next game, he takes a page out of Bethesda's 
 book, or Bioware's; Two great companies making amazingly profound and complete RPGs. Stop lying 
 to us Peter. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: cjok1294
Rating: 6
Date: Oct 28, 2008 9:12 am PT
Review:  I really am starting to regret buying Fable 2 as it was an unfortunate waste of 40 for me. Even 
 though the Gameplay is fun and quirky to begin, it slowly becomes tedious and in the end it was 
 a battle to squeeze out the last ounce of fun Fable 2 has to offer.
  
  I was expecting a great deal from such a hyped up game but I found a disappointing fantasy RPG 
 lacking alot of customization offers which to me are very appealing. The weapons are VERY limited 
 down to what shape you want slung over your back and the armour is simply not there. Instead we 
 have clothes which look funny but, for me this takes out a good essence of gameplay, a satisfactory 
 reward for hard work/currency. The storyline is very weak and when you have finished it you really 
 are wanting something, ANYTHING to come up and lead you onto a whole new quest.
  
  I remember maybe four months ago Peter Molyuneux was hyping the whole dog as a companion thing 
 as a tremendous feature which would bring a new perspective of A. I. I was however horribly disappointed 
 by this feature as the crummy little mutt does nothing. If you get fat, he gets a little chubby, 
 if you are evil he turns black, if you are a saint he turns brown (yawn) . As for A. I. all the thing 
 does it show you where blindingly obvious treasure is, show you where the next invisible dig spot 
 is and... that's it. Dog idea = FAIL.
  
  Although those are the negative views, in the eight hours it took me to complete it I did have 
 fun. The story, although short is definitely fun and has some laugh out loud humour in it as well 
 as stunning visuals which are really highlighted when you pull off a rank 5 lightning spell and 
 send those evil minions flying! A small feature which i thought was good was the golden glowing 
 trail which leads you to your next quest destination, in such a large [bland :' (] map it is easy 
 to get lost so such a feature rarely found in 21st century video games is warmly welcomed.
  
  The online co-op brings a mixture of thoughts as, even though it is fun scoring big gamerscore 
 or performing a devastating combo with a buddy it is almost ruined by a feature so delicate, the 
 camera.
  
  It is not worth the money but would be a fantastic rental game as the single player does shine, 
 it is a huge shame that this brief over-exaggerated title could not have focused on bigger issues 
 like length and end-game content rather than small details which in the end are unnoticed or simply 
 unimpressive.
  
  Verdict= a fun ride but it is short, sadly overhyped and sends you on a rampage trying to find 
 that o-so-precious receipt. Lionhead should spend less time promising, and tweaking little features 
 and make a bloody game worth the money we paid for! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Calmed_Fury
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 3, 2008 7:48 pm PT
Review:  I was looking forward to this game for years and I wanted to believe all the hype but it just did 
 not reach it. The combat is a blast. I loved the ability to charge up different will powers. I 
 had a great system going for me that had a different power at each charge level. The ability to 
 make the choices you want to is great as well. But the ending of the game had such a terrible boss 
 battle that I had to deduct 1.5 points just for that. I took one shot and he died. Such an unsatisfying 
 finish to an great game. The other .5 points is for the online co-op system which doesnt allow 
 my buddy to jump in with his stats and will powers at his disposal. He has to use a preset sytem 
 which is stupid. Overall excellent game but the finale was abysmal. I didnt even get to use all 
 of the great will powers I had developed over the course of the game to finish him off. So thats 
 10-.5 for the coop -1.5 for the ending +.5 for the combat system being so fluid. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stopheltje
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 28, 2008 8:32 am PT
Review:  Just played the game for its first few hours and I have to say it sucks me right in it. After these 
 first few reviews I hope I can ad up any experience I had so far (so it adds some extra) .
  
  In the game you start as a youngster (just like Fable) and you immediately get amazed by the 
 aw some scenery's and clear good sounds in the city. The setting is build like you feel that you're 
 living in the Industrial age (17th or 18th century) . Your first steps during the game are easily 
 learned. Here, your decisions are already crucial. Going the evil way or the faithful way, this 
 will determine the outcome of your play when your starting the game as a grown-up.
  During this first part you'll learn a bit about who you are, why you're special and who's gonna 
 be your best friend to the end (when you're a grown-up this will be your dog) .
  
  When you're an adult you'll first be overthrown by the possibilities of the game (e. g. you'll first 
 be able to use 3 different powers, you'll be able to buy houses (and rent them) , buy stores (get 
 profit/loss) , get jobs, gamble, get married, buy/sell weapons, buy/sell clothing, new looks, able 
 to learn your dog new tricks etc. etc. etc.) .
  
  As you can read the above the list doesn't end, and this is just a great feature in the game. This 
 way you always can develop yourself in new areas and become the person who you want (good or evil) . 
 This is a very important feature, cause if you don't feel like fighting for moment you'll be able 
 (and you want) to earn some extra money, go gamble, work, explore, buy, sell, refit, marry, etc. 
 etc.) The so called mini-games do intend to get bored sometimes (e. g. blacksmith is too easy) , 
 but there are loads of other stuff to do that'll keep your attention to the game.
  
  I do prefer to explore every little detail of the possibilities in the game (this way the game 
 takes so much longer to end) and I'm just very curious what the possibilities are during game play 
 (as every adventurer) .. and it seems this game is just perfect for that as the list is getting 
 longer and longer for all possibilities.
  
  For questions about the game you can always send me a mail and I'll try to answer it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zaqqaz713
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 28, 2008 3:50 am PT
Review:  Fable 2 takes the firsts Fable and made a bigger world a longer game and LESS stuff. Lionhead tok 
 out some of my favorite magic spells in the first Fable, now there is NO element of stealth whne 
 the last game a little bit of it. There are a little lag spots here n' there but every game has 
 that. But even with that they are not somethings that will get you aggrevated and stop playing 
 the game. Sometimes your dog gets stuck and you dont know where he is or someone goes through a 
 wall, or whatever. This type of stuff happens in almost every game and when you are playing it 
 you will get submerged into its unique charm that the first Fable brought and this one delivered 
 as well. Your actions REALLY do affect the whole world and can be absolutely critical. Some might 
 so "no" to that statement but there are so me things you just wont notice unfortunetly if you are 
 not to observant. Overall this game is well worth playing and is a must buy for RPG lvoers everywhere. 
 All my friends are into Halo 3 and COD4 and they love the game. I Believe it should be nominated 
 for GOTY but i am not sure yet if it deserves it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Garvaos
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 28, 2008 2:49 am PT
Review:  I have been a big fan of lion head studios ever since I played the first black and white on the 
 PC. Ok so I bought it for my mate then played it myself but still a very good game.
  
  when I first heard about fable 2 back in 2005 I was intrigued by lion heads signature use of good 
 and evil paired with a 3rd person real time RPG/action game. When I got round to playing it I could 
 not put the game down. It was immersive big and just plain fun.
  
  Now in 2008 Fable 2 has now arrived. And it does lion head and the growing fable series good justice. 
 What I like about fable 2 first hand is that it has not toyed with the core game play. You still 
 choose between good and evil, still start off as a child and grow up and still level up your 3 
 main abilities, skill, will and strength. And in my opinion I like that it was effective in the 
 last game and sure is in this one.
  
  But the new things they have added fit in perfectly with the gaming experience you get with this 
 game. The mini games you get with jobs and expressions are simple but make what you are going less 
 boring and kills time in between quests. But one of my favourite things about this game is the 
 dog. Now you can explore Albion with a companion. To be honest when I first heard about this I 
 wasn't too bothered but now I have actually played the game the dog is the best thing you can have. 
 He can hunt for treasure, rip bandit's throats out and even be taught tricks played fetch with 
 and just generally be praised. Sounds naff but believe me is great.
  
  The customisation in this game is a good step up from what it was in fable 1. The use of dyes to 
 change clothes and hair is a nice addition as well as the way your character changes even more 
 if you use more skill, will or strength techniques. So your hero will evolve into your own.
  
  The combat hasn't been touched much but the introduction of guns is a nice addition. I fin 
 my self shoot more than I did in fable 1. The bow and arrow was great and all but the guns seem 
 more rapid and run really.
  
  Now if you're a new comer to the fable series this game welcomes you with open arms. You do not 
 have to play the first one to enjoy the second. Ok so there may be a couple of references to the 
 first game but this is set well enough in the future that it's not a big problem.
  
  To sum up. This game has core game play down to a tee, the customisation is good and the dog is 
 geniuses
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: agirlyman
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 28, 2008 2:38 am PT
Review:  Fable II is one of those rare games that actually surpasses the ballyhoos, Lionhead has definitely 
 gone above, and beyond the call. The atmosphere the game sets is engaging, and really immerses 
 into Fable II. Fantastic gameplay, that is intuitive, and also about the most fun you'll ever have, 
 hacking, slashing, shooting, and casting your way to fame, and destiny. The Npcs in the game react 
 in many different, and amazing ways to every single thing you do. The online Co-op just adds to 
 the fun, there is nothing like your and your bud whupin on some badguys, just make sure you trust 
 him enough not to cause too much havok in your Fable II world! Many surprises await you on your 
 journey, and too many "Omg that was so cool!" moments to count! Peter Molyneux's rear end finally 
 cashed the check his mouth wrote, and that's a great thing. The voice acting, story, and score 
 are all top notch, perfectly executed for you to get lost into this great tale. Replayability is 
 very high as well, I like many will want to go through this game again, will I be "Evil" this time, 
 or perhaps a "Woman"? So many choices, so much fun to be had. Fable II is a must own game for people 
 who love to play great games, so if you don't have it, get it, asap! AM I NOT MERCIFUL!?!?!?!? 
 tEE hEE! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: heibakari
Rating: 5.5
Date: Oct 28, 2008 1:17 am PT
Review:  I attribute the wanton erroneously high scoring on this mediocre game to the severe lack of games 
 in the category on the 360. Come on Fable one in many rights is better than the second one. Someone 
 please tell me one "amazing" thing about this game which justifies a rating of 8,9 or even some 
 10s people have been giving it. Nothing is special. Not the story, the combat, the graphics, concept, 
 nothing! Graphics outdated, story is bland, main-character is like a cadaver, he has no voice/emotion! 
 Only reason I played through this game was I bought the hype and preordered it, my mistake. Fable 
 one had better weapons i'd say, character developement/story. The alignment in this game is skewed 
 too. I spent 30mins pillaging and become an ogre and never was able to ascend back to being "good." 
 
  
  I'm sorry I know we xbox fans are starved for good game attention on this genre, but don't call 
 a pumpkin a carriage! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -Acey-
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 27, 2008 10:21 pm PT
Review:  Fable two was rather disappointing for me. As I was waiting for Fable two to come out, I hooked 
 up my old Xbox and ripped out lost chapters. I was thinking Fable two must be amazing if it can 
 top Fable one. 
  
  Well, it was October 21st. I went and bought Fable two. When I first started off moving, it felt 
 awkward, as if my character was ice skating. Never the less I continued on earning the 5 pieces 
 of gold. As the game progressed on, it still felt a bit clunky. I find the battle system feels 
 too repetitive and too easy. 
  
  I enjoyed the story of the game, it had a similar plot to Fable one, which made the game great. 
 It was pretty neat how there was other heroes aside from you. It kind of made you feel like you 
 weren't the only one trying to kill Lucien. 
  
  The story started to fall after the Spire. After you kill the Commandant, the story started to 
 fall apart. Well never mind that, let's just skip to the ending
  
  The ending was pretty cool, but there was no final boss battle, like what the heck? Which RPG has 
 no final boss battle : (. It's cool how you get to do the farm stuff as a kid again, and how the 
 world changes as you leave the farm. Using the music box to stop him from putting you to sleep 
 was weird, but awesome. I like how you shoot him to kill him, but I was hoping for some epic battle, 
 or some cool CGI.
  
  In conclusion, Fable two has a good story, but the game itself feels like it was only 70% finished. 
 It's like they grabbed Fable one and ripped out the awesomeness, changed the plot and improved 
 on graphics. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: camirish
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 27, 2008 8:45 pm PT
Review:  My expectations were low since the last one was ok but no where near the hype. Fable 2 was hyped 
 also but met more of their promises this time and was a lot more fun. The new combat system made 
 fighting a lot easier to keep track of and more enjoyable. The world seems a lot more alive and 
 interactive this time around with activities like purchasing buildings and several different emotions. 
 But above all this is all around fun.
  
  I did have a few problems with the game. First of all, it was hard to see what parts are the world 
 was interactive (dive, vault, etc.) Also, even though the world was more open, it still seemed 
 more limited in where to walk around. Finally, there were some minor collision detection that affected 
 combat and interactions.
  
  But like I said before, this game is just plain fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: adamus007
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 27, 2008 7:50 pm PT
Review:  I have had allot off fun with this title...... it is a vast improvement on the original, There is 
 just something about Fable games that are just....... well special....... they have an amazing feeling 
 about them which really helps to engage the player and makes them want to venture back into the 
 beautiful world..... 
  
  The story keeps you driven and the visuals are stunning, It really does feel like a living breathing 
 world and the decisions you make really effect the going's on in day to day life...... it's the 
 little things that makes games stand out in your memories forever and I'm sure this will be one 
 that will stand out for me and many other gamers. 
  
  There is plenty to do in this light hearted RPG and if you take your time and really enjoy this 
 game and play it the way it was meant to be played you will be playing for well over 50 hours and 
 it will keep players coming back from time to time just to relive the charm one more time........ I'm 
 giving it a 9. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: super_tails
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 27, 2008 11:40 pm PT
Review:  I was one of those people who bought into the Fable factor on the the Xbox. I was one of those 
 people who saw it as a changing face in the gaming world. I was one of those people who after finishing 
 everything Fable had to offer felt extremely let down and underwhelmed. 
  
  Fable II is a welcome return to Albion. Set 500 years after the first game, things have certainly 
 changed. The Hero's Guild is no more after a violent citizen revolt. The landscape has changed 
 with towns growing in size, new ones popping up, and old ones being overrun by nature. In this 
 time where Hero's no longer have presence in modern day Albion, you begin your adventure by learning 
 you are directly related to a Hero of old, and thus, have inherited their powers, you just didn't 
 know it yet. You and and your sister are poor street kids living in the slums of Bowerstone, until 
 said event above deeply changes the course of your characters life forever. 
  
  Not to reveal too much about the story, I can say this is possibly the weakest point in Fable II. 
 The quests for the main quest feel like they have been stapled onto the game, since you'll continually 
 find so much more to do. 
  
  Which brings me to my next point. There is so much to do in Fable II. For instance, the Jobs mini-games. 
 If your gold bag is feeling a little light, you can take a job as a Blacksmith, a wood cutter, 
 a Bar tender, a assassin and even a sword for hire. Each of these jobs provide well if you invest 
 time and effort into them, allowing you to expand your gold wealth rather quickly. 
  So what will you do with so much gold? Well you can buy and rent out practically any home you encounter, 
 and furthermore you can even buy businesses. In Fable I you could only buy certain real estates, 
 making things rather tame. In Fable II you can buy all of Albion, thus making yourself King (or 
 Queen if your playing as a female character)
  
  There are an assortment of side quests as well, which also feel quite dull. There are some good/evil 
 sensitive quests. For example at one point you are given the choice to either destroy a farming 
 family for a group of bandits, or rather kill of said bandits for the family. The latter will result 
 in the farm growing from a small shack to a large property to which you can then buy and make large 
 sums of money off. 
  There are choices like these all throughout Fable II, where your choices at crucial points will 
 determine how things will change in Albion. 
  
  There is one flaw I can see that crossed over into Fable II from the first game, and that is the 
 good/evil aspect. As any fan of the first game will no doubt know, it is far easier to reach 100% 
 evil than it is 100% good. In a play through as a good character, it took me almost the entire 
 length of the game to reach 100% purity, compared to my character on my second run through almost 
 reaching 100% evil before I even did the second main quest ( and no, I didn't run around killing 
 everything and everyone) 
  
  As I said in my opening, Fable II is a great sequel in the sense that it built on the original. 
 Even though it still suffers from some of the same flaws as the first game, it does take a step 
 in the right direction. If there is in fact a Fable III, then an ultimate blend of the immersion 
 of Fable II with a story that is equally developed would be the magnus opus of Lionhead studios. 
 However, on its own merits, Fable II is a purely fantastic game that will certainly give you your 
 money's worth. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tyler50314
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 27, 2008 7:27 pm PT
Review:  Fable 2... It doesn't feel as long as it should being the RPG its supposed to be. The choices are 
 great, but there really isn't a dialogue system either. You still have the expression system. It 
 only took me 2 days to get 750 gamerscore in this game. The only glitch problem I saw was with 
 the read with A button. It doesn't work to well while your standing still, it makes you move around 
 a little bit while continously tapping A. After you beat it the first time, you aren't really missing 
 anything. In my opinion it needed to be longer and have more "meat". The combat system is very 
 fun and spellcasting is especially cool. The weapons are really cool and all, but none of the legendary 
 weapons you work your @SS off to get feel like they have very much power to them except the Daichi. 
 Otherwise, it is really alot of fun to invest your money in real-estate and watch it grow. Another 
 problem is that to get your Completionist achievement you have to do a bunch of stuff on Fable2. com 
 I seriously didn't want to deal with it. All in all, the gameplay delivers but the length of the 
 story just doesn't cut it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WarblazerTM
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 27, 2008 7:26 pm PT
Review:  You begin as an urchin on the street barely surviving with your sister.
  You both dream of living in the nearby castle, castle Fairfax.
  One day you and you sister notice 
 a big commotion so you go to investigate. It turns out to be a trader selling magical items from 
 the old ages of Albion.
  Your sister Quickly judges them to be fake despite feeling otherwise.
  An old blind lady tells 
 you that the box that the trader is selling is in fact magic and at 5 gold it will make your wish 
 come true.
  
  Anyway you get the gold go to the castle and the master for an as of yet unknown reason kills your 
 sister
  He attacks you as well but you survive and swear revenge.
  When you grow up which is shown in a cut scene straight after.
  You are informed that you are 
 a hero and that heroes once roamed Albion but were killed off in fear.
  
  Anyway apparently there are three heroes besides you that you have to recruit before you can fight 
 Lucien Fairfax the master of the castle.
  
  The story isntgreat but is entertaining enough to keep you going.
  Some parts do feel like they've 
 been ripped from the original and reshaped for this game.
  
  There are a lot of references to other games in this game.
  References include heavenly sword, 
 pirates of the carribean, Halo and evil dead.
  
  The graphics on first look don't seem to be flashy but as you explore more they seem to be brought 
 to life through lourful colours that are only rivalled in sonic the hedgehog games.
  
  The areas were bigger than fable one but less interesting.
  
  I do think however that 80% of 
 women look extremely ugly which meant that I had a hard time finding a wife for my character.
 
  
  The voice acting in this game is a little bit average and this game has lost a lot of its British 
 humour compared to the original fable.
  
  The music is almost as good as the original fable but doesn't have as many tracks as the original.
 
  
  Ok the combat is very much like a simplified assassins creed.
  X button is melee, hold it down to block or if you have the provided skills hold it down and choose 
 a direction to do a powerful flourish attack.
  There is a counter system in this game but by the time you get it it isn't very useful.
  
  
 Attacks no matter how much you mash/time the button will always look the same. Which I found to 
 be disappointing.
  
  Y button is used for ranged attacks, with the appropriate skills you can zoom in, lock on to specific 
 body parts and even shoot faster.
  This would probably be the coolest change to the combat as it is very fun to lock on to a bandit's 
 head and decapitate him with a pistol.
  
  B button is used for magic hold it down to increase the damage and range of your magic attack or 
 hold it down and push the left thumb stick towards your target to unleash a one enemy max damage 
 attack.
  
  Magic felt good to use but was disappointing when it came to spell selection.
  Not only are there fewer spells than the original fable game but also you can't have all your equipped 
 spells at max power due to the new magic system.
  For example you can have 3 slots filled up with the powerful blade spell and two with force push 
 or you can have all 5 slots filled with blade to unleash maximum damage.
  
  
  I was also disappointed by the armour system simply because armour does nothing in this game. Beside 
 make you more attractive or scarier.
  
  I found the dog to be useful for finding treasures but it was also a hindrance in combat and had 
 to be healed regularly .The dog changes depending on your alignment so for example if your evil 
 it will be black and have red eyes.
  
  
  The ai in this game is passable but sometimes can be iffy.
  I have had enemies running in circles 
 and even teamkillin their friends.
  
  Co op unfortunately was playable but was less enjoyable than simply playing by yourself the reason 
 for this is the annoying bad camera that limits how much you can move away from your friend, and 
 the frame rate drops and glitches that occur while playing coop.
  
  The controls work fairly well but I found using emotes with the dpad to be pointless.
  The one 
 button combat is easy to use but some may prefer the old control scheme.
  
  Overall I give this game a 9/10 due to the high replayability factor. I know I said I wouldn't 
 change the score but I was thinking to myself and I feel it deserves a nine.
  There are so many things to do in this game and while it has lost some of its humour it is still 
 an enjoyable experience.
  
  I recommend that you pick up fable 1 before fable 2 as it increases the enjoyablity factor due 
 to certain plot elements.
  Oh and any haters that still think that this game should get a higher score go and review it yourself!!!
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Netraam
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 27, 2008 6:24 pm PT
Review:  Fable II is easy to get wrapped up in. Characters are funny and you'll often find yourself laughing 
 at random and raunchy dialogue. The world of Albion isn't exactly immense, but is large enough 
 to get lost in for quite some time. And when you leave the game you will find yourself begging 
 to stare across awe-inspiring landscapes at the beautiful world Albion is. However, it's all of 
 these elements combined that leave the player somewhat disappointed (yet strangely accomplished) 
 when the game comes to its compelling climax and quick conclusion.
  
  First-off, Fable is gorgeous. Absolutely beautiful. In an almost non-realistic way. That's not 
 to say it doesn't look real; but, taking into account the scruffy and exaggerated character and 
 building models, it is truly an artistic (and in my opinion highly successful) approach at a lush, 
 and sometimes desolate world. The sun is the absolute high-point for the graphics, a truly mesmerizing, 
 technically proficient, and all around enthralling artistic feat, as it shines through the forest 
 or sets almost romantically in the distance. Overall the graphics throughout are wonderful and 
 give the player a positive sense of attachment. 
  
  The combat, and overall gameplay, is also quite fulfilling, and positively adds to the games overall 
 intensity and replay ability. Fighting helps you garner experience based on the mode in which you 
 defeat your foes (i. e. using magic gets you will, melee combat gets you strength, and ranged combat 
 gets you skill XP) . You also gain general experience for merely defeating your adversaries. Each 
 element of the combat system presents the game with some further depth; however, you will often 
 find yourself focusing on one of the three abilities rather than all three at once. It's exciting 
 to use just one element, even better to use two; but the combat is at it's best when all three 
 elements of combat are combined. It's just that it's more practical to use a gun and a sword, or 
 magic and a sword for example, than to use all three elements in perfect succession. In the end, 
 how exciting the combat becomes is based upon how exiting you want it to be. Take a head shot? 
 Go ahead. But why don't you electrocute the poor bandit, send him flying back in a flourish, and 
 then pop off his head as he falls into the lake below? Just a thought. 
  
  The score and sound is also outstanding. The music matches almost perfectly with the environments 
 and the music at loading screens, while not much more than a simple chorus, is catchy and inspiring. 
 Sound effects are not extremely detailed or in depth, but they're detailed enough to have you enthralled 
 in the action. The music matches up with the epicness that the game could potentially be (potential 
 described in the last few paragraphs) .
  
  The story is, in one word, decent. You'll be sent on a quest to find three heroes to aid you in 
 avenging an unfortunate loss, and yada, yada, yada. It's not bad. It's actually quite humorous 
 and captivating at points. It's just not the most original, or lengthy stories of all time. 
  
  The true fun comes in terms of adventuring and developing your character. You'll face dungeons 
 (of less than enormous sizes, yet still fun) , numerous beasties, an arena (one of the games most 
 fun parts) , and various quests and side jobs (mini-games based on pressing A at the right time) . 
 Adventuring is also easier in Fable than in other free-roam games due to the game's 'bread-crumb 
 trail' that shows you to your quests destination wherever you may go. You'll also be able to buy 
 shops and houses that will gain you revenue even when the game is turned off. Earning gold is way 
 too easy, but that lets you focus on other things in the game, like buying the windmill at the 
 edge of town, or the mansion near town square, or a few of the games godly, or ungodly (in appearance 
 and stats) weapons. Online play is somewhat limited and the person who isn't hosting the event 
 will just serve as a henchman to the player who is (choosing from a small selection of pre-set 
 character parts) , earning wealth and XP along the way as designated by the leader before the event 
 begins. From time to time you'll find orbs floating around that represent your friends, but it 
 is almost useless unless you have tons of friends or actual friends you trust to play with (albeit 
 that co-op is more about screwing around than actually getting stuff done) . Your dog is also worth 
 mentioning. He'll serve as your most loyal companion, finding treasures and dig spots wherever 
 you go. While he'll get annoying sometimes, he is a worthy companion that will protect you from 
 the get-go.
  
  The game glitches a lot too. It's sad to see your character get stuck in a falling position when 
 jumping off a small cliff or constantly strafe whenever he walks. Most glitches aren't permanent 
 and are only minor (like your gun not making a sound the first few times you shoot) , but certain 
 ones can prevent you from completing a quest or make you want to start over all together.
  
  Combining fulfilling combat with humor, gorgeous graphics, and a wonderful score, Fable II 
 is a spectacle to behold; it's just too damn short. It's all about adventure, and while adventuring 
 can keep you engaged for weeks, the story could have been longer to keep the game fresh for extended 
 periods of time. The game is at it's best when all it's elements combine; it's about decisions 
 and consequences, fighting and pacifism, good and bad. Overall, Fable II is a spectacular game 
 that capitalizes on being a gorgeous tale of adventure, but falling just short of it's truly immense 
 potential.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sosebee
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 17, 2008 7:10 pm PT
Review:  The story of Fable 2 is one with amazing high points and amazing twists, however all of its high 
 points don't defeat the extreme disappoint of the game's story. Alright before I tell you why the 
 story falls short I have to praise this game what everything it does right, and believe me it does 
 a lot right. For starters, the combat system in Fable 2 is outstanding. The one button combat style 
 gives the most casual gamer all they want and it still allows competitive gamers room to improve 
 and learn new combat scenarios. Another plus for the game is how the experience system is presented. 
 You don't have to return to the guild anymore to level up, you just pause the game and chose the 
 skill you want to upgrade. Magic is amazing also, you have 8 skills to chose from and once you 
 start using magic you will not want to stop. 
  
  The most impressive feature about Fable 2 is the love in the story. From the very begging of the 
 game you are presented with your dog and a strong bond is immediately created. Your dog never seems 
 to take away from the game he only enhances. He never bothers you and it is great to have a companion 
 with you the entire game. In the very few parts of the game where your dog is not allowed to follow 
 you, you actually start to miss him and wish he was there. Starting a family is also a huge part 
 of the game and one part I will recommend everyone who plays it to do. I initially was just going 
 to have a baby with my wife and then sacrifice them to the Temple of Shadows. However as the game 
 progressed I actually changed my mine because of how loving my family was to me, and how attached 
 I grew to them.
  
  The world of Albion is absolutely amazing. The world truly has been expanded 10 times that of the 
 original Albion and the new regions are all structured very well. The graphics of the game are 
 outstanding, every region has a distinct field and you will find yourself just looking around at 
 some points of the game. However at this point we do encounter our first problem with the game. 
 Lionhead promised us that there would be dynamic seasons in Fable 2 and through out the course 
 of the game, the seasons have changed from a spring to a dreary fall setting in certain regions. 
 I was expecting multiple cycles of the seasons because I have spent about 13 years in game and 
 this has not occurred.
  
  Now we get to the big problem of Fable 2 the story. Fable 2's story starts off very strong you 
 immediately develop a connection with your sister Rose and the tragic beginning truly gives you 
 a reason for revenge throughout the game. However as the game progress the story seems to become 
 more predictable and not as detailed. The big downfall occurs at Fable 2's end when you finally 
 confront Lord Lucien. Now everyone would expect for there to be a huge boss fight like with Jack 
 of Blades, however gamers are left with holding the A button for about a minute to sap Lucien power 
 away and the one shot killing him, and one of the worst parts here is if you don't kill him quickly 
 enough Reaver the Hero of Skill will kill him, so you can't even shoot the guy who killed your 
 family and dog. Now the 3 choices at the end of the game are ridiculous, you can either bring back 
 all the people who died making the spire, but your family and dog stay dead. Hello I didn't even 
 know any of those people why would I choose that decision. The middle decision will bring back 
 your dog and family and the third decision leaves your family/dog dead and you get 1 million gold, 
 sorry I don't need money over my dog. 
  
  After the main story is over you are sent back to Albion and finally you can buy Fairfax Castle 
 something I had been looking forward to the entire game. Let me tell you now this is not as exciting 
 as it would seem to be. Once you have moved into the castle you can explore its dungeons and at 
 the end you have given the choice of taking a potion that changes your sex or not. The worst part 
 of this is if you do take the potion your spouse automatically switches sex with no explanation 
 in the game. With a game based on decisions, the one decision that might affect your family falls 
 short because it just solves it quickly by switching their sex.
  
  This game deserves the score of an 8.5 given by Gamespot because the story truly does disappoint.
 
  
  Thanks for reading and I hope this review helps. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dragonps
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 27, 2008 5:25 pm PT
Review:  I'm sitting at my computer desk and I'm trying to find the best words to describe Fable 2, it's 
 not an easy task but I can try my best. The first thing you notice when you load up Fable 2 is 
 it's sheer beauty. Everything from the title screen to the luscious fields oozes the sheer determination 
 and obsession of the development team. One of my favourite moments of the game so far is not the 
 combat or the sheer immersion; it's watching the sunrise as its rays beam through branches realistically.
 
  
  Playing the game for the first time I had that overwhelming feeling of total immersion. Immersion 
 is a word used many times when describing RPG's, and it's one of the best words to describe Fable 
 2. As in the first Fable you start the game as a child. This I felt was the weakest part of the 
 game, as you don't have a lot to do before you're an adult. The game seems to do away with exploration 
 at this particular point.
  
  It's when you become an adult hero that the game really comes to life. Running through Bowerstone 
 and chatting people up, it's very easy to become distracted from the main quest. And it's here 
 that Fable 2 really shines. It manages to draw you into its world by its sheer scale and trial 
 and error system. Buying a property becomes renting it out, and then furnishing it out. One thing 
 seems to lead to another and before you know it it's three in the mourning!
  
  A lot of people have said many things regarding the combat in the game. At first I didn't like 
 it at all, I wanted the simple combat system of the first Fable. However after a few battles I 
 got into the flow of things and soon I was "switching dynamically" between melee, ranged, and magic 
 skills. Sometimes however the combat feels rather to simple. It would have been nice to have some 
 complex combo's for instance.
  
  Graphically the game looks gorgeous with swaying grass and the dawning sun just two of my many 
 highlights. The textures on the leaves for instance are quite remarkable. Of course people may 
 say that textures and graphics don't matter, but you have to hand it to the development team. They 
 have put everything into Fable to make it a digitised living-breathing world. Saying that there 
 are a few bugs in the game that will no doubt be fixed with patches.
  
  When you play the game as much as I have you realise that the development team have a far greater 
 vision in mind. You can tell what they really want to achieve from Fable. Maybe by the time we 
 have the next generation of gaming consoles their dream can become reality. Which brings me onto 
 the co-op gameplay.
  
  With co-op, you can invite a friend into your Fable world, however they wont appear as their hero. 
 Instead you're given the option to select a pre made hero. Gold and experience can be shared between 
 both players. It's a lot of fun, even more so online with a friend. Like I mentioned previously, 
 you can see that the development team have greater ambitions for the game, co-op being one of them.
 
  
  Finally I will say Fable 2 is the best game I have played in many years. It takes the ideals of 
 the first game and improves on them but not to a dramatic state. You will probably feel like Lionhead 
 have tried to play it safe with some of the features in the game. However overall this is an amazing 
 RPG that is not to be missed by anyone, even if you don't like RPG's. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fantasycloud
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 27, 2008 4:00 pm PT
Review:  The game itself is fun to play even if your not playing with a friend. The story is not shown very 
 clearly except for the fact that you need to kill a guy called lucien. It's great when playing 
 with the friend but you can't really call it co op because he's just helping and only getting exp 
 and gold. The person who joins your game should be able to play as his own custom character. The 
 biggest flaw on this game is the fact that its so easy. It wasn't even a small challenge when I 
 first got it. It is easy to complete and there are not many mini-quests you can do afterwards but 
 there are some. Moneymaking is easy but it's something that you work for in the game. Having your 
 own family is great but communicating with just emoticons? not that useful. The emoticons eventually 
 get boring and its boring to keep on using them when you want to get someone to like you. It is 
 also so much easier to become on the dark side then on the light side because the change is quicker 
 with darkside or it shows up quicker. This game is probably something you would complete and never 
 play again because there is not much more to do after you complete the whole thing. It would be 
 great if you could download quests on marketplace but that's just my opinion. Overall the game 
 is fun to play but nothing more after completion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Crocodile3
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 27, 2008 3:22 pm PT
Review:  I didn't play the first Fable. So I didn't really know what to expect with this one, so it was 
 with a little trepidation I put this disc in my X-box. I started playing at about 9pm and was enjoying 
 the experience but wasn't blown away. Then I checked the time and realised that I had been lost 
 in Albion for hours and it was now 3am. To some this may be the norm, but a game has to be great 
 to keep me hooked for this long. So begrudgingly I went to bed thinking about how to get my wife 
 to have sex with me. That is my wife in the game, but it is odd how art often imitates life.
  
  I woke up the next morning and made a cup of coffee. I looked at my controller, trying to resist 
 it, but I gave in and went back to the game and got a job as a blacksmith. I lost about 30 minutes 
 to a duff rhythm game to make enough money to buy some furniture for my new house. Deciding to 
 be more macho in my game choices I thought I would follow the main quest and kick some goblin butt. 
 But no, I was sidetracked modelling for a statue. When I eventually got to fighting I had a blast 
 using the 'swords, guns and magic' mechanics. (What a great name for a band) . It was hours into 
 the quest that I realised that there was actually a degree of complexity to the combat. Utilising 
 the flourishes and dodge tactics alongside structuring the magic spells gave me a great deal satisfaction 
 when killing the evil werewolves.
  
  In the Fable world you can buy or earn a hero title. My hero title is 'Dog lover'. While you can 
 get married and have children, the only character you really care about is your dog. When he gets 
 injured you will feel genuinely angry and want to avenge his sorry limping body by dealing out 
 some death to the next set of bandits that cross your path, but only after healing him and giving 
 him a treat to cheer him up. My favourite thing about the dog is you can teach him to urinate on 
 the characters you laugh at. Brilliant!!!! 
  
  So I guess my point is that while this game has some annoyances there is something compelling in 
 participating in the mundane activities of Bowerstone and OakVale. The official review is spot 
 on when it says the map is useless, it is. The story is indeed a little weak, but this game is 
 not Oblivion with a different set of clothes. It is a unique experience that will long live in 
 the memory. Perhaps this is one for those bored of playing the role of a huge footed space marine.
 
  
  Play it, enjoy it, don't take it too seriously 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rufus369
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 27, 2008 1:49 pm PT
Review:  **Disclaimer: THIS IS MY OPINION, IF YOU DON'T AGREE, THAT IS COOL, I RESPECT THAT. PLEASE DON'T 
 BERATE ME FOR HAVING AN OPINION** 
  This game might go down as the most disappointing game I have ever played. I know there are going 
 to be a few people who are angry for that statement in and of itself, however, as I explained in 
 my disclaimer, this is my opinion. 
  I had HUGE hopes for this game. I built it up in my mind, (somewhat due to Lionshead and Molyneux's 
 comments about the "EPICNESS" of the game) , but also due to the fact that I needed a good NEW game. 
 
  There are a lot of positive things in this game: the visuals (scenery) are stunning, voice acting 
 is above par, there are a lot of enemies to kill, etc.
  I am hung-up on many of the negatives though and these defects are ruining the game for me. (presented 
 in no particular order of annoyance)
  1) The villagers/townsfolk/"fans": I hate going to a town and having 47 people surrounding me all 
 the time. At least let me go to my house and close my door. 
  2) There are some serious glitches in this game. several involve the story "scenes" when you hold 
 the Left Trigger for an extended period of time. I have had to repeat major parts of the game when 
 I either held the trigger too long or somehow got hung up on a cut scene. One of the most frustrating 
 involved the Crucible.
  3) There are several loading issues with the dog disappearing when you move towards it, or trees 
 disappearing, or enemies walking through boulders to get to you. 
  4) The "true to life" aspect of eating/drinking and gaining weight. I went to the bar the first 
 night I started the game, I drank a couple of beers, and left looking like John Candy leaving the 
 buffet. I get the gaining weight thing, but the only way to loose the weight is by eating celery? 
 All the freaking swimming and running everywhere does nothing because you still look like a TUB 
 OF GOO. 
  5) The clothes are basic and bland. I was expecting armor, or some protective qualities from the 
 clothing at least. But there are very limited selection and it is all mostly bland. But hey, there 
 is always the dye right?
  6) The weapons. This can be the best aspect for a game like this, but in this game they are like 
 the clothes: bland and boring.
  7) The load times. I wonder how many 360's are going to end up in the refurbish program based on 
 how hard this game is on them. I know that mine chugs and churns every time it loads something. 
 And it does that with NO OTHER GAME.
  
  This game tries so hard to be a hit, but it seems to me like it could have done with some more 
 time in the incubator. Who were the testers? Why not get a beta going and get some input from the 
 average Joe out there: not from some Lionhead "yes" man who is afraid to speak up and say this 
 really didn't work for me.
  
  I have been disappointed before. It goes with the territory. I just expected so much more than 
 this game gives. I would say that it is worth playing but not for $60+. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KM330
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 27, 2008 1:38 pm PT
Review:  Fable II is one of the best RPG games i have ever played. I like how ever action has an equal and 
 opposite reaction in the game. For instance, if you kill innocent people then you start turning 
 evil and your character starts growing horns. Throughout the game you go on quests and talk to 
 different people to gain experience and hero points. Although it is fun, this can become repetitive 
 and i often find myself wanting more. It is very creative how you can communicate with the towns 
 people. You can marry women and even own property. The map is a little small, and you will often 
 be in the same areas. But overall Fable II is a fun game with many different options and ways to 
 explore the world. For anyone with time on their hands and anyone looking for an exciting RPG Fable 
 is perfect for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: reaper4334
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 27, 2008 1:30 pm PT
Review:  Well, I'd been looking forward to this game for a while. It was one of the reasons I decided to 
 get a 360, and I'm glad I did.
  
  I preordered and got the game the day it was released (24th here, damn Americans that got it first 
 :P) .
  
  There's a lot of controversy over this game. A lot of people say it's amazing and that it's definitely 
 close to a 10/10, others say it's terrible and lacking. The main reason for this is people misinterpriting 
 Peter Molyneux's description of the game for more than he really says.
  
  Well, regardless of their complaints I went out and bought it and played it pretty much all weekend 
 (had some extra free time this weekend :D) and I loved it.
  I did finish it pretty quick, but I skipped a hell of a lot.
  Without spoiling too much, I skipped 
 all the secret weapons and artifacts, the gargoyles (shooting 50 of them) , collecting the silver 
 keys for chests, and many other aspects of the game.
  I think this game could last about a week of constant playing before finishing if you were to do 
 EVERYTHING.
  I'm just about to start again and play as the evil moral side.
  
  The magic is much different to most games of this type, and I love it.
  The guns add a whole 
 new level to RPGs, especially when you can aim a certain bodypart... "Hmm, where should I shoot 
 this very annoying villager? Oh look! Not only is he dead, but he's not having and kids in the 
 afterlife." ;]
  
  Well, rather than continuing to rant.. I'll sum it up.
  If you like long RPG games and really like to get involved in the game (have a family, collect 
 keys, find chests, get rich rich rich, etc) you'll love this game. It mixes all those things with 
 a good storyline and pretty good action.
  If you don't like long games, you like to quickly go through and complete the game, you'll miss 
 out on most of the best things Fable II has to offer and you'll feel it's lacking.
  
  I love it, go buy it and kick some ass ;] 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Un4givingAsault
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 27, 2008 12:20 pm PT
Review:  [I TAKE PRIDE IN REMOVING BIASTS FROM REVIEWS, THIS IS A ANALYTICAL ANALYSIS OF THE GAME WHICH 
 TAKES INTO ACCOUNT HOW ONE CAN COMPARE THE PRO'S AND CON'S, AND HOW THEY WEIGHT IN THE OVERALL 
 RATING OF THE GAME]
  
  [SPOILER FREE, THE REVIEW IS FOR A PERSON WHO HAS NOT PICKED UP THE GAME YET]
  
  The good:
 
  
  You will not be at a loss for what to do. All though there is a variety of quests and world to 
 explore you will find yourself getting enjoyment outta doin relativly simple tasks suck as interacting 
 with NPC's.
  
  The combat sytems is relativly easy to use and the use of "will" (magic) looks brillaint and as 
 power as it should. The ranged targetting system is satisfying especally when targeting an enemies 
 head for a gruisome decapatation, or a shot to the testicles.
  
  Large variety of weapons that can be modified with augments which will increase power, and benifits 
 such as XP muliplier and recieving gold for each kill.
  
  Unlike like the pervouis game the player is able to choose between being female and male.
  
 
  Clothing is able to combined, modified, in a way which the player desires.
  
  Gripping story that does not attack the player from what is goin on. Cutscenes are only present 
 when an atmosphere or mood is being established and aside from that the player is able to interact 
 with what is goin on in the game.
  
  Unique universe, Albion doesnt not draw at all from the typical fantasy universe of today which 
 envolves elves, dwarves, goblins... Rather a unique believable world is developed where the player 
 feels comforable and not confused and overwhelmed.
  
  A variety of enemies which are all satisfying to slaughter.
  
  Lionhead developed an incredible 
 system in which a person can interact with the world and people that are around them, and thus 
 be reflected in the charecters appearance. Eg. the more evil a person acts the dark they look (Horns, 
 red eyes, tainted odd skin) and good... vice versa.
  
  The player is able to become a realestate mogul by buying and renting out buildings.
  
  The 
 world reflects your actions, the way the player choose to implement his influence will change the 
 shap of the world. For instance if a player increases rents high, the city in which will become 
 impoverished and people and buildings will respond accordingly. Also, the manner in which a person 
 completes quests will later reflect certian aspects of the world.
  
  The addition of a furry companion into the game, a dog, allows the player to become more intouch 
 with the world through the dog to discovering treasure and helping on quests to villagers admiring 
 the pup.
  
  Two large cities which a person can spend time to explore.
  
  variety of treasure placed throughout the world which give the player incentive to explore.
  
 
  The achievemnt are rewarding and engaging giving the player the desire to accomplish these tasks.
 
  
  I would list more but there are so many things that cannot be mentioned.
  
  The Bad:
  
  Minor glitches within the menu's, where they lag in transition, or backround in 
 menu's glitch out.
  
  The monetary system in the game is skewed. It is really easy to make money, epescailly if a person 
 pervouisly played the pub games. Certian things seem to cost not as much as they should, such as 
 houses and powerful potions. (MINOR CON)
  
  The player can not customize the facial appearnce of his charecter let alone skin color, which 
 seems odd for an RPG. (MINOR)
  
  Some side quests are bland and way to easy, and do not progress in difficulty as you beat more 
 of them. (ANNOYING)
  
  Its hard to level up from just doin quests unless the player devotes alot of time to repeating 
 the more tedouis ones such as bounty hunting... Potions are extremly easy way to level up, they 
 are often cheap and offer x4 as much XP as early quests. (MINOR)
  
  Still a path based world, the world is not nessarily open, each area has a load time before you 
 enter.
  
  The WTF? (first time I have ever done this segment in a personal review)
  
  It is quite disturbing, and not funny when playing as a male charecter being harrassed by males 
 who are enfatuated with your charecter and wish to have intercoarse with you.
  
  Pretty much all charecter, of both genders can be potential mates, just is kinda creepy in certian 
 instances and just WTF over, its wierd.
  
  The game seems a bit preachy about things, for instance the obvouis refrence to G. A. Y rights or 
 whatever. And there is reference to how religion is currupting, superstious and causes evil. Just 
 like to say LIONHEAD, PUll IT, its a video game not a soup box.
  
  Conclusion:
  
  This list may seem a bit thrown together, which it is, I'm just tryin to get a point across. This 
 game is honesly amazing, and a must play, it is basically a crime if a person never plays it. Fable 
 2 is a unique experience that a person will be able to find in any other game. The wealth of things 
 to do, see, and experince in this game along with with the enjoyment brought by it are the reason 
 for the 9 out of 10 I give it. This isnt based off a perdetrmined scale, but the game brought to 
 me a player. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Petros957
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 27, 2008 11:43 am PT
Review:  This is an amazing game. The only thing I wish was different was the Co-op play - it doesn't let 
 you use your own character when you join someone else. Otherwise it's brilliant! A friend of mine 
 burned through the main story in about 20 hours. But he skipped 90% of the game. This type of game 
 is best when you don't rush through, IMHO. And yes I understand that some of the puzzles, and quest 
 objectives, can be unappealing to some. Still this is a "Peter Molyneux" RPG, so the social dynamics 
 are to be expected. Truth be told, you don't have to do all the quests if you chose not too.
  
  So since I can't simply play this game for hours on end, I'm certain that it will keep me amused 
 for a few months at least. But I can't relate to those who rate this game poorly! They must not 
 like RPGs....? Or they must think the game is "too easy" (which it is NOT!) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tyedebbie
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 27, 2008 11:34 am PT
Review:  First of all, i haven't finished it yet, so this review may change by then...
  
  Anyway, i didn't expect much from this, as i tend not to stick with games very long lately, especially 
 not games like this, Oblivion being a good example of this, as i only played the tutorial 2 christmases 
 ago and refuse to go back to it!
  
  But since i got in at 4 on Saturday afternoon this is the ONLY game ive played, becase it is amazing.
 
  
  I read the Gamespot review that said the graphics weren't too great, but i have to disagree, for 
 a game so big and full, the graphics haven't been comprised! The story seems good, slight cliche, 
 but everyone likes that, honestly, if it was way off people would not enjoy it!
  
  It is defiantly an addictive game, all the possibilities makes me just want to keep playing. I 
 didn't consider this at first, i kind of thought, play good or evil, why would i want to go back 
 and do it again, but I'm finding I'm changing all the time!
  
  I only hope the end is not disappointing! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Peter_Cheek
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 27, 2008 9:30 am PT
Review:  I'm have'n a lot of fun with this game. Lots to do in this game and all in all it plays well. It's 
 not everything I had hoped but by no means is it a bad game.
  
  I love that you can buy anything and everything (almost) , I love that you can go anywhere (almost) , 
 and I love the do what you want when you want game play. I say almost because you cant really go 
 anywhere like an Oblivion but the areas are quite large and nice to look at. I wanted to buy the 
 tower that the will user lived in but you can not (as far as I know) I'm sure there are other places 
 like that that you can not buy but there is still more things to buy than you would ever want.
 
  
  The fighting is fine. Not great by any means but its hack and slash sword play is very fun and (once 
 built up) ranged combat is cool. The magic... well maybe it's just me but it just feels week. I don't 
 like the way it's laid out. So because of that I do not use magic witch is a huge part of playing 
 this kind of game for me. Oh and why can't you get items from dead people?
  
  The world in Fable is great. The people are on many occasions hilarious. They could have used a few 
 more female models. It seems that they all look the same compared to the seemingly more varied males. I 
 married a hooker just because she looked different... oh and because I'm evil and I felt we would 
 be a good match.
  
  The many games are quite week and tend to get tedious over time but you can always walk away. The 
 pub games are not that great. I dig fortunes tower a lot.
  
  The main quest seems short however I have not completed it because there are so many other things 
 to do. Once I start playing it's hard to pick a good place to stop and that s a good thing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AuntHolly
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 27, 2008 7:57 am PT
Review:  I took this game out of the box and played for 9 straight hours. This game is just plain fun to 
 play! Beware, it's totally immersive and addictive. My WOW characters have taken a back seat to 
 this game. Love the adult humor and the smartass remarks from the townsfolk. Many fine improvements 
 from the first "Fable". If I had to make one judgement it's that the game is just too easy. But 
 there's so much else to think about and plan for that maybe killing the bad guys isn't that difficult 
 'cause it's secondary to the rest of the story. Your character has to work for wages, decide if 
 and when to fall in love and plan a family, become a good guy or a bad guy. Lot's of things! Also, 
 I'm a female so I made my character a female. Then I drank too much beer and got fat. Life mimics 
 art! Good work Lion Head Studios and thank you for listening to your Fable fans. Bravo! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SPiccoli
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 27, 2008 7:34 am PT
Review:  It's not technically involved or especially deep in any aspect of RPG'ing. But it's all feels just 
 right.
  
  For example, Oblivion has infinite options with your stats... sometimes it's a bit consuming and 
 not really adding to the over-all gameplay. Excessive time is spent upping non-essential stats... 
 like "Running" or "Jumping". Don't get me wrong, I loved Oblivion, but it did get a bit tedious 
 at times.
  
  Fable 2 just seemed to strike the right balance between "FUN" and "RPG".
  
  My son and I have really enjoyed the Co-op as well. I've taken care of avoid the mature aspects 
 of Fable, which is actually pretty easy to do. Fortunately, the "Mature" aspects of Fable are a 
 choice and non-essential to gameplay. Sure, the camera is a pain at times. But before (Oblivion 
 again) , we had to take turns with one of us watching. We've really enjoyed sharing this adventure 
 together.
  
  The only aspect of fighting that's missing in Co-op vs Single Playing is using ranged weapons. 
 You can't use the zooming or "sub-targeting" properly. I understand why, but it's still a bit of 
 a let down. Maybe a split screen would have served better here than sharing the screen.
  
  All in all, I would recommended this game if you're a fan of the original Fable or Oblivion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pro_Zelda_playa
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 27, 2008 7:28 am PT
Review:  
  - Graphics (6/10) : I got a lot of glitches in this game and the graphics was just a disappointment 
 to me.
  
  - Game play (9.5/10) : The game play is quite amazing and the game looks very long. The idea of 
 changing the character as he grows up is great. 
  
  - Sound (10/10) : The sound is just amazing if your playing the game with a 5.1 surround sound 
 system.
  
  - Multiplayer (9/10) : The Multiplayer is great. What was impressive was finding your friends online 
 while playing the actual story. The problem is that I think you can't play with people you don't 
 know.
  
  - Customization (9.5/10) : All though you cannot create your character from the beginning... You 
 can change him/her as he/she grows up. You can choose what he/she wheres, his/ her weapons, and 
 if he/she is bad, good, or neutral. Face it, this is no spore.
  
  - A cool feature is that you can buy any house, if it is on sale, you see. You can also marry woman 
 and socialize to make friends. The focus in the game is that you are living a whole other life 
 inside a game. You decide everything that changes your character's personality.
  
  ... Thank you Lion Head Studios for the amazing game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AvatarofRage
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 27, 2008 6:21 am PT
Review:  I'll keep it brief.
  
  Storyline is good. I felt emotion towards the characters, and at no point felt the game was trying 
 to control that opinion. Great ending that leaves plenty of room for epileptic trees while still 
 granting closure to the main plot.
  
  Combat is good. Everything flows nicely, however I feel that additional spells would have improved 
 it for the sake of thematic i. e some ice and maybe ground spells to balance out the elemental wheel.
 
  
  Choices=Impact... present, but slightly lagging. More options that grant noticeable effects would 
 be good. The impact of who you give the warrants to is how it should be. For instance, in the early 
 mission, you can save the traders or give the key to a bandit. If you rescue them, then later in 
 the game they should help you, while if you leave them be, you should say, find their child who 
 swore vengeance and comes looking for you.
  
  Family. Quaint, and amusing. However, more family triggered quests (like where the child goes into 
 the cave) would improve the experience. Additionally, if the child, after some time, grew up into 
 a young adult, that would be great. Then, if you gave the child toy weapons when they where young, 
 the child could then become a trained adventurer, and could then join you as you quest and actively 
 take part in combat, that would be brilliant. Spouses who take part in combat would also be good.
 
  
  Customization. Of too a good start, but needs more outfits, more dyes, and above all more weapons. 
 As it each, each glass of weapon has 5 tiers, and a legendary. Meaning by the end, you'll have 
 either a master or legendary weapon, and the only difference between umpteen other PC's weapon-wise 
 is what augments you have on. Also, what happened to polearms?
  
  To summarize, I'll put it like this. Oblivion has this beat on customization, but F2 beats Oblivion 
 on everything else. Nonetheless, the Fable franchise still has room for improvement. I look forward 
 to F3 when it comes out.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: robmephisto
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 27, 2008 4:12 am PT
Review:  I've just lost a weekend playing this.
  
  The plan was simple: my girlfriend and I picked up Fable 2 at friday lunch time. We decided to 
 go out, have something to eat and watch a movie, then maybe play the game for a couple of hours 
 on saturday in between cleaning house, going shopping, and all those other domestic joys.
  
  We fired up the game late Friday night after we got home, just to see what it was like... and 
 now it's Monday. Wow. Where did the weekend go?
  
  Playing for 2 hours each and then swapping over... eating when we remembered... going to sleep where 
 we dropped... it was like being back at college. My hero's a goody-two shoes with a halo and blonde 
 dreadlocks, my girlfriend's is a girl with a serious skin condition (red glowing veins) and a husband 
 killing habit (yes, I am a little bit worried) .
  
  What? Oh, the graphics, and the gameplay? That's not important. The game is technically adequate, 
 with a couple of bugs here and there, decent enough framerate but with a few lag issues... but so 
 what? None of that really matters. The important thing, is that this is an RPG that actually FEELS 
 like an RPG. You ARE your character, you do things the way you want. Sure, you'll still have to 
 follow the main quest eventualy, but there's just so much to do outside of the main quest, you'll 
 forget about it completely at times. I must've spent at least an hour just trying to perfect my 
 "swashbuckler" look, and was happy to note that the ladies in-game approved (as did some of the 
 men) !
  
  Fable 2 is more than the sum of its parts. It has the amazing power to make you overlook any glitch, 
 any cliche, any imbalance, and just have fun. Remember when you were a young child, not quite so 
 cynical, and you could enjoy things without complaint? This game takes you back to that. So sit 
 back, relax, and make sure that your schedule is empty. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: legacywolf
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 27, 2008 12:32 am PT
Review:  Fable 2 is perhaps one of the most anticipated games of 2008. With its breathtaking world and amazing 
 interaction, it is certainly one of the best console RPGs up to this date. I like the way that 
 the game's storyline actually links you up to a path of revenge however, you can always do it in 
 a good way. Fable 2 has something more than what fable has to offer besides the good or evil bar, 
 there is also a pure or corrupt bar which is actually more realistic. The combat is really fun, 
 using your willpower is really easy and so is using your gun, and sword with so many different 
 combos available. Getting married in the game is really fun too as your child will really greet 
 you with such warmth. However, i disagree with Peter saying that Fable 2 is ten times bigger than 
 fable. I think it is only about 5 times bigger. Fable would have really been better off if it had 
 more towns/settlements/villagers, and i would have preferred a larger variety of equipment. Besides 
 all this negative points Fable 2 is a most get so go and get it. I rate this game a 9.0 Fantastic! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BigC43
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 26, 2008 11:10 pm PT
Review:  The Good: Fantastic graphics, great sound effects and voice acting, choices effect the outcome 
 of the game a bit more than they did before, tons of things to do and places to explore besides 
 the main storyline, solid storyline that brings you into the mindset of the type of character you 
 are trying to become, hilarious moments, much more stuff in general to do than the previous game, 
 online co-op and item sharing, one button combat and new controls are quite good, excellent use 
 of achivements.
  
  The Bad: Camera issues in co-op, less types of enemies than the first game, main storyline is fairly 
 short, you can't be your own character when in a friend's game, long load times, no major boss 
 fights, no fishing.
  --------------------------------------------------------
  2004 was a year to remember for owners of the Xbox. Two of Microsoft's original system's best games 
 were both released that year less than two months appart from each other. One was Halo 2 in November, 
 the other was Fable, a long delayed role playing game from legendary game designer Peter Moleneux. 
 The game was billed as the first game where a player's actions dramatically effected the gameplay, 
 which is did for the most part. It was a game that garnered a lot of praise and a solid fanbase. 
 Now, 4 years after the original release of Fable for the Xbox, owners of the latest Microsoft system 
 are treated with Fable 2, a sequel which takes place 500 years after the original game. 
  
  One thing that fans of the original game will notice as soon as they set foot in the Albion of 
 Fable 2 is how different the world has become. Now, guns are commonly used and familiar areas are 
 either gone or drastically changed. It is also a world cast into the shadow of a man who threatens 
 to destroy it in exchange for creating a new world that he will in turn rule. 
  
  You are one of the last remaining people in Albion to have the blood of a hero and you must save 
 the world just as your ansesters did before you.
  
  The world of Fable 2 has changed in many respects, but the core elements that made the original 
 so good have returned and in a much more polished fashion. The control scheme has drastically changed 
 to make things a bit simpler. Now, all of your combat is based on a single button. The X button 
 is used for melee combat, the Y button for guns and skill and the B button is used to quick cast 
 a spell, which is selected from the pause menu. This does make combat a bit simpler and new touches 
 such as brutal finishers make that combat even more satisfying. 
  
  There have been several major new additions that help make Fable 2 a much better game than the 
 original. The first is the addition of multiplayer. Fable goes co-op either offline or online. 
 If you are connected to Xbox Live, you will notice little green orbs floating around. These orbs 
 represent a friend of yours who is playing the game. You are able to interact with these orbs and 
 give gifts to your friends as well as check their stats. You also have the option to invite a friend 
 into your world to join you. There are several problems with the co-op mode which should be addressed. 
 The first is that the camera is very unstable during co-op. You must stay in a pretty close proximity 
 to your partner in order to avoid getting stuck. You can also be stuck if the main character who's 
 world you are in is doing anything from pausing to check the map to romancing with his wife or 
 her husband. You also are unable to be your own character when joining someone else's game. All 
 gold, items and experience you gain while in co-op will transfer over, but it still would have 
 been nice to be able to use your own character while in a friend's world.
  
  Speaking of romancing, you are now able to be a female hero at the start of the game in addition 
 to a male. You are also able to have children, who will demand attention from their parent every 
 now and again. 
  
  One aspect that is completely new is the ability to start a real estate empire. You are now able 
 to buy any shop and practically any house in Albion and gain money over time. You also get major 
 discounts at shops you own, which will become useful during your travels. Being greedy can also 
 give you corruption points, while not raising your prices or possably lowering them can give you 
 purity points, which is a new dynamic in addition to good and evil.
  
  Every hero needs a companion to aid them in their travels. In Fable 2, yours is a dog. You first 
 meet your dog as a child and as you change in the game, your dog changes with you. If you are evil, 
 your dog will become dark and mean but if you are good, your dog will be light and very gentle. 
 The dog is also your guide to burried treasure and hidden treasure chests.
  
  From a technical aspect, Fable 2 is quite impressive. The visuals are still cartoony like the original, 
 but are also extremely eye pleasing and very next gen. It has a beautiful look and the visuals 
 add a lot to the game's overall charm. Danny Elfman's wonderful soundtrack from the original has 
 been tweaked a bit for the sequel, but it still is wonderful and flowing. The voice acting is as 
 superb as it's always been and there are more celebrity voice actors in the game such as Stephen 
 Fry (V for Vendetta, The Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy) among others. The great sense of humor 
 from the first game returns with a vengence as well.
  
  Sometimes, when trying to make a game feel more next gen, some aspects need to be sacrificed. In 
 Fable 2's case, several elements of the previous game were mission or scaled down. There are now 
 only 9 demon doors total in Albion instead of the many in the original Fable. The amount of different 
 enemy types has been scaled back a lot. Some old classics such as hobbes and bandits return with 
 some new enemies such as Banshees, but some enemies such as wasps and pixies are now gone. The 
 load times are pretty lengthy, especially in co-op play. This is somewhat expected, but still an 
 annoyance. You are also unable to go fishing and have less expressions to use this time around.
 
  
  Dispite it's flaws, when it's all said and done, Fable 2 is a fantastic game that is worth owning, 
 especially if you enjoyed the original game. If you can, try to track down a copy of the Limited 
 Edition because you are able to bring an other world power into the world of Albion among other 
 goodies.
  
  Overall, if you are a fan of role playing games and want a game that has a great sense of style 
 and tons of things to do, Fable 2 will not disappoint.
  
  Gameplay: New controls and tons of new things to do, but it's still the same old Fable in terms 
 of style.
  
  Graphics: Fantastic visuals.
  
  Sound: Great music, voice acting and sound effects all around.
  
  Value: With promise of downloadable 
 content and so many things to do in Albion, Fable 2 is definately worth the $60 or $70 if you can 
 find the LE.
  
  Final Thoughts: You're health is low...
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sin-Thesis
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 26, 2008 10:00 pm PT
Review:  Take your time like I have been doing, take in all the different activities and sights there are 
 in Albion, don't rush through the story, and you will be able to truly appreciate how great this 
 game is. 
  
  It's not highly innnovative and certainly not revolutionary, it's just a good game, and highly 
 addictive if you can go in to it with a good attitude or even a doubtful attitude.
  
  The environments are beautiful, the townsfolk are fun to interact with, the dog is possibly the 
 one small innovation to RPGs that Fable 2 brings because it works so well, and having a crapload 
 of kids and wives and trying to own everything adds a whole lot of playability after you are done 
 with main story, not to mention side quests and jobs.
  
  Stop focusing on whether or not it broke the mold and remember why you first picked up a video 
 game controller: because it's FUN. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rockerz80
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 26, 2008 9:47 pm PT
Review:  This game is the whole reason i got a xbox 360. And i must say that this game was well worth the 
 wait. I mean come on this is with out a doubt the greatest RPG i have ever and will ever play. 
 if i were you i would go out and buy this game right now. It is loaded with hours of stuff to do 
 places to explore and much much more. But if you don't have a lot of money and have only enough 
 to rent it good news it can be beat within 2 days time. But it is one you can play over and over 
 again and not get bored easy. And The Co-Op in the game is okay the camera angles could be better 
 but i guess they are okay for the time being. It reminds you of the old resident evil games without 
 zombies.... well unless your in the grave with hallow men in witch case bring on the shotguns. Well 
 this is all i'm gonna say but i mean everyone has there own opinion so go out rent it or buy it 
 and see for yourself i guarantee you will be playing for hours well i'm gonna go play some more 
 hope to see you on xbox. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mysticchampion
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 26, 2008 9:36 pm PT
Review:  OK so you see a lot of reviews on here saying, "oh the main story i beat in six hours" OK so good 
 for you you played 1/4 of what the game actually is. There is so much more to this game like demon 
 doors, silver chests, gargoyles, legendary weapons, property ownership, morality, and so so much 
 more that you can't judge this game based on the MAIN quest. You have to include the side quests 
 and all the side items and unlockables that you can find, you also have to consider how every area 
 changes depending on your choices at certain points in the game and on seasons, yes every area 
 changes from summer to fall to winter to spring and back to summer again. 
  
  I mean there is limitless things to find 30+ clothing dies, clothes themselves, many legendary 
 awesome weapons along with gargoyles and silver keys/chests. Also getting all your skills maxed 
 buying property and becoming the tyrannical emperor or the fair president of albion. Socialising 
 with the local people and even getting married and having a child, you really feal like you are 
 the guy in the game. You can change anything about yourself, get scarres from battle, and become 
 great. 
  
  I would recommend this game for any rpg lover and even people that don't know what rpg is, just 
 remember don't rush the main story and enjoy everything else in the game along the way. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RED-PHEONIX
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 26, 2008 8:35 pm PT
Review:  Fable 2 is a fantastically addictive and fun game to play, however there are a few problems with 
 it, such as an incredibly short story line... it took me 12 hours to complete and that is with 
 quite a lot of fooling around, exploring, having a family and working (pouring beer/ chopping wood/ 
 making disposable swords) .
  
  Firstly a lot of the content brought over from Fable one has been cut down quite a bit for instance 
 combat, will combat in particular has been cut down, this is because of the 'one button' system 
 that has been implemented (one button for sword play, one for ranged and one for will) this means 
 that there are a lot less spells to chose, from around two or three dozen in the first game to 
 just 8 in this and it wouldnt be so bad if it wasnt for the fact the a lot of very good spells 
 were cut out, e. g. Beserker, Assassins Rush etc, the will system in the first game was brilliant 
 it was easy to cycle through all of your spells and because the symbols for each werent almost 
 identical you could quickly and clearly define and use each one in combat. Another problem in this 
 game is the fact that you dont have a will/magic bar meaning you can use spells every second of 
 every day free of charge greatly diminishing what challenge there was. One more problem with the 
 combat system compared with the first's is the multiplier system, in Fable 2 it comes down to how 
 stylishly you cut your foes down and for that you get things like "214% bonus experience" which 
 is fine and dandy but the system in Fable one was more challenging and potentially a lot more rewarding.
 
  
  One annoying feature in this that wasnt quite so in its precursor is the getting fat part, in this 
 if you were to eat 5 pies in your entire life you would become fat and stay fat until you die (you 
 can eat a lot of celery which atleast on your statistics make you slimmer but it doesnt appear 
 so in game) , this only really becomes a problem when you start to get low on life in dire situations 
 and quickly press   on the d-pad only to find you have put 3 stone on afterward. The problem is 
 that no amount of moving around, dancing or lipo suction will get rid of that unlike the first 
 game which had a more sophisticated system to deal with it which is ludicrous to actually think 
 about an xbox game with not much funding being a lot more sophisticated and polished than an xbox 
 360 game that had a lot more time spent on it and a lot more funding and resources poured into 
 it, the problem isnt so much the getting fat part though its the not being able to unfattify yourself 
 making your serious character look like Mr Blobbly on tranquilizers, because lets face it Mr Blobby 
 is crazy. 
  
  One of my favourite features from the first game, the Demon Doors, is back only this time there 
 are less of them just 8 compared to the 20 in the first game and often with a worse reward for 
 breaking their seal than the first game. I would have hoped for atleast the same amount of Demon 
 Doors in a world 10 times larger, and evidently prettier, if not more. This disappointment is however 
 displaced somewhat by a new feature to go with the Demon Doors and Silver Keys, that being The 
 Gargoyles, annoying yes with their scottish sounding insults but entirely satisfying when you shoot 
 them and even more so when you go to their cave to find plentiful treasures.
  
  Ok now onto an entirely new feature, the Multiplayer, to sum up... almost pointless, that isnt 
 to say that it isnt fun sometimes and a nice new addition but if it had been made more worthwhile 
 than to see the same things only this time from a crap viewing angle, this and the inability to 
 take your own character and equipment into another players world cheapen the experience somewhat 
 but all the same its a feature that is welcome for them moments where it would be fun to have a 
 friend playing a long side you or to show you where that last treasure chest on the treasure island 
 quest is as you follow a green orb. If anything atleast it is good for trading and infact in order 
 to get all hero dolls you need to trade with your friends.
  The breadcrumb trail was a feature i was dubious about when watching and reading about it, a feature 
 i believed would be too intrusive on the game annoying you to complete the game without exploring 
 but i was quite surprised to find that it is probably the best addition to the game.
  
  From this (seemingly incomplete) review you may be thinking twice about buying it if you havent 
 yet, but keep in mind i gave it a score of 9/10 and opened this up with the line "Fable 2 is a 
 fantastically addictive and fun game to play" i have focused quite a lot on the negatives but that 
 is because i am tired, it being the early hours of the morning, and it is easier to talk about 
 all them things that werent quite right. But dont let that sway you, for every bad part of the 
 game there are 10 really good, fun, addictive and humorous parts to it. Yes sure its a short game 
 but the 10 hours or so that you will spend playing the storyline is actually just the start of 
 it because it is still a lot of fun playing with the same character after you complete it, buying 
 all the property, finishing the quest list and building up your character so that when the inevitable 
 expansion pack comes out you will be ready and raring to go. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Philliephan923
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 26, 2008 7:22 pm PT
Review:  The great thing about this game is that there are so many options for the gamer. You can actually 
 choose whether to do something good or evil. The way you can earn money is also interesting. Earning 
 money from quests, jobs, and even real estate. The leveling up system is pretty good too. The co-op 
 is a nice touch but there are somethings that aren't so great with it. The fact that you can't 
 use your character on co-op (unless you're hosting) , and the camera angles are very annoying and 
 difficult to control. I really think they should have used Crackdown's co-op system where you have 
 your own camera and can do whatever you want. The game has a lot of long loading screens too, but 
 aside from these little bugs the game is great. The detail of the game is good, the music is good 
 and it's one of the best RPG's since Oblivion. This game should really be given a better score. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chaosisover
Rating: 5
Date: Feb 20, 2009 7:51 am PT
Review:  If you don't already know, Fable 2 is a game all about making choices whether you want to be good 
 or evil, saving Albion, and was pretty hyped up.
  
  Fable 2 is an extremely buggy and repetitive. The fact that this game is incredibly easy doesn't 
 help either. The only good part about it being easy is a quick 1000 GS or close too. There is no 
 point in buying potions to recover health, because when you "die" you get knocked out and go into 
 a "dramatic" scene for about 5 seconds, then get back up losing any XP you didn't grab from enemies 
 before getting knocked out. Another thing making this easy is some of the glitches to get infinite 
 XP/Money.
  
  Ok, Fable 2 isn't as bad as it sounds, well actually it is. This game is fun for about 2-4 hours, 
 then I only continued playing only for achievements. This game is disappointing and a rental at 
 most. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wertise
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 26, 2008 6:26 pm PT
Review:  We all know Fable 1 was good. It was great. Awesome even.
  Even if Peter Monyleux was giving us a load of bull it still turned out to be a damn good game. 
 
  
  Now Fable 2. What can I say? It lives up to the expectations. It was everything you could ask for. 
 But you can't ever receive a basket of goodies without some alien baby waiting to eat you at the 
 bottom.
  
  The combat was probably the best you could get. It was simple but very innovative. It wasn't hard. 
 But it wasn't easy. I admit I died a few times. It was probably because I suck but whatever. 
 
  
  The graphics were... meh. Well I'm not saying they sucked. It's just it wasn't that great. I liked 
 it but it could have been better. 
  
  The world was incredible. It wasn't like the Oblivion world and the loading times were freaking 
 irritating. But it was ten times better than Fable 1 and all you could ask for. 
  
  The story. Well it was very cliche. Some dude saves the world. Wow I have never seen that. Anyways 
 it was really short. Took me at least 8 hours. It had some fun moments but still. Not that impressive. 
 
  
  All the other features were really good. The jobs were addicting. The new expressions were... well 
 they were ok. I mean the same reactions every time. It would be really repetitive. You're basically 
 just trying to get everyone to like you (or hate you) by doing a bunch of expressions every time. 
 
  
  The weapons and equipment were again just OK. The introduction to guns really surprised me but 
 I liked it. That is just my opinion. I know many of you didn't like it. The armor not affecting 
 your defense is just stupid to tell me. You could go around wearing nothing and have the same defense 
 as if you were in a tank. Lack of different guns and weapons really sucked. I mean katanas and 
 long swords and hammers. We've all seen them before. Maybe something different for a change? Like 
 uh.... a whip. That would be so freaking cool. Dress up like Indiana Jones and just go around whipping 
 people to death. The rifles and pistols satisfied me. 
  
  Overall even if it does have some annoying flaws. It still comes out as a beautiful, satisfying 
 and addictive rpg. It would leave you playing until you found every legendary weapon, all the silver 
 keys, all the hero dolls and bought every single structure in fable 2. 
  
  My advice? Buy it. It's good. Better than good. Good like your mama. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: LastRenshai
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 26, 2008 3:42 pm PT
Review:  I've been waiting for this game or quite some time and i'm glad that i bought it even with it's 
 faults.
  
  The Good: Fun Combat, Interesting quests, Making money off real-estate, ability to give gifts to 
 XBL friends, Multiplayer if you don't mind the camera, THE DOG, expressions, going through some 
 actions that can change the future, World is WAY bigger than the original, Graphics are pretty 
 nice, the music is fitting 
  
  
  The Bad: Laggy sometimes, Enemies to easy to kill, The multiplayer camera, Really easy to get a 
 lot of money, not many different clothing options to choose from and what happened to armor?? dog 
 get's caught in things sometimes, Lack of an end boss battle, i gotta' say that main story for 
 this game is SHORT, Long loading times, The furniture store not restocking it's shelves in Bowerstone, 
 Demondoors aren't as rewarding as the originals was 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bf210
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 26, 2008 3:09 pm PT
Review:  Fable II is a great game but definitely not the best RPG I've played. 
  
  The storyline is short and hard to follow. While most of time is spent killing bandits, or avenging 
 deaths of people you only really knew for an hour or less.
  
  Side quests are not what they could be although raising a family and working in various jobs in 
 various places can be somewhat interesting.
  
  The addition of firearms is good for long ranged attacks. Which is better than having to be right 
 beside your enemies to kill them.
  
  The expressions are well done and can prove very effective to get someone to like you or dislike 
 you.
  
  Your personal life isn't as good as it should be. Such as people you don't even know coming into 
 your house and talking to you, your wife, and even your kid.
  
  Voice acting is very well done. With a lot of the players having different voices.
  
  The villagers 
 in Albion are done better than any other game. Every character has their own distinct personality 
 and also it is detailed enough to tell you what expressions and destinations they like even tell 
 you if the character is straight or not.
  
  This game is one of the best RPG's ever. Keywords ONE OF. I think Fable II is the second best RPG 
 so far. The Elder Scrolls IV : Oblivion being the first, and also I think Fallout 3 will turn out 
 to be better but still Fable II is a truly great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NiteX
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 26, 2008 2:25 pm PT
Review:  I will start off with my disappointments of the game. Same big disappointment I had with the first 
 Fable was that there is a lack of variety in the weapons. No two handed swords, no polearms, no 
 shields, and no dual wielding. Fable 2 did have a nice variety of guns though. A new disappointment 
 was the lack of clothing. I didn't mind not having armor stats or even plate mail, but there should 
 have been much more types of things to wear. I would have loved a cloak or a better trench coat 
 than the highwayman coat. The next big disappointment was the expression wheel. It did not evolve 
 in the slightest bit from the first game. Interaction is basically the exact same as it was in 
 the first game, even adding a voice to your hero would have made a bigger difference. The last 
 thing I have to grip about is the many bug encounters. Why did Lionhead not polish this game up 
 more? I've experienced getting completely stuck and having to load, from enemies getting stuck 
 and not being able to kill them. The most annoying bug is the shopkeeper bugs, where they will 
 not turn green to sell you anything. And another was the time my whole family just disappeared. 
 I cannot talk about co-op since I never played it.
  
  Now that I got all the negatives off my chest I can talk about the positives. The world is pretty 
 big, much larger than Fable 1's. Everything feels very immersive and alive. There's always jobs 
 to do and while some are a little repetitive and shallow they are addicting. This game has some 
 of the best side quests I have ever played. Some even change the world later on. The main story 
 quest is a little weak and cliche but the characters are very intriguing and keep it interesting. 
 Like I said before the world is just so amazing to explore and fight in, finding treasure is simple 
 with your dog, and combat is very fun. The only thing that upset me with the world was the lack 
 of environments, I really like snow levels. I wish there would have been underwater exploring, 
 and I wanted there to be a few more towns to buy and sell in. 
  
  Overall I loved the game and hope Lionhead releases tons of DLC. I feel like this world has so 
 much more to offer than what the short and simple main quest had. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: juan756
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 26, 2008 2:10 pm PT
Review:  Games have evolve quite a bit from the last fable. Games like elder scrolls expanded how much actual 
 world you saw in games. GTA IV also give you a whole city to explore, and mass effect gave us basically 
 an interactive novel-opera galaxy to explore. 
  
  This makes fable II seem a little less substantial in terms of epic RPGS. But this game more than 
 makes up in character and overall "feeling".
  
  Fable sticks to the previous fable mold, and improves on it. While the improvements dont seem major, 
 it is the small things that make you want to play this for extended periods of time.
  Having the AI dog,, being able to buy houses, do whores, get married, haggle stuff, work for a low 
 paying job, explore the countryside or cities,, fight and the endless moral choices make sure this 
 game keeps you entertained and busy for quite a bunch of hours. 
  
  
  Love the scenery and ambiance of the game.
  
  While not mass effect or any of the other major 
 RPG franchises, fable II is a lot of fun and shouldnt be missed by any fan of the aforementioned. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aeon_sammy
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 26, 2008 1:35 pm PT
Review:  a great game but definately lacking the umpff the first fable 1 had. where to start? game has amazing 
 graphics, 10times as good as two worlds an oblivion. cool little features everywhere and anywhere 
 hundreds of possible things to do, detailed towns an story line (mostly) , good combat system (blocking 
 is crap an annoyingly in the same button as attack?! block an attack same button... stupid freakin 
 idea makes blocking iratible) combat is fun an its like if you aim somewhere you actually hit stuff, 
 unlike other games like two worlds an oblivion where u wing madly an hit bothing, leveling is good 
 fun, but i was hoping for a slighty lower ranged exp with more levels... as you can only level 
 up spells an str 5 or 6 times until its maxed out which doesnt last a massive amount of time to 
 complete. i disliked how the exp dissapears unless you pick it up within the time it takes to dissapear 
 as you maybe fighting 10ppl at once you dont have time to stop an suck it up without getting owned (easy 
 to die if u get all exp but its like u gota get it or you level slower)
  arena was a great addition to the game until the last boss at round 7 which is utterly stupid an 
 really took the fun out of the whole arena, just kills it at the end for ya. townsfolk are a laugh 
 at first but there stupid voices get rather irratating lol guards are absolute crap an you can 
 kill them with little to no exp. which kinda makes the whole killing innocent people boring as everyone 
 is simple pimple an your often left without a challenge. as for the whole openworld thing, its 
 a complete lie, yea the path is about 5times as big with hidden stuff everywhere but you still 
 follow the same ole trail like in fable 1 (this was dissapointing, i wouldve really like to have 
 been in a fully open world like oblivion) there are no mounts or anything (i guess u dont need 
 anything as you run fast as hell) gameplay can get a little laggy at times but its generally pretty 
 good
  2player was pretty annoying mainl because friends are often useless an have no idea what todo lol 
 an the camera is just plain crappy in 2player, BUT IT STILL ALOTA FUN IN 2P
  
  overall, get this game its worth your money, youll love parts an probably be left wondering about 
 others, yes it is short (but if u ask me you shouldnt rush a game like this as the little things 
 you can do on the side will take up 10times the amount of time itll take you to rush through the 
 quests)
  
  like gamespot 8.5 out of 10
  
  BUT its a better game than oblivion by far they could learn something about combat from fable and 
 how to make it not crap :) - i hate oblivion for the record, its crap and youd have 2 be mad to 
 settle for an rpg like that when there is 100's of better ones on the internet 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Twilight_King85
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 26, 2008 1:08 pm PT
Review:  Fable 2 is a great game. even if u didnt play the first one u will still have a idea of the storyline. 
 It can get confusing at time to time but is still great. The graphics and music are outstanding. 
 Your dog is the best character in the game u will get a emotional link between u and ur dog. he 
 helps u find treasure, diging spots and helps u kill enemys. u can get several jobs attend fun 
 mini games and have an orgy (sex with alot of people) lol. you can get married and have kids like 
 the first. But this time they will grow up. i give this a 9.5 because its not perfect. Because 
 like gamespot said its to easy 2 get money and the game at some times fells really realistic like 
 u caint get a brake espeacily with the family part. Overall this is a great game and should keep 
 u satisfied for like 5 months 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dahui58
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 26, 2008 12:56 pm PT
Review:  I finally got this game, after a disapointing trip on the bus, to be turned down for not bringing 
 an ID, and an agonising 8 hour wait for my mum to get it on her way home from work, but that was 
 two days ago, now I own every building in Bowerstone and several other villages and towns. I've 
 also beaten the main quest, got 650 G and have hoarded the majority of the games collectibles. 
 Yes, the game is very short, but its definately an enjoyable experience for gamers of all varities. 
 
  
  So first, let's go over what Peter Molyneux promised us for Fable 2. Dog? It's here and it's definately 
 a good addition to the game. Free roaming environments? Sort of, the areas are definately bigger, 
 and some off road exploration is available, but the areas are joined by gates which transport you 
 immediately to other areas, so don't be expecting an Oblivion size gameworld. Guns? Yes, and they 
 are awesome, crossbows are still available, but the guns are definately one of my favourite additions 
 to the series. Families? Yes, there is a limit to what you can do with the family, but they are 
 more in depth than Fable 1.
  
  The world of Albion has changed a lot since the first game, new technology has caused the growth 
 of new cities, and the destruction of others (Oakvale is found late in the game, but it is very 
 different) . It's inhabitants however, are still the same, and the quirky, opinionated people of 
 Albion are just as lovable and killable as ever. There is also a lot more to do now, such as dig 
 and search for treasures, do jobs (these include Woodcutting, Blacksmith, Bartender, Assassin and 
 more) , find collectables and more. 
  
  The graphics and sound of the game has also improved on the Next Gen console. The people look more 
 realistic, environments and buildings are stunning, and the weapons are more shiny and devastating 
 than ever. Your own character and dog now look more impressive, and the Alignment changes are more 
 obvious and cool looking than ever. As usual there is the Good-Evil bar, but there is also a Purity-Corruption 
 bar. You can be corrupt by overcharging rent and items and being lazy, whilst being pure is undercharging 
 and helping others. 
  
  The equipment on offer is good, but maybe a little less variety is available than Fable 1. Most 
 of the clothes are long coats and tri cornered hats, but others like chicken suits and bandit clothing 
 is widely available. You can also dye your clothing with dyes (these can be used as many times 
 as you want) , this makes customisation much better, and I often dye my outfits different colours 
 to match my current activity in the game.
  
  Enough about the fantastic extras of the game, what about the Main Quest? Well I'm afraid its very 
 short (I beat it within 24 hours, including the time it took me to get married three times, have 
 a few kids and play multiplayer!) . The story is good, but could be dragged out into more missions. 
 Thankfully though, a lot of side quests are unlocked after beating the game, and there is still 
 the possibilty of multiplayer.
  
  Oh yes, multiplayer, after playing it, I came to the conclusion that it's best when you and a friend 
 slaughter a whole town or go exploring, but going through a cave or interior is a nightmare. The 
 shared camera ensures you can't go more than 10 or so paces from each other, so you have to be 
 well organised to move swiftly, and going around corners is annoying, as the enemy will have a 
 few attacks on you before your friend gets around the corner so you can actually see what's going 
 on. Shooting under pressure with a friend is also stupid, as you have to drag the camera to where 
 you are looking when taking a shot, so it will be annoying to the friend if they are also trying 
 to fight. The lag is also incredibly annoying, as on numerous occasions, with many different friends, 
 after I had finished fighting and killed off the enemies, they would often carry on swinging at 
 apparent thin air and casting spells. I would ask them what they were doing, and they would say 
 they would be waiting for me who was also attacking randomly. 
  
  So, to summarise it, I think this game is a great game, and best to play on your own, or play an 
 occasional 5 minutes with a friend to show them an item or send them a gift. But I recommend you 
 do not try the arena or a quest with a friend! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MuscleCarMan
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 26, 2008 12:39 pm PT
Review:  Fable 2 is one of those games that comes along with a massive storm of hype and marketing that 
 never really delivers on its impossible promises. Having played the first Fable, i still had hopes 
 for the second even though the first had let me down. Unfortunately, the second burns me again. 
 Here's how the game breaks down.
  
  Pro:
  -Unique art style
  -Creating your own hero
  -Simplistic but engaging combat
  -Quality voice acting
  -Addicting game play
  
  
  Cons:
 
  -Weak story
  -Extremely short
  -Very little variety in enemies
  -Not a lot of clothing options for your hero
  -No real penalty for dying other than some experience 
 loss and a scar
  -Going through menus is a pain
  -Game lacks any serious depth
  -Disappointing final fight
  -Long load times everywhere
  -Marriage system has no incentive 
 other than gaining massive evil points and wasting your time and money
  
  Shades of Grey:
  -Being famous means having every single person follows you where ever you go, 
 meaning get ready for doors and paths being blocked
  
  After Lucien is dead and Albion is saved, there really isn't all that much incentive to go back 
 to your main hero and keep questing. There are some extra quests the game mentions that are only 
 available after you complete the main quest, but they're repeats of previous quests. Other "exciting" 
 inclusions is buying extremely expensive property for items with little pay off. With the economy 
 in such bad shape and a lot of people hurting for money, I'd show some caution before making this 
 purchase. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mikej107
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 26, 2008 11:19 am PT
Review:  Where to start? This game starts out kinda boring and glitchy. Then once you get past that it gets 
 somewhat good. Then as you play on it gets really great! Then well, it ends! This was the shortest 
 disappointment I have ever played. Just when i started to hooked the game was over. I finished the 
 main story in less than 6 hours. With the way Fable was portraying the game to be, I Thought it would 
 of blown Oblivion out of the water, but I guess I was wrong very wrong! Even to this day I still 
 have the expansions to play in Oblivion. So most of all its giving me spirt to finish Oblivion. Gameplay 
 was good. The fighting was great. In my opinon better than oblivion, only because of the slow motion 
 kills. Thats the only reason I am rating this game a 6.5. Open world was horrible. Story was worse 
 than open world. When fable 3 comes out, if it survives this I will not be buying it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jumpshot233
Rating: 6
Date: Oct 26, 2008 11:13 am PT
Review:  I loved the original fable. IT was one of the best rpg's I have ever owned. I have been psyched 
 about fable 2 coming out for two years now. The gameplay is great, when its working, and there 
 is always something to do. However, after starting over 3 times!!!!! with my character, I returned 
 it for a full refund. Each time I started over it would freezed when I got to WestCLiff. I would 
 not be able to move or pull out my sword. The only thing I could do was shoot my gun and interact 
 with my dog.
  
  THere is a ton of bugs in this game. After waiting so long for this to come out and to have this 
 happen is crap. Peter, I will never buy another game of yours. You rushed this game and the 1st 
 day patch is mostly the reasons why this game doesn't work. 
  
  I fear that in the future this might happen more with the internet and games. Game developers giving 
 us bugged out games at launch, then saying we will patch it later. This is disrespectful to people 
 who pay $60 for games and get crap for their hard earned money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamer9897
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 26, 2008 11:05 am PT
Review:  The critic's score are too low. This game will capture you from the start. Think about what you 
 can do. You can buy real estate properties each costing more than others but also bringing in different 
 amounts of revenue. Your rental properties earn you income even when you are not playing. Want 
 to decorate your rental properties, want to have more than one wife Why not! Unprotected sex can 
 get you the herpes or a ton of kids. This game is in your hands. Its a must buy ! great customization 
 of characters. great Voice acting. It is very easy but it makes it fun. If you think GTA 4 is a 
 ten this is also a ten. Myself and my girlfriend were not sure weather to buy this game because 
 it got 8.5 and we just purchased Dead space and fallout 3 comes out soon. But now that we bought 
 this game and played it, we are very happy. Its a unique adventure. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chylde42
Rating: 5.5
Date: Oct 26, 2008 9:58 am PT
Review:  Lionhead has made a very interesting game,
  while they have some fantastic elements, and some very good ideas, it seems they fall short on 
 the release date.
  
  The game has so many flaws and design problems and glitches and exploits, it's almost hard NOT 
 to bring these up when discussing Fable 2...
  
  I ask that if you cannot read all of these flaws, that you scroll to the bottom for the worst of 
 them.
  
  Look at the Melee combat, it lacks in the sheer number of moves, the "context sensitive" stuff 
 is far from what was talked about and worst of all, it's a major component to the game... and yet 
 the only context elements i've ever seen is kicking a guy off a cliff if they are too close. 
 
  
  Ranged combat is mediocre, especially with only a single gun setup... Zooming takes forever, reloading 
 is very tedious when getting over-run by monsters... You can't utilize Ranged combat in Co-Op since 
 targeting and zooming is disabled by the camera and worst of all, you can't have a dual gun setup... 
 so sorry no dual pistols.. or swords for that matter
  
  Magic combat is mediocre as well... Charging up spells takes quite alot of time and it doesn't always 
 do the job... In alot of instances, I've used level 5 Vortex, which is my favorite spell and I watch 
 as enemies don't get sucked into the whirlwind... Are you kidding me?? What the hell is the point 
 of the radius if you've put a maxed number on it?? I mean, if I charge up a spell that powerful, 
 nothing should survive, it's that simple...
  
  Also, level 1 spells are very fast, but not effective at higher levels and switching spells is 
 not easy during battles... Alot of times you have to charge up level 2 spells just for variance 
 during the fight, so you don't keep doing the same fireball animation 40 times during a battle...
 
  
  then there's the economy, easily exploitable... Buy low, sell high, with no corruption points or 
 Evil points to go with it... All you have to do is buy weapons from Old Bowerstone for 50% discount 
 and sell them in Bowerstone Market for a 25% markup and bam, you more than double your money within 
 2 minutes...
  
  Leveling system is easy when you have 12,500 and 62,500 EXP potions available at the shops to buy 
 for next to nothing... And not only is it easy, it's actually pretty shallow when Peter claimed 
 it would be ultra deep... Brutal Styles has 4 unlockables, that's NOT DEEP!! Same goes for Ranged... Spells 
 also don't change enough to make them much different... The charge animations for higher level spells 
 all look the same... Why couldn't Level 5 Lightning charge up differently than Level 5 Vortex??
 
  
  Then you have the quest system which lacks depth... Expression system is boring and not only is 
 it boring, it's not fun to do... I can praise my dog with ONE expression... Where is the multiple 
 expression system shown in the 07' GDC video?? Peter scolded his dog multiple times in a row and 
 the Hero said "No" in a deeper tone each time he used it...
  
  Then you have the interaction system... It's always nice to highlight NPCs and not have them respond 
 unless you're basically face to face... Which leads to another horrible mechanic of people following 
 you constantly... It's fantastic when you walk into a shop and have 10 NPCs blocking your path on 
 the way out, cheering to you and fawning over you, so you have to pull your weapon out and make 
 people scatter in fear so you can exit a building...
  
  Your spouse is almost a good mechanic, but falls short when baby makes three.
  Your kid does 
 nothing Peter says. He doesn't grow fat or thin depending on how you spoil him infact he doesn't 
 grow he just goes from a baby to a child and done thats it hes like that forever. How can one man 
 repeat exarctly what he did the first time? 
  
  Then you have the real estate side as well... Such a great economy system where you buy a shop by 
 pressing A, very deep... Buying homes is another fantastic endeavor with no depth to it... Seeing 
 as you can't "order furniture", it's almost impossible to furnish every home you buy because vendors 
 can't ever restock with more than 1 of the same item...
  
  Then you have the menu system which not only lags, but is way overused... It's always a joy to scroll 
 through 50+ documentations to get to your latest item, yeah, that's wonderful... Gee, I don't know, 
 maybe a bookshelf in a house where you could put documents in would allow me to get rid of this 
 junk in my inventory... A closet for clothing, a jewelry box for gems and necklaces and rings...
 
  
  Then you have the Alignments, which has absolutely no bearing on the game once you're famous... Being 
 famous basically overrides anything and everything, that's always wonderful...
  
  Then you have Co-Op, with probably the worst camera in history... I can see the camera being useful 
 offline since split screen would cramp up your vision, but online, it's absolutely uncalled for... The 
 artists and level designers at Lionhead, pride themselves on making lush and curvy worlds, "none 
 of that flat terrain stuff..." Yeah, that's great and all, but when you have a horrible camera, 
 going up mountains and curvy sideroads blindly is really tough...
  
  Not to mention one of the biggest problems people have had with the game is that the Co-Op is bland 
 and flat, as i mentioned, the controls are terrible, but the second player is just a premade 'shell', 
 a choice of 6 "not-so-different" characters, one to represent each gender and alignment combo, 
 all of the men are wearing the same outfit, likewise for the women, and the hair choices for a 
 good half of the 'henchmen' are ridiculous, i scream for a hat to put on some of them.
  many people were mislead to believe that you could play your hero in someone elses world, and go 
 have fun together.
  instead there's a counterproductive feel that, while the game, and player 1 is all about shaping 
 your world, 
  
  Should I keep going or is this enough?? Should I get into the weapons, the clothing, the haircuts, 
 the story, dog, the HUDs, the health and scarring system?? 
  
  You can't forget the lack of Free Roaming. You literally can't get off paths. hey thats a rock, 
 I want to jump up on it and look around. Oh wait I can't jump.
  
  Don't forget about the map sizes, or the loading times.
  when you zone, It says its going to 
 take me 20 hours to get from here to there. Ok let me actually walk the entire region. I don't 
 want the game to travel to town for me. It's kind of weird Oblivion came out 2 years ago and the 
 map was HUGE and you only had loading screens going into towns and buildings, and they weren't 
 half as long as fable 2's.
  
  But the biggest thing about the game is that it feels like a poorly executed MMORPG open beta for 
 the PC!
  there are a ton of bugs, once you have invested some good time into the game, there are bugs that, 
 from that point forth, make the game unplayable.
  Pitsfalls and traps that can destroy your hard work.
  invisible walls freezing you in the spot, 
 loading screens that crash the game, auto saves that corrupt the single save slot you can use for 
 your character (upto 6 or 7 characters can be saved on one account, but all only have one save slot 
 each) so all of your play time is left feeling bitter, and time has been wasted.
  one piece of advice, do not try to Co-Op with a player when they are a child, it will wipe your 
 saved game.
  people have many speculations as to the faults being caused, some say that there was no time for 
 beta testing due to the release date.. possible, but rather cavalier considering lionheads reputations.
 
  another possibility is it's the hardware of the xbox being overloaded by fable 2, and finally 
 that the first batch of game discs were faulty, and are sort of unintentionally like phonecards.. 
 and you can spend your minutes rather quickly in the world.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: cleanslate1982
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 7, 2008 10:35 pm PT
Review:  Now I've been waiting for this game for a real long time. I think they have been advertising it 
 since when the 360 first came out in November of 2005. It's October of 2008, almost three years, 
 and the anticipation was almost too much to bear. I loved the first game, which had minor technical 
 issues, and the only real common complaint was that it was too short. This sequel isn't too long 
 either, and might be just as long, if not slightly longer than the Lost Chapters. (That was the 
 expanded prequel to this game, if you didn't already know.) 
  
  The stories start out rather similar, that you are small (young) , have to earn some gold to purchase 
 something, and something trageic happens right afterward. A character from the first Fable is there 
 to guide you through the course of your journey, and you never really get their motives; even at 
 the end. Note that I said, "really" because you never find out "why" they helped you or what their 
 future plans are. One thing was clear, it was to serve their own ends; whatever they truly might 
 be is still a mystery. Unlike the prequel, there is no Guild of Heroes. So you must go in search 
 of these other Heroes, who aren't comletely aware of how special they are. Like the first Fable, 
 these "Heroes" can be good or evil. Each hero seems to fit one personality extremes (good/pure, 
 neutral, and evil/corrupt) , and exhibit one talent (Strength, skill, or illpower) above the others. 
 These Heroes also fall into your lap, so you really don't do any searching at all for them. You 
 just got to complete the quests that get them to join.
  
  The story is pretty linear, and generic. In scale, the depth of the story might fill a 5 page book. 
 Cut and talking scenes involving the main story may be only 45 minutes to an hour long total. That's 
 not includeing the time it takes to complete the quests to get those scenes. There are three different 
 endings,, and they are all based on a choice you make at the end of the game. You do run into some 
 moral questions during a quest, and some of those will have extreme consequences in the world. 
 However, these don't really affect the plot, and may only cause some areas landscape to change, 
 their inhabitants, or an increase or decrease in that area's economy. Most of the major quest that 
 exhibit this type of change, have a contradicting quest that come up with it. Some are subtle, 
 and happen in quest. Plus, the main bad guy is pretty pathetic. In the first Fable you get an epic 
 battle, two if you got the Lost Chapters. Lucien is no Jack of Blades, and isn't worthy to be his 
 stable boy. So fighting him (if you can call it that) is rather disappointing. That's putting it 
 kindly.
  
  In my heading I talked about bugs. Go into any forum, and there is a laundry list of bugs in this 
 game. Some fatal, some annoying, and some are excuseable. Most of the bugs work themselves out, 
 but a lot don't. There is a glitch at the end of the game, where if you don't have enough renown 
 when meeting up with the 3rd hero, that you can no longer draw or use your weapons. Because of 
 the way the game saves, this could wind up being a bug that causes you to start back at the beginning. 
 There are serious problems involving combat. Sometimes you'll hit a guy, and they will become as 
 still as a tree. When you hit them, you bounce off them like they were blocking. Yet they aren't 
 blocking; they are just motionless, standing straight, with their arms down and chest out. You 
 have to shoot them to break them out of this. Then you can get caught in a kicking/stomping animation, 
 which deals no damage. It's also really difficult to ram a sword into them or melee an enemy that 
 was knocked down or is playing dead. Yes, they play dead! You have to usually aim and shoot these 
 guys in the head. The spells are underpowered, in my opinion, and they take way too long to charge. 
 They are a whole lot less effective then they were in the prequel. Which is good for some that 
 like more of a challenge, but not at the expense of gameplay. It slows down the pace of battle, 
 and they leave you too vulnerable to getting whooped. The best spell is a level one slow time spell. 
 It can slow time pretty much instantaneously to give you enough time to even the odds, or you can 
 use it to assassin rush you targets to attack them from behind or get away from being surrounded. 
 Block is the same button as swinging your melee weapon, just that you hold it; which is pretty 
 much the same as charging up a stronger attack. That can slow up combat as well. Bottomline, the 
 combat system in the prequel was easier and this new one was supposed to be better and more fluent. 
 It's just the opposite, in my opinion and experience. I did like what they did with the targeting 
 mechanics however. You can now lock on to target and quickly line up head or limb shots at the 
 highest skill level. These are just a few of the bugs and problems with the game. Most of the problems 
 being the bugs. Really, check out the list of all known bugs (they are in the forum) , and you'll 
 ask yourself why they didn't put the release on hold for a few more months to fix them. 
  
  Some people want to know about the dog. People seem to be having mixed reactions to it. I find 
 it to be a pain myself, and it's only useful to tell you if you are about to be ambushed or to 
 find treasure you might be overlooking. Problem is, it seems to be barking all the time, and then 
 takes its time to point you to the treasure. Sometimes it leads you the wrong way and gets to far 
 away that it loses it's scent. Most of the treasure is pretty useless or worthless, so the barking 
 gets annoying when it tells you to dig here and you find a condom. It's supposed to be there to 
 give you an emotional attachment, to make it harder for you when making a choice at the end of 
 the game. Honestly, the only reason I would make the choice that is positive for the dog, is that 
 it is needed to find some items and a legendary weapon. 
  
  Towns people are more varied, and can do more things. They do have a problem of following you everywhere 
 you go, even when you don't want them too. Plus vendors disappear, and sometimes they don't even 
 show up to work. Some never seem to restock (That's right Bowerstone Furniture seller!) .
  
  The economy aspect of the game makes little to no sense. You drop rent, improve living conditions, 
 reduce your cut of profits from any businesses you might own, and the economy doesn't seem to change. 
 Some suggest you have to spend money, but I have, and it doesn't seem to work. However, one thing 
 is true, in better economic environments, prices all go up. If a town becomes "Third World" prices 
 are dirt cheap. So you can buy all your goods from them and sell them to the better economy and 
 make bank. Regardless of he town's economy, the stock is dependant on your stage in the game, not 
 the economy. Also, if a seller hates you, yeah their product sells for more, but they buy back 
 at the same price. There is no penalty for immediately trying to resell an item you just purchased 
 from the same vendor. It's good to have some vendors hate your guts, because you will turn a larger 
 profit from selling them goods. Plus they have random sales and stock shortages, which is great 
 for buying and selling. Learning to exploit the system is easy, but understanding how to manipulate 
 the economy in this game is a mystery still.
  
  The legendary weapons are pretty disappointing. You can assmble much better weapons from those 
 you purchase. Only two or three are worth having, and some have negative augments that make you 
 weary of using them.
  
  Fable is still enjoyable, and draws you in. If you are looking for reasons to hate this game, you 
 will and don't buy it. No one wants to hear you run to the forums and brag about how hated this 
 game and brought it back after 10 minutes for a refund. Everyone else with an open mind, should 
 be able to get through a single playthrough with either some joy or satisfaction. Being disappointed 
 with this game is one thing, calling it garbage is ridiculous. After some patches (if they make 
 them) , this game would be more than worthy of Gamespots 8.5. As of now, it is broken, and only 
 gets a 6.5. Which to me, means it's fun and enjoyable and better than the average game. 8.5 means 
 it's a blast and technically sound. This game could be a blast, but the technical flaws are that 
 severe that it did take away from some of the fun. If you liked the first, I'd rent this first. 
 If you loved the first and couldn't stop playing it. Then buy this game. 
  
  I'll probably keep playing it until Fallout 3 comes out. Like I said, it's fun and suck you in. 
 It's just the glitches and bugs. They are unacceptable. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: R41N_M4K3R
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 26, 2008 6:39 am PT
Review:  Fable 2 is one of the best RPG's on the Xbox 360. It can firmly stand tall with the likes of Oblivion, 
 Mass Effect, and Fallout 3. The story of the game is only around 10-12 hours which I feel is a 
 little short after all of the hype but the story is very deep and complex and well written. The 
 combat system is extremely simple yet deep. Each of the face buttons is used as a different weapon 
 such a the Y button is guns while the B button is magic. After you beat the game there are still 
 many quests that you can complete for some hefty loot but there aren't as many as Oblivion or Fallout 
 3. The game is not hard at all because you can not die in the game, you just fall over for several 
 seconds then you get back up with full health. I know Lionhead Studios wanted to focus on the fun 
 aspects but with this dieing system the game has almost no challenge at all. Tho online aspect 
 of the game is lots of fun playing with one of your friends but I was dissapointed that you can't 
 use your character in your friends world, you can only use a pre designed character but you do 
 keep all of the gold and XP you earned while playing. Several issues with the game are that the 
 collison detection is terrible. You can be 5 feet away from the wall but your character cant move 
 past the invisible wall. Also online can be extrememly buggy if you are playing with one of your 
 friends and the camera angles are absolutely horrible if you are playing with a friend. Overall 
 though these issues are minor to the overall experience of Fable 2. I would consider it a must 
 buy for adventure/action fans. 9.0/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: impl0sion
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 26, 2008 2:34 am PT
Review:  I'm writing this review after owning the game for 2 days and played through the game once. 
  
  I was really hyped up about this game and after the intro sequence where you are a child I 
 was very impressed, the combat system is very fluent and the experience system is very efficient, 
 i prefer it to oblivion's system as you aren't tied to practicig something for ages before getting 
 good. You can just sink a few thousand points into something and it'll be powerfull pretty quickly.
 
  
  I'm dissapointed with the co op system, fisrtly because you can't use your own charachter, you 
 can only bring your stats into the game to put on a generic charachter. Secondly, the camera is 
 terrible. It gets very confusing fightiing through a large number of enemies its very hard to tell 
 which one is you. And finally, i don't know what moleneux was messing with in the co op demo where 
 the guy shot his wife, Because to do that you would need to turn off safety to attack non enemies. 
 But, at the end of the day, there are no rpgs that do anything like this, my point being i'd much 
 rather have a flawed co op system than no co op system.
  
  I''m also dissapointed with the length of the game. OK I played it solid for a day and a half but 
 the end was a bit abrupt and after the end of the game there isn't much elft to do, all i'm doing 
 is abusing the money system and making a tank to help friends out with co op.
  
  But enough of the negatives, this game is enjoyable from the beggining, there are many sidequests 
 which is a brilliant update to the last game, the co op while flawed can be alot of fun, and i 
 have enjoyed this game beggining to end. It has alot of replay value because of the different morality 
 choices, in my first playthrough i was as evil as was possible, maximum corruption and i finished 
 the game being very very wealthy, if i had taken all of the good options and been very pure i would 
 be ALOT less rich by the end of the game.
  
  I agree with gamespot's rating here, it's a great game but it has some flaws which hold it back. 
 As for comparing it to oblivion, well in obliion you feel very disconnected fom your charachter. 
 Sure the graphics are better in oblivion and the map is bigger, but thats about it IMO. Fable has 
 a better combat system, a better (single player) camera, better human animations and fable isn't 
 afraid of taking the piss of itself, in a loading screen i saw something like this: "'Isn't it 
 wierd how people in albion have exactly the same voices?'-Overheard from a citizen of albion." 
 I did laugh out loud. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pelm
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 26, 2008 12:44 am PT
Review:  Fable was great but now its sequel is just as good if not better. Fable was supposed to live up 
 to its hype but failed to now its sequel which was also hyped ( but not as much) surprisingly has 
 lived up to its hype and has come out on top above fable. There are many reason as to why fable 
 2 has done so much more better than fable. it has better graphics, better music, it's interaction 
 with other people is improved with a better emotion interface, when you swing a melee weapon at 
 an enemy and it hits them you can then hold the weapon down as if your charging it with the x button 
 and let it go causing it to show off a very stylish swing attack. 
  
  That's just some of the reasons why fable 2 is so much more better than its predecesor. But it's 
 not just so much better because it has new features it's so much more better because it has those 
 new features which expand the entire franchise into an entirely new direction as well as keeping 
 the old features which still give off that familiar vibe from before. With both the new features 
 and old features together alike they build more on top of the franchise and in this game carving 
 it out and molding it into something more then just a run of the mill traditional rpg.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Koathanger
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 26, 2008 12:23 am PT
Review:  Fable 2 has many new features, some good some bad. Lets start with the magic feature. In this game 
 there is no mana bar so you can spam your spells all you want, the problem is theres only eight 
 different spells to choose from and switching between them is fairly difficult mid-battle without 
 going into the pause menu. A great feature in this game though is the ability to combine spells. 
 You can make a massive fire wave and then zap off the survivors with a bolt of lightning. Melee 
 combat has been changed quite a bit this time around, you have to learn flourish attacks through 
 experience rather than starting off with them as in the first Fable 1. The visual effects are great 
 though, when you are fighting enemies next to a cliff or on a platform your character can sometimes 
 hit them with a mighty blow and knock them off the edge. Skill has also had it's fair share of 
 changes. In Fable 2 the more experience you invest in skill the taller you become. Guns have also 
 been implemented into Fable 2, along with being able to zoom in on specific bodies parts and disarm 
 or behead your opponents. As with melee, you must learn how to jump and roll while using your ranged 
 weapons instead of starting off the game able to do them. 
  In my opinion Fable 2 has had more good changes than bad. The heads up display has been replaced 
 with a dog which you can teach tricks and interact with. The dog will point out buried treasure 
 hand help you fight your enemies. Though sometimes the dog's barking can become annoying as it 
 finds treasure quite often and makes sure to let you know. 
  The experience gaining aspect of the game has changed alot this time around. Instead of monsters 
 dropping only green experience orbs they now drop red orbs for magic, blue orbs for melee, yellow 
 orbs for skill, and green orbs for general experience. Instead of having to travel to location 
 to spend you experience points you can use them to level up anywhere, even in battle, so if you 
 feel your fire ball spell isn't working quite as well anymore you can upgrade it right on the spot.
 
  Fable 2 has alot of good aspects but it doesn't have enough to live up to the hype it received 
 before its release. After completing the main quest which is only about 8 hours long if you dont 
 do any side quests, you may find there is little to do and the game feels boring, co-op is less 
 than desirable, you are unable to actually play as your character in someones elses game, instead 
 you pick from a list of henchman then have the same stats as your character and the experience 
 and gold you earn is imported back to your game when you leave. Also you are only allowed to go 
 so far from the hero and the camera pans out to show both players on screen which makes the experience 
 seem more confined. 
  
  This game is a good game but it dosnt live up to what it was meant to be. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: devilkeeism
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 25, 2008 11:20 pm PT
Review:  At first it was a bit bored (when still a child stage) but not after you turn into adult. There 
 is where the fun begins, lots of treasure box to be discover or dig. I got the LE version so i 
 m enjoying the HALO's Master Chief look. So much to explore and treasure to be found all over the 
 map, and even in the water, lake, river and etc. Just imagine you can even start your own business 
 to make money and also have your own family and childrens ingame. Isnt it enough to keep u busy 
 and not to forget there are dungeon waiting for you to clear too. This game is just awesome and 
 is the best so far i ever played. The game is just like a combination of The Sims + Unchartered 
 + GTA + Onimusha and etc.... Get the LE one if you still have the chance. You wont regret that 
 you pay for the extra $10. But LE one no longer come with the extras and the figuring : ( except 
 for the DLC and extra DVD. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: twiztidbox
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 25, 2008 10:06 pm PT
Review:  the games main quest is a little short but the replay ability keeps it fresh with being able to 
 choose to do things different be it good or evil. the graphics are good, the same npc models are 
 used too much though. combat is improved to be more challenging but you can still pwn at a high 
 enough level. its open world like fable 1, with areas, boundaries, and loading. :)
  
  interactions with npcs are more in depth with love/hate, mean/funny, attractive/ugly bars. they 
 now talk about your smaller actions than just quest related.
  
  You can buy realestate from the git go instead of killing the owner although it makes houses cheaper 
 if you do
  
  there are jobs now (blacksmith, woodcutting, bartender, slave rescue ,and assassinations) overall 
 its a great game with minor flaws that I would recommend to anyone that liked the first one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LEGOslayer
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 25, 2008 9:52 pm PT
Review:  Peter Molyneux's original Fable came out a little over 4 years ago to mixed reviews ranging from 
 Game of the Year to overhyped piece of garbage. The "Best-selling XBOX game not named Halo" was, 
 at least in my 12-year-old-at-the-time opinion a great game that appealed to my imaginative view 
 on the world. Now, at 16, I once again travel into the world of Albion to re-open a door to my 
 imagination that has been shut for years.
  
  I'll run down the usual review list before going on to why I gave this game a 10/10. Something 
 I've only given twice to a game, Bioshock (my favorite game of all time on any platform) and Gears 
 of War (a "first-night score that I'll change after writing this review) .
  
  Lets start with gameplay. Combat is immersive yet simple. X-button is melee, Y is ranged (crossbows 
 and guns, though guns are a lot more fun than pansy crossbows) , and B is magic. The Magic is just 
 fun to use, taking a few shots to my health meter in exchange for a room clearing spell is a deal 
 I'll make any day. The rest of the controls are tight and fit perfectly. The story elements of 
 the game are on a whole new level. Its hard to describe, but its one that will put your heart in 
 your throat and pulling tears back at one moment, then laughing hysterically at something completely 
 unexpected the next. It has that emotional "pull" that many games lack. Going through the story 
 alone will take about 15 hours if you take your time, but that's impossible with the amount of 
 awesome keeping you from accomplishing it. I've had the game since I got home Tuesday, and I've 
 put about 30-40 hours into it already, and just beat the story on Friday, and I'm not even close 
 to parting with my character and his faithful dog (which is a technical feat on the part of lionhead, 
 it was hard going back to my lazy real dog when I had my virtual friend being so much more helpful) . 
 And if that wasn't enough, the replay value is extreme, I'll probably make 4 different characters 
 before I even think about putting this game on the shelf. To put it bluntly, this game is pure 
 fun to play, and play a long time.
  
  Graphically, this game is a powerhouse. That "distinct Fable look" has been jacked up for the current-gen 
 systems (compared to last-gen XBOX) . The lush landscapes and eerie swamps look just as brilliant 
 as the towns and cities they surround. Sound-wise, this game also excels. Only in Bioshock's Rapture 
 have I ever been as immersed in a game world as I have with Albion. Sure some very-patchable glitches 
 have made their appearance, but none (at least for me) have done anything to hinder the enjoyment 
 of the game. Also load times could be better, but when you account for no pop-up or texturing issues, 
 its hard to complain.
  
  Fable 2 is just a damn good game, and deserves the rare 10/10. Its made its spot on my Top 5 list 
 of favorite games on all platforms. Peter Molyneux has made his mark in my gaming heart. Also, 
 Chesty is the biggest badass ever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamegirl8197
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 25, 2008 9:24 pm PT
Review:  I have been waiting for this as soon as I finished the original. Definitly worth the wait and worth 
 all the hype! WOW! I can't put this one down! You GOTTA BUY IT! YOU GOTTA PLAY IT! Let it consume 
 your life as it has mine!!! (hey.. it's my only real vice)
  
  The graphics are wonderful, the constant companion, via the dog, is a nice touch. He comes in real 
 handy in treasure hunting. I also like the better interactions with the NPC's this time around. 
 Many hysterical lines in the game. Listen for them.
  
  My only negative for the game..... the in game maps SUCK..... SUCK..... oh ... and SUCK!!!!
  I purchased 
 the game guide so I can see where I'm actually going!
  I was also disappointed in only one save option.
  I understand you can have many different characters -- BUT -- 
 the positive to part one was having multiple saves so you can replay any chapter/part of the game 
 you wished at anytime.
  
  Other than that-a wonderful masterpiece and great sequel. ENJOY Y'ALL !!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Visiondj1
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 25, 2008 8:59 pm PT
Review:  Played it. Beat it, almost have all achievements. My view? *SPOILERS* *SPOILERS*
  
  The Final Boss is a joke, he just falls to his death, and you win. It's too easy to make money, 
 and the legendary weapons aren't anything to be super amazed at. Money is too easy to make via 
 owning property, but there really isn't anything you need to buy aside from food and pots, everything 
 else if found along the way -- this is reinforced even more by the fact that there is no armor 
 in the game, there's clothing that's only for looks, but no armor.
  
  They do a good job tying all your work throughout the game togethor at the end, but they DESPERATELY 
 need a downloadable expansion back or add-on pack... like... ASAP. The game ends with a lot of open 
 ends and questions, with a minor cliffhanger. Why is the Spire under Theresa's control? Is she 
 related to your sister in the first game? IS she your sister from the first game?! Did the final 
 boss actually die from his fall? Etc etc...
  
  Guns are a great addition to replace bows, to show the advancement of time, and are fun to use. 
 The legendary weapons are limited here, as you can only have a shotgun-equivalent of a handgun. 
 No rifles (that I know of yet) . The Dog is a great addition, just make sure you find all the buried 
 treasure before you go do all the story, cause ***BIG SPOILER*** you don't get him forever =, (
 
  
  Jobs are a good idea, but end up failing. They are really boring and annoying, and all the main 
 jobs (Blacksmith, bar tending, and woodcutting) are "worked/played" doing the exact same process. 
 You can make much more money in real-estate than jobs. My sum up? Fable 1 + Expansion on PC beats 
 Fable 2, hands down. If you were iffy about Fable 1, then Fable 2 prolly' isn't for you. Wait until 
 there's a downloadable expansion (or two) then pick it up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Phatjking12
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 25, 2008 8:42 pm PT
Review:  fable 2 is just more than an rpg game that people love, it brings back the classic that other games 
 dont have. the game might start out boring at first, but when you get to good parts. then you'll 
 get addicted to it (well for some people) . The has amazing features like online play even though 
 u cant bring ur charcter to other peoples realm, you can now get married and have kids, which im 
 sure no other game can do except for sims but u can just get married. i can go for features but 
 i dont feel like typing all of it. the games gameplay (controls i mean) is ok. the one button for 
 X (Melee) and Y (range) are nice and simple to use, but B (spells) could have a been better. like instead 
 of charging for spell power lvl. they could of just let it automatically get to the highest lvl 
 and let bubbles on the side (when u press R) have the spell u want from up to down. the camera is 
 for sure the thing they should of fixed because everytime i turn i always bump into a wall or something. 
 despite all the problems by far this is one of the best RPG games ive played since the first fable, 
 and Fable 1 really good. Hopefully this will become RPG of the year. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vergil2016
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 25, 2008 8:19 pm PT
Review:  Fable II it is the best game ever no other game can match its awesomeness its just plain fun its 
 like life for evrey choice you make there is a conciquice to it if you kill a villager you become 
 evil if you help him you become good evil leads to horns and black foot steps and good is a halo 
 and butterflies around you as you walk the town I mean as soon as you buy this game you can feel 
 how good its going to be just the sound in the menu gets you pumped and ready for action and the 
 cool thing is you go from child-hood to young-adulthood to an actual adult with a beard and every 
 thing you can even have children in the game and if you dont love your wife and children you can 
 masacrre them with a giant sword, pickaxe even a crossbow and if you are hunter you can get awsome 
 rifles in the game to headshot some of your enimies this game is just always going to be the best 
 freakin game in the universe even in 2020 its still going to be the best game ever so if you have 
 a xbox360 and $60 to $50 for the game go out and buy it now for the special edition you get a cool 
 master-chief armor and a kick butt energy sword but with a handle on it the only bad thing is there 
 wasnt very cool armor like the first one or any awesome weapons but I swear it will last you for 
 ever and ever for all you gamers out there who baught enjoy!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gearsofwar1221
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 25, 2008 6:46 pm PT
Review:  I was at first pretty skeptical about Fable II due to all the complaints about it. However, after 
 spending 12 hours straight without pauses, i can safely say it's a masterpiece. The story is just 
 right, not binding the player to it. The humour is top-notch, and the soundtrack has been composed 
 with emotion.
  
  Lionhead Studios did a very good job with the AI. It'll attempt to flank you, and distract you 
 if you try to run off. You can push enemies off cliffs, into wells, or over tables to get away 
 from it. The only downside to this is that the animations used for combat always seem to repeat 
 themselves.
  
  In the first ten minutes of the game you're presented with 5 different choices, affecting the city 
 and your reputation in the game. If you take the good and pure path, the city will be a paradise 
 with little to no crime. If you take the evil and corrupt path, it'll be nothing more but a slum.
 
  
  Though at first glance, the graphics seem mediocre, when you look up from the ground and into the 
 distance, the snow flakes and houses can be seen for miles. 
  
  I'm not going to even get started on the coop, though. It's incomplete, piece of unusuable garbage. 
 Hopefully this will get patched in the next patch, however, at this moment, it's unplayable.
  
  Overall a must have for any RPG fan, or any Fable fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: autumnleaf29
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 25, 2008 6:40 pm PT
Review:  I have been waiting on this game a long time! I have not gone all the way through the game as of 
 yet but I have put a lot of time into it. 
  Pros: the graphics are great lots of nice scenery tons of chest and digging spots for the dog to 
 help you find. I like doing jobs to make money you can make swords at the blacksmith chop wood 
 or bartender. Also there are side jobs like kill bandits, or be hired as a assasion. The controls 
 are pretty much the same set up so if you played fable 1 then you pick it up pretty quick. I also 
 like the taunting gargoyls I have only gotten to 6 but took me awhile to figure out what was taunting 
 me I thought it was something like a fairy.
  you can start a family but keep a family happy is one thing. I have already been divorced twice 
 lol you have to get a book and learn the come hither motion then take that person to bed you dont 
 have to be married to them then it asks if you want to have protected or unprotected sex then a 
 crib shows up. you can buy the book at bowerstown or buy it from a trader on the road. 
  oh the temp of shadows is cool you have to try that out.
  you can upgrade your abilities anytime 
 in the game you do not have to go back to the guild like in fable 1 that comes in handy. you also 
 get a icon that tells you when you have enough to level something up. 
  Guns are so cool. it helps keep groups back and you can pick people off at a distance good weapons 
 are pretty expensive. you can do things to make them cheaper by making the vender love you or hate 
 you but when its so hard to make money it takes awhile to get the good stuff.
  
  Cons: the dog can get on my nerves he really dosent help much except to find stuff that is burried. 
 I do not like they took away the fishing pole. It was nice to fish for food instead of having to 
 buy it. I do not like that most venders only have one of the items you want in stock. you have 
 to wait for the next day or go to another town to buy more of something. It is easy to get fat 
 but hard to get back to skinny. you have to eat loads of produce like celery to get skinny. fat 
 is not attractive when your a female. the demon doors are harder to get into at least I think so. 
 I miss the small map I liked when it showed where you have been. this world I get lost and cant 
 remember where things are. The game will speed you through it if your not carefull it gave me the 
 cruciable one but I was so not ready for that so you have to watch where your going. I REALLY miss 
 having things in chest there are lots of chest and barrels but nothing in them. And when you kill 
 someone there is no search I miss finding gold and potions on people I killed or at least kicking 
 there heads on the ground after I killed them now you can not do anything once they are dead.
 
  I do not feel like the spells are very powerful I have them up to level 4 and it hardly does anything 
 to foes. I depend on guns or swords. even the shock wave dosent knock foes back like it should.
 
  I have ran into glitches my character gets stuck and takes awhile before I can get her to move 
 often this happends on the side of cliffs lol and when she is fat her boobs jiggle while making 
 swords. no I dont think it is ment to do that. 
  It's worth the money for sure but a lot of things could have been better somethings should have 
 been left the same 
::::::

::::::
UserName: khankster
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 25, 2008 6:15 pm PT
Review:  For the most part, I prefer shooters, action/adventure and an occasional platform game (though 
 I feel that platformers are slowly abandoning planet earth - Sonic, Crash, Spyro aren't impressing 
 me these days) . I have Oblivion, and that game certainly showed me that RPG's have come a long 
 way from the old-school turn-based stuff. What I tend not to enjoy about RPG's is that I usually 
 don't have the patience to listen/watch/participate in a story. I don't read books and I don't 
 enjoy stories much. However, Fable II is the type of game that is somehow keeping my attention. 
 One reason for this is the golden sparkle trail that tells you where to go. It's perfect, because 
 whenever I get lost in a game and have to wander around endlessly for the right path, I get bored 
 and lose interest. With Fable II, you always know where to go, plus, there's always something happening. 
 The lady who narrates the game and guides you along the story line is absolutely perfect. 
  
  The graphics: If you buy it and don't like it, you might just be getting bored with video games 
 altogether.
  They're excellent. Not completely brilliant upon first impression compared to other games like 
 Oblivion (IMHO) , but once you get into Fable II you realize that, compared to a game like Oblivion, 
 although the graphics are nothing new, the detail to the maps is eventually exasperating. 
  
  Bugs:
  Not many that I've seen yet, but there are a few. Top of the list: the captions that 
 appear giving you pertinent/relevant information often disappear before you can read what they 
 say. I've even tried to "speed read". Another (arguable) bug is that when you use weapons or spells, 
 they often don't hit the enemy you're targeting. Lastly, when battling numerous enemies, it gets 
 a little too chaotic to tell who you're aiming for.
  
  Overall:
  Complaints aside, this game is every bit worth the money and also the book. Not being an RPG-er, 
 I bought it because I love games, popped it in, and after about 30 minutes found myself getting 
 immersed in what I think is a modern masterpiece. I can appreciate the kind of work that went into 
 building a game like this.
  
  Bottom line:
  This is a masterpiece. If you buy it don't like it, you might just be getting bored with video 
 games altogether. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gearsofhalogeek
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 25, 2008 5:35 pm PT
Review:  To start off this game would have been a 10 in my book if it would have been possible to die (instead 
 of getting knocked out and then getting right back up after a slow motion death scene, losing some 
 experience and getting a scar) . The only other gripe I had with the game was, it was too easy, 
 and too easy to make money. Other than that, it was beautiful graphically, and the sound was top 
 notch. The story has been really good so far, even though you interact with people with expressions, 
 instead of a text, choose your response, which i prefer over Fable 2's expression system. It feels 
 like your character is a Mute. The fighting in Fable 2, is simple and easy, (even though i didnt 
 like the way to change your spell you have selected) . So far after playing around 11 hours into 
 the game, the best equipment ive found has been off merchants, which i prefer either finding equipment 
 off of dead enemies, or out of treasure chests. (note i have not opened many silver key treasure 
 chests, so this may change in the future, but so far, i have only found experience items, and healing 
 items in treasure chests. which i dislike)
  
  Although these gripes are minor, I feel they are enough to constitute a 9 rating. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TFrieden0928
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 28, 2008 7:01 am PT
Review:  Fable one was one of the most extravagent games on the original xbox. Even though it didn't meet 
 the high expectations of peter moleyneux it was still a great innovative experience than ever before. 
 Now, four years later Lionhead has crafted a masterpiece for the next generation. Never before 
 has there been this much freedom in any game. Its basicly a hybrid of the sims and elder scrolls 
 oblivion tacked on with assasin's creed combat. Its also annoying how the hype of this incarnation 
 is stretched by exageration of Peter Moleynex, you still can't carve your name into a tree when 
 your a child and then it will be there in the future. But on the otherhand, this sequel is giant 
 leaps ahead of its predcesessor.
  
  To Start off, the game gives you the power for you to do anything you like at any given time. Whether 
 its buy new equipment, explore the vast world, do side quests, start a family, interact with its 
 peoples, or even just tackiling the main story. Speaking of the main story, it should only take 
 around 10-15 hours to complete if you rush through it, but that would be a giant mistake if you 
 want to truly experience fable II. Being in the interim of the game is the strongest highlight, 
 all your choices are in that stage, wandering around in the huge world of albion is also great, 
 the game world is designed so artiscally vivid that all other fantasy rpgs look obsolete. Technicly 
 its outstanding but its not as advanced to a level such as the 360's top graphical powerhouses.
 
  
  The story in fable 2 is nothing special, but its adventure aspects is the main treat. Its much darker 
 and grimer than the original but the expressions used to talk with the npcs don't exactly fit in, 
 with a game world that is supposed to be serious with its problems is surrounded by hilarious dialouge 
 and ignorant expressions. The fairly tale look of the original is replaced with a more serious 
 makeup, although it does feel like a nice adventure novel. The beginning events remind me of a 
 harry potter atmosphere but its not as cheesy. The game picks up shortly after that. Its tale is 
 filled with death, destruction, and heroic deeds but its not that far from your typical rpg scenario. 
 A hero either saves the world or destroys it. You start out with you as orphan with your sister 
 rose in bowerstone, a city that is filled with poverty, crime and cold temperatures. many kids 
 have trouble living on the streets such as you and rose. One day, a traveller comes and offers 
 to sell a magical box that supposely grants its users with one wish. Castle Fairfax is far off 
 in the distance next to your shack and your sister wishes to live in a castle like it. The box 
 costs five gold coins and to get it you need to perform several odd jobs such as cleaning a warehouse 
 filled with bees, or finding arrest warrants, each job nets you a gold piece. these quests serve 
 as a giant tutorial, but its also filled with a couple few choices to make. Good or evil, but the 
 rest of the game is filled with choices, which in my opinion is deliverd quite well. your choices 
 have a impact on you and everything around you. But back to the story, after you attain the five 
 gold coins you are notified by the guards that lord lucien, the game's main antagonist, request 
 your presence. you journey to castle fairfax in the middle of the night, without revealing too 
 much of the game's details lord lucien murders your sister and a bullet to your hero sends him 
 flying threw a stain glass windows. this sets the rest of the game, terasa a old blind woman, finds 
 you unconsious with a dog, and she raises you til adulthood. The main objective is get revenge 
 for your sister and save albion from its destruction. Its a short and sweet adventure if you rush, 
 but most players will find themselves in the middle of exploration, family, side quests and much 
 more. Your dog plays a key role in the game, he is your friend, your pet, your battle allie. He 
 can find treasures for you, protects you in battle, performs tricks and other things. Its strange 
 how good the dog's AI is. Actualy, you will care for you dog and i never had a emotional attachment 
 to a virtual animal in any videogame. The dog kicks ass. The game world also evolves over time, 
 trees will grow over once snowy plantations, and locations sometimes will change dramaticly, cities 
 shift and grim spots become glorious amusement parks.
  
  Whats a rpg without its combat right? to get it out of the way, it reminds me so much of assasin's 
 creed top down battles, as you get stronger brutaly, you can parry strikes and counter, chain attacks, 
 strike violenty with flourishes in slow motion, sans assasins creed. The problem with oblivion 
 was that you were held to a few attacks, magic and a repeating strike. but fable fixes that annoyance, 
 the combat is wide open with possiblites and ultra cool magic, but its missing magic strikes with 
 your weapons from the original. thankfully the fights are much more brutal, bloody, and violent, 
 with a much faster pace.
  
  Choosing what character you would like to be is the central objective from lionhead. Your actions 
 affect a ton of attributes, most preferbly your personality. Purity is sided with those who always 
 do good or is aiming for that heroic status, while the uncleansed speak for themselves, killing 
 innocent people, and other non-heroic actions. Whether what you do, the game will claim you as 
 one or the other, with a whole bunch of "middle" titles in between. The game also ranks your attractiveness, 
 you likeablility, your fame, your tendicies, battle stats, travel stats, if you eat a lot of food 
 of course you get fat, but the clever thing about this is that you will become unpure. Vegatarions 
 and non drinkers are pure. the game throws a ton of things at you to decide what morality you have. 
 And yes. you can have sex in the game, morality plays key in the too. if you have unprotected sex (ummm... yeah 
 fable 2 has condoms!!! Sheep skin maybe???) you will get drained of pure points. and you might catch 
 a std or knock up a female. you can have babies too yes, yes. but if you use unprotected sex for 
 the right reasons you would lose points. vice versa, protected sex. if you cheat on your wife that 
 is. Basicly you can start a family, although it is rather an annoynance. your wifes need support, most 
 preferbly gifts and money. if you dont make them happy, they will eventually leave you taking the 
 kids, luckily there is no child support. besides your gold digging spouses, your kids need you 
 to raise them too. if you are a goody too shoes your child will most likely act the same, and if 
 you are a complete devil don't be suprised if you see your child getting involved in gang related 
 activites, although i never saw nothing but bad behavior and nagging. you also can buy every single 
 building in the game, the world is filled with fantastic monuements that you can buy, and luxourious 
 houses, you can even buy castles! decking them out with furniture and other things such as rent. 
 the game lets you make money even when the console is off. also, each location is unique and is 
 filled with wonderous secrets, for instance my castle had a huge ruin in it. getting money, isn't 
 no joke, you actually have to work for it. jobs are rather tedious minigames, but it shows that 
 nothing in life comes easy, work to earn it. although these minigames are quite fun. Character 
 customation is a must in every western style rpg, although fable 2 does very well, it doesn't offer 
 enough. For a game that is centered on you as an individual, you can't really make your perfect 
 hero. the game doesn't let you choose your race, and appearance, actually i haven't seen any other 
 race than humans, and not to mention they are all the same color. clothing/haircuts/and tattoos 
 are decently diverse though.
  
  As for its flaws, there isn't too many. for one, its tremendous hype is cut short, it isn't what 
 peter molyneux said it would be. but it isn't far from what he said. fable II is a truer version 
 of what peter molyneux intended, for good or worse. thankfully, its good, no, its one of the best 
 titles out for this year, and a fantastic rpg for the 360 or any other system. its also a step 
 foward for fantasy rpgs, in most respects it beat elder scrolls oblivion as the dominant rpg of 
 this era, but in some ways, it comes up short. Fable II is the best rpg out right now, and one 
 of the better experiences i've had in a long time. but ultimately its a tad bit short on perfection. 
 The game is missing some key features, its story, all while good, needs some polish and longetivity, 
 its character creation choices needs to be broadened, the camera needs work, and co-op seems rushed. 
 it works, but its stripped of some single player options, the second player has to play as a preset 
 hero, so your dreams of wandering in a world with your buddy's hero remains in dreams. the graphics 
 aren't up close and personal such as oblivion, mass effect, and upcoming fallout 3. but it is darn 
 beautiful and indulges your world, a little more techincal prowness and power would of been nice, 
 thankfully the game has lots of charm and the color palette pops out. its also missing some combat 
 attacks, as i mentioned earlier. but in the end, fable II should be played by every gamer, its 
 so simple to pick up and play, and everyone can enjoy it. its very charming. in my opinion, its 
 the biggest hardcore title out now that can be enjoyed by many.
  
  
  Final Score-9.75
  
  *subscores are out of 10
  
  Graphics- 8.75, Although it isn't technically powerful, but impressive 
 at a level, its artistic design is so wonderful that its a visual style is unique. its very beautiful 
 and very charming. 
  
  Sound 10- Dialouge may have a few hiccups but the music is so moving and adrenline pumping, the 
 sound kicks in always at the right moment to get the best effect, the music box's tune are wonderous 
 and so is the game's main themes that i stared at the tv in awe.
  
  Controls 9.5- simple and easy to play. its combat is not complicated but you feel like you have 
 complete control.
  
  Gameplay 10- there is so much to do in this world, and its packed tightly with quests, minigames, exploration 
 and much more.
  
  Story 9.0- Much darker than the original, its serious enough to make you care, and its funny enough 
 to make you laugh out loud, the ending is one of the best i've seen storywise, but i wish it was 
 a tad bit longer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -HaloHitman-
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 25, 2008 4:46 pm PT
Review:  Ever since the first fable came out we were in shock and awe at the depth of the RPG, but now since 
 we have Fable 2 it is even better.
  The look of fable 2 is nothing like anything you have ever seen, the graphics are outstanding in 
 making you feel like you are actually in a fantasy world. The depth of the game is so huge you 
 will often find yourself being sidetracked from the story and often getting involved in jobs, buying 
 houses, or raising a family, I know I was sidetracked for awhile. Speaking of the story it is kind 
 of short, the story isnt as good as the first, but hey, which story is better than the original?
 
  The town design is so huge that I often got frustrated because I constantly kept getting sidetracked 
 with the different areas. The combat system is very simple, X to attack, Y to fire gun, B to use 
 magic. The way you use magic and your weapons is very fun, you can also equip your sword and gun 
 with augmentations that you can find or buy in the world. The Good and Evil side when you play 
 the game isnt like the first, but it is a new step in the series. The game is so fun that you will 
 be playing it until you're fingers hurt, which is a good thing because the game is that good. It 
 is sorta like the Sim's but fantasy style.
  The only bad side I found to the game is that the loading times take FOREVERRRR, I could probably 
 watch all of The Lord of the Rings series before it is done loading, other than that go out and 
 buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stappy
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 25, 2008 2:58 pm PT
Review:  I was at first pretty skeptical about Fable II due to all the complaints about it. However, after 
 spending 12 hours straight without pauses, i can safely say it's a masterpiece. The story is just 
 right, not binding the player to it. The humour is top-notch, and the soundtrack has been composed 
 with emotion.
  
  Lionhead Studios did a very good job with the AI. It'll attempt to flank you, and distract you 
 if you try to run off. You can push enemies off cliffs, into wells, or over tables to get away 
 from it. The only downside to this is that the animations used for combat always seem to repeat 
 themselves.
  
  In the first ten minutes of the game you're presented with 5 different choices, affecting the city 
 and your reputation in the game. If you take the good and pure path, the city will be a paradise 
 with little to no crime. If you take the evil and corrupt path, it'll be nothing more but a slum.
 
  
  Though at first glance, the graphics seem mediocre, when you look up from the ground and into the 
 distance, the snow flakes and houses can be seen for miles. 
  
  I'm not going to even get started on the coop, though. It's incomplete, piece of unusuable garbage. 
 Hopefully this will get patched in the next patch, however, at this moment, it's unplayable.
  
  Overall a must have for any RPG fan, or any Fable fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OverkillAzault
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 25, 2008 12:55 pm PT
Review:  I've only played this game for about 10-20 hours starting from the date it was release, so far 
 i'm still on the learning curve i guess because i spent so much time explorng and going around 
 town. I dont really like the control and the fact that i cant assign them like i used to on da first 
 fable game, the expression and magic for example i love taunting the enemy while i battle them 
 jus by pressing a button but now i have to press 2 or more before i can express an emotion by then 
 im sorrounded already and getting beat up , i do like the infinite magic u can dish out thou the 
 charging is slow. The world in fable 2 is really huge in fable 1 i can easily recognize where im 
 at any given time in here without the gold trail you'll be lost. Right now im focusing on making 
 a family and doing small quest here and small job there. It really is a great game ,i gave it a 
 10 because i love fable but to tell you the truth its more like an 8.5-9.0. This is my first ever 
 review on a game and the first game i bought since halo 3 and GOW. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: n00bslayer
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 25, 2008 12:09 pm PT
Review:  Fable II, roughly 4 years after the original Fable for Xbox, Fable II manages to yet again meet 
 and exceed my expectations by a long shot.
  
  Review: 
  
  Graphics: The world of Ablion is a rather beautiful place. With lush forest scenery and great textures 
 and character modeling, the game manages to look stunning. There may be a few moments however, 
 especially during high intensity disk reading, that there may be some uneven textures. Overall, 
 very impressive graphics, especially if you like the art style.
  Graphics: 9.0/10
  
  Gameplay: Combat this time around has improved greatly over the first Fable. It doesn't seem like 
 your pushing the same buttons to swing your sword and watch the same combos over and over again. 
 Now, combat is incredibly deep and will not get boring, while at the same time it is very accessible 
 to new players. This is because of the 3-button combat system Peter M developed. Quests and storyline 
 are also splendid. You can find yourself lost in hours on ends doing various quests throughout 
 Albion. This game really sucks you in!
  Gameplay: 10/10
  
  Sound/Audio: Beautiful soundtrack for this game. Each environment has a different music theme which 
 mixes in perfectly with the setting. the BOOM of the guns and the clashes of the swords sound very 
 realistic and powerful. The voice acting is also superb. Some areas also have very soothing music 
 while battle music is much more fast paced
  Sound/Audio: 10/10
  
  Achievements: Best achievements I have seen on an Xbox360 game thus far. They are incredibly imaginative 
 and very fun to complete. "The Hunter" is one of my favorites :p
  Achievements: 10/10
  
  Overall, this game is outstanding. Without a doubt it deserves a perfect 10/10 highly recommended 
 purchase. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Firearchsage
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 25, 2008 11:05 am PT
Review:  If you have played the first Fable, then you understand me when i say that the maps are much bigger. 
 there's more of a chance to stay good and still be able to get buildings for more money. in the 
 first Fable, you had to kill the owner of the house or shop that you want to own. then you had 
 three days before a new owner is brought back to own the store or live in the house. now, in Fable 
 2, you can just go up to the slips of paper on the buildings and just buy them.
  
  there's another portion of the game that i enjoy which is the co-op section of the game. if you 
 had the first Fable for Xbox, you would understand this better than those that have never played 
 it. there was no co-op in the first Fable, but you could talk to people that were playing the game 
 on your friends list.
  
  there are 2 sections from this game that enjoy the most, and those are the jobs that you can get 
 around town, like blacksmithing and bartending (2 of the easiest jobs to make a lot of money in, 
 especially the bartending) , and that you can use dyes to change the colors of your clothes and 
 your hair.
  
  i hope that you enjoyed my opinion of this game in this review and i hope that you would consider 
 getting this game. it's just that amazing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ticklepie
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 25, 2008 10:56 am PT
Review:  Ok, everyone seems to have problems with the main storyline but i dont. yes fable: lost chapters 
 hade a more in-depth story but i cant see why people lower the score because of it.
  
  Being able to choose between male and female is brilliant and with the hair dyes and new apperance 
 features you can make your dream hero.
  
  Not having armour anymore is useful because you can get your hero to look exactly how you want 
 him/her without having to worry about protecting yourself. 
  
  The jobs are cool, renting houses works properly and the whole game is ooozing awesomeness!
  
 
  The fighting is even cooler than before and the spells are brilliant. 
  
  Having guns to replace bows was a good idea because you cant pick between fast shooting with lower 
 damage,
  medium speed and damage or slow attack speed but super high damage. You have these choices with 
 melee weapons aswell.
  
  The dog is super useful and has been programmed realy well.
  
  The some reasons i say its the best RPG is because the combat is more fast-paced than Oblivion 
 and the whole experience is less stressful than Two Worlds.
  
  This game in my eyes is perfect. Lionhead has done it again and delivered a long lasting memorable 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darksaw66699942
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 25, 2008 10:03 am PT
Review:  I loved the game. I got it a midnight opening played it for a few hours. It didnt get me into it. 
 Then I played a little more the next day and I was hooked. The story does need work. SPOILER!!! 
 There really wasnt any major boss fights. The trolls were the hardest for me. But still killed 
 them under 2 minutes. I focus my strength on will power. Outfits were disappointing. No armor value 
 like the first game. and none looked very cool. Unless you can get the halo gear. Other then that 
 not very pleasing. Same with the weapon selection. I had the best weapons within the first half 
 of the game. And I didnt even transfer my pub game cash to this guy. wanted to see how hard it 
 was to collect some gold. The in game menu for selecting a using items is long winded. say you 
 have 3 of the same potion but you wanted to use them all. you can use one at a time and then have 
 to go back into the menu and find that potion again and so on and so forth. the good and evil system 
 has me confused. I was fully good after I finished a quest. saved turned off console came back 
 a few hours later then i was wicked as sin. so i didnt understand that. halo to horns in a save. 
 Back to the story. game is short for my taste. I ran all the quest before going on the ship and 
 etc. and they left it open for a third I guess. but peter didnt like doing sequels so if he does 
 a third that would be great. but i dont see it. the whole dog love thing is amazing. i am not animal 
 lover. dont hate them just not for me. but when you play for a while then you dont see your dog 
 a while you feel a little whole in your heart and you get a little worried. so i loved that idea. 
 i need to work on the marriage thing. i got married and had a kid but i went questing too long 
 so the wife left me and the child was gone as well. so for next game if there will be on more weapons, better 
 clothing, better story. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamer_Wolf
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 25, 2008 9:46 am PT
Review:  Ive been playing this game for about 30 hours so far since i pre ordered it and i was amazing at 
 how beautiful and in depth the graphics are. The dog is a nice touch to the game so you feel closer 
 to your character for having this companion, but the dog makes the game way to simple in finding 
 hidden dig spots and treasures. When i was getting close to the end of the game and i got all the 
 3 heros of power or something like that the game frose during a cutscene and now i had to start 
 all over... i was evil at first, but then created a good pure character that everybody lovd. im 
 telling you the difference between good and evil is very signifigant and impants how people reflect 
 upon you and how town development progresses depending on the quests you do. I also found out (which 
 is pretty awesome) is that you can buy a house with your wife and have a family! that is pretty 
 realistic and so is this game. You cant really do anything bad in the towns without being attacked 
 by guards to make you pay up or do some easy community service. Overall i love this game and are 
 still finding new treasures and benefits to being good or evil and i do salute Lion Head for making 
 such a interesting and funny game to own in my collection of games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lt_Maverick92
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 25, 2008 7:32 am PT
Review:  Fable 2... I think when we all first heard that it wasn't shipping with multiplayer, or that they 
 had to cut back on the special edition (which was probably a good thing) , we assumed already that 
 it wasn't going to live up to the hype. Well, that's wrong. My review of Fable 2:
  
  
  The Good: 
  
  Very original story line
  Beautiful Artwork
  Use of the Dog as an emotional 
 attachment to the game
  Real flowing economy
  Fun combat
  You can own almost everything
  Multiplayer is fun
  Character expressions
  
  Getting to 
 be evil is way to easy, but being good is a challenge, which makes a lot of sense.
  
  Your choices really do effect the world around you.
  
  The Bad:
  
  Graphics are a little 
 above par
  Money making is way too easy (Master Cleaver an hour into the game o. O)
  Main character can't talk (but i've already gotten over that)
  No armor, only clothing
  
 
  
  Fable 2 is an overall great game. While I agree with Gamespot that they moneymaking in the game 
 is too easy, I have to disagree with the fact that they say loading takes way too long. I haven't 
 had any problems with loaning. Using jobs as a way to earn money is a lot of fun. Following the 
 path of good vs evil is also a challenge. Gamespot complains that it is too easy to become evil, 
 well think about it, isn't it easier to become corrupt and evil person, than to follow a path of 
 purity in goodness in a world filled with temptation? The Dog is a wonderful WONDERFUL addition 
 to the game, he gives you an emotional attachment that might otherwise bore you after a while.
 
  
  The multiplayer in the game is also pretty good, although I don't like that you can't use your 
 character in another person's realm. The Crucible was a lot of fun. And, I think one of my favorite 
 part of the game, is that the economy really flows, and the choices you makes do effect what happens 
 later in your Hero's life.
  The graphics could use some tuning up, but the artwork of these places is unbelievable, kudos to 
 the Lionhead artists for a great job on that.
  
  There you have it Fable 2 a solid purchase.
  
  Gameplay: 9/10
  Story:10/10
  Graphics:7/10
 
  Replay Value:9/10
  Difficulty:8.5/10
  
  Overall: 9/10
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hurricane66
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 25, 2008 7:20 am PT
Review:  If you look at the games I have played the only two RPG's you'll find to date are Oblivion and 
 now Fable 2. I am more of a "lots of action, exploding, and damage" gamer. I don't know what it 
 was about Fable that sucked me into the ype machine.... perhaps all the hype or the fact that for 
 MY taste there's been a pretty severe game draught since like April (Force Unleashed being the 
 exception) . The minute you boot up Fable 2 it has you. From the stunning visuals to the EXCELLENT 
 narration its a delight. Then, as you start playing, the story line is engrossing and the gameplay 
 is intuitive and fluid. The sidequests and possibilities of having a job and family are fun enough 
 that you get distracted from the reportedly short (10-12 hrs) main quest. I have been playing for 
 about 15 hours and I've barely scratched the surface of the story because I'm enjoying everything 
 else I can do. The option to be really good OR really bad gives the game endless replay value as 
 does the online co-op. I would highly recommend this game to anyone like me who isn't a "strike 
 and then wait your turn" RPG fan but a fan of building up a character and taking him/her through 
 an action filled game where you control your characters fate and actions. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jimdog16
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 25, 2008 6:55 am PT
Review:  First and for most.
  
  I do not understand how gamespot can give a game like gta 4 which don't get me wrong is great a 
 10/10. For doing justice to the genre of open ended gang land gaming but then rate a game that 
 clearly does the same for bringing the RPG genre to people of all backgrounds and might I say does 
 it very well a bland 8.5/10. . . . .I can't help bet feel as though they are playing favorites. 
 There is clearly so much more thought and artistic value put into fable than the gta series.
  
  Anyways to the point.
  
  I have only played up to the entrance of the arena section of 
 fable 2, though that being said have spent a great deal of time on the side parts of what makes 
 the fable series great and can happily say that this game is imo fantastic. The character morph 
 is a lot more subtle and tailored to individual game styles. With morphs for things such as whether 
 your character is a gambler or a secretive killer who makes all the right choices then takes innocent 
 towns folk up to his/her attic and shoots them similar to the style of the demon barber of fleet 
 street.
  
  To sum up this is yet another brilliant accomplishment from the main man Pete. Looking forward 
 to more excellent titles from lionhead in the future.
  
  "everybody look at the moon"
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: nonamestochoose
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 25, 2008 1:45 am PT
Review:  this game is awsome even with some minor issues this game is great!!!!!!! it may be a little easy 
 but its not all about combat. people are complaining of how short the game is. well its your choice 
 whether you want to make the game long or short. love the gameplay and the dog. the coop may not 
 be that good but the game was really meant to be single player. great graphics. if your looking 
 for a game full of secrets this is a must get. it just never gets boring! i think this game deserves 
 a solid ten. i think this game even deserves game of the year!!!!!!!! the dog is so life like. 
 it feels as if im playing with another person. this is a game you could beat and keep playing and 
 never get bored. theres so many choices youd have to play it more than once. for true fable fans 
 youll love this game. dont stop playing. i cant! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SilentEternal1
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 25, 2008 12:34 am PT
Review:  The thing I liked most about Fable II was the characters, and their "emotional" component. I grew 
 rather attached to my family, and I did love my dog, to the point where when one guy in bloodstone 
 kicked him, I shot him in the head. The characters are much more believable in their actions, motivations, 
 and emotional responses than was the case in Fable I. So in that aspect, Fable II succeeded admirably.
 
  
  From the game play perspective, the game was pretty fun. I like the combat system overall, though 
 the targeting mechanics were a little imprecise, which made targeted spells are sharp shooting 
 difficult when you're trying to pick a specific target from a crowd. The spell system was annoying 
 at first, because the early level spells weren't very powerful, but once you learn the system and 
 how to use crowd control to buy yourself charging time, it is quite nice, and rather satisfying. 
 
  
  On to the downsides. The game was a bit glitchy. One time I jumped off a cliff and my character 
 froze in the falling animation, so I floated around above the ground until I got fed up and reloaded. 
 
  
  Sometimes it gets tricky to move because of the crowds that form around you, and it's annoying 
 that you can't close the door of your house, because then everyone just follows you inside. 
  
  The map system was also annoying. the lack of a mini map wasn't so bad, because the bread crumb 
 trail was very useful, but the start menu map was too small and un-zoomable, so when you're trying 
 to look at it to find a specific vendor, or if you're checking what buildings you haven't bought 
 yet, you can get no useful information from it. 
  
  Overall, I loved it, you get the fantasy feeling of god like power, along with an rpg element made 
 all the easier by characters that you can actually connect with. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dryker
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 24, 2008 3:05 pm PT
Review:  Fable 2, in a word, is magical. Peter Molyneux's ( and Lionhead Studios ) Albion is a trip down 
 the Rabbit Hole to Alice's Wonderland, well, at least the Wonderland the creator intended before 
 Disney snatched it up and drizzled sickly sweet sacrine all over it. Prepare to be transported 
 to a world gone mad, whether it be the deranged ravings of a duo of momma's boys incanting arcane 
 formulae to call forth extra-dimensional beings from twisted spheres, the Scottish Brogue mockings 
 of cynical gargoyles that ridicule any who pass by their pointless perches upon ruined spectres 
 of the past, and sentient sculptings imprisoning demonic deities to defend doorways with riddles 
 and challenges the likes of demanding dreadlocks and cheese, for Fable 2 will derail your dreams; 
 figuratively, though for myself, literally. I haven't written a lick since I slipped it in my box. 
 My book will have to wait, for I'm haunted and this apparition must be appeased.
  By the game's reckoning, I've played for 86903 seconds or approximately 24 hours ( just calculated 
 that and I suspect it may be wrong, I've been playing for three days straight) . I've spent a lot 
 of time building my character, wealth, and relations so I have a good base to proceed through the 
 story with. I can not speak for the entire story, for I'm not quite finished and have no idea how 
 much longer there is to go, but so far it is fascinating. I'm enjoying it much more than the first. 
 I'm glad I decided to build my skills and wealth before-hand because it opens so many more gameplay 
 options and makes for a more immersive experience. What I originally thought to be a pretty shallow 
 combat system has turned into quite an array of attack options. Though, I must say, the combat 
 is not so much engaging or visceral, rather than inventive and fun. It won't put you on the edge 
 of your seat, but will constantly entertain through enemy hijinx or enemy and audience commentary 
 ( granted that you collect villagers to follow and be your own personal Peanut Gallery) . The tension 
 does seem to spike when you bring one of your favorite villagers along and watch as he gets hacked 
 by Hobbes or bit by Balverines though. My favorite tactic so far is to charge my Chaos up to five 
 and send my foes into a frenzy of friendly fire, self depracation, vomiting, ground scrubbing, 
 and prety much every expression in the game as I sit back and watch the chaos ensue, occasionally 
 zooming in on one of their heads to pop it off with a quick shot from my Master Flintlock Pistol 
 augmented with Discipline and Lucky Charm ( Extra Experience, Damage, Defense ) before giving their 
 corpses a minute of a my middle finger and ramping it up to a full dual-fingered **** You. Good 
 stuff!
  Anyways, I need to get back to Fable 2, er, umm, I mean that book I'd mentioned. Ah, hell, who 
 am I kidding, Fable 2. I can't recommend this game enough. The world is a better place with things 
 like this in it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jasonheyman
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 24, 2008 2:50 pm PT
Review:  One word for Fable 2! Brilliant! The depth of this game is unbelievable! If you don't have the 
 patience to build things up like money and play the simple side job games then this is not a game 
 for you! But if you find that rewarding than you will love it! Some missions can seem strange but 
 in the end the story line does very well. The combat mechanics could have been a little better 
 but all in all they did ok. The thing that struck me the most about Fable 2 was the control over 
 every decision you make and how each one changes the outcome of the story and yourself (the way 
 you look) (popularity) . I hope to see another installment of Fable after playing this one! It was 
 just down right fun to play! this to me gave RPG's a new meaning! Next best to Final Fantasy series!! 
 I hope the next Fable will be even better and will be a definite purchase for me! Definite Fable 
 fan after this one! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wake_of_Eden
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 24, 2008 2:09 pm PT
Review:  The bottom line is Fable II is a great game. The graphics are amazing, the atmosphere is breathtaking, 
 and the combat is just plain fun! But one thing that needs work on, is yourself. 
  
  Hero, oh Hero.. How lovely you are with your muscular body, ripping abs, astonishing physique.. 
 but don't mix up your wardrobe or else you're butt will knock down the great wall of china! Really 
 Lionhead, does his ass have to be THAT big?
  The thought of being able to form your character into whoever you want him/her to be, is what really 
 pulled me into the game.. at first. But most of the clothing you can customize your character with, 
 (the little that there actually is - But I'll get to that in a bit) are totally out of proportion. 
 If you have a fat character then I guess it would be ok, but for those who decide to go on the 
 veggie diet and keep himself/herself looking slim, then stay away from certain clothing. The reason 
 why it matters, is because how are you supposed to look bad ass when everything makes you look 
 like your the president of the twinkies society?
  This reason here makes it worse due to the lack of variety there is to customize your character 
 with. I've only played through it once so far, being a moral hero. For the most part I ran around 
 shirtless wearing tattoos. Better than looking like a bowling ball.
  
  BUT, for me that is one of the only things that I didn't like about the game. And that alone certainly 
 does not stop Fable II from being a great game! It delivers in a lot that it said it would, but 
 on the other hand some other things aren't as good as they said. 
  
  Overall, this game is great, but could have been even greater. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheLastSamurai
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 24, 2008 2:03 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay:
  The controls are simple and easy to use, this plays well for the game as in the there are times 
 at which your character will fight upwards of fifteen enemies at a time. X controls melee, Y controls 
 ranged, and B controls magic. The simplicity makes controlling your hero accessible to anyone.
 
  
  Story:
  The story is nice upgrade in terms of length and content as compared to the first game. Each main 
 quest has similar objectives, however completing said objectives is vastly different. There are 
 side quests and story points along the way, some are simple and slightly passible while others 
 have a large impact on the look and feel of your world.
  
  Customization:
  Thre are many things that one can do to customize their heroes. From clothing, to weapons, from 
 houses to shops. Almost everything in the game is purchaseable. When you purchase buildings and 
 shops one gets money from sales and rents periodically, all of which can be raised or decreased, 
 thus affecting purity and how others view your hero. Another big problem for the game is that gold 
 is easy to come buy, too easy. All one has to do is invest in a couple shops and soon enough you're 
 living the high life. Your character can perform deeds that are morally good or evil. Your character 
 then has purity levels, corrupt and pure that are not affected by your alignment, good and evil. 
 
  
  Cooperative:
  One of the biggest selling points for the game seems to be its biggest shortcoming. If two people 
 want to play on the same console, all one has to do is press start on a second controller and they 
 can pick from six predefined henchman. The camera locks and the players must stay on screen together 
 and cannot go a certain distance from one another at all times. This is ok for offline. However, 
 coop over Xbox Live is exactly the same. Players who join anothers world cannot use their hero, 
 they must use one of the six henchman, and must again stay together in the same screen. This is 
 completely unnacceptable considering the current technology of games. It boggles my mind that Lionhead 
 did not allow players to use their own heroes and control their own camera. The idea of being within 
 the same area would however make sense but nevertheless, coop suffers from this.
  
  I could go on and on, but the sum of the parts makes the game a great buy for any fan of RPGs and 
 Action games or someone who simply wants to be feared or revered. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AmazingMage
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 24, 2008 1:25 pm PT
Review:  Freedom. This is you life, this is your world, you have the freedom to do anything you like in 
 it. From crushing skulls to creating life. Your every action effects everything around you. So 
 what will you do?
  
  That's entirely up to you, follow the story line straight through, or don't follow it at all. Be 
 an assassin, be a bounty hunter, be a blacksmith, be whoever you want... be your self.
  
  Lets get to the point now, this game is astounding, minor glitches when the dog runs through you, 
 but that's about it. I couldn't live without the graphics on this game, the cinematics are from 
 another world, i didn't know such imagery could be created. From start to finish ever bit of video 
 is jaw dropping.
  
  Which leads us to actual game-play, i couldn't ask for more. There are loads of ways to fight, 
 every one just as useful as the last, there are hours of free roaming and treasure hunting, and 
 many days spent with the family. You can almost not run out of ways to play the game through.
 
  
  Speaking of re-playability, you are faced with moral choices every day, in everything you do, even 
 eating! If you raise the prices in your shops and houses for rent you become corrupt, people see 
 you as greedy, power hungry, as much as they might still love you, they hate going to your shops.
 
  
  But corrupt is not evil, to be evil you must be murderous and hateful, unrelenting in your pursuit 
 to destroy towns and absolutely crush every day people. Corrupt just means you love money, you 
 love power, and you'll do mean, sneaky things to get it.
  
  Of course to be good and pure you must do the exact opposite of what you would do to be evil, stay 
 true to your wife, and child if you have one, fight only evil, donate to the temple of light. Only 
 eat fruits and organic foods, if no animals were hurt in the process then its considered a pure 
 act.
  
  Bringing pain, however, is very much a necessity. And there are man ways to do it, from dismemberment 
 to absolute obliteration. All your weapons are useful, and all can be used in harmony to create 
 combos for massive amounts of experience.
  
  You can be a master with a sword, magic, or ranged weapons, or make a conjunction of two or all 
 three. Magic can stun people, blow them up, turn them to smoking bones, blow them away, pierce 
 their hearts, and make them altogether lose their minds. Being skilled with a sword will lead you 
 to big combos that can end in decapitation and slow motion kills. Your ranged weapon, once your 
 skilled in that area, can be used to blow limbs and heads off.
  
  So in the end, how you live is your choice, marry a town whore, marry a bum woman, marry a man, 
 marry a cross dresser, marry tons of people at once, then kill them all. Be a proud parent or yet 
 again, kill all the children. Its your choice, be a hero, or be a zero. This is your world, will 
 you leave it be? Will you destroy it? Will you make it prosper?... Will you rule it, or will it 
 rule you? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Illscrewyoubig
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 10, 2008 12:28 am PT
Review:  Fable 2 has long been awaited for as a shining hope for the revival of the suffering X-box franchise. 
 It wasn't what it cracked up to be. A great game overall, several broken mechanics ruin the fun.
 
  
  The combat system is very simple, hit X, Y or B. Overall the combat is pretty versatile. Quest 
 monsters offer a slight challenge, and can be deadly if you are caught off-guard or take them lightly. 
 However, on the other end of the spectrum, your everyday normal wilderness creature is nothing 
 to be feared. Often dead before you know it, these monsters usually don't come in large enough 
 packs to offer any challenge.
  
  Another annoying feature is the fact the magic is so easily accessed. By simply brushing the B 
 button, you erupt in a frenzy of insane magic. While mostly decent, the fact that if you cast magic 
 without a target enemy, the spell hits all creature around you, including your dog, NPCs and guards. 
 Thus, press the wrong button in town, and you will have the law on you in a flash, and a lot of 
 scared shop-owners. Otherwise, its a pretty decent mechanic.
  
  However, the most horrible and game-breaking mechanic is gold. Early on, you have a very limited 
 supply of gold, and must work hard at jobs to be able to buy that prized hammer or actually get 
 a title that doesn't include chickens. However, once you start to grasp the economics, it is a 
 breeze to keep the cash flowing. Buy a house and leave the x-bow on or off for a day and it repays 
 itself. Once you start monopolizing shops and villages, the cash reaps in, with astounding amounts 
 that cannot be imagined. Needless to say, several days into the game you can buy any equipment 
 the traders sell. However, even more frustrating is the concept of time. While your x-bow is off, 
 you gain gold as if time was elapsing in the game. However, when you log back in, no time has passed, 
 but a large portion of your money has suddenly multiplied drastically. Just as confusing is the 
 matter of your family allowance. When you fast travel, several hours or even days pass, and the 
 allowance is deducted in a lump sum, yet for all those days passed, no income from your rent is 
 received.
  
  Also, there is a very big lack of logic in the economic system. When you get a store owner to like 
 or fear you, they sell goods to you for a lower price. However, they also buy goods from you at 
 a lower price, something which makes it obvious the designers didn't pay a great deal of attention 
 to detail. Likewise, owners who hate you sell goods for more, but also buy goods for more.
  
  I will not have a rant here about loading screens. Everyone seems to hate them and say how 
 crappy they are and how they ruin the gaming experience. I beg to differ. At the beginning, they 
 are quite enjoyable and hilarious, adding humor to the game. It adds a feel of depth for those 
 who have played Fable 1 (and not so much for those who haven't) , but soon loses its novelty. Still, 
 it is a small price to pay for such outstanding graphics.
  
  It is these sorts of lack of attention to detail that has made such a normally engrossing game 
 fail to reach its potential. 
  
  ** SPOILERS **
  **** Spoiler Rant ****
  * Contains Spoilers *
  Fable II is quite horrible in its storyline. While decent, and engrossing 
 in areas, there are definite periods when you get lost in the tedium (The Spire) , and you just 
 wish the game would end. Also, the lack of a real boss fight makes for a pretty dull game (the 
 closest to a final boss is a Great Shard that is pretty simple to beat if you have maxed abilities) . 
 You kill your arch-nemesis so easily, you just watch a really long and boring (bland and emotionless) 
 cut-scene, then you either shoot him off a cliff with one shot, or watch your new comrade shoot 
 him off a cliff. Nice diversity in choices to deal with the matter. The lack of epic boss fights 
 in the game, and occasional hiccups when darkness and cramped conditions combined with multiple 
 foes using annoying AoE magic to constantly keep you off your feet while doing little damage is 
 also a very annoying factor. Overall, a decent game; not living up to its predecessor at all (I 
 blame the idiots who QQed about Jack of Blades) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ilovemath
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 24, 2008 10:59 am PT
Review:  The thing that i find most disappointing about fable 2 is how "real" it is. They took the fairy 
 tale aspect out of the game. instead of a bunch of memorable characters like lady gray and the 
 town guard and maze and that b**** whos always competing with you and whisper and thunder you get 
 this mess of characters that you cant keep track of. And its really annoying when half the town 
 falls in love with you and you cant get anywhere because theyre all blocking your way. All the 
 will power has to be charged now. targeting an enemy is a b**** in this game. It doesnt have the 
 same sort of "comic mischief" element in this game. it almost feels like the game is smarter than 
 you. in fable 1 you could steal and apologize and the stupid guard would be like "ok just dont 
 do it again!" and walk off. in this one if you kill someone, even by accident, everyone knows and 
 even your wife does, and she could be like "i love you so much" one line and then the next line 
 out of her mouth is "you murderer". This game is much more glitchy. And its just TOO big. You have 
 to spend FOREVER searching for treasure to get it all, and when you do, it's usually something 
 stupid like 100 gold. in the first game there was a beaten path, and you traveled along it, and 
 once in a while you were able to travel off it, and if you did you would be rewarded. The character 
 also runs kind of funny. making money with a job is super annoying because theres times when the 
 slider thing goes smoothly and youll be able to see and predict when it turns green and sometimes 
 where it kind of glitches and youll mess up and have to start all over. and traders could have 
 a good one day, and you work a job for 3 days to get it, and go back and they dont have it anymore! 
 wtf do you do then! one of my biggest problems with the game is they took out the minimap at the 
 bottom of the screen. i have to stop, and press start, and look at the map, which is usually extremely 
 vague, and then guess which direction i need to go, and then press start again and check the map 
 and make sure. I hate the sparking line you have to follow. It gets all mad if you go off the beaten 
 path. It's like on star. "at the next intersection, make a legal u turn-at the next intersection 
 please make a left-legal u turn-left-WHERE ARE YOU GOING?!?" "STFU ON STAR I KNOW WHAT IM DOING... dumb 
 whore". its much harder to be super good or super bad. because the map is so frustrating, it makes 
 getting places really difficult. and the whole "81 hours to get from a to b" sucks cuz no one wants 
 to divide 81 by 24 and see if the shops are going to be open at that time. you also get master 
 weapons available so much earlier in the game. and you can buy them really easily which is ANNOYING 
 because you dont have to work for anything. if you buy your wife clothes, she doesnt wear them. 
 all the women in the game are hideous haha. my wife is wendy the whore. i got a kick out of that. 
 i hate what they did with flourish. i hate having to spend experience points to learn zoom or even 
 first person shooting or BLOCK. they got rid of guile which is annoying. you cant really steal 
 anything in the game. vaulting and diving is lame. when you get in water you have this period where 
 you stop... and then go. i do like the addition of the dog though. he makes finding treasure easier. 
 the thing that would be helpful is the ability to add tacks onto your map about where like silver 
 chests you cant open yet are. or if theres a certain vender you like. i just dont know. this game 
 is good, i liked it for a while but then it just kind of got annoying... i could play fable 1 all 
 day long. fable 1 had that magic, that feeling of a fairy tale. finding armor or special weapons. 
 doing ridiculous quests. fable 2 just doesnt have the same feel, which is disappointing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rsims
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 24, 2008 8:49 am PT
Review:  Fable 2 may not have lived up to everybody's expectations, but for the most part they hit the nail 
 right on the head. 
  
  Graphics: The graphics are beautiful. The cities, landscapes and characters are very detailed. 
 
  
  Sound and Voice: Excellent! The music, sound effects and voice acting are all top notch.
  
 
  Fun Factor: Very high. Combat is very fluid and interactive just like they said it would be. Not 
 just a normal hack-n-lash, unless that is what you're going for. It can be as complicated or as 
 simple as you want. A little easy and death isn't all that scary, but overall very fun!
  
  So, why the 6.5 with all these good points? See below:
  
  Stability and pollish: Horrible. 
 There are more than just a few game breaking bugs in this game. Several little glitches around 
 every corner. Not everyone has experienced them, but many have. I myself have not run into any 
 game-breakers, but plenty of odd things that scream "Where was QA!?! This game is not polished!". 
 Information sticking on the screen. Quests not disapearing even though you've completed them. Monks 
 that wont get out of the way and I mean just un-responsive and stuck. The list goes on and on.
 
  
  Lionhead did make a great game, but only when it works correctly. I know we live in the time of 
 downloadable patches, but something must be said about the released quality of work. Not everyone 
 can patch and honestly no one should have to, especially not for bugs as obvious as these. 
  
  I definetily recommend the game, it truly is awsome, but would have to also recommend waiting 
 a few months. Let them get the patches out first and make sure you have the ability to get those 
 patches or you just might regret it.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: blezk
Rating: 6
Date: Oct 24, 2008 8:11 am PT
Review:  I'll make this brief. There is quite a few technical issues but you need to play to understand 
 what i on about. the online mode - you arent able to take your character into others worlds which 
 was dispointing. you are given a premade character. the story is a bit boring. The graphics are 
 good in places but not much improvement from the last one. the combat getsold. fast. other than 
 that it's k just not what i had in mind. Most people i think will love this it just not for me. 
 within a few hours of playing i was wishing that i bought far cry 2 instead. Never mind eh. i'll 
 trade it in next week for fallout. on a positive note the music is fantastic an really sets the 
 mood. there have been two times when the sound has cut off completely, hence the technical issues 
 i mentioned. the last thing i will mention which kind of dropped my score the most was the control 
 of the character. from the first time i controlled the character, he didnt seem to move in quite 
 the way i wanted. he doesnt seem to turn right and contrlling him gets a bit akward. i not trying 
 to make this review sound bad on purpose cause i loved the first one it just hasnt lived up to 
 what i expected. also besides all the issues it really isnt that bad a game its just not for me. 
 hope this helps you all. and please rent before buy. if i had i wouldnt have it
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kjolnir2
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 24, 2008 7:56 am PT
Review:  The review title says it all. I think Fable 2 is a representation of how Peter Molyneux originally 
 envisioned the first Fable. The world is larger, more immersive, open, and "real." There isn't 
 anything you can't buy, steal, kill, destroy, impress, win over, love, or use to generate income. 
 It is truly open, and while there is a central plot and the accompanying quests and events, I haven't 
 spent but an hour or so on them. I've been too busy running around making money chopping wood and 
 smithing swords to try my hand at the pub games, buying real estate, and exploring off the beaten 
 path. I'm sure eventually I'll get around to pursuing the primary plot path, but for right now, 
 I'm having too much fun seeing what the world of fable offers.
  
  On the downside, I think the jobs you can take are WAY too "grindy." I feel that there is probably 
 a more fun and less "grindy" way of making swords and chopping wood, and selling drinks, particularly 
 when you consider that there are multiple locations and iterations of each. Maxed out your wood 
 chopping in Oakvale after chopping up 500 pieces of wood? Head across town and chop another 500! 
 Meh. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lordmasterrof
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 24, 2008 7:40 am PT
Review:  And it is fun!
  
  Fable II is definitely a great game. I never played the first so sadly can't compare it to that 
 - but there for my review might be better for debutantes like myself.
  
  You start out as a small child with your sister in the amazing city. The graphics is not overwhelming 
 but with a lot of charm, and it hit me right away, i was really happy to see a game where the surroundings 
 keep me interested, i couldn't wait to explore more of this big virtual world.
  
  Anyways - you start out with a simple tasks, and have this yellow line to help you find your destined 
 target (it doesn't always work "perfect" like i want it to, so you gotta stop for a sec, to see 
 if it is actually that way you have to run again, kinda annoying, but it's overlooked within a 
 little time)
  
  After a certain task, a little cut scene arrives. The cut scenes keeps the "in-game" graphics some 
 times, which kinda annoys me as the "beautiful" animation scenes are absolutely stunning.
  
  You then grow up and now the real adventure starts. It is a pretty weak story to be honest, 
 but i was aware of that before buying it...
  
  In-game magics are unbelievable fun to use, summon zombies, teleport, fireballs, so on and so on 
 - reminds me of X-men, but in a good way you know. Nothing better than teleporting yourself behind 
 an enemy and just kill him from behind (and you are actually have to use magics to survive some 
 battles)
  
  But besides the general stuff you also have your doggy.
  A little companion who is very neat, and very cute!
  
  He barks when there are stuff to be 
 interrogated or such.
  
  Of course there is always "the moral choice" now don't go think being evil is all that easy in 
 the beginning. Killing a guard fast is no option with bad weapons, so maybe wait out a bit, and 
 if you just have to kill someone choose the "follow" option to make a civilian follow you into 
 a dark alley, and then kill him/her.
  
  You can buy shops, houses, weapons, furniture, titles, etc.
  
  In fact, with money enough you 
 can practically own a whole city (but that will cost something though! :P)
  
  There are tons of stuff to tell about Fable II, but in general it's a very nice game, lots of time 
 to use on it, and with charming graphics, great controls, nice sound, and a feeeew flaws that can 
 be overseen, i would recommend it a lot to people who loves RPG, cause this for once, is a nice 
 RPG (and there ain't been much of them the last couple of months...)
  
  So hope you got a bit out of my review, and hope you will enjoy the experience of Fable II (i have 
 not done Co-op just, but add my game-tag and ill meet you online, BYE!)
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Brandon2127
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 24, 2008 7:20 am PT
Review:  Fable II is a game for particular gamers. If you liked the first one for any reason then this game 
 is worth a buy.
  
  Graphics: This is my favourite part of the game. The graphics (and the music but I'll cover that 
 in a minute) are colourful and alive and really give the game an atmosphere that you can connect 
 with. The detail really astonished me when I looked at it. I know they aren't the most realistic 
 of any game but the cartoon feel of the graphics really help the impression that you are in a story. 
 10/10
  
  Music: The music score is wonderful as well. Each piece suits the area it is connected with perfectly 
 helping create an engrossing atmosphere. 10/10
  
  Story: I have read many complaints about the shallow nature of the story due to your character 
 not having any lines for the entire game. I have to disagree with this as many good RPGs don't 
 have any main lines for the main character, for example, OBLIVION and Baldur's Gate (the older 
 ones anyway) . As for the story itself, I was watching from the side while my best friend played 
 it for 4 straight hours and I found myself completely hooked. 9/10
  
  Gameplay: This where the game begins to fall down for me. The combat system is too simple for such 
 a hyped RPG in my opinion, although it's still pretty fun and the good variety of spells lead to 
 some interesting encounters.
  The levelling system is something I never really liked in Fable. Since it's ALWAYS possible to 
 learn everything you can't create a unique character with a Perfect Game. I prefer some restrictions 
 when it comes to strength in my RPGs.
  The freedom throughout the rest of the game is very high, going where you like, making money, buying 
 property, making fun of people, scaring people, killing people or just kicking chickens. This has 
 always been Fable's ace in the hole. The only very VERY tiny bad thing about this one is that it 
 is too easy to make money especially for those who bought the Pub Games. 8/10
  
  Online: Ahhhh... the big one. You'll be getting more complaints for this one Peter (not from me 
 I might add I just thought this part was a bit stupid) . The online co-op firstly has a terrible 
 camera that neither player has control over, why not give control of the camera to the player who's 
 world it is. The other problem is that the other player appears as a henchman on the screen... 
 WHY?... Apparently the reason was that Mr. Molyneux only wanted one hero per world for the adventure. 
 None of us see the logic there chief, patch it pronto and a lot of people will forgive you.
  The one thing I do like is that you can turn on ALL player orbs meaning that (due to the proximity 
 chat) the game turns into a mini MMO, not a bad idea I thought. 7/10
  
  Overall: A worthy sequel let down mainly by the hype. Tip for people who still intend to play future 
 Lionhead projects; Check for release dates, trailers and screenshots, avoid everything else and 
 you won't be let down. 8.85/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dracowyr
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 24, 2008 7:03 am PT
Review:  Unfolding much like an epic children's storybook, Fable 2 delivers a story and gameplay rarely 
 seen in console systems.
  
  From the moment the opening cinematic begins, an incredible amount of passion, talent, and attention 
 to detail has been spent in bringing to life the world of Albion. It has a very Harry Potter-ish 
 feel to it - but in a good way.
  
  The introduction (childhood) of the game does an excellent job of introducing us to our hero (or 
 heroine) and the world he lives in, as well as to the gameplay mechanics.
  
  Gameplay is quick and unencumbered - and won't be a struggle to players to master. The combat system 
 is well designed, being intuitive and fast-paced.
  
  The open world leaves near limitless possibilities, and is a true triumph in game design. You can 
 buy and sell shops, rent out homes, and affect the economy of the world around you by decorating 
 the buildings you own, selling items at your shops at a profit or at a loss.
  
  Your actions affect the world around you like never before - Whether good or evil. The inhabitants 
 of Albion will love you, or learn to fear you.
  
  The music score is nothing short of what you'd expect in an epic film. The voice acting talent 
 is among the best seen in today's games.
  
  Fable 2 is destined to become one of the games that defines the xbox 360 platform. It's charming 
 design, cinematic feel, makes it a great experience to play and replay.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: GBHopkins
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 24, 2008 6:35 am PT
Review:  Fable was fun, but it had problems. I was hoping Fable II would bring all the fun of Fable without 
 the problems  alas this didn't happen.
  
  Fable II is a good game that is a lot of fun, but don't expect it to be perfect. You will have 
 a lot of fun playing, but there are nagging issues that keep Fable II from being the game it could 
 be. I feel the world map and lack of any challenge is Fable II's biggest flaws.
  
  World - Broken with loading zones:
  The loading time between zones destroys the ability to become 
 engrossed in the game. Sometimes they become downright frustrating. The zones are a lot bigger 
 and let you do some exploring, but you are reminded you are playing a game every time you leave 
 the area. You go from exploring, combat, and having fun to doing nothing for 10 - 20 seconds. Don't 
 accidentally leave an area and need to go back, that really sucks.
  
  Combat - Too easy:
  The ease of combat is a little upsetting as well. Combat is good, but you are never challenged 
 by enemies. The game seems to be on a permanent "Very Easy" setting. 
  
  Gold - Too easy:
  Making gold in the game is unsatisfying. Being able to get a job seems fun 
 at first, but after 30 minutes you are a master. Gold is so easy to earn it is meaningless.
  
  Reputation - Too easy:
  If you want someone to love you, interact with them for 1 minute. 
 I understand you are a celebrity, but EVERYONE wants to marry you very quickly. If it took time 
 working on one specific person to get them to love you it may be more rewarding. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Onyx99
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 24, 2008 5:51 am PT
Review:  I think I will love this game but it has some minor issues that make the game too easy for my liking. 
 At the start of the game, after I became an adult, I brought two properties now I'm making money 
 hand over fist. There's no struggle to get the best equipment. The jobs are fun even though its 
 the same mini game for every job. I like the system to make a person fall in love or hate you but 
 they flip flop so easily.
  
  Because I have a lot of money and good weapons quests have been very easy so far. I hope that it 
 becomes mor challenging later in the game.
  
  Visuals are great, music is great, voices and sound effects are terrific.
  
  I am playing as 
 a good hero first then I will replay it as evil. I'm hoping this changes the game but I don't think 
 it will be significant.
  
  Getting married and having children sounds cool but I am avoiding it since I am in no rush for 
 that in real life.
  
  Haven't tried the multiplayer yet either but will look into it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BigMikeInVA
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 11, 2008 12:14 pm PT
Review:  The expectations for this game were very high and in some aspects it delivers. I enjoy the basics 
 of the game play with the melee, ranged and spell casting. The story lines to date are interesting 
 and unique. The one hangup I currently have in this game is the lack of information and ease of 
 finding information that is there. One scenario is I was trying to make Jackson (my dog) do some 
 tricks and I could not figure out which expressions made him perform certain tricks. I looked through 
 the menu and could find nothing that said how to make my dog perform certain trick. I ended up 
 just running through every expression to see which ones worked. A couple of times the game has 
 gone buggy. One instance was at the beginning of the game trying to destroy the bugs in the building 
 for the old man, it would not allow me to shoot the bugs without moving forward. Every time I pressed 
 (Y) it would show me what the criminal in the window stats were. There have been a couple of other 
 things along the way. Overall fun game and the replay value for me is high, but it could use some 
 work from the program side. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JUMBOSAUSAGE
Rating: 6
Date: Oct 24, 2008 3:24 am PT
Review:  I wish i never bought this game i thought the online coop was going to be fun but its pointless 
 you cant even go away from eachother you have to share a camera which i dont see the point off 
 because the xbox could of easily handled it like gta and another thing you cant even bring your 
 own hero in the game. The camera is horrible if you want to go away and the other person does to 
 it stops and you can barely tell where you are i dont see why the people who made it done that 
 the xbox could of easily handles it. The graphics are like not even much better than fable 1 im 
 not joking. After i complete this game im going to sell it i bought it for the coop mainly because 
 i thought you could explore and do quests together without sharing the same camera its horrible 
 if you disagree with this deep review then you can play oblivion and eat some cheese burgers without 
 cheese 
::::::

::::::
UserName: illudian
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 24, 2008 1:24 am PT
Review:  I didn't keep up much with the development of Fable 2 nor did I hear about many of the promises 
 that were made about this game so I am not sure I can say it was over hyped.
  
  The game itself seems as if they tried to ease into the difficulty and then never made it harder. 
 The combat system while entertaining gets repetitive and once you learn how to fend people off 
 and live your ok. Even if you never learn that there's not much of a consequence for dieing, you 
 gain a scar and lose any experience that is on the ground then pop back up to continue killing 
 where you left off, no reloads, no discredits, just those simple things. The good and evil bars 
 are still there but were changed a little and now include a purity and corruption slider which 
 affects how your character looks. While these were great ideas it really doesn't matter what you 
 choose because either way the gameplay is the same. Yes people react differently and their dialog 
 is slightly different but you get the same story either side you go.
  That aside they did a good job at the interactivity from having to court a girl and get her to 
 like you before marriage and the choice between unprotected and protected sex all the way to how 
 open environment it is with many quests that require you to explore much of it.
  This is one of the saving graces of this game. If you find the story getting a little hasty then 
 why not start a family, or work to get money so that you can buy property, or do one of the multiples 
 of side quests that will send you all around the place. In this game there is always something 
 to do even if it's just exploring because you want to find everything.
  
  The story is decent and at times can be very compelling and drag you in to the point of not realizing 
 how much time you have played that day. The problem is that it feels a little rushed, it kinda 
 just throws you from one to the next without much explination on who the characters are, what it 
 is that you are doing this for, or even how any of it really matters. Seeing as how this game takes 
 place 500 years after the first Fable I expected a back story on how the world changed, and in 
 general what led up to everything thats goin on now. Saddly I was disappointed, you get a quick 
 backstory on your character that you play through and a 2 minute cutscene on something that happened 
 somewhere in that 500 year gap. Your kinda stuck there being told "You have to do this cause your 
 the only one who can."
  
  The graphics are wonderful, though the modeling doesn't seem to have changed between Fable 1 and 
 Fable 2, and coupling that with a decent score there will be many a time when you get sucked into 
 the game.
  
  Choices were supposed to be a big thing, how even one small choice could make a huge difference 
 in the future and yet many a time it went unnoticed. Sure there are changes both immediate and 
 in the future but only in two cases were they actually obvious all the others were very subtle 
 things that will go largely unnoticed.
  
  Overall the decision to once again leave out many of the promises that they had will certainly 
 bring down the hardcore fans, but good graphic and a decent sound score coupled with how interactive 
 the game is and a decently engaging story will be plenty to keep your average gamer happy if not 
 ecstatic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bunyip94
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 23, 2008 11:28 pm PT
Review:  Fable 2 what a game sure theres a boring bits like if you dont know what to do or your tring to 
 get some money from jobs but the combat is very different and very good compared to fable 1, my 
 over all rating 9.0 kk kk kkkkkk k kk kkkkk kkkk kkkkk kkkk kkkkk kk kkkk kk gggg gg ggg gg gggg 
 gggg gg gggggg ggggg gggg gg ggg gggg ggggg ggg ggg ggg gg gg gg g gg gg gg ggg ggg gggg ggg ggg 
 gggggg ggg gg ggg vdhgfvcg v gfd gcx b xvcbvcbvccvbcvb cvbbvcbc vf ggfb f gh df g df gfg fdg df 
 fg gfht h h jh vc v cgxc vxc bvc b b xgdfxgbcvbv nbv ncvn cvbvcbf r g fgxcfv h n g cxgvcm g vcxbjcxg 
 cxbvkcx jk kjb jk jk jl; jl j; l kjl; j ;lj lkj k jkjk jk j kjk k j k j k kkkk k k kkk k k k kk k 
 k k k k k k k k k kkkk k kkk kk kkk kk kk kkk kkkkkk kkk kk kk kkkkk kk kkk kk kkk kkkk kkk kk 
 k k kkkkk kk kk kkkk kkk kkkk kkkk kkk kkk kkk kkk kkk kkk kkk kk k k k k k kkk kkk kkk kkk kkk 
 kkk kkk kkk kkk kk kkkk kkk kkk kkk kkk kkk kkk kkk kkk kkk kk kkk kkk kkk kkk kkk kkk kkkk kkk 
 kk kkk kkk kkk kkk kkk kkk kkkk kkk kkkk kkk kkk kkkk kkk kk kkk kkk kkk kkk k 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Frenzyd109
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 23, 2008 10:55 pm PT
Review:  Fable ll, finally here! As many people have already said, this game was WAY over hyped. When you 
 put this game in your 360, don't expect the best game ever! Instead expect a comical, easy, quick 
 RPG. It has loads more content than the first, and yes, its easily ten times bigger as well :) . 
 The first hour or two of gameplay is very linear, because it is teaching you the new controls and 
 overview of the game. It starts off great in my opinion, the story being incredible. Graphics are 
 a bit improved, but it looks similar to the Original. Lighting is the huge standout, AMAZING lighting 
 to be clear... 
  On the positive side, graphics are great, controls are solid, the story is epic, a much larger 
 world with tons more content, and its pretty freakin funny at times as well. 
  Combat in Fable 2 is probably the best combat ive ever played. Stringing combos using my cleaver, 
 switching to my rifle in midair, then blasting him off the cliff with some fireballs of lightning 
 is so fun and easy to use. When Peter said the combat was revolutionary, he didn't lie. 
  I wont give anything in the story away, except that its kinda short for an RPG, but its a well 
 done story at that.
  
  On the negative side: its short (Not really) , frame rate drops often, multiplayer was COMPLETELY 
 misunderstood, Free aim when shooting is terrible, and its too easy.
  Most of the negatives are easy to deal with, and don't get too irritating. Multiplayer isn't a 
 bad experience, i had fin playing with my friends, but we expected something a bit different. We 
 thought you could take the character you made and bring it to your friends world to do whatever 
 you want... No, you create a henchman and decide who gets what exp and gold, and that's it. Not 
 a terrible thing, but we were ill informed. Other than that the games alright!
  
  Overall this game is absolutely incredible, with the references to the Original Fable, this game 
 is a ton of fun to play.
  
  Graphics: 9
  Sound: 9.5
  Story: 8.5
  Gameplay: 9
  Overall: 9/10
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: homer261984
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 23, 2008 10:29 pm PT
Review:  I'll make this short and sweet. This game is everything that they said it would be and more. So 
 much better then Fable 1 which was good in its own right. I have been plaing non stop. I only have 
 one gripe with the game and that is the occurrence of some pretty sloppy glitches. One quick example 
 There was txt giving me an order to do some task that I wanted to wait on but it never went away, 
 even when I saved and quit. It only went away after I stoped playing and came back. It's stupid 
 stuff like that that makes this game just short of perfect. I was pretty surprised they couldn't 
 catch these things. But it really does not out way the fact that this game is just purely addicting 
 and fun to play. Some other things to note which everyone is talking about are the load times, 
 they are not that bad I have seen worse and who cares there is always something funny and witty 
 to read at the bottom of the screen while you wait for the load to finish.
  
  By far the best part of this game is the combat improvements. I am not an rpg lover and this is 
 exactly the kind of rpg that anyone can pick up and play it is not turn based and the action is 
 non stop when you are in a battle. The use of blade, gun, and magic flows so well. 
  
  If you liked Fable 1 this is better if you never played fable DO IT NOW. What is really great also 
 is you do not have to have played Fable 1 to play this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NightLike
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 23, 2008 8:07 pm PT
Review:  This game i knew would be good, and its great, the choices you can make... the fighting side by 
 side with other heros. Everythings just great, however the online isnt great, in fact its one of 
 the worst online systems iv ever seen.
  
  Why is online so bad? Because you cant use your own hero when you go in other people's worlds, 
 you have to use a henchmen and im pretty sure theres no split screen. Its just one screen that 
 you and your buddy have to share... meaning you cant go off to far on your own - very annoying.
 
  
  Other then online its great, the gameplay, value, sound, visuals, storyline - could have been slightly 
 longer however the side quests do put up a lot more play.. its all A ranked pretty much! Go buy 
 it as soon as you read this. Lets just hope they update online play in the near future.
  
  Cheers! =] 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scalyjake12345
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 23, 2008 7:27 pm PT
Review:  Although i have not had this for long it is definitaly more than i really expected. The first day 
 i got it i went through the tutorial and found myself not doing the story line at all and just 
 messing around. This game is definately over-hyped and it is really fun to play. Sadly the storyline 
 is somewhat cliche but other than that i felt total awe to all the graphics from the sun to the 
 vortex spell. You can get a job and do so many other things that if combat isnt for you you can 
 still spend hours playing. That is not saying the comabt isnt good because it really is. I was 
 skeptical at first of the 3-button system but now i have found that i love it and that it is tons 
 of fun. All in all one should definitaly at least rent this if not buy it. By the way i posted 
 as 10-20 hours but i havent even started the story 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vegeta_01
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 23, 2008 7:20 pm PT
Review:  First of all, Fable II is fun. It really sucks you into the game and makes you want to play for 
 hours and hours on end. There is so much to do and the world is very large and explorable. Your 
 dog is a great help in many aspects and I, and many others I am sure, have became attached to it 
 to the point where you notice he isn't at your side you stop everything to try and figure out where 
 he went and if he is ok. That being said...
  
  Fable lacks in many areas. The dog is very glitchy, he will disappear at random, get stuck in areas 
 and at times take forever to show you that dig spot that he is so interested in. The story isn't 
 very satisfying. Jobs get boring and repetitive and if you own some property and can rent it out, 
 you will never have to worry about making money again.
  
  Graphically Fable was completely unimpressive. This is 2008, the bar has been raised and Fable 
 shows that it hasn't met the standards. Water and your character in it are laughable. The fact 
 that when it rains outside it rains inside is absolutely ridiculous and not being able to jump.. 
 That always makes me mad when I cannot make my character hop up a tiny ledge and instead have to 
 walk all the way around.
  
  If you were going to buy Fable for the amazing co-op that Peter Molyneux talked about. How you 
 could join others games with your character and take on quests and gather items. Or get together 
 with all your friends at the bar and enjoy some drinks... Then you will be very disappointed to 
 find out that you cannot do any of this. Possibly a patch will fix it though?
  
  All in all though, Fable is worth a play. It is very fun and keeps you entertained for hours and 
 hours. Just don't expect to be absolutely awe struck by any of it. I just feel like it could have 
 used a few more months in the incubator and that many things could still use a lot of work. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zaatin
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 23, 2008 6:13 pm PT
Review:  Fable 2 is a amazing game that feels very alive and will hit every emotion you have, the combat 
 can be repetitive at times but is easy to disregard due to every battle being a little bit differnt. 
 Now this game will challenge you in many ways and not like a IQ test more like a personality test, 
 you will see the world and many other things change in some way for every choice you make whether 
 it be for better... or worse. Now honestly the game's story is not to long maybe 18 hours if you 
 know what you are doing but the game has alot more to do even after you beat the main quest wether 
 it be playing with friends in co-op, mixing up you're clothes and weapons, or just staring at the 
 huge, bright, and colorful world that is Albion. Now the bad parts of the original Fable seem to 
 be long gone in Fable 2 but some of the good parts of Fable are also no where to be seen, one of 
 those things is the deep customization now I for one am a huge fan of being able to customize my 
 RPG characters whether it be armor, hair, or weapons, now in Fable 2 you can do all of that but 
 with "limited" resources so for maybe every 700 people there will be someone who looks just like 
 you and maybe even made the same choices. Another thing is that you can not bring in you're own 
 hero into co-op instead you can pick from 6 henchmen (sweet huh?) to play as which seems very.. well 
 it seems like it would be easier and better to just play as you're own personal hero rather than 
 some pre-set henchmen. The last bad thing about Fable 2 is that you make get stuck in walls quite 
 often and much of the "puzzles" you will be confronted with will mostly just be the same one from 
 another quest so it isnt to hard to feel like its to easy. With all that aside Fable 2 is a fun, 
 emotional, and a good RPG but I think with a few little tweaks and a few bug removals it could 
 have easily been a perfect game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bIacklisted
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 23, 2008 5:48 pm PT
Review:  Overall this is a great game, full of great gameplay ,physics, Pretty good graphics, a great story 
 and fun side stuff to do when your either trying to beat the game or after your done with the game. 
 Right from the beginning it hooks you in with a cinematic overview the main city Bower Stone concluding 
 to you meeting your character. With all the choices you can make all the stuff you can do, I'd 
 have to say a defiant buy. It is highly addictive and fun to play over and over again. The only 
 thing stopping this game from being perfect is the fact even though the story is grand and fun 
 it isn't long enough unless you space out the play time or just like to make a butt-load of money 
 and just sitting there hitting the a button in the green marker and one other thing is the co-op 
 cam can be annoying at times and dampens the co-op play. But overall great game must get. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tgx
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 23, 2008 5:19 pm PT
Review:  Fable hits the shelves again October 21st 2008. This time around the girls are represented. The 
 outfits for the females are terrible. The slim female fighter is gone and replaced by a female 
 avatar bigger than any amazon I have personally ever seen. A woman is built different. She doesn't 
 need to be fat or over-meaty to be strong. Muscles are different on a woman than a man when they 
 work out and eat right. The developers did a horrible job with the female physique and clothes. 
 The only appealing outfit is the gypsy outfit or nothing. Oh yeah and you can dress as a 'woman 
 of the night' with two other female outfits. Absurd that women are having these choices. My gaming 
 avatar in no way represents a physically fit woman. I honestly expected the female avatar to be 
 more like the mother from the first game. Tough, smart, slender and a beautiful mother with a few 
 battle scars. 
  
  The game overall is great. If you play the game as the male counterpart. The dog adds the compassionate 
 needs we all possess into the game. This makes it immersive and very enjoyable. The jobs are a 
 nice touch and the housing is not quite as good as before. Finding love is easier for ALL Americans 
 who play games. I gave the game an 8 because it is still a great game. It had some VERY bad choices 
 for Sparrow's look but still a great game to play. 
  
  Right now I am reaching the end of early adulthood. I fear the hag she will look like when I finish 
 the main story. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kman_13ayn_12
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 23, 2008 4:50 pm PT
Review:  YES! after waiting for almost 4 years finally got fable 2 and i was the second one to buy it at 
 Wall-Mart lol. im not very far in the game cause i havent had that much time to play it, but so 
 far it is THE BEST GAME IVE PLAYED SO FAR. Graphics are gorgiouse, combat is awsome and the detail 
 the team put into the game is unbelievable. When i figured out that the cave at the start is the 
 ruins of the guild from fable 1, i was amazed, same with when i found out that old lady was theresa; your 
 sister from fable 1. im sure there will be alot more familiar things too. If your reading all these 
 reviews like i would be if i hadnt gotten it by now i deffinetly recomend buying this game. and 
 now i have to fill up  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iR3DH4T
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 23, 2008 4:37 pm PT
Review:  
  
  So yeah... I just beat the game. I haven't been this disappointed since the anti-climactic ending 
 of Bioshock. I would like to start of by saying I was one of the people who was extremely aggravated 
 at the game review sites that gave Fable 2 a lower score than a 9. I figured that with all the 
 features that were announced, there was no way that this game could be given such 'low' a score. 
 Well after beating it, I'm thinking a 7.5 would have been a lot better. Fable TLC is by far my 
 FAVORITE game. Cool Villain, great story. Probably the three most memorable moments were when I 
 sacrificed all the warriors in order to fight Jack. Hearing his voice tell me to betray everyone 
 was epic. Then of course there was the betrayal by Maze and the decision on whether or not to put 
 the Mask.
  
  Fable 2 has great new features, but for me it had absolutely no plot. I get to meet Lucien 3 times 
 the entire game. The first when he kills my sister, the second in the Prison place, and at the 
 end in the final battle. And by battle, I of course mean pressing "Y" once and killing him with 
 one shot. (WTF?) Great boss fight -- not. I can't really recall what exactly made me a 100% evil 
 character. I didn't kill my sister, I didn't kill my comrades, hell I didn't even get to kill my 
 dog. I just kept playing and hoping that sooner or later I would get a chance to kill Theresa, 
 or all the fighters that helped me. Oh wait, that is not a choice... instead I get 3 extremely 
 lame cards. Lets see now, wear Jack's mask and merge with him to become a god, or choose for all 
 my friends to remain dead and instead get 1 million gold. =/
  
  Honestly guys, how could you in any way defend this game when it comes to the plot? Sure it has 
 cool features, and great graphics that however does not excuse the extremely lame plot.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: MackB835
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 23, 2008 4:09 pm PT
Review:  This game is alright, good, but not great. For starters, it is WAY TOO EASY. Fighting is un-involving, 
 just mash away on a random button and you cannot lose. The epic battles found in fable one are 
 completely gone, the use of magic has been dumbed down a lot. The dog is nearly useless and tends 
 to get in the way more than anything. 
  
  I'm still in shock at how simple the combat engine is compared to even the first fable (which in 
 itself was pretty simple) this one is even worse, it requires no thought, just random mashing. 
 I hate to say it, but i think the pub games part are going to make this game more replayable for 
 me than anything else about it, it is just lacking that certain compelling something.
  
  That all said, this game is still good and fun to play with its moments of comedy and socializing, 
 but i would suggest you rent it or wait for it to be in a bargin bin. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Caliswansong
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 23, 2008 1:33 pm PT
Review:  Words can do this game no justice. Just go out and buy it now. Everthing I was hoping for and then 
 some. If games had Genitals I'd let this one take advantage of me. The people that have anything 
 bad to say about this fantastic game have obviously been wronged at some point in their lives to 
 be so negative. The graphics are amazing, the dog is brilliant and the combat is the funnest I've 
 ever experienced. Can't wait for Fable 3. Do your self a favor and go buy this game. I'm having 
 a hard time writing 100 words, I had no intention of writing a full fledged review right now, so 
 here lets hope this is enough words...... Nope I guess not. Lets keep it going then. Fable 2 is 
 obviusly not for everyone but if you enjoy having fun while playing games pick this up. I can not 
 believe how long this has to be to post. Just believe it when I say this game is great. Very fun 
 with beautiful imagery. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bryu
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 23, 2008 12:33 pm PT
Review:  Fable 2 was the first in a series of games that I have pre-ordered this fall/winter. 
  - Fable 2
  - Fallout3
  - Gears 2
  - WoW Wotlk
  
  So far I can't say it is off to a good 
 start. As a huge fan of fable 1 I was extremely excited about the possibility of returning to Albion. 
 The lack of any real consequences and the rediculously easy way to earn money means that you are 
 going through the gameplay almost as if to get through the narrative. Ofcourse there are alot of 
 funny moments and side quests that are interesting but when the battles are easy to win, money 
 is even easier to make Fable 2 becomes something that feels like an interactive story book. Very 
 fancy, and funny interactive story book but still very dissapointing. The first game was awesome 
 if a bit short and while the idea of your actions having repercussions was neat it did not have 
 the depth that would have made it even more interesting and invited multiple replays of the game.
 
  
  Fable 2 has similar short comings, yes if you're a bad boy ppl. will hate you, you'll grow horns 
 etc etc. If you're good you'll get a lil halo and what not. But again, the good vs. bad doesn't 
 quite have too many differences other than that and it is far too easy for you to get through the 
 game... Only way for me to challenge my self in battles is to purposely nerf my self. Instead of 
 using the best weapons available (which is easy with the abundance of gold) I would have to use 
 some of the worst gear. Instead of using the most useful spells I would have to start spending 
 points on less effective spells to make the game challenging.
  
  It's too bad, because I was hoping that this game would build on the last one. Am I going to finish 
 the game? Yes ofcourse, I paid my money for it and the collectors edition box is opened and with 
 all my complaints I will still enjoy the funny scripts and the game narrative. But in the end next 
 Tuesday when fallout3 comes out, I don't see myself returning to Albion for a very long time... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sphynxbut
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 23, 2008 11:14 am PT
Review:  This game is great. I am really enjoying everything you can do in this game. In fact I spend far 
 more time doing side quests, jobs and other things as opposed to the main quest.
  
  The environments are also great and the entire feel and atmosphere of the game is great. Honestly 
 there isn't much that I don't like about this game when I am playing it.
  
  So why and 8.5 and not better. Well like I said, I like everything about this game when I am actually 
 playing it. The problem is, it is very hard to play because it freezes so often. I do not have 
 this problem with any of my other games and this is really a detriment to this game. If it happened 
 every so often, hay no big deal. But because it happens so often it destroys the imersiveness of 
 the game. In fact it makes it hard to play at all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: asorith
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 23, 2008 11:04 am PT
Review:  Fable 2 is a great game to play. The story line brings in some new views to the world of Albion 
 and a recognition of what once was. Continuing the story of a hero by birthright, the game introduces 
 characters nicely and provides a familiar scene of the original Fable. The game play and movement 
 of Fable 2 has some familiar and revamped features. The spells are now generalized and the ability 
 to pick different spells gets to be a hassle. Though, the ability to use a general form of spell 
 does ease the burden of pushing so many buttons. The dog is a fun companion but does seem to get 
 in the way when running, but is a big help for digging up items and finding hidden treasure. Personally 
 if I wanted a dog I would buy one. Overall Fable 2 is a great game which is greater and slightly 
 weaker than its super fun predecessor. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Foehammer111
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 23, 2008 10:55 am PT
Review:  THE GOOD:
  Sandbox world, with lots of room to explore
  Excellent setting
  Great artistic graphics 
  Epic soundtrack
  Wide variety of quests
  Fun combat
  Dog is a 
 wonderful sidekick
  
  THE BAD:
  Good/Evil choices unbalanced
  Story is weak
  Awkward camera
  Controls are a bit stiff
  Frame-rate and lock-up problems
  Menu system sucks
 
  
  The first Fable is perhaps the most over-hyped game of all time, and Fable 2 is no exception. Peter 
 Molyneux has a lot of great ideas, and he is very proud of his games. But he really needs to learn 
 to shut-up. The problem is that he gets so excited about his games that he can go on for hours 
 about theoretical stuff that never makes it into the final product. Thus, people tend to expect 
 some kind of world-changing game that has such wide mainstream appeal that even their Mom will 
 get into it. Then they are disappointed when it turns out to be a fairly standard action-RPG.
 
  
  Not that there's anything wrong with Fable 2. For the most part it's actually an excellent game, 
 and worthy of any RPG fan's time and money. But that wide appeal Molyneux promises just is not 
 here. If you don't like RPG's then you won't like Fable 2. However, if you do like RPG's you'll 
 find that Fable 2 brings a lot of elements to the table that aren't normally seen in RPG's. Including 
 online multiplayer.
  
  Let's get the worst out of the way. Fable 2's story is weak. The main problem is that the characters 
 aren't given enough time to develop, and they end up falling into a lot of the tired old RPG clichs. 
 Then there's the inherent problem with an RPG that has so much focus on player choice: everything 
 is dependent upon you. You can choose to ignore the main quest, and do your own thing. But that 
 means the story ends up taking a back seat to your character. The villain doesn't seem so dark 
 and evil when he's willing to wait for you, and doesn't make is presence known unless you seek 
 him out.
  
  The other problem with the story is that the first 2 hours or so plays out almost identical to 
 the first Fable. Within 10 minutes of the game something bad happens to you. You're then taken 
 in by a mysterious mentor figure, and trained how to fight in a tutorial dungeon before being set 
 loose to seek your vengeance. Or stand around in the town square making farting expressions.
  
  The gameplay is pretty much the same as it was in the first game, but that's not necessarily 
 a bad thing. The controls are designed to be simple, yet unlike Fable 1, they expand out later 
 in the game which keeps combat fresh and exciting.
  
  The X button allows you to do melee attacks, Y ranged attacks, and B magic attacks. Seems pretty 
 simple at first, but as you use these attacks you'll gain exp orbs that can be used to upgrade 
 your skills. As you put more points into various skills, new ways to use them will open up. For 
 example, if you put more points into ranged attacks you'll gain the ability to target specific 
 body parts. Magic attacks will have more varied uses, and melee attacks become more powerful with 
 combos.
  
  How you fight also has an impact on how your character looks, and is looked upon. Fight a lot with 
 melee weapons, and your character will buff up. Use magic attacks, and you'll develop blue lines 
 on your skin. NPC's will then comment on your looks.
  
  But playing an even bigger role in how you look is the choices you make in the game. If you kill 
 people, and act like a jerk you'll grow horns and look much more evil. People will cower before 
 you. If you do good things, you'll have a halo and bright aura about you. NPC's will cheer your 
 name, and crowd around you. Your choice of clothing and armor also affects how people look upon 
 you. These choices also have an impact on how your dog looks, but I'll get into that later. Your 
 deeds will also affect the world around you. Be a good trades-man, and the town will become more 
 profitable and look nicer. Charge too much for your goods, and the town will become a slum.
  
  The problem is that these choices are unbalanced. For example, it's much harder to become a 
 good character than an evil one. To become a good character you're just limited to doing good choices 
 in quests. Where as to become evil, you can do evil choices in quests, run around and kill people, 
 steal, sell goods for huge sums of money, etc.
  
  The developers also decided to enforce their own political ideals upon the character. One of the 
 ways you can heal yourself is to eat food, just like in the first game. Eating too much fatty foods 
 will make your character gain weight. That makes sense. But what doesn't make sense is that eating 
 things like meat reduces your purity level, and makes you evil. Where as eating vegetables increases 
 your purity, and makes you good. So they're rewarding you for being a vegan. You can save an entire 
 town from bandits, but when you sit down for a steak afterwards you're somehow evil. But in general 
 the good/evil system does work well, and has a rewarding effect on the character and the world. 
 
  
  Perhaps the best part of the gameplay is your NPC sidekick: the dog. You are introduced to your 
 dog early in the game, and you can name him whatever you want. He'll help you find hidden items, 
 buried treasure, warn you about nearby enemies, and even help you in combat. You interact with 
 him in basic ways like petting or punishing him. You can also teach him tricks, and play fetch 
 with him. If he's injured in combat, you'll need to heal him, or if you get tired of him, you can 
 leave him behind. Be warned though, if you ditch him while he's injured he'll never come back.
 
  
  The last comment I want to make about the gameplay is the sucky menu system. It's pretty much the 
 same as it was in the first Fable. In other words, it's cumbersome, and unattractive. It makes 
 switching weapons, using items, or really doing anything a pain in the ass. The map is a joke, 
 and is zoomed out too far to be of any use. This forces you to rely on a glowing trail to make 
 your way from place to place.
  
  Visually, Fable 2 is one of the best games on the 360. The art style is fantastic, and gives the 
 world and characters a unique appearance. The constant day/night cycle looks great, and there are 
 sweet looking weather patters. However, this quality comes at a price.
  
  I have experienced the game locking up several times on me in the first few hours of gameplay. 
 Oddly enough, this seems to happen most when the game is paused or during dialog sessions. There 
 are also some bizarre clipping issues and hit detection is a problem both in and out of combat.
 
  
  The soundtrack in Fable 2 is virtually flawless. It's every bit as epic as you would expect for 
 an RPG, but it fits the renaissance theme of Albion quite nicely. The sound effects are also outstanding, 
 and the voice acting is top notch stuff. My only gripe here is the NPC voices are radius based. 
 Which means that if you're more than a few feet from a person that's talking to you, it will be 
 very difficult to hear them? This almost requires that you have subtitles on. The dialog scenes 
 are awkward as well. You basically just need to walk up to someone to talk to them. No cutscene. 
 No dialog options. You pretty much just standing there while the NPC talks. Then you hold the A 
 button to accept their quest, or just walk away.
  
  As I mentioned before, the story is pretty weak for an RPG. It uses a lot of RPG clichs, and doesn't 
 give characters much time to develop. Which is a same considering that in most RPG's the story 
 is one of the main draws. But Fable 2 isn't like most RPG's. A big part of the game is the sandbox 
 world. Something that isn't very common in the genre.
  
  The sandbox is not only larger in Fable 2 than the first game, but it's also much deeper. Your 
 good/evil choices have a big impact on the world of Albion. Nearly every property is for sale, 
 and you don't need to kill the owner before you buy it. There are also trades that you can pick 
 up to earn money. But as a minor side affect, the number of ways you can make money makes it that 
 much easier to rack up the gold. You don't need to stop by your properties to get money. Instead 
 it's just added to your gold count as you play.
  
  Online play is a huge addition to the game, and is very rare in RPG's. I haven't played around 
 too much with it, but it seems to work pretty well. You'll see orbs floating around that show your 
 friend's locations in their version of Albion. Just press A when near an orb to in invite them 
 to your world. They then act as a sort of henchman in your world, and you can do quests together. 
 While playing in your world, they can earn gold to take back to their game. So they aren't waiting 
 their time while teaming up with you.
  
  Although kind of simple, the online play is a welcome feature, and greatly extends the life of 
 the game. Just like the first game, after you complete the main story you can go back and do quests 
 or just mess around with the sandbox until your heart is content.
  
  The achievements are very balanced, and most involve interacting with the world in various ways. 
 You'll have to play through the game at least 3 times to get them all as three of the achievements 
 are for making different choices at the end. The best part about the achievements is that most 
 of them can be done via co-op. Either do the achievement yourself, or see a friend do it.
  
  Fable 2 is a great RPG. It doesn't do a lot of things that are new, but the combination of 
 elements is unique to the genre. They story is the weakest part of the game, but that can easily 
 be overlooked depending on your style of play.
  
  Overall, I recommend this game to RPG fans. It won't win over many non-RPG gamers, and once again 
 has been greatly over-hyped. But the sum of the parts is greater than the first game, and that's 
 an improvement. Depending on your love of sandbox games, you can easily pour 50+ hours into this 
 game with multiple play throughs. Not everyone is going to like it, but its worth any RPG fan's 
 time and money to at least try it.
  
  STORY - 6
  GAMEPLAY  8
  GRAPHICS  9
  SOUND  9
  VALUE  10
  
  OVERALL  9 
::::::

::::::
UserName: enteyager25
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 2, 2008 1:15 am PT
Review:  So no I haven't played it very long yet, but i just couldn't wait to get my opinion out. It is 
 apparent from the intriguing opening sequence how much of a treat we're in for. Immersion is the 
 name of the game and may as well be the title of this game. Truly immersive, sucking you in at 
 every point possible. My favorite mechanic so far is the dog. I was EXTREMELY off put by this idea 
 from the beginning, especially with the notion that the idea was to be an emotional investment 
 from the player. After throwing the ball and laughing at him as he runs off toward it, I first 
 became intrigued. Punishing him is almost as difficult as punishing my real life dog. And I find 
 myself more and more obsessing over what he is doing, not wanting to miss out on a single dig spot 
 or hidden treasure. Sure he is not a perfect mechanic, he's already gotten stuck twice. But I can 
 already tell you that Molyneux knew exactly what he was talking about when he said the dog would 
 be an emotional pull. The finance system is terrific and it was a good feeling porting in my gold 
 from pub games. Nothing like starting a game with 23, 350 gold. The quests are simple, but engaging 
 so far. The combat is the same easy but addictive affair and the environments are as gorgeous as 
 expected. My one big complaint so far? Spell selector. Horrible management of the inventory screens 
 and map screens as well. Oh well, can't win 'em all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Deferet
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 23, 2008 9:22 am PT
Review:  I played the original Fable through at least 3 different times, wanting to play both as good, and 
 evil, and then once more just doing whatever I felt like at the time, and of course when the lost 
 chapters Fable came out, I had to play through that too. Now I recently got Fable 2, and of course, 
 I was one of those people who had it pre-ordered and paid off like 3 months before. I didn't read 
 much about it before hand, because I wanted to experience it first hand. First off, a big change 
 right in the beginning, you can choose to be either male or female, which is kinda awesome, and 
 then the opening movie was just SO much better than the original, instead of just the still pictures, 
 they have a full 3D movie, which they did an excellent job with. And next when you actually get 
 to play, you start off as a child just like you did in the original, but another really good innovation 
 they made, what you do here affects the future which didn't really happen in the first Fable. For 
 those people who played the first one, and those who were interested but never played, you have 
 to try this one, it's just so much better than I expected it would be! This is a must play game, 
 whether you rent or buy, play this game!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ctburesch
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 23, 2008 9:11 am PT
Review:  Ok, This game is really, really fun and good. There are so many avenues to go with this game. You 
 can go evil or good and every action can influence your likeness and more. The attitudes you take 
 with people in the countryside and villages affect the game also. I personally chose to be a hero. 
 You can also earn money in lots of different ways. Right now I am working as a blacksmith in the 
 town that I am in and have earned a lot of gold doing it. You can also gamble your gold away to 
 the gamemaster, which I have done. My game of choice is the tower card game. This game will really 
 keep the player busy for endless hours of playing time. It kind of reminds me of Oblivion but in 
 a different way, but they are still similar. The graphics of this game are really good too. All 
 in all this game has so many options and opportunity to do so much it can't be overlooked for the 
 Xbox 360 gamer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Milkbark
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 23, 2008 7:05 am PT
Review:  Okay. Fable 2. It's finally here! Was it worth the wait? Definitely! Graphics: Fully reaching the 
 360's capacity, it rivals the beauty of Oblivion. Sound: The ambient music is very calming (or 
 raging) depending on your setting. It really sets the tone for the whole game. The voice acting 
 is exquisite, and very humorous dialogue. Controls: This is the reason I rated Fable 2 a 9.5 and 
 not a 10... the ONLY reason. Although the button layout is ingenious, and makes large impacts with 
 the few buttons it uses, the movement can get buggy. It is very hard to maneuver in water, and 
 the dog gets in the way when you need to get somewhere. These occasions rarely occur, and it is 
 only a minor annoyance to the otherwise flawless game. I would give it a 9.7 or 9.8, but unfortunately, 
 those scores don't exist. Story: This is the kicker! This game flows, and the story is a strong 
 current! I won't say much on this, but just know that you will be playing it like an 8 year old 
 listening to his bed-time story. And as you all know, the concept of everyone starting equal (except 
 the male-female difference) then allowing our imaginations to wander is great and unique and FUN! 
 Well, I'll leave the rest to you, play it yourself. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sleepraider
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 23, 2008 6:16 am PT
Review:  This game is like no other and its a must have from being a little kid with no power to the most 
 feared or loved person in the world. This game is all about choice with good story to it. Albion 
 is a world that's extremely difficult to pull away from once you get tangled up in its charmingly 
 irresistible net. In Fable II's magical land, you'll come across crass gargoyles mocking your foul-smelling 
 breath, nasty trolls erupting from the middle of luscious green pastures, and flirtatious women 
 pleading with the local hero to put a ring on their naked fingers. This is a place that seems to 
 exist whether you're actually playing or not, which makes it all the more compelling when you become 
 one of its virtual citizens. The simple combat and predictable story make the early moments feel 
 slight -- as if the whole adventure will lack the depth needed to truly suck you into its spell. 
 But once your initial doubt fades away, you're left with a meticulously crafted world that demands 
 exploration, makes you laugh out loud, and urges you to experience all the incredible details waiting 
 to be discovered.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: silentbob522
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 23, 2008 5:42 am PT
Review:  Fable 2 is set 500 years into the future from Fable. Its not a necessary requirement to have played 
 the previous game but if you have you will catch a lot of nice references. Fable 2 is set in the 
 magical world of Albion. Beginning the game as a child along side your older sister whose only 
 desire is to leave the small and wretched town they live in. Eventually a series of unfortunate 
 events happen and you leave the town, and begin your story.
  
  THE GOOD
  Great Story, Improved Battle System, Amazing World, Tons of side quests and extra content, Your dog 
 is a cool add on feature, A lot of parts are extremely hilarious.
  
  THE BAD
  People get in your way, Co-op needed more thought, Bad Map, Alignments were not very well balanced
 
  
  CONCLUSION
  Overall, Fable 2 was definitely worth the wait. No it's not a perfect game, but no game is. Living 
 up to everything the previous game did, it was one I finished playing and said "that was worth my 
 59.99" 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scottydude182
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 23, 2008 4:18 am PT
Review:  I am up to the final boss battle (My Mate told me) and i cannot bring myself to finish this game. 
 I believe the best thing in this game is the sound and the voice acting. It is amazing and makes 
 the world feel alot more realistic and emotional. The map itself is not great but the graphics 
 are and this makes up for it.
  
  The combat is simple and gets a little repetative but there is three areas, melee, magic and guns 
 so you can do some awesome combos. 
  
  It is important to mention the decision making, for example i chose to capture some criminals instead 
 of helping them so when i came back in the future the town was thriving. I also enjoyed the finance 
 system and while making money was not very fun owning everything in town was. Overall a great game 
 and i believe it is a must buy and except for the weak story it is hard to find any faults with 
 such a diverse gaming experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: snuff_prelude
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 23, 2008 12:47 am PT
Review:  If you're looking for a new game that will grab you and pull you right in then look no farther 
 than Fable 2. From the moment you put the disk in your 360, you're transported into the wonderful 
 world of Albion. For those that have played the first fable will recognize the names of a few people 
 and places, however much has changed from the first game. It's a good few hundred years after the 
 adventures of fable when the story takes place, and it's a very different world.
  One of the biggest differences and easily the best from fable is that the world is no much more 
 open. In stead of being pretty much caged in to the path from town to town, (a la FFX style) , you 
 now have several large open fields between cities and places of interest. The graphics are great 
 in fable 2, while they may not be Oblivion standard, are great with the lighting and rain effects 
 being really amazing; a pan around of the fields of Bowerstone shows just how much they put in 
 fable 2. The magic effects are beautiful and add great color and flash during battles. 
  The sound in fable 2 is great; you'll find yourself turning up the volume just to hear the world 
 react to your every action. All the townspeople generally have some reaction to you just walking 
 by and will either call out in cheer and ask for autographs, or running in fear leaving just a 
 small puddle behind. The music does a great job of making you feel like you're in Albion. 
  The story in Fable 2 isn't all that great. To me it seems they just didn't spend enough time working 
 on it. That's not to say the story is bad, it just isn't worth mentioning as a strong point in 
 the game, which is just cruel to for gamers who love getting into the story of the game.
  The game play is where fable 2 shines the brightest. Fighting in the game is done with melee, gun, 
 and magic with a button for each. Playing with just one main area does work, however fights are 
 a lot more fun if you combine all 3 skill types. However because the fighting isn't the main aspect 
 of the game the layout for magic isn't that great (but hey no MP so cast as much as you want) . As 
 for leveling up say goodbye to having to return to the Hero's guild (cause it's destroyed for 1) , 
 you know level up your skills anywhere from your start menu. While the fighting is fun you're not 
 going to get the same challenge you get from games like Ninja Gaiden 2, which is to say you won't 
 throw your controller at the wall.. twice. The quest you receive throughout the game are simple 
 and mostly just a repeat of what you've done before, but what else is new in RPG's. The world around 
 you isn't set either. Your choices can have drastic effects on how the world around you looks. 
 For those who are good your world will be lively with towns flourishing and bandits won't be common 
 in the world. Those that are evil will see rundown towns, full of hookers and bums, and bandits 
 are also very common on the roads. Also it might just be me but it seems to me that it rains and 
 is cloudy when you are evil. 
  Now a review wouldn't be a review without mention of your dog. You get the dog when you complete 
 the childhood/tutorial portion of the game. Your dog is a great companion and will be finding chests 
 and buried treasure all the time, not to mention kicking some enemy but. Your dog reactions to 
 your character are great, (If you fart or burp your dog will hide its nose.) and your dog will 
 also progress in the good/evil bar with you and will change how he looks. 
  Overall Fable 2 is a great game the delivers on several fronts and gamers will love it. If you're 
 a Fable fan this is a must because it just expands in all the right places on the first game. Don't 
 be afraid to pick up the game, that is unless you don't want to get sucked in and captured in a 
 game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: algraher
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 23, 2008 12:24 am PT
Review:  The game is abit slow starting off, but once you get your gun and sword, the fun really starts. 
 I found myself playing for hours and not even leaving a city for there was so much for me to do, 
 on the draw back, you can only have one kid, which i dont believe will grow past the teens years. 
 I was really looking forward to having my son following me on a quest and killing things together, 
 oh well. And this is more of a bug im sure, but i had my wife follow me out of a city to oak field, 
 i bought i house there and moved in with her, well when i did this it said she was my second wife, 
 even though it was the same person, she even caught me cheating on her, with, well her. ???
  but like i said before, this game has lived up to all that was said from most people i must say, 
 cant wait for the third one.
  peace 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Castlevania1986
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 12, 2008 4:06 pm PT
Review:  Fable 1 was an okay game when it was first released years ago on the original Xbox. Now the sequel 
 which hit store shelves not too long ago has proven to be weaker than the first title. Fable 2 
 has a big world to explore, true indeed. But there is not much to do in that world. For instance 
 you still can't murder children, let along can you take them out into the world to explore with 
 them. And yes you can even have a kid of your own "BUT!" its rather dissappointing how they don't 
 nessacarlly become evil just because your evil. If your evil, you end up with the old town bowerstone 
 version of what appears to be a kid in torn up clothing. Other kids in town will say things like 
 "your son or daughter is awful". Yet you don't witness your child actually doing anything evil 
 or bad.
  
  The whole family system in Fable 2 is garbage in general considering the fact you can get divorced 
 for every little d*mn thing. The game itself is poorly designed with a truck load of anoyying glitches 
 that are easily noticable and bothersome to say the least. The game freezes most of the time and 
 still bares the crappy slow loading times between places when you leave and enter. As for the glitches 
 as I mentioned, you will often get stuck or in my case I was evil, then shut off the game and ended 
 up with a halo instead of horns when I turned the system back on. I left the town and my horns 
 and dark skin returned. There were also times when people were afraid of me for no reason why my 
 hero was 100% good with no negative actions performed not even once. Sometimes a guard would randomly 
 arrest me. If thats not the case, then talk to the black screen I've recieved from 4 different 
 returned copies played on two fresh new consoles. All the game does is crashes like a bad computer 
 game. 
  
  I also have to point out that Peter and his team did a awful job with adding in content. He is 
 good at telling lies, he says that no ones Hero will look like anyone elses but the sad truth is. 
 Your hero will look like everyone elses because Fable 2 has very few outfits and hairstyles and 
 every last one of them suck miserbly. Some outfits in the game are okay but you have to wear the 
 same boots with every single one. My personal favorite is the highway man outfit which is about 
 the only interesting outfit in the game. The new Will user coat isn't bad once you have the hat 
 to go with it. 
  
  Peter thought that just because you can change the outfits colors thats suppose to mean you'll 
 look different from someone elses hero online which is total BS. Other than these problems, I can 
 only say that Fable 2 wasn't worth waiting the extra days on October just to obtain a game that 
 still lacks story, and once again your seeing the same NPC characters who do absublutly nothing 
 besides wandering around in circles repeating the same junk to you. Once they get to the point 
 where they love your hero, you have to deal with 100s of the same NPCs asking you to get them a 
 ring. 
  Peter's character development team is so lazy, they also made even the low life characters high 
 classed. Almost 90% of all NPC's in the game prefer to be married before s*x. And even though c*doms 
 are in the game, getting STDs doesn't do anything to your hero. I purposly got 45 STDs and my hero 
 still looks normal, still fights normal. At least when you drink or eat you see the effects of 
 gaining weight. But the aspect of getting STDs and not seeing any effect of it on your character 
 is pointless to have in the game.
  
  I have to say I was hoping that Fable 2 would be greater than this but I had a feeling it wasn; t 
 going to be. 
  
  Some of the good things about the game is the new combat system. You can forget about bows because 
 guns are allot more fun to use. The only problem is you can no longer daze the enemies anymore 
 and behead them with a melee weapon unless you counter them first. Other wise you can just shoot 
 off their head.. Which doesn't make much sense unless you had something like a rocket launcher. 
 Even a shotgun at close range isn't capable of blowing someones head entirely off their body unless 
 they were to stick it into their mouth and pull the trigger. 
  
  Other than combat, I'll have to say that you can own any building in the game which is great! Although 
 owning a building you can't rent out like the Temple of Shadows is quite useless since you can't 
 have a kid there. The temple itself is empty, and though the wheel of despair (my term for it) 
 may seem fun at first but its just stupid how there are torchure devices all over the temple of 
 Shadows but you cant use any of them on the victims. Instead you just pull a lever and witness 
 a quick invisble death of someone getting transformed into these demons, impalement, or my personal 
 favorite switching their gender around and being able to have kids with a woman thats actually 
 a guy. Though it would of been better if there were all ready third genders in the game to add 
 diversity. 
  
  The ability to choose how you want to be evil or good is way more acceptable now than ever. If 
 you choose to be evil but pure you won't grow the ugly horns. Instead your skin changes into a 
 pale like green color and make you look like a ghoul. If you choose to be half evil your skin will 
 be pale white like a vampire. If your corrupt but good, you become more irritated in the eyes with 
 glowing green eyes instead of red. If your all the way evil and corrupt you grow the horns "BUT" 
 you also transform into a full demon. Being good and pure makes you more clean looking and your 
 hair changes blond. 
  So its allot better than it was in the first game, giving you different ways to choose how you 
 look.
  
  Fable 2 does have a great soundtrack this time around, although some places are quiet. I have to 
 say that quests could be more longer and allot more rewarding. Earning gold doesn't give you much 
 to do other than to buy buildings. The choices you make, also has no real effect on anything. If 
 you choose to side with the Shadows and destroy the Temple of Light, when you come back 10 years 
 later after the events in the Spire. The only thing that has changed in that town where the temple 
 of light is. Is the Temple is in ruins, the village itself is smoothered by fog. When instead the 
 town should of been over runned by Shadows, with the new Temple of Shadow rebuilt into a flourishing 
 evil catheral. Instead the Temple of Shadow remains as the same ugly burned down building it once 
 was when you last saw it. 
  
  Choices in Fable 2 don't do much because they are all so predictible. The choices you make are 
 easy to determine. Like giving the warrants to the thug instead of the guard will just make Oldtown 
 bowerstone look the same as it did when you were a kid. Only more beat up, yet if you marry a bum 
 or poor person they still b*tch and complain about the way your house look just like the wealthy 
 or middle class NPCs. When you take out your weapon in Bloodstone or the other lawless town where 
 you first encounter the balverines. The people there are suppose to be thugs and vicious, yet they 
 coward in fear when they see your sword unshealthed. Speaking of shealths you would think that 
 they would have them in the game instead of seeing your blade glued to your back.
  
  I can't really give Fable 2 high scores because it was a let down. Yes the game is addictive but 
 there is no way this game should be identical to the first one in any way as a long awaited sequel. 
 Sometimes I wonder how Peter got away with ruining this game. When I look at Shenmue 1 and 2 I 
 noticed it is the only game in history that doesn't have the same NPC characters. It seems like 
 Peter and his team lacked the idea of creating different characters in fable 2. And for some reason 
 the main characters can't be found anywhere in the game unless its during a mission where you have 
 to work with them. Other wise its like they are dead in Albion. You can rush through this game 
 really fast without even having to upgrade anything. All you must do is find three heroes and your 
 at the end. Its that simple, locate three of them which you meet the first one right from the beginning 
 once your an adult after getting out of the cave.
  
  The only way I can score this game higher is if Peter does another lost chapter and adds more into 
 it and make the game the way the first Fable 2 game was suppose to be. Because to me it seems like 
 he wanted to restrict us again. By not allowing you to sell children into slavery even though trafficking 
 is wrong even if its an adult being sold. But its a video game, so why limit? Why be able to bring 
 adult characters into danger but not children? Is it right to see an adult slaughtered by wrong 
 to see a child slaughtered? I've seem lots of Japanese Roleplaying games have children characters 
 in them slayed. Peter is afraid of being ridiculed by morons who probably read books with children 
 in them being killed and I know movies aren't afraid to go there either.
  
  Other limitations is like having a child in Fable 2 but your limited to only 1 child. You can't 
 have 2 or more. And the fact that you can't use the furniture doesn't add anything into the game. 
 H*ll if you break into someones house or find a house without a door on it, you can hear people 
 inside sleeping but you don't see them in the bed like you could in the first game. ANd why black 
 out the screen during s*x? There are ways to do this without revealing too much. Once again Peter 
 is a lying chicken. His team? Pathetic at designing characters and quick at slapping a game together 
 that scored a high ranking for what it was worth. A crash fest that lacks content and playability.
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: PhireStorm007
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 22, 2008 9:36 pm PT
Review:  For some reason, Fable attracts a lot of hate. Whether it be the over-enthusiastic Molynuex, or 
 the massive let down of the previous installment, or this minor ones of this one, some just want 
 this to fail.
  
  Don't listen to everything you hear. Fable 2 is a fantastic story with great choices and customization. 
 It contains fantastic features not included in many other RPGs, such as NPC marriage, children, 
 or Property-ownership. The bread-crumb trail and dog are possibly the best ingenuity in an RPG 
 yet. This is not however, a life-sim. The main focus is still on the story, and the choices made 
 within. I must say- the story is great. Its not the typical bad-guy, but the character draws you 
 in.
  
  I couldn't push this score to a 10- and I swore this game would be my first 10. The total disappointment 
 of co-op and the numerous bugs reported, some game-breaking, can't support a 10. I'm sure these 
 will be fixed, but don't be fooled. This isn't the holy-grail of RPGs, but its a seriously good 
 game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: djwood84
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 22, 2008 9:35 pm PT
Review:  Graphics: 10/10
  Fable 2 features the best graphics I've ever seen, however that statement requires clarification. 
 The technical side of the graphics are not what makes them so great, its all because of the artistic 
 hand the crafted the game world. A lighting and particle system that puts virtually all other games 
 to shame helps a lot as well. Graphics aren't something that concern many rpg players, but these 
 are so beautiful it only serves to immerse you more.
  
  Controls: 8/10
  The controls are incredibly simple, yet allows for a large amount of strategy when it comes to 
 fighting. The B button controls magic, X is melee and Y is ranged attack. The system works very, 
 very well. The camera is pretty darn good but could be better.
  
  Story: 10/10
  Expect simplicity, but expect dedication to our shared cultural fairytale past, as well as LOADS 
 of humor. I find myself spending lots of time just listening to the conversations of the townsfolk, 
 which is all brilliantly recorded. Your dog companion provides an emotional tie to the story that 
 grabs your heart and makes sure you care about the world.
  
  Sound: 10/10
  Not much to say here. Probably one of the best video game soundtracks of all time.
  
  
  
 
  Essentially, Fable II is one of the best RPGs of all time. It's incredibly polished in every area 
 and with the number of choices that lie in each game, you could probably play through the game 
 3 times without feeling repetitive. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mikhail_tisoy
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 22, 2008 8:32 pm PT
Review:  this game has to be one of the best games iv have played and the graphics wow the music is amazing 
 and gameplay is the best but it has alot of flaws the animation is abit thad but it gets good after 
 u some hours man what else can i say about this game buy it now!!! trust me you wont regret it 
 it will be onme of your best purpose ull spend coyuntless hours searchnig for treasure
  this game has to be one of the best games iv have played and the graphics wow the music is amazing 
 and gameplay is the best but it has alot of flaws the animation is abit t
  e best but it has alot of flaws the animation is abit thad but it gets good after u some hours 
 man what else can i say about this game buy it now!!! trust me you wont regret it it will be onme 
 of your best purpose ull spend coyuntless hours searchnig for treasure
  this game has to be one of the best games iv have played and the graphics wow the music is amazing 
 and gameplay is the best but it has alot of flaws the animation is abit t
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: amrfly07
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 22, 2008 7:46 pm PT
Review:  When i first got this game i went to midnight launch and waited an hour... as i waited i was thinking 
 this **** better be worth it.. it was worth every penny of its price. whhen i started i picked 
 male and saw the wonderful art and graphics. it had amazing game play.
  this game revolutionized gaming system up to date. so i think if you have the cash consider buying 
 it. it will be worth your money
  !!!! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! 1!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! 
 ! !! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! !m ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! !  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hello1283920
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 22, 2008 6:55 pm PT
Review:  Fable 2 is one of the must-have games of 2008. If its unique artistic approach and hours of gameplay 
 built in, this game is loads of fun to play single player and co-op. Though the multiplayer is 
 somewhat glitchy, in the next several weeks (hopefully) the problems will be solved. Fable 2 takes 
 a complete turn on an RPG, enabling a variety of jobs which one can achieve certain ranks or "premotions" 
 in. With its large game world, it is easy to get lost in the game. Even though the game may be 
 large, their is a certain sense of entrapment. You are able to explore to a degree but Lionhead 
 has put a lot of limitations of what you can actually do. If you liked Fable 1, then Fable 2 is 
 a must have and a great game for those new to the "series". But what makes this game a great game 
 is the fact that though it has many RPG elements, it sticks to the story and everything else acts 
 as almost side missions and quests. Their are hundreds of ways to customize your character as well. 
 Everything you do will determine what your character will look like, express, and how others will 
 react to you. The animations are done beautifully and though the graphics could be better, they 
 show tremendous detail to an extent. Fable 2 is indefinitely one of the must have games of 2008. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shugday
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 22, 2008 5:43 pm PT
Review:  I think that if my first several hours of playing Fable II are any indication I may lose my job. 
 The story is intriguing, even if I don't even have most of the details yet. Seriously, who cares 
 about the story!!! There is so much to do see and mess around with that I don't know if it will 
 ever be possible to "complete" this game. 
  
  Combat is very easy to be good at unlike other RPGs where the combat systems are sometimes cumbersome 
 and tedious. Plus, every RPG I play from this point forward needs a treasure-finding, bad guy attacking, 
 trick doing dog. He's like the cherry on top of a wicked awesomely frosted cake. 
  
  Like I said, I've only played for a few hours and I'm not overly critical of small things. This 
 game truly has something for everyone. I'm waiting to see if trying to put EVERYTHING into a game 
 will result in the person playing it either losing focus, losing interest because of having TOO 
 MANY choices, or getting frustrated by not being able to find, touch, and interact with ALL of 
 it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: orb_03_2006
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 22, 2008 4:08 pm PT
Review:  well, this game was excellent to say the least! I have to say, I love the voice acting! I'm not 
 sure why, but, the English accents lure me into the theme of the game. and now the story. it's 
 actually pretty good. I haven't played a lot of it, but it's quite immersive so far. it just keeps 
 pulling me in more and more! and the combat system is quite simple, but it's fun to come up with 
 some wacky combos to take out your enemies. the magic you use use is pretty cool. stopping time, 
 inferno, electricity, impale, etc. they're quite creative and they work in a very good way. the 
 gameplay is quite fun! free roaming is really fun! and the bread crumb trail to lead you to your 
 next objective in the main storyline is one of the best ideas in recent memory. it helps me when 
 I get lost. the only flaw in gameplay is when I'm running around. the character doesn't always 
 move the way I want them to. it's just a little weird. and the best feature about the game is it's 
 realism. the environments in the game look great and it's like a place like that could really exist. 
 and how they react to your actions is the best feature. and the jobs are a good feature that allow 
 you to make money. but overall, it's a great game that I recommend to anyone to try out. it's something 
 not to miss and it's great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vzobel
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 22, 2008 1:52 pm PT
Review:  Everyone has heard of "Fable", which was an award winning game released on 2004, by that time, 
 the game was REVOLUTIONARY, giving you the choice of pick a path GOOD or EVIL. Now 4 years later, 
 FABLE 2 has arrived with some awesome features:
  
  Gameplay: It gives you a fellow companion, the man best friend, a loyal Dog which may change his 
 look by the choose of your path. Also the combat is pretty simple, easy to learn in wich each button 
 has an action, melee, ranged or magic attack.
  
  Story: It has a pretty short story for being an RPG but the quality its what matters, very cool 
 stuff and a lot of surprises awaits you inside Albion.
  
  Graphics: Pretty cool, "Fable" wasn't a game with excellent Graphics, very descent but not awesome, 
 now with this new adventure improve graphics and better quality is found
  
  9.5/10 Awesome 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Guitarfreak15
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 22, 2008 12:37 pm PT
Review:  The sequel to the the best selling xbox role-playing game is finally out and not a moment to soon. 
 Without going into excruciating details, you start the story once again as a kid and quickly go 
 through childhood and into adult hood. The story line of the game is indeed VERY short. I was expecting 
 it to be short from other reviews but it's ridiculously short. As for the map being 10x bigger, 
 I honestly don't see that. I think the map is roughly the same size. The interface of the game 
 and controls are kind of annoying even after learning how to control everything. For instance, 
 the d-pad is your action for most interaction with everything in the world and changes (seemingly) 
 every few seconds thus making it hard to shortcut anything. Money is pretty easy to get for all 
 you have to do is nothing. You accumulate money even why your xbox is off depending on how much 
 property you own. In my opinion, I don't really like that. It makes the game EVEN shorter. But 
 on the bright side, the games graphics and combat are amazing. The physics engine is completely 
 redone thus allowing you to throw rag dolls around on their faces. I personally do feel Peter Molyneux 
 (senior programmer of this game and Lionhead studios) hyped up his game quite a bit again. I was 
 looking forward to a more interact able word. Basically, you can't really sit down and enjoy a 
 meal with your family. In fact there's not really anything you can do with your family at all other 
 then the limited expressions your guy has. The outfits in the game are also very limited. I've 
 been searching EVERY clothing store across the land for the past few hours and the same, few, outfits 
 show up every time. The sound quality is also superb. While fighting a rock troll, I was focusing 
 on how amazing the sound of the rocks were crashing only inches from you. Your little companion 
 is indeed a nice add on but gets boring quite quickly. All he basically does for you is find treasure. 
 The good/evil balance seems mildly weighed in favor for the good people. It seems quite difficult 
 to get people to think your funny yet REALLY easy to get people scared of you. Thus the prices 
 of everything go up making everything more expensive and making everyone hate you. It's super hard 
 to get on the side of good but really really easy to fall 'the dark side'. You CAN turn off the 
 dust trail and the other player orbs so it makes the scenery nice and not all cluttered with interface 
 and readouts. The maps of the game seem hard to understand to me. Therefore I still haven't found 
 a city and I've been searching everywhere.
  So with that said, I give you a summary of the good and bad:
  
  Good: Sound quality is amazing. 
 Graphics are pretty good. The open ended world is more open ended then the previous yet still has 
 some mild ridiculous limitations. The story is good. And it's addicting. Pub games are really fun.
 
  
  Bad: Story is short, interaction is much less then what you'd expect from an rpg, outfits/character 
 customization is somewhat limited. The maps are pretty confusing.
  
  All in all it seems this game was rushed and could have been A LOT more in depth. But it provides 
 hours of fun, unique game play none-the-less thus giving it a...
  
  GOOD 8.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TOuGHx
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 22, 2008 10:50 am PT
Review:  
  The sequel Fable 2 is build on the original fable concept and takes every good aspect in the original 
 Fable and multiplies the fun factor by 10.
  People that used glitches to get infinite money or exp cant really review the game because its 
 not what the developers had in mind when they made the game. Having to work for your money is something 
 really important in this game because you will feel very attached to your character and you will 
 not spend your money carelessly.
  Firstly the graphics are fantastic and just draws you in more into the beautiful world of Albion. The 
 combat system is plenty of fun and you will constantly change your play style which makes it really 
 fun to fight. The magic system is quite innovative and works quite well though it can be very easy 
 at times if you buy the right spells. Therefore it is very easy for anybody to pick up the controller 
 and learn to play. The story was predictable but it was a quite interesting and fun story anyways. 
 The main story is quite short but there are so many side quests that just makes you want to explore 
 the world. It is difficult to ignore all the things you can do while doing the main quest. Seeing 
 the world develop and your character change just makes it so much better and by the time you are 
 at the end of the main story you will realise that you actually created something unique and special. 
 The only real character that you develop a bond with is your dog. He is very well done. I was hoping 
 for a bit more backstory and characters that are thought through but it really isn't anything major 
 considering the sheer amount of fun you can have interacting with npcs in town. The coop isn't 
 anything special but it isn't bad either. It adds something nice on top of the singleplayer experience 
 but you probably wont get to play a lot of coop because playing alone is already really appealing.
 
  
  If you liked fable 1 then you will most probably like this one a lot more. The story is great, 
 the combat is fun and the environment draws you into the world of Albion.
  Overall, its a amazing game with minor glitches that will probably satisfy a lot of RPG fans and 
 others alike. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xelalex24
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 22, 2008 10:30 am PT
Review:  Like many of you, I was really looking forward to this game. While the game is worth being played, 
 I just wish it would been just a bit more of everythingso let me explain.
  
  Sound:
  I'll start with the easy part. The scores are really nice to listen to and well done, but the special 
 effects and sounds are nothing that will blow you away in the sense of immersing you in the game 
 like a game such as Dead Space would be able to within its genre. I'm sure that if you are like 
 me, as long as the sounds are good instead of awesome, it really doesn't take away from the game, 
 and that is where I stand with Fable 2.
  
  Graphics:
  It is a more cartoony feeling, and that is perfectly fine. It isn't really realistic graphics, 
 but they are well done enough that you will enjoy the eye candy. The change of time and weather 
 makes a difference as well in making the game more interesting in a graphics perspective. If you 
 are expecting graphics that push the envelope, this is not the game to do it for you.
  
  Gameplay:
  A yes, finally we talk about gameplay. Fable 2 offers some really great things in 
 terms of gameplay. The dog is a great companion and done well. I haven't felt that attachment like 
 PM suggested, but maybe I'm heartless. =) The fighting is a well balance for the RPG genre, and 
 at times I do feel like I'm in Qunetin Tertino movie with the way I move from enemy to enemy. The 
 problem here is that it is too easy. I don't want it really difficult, but I wish I could choose 
 my difficulty because I would probably put it up a nudge. The aspect of buying, working, and raising 
 a family is what I thing every RPG should offer today because for me the idea of an RPG is that 
 you can play it as long as you want. So those elements give you that immersion. The interactivity 
 with the NPC is really enjoyable, and your actions do really change the way the world turns. Thus, 
 that is great in this game.
  
  However, I did give this game a lower score than most, and this is where I feel they could, and 
 should have done more. The world itself is small, and part of RPG is the ability to explore and 
 discover. I don't get that feeling at all in this game. I have visited 11 regions out of the 12, 
 and most of them you are just following two or three paths, but you can't really go too far off 
 the path. The other regions are more open world, but they are so small that I feel like I have 
 already visited most of the world within the first 2 hours. I'm a stickler when it gets to exploration 
 and discovery in RPG game because they keep the game fresh for a long time. I feel like Zelda on 
 the 8bit NES made me feel more like an explorer than Fable 2.
  
  The plot itself is okay thus far, but I feel like the quests have been a bit on the boring side. 
 I'm also not feeling that freedom of finding all of this side quests. Maybe I haven't got too deep 
 in the game, but I expected to come across side quests more frequently. I do wish that I could 
 talk to the NPC instead of just using the expressions. If they had a mass effect system on top 
 of the expressions, then Wow, right?
  Conclusion
  
  Overall, I do think it is a game that people will enjoy, but because of the small world, lack of 
 frequency of side quest, constraints on the open world/free roaming (I would have been fine if 
 there were more than 12 regions) , really limited feeling of exploration leading you to discovery, 
 and so far a plot that is okay, I give it the score that I gave.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: gslrider
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 22, 2008 10:15 am PT
Review:  I bought the game yesterday, and played for hours, with exploring the environment, finding treasures, 
 interacting with villagers, doing quests, selling, buying, stealing, flirting... and that's just 
 the first 3 hours. I haven't even started my first main quest yet.
  
  I hate loving this game. With being one of the individuals who bought the LCE version without the 
 BC code, I'm kinda glad in a way that I didn't get it. Only because it doesn't open up more options 
 for me at this time. If I did, I would've ended up spending all night playing. lol
  
  Fable was very addictive, and Fable 2 is no different. Graphics are better, controls are more responsive 
 this time around, and having a side kick helps in finding all the extra treasures around Albion.
 
  
  From what I've played so far, it's a fun game that is can easily be picked up, and can only see 
 myself getting more hooked on it. Guys and girls alike will find this title enjoyable. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bufootballa
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 22, 2008 7:53 am PT
Review:  i've only several hours with this game so far and it completely blows any type of rpg/adventure 
 game out of the water that's compared to it!! there's just so much to do and you immediately know 
 how the world reacts to the things you do is simply amazing!! i'm at work right now and can't concentrate 
 b/c i must get back to albion ASAP!! oh and the interaction between players on your friends list 
 that appear as floating "orbs" that you can talk to/play co-op games is freaking UNBELIEVABLE and 
 you've got to see for yourself to fully grasp how revolutionary it is!! You will appreciate the 
 way that Lion Head implemented the dog as a companion in this game. You really LOVE that little 
 guy when you are just going about and he finds you treasure and items that you would've otherwise 
 walked right by. I've concentrated on getting money so far, but today will concentrate on leveling 
 up my strength, skill, and magic. It's always reassuring to know that you can always go to a town 
 and actually do work and buy property to keep income coming in around the clock, EVEN WHEN YOUR 
 360 IS OFF!! BUY THIS GAME!!! don't rent, BUY!!! IT'S THAT GOOD!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ronz42
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 22, 2008 7:32 am PT
Review:  I came to Fable 2 after having played the original Fable about three times over the years. Fable 
 2 has all the reasons why I played that original Fable more than once and Fable 2 has it in spades. 
 First, it is one of the best done games I have ever seen, the artwork and the battle system are 
 terrific. And, let's face it, who doesn't like to buy a Hooker from time to time and wear a condom? 
 Seriously, what other games (even GTA) gives you that one boys and girls. We've got swords. We've 
 got guns. We've got magic. You can get married and have kids. You can do that a lot. Or not. And 
 did I mention the dog? You get your very own dog. The magic about Fable, and this is true for the 
 first Fable as well, you feel "at home" when you're playing this game. The towns, the people, the 
 woods, it all seem friendly and satisfying, even the scary stuff, in an odd but very good way. 
 If you like RPGs, you're going to love this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ravadox
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 22, 2008 6:19 am PT
Review:  The game play is just amazing.. even when you start out as a kid, you can go around and beat up 
 on other kids and adults.. making yourself evil already.. muhahaha.. no but seriously. if GTA4 
 got a 10, this game deserves a 10.. the company was working o this game before xbox360 came out 
 and they made sure they got everything right. It was a long but worthwhile wait. A must pick up 
 for anyone who enjoys a great storyline and unique, yet simplistic game play design. You can literally 
 go to any house in the game and buy it.. the money isn't really that hard to make either, so you 
 can literally go around buying every building in a town and pretty much own the town. Another great 
 feature of the game is your pet dog. The more evil you become in the game, the more evil your dog 
 becomes, he can even get red eyes!... Its a great game and if you are reading this you must have 
 some interest in the game, so go out and give it a try, you will not be disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nikub1992
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 22, 2008 5:52 am PT
Review:  Fable 2 takes place in the lush country of Albion, where hobbes, bandits, and balverines roam free. 
 I have spent quite a bit of time playing this already, with a day off in school, and I cannot help 
 but feeling this games didn't get the rating it deserved by ign and game spot. This game is amazing, 
 the story line, whom of which my friends told me took about 16 hours to beat, seemed to me a little 
 short. I haven't finished the story yet and most likely will not for quite some time because the 
 game is so... so... AMAZING. Completing the story an feeling all warm in side is good and all that, 
 but that's a small portion of this immense game. You can have kids (also get married) , get a job, 
 and completely destroy the economy like I kinda did in mine... Anyway every choice you make will 
 affect your appearance, good choices, bad choices, eating healthy or not. It's all tied together 
 with the economy as well.
  
  Fable 2 is an amazing game, even with no armor, you can still be beastly by upgrading physique 
 and purchasing clothing that can make a dude seem kinda lady-like. There really to many good things 
 to say about Fable 2 and nothing all that bad except every one out of a hundred you get hit with 
 a bad camera angle for a second.
  
  Fable 2 is a must have game, so... pick it up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Predator702
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 22, 2008 5:24 am PT
Review:  I was only half exciting for this game (because I thirst for Gears of War 2) til about a week and 
 a half before it released. The week before the release I came to the realization that I finally 
 had a new game coming out that I could probably lose hours and hours on. To make my point short.. if 
 you don't have this game.. buy it already. For details i'll start by saying that there is SO much 
 stuff to do in this game. The first night after I got my copy from the midnight launch I played 
 for nearly 10 hours straight.. and I havent even made a dent in the story yet. I was busy exploring, 
 working for money, buying clothes and even just messing around in Co-Op with my friend. The Co-Op 
 now is brilliant... you have an option to see just your friends playing, or everyone else in the 
 world playing. You see them by seeing floating orbs everywhere with gamerpicture inside the orb. 
 What's even more brilliant is that should you be using your Xbox Headset, you can talk to people 
 through the orb. So in a sense the whole thing works like an MMORPG, you just dont see their character. 
 You can interact with the orb, send people gifts, and have them join your game in the form of a 
 henchman. Which at first I didnt like.. but then i realized.. if both characters were in the same 
 world.. then the game would be ridiculously easy having 2 super powerful heroes walking around. 
 But the whole orbs idea is pretty revolutionary to console gaming.. and it will be fun to see how 
 many games adopt this idea in the future. This game is just purely amazing and everyone must experience 
 this awesome awesome game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dioxide75
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 22, 2008 5:14 am PT
Review:  What it boils down to is a good majority of what I wanted to see in the first Game is now here!!!
 
  
  As the first one sucked me in the first hour this one has done the same and then some. Free roaming 
 and the addition of the dog is great its nice to have a companion that will help aleert you when 
 something is amis. I'm highly impressed with the AI in this sequal. Combat feels allot more fluid. 
 I havent gottent too far into the story line as there are tons of other things you can do to keep 
 you busy. The online Co-Op is a great addition as well. Jumping in and out of your friends games 
 is easy, although a little bummed I cant bring my actual char in to others games its still awesome 
 to carry your earnings and exp back with you. All in all I see myself glued to this game 10 x's 
 over the first one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TalSet_11
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 22, 2008 1:46 am PT
Review:  well, we're back to albion for another adventure. fable 2 is certainly an incredible game while 
 standing on its own two feet; but, riding the coat-tails of its predecessor, this game manages 
 to invoke a sense of nostalgia for the albion we once knew (i. e. five hundred years before fable 
 2 takes place, and the time period in which the first fable takes place) .
  
  while the game world is much larger and decidedly stunning and beautiful, it tends to be a little 
 confusing. thank god they added the "glowing trail" feature, which guides you to your objective. 
 the map on the pause screen is practically useless. since i'm not made of money and don't have 
 a fancy HD tv, the map is very difficult to use because of my television's low resolution (a problem 
 i've been having a lot with xbox 360 games. i know that they're designed for HD play, but i can 
 barely read anything onscreen in most games. i've learned to live with it) . the game world is gorgeous, 
 and the graphical presentation is masterful (water effects seem to get better and better. god the 
 water looks good in this game) and the lighting effects are superb. 
  
  the gameplay is, more or less, just like fable. a few tweaks to the combat system are greatly appreciated. 
 the ability to use guns and crossbows, melee weapons, and magic all on the fly makes combat fun 
 and wild. the camera also has a tendency to zoom in and capture the action in slow motion, kind 
 of like in assassin's creed. the quests are the typical RPG type: Go here, kill some stuff or bring 
 an item somewhere, rinse, repeat. a few of the quests keep it varied and fun, such as the mission 
 where you have to get revenge on a young lady for a ghost. the quests are interesting, but some 
 of them are a bit vague, and maneuvering around albion at first can seem a bit daunting, due to 
 its size. gone is the old fable's "stick to the path" mentality. in this game, you can hop right 
 over those walls on the side of the road, and set out into the woods. the enemy AI is stupid, but 
 forgivable, and the various amounts of enemies will keep you entertained.
  
  the musical score is fantastic, and all the sound effects are pretty much what you'd expect. the 
 musical score is pretty much the same as the old one. melodic plucking strings that keep the primary 
 mood, and when the mood changes, so too does the canter of the tune.
  
  a few mechanics have been tweaked. first off, just about every single building is for sale. you 
 don't have to kill the occupants to purchase a building now. you can also buy shops and set the 
 prices higher or lower (which affects your purity or corruption level) . i'll say this right off 
 the bat: being evil is WAY too easy in this game. it's MUCH more difficult to walk the straight 
 and narrow in this game. that being said, it's also too easy to gain weight in this game as well. 
 remember in fable how it was funny to go out and get drunk and vomit your guts out? i did that 
 once. only once. and my character is a fatass. i've eaten celery and done everything i can, but 
 he's still fat. oh well.
  
  the game does have a few bugs. i ran into a pretty annoying one. there's one mission where you 
 have to kill a troll and then dig under where it was standing in order to retrieve an item. since 
 your dog is the only way to locate buried treasure, you have to wait for him to find it. after 
 he found it, i started digging, but a monster came up and attacked me right before the little digging 
 cutscene was over. this must have tripped some kind of switch when i started digging, because after 
 i killed the monster, my dog didn't know where the item was, and thus, i could not dig it up. since 
 this was a main quest, i couldn't just forget about it and go on with the game. i had to reload, 
 and that solved it, but it was annoying. a few glitches like that are forgivable, though.
  
  the addition of condoms and STD's is a funny one. have unprotected sex to raise your evil ranking, 
 but you may get albion aids (i don't know what kinds of STD's there are in fable 2. i may get one 
 just for the hell of it. but chlamydia doesn't read well on a tyrant's resume. *shiver*)
  
  anyways, if you want my final verdict, Fable 2 is a savage and beautiful game that will delight 
 ANY rpg fan. a fantastic voyage into a somewhat familiar world with a whole new feel. you'll see 
 some familiar places and a whole lot of new ones, and they all look absolutely gorgeous. the game 
 as a whole is probably the best i've played in a while. it sucks you in and delivers in almost 
 every way possible, although it doesn't add very much to the name that it had already made for 
 itself. while not a clone of the original, it does borrow heavily from the formula outlined in 
 the original. i give it a 9. fantastic game that is worth a look by just about anybody with a pulse.
 
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dragorro
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 21, 2008 11:09 pm PT
Review:  Just like Peter told us 2 years ago the love im getting from this game is just so amazing. I love 
 my animal and after 4 hours of playing I alrdy look like teenage Van hellsing with a blunderbuss 
 its awesome. 
  
  Graphics
  
  The graphic look very will polished looks like fable 1 but with more emotion and better lighting 
 way more polygon count. people look more filled and grasp you.
  
  Gameplay
  
  Id say its very simple design that gets more complex as you go along. its that growing feeling 
 of learning a game that I love. the fighting it exciting and heart pumping music gets you blasting 
 you gun for no reason.
  a few bug here or there but nothing huge you probly wont even notice them.
  
  Conclusion
 
  
  Im goin to go play now ill probly leave this review incomplete but hey one thing Ive enjoyed every 
 single minute and thats no lie. Go get fable 2 what are you waiting FOR!!!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: NintendoWarrior
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 21, 2008 8:48 pm PT
Review:  Ok, first of all what was gs and ign thinking?
  
  im definitely with xplay on this one, this game definitely feels magical. 
  
  About the online, 
 you can't bring your own character to your friend's world, but everything else works so smoothly, 
 it more than makes up for i t. Entering your friend's world is a very quick and easy process, and 
 your friend can enters your just as easily. 
  You can give friends that you see roaming in the world gifts. It just works so good, you need to 
 play it (and have some friends) to understand how awesome it is
  
  the story so far is definitely good, not exactly a masterpiece, but it gets the job done and then 
 some
  Load times? definitely not that long, less than oblivion's, and it pretty much is free roam, there 
 are many side quests and they're all fun
  
  The only apparent flaw so far is the first part when you're a little child, it starts out really 
 slow, but it picks up when you first visit bowerstone asan adult
  
  You definitely feel like the character represents you, the expressions work great and means you 
 can create the public image of your choice, and it doesn't feel artificial
  
  I own GTA 4, and it is nowhere near as good as this game, if GTA 4 is a 10, this is a 15 at least 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jaimebuchner
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 21, 2008 7:52 pm PT
Review:  Fable 2 is one of those games that you sit down and start playing and the next thing you know 3 
 hours have gone by. I hate how "game experts" nit pick about stupid little things when the review 
 games such as "making money is too easy". The point of playing a video game is to have fun and 
 believe me fable 2 delivers. It is refreshing to play a game like fable after all the generic FPS 
 that have been coming out. Don't get me wrong I love games like Halo and Gears but it is a nice 
 change of pace. Anyways one thing that sticks out to me is the combat system which is really simple 
 yet somehow a lot of fun and really rewarding. The characters are great and there is a lot of funny 
 stuff in this game. So great characters, story, gameplay, and it's a ton of fun. What else could 
 you ask for??? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lions24
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 21, 2008 7:42 pm PT
Review:  Overall this game is amazing, graphics are good kinda cartoonish but still great the lighting is 
 absolutely perfect. Very detailed clothing styles.
  
  Game play is easy no different from the first one, but button mashing can be kinda confusing at 
 first only because, well i was doing the buttons for fable 1, but not long youll get it. The freedom 
 you have on the map is amazing you can basically go anywhere, Though i would like it if you could 
 walk all the way to the places instead of say going to bowerstone and you have to load it up instead 
 of walking there. it might take awhile but i think it would be a okay upgrade.
  
  Sound is okay there are some down points, but then again there are great points to the sounds. 
 not much to say about that. Except the music is the same as the first one.
  
  Fable 2 is the best RPG game of the year or atleast for the running of it. A MUST PLAY AND GET!!!
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: snax13
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 21, 2008 9:47 pm PT
Review:  //Graphics
  Fable II's graphics have been updated alittle bit from the first one. There is more detail to buildings 
 and windows and the people have old-style clothing with much detail. There are some graphical issues 
 though. For example, when you go to open a chest and your dog is near by, his body fades out by 
 is fur does not. The towns are grown larger from the last game. It feels like a real town with 
 everything crammed together and not just placed randomly.
  
  //Sound
  The sound/music from the original Fable was amazing and it's the same in Fable II. The background 
 music is moving and fits well with the situation your in. The sounds for birds and bugs in the 
 forest are very realistic. The voice overs could have been better and the distance from you and 
 the person's voice is off to.
  
  //Gameplay
  The gameplay in Fable II is... well, easy. There is really not much to it. Button mashing fun. Once 
 you learn the buttons, you could probably fight blind-folded.
  
  //Overall
  Fable II is an amazing sequel in it's already great storyline. It was worth the wait, and the money. 
 If you like RPGs, this is a must have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ethanhart619
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 21, 2008 5:25 pm PT
Review:  IT IS AWESOME PLAY PLAY NOW DO IT DO IT IM TELLING YOU YOU'LL LVE IT! IT IS AWESOME PLAY 
 PLAY NOW DO IT DO IT IM TELLING YOU YOU'LL LVE IT! IT IS AWESOME PLAY PLAY NOW DO IT DO IT 
 IM TELLING YOU YOU'LL LVE IT! IT IS AWESOME PLAY PLAY NOW DO IT DO IT IM TELLING YOU YOU'LL 
 LVE IT! IT IS AWESOME PLAY PLAY NOW DO IT DO IT IM TELLING YOU YOU'LL LVE IT! IT IS 
 AWESOME PLAY PLAY NOW DO IT DO IT IM TELLING YOU YOU'LL LVIT IS AWESOME PLAY PLAY NOW DO 
 IT DO IT IM TELLING YOU YOU'IT IS AWESOME PLAY PLAY NOW DO IT DO IT IM TELLING YOU YOU'LL LVE 
 IT! LL LVE IT! E IT! IT IS AWESOME PLAY PLAY NOW DO IT DO IT IM TELLING YOU YOU'LL LVE 
 IT! IT IS AWESOME PLAY PLAY NOW DO IT DO IT IM TELLING YOU YOU'LL LVE IT! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skippyboy
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 21, 2008 5:11 pm PT
Review:  Fable 2 is everything the first one was and more, its worth every cent the world is highly immersive 
 and addictive, everything about is great a must play even for those not fond of the genre. i cant 
 belive that gamespot would jip LH with an 8.5 wtf anyways the game play is amzing simple but not 
 lacking theres SOOOO MUCH you can do, you can spend days playing it especially with a buddy. by 
 far the best game ive played in a lonnnng time. so gamespot says the story is lacking, hahaha.... 
 right... its only short if you stick to it like a acheivment whore, go out explore and it will 
 be more fun then i can even explain. so go out and get a copy. 
 
  (sorry had to reach 800) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SalarianChemist
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 21, 2008 5:10 pm PT
Review:  Fable was one of my favorite RPG games of all time. There is no doubt that Fable 2 takes all of 
 the best elements of Fable, improves those elements, and than adds a multitude of new features. 
 The graphics have been improved and look absolutely incredible in high-definition. The 5.1 digital 
 sound makes it so you actually "experience" the action. Being able to "FEEEEL" the controller "RUMBLE" 
 during action-packed sequences is also awesome. Add in the cool achievements and you have a great 
 game that feels absolutely perfect.
  
  Fable 2 is definitely the Best RPG game of this type that I have ever played. Mass Effect is my 
 other favorite RPG, but Mass Effect is more of an Action-RPG, while Fable 2 is more of an Open-RPG 
 where you get to determine the life of your character.
  
  Fable 2 has a difficulty level that is just right. The game has plenty of replay value, and you 
 could spend forever playing it if you wanted to. The Online Co-Op is a feature I haven't had a 
 chance to play yet, but it is going to be absolutely amazingly fun when I download that feature!
 
  
  If you like RPG games of any kind, you will absolutely love Fable 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HarDCoreZGamerZ
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 21, 2008 2:19 pm PT
Review:  wow an 8.5 LMAO i should stop going to gamespot to look up games id give this game around a 9.2 
 at least a 9.3 i mean the Graphics are rich and everything the game play is smooth lots od differnt 
 ranges of weps to choose from like Swords and bows now GUNS so it pretty cool all types of armors 
 u can be good or evil skinny or fat white or tan etc. BASICALLY im just trying to say that this 
 will be a very highly addicting game to play and when LEFT4DEAD comes out thats gonan be a 10 LOL 
 i can tell its already on the TOP E3 list and E3 is a good gaming magazine but hopes that this 
 paragraph helps you about Fable and that it chagnes your mind about getting IT!!! all round the 
 games got a good score on almost every site and to ppl who hate FABLE SERIES F*** YOU! ok done 
 with that and man i gotta tell you FABLE2 will be good trust me its gonan be owrht you money to 
 get it and get LEFT4DEAD too youll WANT IT FOR SURE its on E3 too so GET IT!! and btw im only saying 
 this so that it goes past 800 chras of words lol!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: johnvb
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 21, 2008 1:13 pm PT
Review:  "Fable 2" is a fantastic 'sequel'. This means that if you did not like Fable, then there is a pretty 
 good chance you wont like this game either. However, if you did like the first one, then you most 
 likely will love this one even more. If you have never played the first Fable (or a game like "Fable") 
 then keep in mind that games like this only get better the more you play them. For example: the 
 combat system might seem a little bit week at first, but it will greatly improve as you build up 
 your attributes. So the bottom line is to be patient if you're not use to building up your attributes 
 (RPG style) . For the most part "Fable 2" basically maintains the same style of game-play, with 
 some new things thrown into the batch of course. The best additions are definitely co-op mode and 
 the inclusion of a pet dog (which is masterfully crafted with personality) .
  
  On a side note:
  This definitely does not always happen when I read a review, but in this particular 
 case I would like to state that I completely agree with Tom Mc Shea's official Gamespot review. 
 I really can't address the positive and negative qualities of this game any better that what he 
 has stated, and I commend him for such a well written article. I highly recommend anyone curious 
 about "Fable 2" read what he has written. My only minor quibble is that this game deserves at least 
 a 9.0 (Editors Choice) score. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wassa786
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 21, 2008 9:29 am PT
Review:  Fun filled, free roaming adventure, which encapsulates Fable I and adds more variety to the fun! 
 Easy to play for anyone new to the genre! The fighting mechanics are very basic to say the least, 
 where you can just mash X and kill everyone in sight. The emotions' system is funny, but lacks 
 in that you cannot speak to the characters. Interaction is very limited with the town-folk. 
  
  What I did enjoy is the variety of jobs featured in the game, while some may be redundant, 
 they are fun to say the least, and who doesn't have fun in the casino?
  
  Graphically, it is an improvement over the first Fable, and there are a few minor glitches here 
 and there, but none that take away from the gameplay, which I must add is fantastic. It doesn't 
 bore you too much.
  
  Where this game maybe lacking is in the replay value. I think most players may only replay this 
 game once or twice. The main advantage of this game is the ability to sell your skills.
  
  Overall, I think it is a captivating game that will engulf anyone new to the genre! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: anhuarx
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 21, 2008 8:55 am PT
Review:  its worth every penny and every hour waiting for this game to come out watching the videos wishing 
 you alredy had it in your hands... its simple this game its the definition of interaction and consequence 
 in gameplay often you play around in a game just killing everybody or destroying s*** around you 
 to the point of boredom but not in this game every action has a consequence even if it is as little 
 as not helping out an old man, as time goes by in the game you'll start to notice how people in 
 the game change how the world changes and the coolest of all how your character morphs into something 
 else to reflect your actions and how people react to your presence the only let down its the monetary 
 system gold isnt really important on the game and earning its very easy kinda wish the story was 
 longer but as short as it is its a ery good one, an impressive game by my standars of RPGs nice 
 work lion head! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cjowens88
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 21, 2008 8:11 am PT
Review:  I played the first fable when it came out for x box and let me just say that i thought it was one 
 of th greatest games i had ever played!!!! then when i found out that there was going to be a sequel 
 i almost cried i was so happy!!! Now it is finaly here and it is amazing!!! worth a 10 in my book 
 any day!!!! It is just so much fun it play... and its a game that you can beat and play again and 
 it be different!! that is awesome to me be because i love RPG'S and have played All the Zeldas, 
 Final Fantasy X, Oblivion, and all the GTA's.... and i have beaten them over and over again... 
 and for me to be able to pick up Fable 2 and play it again and it be diferent in some way every 
 time is amazing!!! And thanks to Peter Molyneux and everyone at Lionhead Studios we now have one 
 of the greatest RPG's out there!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FFbest
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 21, 2008 7:24 am PT
Review:  To start off, this game is amazing. Lets just get the fact that you have probably read a hundred 
 times already, this game is in fact better than the pervious title. It is, in fact, better than 
 a lot of games in the age of the Nintendo Wii. (Not a Wii hater, but saying they have had some 
 crap lately.)
  The graphics are very smooth and impressive, although in a whole the look is more so childish and 
 cartoonish, but not in a bad way. The enviroment is amazing, the textures are well layed, the voice 
 acting is incredible, and the monsters and quests are some of the best in gaming.
  The side quests in most games make you feel like a pick-up and dilver type of  
 In Fable II you are rewarded with each mission and it feels important to your character's life.
 
  The dog is an amazing add-on, but not as good or revelutional as I was hoping.
  
  So all in all, this is a game that you should expierence for yourself. It is an odd game, being 
 a mix between Team Fortress 2 and the Brother's Grim, but it is a great addition to anyone's collection 
 of games.
  Pick this one up if you get the chance and enjoy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SikStix
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 21, 2008 7:01 am PT
Review:  Other than some character movement issues, the game is pretty fluid. I wasn't sure how the addition 
 of a dog was going to work but it's surprisingly innovative and fresh! Par usual, the environment 
 and ambience are very appealing. I haven't experienced the coop aspect of the game but if I can 
 figure out how to get the free 1st day download, I will partially get over the possibility of having 
 to pay for a feature that was a huge selling point. I have seen many of my "buddies" running around, 
 in the form of an orb/wisp and it's great to be able to communicate with them at the press of a 
 button. It's about time that an RPG adds this feature on a console. And for those achievement sponges, 
 this will satisfy your pallet because I have only played for a few hours so far and racked up almost 
 150 points. Overall, I am very pleased. It's a very nice start to a busy gaming season. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JimmieBlood4
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 21, 2008 6:16 am PT
Review:  This game is a lot of fun and even though it wasn't skipped with all the flash that was promised. 
 It is still worth it as we get to dive back into the world of Fable. I love the official review 
 of the citizens of Albion being one-dimensional. I guess they would also complain if the developers 
 had created a backstory for every ciziten by calling it overkill. As for the gameplay, once you 
 have it down the game takes a whole new level and gives the gamer quite the experience. The ability 
 to decide how to treat your dog is a new twist, but it is always the best to treat your dog well 
 as it will help you out in the game. It was a lot of fun to be able to teach the dog new tricks 
 and that is almost a complete side quest to find new tricks for your dog. 
  The story might be as some called predictable, but come on. Honestly do you think it was going 
 to be that much different for the first Fable game. Yes, we might be able to predict the story 
 of the game, but that doesn't take away from the fun of playing the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Crypto145
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 12, 2008 9:49 am PT
Review:  Wow, oh my god, I mean I imagined it was gonna be good, but this is a fantastic game! There is 
 so much stuff to do, I had to turn it off to see if I was still a person. And its also a bit harder 
 than I thought it was going to be. I thought that being able to not die was going to make it easier, 
 well, I was right. But this game isn't supposed to be a hard game. Its supposed to send a message, 
 and be just.... fun. I think most gamers nowadays rate a game mostly or at least somewhat on its 
 difficulty, and yes, I want a game to challenge you too, but Fable 2 challenges in a way, not with 
 your sword, but with your mind. You have to make choices in the game that, even though not totally 
 effecting the ending of the game, it changes everything around you. And I think that is my favorite 
 part of the game. Here's an example, I just got back from that first bandit quest and the people 
 started coming into bower lake, and people were congradulating me calling me the hero of bower 
 lake and stuff, and than I leave Bower Lake and go massacre a town, and come back and they all 
 dispise me, I mean, Isn't that just the coolest thing!! NO other game has anything like that. Plus 
 I also love how the dog is, I mean if I was the dog I would have bit me in the ass and left my 
 evil ass behind, but instead his fur is becoming darker, he's becoming more aggresive, and he's 
 almost stronger than me, mostly cuz I'm a magic guy myself, But ya I mean I've only said a few 
 things and I bet that If someone reads this their mouth is going to be watering right about now, 
 and first they are going to pee themselves then they are going to get fable 2 because you must 
 get it. although yes there may be alot of faults in the game keeping it from that 10/10 review 
 score like the co-op, glitches, and the bad story ending but other than that (hehe) its a great 
 game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: febtiae
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 21, 2008 3:47 am PT
Review:  The first fable was amazing though most people didnt notice this sequel is even better then the 
 original and so I say its one of the best games ever and that the review score was way way to low 
 it should have atleast been in the low 9's. The eviroment is solid the choices you get to make 
 are amazing and all the different chrarcters you could end up with is godly. The Story was flat 
 for a reason the character makes the story and the evil side is easy to become becuase evil in 
 real life is often easy then good but is less rewarding and so the game is following real life 
 situations as it should. The music is great and though the character interaction is lacking it 
 shows that the main character is more important in the world of albion and that he has no time 
 to be social unless he wants to be. The game has great graphics and I did not see the childish 
 cartoon look at all. All in all I believe the score should have been way higher I mean they gave 
 a perfect 10 to GTA 4 probably one of the least fun of the GTA series in my opinion. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
