-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: FaceBreaker
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/xbox360/sports/facebreaker/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Excellent create-a-boxer options.
 Stylized visuals.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Bad, button-mashing gameplay.
 Cheap AI.
 Many frustrating ways to lose.
 Very few game modes.
 Feels more like a bad fighting game than a boxing game.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Sep  9, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 3.5
Critic Score: 5.3, 48 Review (s)
User Score: 4.4, 244 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: EA Sports
Developer: EA Canada
Genre: Boxing
Date: Sep 5, 2008
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
FaceBreaker's impressive boxer-customization options are overshadowed by terrible gameplay. 

 
  There have been many great arcade-style boxing games over the years. FaceBreaker is not one of 
 them. It looks pretty good, and the deep customization options mean you'll never want for new brawlers, 
 but those two things are about all this game has going for it. The fighting mechanics are awful, 
 the AI is cheap, it's light on game modes, and most of all, it's not any fun.  

  Creating a boxer using your own photos is easily the game's best feature. You can use an PlayStation 
 Eye, Xbox Vision camera, or download pictures that you've uploaded to easportsworld. com. It takes 
 10 minutes or so to render your face, but the results are worth the wait. Male characters look 
 fantastic and have a number of body types from which to choose. However, females aren't so lucky. 
 There are only a few female body types and long-hair options available, so women typically end 
 up looking pretty rough. If you're willing to put in the time, you can make some truly impressive 
 boxers and share your handiwork online, too. You can also download others' creations -- an excellent 
 feature because some people out there have a knack for making cool brawlers -- most of which are 
 celebrities such as George Bush, Borat, The Joker, Macaulay Culkin, Austin Powers, and Jackie Chan. 

           Boxer-creation options are literally endless thanks to the ability to import photos.  
     

  Unfortunately, there's nothing fun to do with your boxer. The game's particularly light on play 
 modes. The only offline single-player mode, other than a Quick Fight, is Brawl for It All mode, 
 which couldn't be shallower. This is essentially a tournament where you work your way up the ladder, 
 with the goal of winning all five belts. It only takes a long time because the AI is so cheap (more 
 on that later) . Couch Royale mode might sound intriguing, but it's nothing more than a round-robin 
 tournament in which you try to collect the heads (a trophy head; you don't actually rip them off) 
 of your foes. Online play does support leagues, but thanks to the extraordinary advantage gained 
 by the person with the best connection (they seem almost impossible to stop) , there's little reason 
 to go online in the first place, much less join a league. A lack of game modes really doesn't matter 
 much, though, because FaceBreaker's awful gameplay means you won't want to play long enough to 
 finish Brawl for It All, much less want for more modes.  

  FaceBreaker is more of an ultrafast, very shallow button-mashing fighting game than it is a boxing 
 game. Bouts are three rounds, and you need to knock your opponent down three times to win. If three 
 rounds pass but nobody has been knocked down, the fight goes to sudden death overtime and the first 
 person to be knocked down loses. Overtime is a quick way to end a fight, but it's frustrating to 
 have dominated your opponent in the first three rounds only to go into overtime with basically 
 a level playing field. Controls are simple but often unresponsive. You can unleash high or low 
 punches, a haymaker, and a throw -- that's it. Defensively, you can block and dodge, but you rarely 
 need to do so. Rather, it's easier and more effective to parry punches. Just because a game has 
 simple controls doesn't mean its gameplay can't have some depth, but you'd never know it from playing 
 FaceBreaker. Each of the game's over-the-top fighters has his own style, but this is mostly irrelevant. 
 All you do is mash the buttons to throw punches as fast as possible and mix in the occasional parry. 
 Matches are typically determined by who hits buttons the fastest and who is able to stay out of 
 the corner because once you're backed up against the ropes, you're hosed -- unless you're the CPU. 

  FaceBreaker has some of the most infuriating AI you'll ever experience, and the game is far more 
 frustrating than it is fun. When the CPU decides it's time for you to lose, it'll back you into 
 a corner and absolutely pummel you. No combination of dodging, blocking, or parrying can stop the 
 onslaught -- all you can do is mash buttons and hope for the best. Even when you've managed to grasp 
 the best cheap tactics to beat opponents (cheap moves are the only way to consistently beat many 
 fighters) , they can still crush you in seconds with overpowered facebreaker moves. These are earned 
 by connecting punches in a series and filling a meter. When it's full, you can use a haymaker to 
 send your foe right to the canvas. Once your opponent is down, the game tells you to break his 
 or her face. Then, with the press of a button, you unleash a wild finishing move and essentially 
 break the person's face. Not only does this come off as excessively brutal, but it's an aggravating 
 way to lose a fight -- especially when you're getting obliterated in less than 20 seconds by a monkey 
 in consecutive bouts. The game warns you that you're going to lose a lot, but it's the cheap way 
 in which you lose as well as the seemingly random trial and error nature of the gameplay that often 
 make Facebreaker maddeningly difficult until you figure out some cheap tactic or exploit to use 
 against the CPU.  

           The only thing this game will break is your spirit.      

  The cartoonlike presentation of FaceBreaker is one of its better features. The large, mostly bizarre 
 fighters are nicely animated. Although some pugilists share the same body types and/or fighting 
 styles, there's quite a bit of variety to be found. Generally, they feel different from one another, 
 even if a lot of the character designs are a bit unoriginal. Punches cause real-time damage when 
 they land, but the game moves so quickly that you're not likely to have much time to admire the 
 swollen cheeks and bruises you've caused until the fight is over, which is when a close-up of the 
 vanquished brawler is shown. Audio doesn't fare as well as the visuals. Voice acting is nothing 
 special, and outside the sound of punches landing, there's nothing to hear during a fight.  

  FaceBreaker fails to be engaging in any way. The boxer-customization options are nice, but there's 
 little point in taking the time to create a fighter when the game is so bad that you won't actually 
 want to use him or her in the ring. Don't let the commercials with Snoop Dogg talk you into going 
 toe-to-toe with this stiff.  

      
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (17 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Dim2199
Rating: 4
Date: Jan 18, 2009 12:21 pm PT
Review:  Out of the three boxing games out on the Xbox 350 (as of now: Prizefighter, FNR3, Facebreaker) , 
 Facebreaker is your worst bet. The game feels dated, with very few game modes, a very tough/frustrating 
 career, and bland graphics.
  
  Facebreaker is so hard that I couldn't make it past the second guy in career mode on easy! It is 
 simply too fast, making it very hard to follow the action because the game does not give you enough 
 response time to digest what is happening on screen. Add in the cheap shots that nearly kill you 
 or highly damage you and you have a good understanding of what to expect from Facebreaker.
  
  The only redeeming feature of this game is the character creation system. You can use a camera 
 to turn yourself into a character, but if you don't have a Vision Camera, you can still create 
 pretty much any celebrity you want. EA added a nice touch where you can download other people created 
 characters. This feature is very fun and interesting, its just too bad the gameplay cannot follow 
 suit.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: NeoBlueDragonEX
Rating: 2.5
Date: Jan 17, 2009 7:25 pm PT
Review:  I spent $30 on this game. That's actually pretty cheap for a 360 game. After I played FaceBreaker, 
 I went back to Game Stop and exchanged it for Battlefield: Bad Company. They both cost the same, 
 but one is fantastic, and the other should be destroyed with holy water. FaceBreaker is a mess 
 of a fighting game that no one should make the mistake of buying. I heard that this game was terrible, 
 but a friend of mine recommended it to me. I trusted my friend, but the day after I played this 
 game, I punched him in the gut. He wanted me to waste $30 because I owed him that much from a bet. 
 Anyways, I've gotten way off topic, so back to the bad game. Facebreaker is supposedly a boxing 
 game that lets you take control of muscular boxers that beat the crap out of each other. In the 
 game, they beat the crap out of each other, but you have to suffer too. The CPU is so hard to beat 
 that my 360 controller's buttons got stuck because of all the button-mashing. I had to take apart 
 the controller and lube the buttons (Which made my controller smell like motor oil for 2 weeks) . 
 Punching your opponents over and over can get tiresome, and the characters roaring in pain doesn't 
 help the experience. The boxers themselves are ugly enough, but guess what? You make them even 
 uglier by beating them up. The create-a-boxer mode is easily the best part of this game. So far 
 I've created something that looks like me on steroids. That provided about 10 minutes of entertainment 
 for me. The graphics are also cartoony and sometimes amusing. Other than that, FaceBreaker's the 
 worst fighter I've ever played. Big Rigs is much worse, but who doesn't know that? I thank my lunatic 
 of a friend for showing me what a truly bad game is. By playing this game, I've lost my respect 
 for video games that include boxing and buff men who constantly get the crap beaten out of them. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GamerNY1
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 17, 2009 1:06 pm PT
Review:  This is a boxing game with alot of flashy characters and outrageous moves and beat downs. 
  I recomend it for the low, low price of $10, which is a good deal in my book. 
  This game has 
 an assortment of characters to choose from from the outset then as you play and progress along 
 you unlock others and also are able to create one from scratch. You can upload a picture or take 
 one directly through your Xbox Live camera.
  The physics in the game are good, the art is well done for the style.
  I wasn'rt so impressed 
 withthe soundtrack althought there were some surpisese in there like Wolfmothers, "Woman". 
  I would get this game becuase it was a bargain at $10, new. It is is entertaining to upload any 
 photo you might have maybe someone you dislike and then beat them to a pulp using your likeness. 
 Fun!!!!
  I'd check it out if I were you... It's not bad. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShAbInAtOr
Rating: 4
Date: Jan 1, 2009 4:31 pm PT
Review:  This game is not the game for you, if you played and liked the game fight night round 3. It's not 
 the best boxing game out there and it's also not very competitive in the graphic category. It also 
 doesn't take a whole lot of time to finish the game either. If you like a game where the only thing 
 you are doing is pounding the crap out of your opponent, then this is the game for you. Graphic 
 wise like i said it's not very competitive at all, i guess they wanted the game to have cartoon-ish 
 graphics. Then also game-play wise its hard but not too hard if you get the fighting style of the 
 game. In the end it might be cartoon-ish and it might have average gameplay, it's still the game 
 to buy if you want to have fun with the whole family or just your friends, that's why i couldn't 
 give this game a rating under 4.0. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GrandTheftC12
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 9, 2008 12:44 am PT
Review:  This game is a lot better than i thought it would be.
  Considering all the negative reviews i took a chance and got it.
  Its kinda fun when you and 
 your friends fight.
  Even though the computer can really be a challenge even on easy mode.
  It still packs a punch im a fan of fighting games and i like this one.
  I agree it could have 
 been a little better but i still give it a 8.5.
  Because it managed to entertain me and my friends.
  So if you dont like simple fighters then 
 i suggest you dont get this, or if your expecting the next fight night.
  This would not be your game if your expecting that.
  This is just a over the edge boxer/fighter 
 game, and it never really ever takes itself seriously.
  So with that said if you like over the top fighters then this is your game.
  But if your a graphic 
 maniac and only base on realism then this is not your game.
  But if you want something where you can kick your friends butt then this is your game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alvin201
Rating: 3
Date: Oct 25, 2008 10:22 am PT
Review:  Let me start of by saying this...... DONT BUY THIS GAME. Ok this arcade boxing game is a button 
 smashing game. It has horrible mechanics and it is totally broken. The computer is impossible to 
 beat even at the easiest difficutly. The one thing that I found cool about this game is that you 
 can download fighters off live like for example I got the joker which was pretty cool. The graphics 
 arn't that great. There is also no strategy in the game so it is all button smashing. You might 
 have a little fun if you play with a friend or someone over xbox live but you will probaly get 
 bored after playing a few macthes cause all you do is button smash. It gets me mad how EA actually 
 let this game go on shelves. This game is not even worth a rent in my opinion. I got it from gamefly 
 yesterday and putting it back in the mailbox today. I feel bad for anybody who actually bought 
 this game. Just do me and yourself a favor and don't but this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ruff_edgz
Rating: 3
Date: Oct 6, 2008 8:51 pm PT
Review:  When it comes to boxing games, Mike Tyson's Punch-Out comes to mind as being a great all around 
 boxing experience. It was challenging but not so much that you couldn't get to Mike and try to 
 beat him. Lets take that concept (boxing) and mix it with a fighting type game and lets call it 
 "Facebreakers". 
  
  The idea sounded nice at the time and the character customization is a wonderful part of the game 
 but lets face it, that was the best thing about the game. The gameplay isn't realistic, the controls 
 are a bit out there and I couldn't wait to drop this back off at my local rental store.
  
  The gameplay seems simple at first glance but that can be deceiving. The idea is to knockdown your 
 opponent 3 times before the three rounds are up. After that, there is a "sudden death" which will 
 determine the winner. When just playing on the easiest level on the game, my opponents started 
 to pound me into submission with win after win after win. The concept of starting slow and moving 
 your way up to harder opponents doesn't seem to strike EA Canada's fancy. The idea of trying it 
 on the hardest level didn't pass my mind as I was already frustrated with easy.
  
  The controls also look easy but with the fast pace action of the game, those also can be confusing. 
 Pressing the X button will do a high punch, A button will do a low punch, B will throw and Y will 
 do a harder punch which is also linked to your "facebreaker" move (s) . When playing the game, doing 
 any of these simple move can place hits on your opponent but do some of the more harder hits can 
 help you win the game. Remembering and combining those hits while during game play won't just hurt 
 your opponent but also your fingers as well. This game isn't a button mashing game and does take 
 skill so if you a quick with your fingers and want a challenge, I think this game is for you.
 
  
  The graphics aren't bad for a cartoon-like atmosphere but aren't wonderful enough to cheer about. 
 The customization of your player is amazing and have some great ways to create fictional and non-fictional 
 characters to box with like "The Joker" or "Borat". The other static characters in the game have 
 their ups and downs depending on which one you are looking at. Characters like "Ice" and "Sparrow" 
 are cool characters with a hint of Samuel L. Jackson and Riku (from Kingdom Hearts) respectively. 
 Then you have other characters like "Steve" and "Romeo" who make you want to NOT be a gamer anymore. 
 
  
  The sound track in the game is also a bright spot for this game but still doesn't cover up the 
 mistakes and bad gameplay found through out this game. Tone Loc, From First To Last and Dropkick 
 Murphys help you get pumped up to get your butt kicked by the computer opponents.
  
  The final word on this game would be a NOT WORTH IT in my book. Not even if it comes out for the 
 bargain bin at your gaming store would I advise anyone to buy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheBlaklyon
Rating: 3
Date: Oct 3, 2008 2:39 pm PT
Review:  A very good title for a game that make me wanna break someones face (or, anything for that matter) after 
 you have spent a good 30 minutes or so playing it. What the hell went wrong in the beta testing 
 for this game? did they just take the day off? fall asleep at there desk? or just didn't give a 
 flying @#$% if this game make you wanna rip out your pubic hairs with a pair of rusty tweezers? 
 If you we're hoping to relive the glory days of Mike tysons punch out, Super Punch Out Or, Ready 
 To Rumble Boxing, I'm so sorry to disappoint you... because, you have wasted your time and money. 
 Wow.... this game makes me wonder why some people are able to hold jobs in the video game industry 
 at all! I like games that give me a healthy challenge in the gameplay area, but if I can't even 
 hope to get past the first fighter because the AI is broken, That just a brings my piss to a boil. 
 They only thing you have to help you in this game is button mashing... that is never a good foundation 
 for a solid game. I would get into more detail about why this game sucks, but I get migraines thinking 
 about it. Don't be fooled by its awesome presentation. Great Graphics don't Equal a great game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZavierKonz
Rating: 4.5
Date: Sep 30, 2008 3:25 pm PT
Review:  First thing you need to know about this game is that it is NOTHING like EA Sports previous boxing 
 game, Fight Night Round 3. There is litteraly no tactics or strategies in this game other than 
 choosing the right character for each fight. This is all about button smashing and your hands are 
 probably going to get soar within the first 10 fights. The graphics are interesting, kinda reminds 
 me of Team Fortress 2, very cartoony. The characters are all different and funny but they kinda 
 get old after a while, there is not a whole lot of boxers to choose from. The solo game is very 
 limited but multiplayer can be fun, especially if you play with friends. Needless to say, this 
 game is a renter to me, at best. If you are a fan of the Fight Night series, don't even bother 
 with this one, you'll be totally dissapointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darkened_skys
Rating: 5.5
Date: Sep 27, 2008 8:38 am PT
Review:  Facebreaker is a good idea for a game but it is simply destroyed by the AI. The AI is impossibly 
 hard to defeat and eventually after getting your face smashed in over and over you will put Facebreaker 
 back on your shelf and seek out a much better game. In fact when it is a monkey that is beating 
 you to within an inch of your life it just makes your loss worse. The Brawl for It All mode is 
 fun to start with but you will quickly get stuck and not be able to progress further. I played 
 it for about 6 hours then started playing another game and haven't played Facebreaker since. This 
 just illustrates how easy it is to give up on Facebreaker and how boring it gets. Overall it is 
 a fun game for the first few hours but then the novelty starts wears off quickly. If you are looking 
 for a quick easy game to play around with don't buy Facebreaker but if you want a challenging (near 
 enough impossible game on the higher difficulty levels) then this is for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hellhound1345
Rating: 2
Date: Sep 24, 2008 6:45 am PT
Review:  I hired out facebreaker, thinking it would be a fun enjoyable fighting/boxing game. The visuals 
 looks interesting as did the characters in it. All that aside, the game was the most frustrating 
 peice of crap i have ever player.
  
  To start off with, i chose this stupid looking surfy guy, and spent about 30 very frustrating minutes 
 trying to get the first belt. The "boss" you have to beat to get the belt **** me off beyond beleif. 
 An overweight karate guy, whos special move is to go invisable throw you into the corner, and beat 
 the living **** out of you, until you get knocked out.
  
  After a character change, to the biggest guy i could find, i found getting the first belt alot 
 easier. i moved onto the second belt, where i had to fight a fellow name ICE. after about an hour 
 of, screaming, walking off for 5 mins and coming back, punching doors and cupboards and cursing 
 at the tv, i still hadnt managed to beat him. a pattern i had noticed was, i would beat the absolute 
 **** out of him for 3 rounds, his face would be completely busted up and mine only semi busted. 
 But then comes the sudden death round, i would be happily beating the crap out of him, then out 
 of no where, he would counter every single hit i did, and would constantly put me in that dumb 
 daze they go into with the stars around their head, then, get me into a corner, and im gone! the 
 end! i gave up, when i damaged my right hand to much from punching things out of frustration too 
 much.
  
  I would pretty much not recomend this game to anyone, dont even hire it, use your money for somthing 
 more usefull.. like condoms... that way, you can limit the amount of terrible game designers there 
 are. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jit01
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 22, 2008 8:42 pm PT
Review:  I found the Gamespot review of this a little harsh. I can see where they are coming from as when 
 I bought the game I thought that it being an EA game it may be the new Fight Night until Round 
 4 comes out. Not so. 
  The gameplay is completely different, the right analog controller is not used at all and it focuses 
 more on fun and comedy than on realism or techicality. 
  Dodging is cool, when the opposition throws a punch you just have either the "high" or "low" punch 
 button held down and your boxer will step aside, let it go to release a nice hook and you can work 
 up some extremely long comboes without every being touched. Once you get this down you can charge 
 up a meter that culminates in the ability to unleash a variety of different "breaker" moves on 
 the poor sod ;)
  It's fun but once you've got the dodging mechanic down and seen all of the breakers for an individual 
 it doesn't have much more to offer. 
  Still it's worth a look, just don't expect to be playing it a few weeks down the track. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dannyroff
Rating: 1
Date: Sep 22, 2008 11:54 am PT
Review:  FRUSTRATING POS. GLAD IT WAS ONLY A RENTAL. GOT MORE ENJOYMENT OUT OF THE BRICK AUDITION VIDEO 
 THAN THE WHOLE GAME
  
  I HAVE SORE HANDS AND AN EMPTY FEELING IN MY SOUL.
  
  MY NEIGHBORS HAVE HEARD LONG LISTS OF EXPLICIT DESCRIPTIVE VENTED DURING MY PITIFUL EXPERIENCE 
 WITH THIS GAME.
  
  I HATE FACEBREAKER. I REALLY WANTED TO LOVE IT, I PLAYED 2 PLAYER MODE AND THAT WAS OK COS THEN 
 YOU HAVE A BIT MORE BALANCED OPPOSITION.
  
  HAVE NOT TRIED IT ONLINE YET... NOT TOO HOPEFUL ABOUT THAT
  
  SOMETIMES YOU HAVE TO AGREE WITH 
 THE REVIEWERS AND THAT SADDENS ME BECAUSE THEN I FEEL PREDICTABLE... BUT THIS IS POO
  
  SMELLY POO.
  
  IS THAT 100 WORDS YET?
  
  I HOPE SO
  
  OH 800 CHARACTERS NOW AAAAAAARRRGGGGGGH
 
  
  ITS SUCKING MY WILL TO LIVE
  
  I COULD BE PLAYING FACE BREAKER... OH NO THATS RIGHT IT
  
  IS
  
  POO 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Grim-E
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 21, 2008 12:14 pm PT
Review:  This game is not for your hardcore gamer. If anyone was expecting this to be like, super awesome 
 that's probably why you think it's bad. I approached this game with a non serious touch, I wasn't 
 expecting it to be good but after playing for a while, it's pretty enjoyable. It's definetly no 
 Soul Calibur or Tekken. But it's really something different and I think it's pretty cool. The only 
 thing I don't like is the way the created characters look, it really ruins the feel of the game. 
 The wacky and cartoonish geometry of the regular characters in the game gives the game what it 
 needs. But when the created characters are put in the game, they look like real people and it just 
 makes the game feel like it supposed to be serious. Seeing them have googly eyes when they get 
 punched is just stupid. The gameplay is very fast paced and responsive, perfect for button mashing. 
 But the tutorial doesn't really go into depth on the way things work in the game. So just picking 
 up the game is kinda hard to do. And I don't like that every character works the same way mostly, 
 but the gameplay really just rolls over all the bad stuff making up for it bit. Borrow this from 
 a friend and you'll probably understand what I'm talking about. As soon as the price drops about 
 20-30 bucks it will be worth the money.
  
  + KEY POINTS +
  -This game is not for your hardcore gamer. 
  -I approached this game with a non serious touch
 
  -It's definetly no Soul Calibur or Tekken.
  -it's really something different and I think it's pretty cool.
  -I don't like is the way the 
 created characters look
  -The gameplay is very fast paced and responsive
  -just picking up the game is kinda hard to do.
  -gameplay really just rolls over all the bad 
 stuff making up for it bit
  -As soon as the price drops about 20-30 bucks it will be worth the money.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DJF00P
Rating: 6
Date: Sep 21, 2008 12:01 am PT
Review:  This game is a very repetitive and expensive piece of monkey organs. What this means is, it is 
 a little repetitive and it is very hard. I can barely do any part of the game on easy. Medium is 
 barely possible. I think I have only beaten a character on medium once. The custom boxer feature 
 is really nice though. I love it. The best part is like unlike creating your own boxer in fight 
 night, you don't have to make your boxer look that realistic in this one. My guy has green skin 
 and pink hair. The actual gameplay is button mashing with a little strategy. Blocking makes you 
 feel smart, and breaking their face is a great thing to do (if you are able to) . That sums it up 
 for the actual game, but today, you get a special treat.
  
  I am now reviewing the Facebreaker Demo. This demo is great, I would give it a 9 out of 10. You 
 basically get all the features of the regular game, but for free. The only good part of the regular 
 game (Which i have actually played only once, at my friends house, which he returned the next day) 
 is the character creator, and that is on the demo. Of course you cant upload your own photo, but 
 who has a XBL Vision camera anyway? After that, you can fight two characters, which are fun uses 
 of your button mashing skills. I preferably like to completely destroy the enemy in practice mode. 
 So just get the demo. It really is all you need. Or if you don't have enough memory, don't get 
 it. I also say that all people with an Elite console should download this demo. It is great for 
 blowing off some steam. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: learcrew
Rating: 2
Date: Sep 15, 2008 5:44 am PT
Review:  How do you start a review of such a ridiculous game. A game sold on the bright cartoony characters 
 that screamed out FUN!! to us before the game was released. A game that was surely based almost 
 entirely on the hugely successful and fun Ready to Rumble. Unfortunately, if you remove the decent 
 elements from Ready to Rumble, Facebreaker is what you get! Hideously unfair difficuly spikes from 
 fighter to fighter and a total lack of any kind of comedy due to the fact that you will want to 
 snap your disc in two. The graphics are nice and colourful, nicely animated and well presented 
 and the sound is routinely given the EA tracks treatment which are generally agreeable. Overall 
 i would say that the game is just an insult to the gameplaying community as it provides very little 
 entertainment and overcompensates for its limited roster of fighters by making some of them almost 
 completely unbeatable. Oh and it hurt my hands too as the control system is so bad. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: princesszelda
Rating: 5.5
Date: Sep 14, 2008 11:00 am PT
Review:  FaceBreaker is EA Sports arcade style boxing game which throws realism out of the window and tries 
 to focus more on fun. While the game offers some interesting features, the unfair A. I and frustrating 
 game play hinder it from being the champ in this genre. 
  
  Compared to simulation boxing games, FaceBreaker focuses less on strategic boxing and more on button 
 mashing. There is so much button mashing in the game that your hands will begin to ache a couple 
 minutes into your first match. There are both offensive and defensive attacks which include: the 
 high and low punch, haymaker, throw, parry, dodge and block. 'Breakers' are the special attacks 
 that each boxer executes once the combo meter begins to fill up. The higher the meter goes the 
 more damage your opponent will take. The highest 'Breaker' is the Face Breaker which will instantly 
 end the fight granting you the win. In order to win a match you must knockout your opponent three 
 times within a total of three rounds. If this doesn't happen the final round is Sudden Death and 
 the boxer that gets knocked out loses. The Sudden Death round is a rip off since you could be dominating 
 your opponent the entire fight and then you end up losing from one knockout.
  
  While the controls where intended to be simple they end up being frustrating since they aren't 
 responsive. The A. I tends to feel cheap because they constantly will throw you in a corner and 
 unleash crucial combos on you. When this happens it's nearly impossible to pull off an offensive 
 or defensive attack. Because of this the game ends up being harder and more frustrating than what 
 it should be even on the easy difficulty level. Since the game play is so quick most of the time 
 you won't even realize what is going on.
  
  FaceBreaker doesn't offer much when it comes to content. There are a few game modes but none of 
 them are entirely satisfying. There is the fight mode which is just the standard one on one fight. 
 'Brawl for it All' is the campaign mode in which you work your way up in rank by defeating boxers 
 in different arenas for belts. The Practice mode gives you the chance to practice the basics. The 
 'Couch Royale' mode puts you against one boxer after another in tournament style. Each boxer that 
 you defeat will grant you their head to be placed in the Trophy Room. Online matches are offered 
 through Xbox Live. Other than the online leagues and Fight mode there aren't any other modes available 
 online. Since you aren't playing against the A. I online the game is more enjoyable and is better 
 balanced.
  
  The Create a Boxer feature is surprisingly in depth and fun to mess around with. If you own an 
 Xbox Live Vision camera you'll be able to take a picture of yourself to create yourself in the 
 game. The uploading process takes almost fifteen minutes and the results are well worth the wait. 
 There is also the option of going onto the EA website to upload pictures of random people so that 
 players will be able to download it into their games. There are all types of downloadable characters 
 ranging from Michael Jackson to The Joker.
  
  There isn't too much to say about the sound in the game. Each character has something to say before 
 and after each match. Besides that and the hip-hop music in the menu and loading screens there 
 are only punch sounds. There isn't a variety of them and they quickly become repetitive. 
  
  When it comes to presentation FaceBreaker shines. The cartoony art style suits the game very 
 well. The characters facial animations are on point and being able to how much damage you've done 
 to your opponents face never gets old. There is a wide variety of characters to choose from and 
 each of them has their own unique fighting style. While these characters might seem a little generic 
 they are rather funny. The rings don't look that great and the ropes don't always respond and move 
 when a boxer is knocked into them.
  
  While FaceBreaker makes good with its presentation and 'Create a Boxer' feature it still has a 
 lot of issues that makes the game much too frustrating to play. Unfortunately this just goes to 
 show that just because a game looks great doesn't mean it's going to play great. You're honestly 
 better off going into your closet and digging out your old Ready 2 Rumble games. 
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
