-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Fallout 3
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/xbox360/rpg/fallout3/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Freedom to explore what you want, when you want.
 Fantastic, intricate quests can be completed in a variety of satisfying ways.
 VATS combat system results in all sorts of tense and gruesome encounters.
 Outstanding art design makes for a desolate DC.
 Rewarding mixture of excitement and atmospheric exploration.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 The story and characters can feel a bit sterile.
 Combat feels mildly clunky.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Oct 28, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 9
Critic Score: 9.3, 73 Review (s)
User Score: 9.2, 9,269 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Bethesda Softworks
Genre: Role-Playing
Date: Oct 28, 2008
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Fallout 3 is a profoundly engrossing role-playing game just waiting to reveal its deep, dark mysteries. 
 

  A lot of games make a big deal out of player choice, but few in recent memory offer so many intricate, 
 meaningful ways of approaching any given situation. You fulfill or dash the spiritual hopes of 
 an idyllic society, side with slavers or their slaves, and decide the fate of more than one city 
 over the course of your postapocalyptic journey through the Washington, DC wasteland. Your actions 
 have far-reaching consequences that affect not just the world around you but also the way you play, 
 and it's this freedom that makes Fallout 3 worth playing -- and replaying. It's deep and mesmerizing, 
 and though not as staggeringly broad as the developer's previous games, it's more focused and vividly 
 realized.  

           Welcome to the wasteland.      

  This focus is obvious from the first hour of the game, in which character creation and story exposition 
 are beautifully woven together. It's an introduction best experienced on your own rather than described 
 in detail here, but it does set up Fallout 3's framework: It's the year 2277, and you and your 
 father are residents of Vault 101, one of many such constructs that shelter the earth's population 
 from the dangers of postnuclear destruction. When dad escapes the vault without so much as a goodbye, 
 you go off in search of him, only to find yourself snagged in a political and scientific tug of 
 war that lets you change the course of the future. As you make your way through the decaying remnants 
 of the District and its surrounding areas (you'll visit Arlington, Chevy Chase, and other suburban 
 locales) , you encounter passive-aggressive ghouls, a bumbling scientist, and an old Fallout friend 
 named Harold who has, well, a lot on his mind. Another highlight is a diminutive collective of 
  Lord of the Flies -esque refugees who reluctantly welcome you into their society, assuming that 
 you play your cards right.  

  The city is also one of Fallout 3's stars. It's a somber world out there, in which a crumbling 
 Washington Monument stands watch over murky green puddles and lurching beasts called mirelurks. 
 You'll discover new quests and characters while exploring, of course, but traversing the city is 
 rewarding on its own, whether you decide to explore the back rooms of a cola factory or approach 
 the heavily guarded steps of the Capitol building. In fact, though occasional silly asides and 
 amusing dialogue provide some humorous respite, it's more serious than previous Fallout games. 
 It even occasionally feels a bit stiff and sterile, thus diminishing the sense of emotional connection 
 that would give some late-game decisions more poignancy. Additionally, the franchise's black humor 
 is present but not nearly as prevalent, though Fallout 3 is still keenly aware of its roots. The 
 haughty pseudogovernment called the Enclave and the freedom fighters known as the Brotherhood of 
 Steel are still powerful forces, and the main story centers around concepts and objectives that 
 Fallout purists will be familiar with.  

  Although some of that trademark Bethesda brittleness hangs in the air, the mature dialogue (it's 
 a bit unnerving but wholly authentic the first time you hear 8-year-olds muttering expletives) 
 and pockets of backstory make for a compelling trek. There are more tidbits than you could possibly 
 discover on a single play-through. For example, a skill perk (more on these later) will enable 
 you to extract information from a lady of the evening, information that in turn sheds new light 
 on a few characters -- and lets you complete a story quest in an unexpected way. A mission to find 
 a self-realized android may initiate a fascinating look at a futuristic Underground Railroad, but 
 a little side gossiping might let you lie your way to quest completion. There aren't as many quests 
 as you may expect, but their complexity can be astonishing. Just be sure to explore them fully 
 before pushing the story forward: Once it ends, the game is over, which means that you'll need 
 to revert to an earlier saved game if you intend to explore once you finishe the main quest.  

 
  Thus choices are ruled only by your own sense of propriety and the impending results. For every 
 "bad" decision you make (break into someone's room, sacrifice a soldier to save your own hide) , 
 your karma goes down; if you do something "good" (find a home for an orphan, give water to a beggar) , 
 your karma goes up. These situations trigger more consequences: Dialogue choices open up, others 
 close off, and your reputation will delight some while antagonizing others. For example, a mutant 
 with a heart of gold will join you as a party member, but only if your karma is high enough, whereas 
 a brigand requires you to be on the heartless side. Even in the last moments of the game, you are 
 making important choices that will be recounted to you during the ending scene, similar to the 
 endings in the previous Fallout games. There are loads of different ending sequences depending 
 on how you completed various quests, and the way they are patched together into a cohesive epilogue 
 is pretty clever.  

  Fallout 3 remains true to the series character development system, using a similar system of attributes, 
 skills, and perks, including the S. P. E. C. I. A. L. system from previous games for your attributes, 
 such as strength, perception, and endurance. From there, you can specialize in a number of skills, 
 from heavy weapons and lock-picking to item repairing and terminal hacking. You will further invest 
 in these skills each time you level, and you'll also choose an additional perk. Perks offer a number 
 of varied enhancements that can be both incredibly helpful and a bit creepy. You could go for the 
 ladykiller perk, which opens up dialogue options with some women and makes others easier to slay. 
 Or the cannibal perk, which lets you feed off of fallen enemies to regain health at the risk of 
 grossing out anyone who glimpses this particularly nasty habit. Not all of them are so dramatic, 
 but they're important aspects of character development that can create fascinating new options. 

           The VATS system makes for some awesome-looking battles.      

  Although you can play from an odd-looking third-person perspective (your avatar looks like he or 
 she is skating over the terrain) , Fallout 3 is best played from a first-person view. Where combat 
 is concerned, you will play much of the game as if it is a first-person shooter, though awkwardly 
 slow movement and camera speeds mean that you'll never confuse it for a true FPS. Armed with any 
 number of ranged and melee weapons, you can bash and shoot attacking dogs and random raiders in 
 a traditional manner. Yet even with its slight clunkiness, combat is satisfying. Shotguns (including 
 the awesome sawed-off variant) have a lot of oomph, plasma rifles leave behind a nice pile of goo, 
 and hammering a mutant's head with the giant and cumbersome supersledge feels momentously brutal. 
 Just be prepared to maintain these implements of death: Weapons and armor will gradually lose effectiveness 
 and need repairing. You can take them to a specialist for fixing, but you can also repair them 
 yourself, as long as you have another of the same item. It's heartbreaking to break a favored weapon 
 while fending off supermutants, but it reinforces the notion that everything you do in Fallout 
 3, even shooting your laser pistol, has consequences.  

  These aspects keep Fallout 3 from being a run-and-gun affair, and you shouldn't expect to play 
 it as one. This is because the most satisfying and gory moments of battle are products of the Vault-Tec 
 Assisted Targeting System, or VATS. This system is a throwback to the action-point system of previous 
 Fallout games, in that it lets you pause the action, spend action points by targeting a specific 
 limb on your enemy, and watch the bloody results unfold in slow motion. You aren't guaranteed a 
 hit, though you can see how likely you are to strike any given limb and how much damage your attack 
 might do. But landing a hit in VATS is immensely gratifying: The camera swoops in for a dramatic 
 view, your bullet will zoom toward its target, and your foe's head might burst in a shocking explosion 
 of blood and brains. Or perhaps you will blow his limb completely off, sending an arm flying into 
 the distance -- or launch his entire body into oblivion.     

   

  This anatomically based damage is implemented well. Shooting an Enclave soldier's arm may cause 
 him to drop his weapon, shooting his leg will cause him to limp, and a headshot will disorient 
 him. But you aren't immune to these effects, either. If your head takes enough damage, you'll need 
 to deal with disorienting aftereffects; crippled arms mean reduced aiming ability. Fortunately, 
 you can apply healing stimpacks locally to heal the injury; likewise, a little sleep will help 
 ease your troubles. You can also temporarily adjust your stats using any number of aids and healing 
 items. Yet these, too, come with consequences. A little scotch or wine sounds delicious and offers 
 temporary stat boosts, but you can become addicted if you drink them enough, which results in its 
 own disorienting visual effects. And, of course, you will need to deal with the occasional effects 
 of radiation, which is a problem when you drink from dirty water sources or eat irradiated food. 
 Radiation poisoning can be cured, but you'll still need to weigh the healing benefits of certain 
 items versus the resultant increase in radiation levels.  

           Quests are often more than meets the eye.      

  This all makes for a remarkably complex 
 game that's further deepened by other elements that add some gameplay variety and help the world 
 feel more lived-in. Lock-picking initiates a decent, if odd, minigame that simulates applying torque 
 to the lock with a screwdriver while twisting a bobby pin. The hacking minigame is an interesting 
 word puzzle that requires a little bit of brainpower. Or if you fancy yourself more of a blacksmith 
 than a wordsmith, you can earn and purchase schematics to help you create weapons using the various 
 components scattered around the land. More of an interior decorator? No matter: Should you acquire 
 the deed to an apartment, you can decorate it and even outfit it with a few helpful appliances. 
 The jokester robot comes free.  

  Although you'll be spending much of your time wandering alone out in the wastes, or perhaps with 
 a companion or two, there are some memorable cinematic sequences. You will join soldiers as they 
 take on a giant boss mutant, spearhead an assault on a famous DC landmark, and escape from a doomed 
 citadel while robots and soldiers fill the air with laser fire. It's a good mix, paying off the 
 atmospheric tension with an occasional explosive release. Your enemies put up a good fight -- often 
 too good, considering that enemies that were a challenge early on can still be tough cookies 5 
 or 10 levels later. This scaling difficulty makes your sense of progression feel a bit more limited 
 than in other role-playing games, but it feels somewhat appropriate, considering the game's open-ended 
 nature and inhospitable world. After all, if skulking mutants weren't a constant threat, you wouldn't 
 be afraid to peek into the dark corners of the Fallout world. It should be noted that unlike previous 
 games in the series, you cant take a completely peaceful approach to solving your quest. In order 
 to complete the game, you will have to get into combat and kill off some enemies, but since the 
 combat system is generally pretty satisfying, this shouldnt be a serious problem for most players. 

  Fallout 3 takes place in a bombed-out, futuristic version of Washington DC, and in the game, the 
 area is bleak but oddly serene. Crumbling overpasses loom overhead and optimistic 1950's-style 
 billboards advertise their products with sunny catchphrases. It looks impressive, and you move 
 around the wide-open wasteland with nary a loading time, though you will encounter loads when entering 
 and exiting buildings or quick-jumping to areas you've already visited. Numerous set-piece landmarks 
 are particularly ominous, such as a giant aircraft carrier that serves as a self-contained city, 
 or the decrepit interiors of the National Air and Space Museum. But the small touches are just 
 as terrific, such as explosions that produce mushroom-like clouds of flame and smoke, evoking the 
 nuclear tragedy at the heart of Fallout 3's concept. Character models are more lifelike than in 
 the developer's prior efforts but still move somewhat stiffly, lacking the expressiveness of the 
 models in games such as Mass Effect.  

  It's a shame, in light of these impressive design elements, that the PlayStation 3 version is shockingly 
 inferior to the others from a technical perspective. Although the Xbox 360 and PC versions display 
 the occasional visual oddity and bland texture, these nitpicks are easy to overlook. Sadly, the 
 jagged edges, washed-out lighting, and slightly diminished draw distance of the PS3 release aren't 
 so easy to dismiss. We also experienced a number of visual bugs on the PS3. Character faces disappeared 
 several times, leaving only eyeballs and hair; limbs on robots went missing; some character models 
 had an odd outline around them as if they were cel-shaded; and the day-to-night transition may 
 cause odd streaks on the screen as you move the camera around. This version doesn't even offer 
 trophies, whereas the Xbox 360 and PC versions offer Xbox Live/Windows Live achievements.  

           While there is plenty of somber exploration, you'll still find lots of action.      
 

  Aside from a few PS3-specific sound quirks, the audio in every version is marvelous. Most of the 
 voice acting is great, some sleepy-sounding performances notwithstanding. Any game's atmosphere 
 can live or die by its ambient audio, and Fallout 3 rises to the challenge. The whistling of the 
 wind and the far-off sound of a gunshot are likely to give you a chill, and the slow-motion groans 
 and crunch of a baseball bat meeting a ghoul's face sound wonderfully painful. If you get lonely 
 and want some company, you can listen to a couple of radio stations, though the frequent repetition 
 of the songs and announcements grates after a while. The soundtrack is fine, though it's a bit 
 overwrought considering the desolate setting. Luckily, its default volume is very low, so it doesn't 
 get in the way.  

  No matter what platform you own, you should play Fallout 3, which overcomes its issues by offering 
 a deep and involving journey through a world that's hard to forget. It has more in common with 
 Bethesda's Elder Scrolls series than with previous Fallout games, but that is by no means a bad 
 thing. In fact, Fallout 3 is leaner and meaner than Bethesda's previous efforts, less expansive 
 but more intense, while still offering immense replay value and quite a few thrills along the way. 
 Whether you're a newcomer to the universe or a Fallout devotee, untold hours of mutated secrets 
 are lurking in the darkest corners of Washington.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (629 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: RMulzet
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 17, 2009 2:19 pm PT
Review:  Even though my first game got hit with a scripting bug at 90ish hours and I was forced to restart... 
 I still did and have spent 45+ hours in my second game. I have absolutely enjoyed every minute 
 of it, despite 'wasting' 90 hours on my first game. The VATS mode really fixed the problem I had 
 with Oblivion - the fact you could "miss" an enemy with a costly spell because they moved to the 
 side or you just missed targetting them correctly. Running around essentially in FPS mode and hitting 
 VATS for gaurenteed accuracy when you need it is awesome for an "RPG" type feel.
  
  What would I change? Some kind of combat feedback would be awesome. All you need is a small 3-4 
 line area on the side of the screen that says things like "Rocket launcher does 57 damage to Super 
 Mutant" so you actually know how much damage you're doing. This is a MUST for us stat-crunching 
 RPG fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sanabriacr
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 17, 2009 12:49 pm PT
Review:  Master Piece 100+ hours of entertainment. Master Piece 100+ hours of entertainment. Master Piece 
 100+ hours of entertainment. Master Piece 100+ hours of entertainment. Master Piece 100+ hours of 
 entertainment. Master Piece 100+ hours of entertainment. Master Piece 100+ hours of entertainment. Master 
 Piece 100+ hours of entertainment. Master Piece 100+ hours of entertainment. Master Piece 100+ hours 
 of entertainment. Master Piece 100+ hours of entertainment. Master Piece 100+ hours of entertainment. Master 
 Piece 100+ hours of entertainment. Master Piece 100+ hours of entertainment. Master Piece 100+ hours 
 of entertainment. Master Piece 100+ hours of entertainment. Master Piece 100+ hours of entertainment. Master 
 Piece 100+ hours of entertainment. Master Piece 100+ hours of entertainment. Master Piece 100+ hours 
 of entertainment. Master Piece 100+ hours of entertainment. Master Piece 100+ hours of entertainment. Master 
 Piece 100+ hours of entertainment. Master Piece 100+ hours of entertainment. Master Piece 100+ hours 
 of entertainment. Master Piece 100+ hours of entertainment. Master Piece 100+ hours of entertainment. Master 
 Piece 100+ hours of entertainment. Master Piece 100+ hours of entertainment. Master Piece 100+ hours 
 of entertainment. Master Piece 100+ hours of entertainment. Master Piece 100+ hours of entertainment. Master 
 Piece 100+ hours of entertainment. Master Piece 100+ hours of entertainment. Master Piece 100+ hours 
 of entertainment. Master Piece 100+ hours of entertainment. Master Piece 100+ hours of entertainment. Master 
 Piece 100+ hours of entertainment. Master Piece 100+ hours of entertainment. Master Piece 100+ hours 
 of entertainment. Master Piece 100+ hours of entertainment. Master Piece 100+ hours of entertainment. Master 
 Piece 100+ hours of entertainment. Master Piece 100+ hours of entertainment. Master Piece 100+ hours 
 of entertainment. Master Piece 100+ hours of entertainment. Master Piece 100+ hours of entertainment. Master 
 Piece 100+ hours of entertainment. Master Piece 100+ hours of entertainment. Master Piece 100+ hours 
 of entertainment. Master Piece 100+ hours of entertainment. Master Piece 100+ hours of entertainment. Master 
 Piece 100+ hours of entertainment. Master Piece 100+ hours of entertainment. Master Piece 100+ hours 
 of entertainment. Master Piece 100+ hours of entertainment. Master Piece 100+ hours of entertainment. Master 
 Piece 100+ hours of entertainment. Master Piece 100+ hours of entertainment. Master Piece 100+ hours 
 of entertainment. Master Piece 100+ hours of entertainment. Master Piece 100+ hours of entertainment. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SiLeNcEE_
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 16, 2009 11:01 am PT
Review:  I'd heard all the talk about this game and decided to give it a try. I'm a big fan of RPGs so I 
 started to like this game right off. I ended up liking it so much that I consider it the best game 
 I've played in years. It has a decent storyline, nothing too different from what I've heard before, 
 but it was told very well. This is one of very few games that I actually thought the voice acting 
 was good. Most game voice actors make me want to bang my head against a wall. The real great part 
 of the game is not the main storyline which is relatively short, but the massive amount of other 
 quests, collectibles, and areas to explore.
  
  The combat system is interesting to say the least. I like the fact that it can be played as an 
 FPS in combat if you want. The VATS system is alright. It's almost necessary in the early parts 
 of the game to conserve ammo, but eventually in the late game when you have tons of ammo to spare 
 there is little need for VATS. The slow motion effect of VATS was really cool the first hundred 
 times I saw it but after that it just takes longer than necessary to kill something. The only thing 
 i still use VATS for is long range shooting and if I'm about to die just to freeze the screen. 
 
  
  The vast open endedness of Fallout 3 is my personal favorite part of the game. There are over 100 
 separate areas to explore in the game not including all of the places in the world that are not 
 considered marked locations. There are several side quests in the game that are surprisingly lengthy. 
 In addition to that there are great rewards, such as the stat enhancing bobbleheads and skill books, 
 to exploring the huge world of Fallout 3. Another great thing about the game is that there are 
 many ways to complete each quest. In most games there is just a good way or a bad way. In Fallout 
 3 there is often 4 or 5 different ways to complete a quest.
  
  The biggest problem I had with the game was the perks. Some of them are almost useless. Any that 
 gave skills was unnecessary because there are enough skill books in the game to max out every skill. 
 The entomologist perk let you do 50% more damage to bugs. Sounds great. There are 3 types of bugs 
 in the game. Only radscorpions are common. Radroaches can be killed almost always in one shot by 
 any weapon in the game once you hit level 5 without the perk. Giant ants are only in four or five 
 areas in the game that I can remember. The bloody mess perk makes everything explode in a gory 
 mess. Sounds and looks really cool. But after seeing the animation over 500 times I was sick and 
 tired of it because it made VATS take even longer as you watch them disintigrate.
  
  Overall Fallout 3 is one of the best games out there right now. Notice I had to find some pretty 
 obscure stuff to complain about. I played it through 4 times now. That just shows how great I think 
 the game is. 
  
  Perfect score 10/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jercioh
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 16, 2009 7:37 am PT
Review:  read this exhilarating review.
  
  The main quest begins after the player character (the Lone Wanderer) is forced to escape Vault 
 101 at age 19, having become a target of suspicion following their father's disappearance. The 
 search for James, the player's father, takes the character on a journey through the wasteland, 
 first to the nearby city of Megaton, named for the undetonated nuclear bomb at its center. The 
 player finds out that James went to the Galaxy News Radio station. After going through a long journey 
 through the subway, the player follows some Brotherhood of Steel members fighting through super 
 mutants invading the radio station, afterwards fighting a super mutant behemoth. The Lone Wanderer 
 meets Three Dog, head of Galaxy News Radio. The Lone Wanderer is sent to bring the station back 
 on the air and, after doing so, the player character travels to Rivet City, a derelict aircraft 
 carrier now serving as a human settlement. Here the player meets Doctor Li, a scientist who worked 
 alongside the player's father. Doctor Li tells the player of Project Purity, a plan to remove the 
 radiation from the water of the Tidal Basin, as a means of restoring the environment and improving 
 the lives of those inhabiting the wasteland.
  
  
  After investigating the lab of Project Purity, built inside the Jefferson Memorial rotunda, the 
 player tracks James to Vault 112 and frees him from a virtual reality program called Tranquility 
 Lane being run by the Vault's corrupt Overseer, who has gone insane and taken over the virtual 
 reality as a god-like dictator. The player and James return to Rivet City and meet up with Doctor 
 Li. They discuss the Garden of Eden Creation Kit (G. E. C. K.) and its possible whereabouts, which 
 are rumored to be located in Project Purity's computer database. However, while the player helps 
 James restart the lab equipment, the Enclave arrives and attempts to take over the project for 
 their own purposes. James sacrifices himself and kills several Enclave soldiers during a confrontation 
 with the Enclave's commander, Colonel Autumn, by overloading Project Purity's main chamber with 
 lethal amounts of radiation, although Autumn survives. After fleeing the lab through underground 
 tunnels, Li and the Wanderer arrive at the Citadel of the Brotherhood of Steel, which is located 
 in the ruins of the Pentagon. After recovering, Li pleads with the player to find a G. E. C. K. to 
 finish James' work. The Lone Wanderer eventually finds out that there is one in Vault 87, which 
 had been dedicated to creating and perfecting the FEV (Forced Evolutionary Virus) , but is now overrun 
 by super mutants. The Lone Wanderer discovers that Vault 87's entrance is flooded with lethal levels 
 of radiation, and that the only way through are shortcuts through Little Lamplight, a cave controlled 
 by children. The Wanderer is forced to free their friends from a slave trading post called Paradise 
 Falls. In return, the children let the Wanderer through a super mutant-infested shortcut to the 
 Vault. There the Wanderer meets a friendly super mutant named Fawkes, who helps him retrieve it. 
 After retrieving the G. E. C. K. the player tries to escape Vault 87, but is ambushed again by the 
 Enclave, taking the Lone Wanderer as captive.
  
  
  
  Awakening in a holding cell in Raven Rock, (The Enclave's main base) the Lone Wanderer is briefly 
 interrogated by Colonel Autumn and then summoned to the office of President Eden, who promises 
 safe passage to his control room. While the Wanderer is en route, however, Colonel Autumn, acting 
 against Eden, orders the Enclave soldiers to attack, and the player must fight his or her way to 
 the control room. There Eden, actually a supercomputer given control of the East Coast of the United 
 States, gives the Wanderer a modified form of the FEV virus, which once used in Project Purity 
 will not only purify the water but kill all individuals with any level of mutation, thus making 
 the Enclave the healthy, pure master race. The Lone Wanderer must ultimately choose whether or 
 not to activate the virus. The player escapes the Enclave and returns to the Citadel, where the 
 Brotherhood of Steel enlists his or her aid in assaulting the Jefferson Memorial with Sarah Lyons, 
 the leader of an elite squad of Brotherhood Knights. After succeeding, the player must deal with 
 Colonel Autumn through violence or persuasion. Through the building's intercom, Doctor Li informs 
 the Wanderer that due to the damage caused by the recent fight, someone must activate the system 
 before it overloads, destroying the facility. Unfortunately, the one who activates the system will 
 have to be sacrificed due to the chamber being close to being overwhelmed by lethal amounts of 
 radiation. In the end, the choice comes down to the player, who must chose whether to activate 
 the system personally, convince Lyons to do it, activate the virus into Project Purity, or simply 
 wait, which ends in the facility's destruction. The ending sequence that follows depends on the 
 previous actions of the player
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: aceball69
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 15, 2009 10:08 am PT
Review:  Overview- This games is sick. In my words, Fallout 3 is TES IV Oblivion with guns and I love Oblivion. 
 This game gives you freedom, and lots of it. You can do basically anything you want to do, such 
 as raid Raider camps, search for loot in abandoned houses, explore the vast Wasteland, kill random 
 people, or even blow up towns. Freedom of choice is another reason this game deserves a 9.5. You 
 can choose to be an A-hole or a real nice guy or anything in between. The choices you make can 
 affect later game play. Also, Fallout 3 has a wonderful, compelling story that you will want to 
 finish again and again.
  
  Game play- Very fun! If you have ever played Oblivion, the game play is very similar. (It is made 
 by the same people ;) ) You have the freedom to explore on your own, taking on various baddies 
 such as Raiders, Rad- Scorpions, and Super Mutants. To tackle these enemies, you have a semi-side 
 range of guns and melee weapons at your disposal. Weapons include but are not limited to hunting 
 rifles, assault rifles, pistols, shot guns, missile launchers, and more. The world is pretty big 
 and pretty intimidating. The setting is Washington DC, post-apocalyptic style. Everything is barren 
 and it's a wasteland, but this doesn't mean it's an ugly game.
  
  Graphics- The graphics are beautiful. Although everything is barren, it's so detailed. The rocks, 
 the distant, destroyed bridges, the desolate canyons, the mutant enemies and just about everything 
 else. Once you step foot out side of the vault where you start your journey, your blinded by the 
 sun. When your vision returns, you stand staring at the distance. A beautiful, destroyed landscape 
 waiting for you to explore it. Also, decapitating enemies with the VATS system just to see how 
 big of a blood trail you can produce from their neck its pretty fun.
  
  Sounds- Sounds are ok, nothing special. You have a device called a Pip-Boy 3000. its basically 
 your menu where you check your status, your items, and view your map. It also has a gadget that 
 plays the local radio stations. Scattered around DC are radio towers that, when located and are 
 near by, you can listen to them as you walk around and explore.
  
  Special- Fallout is a great RPG. The VATS system lets you aim at specific body parts and it gives 
 you the percentage to hit. It stops time and lets you decide what to shoot at. There are a lot 
 of perks you can get as you level up. These perks can give upgrades to skills or they can make 
 the game more interesting as well as other things. Your character can be designed the way you want 
 to play so any RPG fan can enjoy Fallout to the fullest.
  
  Overall, I give this game a 9.5 because it's a savage, brutal experience that will keep you playing 
 for hours on end.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shadowscale18
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 15, 2009 7:48 am PT
Review:  Bethesda, the masterminds behind the Elder Scrolls series, took their bag of game making magic 
 and revived the Fallout series. Using the Oblivion engine, they made a free-roaming FPS/RPG hybrid 
 game that relies on heavy story telling, finely tuned gameplay, and exploring the post apocalyptic 
 Washington DC to ensure the player has a good time. However, Fallout 3 tries to do a little too 
 much, and none of it's gameplay features are really finely tuned.
  
  The story in Fallout is fairly good, for what it is. The world has succumbed to nuclear holocaust 
 and Humans now live in underground societies known as Vaults. You are born in Vault 101, and raised 
 from an infant to a young adult. The game lets you create your class, customize your race and choose 
 hairstyle, etc. It's not as in depth as the features in Oblivion, as you can only choose four ethnicities 
 to be. However, once you choose your character, you begin living life in the vault until one day, 
 your father leaves without so much as a good bye. So you venture after him. I won't spoil anything, 
 but the story is compelling and well told. My only complaint is that, with open ended games like 
 this, without a steady supply of cutscenes and hints as to what is going on, it's fairly easy to 
 get lost in the story. A few more informative situations would have helped greatly.
  
  The gameplay in Fallout 3 is nearly identical to Oblivion. First person RPG aspect, but this time 
 with mainly guns as the weapons. As a game, it tries to blend RPG and FPS elements into one slick 
 package. However, the game does a rather poor job. Firing weapons isn't as satisfying as it should 
 be, and the melee combat is virtually unchanged from it's incarnation from Oblivion. Sure, you 
 have a wider variety of guns (machine guns, pistols, mini nuke launchers, laser pistols, missile 
 launchers, etc) and a vast array of melee weapons (knives, pipes, tire irons, swords, baseball 
 bats, and even a board with a nail in it!) but the combat is boring with either choice. However, 
 to spice things up, the game brings in V. A. T. S., with is Vault Assisted Targeted System. When activated, 
 it brings up a little menu over the enemy with several locations you can shoot, the percentage 
 of chance for it hitting, and so on. Watching V. A. T. S. take care of an enemy is immensely satisfying, 
 as it slows down with dramatic camera angles. Also, Fallout is a bloody, gory game, so when a bullet 
 hits an enemy, for some reason (people in the future must be made of paper stuffed with meat) they 
 usually explode in a funny and somehow awesome shower of bits and pieces.
  
  Most of Fallout 3 is spent exploring the post apocalyptic wasteland of DC, and this is fun for 
 awhile before you realize that there is nothing to do. Sure, there are enemies, travelling traders 
 and dungeons around, but they're all the same. The exploring gets boring, and there is a LOT of 
 exploring to do. Unfortunately, the landscape is pretty barren of life, and gets old fast. There 
 are a great number of side quests, and most of which are fun for awhile, but they get repititive. 
 The enemies are mostly fun to shoot and blow up, for after awhile you get tired of the same old 
 super mutants, giant scorpions, giant roaches and zombies. While the enemies' difficulty scale 
 with you, they still get old, making fights boring. Fallout 3 does what no game should ever do 
 - it makes blowing up mutants boring. For shame. The core mechanics are just poorly implemented. 
 For a game that fancies itself a shooter/RPG, it doesn't do either terribly well.
  
  The graphics in Fallout 3 are fairly good. The enviroments are really detailed, with some beautiful 
 textures and wonderful lighting. However, like every game these days, the color pallette is a mixture 
 of brown, gray, more gray, and black. The enviroments look boring and aren't colorful. For the 
 character models, the game takes a step backwards with awkwardly blocky models with low res textures 
 and a lot of grain on them. Beautiful as they may be, up close they're none too pretty.
  
  The sound in Fallout 3 is poor in my opinion. Well, the voice acting is really good, with some 
 sharp and memorable performances (especially by Liam Neeson) , and the music isn't to bad, considering 
 all things, like the damned 1950s fetish games have these days. However, the sound effects are 
 awful. Guns sound like Medal of Honor for the PSone-era weaponary. Bland gun effects, dumb melee 
 sounds, and stupid sound effects make the game seem almost half-assed. 
  
  All in all, Fallout 3 is fun for awhile. If you can look past a few flaws, you have a rich world 
 full of exploration and baddies to shoot. If the bad sound effects, crazy story, boring combat 
 and horrible hybrid gameplay will turn you off, then stay away from Fallout 3.
  
  The core mechanics are just poorly implemented. For a game that fancies itself a shooter/RPG, it 
 doesn't do either terribly well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: demonkillerx
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 14, 2009 2:18 pm PT
Review:  Fallout 3 is one of the best RPG's ever made, along with the DLC which makes the game more awesome. 
 Here are the good things and bad things about Fallout 3.
  
  Good - Great storyline, lots of quests, VATS is ridiculously awesome, alot of replay value, lots 
 of environments to explore, way better than Oblivion, great voice acting, cool looking enemies, 
 great perks, multiple save files, the DLC is awesome, the abililty to change the difficulty at 
 anytime is great!
  
  Bad - Third Person view sucks (the camera views on that are horrible) , navigation sucks (it will 
 sometimes put you in the wrong direction) , weapons and clothing wear out over time, enemies take 
 a while to respawn in certain areas, can't get anymore perks after you reach lvl 20.
  
  Overall Fallout 3 is a superb RPG that you should not miss. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Urik_187
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 14, 2009 5:28 am PT
Review:  OK so I have been waiting for this game ever since I heard the Bethesda had bought the rights from 
 the liquidated Interplay (R. I. P.) 
  
  Let me start by saying that I have always been a fallout fan. I remember 1st playing fallout demo 
 way back in '98 and have loved and followed the game ever since. 
  
  What I loved the most about the original fallout (which was carried into the 2nd and 3rd as well) 
 was that you could do anything and be anyone. You had total control of your character and if you 
 didn't feel like paying for you equipment you could just target the shop owner with you 10mm SMG 
 and watch him violently convulse as he fell to the floor.
  
  Not only was the fallout games interactive but they had a great dark humour about them that I loved. 
 OK and now for my thoughts on the latest Fallout instalment.
  
  The game is absolutely great, from the minute my character stepped out of the vault I found myself 
 in aw over the spectacular graphics and utterly awesome destroyed scenery. Bethesda really went 
 all out in making you believe that this is a world where hope has fled and scars of a world war 
 are everywhere.
  
  The character creation and development is great and stays pretty true to the original fallout in 
 that you create your character and let him grow in this new world. However, what I did find lacking 
 was the amount of skills. I feel not only are there fewer skills, but also some of the skills don't 
 offer that much advantage (the medical skill for example. Instead of being able to better heal 
 yourself and comrades without the use of stimpacks it now just boosts the amount of health you 
 gain out of a stimpack. BORING!) Also I found it very easy to get my 3 tagged skills to 100% and 
 was saddened by the fact that this is as far as it goes. 
  
  The fallout 3 world is HUGE to say the least, definitely bigger than 1 or 2 and it has a lot of 
 familiar sites that are now in total destruction (such as the Lincoln memorial and the Capitol 
 building) I fully enjoyed exploring these places and have to give Bethesda two thumbs up to the 
 level of detail they have made. Another nice touch in the latest fallout is the ability to have 
 your own house. This is great because you can decorate it as you see fit and buy different themes 
 for it and store the inventory you cant carry. (Its like a post apocalyptic SIMS!)
  
  Right so if you have played the game already you know very well that Fallout 3 is more than just 
 a decent game. Its a great game! The AI is great, your companions know when to use what weapon 
 and are very self-sufficient. The enemy are intelligent in that they will take cover and use their 
 different artillery effective (They get pretty easy to kill however as you level up, also an evil 
 character is also more likely to have more ease in fending off a pack of super-mutants purely because 
 you either pillaged or stole all the best equipment!) 
  
  However, I do have to say that I still prefer playing the originals. Maybe its because I am such 
 a hardcore fan, maybe its because I am comparing it too much to its predecessors. Truth be told 
 though, I would have liked to have seen some overlooked similarities in the latest fallout. such 
 as:
  
  The amount of towns - This fallout does not have as many villages as the 1st two and also not half 
 as many kooky weird funny characters.
  
  Not as humorous - I remember playing fallout2 and your character tells some low-life, "Your parents 
 should have used a more reliable birth control" which had me laughing my head off. Fallout3 is 
 much darker but also less funny
  
  What happened to the fun skills?? - Where did the gambling skill go? or the outdoor skill? although 
 these skills did not influence the game directly they sure were fun to have!
  
  Info - And suddenly super-mutants! like its normal! This is fine for the gamers that have played 
 the 1st two games as they will know the history of super-mutants, ghouls, raiders, etc. But for 
 those new to the fallout world it seems as though those enemies are nothing more than another critter 
 to kill.
  
  Yes, I could go on for pages and pages listing all the differences but then you guys would simply 
 say, "they 2 different games!" so I will stop there. 
  
  In conclusion, Bethesda did an absolutely great job and silenced most of the critics. the game 
 is pretty fluid and if you go exploring you forget all about daddy dearest and make your own name 
 in the world of fallout
  
  I just wish that I didn't, at times, feel like I was playing Oblivion in the future...
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Aleperez75
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 14, 2009 1:13 am PT
Review:  Fallout 3 is just an addictive, beautiful, interesting and emotional game. I'll make this short. 
 First, I never played any of the previous Fallout installments. So to me all the Fallout fan complains 
 about the truthfulness of the third sequel is irrelevant. To me it was a game with beautiful graphics, 
 very few bugs, very unpredictable and interesting side quest, extremely fair achievement points 
 and just an very emotional game. I'll focus my review to the psychological part of it. I'm the 
 kind of guy who always play the good character, so this game makes you chose between two very similar 
 decision but with very different consequences. I felt attached to the wasteland characters. I felt 
 bad by their condition, mainly because I tried to imagine the world after a nuclear war and how 
 it would be. You realize that everybody is doing whatever it in their hands to survive, even at 
 the cost of other people freedoms or lives. So you come to peace in realizing that and that sometimes 
 you would need to do bad things for a greater good. I need to admit that I didn't love the game 
 of the game as it ends too quick and the final screen shots are not impressive. But the rest is 
 just addicting, immersive and emotionally charge. If you ask a 14 year old kid, they wouldn't be 
 very impressed by the psychological aspect of live since most of the time, at least in USA, the 
 ones that can afford the video gaming hobby have just a beautiful and easy live and they haven't 
 had to take tough decisions yet. Therefore I think this game is much better appreciated by a more 
 mature audience. Anyways, if you play it just watch out where you jump when you are in an enclose 
 environment (not in the open wasteland world) because you can get stuck and the only way to unstuck 
 you is by accessing your last saved game. Other than that I strongly recommend this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: halo3fan18
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 13, 2009 3:32 pm PT
Review:  Turns out, Fallout 3 really is the third installment of the Fallout series.
  
  Personally, I was a fan of Bethesda's "Elder Scrolls IV Oblivion". So when I saw that they were 
 coming out with this, my heart skipped a beat! I did not know much about the series itself, but 
 i understood the concept. I will review the basics: Graphics, Audio, gameplay and Misc. features. 
 The leap from swords and magic to guns and mutants was drastic, and Bethesda knew that. They had 
 to lure their audience in and keep them dumbstrucked. Not many game developers can manage to do 
 that, especially like this. Thankfully, Bethesda is great enough to give you your moneys worth 
 for their game, there is no doubt that they worked hard.
  First off, 'Fallout's' graphics were amazing, and I don't say that often. It gave you the feel 
 of the vast universe of Fallout 3. Not to mention the A. I used in the characters. I was amazed 
 in "Oblivion" when I saw there mouths matching the words as they spoke. They drastically improved 
 Fallout's character's facial features and actions. Aside from facial movements, the characters 
 had their own lives, personalities and motives. Overall, visuals deserve a 8.5.
  In addition to Visuals, Audio is also great, it makes chills run down your spine whenever you are 
 out lost in the wastes. You can hear the wind, voices a long distance away, and more. It is also 
 good because you can hear enemies when you can't see them. Audio gets a 8.0.
  Similar to Graphics and Audio, I give the gameplay a superb score as well. The campaign is very, 
 very long. But no matter what, there is always something to be discovered in the massive world 
 of Fallout 3. Campaign i straightforward, though sometimes a bit confusing on specifics. Enemies 
 are smart, Fallout 3 has the best A. I. I have ever seen. The enemies range from giant mutated rats, 
 to robots, to 7 foot tall super mutants. The missions in the campaign are challenging, it keeps 
 you motivated to shoot the enemy into pieces. It doesn't make you feel like ripping your hair out, 
 and it doesn't allow you to walk through a field of meadows with pretty-colored guns and grenades 
 falling around you for your disposal. It is survival of the fittest. Gameplay gets a 9.0. 
  
  -Valkyrie
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: lifesdrawkcab
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 13, 2009 2:59 pm PT
Review:  I was thrilled to visit the Capital Wasteland in this new installment in the Fallout universe. 
 I was all into the hype not just for the "new fallout" but because esteemed Bethesda Softworks, 
 Elder Scrolls series, were developing it.
  
  On the plus side I do believe that they have captured and fully represented the lore of the fallout 
 series. The art direction and stylized landscape sets true the chaos, cruelty, and the creativity 
 of life after nuclear devastation. The graphics are grate considering how much stuff can go on 
 in Fallout 3. Heads pop, limbs flop, lasers and explosions delight the eye in mostly smooth frame 
 rate. The occasional glitching and enemies clipping through the ground is a bit jarring but nothing 
 overwhelmingly broken.
  
  The game play is loads of fun. Very straightforward and easy to get used to and the controls are 
 mapped nicely. This feels like a shooter at times but with VATS its much more. The Valut-Tec Assisted 
 Targeting System allows you to pause the combat and choose witch enemy and witch body part to aim 
 at. Using VATS results in slow-mo death animations allowing you to saver the moment of victory 
 but be cautious because you still can take damage while dealing it out in VATS. 
  
  Lots of immersive content to keep you out and about in the world. Not as much as in other Bethesda 
 games such as Oblivion but more than enough to have you scour the wastes for untold treasure and 
 glory, or just a gory death. Not a huge verity of enemies but the classics are there from raiders 
 to super mutants. Mutated animals also roam these parts especially to the elusive and hard to kill 
 the Giant Rad-Scorpion. You will also run into some of the games hardest enemies the Deathclaws 
 and the Super-Mutant Behemoth.
  
  Fortunately you'll have a wealth of weapons and ammo types to dispatch these foes if your lucky 
 or brave enough to get them. The weapons consist of the standard assault and hunting rifles and 
 shotguns. You can get large weapons like gatling guns and missile launchers that do more damage 
 but ammo may be sparse and they can be expensive to fix. There are also unique weapons to find 
 like the Fat Man mini nuke launcher and laser and plasma weapons also there are rare weapons to 
 find as well. 
  
  Like the other Fallout games you advance in levels by gaining experience points by completing quests 
 and killing enemies. You can also get experience by hacking computers and picking locks. Raising 
 levels gives you a chance to put more points to your skills that cap at 100. With each level you 
 move up you are awarded a perk that adds specific benefits to your caricature. In the base game 
 your level caps off at 20 so chose perks and manage your skills wisely. There are skill books to 
 read that permanently boost that specific skills as well as chems you can take to temporally augment 
 your current skills or stats. Also certain armor and clothing can affect your skills as well.
 
  
  In all this game is a thrill to play for anyone who loves exploring and action and depth that some 
 games lack. The story is good but will leave you wanting more. Fortunately there's downloadable 
 content that adds more quest , armor, and enemies also another download soon to come out is sead 
 to expand the main quest line and the level cap. 
  
  This is a very good game and I recommend it to everyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lfclee
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 13, 2009 7:39 am PT
Review:  Fallout 3 is a brilliant game that actually begins with a child being born, then you live through 
 your life until you become an adult. This is like a tutorial for the game doin what Oblivion did 
 whilst you were in the jail cell.
  Whilst playing the game you roam around a huge map taking on various monsters and humans trying 
 to find your father, although the map is of a gigantuan size the game is let down by the short 
 main story line which is over very quickly. However if you steer clear of the main questline you 
 could easily be playing this game forever, another let down to the game is that you can only get 
 to level 20 and then you stop growing this means you can never max out your skills and never gain 
 all of the perks in the game. Some may say that this is a bonus meaning that you must pick wisely 
 but that would mean that there are no rewards for continuing the game after reaching this level.
 
  The game has added effects with the Radiation as you watch this as if it is a second life bar, 
 other mini add ons to the game include searching for all the locations on the map and finding the 
 20 figurines throughout the game.
  I would give this game a 9/10 as the game is brilliant but is let down by the short story and there 
 being a maximum level which gives it to many boundaries. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: petros753
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 11, 2009 7:24 pm PT
Review:  No matter how much i say to myself I'm going to stop playing Fallout 3 i always find myself Looking 
 for unique weapons or bobble heads in the next 5 hours of making that promise!
  
  What really made fallout 3 my favorite game on 360 and perhaps Ever is its immersion, and the way 
 you can just do so many quests and just when you think you have done every quest and side quest, 
 you realize Bethesda decided to create unmarked quest such as in one point of the game you might 
 come across a happy little town called Andale.... Everything seems peaceful and the residents are 
 friendly... wait, now you could just leave and continue exploring the waste since nothing seems 
 intresting... 
  
  but if you are lucky enough you will stumble onto the basement where you will find bodies of dead 
 wastelanders on the floor and fridges full of Human meat ... yeah they are CANNIBALS! and once 
 you run out of the house they will be waiting for you... now you can either slaughter them like 
 they deserve or Avoid the whole fight... before this there was Clever diolauge such as "We can't 
 wait to have you for dinner" and much more that made me realize how much Detail they put in the 
 game when bethesda knew the player could of never have found this place... yet they still Put much 
 detail.
  
  Fallout 3 succeeds in variety and overall is worth a purchase...
  
  
  you WILL find yourself playing again and again trying new things and every time you will find somthing 
 new...
  
  
  11/10
  
  -Solid smiley user reviews 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vladex00
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 10, 2009 2:16 am PT
Review:  When it was announced that Bethesda Softworks would be developing Fallout 3, longtime fans of the 
 post-apocalyptic franchise let out a groan that could seemingly be heard across the Internet. Questions 
 abounded: Would the game be isometric? Could players beat Fallout 3 solely through the use of dialogue? 
 Would it just be Oblivion with guns? Fallout forums were full of doom and gloom posts that suggested 
 Bethesda would invariably ruin the franchise. Thankfully, that couldn't have been further from 
 the truth, as Fallout 3 ended up not only being the best game of the year, but one of the finest 
 titles of this generation.
  
  Fallout 3 is a hybrid of sorts, combining RPG elements with first-person shooting action. Although 
 there are moments when you'll feel like playing the game as a standard FPS, you'll inevitably end 
 up switching to the enjoyably simple V. A. T. S. system during some combat sequences, often with bloody 
 results. While there's an entertaining story in place (as well as plenty of memorable side-quests) , 
 Fallout 3's most impressive feature is its environments, which somehow manage to make a desolate 
 nuclear wasteland look oddly beautiful. There are some who aren't happy with Bethesda's vision 
 of what a Fallout game should be, but even the most vocal complaints are being drowned out by the 
 sound of applause from the rest of the gaming community.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: unorthodox ---09
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 14, 2009 12:49 pm PT
Review:  In my opinion this game is the best RPG of this and last year its an absolute legend it has the 
 most addictive game-play since Elder Scrolls Of Oblivion IV. The only thing wrong in this game 
 is that the map and length of the game is not as big or long as Oblivion was but that do's not 
 mean it is not long its still absolutely huge and there still plenty to do even without following 
 the main story/plot. Ive never actually played a game for this long before (excluding Oblivion 
 of course) . The V. A. T. S. system is a brilliant device to be tinkered with and the perk system is 
 amazing to but there is one or two pointless perks but aside from them the others are great there 
 is one perk were you shoot a person and it turns into a gore-fest. The main story/plot is not as 
 imaginative as some other games but its still brilliant in my opinion. The massive open world soaks 
 up hours of game-play (thats a good thing though) this game is also that brilliant I am actually 
 buying the special edition version of this game even though I have had the standard since last 
 year. Two words to describe this game is freaking awesome 
::::::

::::::
UserName: krinxstound
Rating: 6.5
Date: Apr 9, 2009 7:05 am PT
Review:  Having extensively played the first innovating Fallout series, I was, unfortunately, disappointed 
 in the turn-out of this game. 
  The overall impression that Fallout 3 posed was a failed attempt to apply Bethesda's Elder Scrolls 
 IV: Oblivion's gameplay to another game. 
  Fallout 3's gameplay lacked any in-depth strategy. Its only advantage was the "open-ended" base, 
 SPECIAL, V. A. T. S. system, companions, and the ability to create your own weapons (of limited variety) , 
 which were adapted from the original series. Honestly, those were the only aspects that related 
 the game to Fallout, that and the Wasteland concept. Almost everything else differed from the original 
 Fallout gameplay. Aside from those attributes, the game bore with a repetitive cycle that made 
 it nearly impossible for one to immerse him or herself in the storyline. 
  Strong and luring at first, the storyline is what had originally drawn me to the game. However, 
 having explored it after a few hours, I quickly lost my interest. Let me elaborate on the reasons 
 for my disgruntlement. You begin by experiencing flashbacks of your character's childhood. Through 
 those memory glimpses you can set the path of your character (good, neutral, or evil) and get a 
 better understanding of how the game is played. The whole ordeal is aggravating when having to 
 go through it after every new character that you make since it is ceaselessly long. 
  After your character has matured, you are forced to escape the vault and enter the frightening 
 unknown, the Wasteland. As you scavenge the radiated regions, you encounter creatures of a deprived 
 variety. There are a discouragingly massive number of super-mutant behemoths that you will helplessly 
 run into at almost every quest and every other location. You also engage in bloodshed against raiders, 
 ghouls, mutated insects and animals, and a variety of bizarre robots. 
  Skipping ahead to the main quest, you try to find your character's father. When having found him 
 and also having mastered your character to the maximum 20th level, you are ready for the last of 
 the main quest. The main quest ends with a graphical disaster of a battle against the enemy's army, 
 which lacks intensity and imagination. Frankly, it gave the impression that the developers of Fallout 
 3 were all too anxious to be rid of the project and so butchered the ending. *SPOILER ALERT* After 
 having spent hours improving and developing your character, you find yourself in an maddening situation 
 where you are forced to sacrifice your character's life to save the populace of the Wasteland. 
 The end
  In conclusion, I would highly recommend for you to rent this game first before spending the 60$ 
 that it came out as. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Peter_Cheek
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 8, 2009 7:21 am PT
Review:  Born and raised in Vault 101. It is all you know of the world and what is outside of it.... well 
 you are not meant to know. However when your father leaves the vault without telling you. The main 
 quest begins. 
  
  Like Oblivion and Morrowind your path is your own. You can wander the waste to find side quests 
 or just explore. Just a heads up. If you do decide to stick to the main quest and go do the others 
 later. Unlike Oblivion this story ends. Why? I don't know. As far as I can tell they did not need to 
 do that but they did. So as you near the end of the main quest you may want to stop and begin free 
 roaming the waist for the other side quest and random encounters. 
  
  The game play is fine. It's a bit hard at first (at lest for me) . As you progress and lvl up it becomes 
 less difficult. You can play just straight up FPS or use the VATS system. It allows you to stop time 
 and choose who and where to shoot. One of the cooler head-shot animations in a game. 
  
  You can also build your own weapons buy finding components around the waste once you have the schematics. These 
 weapons are usually very cool and powerful. You will also need to repair weapons by using the parts 
 of other weapons you get from bodies that are similar to the weapon you want to repair. Or take 
 them to someone who can repair them for money (caps) . This gets very expensive and it is better 
 to be able to repair on the run with your own repair skills. 
  
  This is an RPG so you do have skills that you can add points to as you lvl up. Like repair, explosives, small 
 guns, large guns, energy weapons etc. You also get one perk per lvl depending on your "special" abilities. Strength, 
 perception, endurance, charisma, athletics and luck. Each perk gives you a permanent ability or 
 boost to your skills. These are very valuable so choose wisely. 
  
  You can also run across friends who will join you depending on your alignment. If you are good you 
 will only get friends that are also good. If you are evil you only get evil friends. Plus you get 
 a dog if you can fined him named dog meat who mostly dies a lot or he did for me so I made him 
 stay at home. 
  
  The story is very good. The world they have created is a tragic beauty. The game they have created 
 is worth every pinny
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: optimumbiscuit
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 8, 2009 7:05 am PT
Review:  Ok, I admit it, I Love Fallout 3. I had to wait to play it 'cos someone got me the wrong game at 
 Christmas, but it was worth the wait. The only reason it doesn't get a 10 is because it suffers 
 from a lack of variety when it comes to enemies and once you've met them all, which doesn't take 
 too long, they get a bit repetitive. However you can always just ramp up the difficulty to increase 
 the interest.
  Fallout takes the Oblivion format, which I also liked a lot, and brings it out of the dungeons 
 and dragons era into post modern shoot em up, blow em up, do what the hell you please em up that 
 still entertains after 50 hours and still has shocks and surprises lurking hidden in the game.
 
  Gameplay is smooth and uncomplicated and the VATS system is a real bonus to gameplay and entertainment.
 
  (nothing quite like seeing a 44 magnum bullet taking someones head off in slow mo, (DONT TRY THIS 
 AT HOME KIDS, and remember real guns are very bad indeed) )
  The missions can be played straight through, or you can just explore a vast world filled with interesting 
 characters and brutal fights. You can choose your destiny with the Karma system, and in game choices 
 dictate onto which path a certain encounter will play out. Though this is nothing new it is used 
 very well in the game and having played it as a good guy, I'm looking forward to playing it again 
 as an evil git who shoots first and then shoots again.
  Levelling system is great and they've thankfully got rid of the problems in oblivion where everything 
 levelled with you. so by the end you are super hard.
  There are 2 extra add ons available on xbox live, with a 3rd planned for later this year, extending 
 the gameplay further. For 30 I don't think you can get more for your money.
  I'm stopping now cos I can sense your boredom, but go and play Fallout 3 its ace 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ed-Ventures
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 8, 2009 5:04 am PT
Review:  When I first heard about this game I was really excited. So I got my parents to drive me to the 
 nearest game selling store. On the day it came out and I bought it.
  
  The game is about your character living in Vault 101 and one day your father escapes. Then nearly 
 the whole Vault is after you. Trying to kill you so you escape. As soon as you get out the Vault 
 you are blinded by light.
  
  Through the game you look for your dad doing quests for different people in order to get different 
 information. You find your dad when you come out of a simulation. Then your dad is killed by the 
 Enclave when he trys to protect you and the others.
  
  Near the end of the game there is a big war and it's what you decide to do which ends the game.
 
  
  Expansion Packs
  ---------------------------
  
  There is two expansion packs for this game out right now and there is a third coming out soon
 
  
  Weapons - The weapons in the game are all different. Some do better damage, some have better range, 
 some are faster, some are quicker reload ect.....
  
  Characters - The characters in the game have different looks and personalitys
  
  Enemies - 
 The enemies in the game are all different. For example some of them you have to shot certain places 
 to kill.
  
  Allies- In the game you can up to two characters following you and helping you. The best character 
 in my opinion Fawkes he is a super mutaunt who can talk. He has a mace to start with but when you 
 meet him the second time. He has a mini gun. You must have good karma for him to follow you.
  
  Karma - You can have good karma, bad karma or netural karma. These determin different things 
 in the game.
  
  Perks - They do different things to your character.
  
  I would recomend Fallout 3 to Oblivion fans and people who like games related to Fallout 3
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: SpawnDarkKnight
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 7, 2009 5:48 pm PT
Review:  The graphics on this game are just fantastic I love the game play and the use of V. A. T. S. it makes 
 the much more exciting. I liked the amount of freedom given to customize your character and which 
 path you could choose and how to play out the game. Fallout offers such an expansive universe where 
 you can choose what to do and how to do it, it will keep you playing and wondering what you could 
 do next. The missions in fallout 3 are not constant repeats, they vary and and depth to the game 
 play. If your looking for a great Role-Playing game then you should really look into this game 
 you will surely become addicted. Well if you want to try a good game you should really pick this 
 game up its not hard to get down the control scheme you will be playing like a pro in no time. 
 This is a solid game and its well worth the price. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: COOL_GAMER_1234
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 7, 2009 12:21 pm PT
Review:  In this review i will tell you about the 
  SETTING
  STORY
  GAMEPLAY
  GRAPHICS
  REPLAY-ABILITY
  DLC
  
  SETTING
  
  The game takes place in the year 2277 in a postapocalyptic 
 wasteland (Washington DC) filled with lots of towns, vaults, historic landmarks, ruins and subways 
 for you to explore.
  
  STORY
  
  The story starts with you being a child and living with your father in vault 101 which is an underground 
 shelter. You live there until you are 20 years old when your father suddenly leaves the vault without 
 even saying goodbye. You have no choice but to leave the safety of the vault to go find your father 
 and find out why he left. The main quest is rather short but there are lots of side quests for 
 you to do and thats what makes this game so good.
  
  GAMEPLAY
  
  The game can be played in 1st or 3rd person it also has a feature called VATS which stands for 
 Vaultec Assisted Targeting System. The game plays alot like Oblivion so much that some people call 
 this game 
  ' oblivion with guns ' anyway, the game world is huge it has hundreds of places to explore and 
 items to collect a wide selection of guns and armour. This is a great game.
  
  GRAPHICS 
  
  The graphics for fallout 3 are not as good as games like Gears Of War or Call Of Duty, but 
 for an open world game like Fallout you cant really expect that but for an RPG they are very impressive.
 
  
  REPLAY-ABILITY
  
  This is where the game really shines this game can be played over and over again. Fallout has a 
 karma system whitch means that there are lots of different ways to do quests for example are you 
 going to disarm the bomb and save the town or be an A-hole and blow it up. The amount of character 
 builds you can have are great too you could be a stealth character, a computer hacker anything 
 you want.
  
  DLC
  
  Fallout 3 has released 2 of the 3 DLC's. The first is called Operation anchorage where the player 
 enters the simulation of the liberation of Anchorage, Alaska from the Chinese. I do'nt recommend 
 this one as it is a linear 3 hour shooter and is not fun at all the only good thing about it is 
 the rewards after it so get it if you dont mind spending 5 or $10 just for the gear at the end.
 
  The second is called The Pitt it's set in the remains of Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania it's around 3 
 hours long, the same as Anchorage. This one is rather good it has a great story just not long enough, 
 new weapons, new armour and a map that you can return to once you beat it.
  
  CONCLUSION
  
  Fallout 3 is a must buy for any RPG fan the game is just so amazing and i hope i have convinced 
 you to buy if you have not already so give me a thumbs up or down if you liked my review or not 
 THANKS FOR READING. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wolfdaughter
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 7, 2009 3:01 am PT
Review:  My only beef with this masterpiece is the level cap and the ending (not being able to continue) .
 
  
  Other than that and a few very minor complaints, I have to say that Fallout 3 will forever be on 
 my list of the best games ever made.
  
  In point form:
  
  - The Wasteland is a joy to explore. Immersive, highly stylized, intricate and loaded with cookies 
 and points of interest.
  I've seldom encountered a world I loved so much to uncover.
  
  - Deep customization. 
  You can really play this game the way you want to from how you look to 
 how you interact with others, to how you survive and how you fight (or don't fight.) 
  The customization options are very abundant and
  my character ended up feeling very "tailor made".
 
  My only regret is that I couldn't continue playing with her after the dreaded end game.
  
  - NPCs are varied and have lots of personality.
  Revoltingly evil, endearingly good and downright 
 insane characters inhabit the wastelands. Not so many cookie cutters, lots of characters to meet 
 from sweet old ladies to mad scientists, with lots of dialogue options.
  
  - Too much to see on one playthrough. My husband and two of our friends all played it at the same 
 time and we all had different tales to tell, had made different discoveries and had different experiences. 
 We will all be playing through again.
  
  -Combat is just fun. Stealth, melee, guns, grenades and VATS targeting are all satisflying and 
 just plain fun.
  Watching a leg fly off or a head blow up or placing mines, hiding and watching your enemy flying 
 50 feet up is just nice. :)
  
  - Excellent dialogue and good voice acting.
  Quirky soundtrack.
  
  - Solid mythos, sweet premise presented almost flawlessly.
  
  - Difficulty 
 is adjustable. "Normal" is just right.
  
  - High detail and many cookies, laugh out loud moments and things to do and be discovered.
  
 
  I could keep going on.
  Needless to say I highly recommend this game to anyone looking for a deep, intelligent, interesting 
 and addictive game that is truly in a league of its own.
  
  10/10
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Colonelmustarrd
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 6, 2009 4:07 pm PT
Review:  Most likely THE best game i have ever played. Every aspect of it is amazing. The Graphics are absolutely 
 gorgeous, the gameplay very fun, the story (Both the Main and Miscellaneous Quests) are very interesting. 
 The Downloadable Contents were very fun and i can't wait until the next one. I really hope they 
 make more than 3!! I would buy all of them no matter the cost. Really, buy this game, I couldn't 
 think any higher of it. I love it!!! I have a problem with the old Fallout fans who hate this game, 
 because I really can't see why anyone couldn't love it. This is a very unconventional RPG, yes, 
 but it's better than i would ever expect! This game combines RPG, First Person Shooter and Third 
 person shooter all into one beautiful gift to humanity. I am purely addicted to the game. I actually 
 think i may have a problem!!!! Thank you Bethesda!!!! Best game Ever!!!!!!!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: liestolz
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 6, 2009 9:34 am PT
Review:  Incredible game, good grapichs and good gameplay.
  1 thing though, make a patch that enables gameplay after you finish.
  
  Very realistic, hard 
 to find ammo, which is nice to not remind you that your playing a game.
  
  A bit of traveling could be boring, maybe a mount or two?
  
  Hmmm what else? Can be a bit boring 
 underground, all dark and stuff. Could be a bit more connected and traveling in the waistland.
 
  
  Maybe another house or two?
  
  Maybe add another radio station or some new songs too?
  
  I think that maybe the childhood 
 could be a bit more longer? Not like 5 mins.
  
  Could be more different creatures maybe? Would love to have some new companions too.
  
  To 
 anyone that is buying Fallout 3, Charon is a nice follower.
  
  Some buggs and glitches, but hopefully that will be fixed.
  
  But all in all, this game is 
 worth buying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sanfordrg52
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 4, 2009 9:19 pm PT
Review:  This game is a unique combination of genres and styles. A heavy RPG mixture with unique shooter 
 and strategy elements. I felt as if I was playing a much more grand and beautiful version of Mass 
 Effect and BioShock. The mix of good and evil, multi-questing, and character development make this 
 game stand out for 2008. I am now just getting to play it and it is April 2009. There has been 
 no recent games that can match the unique qualities of this game. You get more than your investment 
 since it is endless. I will probably play this game into 2010. It is not surprising that this game 
 was in development for many years. Unlike TOO HUMAN which was quite a let-down, this game was worth 
 the hype. The detail was phenomenal and the story was compelling and is still keeping my interest. 
 This is not a shooter by any means, but a unique platform RPG that excels at driving you forward. 
 The game guides can not even prepare you for ther enumerable permutations of actions and story 
 development. I hope that there will be a continuation of this IP. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KingKisuke
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 4, 2009 6:04 pm PT
Review:  Fallout 3 takes you to a post-nuclear war wasteland of what was downtown Washington D. C. in this 
 terrific installment to the late 1990's PC series. The series was taken from Interplay by Bethesda 
 Softworks, the creators of the award-winning The Elder Scrolls series. Fallout 3 gives you more 
 than your $60 is worth.
  
  
  
  GAMEPLAY
  Fallout 3 is simply brilliant when it comes to gameplay. Not only that, but you can get more than 
 a hundred hours of gameplay in one play-through. It combines the experience of a First Person Shooter 
 and a RPG all together. You travel through and open world, completing the Main Quests and Miscellaneous 
 Quests if you want more fun, achievements/trophies, and XP. As you play through the game, you can 
 get an extremely wide variety of armor and weapons to carry in your inventory, and other items 
 that you can sell for the game's currency, Bottle Caps. With Bottle Caps, you can purchase goods 
 from merchants or in stores across the Wasteland. You will encounter many enemies, such as Feral 
 Ghouls in the subways and Super Mutants downtown. When battling enemies, you can use Action Points 
 in V. A. T. S. (Vault-Tec Assisted Targeting System) . When using V. A. T. S., you can target certain 
 people (and boy parts when using a ranged weapon) to shoot at, in slow motion of course.
  
  
  
  Unfortunately, Fallout 3 does not support any type of multiplayer. Traveling the wastes 
 with a buddy would probably be fun, but at least we have a fantastic single player mode. NOTE: 
 Interplay is working on a MMORPG project for Fallout.
  GAMEPLAY SCORE: 9.95/10
  
  
  STORY
  If you like a good story, you'll love Fallout 3. There's a sci-fi plot, expanding as you 
 go through the Main Quest, and even more for the Miscellaneous Quests that you participate in. 
 Fallout 3 delivers one of the best sci-fi stories in a video game ever. So far, that's wonderful 
 gameplay, and a wonderful story. Could it get much better?
  STORY SCORE: 9.85/10
  
  
  GRAPHICS
  Yeah, you guessed it. Fallout 3 has beautiful graphics. Washington D. C. looks absolutely 
 stunning in this game. To go with that, there's highly detailed items and character models. Character 
 animation is also fantastic, despite some animation glitches every now and then, but everything 
 else makes up for that. Some characters could look a little strange in dialogue, and many Super 
 Mutants look the same, so that could use a little work in the future installments, but it's all 
 beautiful if you put those few flaws aside.
  GRAPHICS SCORE: 9.9/10
  
  
  THE SMALL STUFF
  
  CONTROLS: Well, there's nothing absolutely wonderful about the controls, 
 but they all work great. You can easily use the smooth controls in the game with no problem, but 
 you might sometimes shoot instead of activating V. A. T. S. accidentally if you're not paying attention 
 at all to where your fingers are. So, there's really no problem with the controls.
  CONTROLS SCORE: 9.5/10
  
  SOUND: The sounds are pretty great, as well. Sound effects are very 
 nice, with terrific voice acting, too. Only real problem is that you'll surely recognize some of 
 the same voices throughout the game.
  SOUND SCORE: 9.7/10
  
  REPLAY: You'll definitely want to play the game again, unless you get bored of it (which you won't) 
 or don't have the time. You can get achievements/trophies for making different choices that affect 
 your karma. For example, you get different achievements for reaching three levels with a certain 
 type of karma. You can also play Miscellaneous Quests that you missed or collect bobble heads that 
 you didn't get when you played the first time. You can often make different choices that affect 
 the Quests as well. Unfortunately, completing the game doesn't really unlock anything.
  REPLAY VALUE: Very high
  
  NITPICKS: When I played the PS3 version of the game, it would freeze 
 every now and then.
  "DOESN'T BUG YA" SCORE: 9.87/10
  
  
  OVERVIEW
  
  SCORE (AVERAGE) : 9.8 out of 10
  GUILTY PLEASURE SCORE: 10 out of 10
  HONORS: 2008 HSGA: Best 
 Multi-platform, 2008 HSGA: Game of the Year, HalfSwiss Medal of Honor: Best Game of All-time 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Coco_pierrot
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 3, 2009 6:00 pm PT
Review:  Fallout 3 ... what a very surprising game ! I didn't play Oblivion but I will. Well for Fallout 
 I was very please by how it plays , by its graphics and by the world for itself.
  
  I spend around 50 hours in the game right now. Sometime I wasn't so shure which of the mission 
 is related to the main story ( well for maybe 10 hours ) . 
  
  Since it is a RPG in a first person view, the fights are not very hard but it suit the game perfectly. 
 Also, the first person view is the way to go to be immerse, to feel like you are into that devastated 
 world.
  
  My only grip on the game is ... there is no weather !!! but it makes sense since the grass and 
 trees are all dead.
  
  One more thing. You don't need to have XBL to have a chance of getting all the achievements.
 
  
  So in all, if you are looking for a intense game filled with many hours of gameplay, this is the 
 one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chrlywtrfall
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 3, 2009 2:41 pm PT
Review:  The good
  
  Fallout 3 has it all. Graphics and sound are top notch. It has a ton of content that you can get 
 lost in. The combat system is both accessible and satisfying. It has one of the highest replay 
 values of any RPG. You'll beat the game and want to turn around and start over. to do everything 
 different. I'm not going to spoil any story lines, but there are at least two different ways to 
 do everything, even the smallest of the side quests. The irreversible consequences your in-game 
 decisions produce give Fallout 3 a very mature and realistic feel.
  
  The bad
  
  AI is a little silly and sometimes unrealistic. You have to buy new content. You get charged for 
 the game and your xbox live subscription. Being nickeled and dimed for new content seems unfair.
 
  
  Well altogether I give it a 9. There could have been more free content. Bethesda knows it and so 
 do our wallets. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DkzH
Rating: 6.5
Date: Apr 1, 2009 7:16 am PT
Review:  For me, this game is an epic fail. I love RPGs, and I have played a lot of Oblivion back in the 
 days, but this game doesn't really fit me. For me, this game is just an RPG with guns, and that's 
 not a good mixture. The story isn't really that great, the gameplay sucks and the graphics look 
 dated. I know a lot of people disagree with me, but somebody had to say it: This game fails.
  
  There is though, a great verity of weapons and equipments. But this can't make up for the clumsy 
 graphics, the many bugs and frustrating story. And 1/5 of the game is spent in "the underground", 
 i can't remember what is is called, but the time spent down there is just a complete waste of time, 
 and they should have left that part out of the game.
  
  Even though this game fits a lot of you people out there, it was just a major disappointment to 
 me. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: MCBGamer
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 31, 2009 11:02 pm PT
Review:  You're born in the vault, You die in the Vault. Not for you at least. At age 19 your father escapes 
 Vault 101, where the door never opens, and chaos begins to infects the vault dwellers. Escape into 
 the wild world and begin your quest to find your dad.
  
  Fallout 3 has earned it's self a new genre of it's own FPPAS  
 Roam around the ruin of Washington DC A. K. A The Capital Wasteland and fight Super Mutants, Raiders, 
 Over Sized Bugs and crazy animals. Experience combat like never before using V. A. T. S, target specific 
 limbs and blast them off with over thirty different weapons. There is over one hundred hours of 
 game play in this game, heaps of quests and a vast environment to explore keeps you entertained. 
 Since it's launch Fallout 3 has all ready had two DLCs and with a promise of more there plenty 
 to do.
  
  A highly recommended game 10/10 from me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SALTYJos
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 31, 2009 4:58 pm PT
Review:  Fallout 3 is by far one of the best games to come out in the past several years. The story is so 
 interesting and so captivating that you wont want to stop playing for hours on end. Here are the 
 good things about the game, and then the bad things about it.
  
  Good
  
  -The story is very strong. You will want to keep playing to find out what happens next in the fast 
 paced story. The plot is full of twists and turns and keeps you wanting to know more. The first 
 time I played through I just played story missions because they were so interesting. I would advise 
 you however not to just follow the story. Fallout 3 has so much more to offer then a great story.
 
  
  -The paths between going good, bad, or neutral are very interesting and do offer very different 
 stories. When you are talking to a character you can choose from several options of what to say. 
 Not all the options are the nicest things. You also effect the story and environment greatly when 
 you go good, bad, or neutral. On the radio, the host Three Dog will either praise or despise some 
 actions you have made in the game. If you choose to save a town from a nuclear weapon you wont 
 hear the end of how amazing you are. However if you blow it up.....
  
  -The VATS system is so fun. Nothing is more entertaining then shooting off a Super Mutants head 
 in slow motion. It fills one with a great sense of accomplishment.
  
  -There is TONS to explore in Fallout 3. You can explore multiple Vaults in the world. You can explore 
 several towns, some better then others. You can find numerous side quests in the game that will 
 keep you playing far after the story is over.
  
  And now the bad...
  
  -There is only one thing that I did not like about this game. The first time you play through, 
 it may take you a while to get in to it. When I bought the game I thought it would be fun right 
 off that bat, and with the first few hours I thought it was a waste of money. However, soon after 
 I started getting better weapons, and started figuring out how to play the game, I fell in love 
 with it. So if you start off not impressed, give it some time. The game will capture you soon enough.
 
  
  So in the end, Fallout 3 is the nearly perfect game. Only on hitch in the game keeps it from perfection. 
 It is a must buy and if you feel a little uneasy about buying a game, just rent it and give it 
 a try. I promise you wont be disappointed. I wasn't. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IBLEEDBLUE33
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 31, 2009 1:00 pm PT
Review:  I was itching to play this game after playing Oblivion. I mean, Oblivion with guns in a post apocalyptic 
 United States. Count me in, this going to be the first 10 I have given a 360 game. Well not so 
 fast it did have its problems but in the end I came away mostly satisfied and Fallout ranks among 
 the 360's best.
  
  I hate to start out negative but I want to go ahead and get it out of the way. The world to me 
 while awesome just didn't quite immerse me into it like Oblivion. There really is nothing to obtain 
 outside like in Oblivion where you could find rare flowers and items scattered throughout. Also 
 the world seems more bland and rehashed environments. I know it is after the apocalypse and everything 
 is dead but I would have liked to have seen a more sense of dread. There was just not enough different 
 things going on in the world. Don't get me wrong there are still a few such as seeing the Washington 
 Monument or entering into Lincoln Memorial. Those were very much WOW moments. But alot of the subway 
 dungeons are just rehashed and start to become very monotonous when exploring. The world itself 
 just doesn't seem to have the overall size that Oblivion had. Also where as in Oblivion you could 
 go anywhere without getting confused on how to get there. Not so mush in Fallout, there are places 
 in and around the city that are blocked off and you must find different routes to get to your destination. 
 This can become tedious and frustrating. Also the level cap is 20 and you never feel like you get 
 to max out your character's potential. I hated this more than anything because I was at level 20 
 and still had like 10 missions to complete. This took away from the overall experience and the 
 last half of the game in my opinion. I hear they are going to raise the level cap to 30 through 
 download which will be nice. But that is enough complaints because I did absolutely love this game.
 
  
  There are better parts of Fallout that surpass Oblivion. The combat for one is mush more enjoyable. 
 Using the V. A. T. S. system you can pause time and target specific body parts and blow off heads, 
 limbs, etc. The regular combat while not as good as FPS games is still better than the swordplay 
 of Oblivion. Also Fallout has a better overall story than Oblivion. It is by no means revolutionary 
 but it is better than I thought it would be. It begins at your birth and at 16 you emerge from 
 Vault 101 and this is really neat when you get your first taste of the post apocalyptic world. 
 The way you level up is better in this game picking a certain perk and then adding points to your 
 weaponry, scientific abilities, sneak, etc. There is also quite an arsenal that you can mount up 
 in this game from assault rifles, mini guns, rocket launchers, etc. The good thing about the world 
 not being as big and not quite as much to do is a player won't quite feel so overwhelmed like in 
 Oblivion. I admit I was skeptical to play another game by Bethesda because of all the time consumption 
 that went into Oblivion. I put almost 200 hours into that game and about 60 into Fallout. So Fallout 
 is more accessible.
  
  Overall this is a wonderful game and Bethesda keeps putting games out that no other developer can 
 match in terms of scale and immersion into a gaming world. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Firenzial
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 31, 2009 3:36 am PT
Review:  The game was magnificent long but so boring at times to. But its awsome in so many ways going to 
 the whitehouse killing raiders and murdering mirelurks blowing up citys, talking to trees and even 
 getting followers but there are also a few glitches but i haven, t noticed many. that makes it lose 
 some points because i ended up going through the floor so i had to start again but other than that 
 the game was good but not the best thing i have ever played its not for everyone. but if u have 
 some time on you're hands and you dont get bored easily i suggest that you go out and buy it. or 
 rent it and see if you like it or not. and if u get it on the xbox 360 u get the advantage of being 
 able to get the 2 expansions The Pitt and Operation Anchorage for some extra microsoft points. 
 so yeh thats my review on the game Go out and get i you wont regret it.
  
  
  xD
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: towely62
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 30, 2009 11:48 pm PT
Review:  ive been playing this game for its release and only till now have thought of writing a review. 
 to tell u the truth i wasnt sure about this game even after watching previews and trailers but 
 i had a couple of bucks in my pocket so i said wth ill try it. best choose i made i love even about 
 this game fun , funny as some times when u fool around following the story was fun and i thought 
 it was a little short but good thing i saved the game before the last mission in a seperate saving 
 file so i can just go around discovering new things without finishing it ive see all vaults some 
 crazy as h3ll a little advise max out your lockpicking and computer hacking helps u get into places 
 hide in the vaults. dlc O. A. is a little bugy i havent tried the pitt im getting that next and 
 broken steel should be just as good 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gangstaphone27
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 28, 2009 8:30 pm PT
Review:  this game was awsome i played it twice and i still find new things the only thing thats wrong with 
 the game is that it ends and theres a cap level but thay are fixin' that right now oh and i wish 
 it looked a little more like what DC looks like in real life because i wanted to find my house 
 in the game. i am from DC and im glad that the game takes place there. i love the graphics the 
 game play the story and every thing else buy it and tha DCLs a modern classic as good as the first 
 two. Bethesda knows how to make game and im glad they do. if theres a forth game i think bethesda 
 sould make it. i really liked the DCLs they had great side storys and always made me want to play 
 more. i love VATS i think that is the best thing in the game i love the weapons the gore the character 
 details the variety of things you can do in the game all the quests the items and every thing else 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LDiablo123
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 25, 2009 10:19 pm PT
Review:  Well i had mixed thoughts about whether or not to buy this game. I thought it seemed to much like 
 oblivion and those games have just too much for me. However, i heard a lot of good things so i 
 got it. I played it thinking I'm gonna like this game. I was half right i guess. There was a lot 
 to this game. Almost too much for me. I admit, if i had more time in the day to play this i might 
 have liked it more, but there was just too much to do for me. You go through a whole process of 
 making your character which at first you really don't know what you want yet cause you haven't 
 tried anything yet so how are you supposed to know. Another thing is when you start the story i 
 felt like i was walking through a spiked hallway with no lights. Just kept getting hurt and i had 
 no idea what was going on. I think that you would be better off getting a different game than this 
 unless you have the time to spend playing this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarkTwistedFool
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 25, 2009 4:44 pm PT
Review:  I've never been a huge fan of real time or first-person rpg's but after trying the game out at 
 a friend's house I decided to give it a shot. Setting aside the immediate red ring of death I recieved 
 I eventually got emmersed in the world of post-apocolyptic D. C..
  
  I liked very much the style of game-play; much to my own surprise. The V. A. T. S. system makes it 
 a lot easier on a turn-based veteran like myself. The level up system could use some expansion 
 in my opinion but I liked the way that the skills and feat... er, perks worked. The music was mostly 
 non-existent or too quiet to be noticed; this was fine considering how it made the environment 
 feel a bit more realistic. The variables provided by your variable actions made the game very interesting 
 and allowed you to be yourself and really choose exactly how you wanted to play the game; this 
 was the designers main goal and kudos to you on that.
  
  My major problem with the game, and RPG, is that it has a bit of a weak story; or moreso that the 
 story goes way too fast. I spent a lot of time doing side-quests, leveling up and generally just 
 exploring before I ever got to the main quest. When I did decide to follow up on the story I found 
 that I was done in a matter of a few more hours... to me this is a big dissapointment in an RPG.
 
  
  So the game gets an 8 from me. Good, but not perfect. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: game_god_
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 25, 2009 1:05 pm PT
Review:  Well, let me just start by saying i wasn't expecting this kind of improvement. Fallout 1 and 2 
 were amazing, but were much different. I expected Fallout 3 to be along the same lines, but mildly 
 diminished. Boy was i wrong...
  
  I didn't play it until it had been out for some time, and i kept hearing how amazing it was and 
 a lot of my hard to please gamer friends were coming up to me telling me i must own this game. 
 So i bought it and played it and i fell in love.
  
  From the beginning, the game is incredibly interesting and unique. I thought the story was completely 
 relevant and interesting. Right at the beginning, being born and choosing your gender and name, 
 this game was setting the bar unthinkably high. Basically, the pepboy, the GOAT, the mutants, the 
 cities, the fight style, and the quests make for a game that is unlike any other and will be copied 
 off of for some time like games like Sims, Grand Theft Auto, and Need For Speed.
  
  Fallout 3 took RPGs to a different level. It encompassed a realistic situation with realistic aspects 
 and threw it all into an RPG. There's just those select few titles that gamers must play and experience, 
 and this is one of them. That is all you need to know about this game, anything more would take 
 away from the experience of playing the game and witnessing yourself.
  
  Fallout 3 is a must play, must own. And an absolute must for any RPG gamer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kholdstare61
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 24, 2009 9:59 pm PT
Review:  Fallout 3 Review (3/25/09)
  
  Pros:
  
  Massive- While not as large as Oblivion's world was, Fallout 3 is still absolutely massive. Along 
 with the main quest you have numerous side quests which should last you over 30 hours if you choose 
 to take your time with it. These quests are full of variety, ranging from simple fetch quests to 
 blowing up the enemy base with a giant, Anti-Communist robot at your side.
  
  Combat with VATS- VATS, which lets you target specific enemy body parts with your weapons, refines 
 the combat from Oblivion. Nothing is as satisfying as leveling up to gain the Bloody Mess perk 
 and blow off an enemy's head to watch it fly off and the blood splatter.
  
  Choices- Unlike most games where the choices you make are pretty black and white and don't really 
 affect the world much (see Fable II) , the choices in Fallout 3 basically defines what you do in 
 the game. Save a town from being blown up by a nuke and you'll be hailed as a hero of that town 
 and frequently receive gifts from its inhabitants. Or you can just blow it up and gain lots of 
 money.
  
  Perfect Atmosphere- The dreary, barren wasteland, the savage raiders wandering around, and the 
 vintage songs from the 30s and 40s do nothing short of truly immersing you in the world.
  
  Replayability- Fallout just inspires you to replay it over again once you beat it. Play through 
 it once as a good guy saving all who needs rescue and only level up your stats and perks for heavy 
 weapons. Now play through it again as an evil slaver leveling up your speech, sniping, and stealth 
 skills.
  
  Modding Community (PC Version) - Just like the other Bethesda Softworks games like Oblivion and 
 Morrowind, Fallout is perfect for the modding community. User-created quests, items, weapons, perks 
 truly make this game shine for multiple playthroughs. 
  
  Liberty Prime- The coolest giant robot in the history of video games. It's the reason you should 
 be buying this game. 
  
  
  
  Cons:
  
  Animation- Just like the other Bethesda Softworks titles, the animation on this game is terrible. 
 The way characters walk and move in their clunky fashion, especially once switching to third person 
 mode, destroys the immersive feel of everything else.
  
  Poor Coding- This game is (at the time I wrote this review) still filled with bugs and glitches, 
 some which can be game breaking. Hopefully they will be eventually fixed by Bethesda, or at least 
 the modding community like Oblivion.
  
  Combat without VATS- VATS relies on a collection of action points to use, once you run out of those, 
 you have to wait for them to refill, effectively bringing you back into the clunky combat of Oblivion. 
 Although it's not that big of a deal, and thankfully the action points recharge fast enough. 
 
  
  No Modding Community (360/PS3 Version) - Unfortunately, the modding community usually defines games 
 made by Bethesda Softworks (see Oblivion) . Without the ability to download new user-created quests, 
 items, weapons, perks, etc., I'd have to give the 360/PS3 versions an A instead of an A+.
  
  Overall: A+ for PC, A for 360/PS3 (An amazing RPG, my personal Game of the Year for 2008)
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: spenceslivn
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 24, 2009 7:32 pm PT
Review:  I am not going to lie. I hated the beginning of this game. It felt akwardly slow, I didnt care 
 about the "childhood" fazes, and some of the tasks were painfully dull (However the G. O. A. T. was 
 hilarious) . Once I got into the wastes I was lost and confused and that was annoying, and then 
 the game got going.
  
  I am a huge fan of Bethesda. From Morrowind to Oblivion they have always made great games. So I 
 was really worried about this start to the game. However once the narratives began to shape up 
 and all of the vast surroundings and sidequests became more clear the fun just kept on coming. 
 VATS is a good new system for their games, except that the cut scenes repeat over and over and 
 take way to long to finish at times. A destroyed D. C. makes for a great setting, but traveling 
 through endless metros and a confusing navigational system hold that back slightly. To get from 
 point A to point B the map would tell me to go through the entire DC metro line before arriving 
 at a place right next to where I already was.
  
  All in all; Great story, plenty of great places to explore and sidequests to do or not do, I agree 
 with Gamespot, for once, with a 9.0 out fo 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: theevans
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 24, 2009 6:32 am PT
Review:  Fallout 3.
  
  Imagine living your life in a world after the end of the world. A baron wasteland of charred tree 
 stumps, skeleton buildings and radioactive water. No friends. No family. Just you. That's that 
 happy premise for Bethesda's latest open-world role playing game, Fallout 3. By its very nature, 
 it takes some time to get into the story and functionality of this massive game. It begins with 
 your birth in an underground nuclear shelter called The Vault. From the beginning you are asked 
 to make choices that will govern your adult personality years later. Are you a good kid or a bad 
 kid? Fallout 3 is all about choices. For anyone who has played Oblivion: The Elder Scrolls, you 
 will find many similarities. The way you interact with people and the tasks to decide to undertake 
 will shape your experience in the world. This is mine:
  
  Gameplay. This is a very deep and comprehensive RPG that totes a bit of a learning curve. Those 
 of you that have played other 1st person games will have no trouble moving about and utilizing 
 the basic functions of things around you. Walk with the left stick and look with the right has 
 been a staple for years. You can jump, open things, put up your dukes and select your words with 
 the 4 assigned buttons. It is possible to switch between 1st person and 3rd person view via the 
 LB button. The navigational hub of the game is your "Pip Boy", a small computer attached to your 
 right arm on your 10th birthday. Once activated, it looks like a mini-Comedore64 complete with 
 green screen. From here you will be able to see all those pertinent pieces of information about 
 your status. As you explore the world you will come across items that you can pick up. This inventory 
 is accounted for on your Pip Boy; as well as your skills, health, mission log and map. It takes 
 a little getting used to navigating the many screens, and some of the text is hard to read given 
 the font's retro aesthetic. 
  Walking around feels a little too fluid and smooth. Switching to 3rd person view reveals how much 
 walking looks like skating in this game. For all the rough terrain you will encounter, there is 
 never any climbing or maneuvering which would make it feel a bit more realistic. Having a conversation 
 with someone is like reading a choose-your-own-adventure novel, in which your selections dictate 
 not only what you will do next, but affect that person's feeling about you. 
  Weapons are a big part of surviving in the harsh post-apocalyptic wasteland. Not everyone you meet 
 are nice people. You'll cross paths with drug dealers, scavengers, wild dogs and mutated monsters 
 - some of which you can avoid. Other's you will have to deal with violently. Depending on your 
 skills in various arenas of combat, you will succeed and fail. Fallout 3 urges you to find your 
 style of play. Using a knife, baton, saw or gun will be necessary from time to time. You can map 
 up to 8 weapons to the directional pad via hot-keys. The game allows you to fire your weapons in 
 2 different ways. The first is your standard aim with the right stick and fire with a trigger. 
 This method is extremely clunky and hard to aim with. You'll find it frustrating to aim and hit 
 an enemy square in the head and have no reaction. On a number of firefights I was landing shots 
 to the head and body without any response. The other way to use weapons is the new lock-on method. 
 With a click of the RB, time freezes, bringing up a schematic of your foe which allows you to target 
 specific body parts. The probability of making the shot depends on the difficulty or landing your 
 bullet on a specific body part. It also accounts for your skills with that particular type of weapon 
 and the distance between you and them. It is a novel idea and the execution is very good. Once 
 you lock in your shot the camera switches to a cinematic slow-motion 3rd person view. A number 
 of times this camera was blocked by an environmental element like a wall or a big rock. 
  There is a lot of variety to what you can do in Fallout 3, but without the polish you'll find a 
 lot of your actions taking you out of the experience. 6.5/10.
  
  Graphics. The visuals in Fallout 3 are great for the most part. The first hour of your journey 
 takes place in a dark, grizzly fallout shelter. Many of the hallways and adjacent rooms look far 
 too similar. Visually, it is not a great way to start a game. One of the big drawbacks of the game 
 is the poor sense of direction and location as you move through the environments. The labyrinth 
 shelter is the first example in the game that proves to be frustrating figuring out where you need 
 to go. The Pip Boy map is not much help either. You can mark a waypoint, but finding that direction 
 as you move through an environment is still too much of a challenge. This brings up what I feel 
 is a blessing and curse to Fallout 3's visual style. The pre-war art direction is nicely inspired, 
 but the execution of key elements - like the retro-fitted Pip Boy, is annoying to use. I much preferred 
 the clean inventory management, and worldly navigation system in Oblivion. 
  Character models are slightly better than they were in Oblivion, but still not up to par with most 
 of today's games. You'll find more variety to the faces of the people you meet, but each one looks 
 very robotic in their mannerisms and facial expressions. The animations need work. 
  The interiors leave a lot to be desired. Many of the underground locations are visually recycled. 
 It is very easy to get lost because things look so much the same as one another. 
  Fallout 3's biggest strength presents itself the moment you leave the "safety" of the shelter and 
 venture out into the the open world. The stark reality hits you immediately with a wide vista of 
 grassless wasteland, peppered with destroyed landmarks and rotted highways. The draw distance is 
 remarkable, keeping you immersed in the lonely, frightening massive world. A decaying tower on 
 the horizon might take you half a day to reach (by the game's internal clock) - which really gives 
 the game some epic scope. Day transitions into night with seamless effects. The lighting looks 
 authentic and natural. The dust blowing across the plains is mesmerizing. The haze of a distant 
 ruin is fantastic. Bethesda has done a great job putting you in the middle of this disturbing environment. 
 
  The graphics in Fallout 3 are excellent. More work needs to be done to give the NPC's in the game 
 a little more "life", and some of the interiors could benefit from more variety and personality. 
 Ultimately this is a good looking open world game. 8.3/10
  
  Sound. Again, it is hard not to compare this game to its ancestor, Oblivion. There are a lot of 
 similarities between the two. First of is the music. Most of the time you'll be treated to atmospheric 
 symphony that is subtle and moody. The soft ambient background themes fit the game nicely. In keeping 
 up with the nuclear age-inspired visuals, Fallout 3 adds in a number of haunting pre-1950's tunes 
 that juxtapose the world around you. The result is a bit of an unsettling creepy feeling - much 
 like that in Bioshock.
  The sound effects are good too. Whistling wind, dripping drains and other ambient noises accent 
 the atmosphere with appropriate sonic authenticity. 
  The spoken dialogue between your character and NPC's is much improved over that in Oblivion. There 
 is a greater variety of voice actors that help to give each person you meet, a unique persona. 
 Still, you will find some repetitive dialogue from passer-bys as you stroll through villages or 
 encounter resistance. 
  Bethesda has done a fine job making the world of Fallout 3 sound almost as good as it looks. 8/10
 
  
  Overall. As you play though Fallout 3, you cant help by make references to Oblivion. Substitute 
 a beautiful medieval land for a post-apocalypic one and you have pretty much the same game. The 
 addition of the targeting system and accompanying dramatic kill cams is nice, but all in all there 
 wasn't much in Fallout 3 to make me feel connected. I never felt like I had a purpose and thus 
 I wasn't drawn to do much more than stroll around, kill a few bad guys and find what I needed to 
 survive. Fallout 3 is well done, but only for those gamers who are seeking a lengthy stay in a 
 depressing world. Final rating = 7.1/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xman_mha
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 23, 2009 4:47 pm PT
Review:  Well worthwhile once you get used to the Pip Boy interface and the various options and various 
 implications for the games elements you have control over in the game. Initially played whole game 
 on 'Very Easy' to get the hang of things. After that played again straight away at 'Normal' level'. 
 Execellent and quite enjoyable, in that I could still explore and interact with enviroments on 
 the map not previously visited. Great game - especially the VATS weapon targeting system. That 
 design in itself makes the game at lot more entertaining in that you are not pressed within a millisecond 
 to make some rediculously complex decision between weapons etc ... Likely to influence game developers 
 and designers to come ... I also founds the autosave options and abilitiy to save itself very handy 
 for trying out high risk scenarios ... and learning things you may not have been able to otherwise. 
 While that in itself is not quite so unique, it does add to the game supporting its overall characterists 
 well. Is rezally is import to get you head aroudn the significant of the points system and what 
 impact and effect their weighting has on your game play and weapon use and gaming experience in 
 general. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: white_sox
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 21, 2009 4:51 am PT
Review:  Fallout 3 does more than place you in an intricate wasteland; it makes you feel it. The game comes 
 to life with its fully detailed world consisting of some of the most unforgettable side quests 
 in recent memory. The world of Fallout is full of life, choice, and adventure just waiting to be 
 unraveled by the next unsuspecting wanderer.
  
  Starting in vault 101 is just the beginning of Fallout 3 as every adventurer eventually breaks 
 out in search of his or her father. The first emergence from the vault is slightly overwhelming 
 when you first look upon the vast world in front of you. In every direction a beautifully constructed 
 wasteland awaits you. It's your choice how you want to craft this world and the citizens that reside 
 in it.
  
  The main quest in Fallout 3 isn't necessarily it's strongest card. It will take you around 8 to 
 10 hours depending on your skills and decisions you choose. The main story's missions are relatively 
 weak and repetitive, but some neat quests like "Tranquility Lane" sprinkle in some much needed 
 variety. The story is nice, but it never really evolves too far and it kind of collapses before 
 it can get going. The game contains a couple alternate endings. None of them are very satisfying 
 and they all leave you with a forgettable ending. Luckily, Fallout 3 has plenty of things to do 
 in between. Some really creative and off the wall ideas make there way into Fallout 3 and they 
 work well. From finding the Oasis or solving the mystery of Rivet City, there are plenty of quests 
 worth your time.
  
  Besides the main story and side quests, there are plenty of other things to do. Fallout 3 has a 
 plethora of weapons and explosives from a basic 9mm to something as extravagant as a Fat Man, which 
 sends nukes storming at your enemy. You can also create 7 different weapons; including dart guns, 
 powerful grenades, and a "Rock-it-Launcher". Many of these guns are creative, useful, and just 
 a blast to use. Finding bobbleheads also help and add to your character's stats and many of them 
 bring you to some eventful locations. It would be easy to put 40-50 hours into Fallout 3 without 
 finding or seeing everything.
  
  Choice is heavily expressed while roaming the wasteland, and to give players a moral backing the 
 karma system is used. Almost every choice you make effects your karma rating. Both sides of the 
 coin offer benefits. You will have a different experience with the game pending on how you treat 
 the NPCs. It is also balanced out and story specific situations offer a bigger bearing than stealing 
 something or your actions toward a random NPC.
  
  Fallout 3 ditches the isometric view of previous PC iterations. Instead, if you have played any 
 of the previous Elder Scrolls games you will feel pretty familiar with the combat. Your character 
 moves and controls similar. Switching from first person and third person perspectives is still 
 available, but you'll find combat and exploring more comfortable in first person. The newest addition 
 of guns and explosives are obvious fresh choices that fit into the world. The combat is a bit clunky 
 at first, but it works for what it is. It's pretty easy to get a hang of once you spend some time 
 with it, but don't expect it to be as fluid as a FPS.
  
  To perhaps try to recapture the turn based style of older Fallout games, Fallout 3 introduces the 
 V. A. T. S. system. This new feature allows the player to press a button, RB on the 360, and the game 
 play completely stops and it instantly targets a nearby enemy. V. A. T. S. gives you a full body spread 
 of the enemy and the chance you will hit that specific area. V. A. T. S. can be used for tactical 
 purposes or just to get rid of one enemy while trying to focus on another. Of course, V. A. T. S. 
 can't be used all the time as the player is given an action gauge that makes it so the system can't 
 be spammed. It doesn't hurt that V. A. T. S. looks awesome and the cinematic view when pulling off 
 a kill shot is amazing. Used correctly, V. A. T. S. is one of the most unique and best implemented 
 systems this generation.
  
  Leveling in Fallout 3 is efficient and very accessible. Leveling points come from defeating enemies, 
 picking locks, and hacking computers. Every level gives you a set of points to apply to the character's 
 stats. There are a variety of skills to apply to your character. These include combat specific 
 skills and other skills that can effect your character's other attributes. Perks are also achieved 
 after the player receives a new level. These perks can be combat upgrades, V. A. T. S. upgrades, or 
 something a little more absurd. It may be hard to narrow down which specific perk you want, but 
 there are plenty to choose from pending on playing style.
  
  Graphically Fallout 3 can be kind of a two face. The game itself is beautiful in stills and runs 
 smoothly while roaming the wasteland. Draw distances and attention to detail in both clothing and 
 weapons are two of the game's most impressive assets. The art style used is also very original 
 and works flawlessly in the game's darker theme. However, when there are many enemies on screen 
 the frames per second can be torn down drastically. Also some crashing appeared from time to time. 
 Luckily, an autosave system is implemented so no major two or three hour sessions would be completely 
 lost. These issues aren't usually too bad and rarely ruin the experience.
  
  Bethesda made a big leap in the sound design from 2006's The Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion to Fallout 
 3. The voice acting is much improved. It is also more varied and there is many more distinct and 
 well rounded characters that lend their talents to Fallout 3. This may seem like an insignificant 
 enhancement, but these small details help bring the game to life. The radio in Fallout 3 is also 
 a welcome new feature. It's a bit thin in content and you're mostly forced to pick between two 
 or three stations, but it helps eliminate the silence while exploring. Three Dog, the DJ of one 
 of the radio stations, adds some much needed humor. His witty dialogue and the way he chronicles 
 the life of the wastelander makes him one of the more interesting characters.
  
  Other little things have also been improved since Oblivion. The inventory system is clean and smart. 
 Everything is broken down into sections and alphabetized. This is a much needed improvement and 
 takes away much of the random scrolling seen in Oblivion. Picking locks also works better in Fallout 
 3. I rarely felt frustrated with picking locks, like I did in Oblivion. Also, a hotkey option has 
 been implemented for quick use of a weapon or health kit.
  
  These improvements and plenty of content make Fallout 3 a must for RPG fans. The small problems 
 hardly hamper the freedom the game gives you. Roaming the wastes and exploring everything has to 
 offer is well worth the sixty dollars. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SkeletalKnight
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 20, 2009 8:23 am PT
Review:  As a fan of Oblivion, I was immediately drawn to Fallout 3. I had never played any of the older 
 Fallout games, but I fell into Fallout easily because of its similarities to Oblivion and the overall 
 style of Fallout 3. The opening sequence where your character is created (at birth) and you learn 
 many of the important controls and functions of the game (progressing through childhood) is genius, 
 as it puts a very unique spin on the "training level" and helps you connect more deeply with your 
 character. 
  
  The options for interacting with NPCs is very open ended: feel like being a jerk? Want to be a 
 good samaritan? Just feel like shooting someone? Whichever catches your interest, the option is 
 there. The NPCs will act accordingly to how you speak with them, responding with anger, gratitude, 
 or even confusion depending on your choices. Even playing as a man or woman can effect how the 
 NPCs respond to you, as some will treat a male or female differently.
  
  The customization ability of the statistics and skills your character can posess allows you to 
 come up with your own blend to perfectly match your own play style. One play through you can be 
 a musclebound strongman crushing your varied enemies with baseball bats, tire irons, and Super 
 Sledges. The next your character could be well versed in Sneak, Lockpicking, and Speech, using 
 these skills to chat or stealth your way out of trouble. This wide variety of options adds a lot 
 of replay value to the game, as you can experience the game different ways by altering how you 
 build your character. 
  
  The graphics and sound in this game are phenomenal. The wasteland looks the way you would expect 
 it to - rocks and dirt dominate the majority of the landscape, with hints of what the area used 
 to be like a run down drive-in movie theater, or a town situated on what used to be a highway onramp. Strange 
 creatures and Super Mutants roam the Wastes, preying on unwary travellers. The ruins of cities 
 are filled with broken buildings and debris, and controlled by Raiders. Lakes, rivers, and even 
 small puddles of water are contaminated by radiation, making it a safer prospect to travel along 
 the water until you find a bridge than to swim across. Remains of other wanderers lay forgotten 
 throughout the Waste, some even bearing their property just waiting to be taken. Enemies will call 
 out to one another or taunt you for hiding when they can't find you. Echoing gunshots and explosions 
 can be heard realistically from far away, and it's sometimes hard to tell if they are just sound 
 effects, or an actual fight happening! The game does a great job of sucking you into the world, 
 and making you feel like the experience is real. All in all, Fallout 3 is an amazing game, one 
 that first person shooter and RPG fans alike can enjoy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KepNaki24
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 19, 2009 1:34 pm PT
Review:  I haven't played the other Fallout games, so I decided to play Fallout 3 to see how it was. There's 
 quite a few things I could say about this game, one being the fact that it takes place after a 
 nuclear blast on the united states (hence the title "Fallout") . 
  
  The Good
  1. Very Interesting Storyline: The story may be hard to follow, but if you pay attention enough 
 and stay on track, you'll actually be quite entertained.
  2. Freaking Huge World: Since the game acts like The Elder Scrolls, you can understand to having 
 a big world. But in a way, it almost makes it annoying to find out you've been going the wrong 
 way, and your destination is about 10 miles away.
  3. Excellent Attack System: Instead of having swords and axes, you actually get to have guns too. 
 And the addition to the little body-targeting system (I forgot what it was called) makes it very 
 interesting and addictive.
  
  The Bad
  1. Very Very Long: Not necessarily a bad thing, but it's not really for people who have a short 
 attention span. And if you're gonna try to beat this game, you're gonna be in for the long haul.
 
  2. Distance and Time Traveling: This also gets on my nerves a little bit, to find out where you 
 have to go next, but it's on the other side of the map or just clearly far away. A good majority 
 of this game is spent, quite literally, wandering around. When you play this game, make sure music 
 is on.
  
  Fallout 3 is a very great game from the people who made The Elder Scrolls, but as I have said, 
 if you're gonna try to beat this game, be prepared to go for a long while. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kyilmaz
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 19, 2009 8:49 am PT
Review:  I played this game and its too hard. Be ready to die alot . There arent that many good games.
 
  
  Since I played COD4, Cod5 MP , GTAIV, Saints row 2 and 1 to death and nothing else looks too good 
 got this
  
  I played on the normal level for a while - got killed repeatedly, had to start saving as soon as 
 I was going to confront new enemies (ridiculous) .
  
  Then I switched to the easy level- I just like to cruise through the game and not have almost impossible 
 situations continually which you have on even the easy level.
  
  Its a big world game no doubt- impressive - but you run out of ammo, health , have no way of getting 
 it, you come out of a subway and theres three gigantic killer robots that will blow you away.
 
  
  Your then blocked in trying to get where you want to go.
  
  I put up with it because there few good games and I've played them to death (waiting for COD5 DLC 
 Pack today!!!! Mafia II)
  
  So bottom line its way too hard and frustrating.
  
  Also steep learning curve.
  
  Anyone know on any other good games ( besides Halo) give a holler.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: piercetruth34
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 18, 2009 2:59 pm PT
Review:  Wow. Fallout 3 is awesome. It's rare a game comes along that I thoroughly enjoy and sucks me in 
 and Fallout 3 is one of those games. I could probably count games like that since I've been playing 
 games for about 25-30 years now and there aren't that many. Fallout 3 combines the great fallout 
 series with what worked in oblivion and made that a classic to make something unique here. It's 
 more streamlined than Oblivion but people saying it isnt oblivion with guns are somewhat mistaken. 
 But is that a bad thing? Nope. The oblivion feeling in this game is unmistakable. But so is Fallout. 
 it's a great great combination. Some of the voice acting could have used some work. Some of the 
 characters could have as well. A few glitches here and there. But this is a great game. One of 
 the few games these days that lives up to the hype and will go down as a classic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AlmightyMax
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 17, 2009 6:02 pm PT
Review:  The year is 2277. The world has been ravaged by nuclear war.
  
  It may seem a bleak world, but for your character fresh out of Vault 101, it's one full of opportunity. 
 Fallout 3 is a game so massive in scope and scale it may leave you dizzy. Every character, every 
 locale, every single square inch of land in The Capital Wasteland has been tended to with extreme 
 care, and the result is the most fully realized world in video game history, and one of the greatest 
 RPGs of all time.
  
  Fallout 3 is a game all about choice. It starts with your birth, and from there, you can pretty 
 much do as you please. Tackle the main story if you want to, take care of all the side quests if 
 that's your thing, or just explore the wastes at your leisure. But take care; every choice you 
 make will have repercussions. Breaking and entering, stealing, murder, etc. will all lose you Karma, 
 and make you more evil. At the same time, helping out fellow survivors and killing evil characters 
 will earn you Karma, making you a better person. 
  
  Moral choice is something we've seen before in games - Fable, Mass Effect, Bioshock - but it has 
 always felt two-dimensional. Not the case with Fallout 3. Many of the choices you make in game 
 are weighty and require some real thought. Everything you do helps shape the Wasteland, and you 
 can actually see and feel the world changing around you based on the choices you make. It's very 
 cool. Being evil and murdering a trader, for example, may seem the easier thing to do at first, 
 but the trader will stay dead, meaning you'll be screwed if you need him again.
  
  The game makes great use of these moral choices during its many intricate quests. There are too 
 many to count, and each quest can be completed in a number of ways, depending on what kind of person 
 you are. And the decisions you have to make are tough. One particularly great one revolves around 
 the wasteland's only forest and a tree 'god' named Harold. Harold used to be human, and, sick of 
 life as a tree, he asks you to kill him. At the same time however, his worshipers have developed 
 a way to spread the forest throughout the wasteland - only Harold needs to be kept alive for it 
 to work. What should you do? The quests are all equally compelling, thanks to great story lines 
 which help your understanding of the mythos. There isn't a quest that doesn't feel worth finishing.
 
  
  At a glance, Fallout 3 appears to be a first-person shooter. Play it as such, and it'll tell a 
 different story. Whether you'll be able to hit an enemy or not depends more on your character's 
 accuracy stats and proficiency with his weapon than your skill aiming. It can be frustrating at 
 times, especially for hardcore shooter fans like me, but you'll quickly get into the slower, more 
 methodical gameplay. Spicing up the gameplay is the awesome VATS (Vault-Tec Assisted Targeting 
 System) which allows you to pinpoint the part of an enemy you want to attack. Break his weapon 
 or cripple his arms so he can't attack? Shoot his legs so he can't move? Or just go for the head 
 and kill him as fast as you can?
  
  You can't just stick with VATS, of course - every move you make will drain your AP, eventually 
 forcing you to go back to real-time combat. Figuring out how and when to use VATS requires a surprising 
 amount of strategy, and it's so deep and rewarding every battle is fun and exciting.
  
  Your portal to the world of Fallout is the Pip-Boy 3000, given to you near the beginning of the 
 game. The Pip-Boy allows you to view your inventory, equip weapons and armor, check on your stats 
 and Karma, check your map or manage your quests. It's all very user-friendly and intuitive, and 
 makes the game very easy to get in to. It also gets you access to the wonderful radio system. The 
 different radio stations provide a healthy dose of entertainment, along with giving you notice 
 about new quests, helping you understand the way the Wastes work, and letting you see (hear) for 
 yourself how you are influencing the game world. Though Three Dog, the DJ at the game's biggest 
 station, repeats his lines often the radio stations are a great way to further immerse you in the 
 experience.
  
  Whether you're exploring downtown D. C., spelunking in monster-infested caves or simply roaming 
 the overworld, Fallout 3 is a visual stunner. Every part of the game world has been meticulously 
 crafted and the effort shows - this is one of the best looking games of the generation. Every one 
 of the game's dozens of locations is unique, with subtle touches helping to make it feel authentic. 
 Of course, with such a huge world, bugs are inevitable. Frame rates will freeze, your character 
 will get stuck, people will float inexplicably. It's an annoyance, but never a game-breaker.
  
  Petty criticisms aside, Fallout 3 the deepest, most extensive, most rewarding game on the market. 
 This review barely scratches the surface - I could go on for days explaining the stealth systems, 
 slavery, getting party members, perks, etc., etc., but I won't. Fallout 3 is a game begging to 
 be played and experienced for yourself. Why are you reading when you could be playing? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scott_calkins
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 17, 2009 1:30 am PT
Review:  Fallout 3 met my every expectation, and then some.
  
  Being new to the Fallout series, I wasn't sure what to expect. I was delighted with the light-hearted 
 humor I found, and how seamlessly that was meshed with the deep, dark storyline. It parodies real-life 
 quite well; where one finds the weighty circumstances of the world, sarcastic wit is looming just 
 around the corner.
  
  I found the world more engrossing than any other game I have experienced... Perhaps because I have 
 played more traditional RPG's like the Final Fantasy series, and the world of Fallout 3 is a bit 
 more plausible, if a bit far-fetched. Regardless of the reason, the sprawling world pulled me in.
 
  
  Possibly the only piece I found missing in the puzzle was the protagonist's voice. It seems I've 
 gotten so used to listening instead of reading that I am no longer satisfied by the selected text 
 that I must read myself. That said, I can't fathom Bethesda finding a way to please enough of their 
 audience to venture out onto this limb, so I'll concede that it's not truly a complaint unless 
 I have a better idea.
  
  Though I wish I had more time on my hands to ramble on at length about Fallout 3, you'll just have 
 to play it for yourself. This one's a winner; it'll be worth every bit of your time Let's just 
 hope you have a lot of time to spare!
  game I have experienced... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ridethepiggy
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 18, 2009 11:08 am PT
Review:  Overall Score: 7.75
  One of the best single-player experiences on the 360 though that isn't necessarily high praise 
 considering we haven't had much competition in this field. I'm not saying that this doesn't make 
 Fallout 3 my number one choice in single-player games though. Looking at the other single-player 
 games, Fallout 3 does dominate the competitors but still doesn't stand out as a near perfect title. 
 Yet, this is a must play unless you absolutely hate the idea of a free-roam, open choice environment 
 (which I know you don't because I see GTA in your previous 5 games played so don't even try it 
 buddy) . There are a few things that prevent my review from getting an extremely high score, obviously 
 nothing will ever score a perfect 10 since no one will ever make the perfect game but at the rate 
 we've seen releases on Microsoft's pride and joy I doubt we'll see a 9 coming from anytime soon 
 either (yes, developers, that means I want you to prove me wrong. Not that you care what one reviewer 
 on wordpress thinks.) . Summing up Fallout 3 is like trying to sum up Homer's Iliad; you can't take 
 an epic and make it a short story so the best way to really capture the essence of the Pip-boy 
 is to experience it yourself.
  
  Presentation: 9
  Stunning, powerful, beautifully rendered and very brown. Creating the wasteland of post-apocalyptic 
 Washington D. C. and Northern Virginia could not have been done better by any other team. As you 
 start the game as a small child, you find yourself trapped underground in Vault 101. With nothing 
 but bland gray walls and fluorescent lights to keep your eyes entertained you're eager to see what's 
 outside. You'll quickly progress and run into the rest of the Vault 101 residents and realize, 
 though similar in size and stature, every person does have their own unique characteristics. This 
 is absolutely vital in a role-playing game. The character models themselves are incredibly detailed 
 yet very rigid and not lifelike from time to time.
  
  Anyway, you soon find your character (male or female) blinded by the light as you exit the Vault 
 for the first time. The world opens to an expansive region of the United States and immediately 
 you are lost. Funny, I remember something very familiar about this event that involved leaving 
 an underground sewer. For the most part, you're exploring a desolate wasteland; in fact, many people 
 you meet along the way commonly refer to the area as The Wasteland. Yet, even in the seemingly 
 endless sea of brown and gray, Bethesda made The Wasteland shine. Spotted along are small towns 
 and encampments that keep you from crawling across bleak horizon without hope. If you're careful 
 and keep an open eye, you'll find a few gems that will make you smile and appreciate the intricate 
 work done.
  
  Audio is a sensitive argument. The simple part is the speech content. Fallout 3 has a fantastic 
 portrayal of character emotion and their sensitivity to your responses, which are all text-based. 
 For once, you can tell when an NPC is upset, angry, confused, scared or even being seductive. This 
 is a major advancement to games in the recent past (see: Mass Effect) which touched the line of 
 human emotion but wasn't able to cross it. Then there are the complexities that Bethesda is so 
 great at slipping in. Seeing how you're placed in an unrestrained land, the wind is also unrestrained. 
 Often you'll hear nothing but the wind. It's creepy. So is going into a decrepit house thinking 
 it's completely abandoned only to hear the whimpers of a mutated dog or the heavy breathing of 
 a feral ghoul. Of course, you hear that heavy breathing right as he's lunging toward you, teeth 
 bared and arms outstretched in his attempt to eat your face. No tense moment can be built up without 
 a solid audio track laid to the path of panic. Some might take the lack of sound the wrong way 
 because they're used to a constant onslaught of auditory diarrhea coming from an SMG or blasting 
 from their freshly stolen Comet. (note: Using the radio stations is a great way to break the silence. 
 Enclave Radio is great entertainment!) Appreciate the subtleties and nuances that Bethesda worked 
 so hard on in Fallout 3. That's an order soldier.
  
  Gameplay: 7
  Solid mechanics, solid control, bugs here and there. The similarities to Bethesda's previous work, 
 Oblivion, are a double edged sword. You retain many capacities such as the abilities to gather, 
 repair, change between first and third person view, and create. The controller layout is superb, 
 everything flows very well and there aren't any conflicts with multiple use buttons. The only issue 
 some might run into is accessing the Pip boy (your handy-dandy menu system) and navigating properly 
 through it. There are pages controlled by your d-pad and sections that are controlled with the 
 left and right triggers. Sometimes you'll find yourself trying to move from one section to another 
 (Gear to Info, for example) and using the d-pad instead of the triggers. Not a big deal though.
 
  
  Encountering enemies is handled a few different ways, depending your skills and preferences. The 
 inclusion of the VATS (Vault-Tec Assisted Targeting System) has helped the stealth and under-skilled 
 FPS players immensely. The idea of VATS is similar to the system you'd find in turn-based games 
 like Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic. You enter the mode by pressing the Right Button when 
 facing an enemy. You're greeted with an overlay that sections the adversary at hand, in each section 
 it'll show what body part you're targeting and the percentage or likelihood of hitting that target. 
 Otherwise, you're going for the regular crosshairs and intense action you'd find in any FPS title. 
 The firing system itself is well-worked and rarely misfires. You can also bounce out of the first 
 person view and play while looking at yourself a la Resident Evil over the shoulder viewpoint. 
 This does get very strange though because you tend to glide when you run; it's like watching a 
 high-definition version of Mario running across a plane that you never really sit on properly.
 
  
  That leads us into bugs and glitches. Problems are littered throughout The Wastelands about as 
 often as you see a Deathclaw in game. Usual problems are NPC stuck, getting your character stuck, 
 glitch jumping, corner clipping and the ever-infuriating mile-long aggro of creeps. Seriously, 
 a mole rat can see me across miles of dirt before I even have the chance to "see" him with my maxed 
 out perception stats. Awesome. I didn't run into a ton of glitches myself but I have read online 
 and tested some of the boosting experiences throughout the game and a few oddities that pop up 
 here and there and they are undeniably present. The only good thing is that there is not a bug 
 that is game-breaking. Nothing too serious and nothing that couldn't be shrugged off so you can 
 continue on your mission and enjoy this fantastic title.
  
  Replayability: 6
  If you summed up replayability for Fallout 3 in two words they are: Completionist's dream. Being 
 such an open world, there are opportunities to hide items just about anywhere but mostly you'll 
 find them hidden in trash cans, metal boxes and stashed away in a seemingly appropriate area. There 
 are items to collect that are tied to a storyline, like Nuka-Cola Quantums or Pre-War Books, and 
 items that help you, like stat boosting books and materials for created weapons. You also have 
 the ability to collect and store completely meaningless things such as forks and spoons and if 
 you're crazy enough you can try to fill your apartment with larger items until the game memory 
 runs low and makes them disappear. But, as the bane of any single-player only game, you soon hit 
 the wall where you have done everything and seen everyone and there isn't much more to enjoy after 
 that period.
  
  Story: 9
  "War, war never changes." What an impactful statement to open a game! The opening cinematic is 
 gorgeous and leads perfectly into the rest of the storyline. I can only quickly overview the story 
 so as to not ruin the majesty that is Fallout 3. You are born, you grow up, your father leaves 
 Vault 101 without warning, and now you want to find your father. There are a thousand elements 
 that factor in your choices throughout the game that will eventually lead you to an ending. Your 
 karma level, which changes according to those choices you make, will determine what ending you 
 see. The story is powerful, the ideology behind it may not be completely modern but the twists 
 and surprises you run into will definitely keep you entertained for a good twenty hours gameplay. 
 And remember, war never changes.
  
  Multiplayer: n/a
  Fallout 3 has no multiplayer capabilities unless you count having a friend read the guidebook or 
 off a FAQ online while you search for Bobbleheads and Pre-War Books. 
  
  (Contents of this review are my work also hosted on http://dirtytruth. wordpress. com - Real Reviews 
 by Real Gamers) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HOLLYWALLYHOOD
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 16, 2009 7:53 am PT
Review:  I first thought fallout 3 cost too much to even play. then i heard from many people that they enjoyed 
 the game very much. then i bought it myself and i realized that it was well worth the money spent. 
 To me its like Oblivion with guns. even though oblivion is good, i like fallout 3 better. they 
 style is one of a kind and you have many different wepons to choose from thoughout the entire game. 
 the operation anchorage content was worth the microsoft points too. it gave people including myself 
 more reason to play the game again long after i finished the game at first, and once The Pitt content 
 is released for xbox 360, it will give us all yet another reason to play fallout 3 again after 
 we originally have finished it. overall it has become one of my favorite xbox 360 games to this 
 date and i can't wait to see if any game in the future could be that good to take its place. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: martyr2k6
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 15, 2009 6:55 pm PT
Review:  I cannot count how many times I have compaired this game to WoW. I mean, honestly it's a console 
 gamer's equivelent to WoW in so many ways... People spend hours and hours at a time on this game, 
 and almost have to be pried off of it just to do important things, such as go to work, eat, use 
 the bathroom, etc...
  
  Now I have logged easily over 80 hours of gameplay to date, and granted, I have taken a serious 
 break from this game, because nothing around my house was getting done. This is one of the MOST 
 IMMERSIVE games I have ever played. There is so much to do, so much to see. Sometimes i forget 
 that the game is just in the Washington D. C. area, because it could easily offer a future for games 
 this in-depth across all 50 states. 
  
  The music is almost hilarious when you are killing super mutants and mercenaries whilst listening 
 to it in the background. The graphics are utterly beautiful. The dialogue, voices and acting is 
 all about where it should be (if not farther) in a game from the house that built The Elder Scrolls. 
 Bethesda really put their hearts into the world design of this game, because it is so surreal to 
 think that THIS is what D. C. would look like after a bombing run from nuke land. The anachronistic 
 approach is very unique in such a way that I think no other movie or even video game has ever accomplished. 
 
  
  I cannot say enough about this game in a positive light, it's just simply amazing. But, as I always 
 do, I will list the negative aspects of this game...
  
  This game is wonderful, but there are still some weakpoints. The first thing I noticed was that 
 in a world where people can construct weapons out of normal junk, they still seem to be completely 
 naive as to how to make a working vehicle, aside from the animals in the game. The only exception 
 is the Enclave and their working chopper (as far as I have seen) . So the fact that getting from 
 place to place requires serious footwork and patience, can sometimes hinder the overall greatness 
 of this game. Also, if the NPC's emotions and actions were a bit more, um, human then it could 
 be even more immersive. There could have easily been room made for some sort of online co-op where 
 you and another Vault escapee could double-team some of the harder quests. Higher advancement in 
 character level would be nice, a cap of 20 (with the teasing 21 in the loading screen) is a bit 
 dry for a game this good. 
  
  All in all, this game is absolutely wonderful, despite the FEW pitfalls that I found. I highly 
 recommend this game be added to anyone's collection. If you think it's "just another FPS" then 
 hit the left bumper and see it from the third person world. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tay22_j3tt
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 19, 2009 4:00 pm PT
Review:  Fallout 3. This game did not disappoint me in the slightest. The game is so vast and there is so 
 much to do. What makes it so great is that everything is your decision. The story is great, but 
 it is all your choice. You choose to be the good guy or bad guy. The amount of depth is incredible. 
 What is really amazing is when you first step out of vault 101 and view the Capital Wasteland for 
 the first time and see the destruction of nuclear war, its really amazing to see. All the weapons 
 in the game are great, as well as the armor. The variety of what you can wear is awesome. And the 
 combat is great, especially the VATS system. It is really hard to describe why this game is so 
 great, whether discussing the combat, map design, or characters. It is something you have to experience 
 yourself. Indeed one of the best games i have ever played. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: souledge959
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 15, 2009 12:13 pm PT
Review:  Fallout 3 is the new installment to the fallout universe and is the best in it's series. Though 
 not made by the original company that brought us one and two Bethesda did a amazing and superb 
 job on bring the wasteland back. The story takes place in the wasteland's of capital DC after world 
 war-III when A-bombs leaving an apocalyptic U. S. A. Before the bombs fell though some were lucky 
 and were exempted into a Valteck vault were you can live in a underground shelter for the rest 
 of your life on nice sterile floors with the same 20 to 30 people how fun dose that sound. Well 
 you start out in vault 101 as a baby and quickly you will grow going through the teenage years 
 and the adolescent years untel
  when you turn 21 you are woken up abruptly and told that your dad left the vault and like father 
 like son you go after him. once out of the vault the game truly begins with a hole world open for 
 you to explore and I mean explore I've beaten the game and played for so many hours and I keep 
 finding new areas to explore and stories to unravel. Now the main story revolves around finding 
 your father, but there is still a lot of extra stuff to do the world might be a waste land but that 
 doesn't mean that it's void of life. settlement have been set up around the map D. c is still standing 
 in rune of cores and new specie are every were, but most importantly human are like cockroaches 
 you can say because we just don't seem to die, for human settlements are spaced out neatly around 
 the map. The game will have a sort of Oblivion feel to it if you have ever plain Oblivion before, 
 but make no mistake this is no Oblivion this is a Fallout. The game has the main quest but also 
 it has what Bethesda calls miscellaneous quest or side quest they are fun and a great way to earn 
 experience and like Oblivion can be played at any time once you find it, but unlike Oblivion there 
 are only about ten miscellaneous quest which seems justs a little to short though that problem 
 is slowly diminishing with the new D. L. C coming out. there are little side quest that you come 
 across now and then , but it won't appear on you quest screen it's more that you have to pay attention 
 to the words of the person and catch that this could be a quest. the world is huge the story line 
 is great and the side quest are amazing and now the weapons are cool to from a pistole to a lazier 
 rifle the amour and weapons are top notch detail and are so fun the wield. I'm sorry if you think 
 that my review did not go to in depth on the game, but there are some thing that you need to experience 
 on you own to get that wow factor, and if you are going to buy a copy than get a 360 copy of the 
 game or PC because just a side note the PS3 dose not have D. L. C and for some reason not be realizing 
 them any time soon. I hope you enjoy Fallout 3 or at lest enjoyed this review and if not you just 
 wasted precious moments of you life. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: emblem_2007
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 15, 2009 6:44 am PT
Review:  Well i must say this was a really intersting game i must tell the truth i never played any of the 
 other fallout's this was my first one i wanted to see how the game whould be and im glad i got 
 the game its really good i like the story and what happens okay where to start i was amazed by 
 the graphics such good detail on stuff like the persons hand i chould see vains and so on i like 
 how the game starts when you in the vault but i must say also i like how that vault boy is on a 
 lot of stuff but he kind of creeps me out sometimes but like i was saying the game has some great 
 weapons and they really have hidden the vault tec bobble heads good i only found about 12 still 
 looking for others but i think the most pain of a monster to fight is a super mutant most bad to 
 fight them is when your in the dc area because theres swarms of them there and talon squad troops 
 but another thing i like about this game is when i kill people i can see there insides burst out 
 and i see there eyes flying and lungs and so on but i didnt know that the characters dad dies i 
 thought he whould go back to the vault and live there forever but i like being bad in the game 
 killing people and i also like that you can walk about anywhere in the wasteland love games like 
 this also that you get to blow up megaton and watch it in the night it glows best at night but 
 i dont like that your partner can die and i wish that all the other vaults wherent dead with no 
 one in it anymore and i was surprised to see an alien crash site in the game and the dead alien 
 next to the ship but i know oasis was really hard to find which brings to another thing the monsters 
 some of them scary some of them not but i hate looking at the mole rats there so ugly but i like 
 shooting the two headed cow things and watch them burst and i like the soda nuka cola its preatty 
 funny to me and i like the glowing blue look of the nuka cola quantum makes me want to drink one 
 in real life if i didnt make your pee glow like that girl said in the game also i like that sometimes 
 there random things happens sometimes in the game like i saw some slaves fighting megaton refugees 
 over some pure water that was in a fridge then i went back to that spot two days later and i saw 
 a giant rad scropion fighting some worker ants but the giant rad scropion was friendly i was surprised 
 to see a giant rad scropion but also i think that some of the character where a little weird like 
 one girl in arefu like she said have a cookie as a reward and she gave me a tin can i was like 
 what then she said make sure to close the gate around my garden when you get out of the house and 
 theres no grass but i get freaked out when i go to metro stations cause the song and i never know 
 what im gonna find down there also i like the brother hood outcast more because there red markings 
 on there armor but i like wearing that green looking armor more but the most creepy looking thing 
 in the game is a ghoul those people scare me and i like selling people to slavery but i wish that 
 there was a store to buy bobbypins cant really find anything also i like fighting Super Mutant 
 Behemoths to bad theres only five in all well thats preatty much this review see you next time 
 hope they make a fallout 4. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: armyman_22
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 14, 2009 7:37 pm PT
Review:  Fallout 3 is a great game with superb game play that equals up for a good long journey into fun. 
 I have heard Fallout 3 is Oblivion with guns well I never played oblivion, but if that's the case 
 it must be good. Fallout 3 continues on about the life in vault dwellers that emerge to try and 
 save the ravaged waste land. 
  
  Story -- It is an interesting foray and approach to an RPG story. You (whatever you name yourself) 
 are born, grow up, and then start a search for your missing dad who after some undisclosed mishap 
 has left the vault. When you are pursued by the overseer things become a little too hectic to stay 
 in Vault 101. You soon escape into the vast D. C. wasteland where you do a lot of growing up and 
 adventuring. The main thing is to look for your dad, but all types of interesting side quest come 
 up. 
  
  Graphics -- While the graphics are good there are a couple of things I had a problem with. In their 
 pursuit to emplace a vast amount of NPCs around there seems to be a lot of people who look alike. 
 While enemies might look alike, I wouldn't mind it, but for the civilians to do so is crazy in 
 this age of gaming. People don't always walk the way you'd expect them to. The slide and glide 
 from time to time and have problems with the back ground. There are some minor clipping issues 
 and the collision detection is off a slight bit. Oh and why don't people open doors LOL they just 
 seem to disappear in and out of rooms and houses. Its good, but it's no Killzone or MGS4 I'll tell 
 you that. 
  
  Sounds -- The game excels in this area and keeps the mood great at all times. You can turn on the 
 radio stations on your pip boy and sit back and enjoy some tunes as you slay many a beast or waste 
 land outlaw. Although the dialogue is ok why couldn't they find more than five people to do the 
 voice acting? From town to town and place to place you keep hearing the same people and seeing 
 the same faces. The weapons, moans, groans, and other effects are marvelous. This game is also 
 funny in a lot of respects like when you take the Goat just listen to the test questions and you 
 will be holding your sides.
  
  Game play -- A strong area that brings this whole package together. The controls are excellent with 
 your character is easy to control. The Pip boy keeps things easy to manage and makes sure you are 
 never lost. The world you explore is vast and never boring. All the while whatever quest you are 
 doing seems to be relevant to your main quest. So it never seems like you are wasting your time 
 doing side quest. The VATS system is an excellent combat element in which you enter a sort of time 
 slow down and target areas of an opponent's body and extract some great combat and gore. Exploring 
 is fun and you get to accumulate allies while you do so. It's hard to collect money which is called 
 CAPS, but easy to find weapons so to me it evens out. 
  Much time and care was put into the most important area of this game and that's the play mechanics. 
 Always fun to just roam around and get into a fight or two.
  
  Replay -- The replay value is high in Fallout 3. You can find all types of secrets, rescue people, 
 or do all the side quest. When that is done you can down load some more content and play with that 
 too. The best thing is every game is never the same. 
  
  I highly recommend that you get Fallout 3. It is a fine representation of gaming at its best this 
 generation. You will have fun exploring the vast waste land. You can clean up the super mutant 
 problem in downtown D. C. You can participate in a large number of games and challenges, too. I 
 don't think getting bored will be an issue with Fallout 3. PEACE!!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dracosummoner
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 14, 2009 2:35 pm PT
Review:  The Fallout series of role-playing games has a legacy of critical and popular acclaim that spans 
 more than a decade. Fallout 3 continues the series tradition of allowing players to create and 
 customize their own characters and interact  through combat, stealth, or, in some cases, diplomacy 
 -- with a world full of diverse characters and creatures, not all of them friendly. Fallout 3 was 
 developed by Bethesda Softworks, also responsible for The Elder Scrolls series of open-ended role-playing 
 games. Like the recent Elder Scrolls titles, Morrowind and Oblivion (and unlike the first two Fallout 
 games, which were played from an isometric, mostly-overhead perspective) , Fallout 3 is a three-dimensional 
 role-playing game that can be played from a first-person perspective, through the eyes of your 
 character, or a third-person, over-the-shoulder perspective.
  
  The Fallout games explore the question of what everyday life and the struggle for survival would 
 be like if the world as we know it were forced to endure a nuclear holocaust. Enormous buildings 
 and entire cities lie in ruins, once-fertile grasslands are burned away, and food and water are 
 often tainted with radiation  but somehow, life goes on, and war? War never changes. Throughout 
 Fallout 3 you, the player, will have to face the issue of survival, and unless you've already made 
 up your mind to be dedicated to being good, neutral, or evil before even playing the game, you 
 will find yourself asking whether your survival or your desires are of a higher priority than someone 
 else's. For a health restorative with no radiation side effects, will you drink that bottle of 
 purified water that you were fortunate enough to find, or will you give that bottle to a thirsty 
 beggar? Will you be selfless and noble, always doing the right thing even if it means less of a 
 reward for you, or will the scarcity of resources drive you to steal or act in your own "best interest"?
 
  
  Fallout 3 begins with your character literally being born; you see a few drops of blood on the 
 screen and hear your character's own first cries. You then meet your father, James, who checks 
 to see what your gender is. After then being introduced to your mother, Catherine, your father 
 then shows you and her a "gene projection" of what you will look like when you are fully matured. 
 In one of the game's many tragic moments, your mother dies shortly afterward. Fast-forward a year 
 later; your father is teaching you to walk, and you then become acquainted with the game's statistic 
 system. Your character has seven governing statistics  Strength, Perception, Endurance, Charisma, 
 Intelligence, Agility, and Luck (the S. P. E. C. I. A. L. system)  and these statistics help determine 
 your character's proficiency at several methods of problem-solving (again, combat, stealth, diplomacy, 
 and so on) , which are further governed by thirteen skills  three of which you can later "specialize" 
 in, without directly penalizing other skills, for an early-game one-time boost.
  
  In this way the game lets you customize your character and become familiarized with the various 
 game mechanics, including combat, across several steps, allowing you to explore the first nineteen 
 years of your character's life as a newborn, an infant, a pre-teen, an adolescent, and an adult. 
 This protracted sequence of events will probably take about an hour the first time through, and 
 while the sequence will certainly test the patience of some gamers, the trip is worthwhile.
  
  Your character grows up in an underground mass dwelling known as "Vault 101," one of many nuclear 
 shelters formed by the company Vault-Tec in preparation for a nuclear disaster. In this Vault you 
 have been sheltered from the dangers of the outside world  mutated beasts, brutal gangs, vicious 
 "Super Mutants," among others  and lived a life without worry. Your food and water were not contaminated 
 or in short supply, and all aspects of Vault life were being governed and managed by a diligent 
 Overseer. Life, though not perfect, was good  safe, orderly, and secure.
  
  One day, however, your father, for reasons of his own, manages to open the massive door leading 
 out of the Vault, and this throws the entire Vault into disarray. You awaken to the sound of alarms 
 blaring and Vault-wide warnings and searches being issued (not just for your father but for you) , 
 and for all of your unanswered questions, you know one thing: you need to leave the Vault and find 
 your father, and fast.
  
  Fallout 3 lets you dabble in combat before this point, playing around with a BB gun and perhaps 
 getting into a fistfight, but this is where the game truly tests your skills. Forced to fight (or 
 sneak) your way out of Vault 101, you will have plenty of opportunities to fight in "real time," 
 playing the game like a traditional shooter, or to try out the game's Vault-Tec Assisted Targeting 
 System, otherwise known as V. A. T. S. This unique and refreshing gameplay mechanic integrates the 
 turn-based combat of the first two Fallout games seamlessly into a modern-day shooter.
  
  In "V. A. T. S. Mode" you essentially pause the game and target any of your opponents' various body 
 parts  head, arms, legs, and so on, even switching between opponents if necessary. Provided you 
 have enough "action points" (you start the game with enough points for two or three attacks, depending 
 on your weapon of choice, and you can potentially get more) , you can launch a series of attacks 
 on the chosen body parts, and your action points will refill slowly over time. (Regarding the "free-shoot" 
 mode of gameplay, it should be noted that the shooting controls, while tolerable, are not as precise 
 as they could be. Some combat styles, particularly the use of melee weapons, seem to perform just 
 fine under these circumstances, however.)
  
  Combat is intense and brutal, in V. A. T. S. or not, with opponents' body parts routinely being dismembered 
 or even shattered, gushing blood and gore; in V. A. T. S. mode the game camera will cut to a slow-motion 
 side view of your character using his or her weapon and of your opponent taking damage. (It should 
 be noted, however, that sometimes the game camera can get stuck behind obstacles in the game world, 
 though this will not disrupt gameplay or prevent the V. A. T. S. process from completing.)
  
  With a mixture of brains and brawn, you successfully re-open the Vault 101 door and step into the 
 destroyed world outside, about which you had only been told. After walking for a few steps, you 
 are given enough experience points to "level up," at which point you are given a number of skill 
 percentage points to distribute among your thirteen skills as you wish. While it is possible (and, 
 to a small extent, necessary) to play Fallout as a "jack of all trades," distributing points evenly 
 among several skills, Fallout rewards a specialist, who has a plan for his or her character's current 
 and future development and is able to stick to that plan.
  
  Between levels your character is also given the opportunity to pick one of many usually passive 
 attributes known as "perks," whose effects range from raising certain skills or statistics to the 
 more focused (gaining damage and accuracy bonuses with certain kinds of weapons) and sometimes 
 the bizarre (enemy deaths become extremely gory) . Which perks are available to you will depend 
 upon your character's level as well as your character's statistics and skills. After you improve 
 your character, you are now free to explore the world as you wish (you actually start at or near 
 the center of the world map) , though you're not left without guidance.
  
  Your maps, items, health (and radiation, which damages your character's statistics) , quests, and 
 numerous other pieces of information are managed and organized with the use of your "Pip-Boy 3000," 
 a wrist-bound computer that you carry throughout the game. (The Pip-Boy 3000 is very hardy, explicitly 
 stated as being capable of enduring a bomb blast, and versatile  the device even has a built-in 
 flashlight that runs on an internal power supply.)
  
  You can select any of your currently active quests, and depending on your selected quest, a directional 
 marker will appear on the compass in the lower-left hand corner of your screen, showing you where 
 to go for your next quest objective. This marker is quite reliable, only becoming less useful in 
 situations where you are running through winding corridors or having to work across several floors.
 
  
  Combat customization is simple (when compared to the system found in, say, an Elder Scrolls game) , 
 consisting of a weapon, one piece of armor or clothing, a helmet, and one facial accessory, such 
 as sunglasses or a hockey mask. The variety of weapons and clothing items, however, is quite good, 
 as there are plenty of items, both "common" and "unique," to be found throughout the game, regardless 
 of a character's statistics and skill specialties.
  
  Weapons and armor must be kept in good condition in order to function well, and provided that your 
 character has a sufficient repair skill, he or she can repair weapons and armor with the help of 
 the appropriate spare items (some "special" weapons and armor pieces can be repaired by using their 
 "normal" equivalents) . The character can otherwise seek the help of a repairman. Many merchants 
 also repair items; this maintenance method requires money instead of spare parts and is also dependent 
 on the respective merchant's repair skill. Your character will often thus be forced to work with 
 weapons and armor that have low or middling repair conditions, though the condition of an equipped 
 weapon is easy to monitor, immediately displayed on the main user interface.
  
  A handful of weapons cannot be bought or found but must be manufactured. This requires the use 
 of "schematics," which can be bought or found and have a list of four necessary "junk" items. These 
 items can then be combined at any of the game's numerous workbenches to create improvised weaponry. 
 Manufacturing can be done regardless of your character's statistics or skills, but the initial 
 repair condition of any improvised weapon will improve, depending on your character's repair skill 
 as well as the number of schematics your character has for a given weapon (each weapon has multiple 
 schematics hidden throughout the game world, though only one of any given schematic is necessary 
 to create the corresponding weapon) .
  
  The various in-game "towns"are rather few in number, but all are unique and have plenty of stories 
 to tell (and quests to solve) . Stare with wonder at a quasi-Western town, complete with robotic 
 deputy; with intrigue at a fancy, yet run-down apartment complex in the middle of nowhere; or in 
 awe at a still-majestic aircraft carrier that's been converted into a settlement. (There are also 
 several remnants of destroyed towns, free for the exploring.) One of Fallout 3's most interesting 
 and distinguishing characteristics is that the game continually challenges your preconceptions 
 about what in-game towns "should" be like, further answering the question about how different people, 
 in different circumstances, adapt to life after a nuclear apocalypse. Keep an eye out; for those 
 who are willing to look, there are still a few fragments of true beauty left amid the wastelands.
 
  
  Fallout 3, which takes place in parts of Maryland, Virginia, and Washington D. C., has well upwards 
 of a hundred distinct locations to explore  not just towns, but underground metro stations (which 
 connect the various regions of downtown Washington, D. C.) , fortified bunkers, parks, satellite 
 towers, a wide variety of buildings, and even a number of famous D. C. landmarks, including the 
 Capitol Building and Washington Monument (yes, you can climb to the top and look out at the view) .
 
  
  The main quest is pretty straightforward  while the storyline has plenty of brilliant and touching 
 moments, it only covers a small fraction of the game area, and the vast majority of the game content 
 will only reveal itself to the dedicated explorer. Completing the main quest, as well as pretty 
 much all of the major side quests, took me about fifty hours; since then I have made more characters, 
 each with different weapon specializations, and gone back through many of the quests again. Some 
 of the quests are so intriguing and well-written that they still remain fun and worthwhile after 
 being completed several times.
  
  Though Fallout 3's depictions of expansive landscapes and cityscapes are certainly amazing, the 
 game truly shines in the details  in the case of environments, these details may consist of a 
 bombed-out playground, complete with toys for the player to interact with, or a neighborhood of 
 destroyed houses, each with remnants of adults  and children  who were engaged in various activities 
 right as the bombs fell. Many locations and moments in the game can be compared to interactive 
 paintings, portraits of moments left frozen in time  some of these sights are thought-provoking, 
 while others are tragic, disturbing, or even frightening. Many non-player characters have their 
 own distinct personalities and life stories; from the start of the game, actor Liam Neeson does 
 excellent work as the voice of James, a truly convincing character whose relentless, passionate 
 love for others (especially for his wife and the player character) never ceases to endear and inspire.
 
  
  The world of Fallout is one where technology has progressed far beyond that of our own world (and, 
 to some extent, continues to progress, even in the aftermath of nuclear war) but where American 
 culture still heavily resembles that of the 1950s. This motif is easily noticed in most all of 
 the areas of the wasteland, ranging from posters to billboards to derelict, yet still-standing 
 outdoor cinemas. It will likely take a while for you, as the player, to get tired of the general 
 '1950s theme' of the game. Interactive computer terminals hold a wealth of background information 
 (as well as a few references to the events and characters of earlier Fallout games) , though it 
 should be noted that the intentionally archaic black-and-green displays, coupled with the small 
 text size, may lead to headaches or eyestrain for some players.
  
  Fallout's excellent use of sound contributes to the atmosphere in a wide variety of ways. By selecting 
 one of the "radio" options on his or her Pip-Boy, the player character can listen to an assortment 
 of music that hails mostly from the 1930s and 1940s and includes artists and bands such as Bob 
 Crosby, Ella Fitzgerald, Cole Porter, and The Ink Spots, the latter group contributing the game's 
 main theme, "I Don't Want to Set the World on Fire." Another radio option, further reflecting American 
 culture during the mid-twentieth century, allows the player to listen to a variety of patriotic 
 instrumentals and anthems, as well as rousing political speeches.
  
  If the player gets tired of listening to any of the in-game radio stations, the player can simply 
 enjoy an original soundtrack composed by Inon Zur, who also did work for the PC game Crysis. Whether 
 being grim and bleak, dark and frightening, stirring and powerful, or quiet and even tranquil, 
 Inon Zur's magnificent soundtrack simply shines, no matter the situation. Outside of the music, 
 the game's sound effects, especially for weapons, and voice acting are generally great all around. 
 The general lack of ambiance makes some sense in this game, where the wastelands have some life 
 but are not teeming with it.
  
  The game's graphics, in terms of technical prowess as opposed to artistic presentation, emphasize 
 huge environments, sometimes at the expense of individual characters and object models  while 
 people and items certainly look realistic and high-quality (for the most part) , the real visual 
 treat is being able to look at the wide variety of amazing backgrounds and environments, which 
 only rarely have any graphical glitches. Bethesda's excellent art direction has made a destroyed 
 world beautiful, even if the game won't be stealing graphical awards away from "Gears of War" anytime 
 soon. Character models, unfortunately, usually have very little body language, other than some 
 decent facial expressions to match the great voice acting, and a few characters can look a bit 
 too similar.
  
  Players who are concerned with content, for themselves or others, may want to be aware that Fallout 
 3 overflows with blood and gore, not just during combat but in the background scenery of some environments, 
 which often consists of people's shredded and disfigured remains. The game is simply brimming with 
 foul language, spoken by adults as well as some children, which is far more annoying than it is 
 humorous. (There are no slurs and few or no crude sexual terms, for those who are wondering.)
 
  
  Sexual content is somewhat restrained, as there is no overt nudity (characters who have been "stripped" 
 of their clothing will be wearing modest undergarments) , but the game has plenty of innuendo and 
 suggestive dialogue, which, with only a few exceptions, tries to get its point across without being 
 blunt or obvious. The player character, regardless of gender, can sleep with prostitutes, but the 
 details of this are not explicit.
  
  Drugs and alcohol are prevalent throughout the game and can sometimes, though not often, be found 
 in the hands of children. The "drugs," other than cigarettes, are not real but are instead "made-up" 
 chemicals with names like "Jet," "Buffout," and "Psycho." Each of these drugs offers certain temporary 
 benefits and penalties (increasing strength at the expense of intelligence, for example) , as well 
 as the possibility of addiction, which damages your character's S. P. E. C. I. A. L. statistics. Addiction 
 is not "permanent" but can be cured by a doctor, and aid items such as health restoratives and 
 radiation-cleansing medicines will not lead to addiction.
  
  In closing, Fallout 3 is an ever-so-slightly flawed but nevertheless magnificent game for players 
 who can handle the content and enjoy the style of gameplay. This is not as fast-paced as many other 
 action games, but it can last for quite a while, even without the aid of a multiplayer feature. 
 The Xbox 360 and PC versions of the game are also set to receive a total of three downloadable 
 "expansion packs," and each of those packs will introduce new environments, characters, weapons, 
 quests, and achievements.
  
  Fallout 3 has a wide variety of situations, settings, and moods, and the game handles each of those 
 superbly. The game is endearing yet disturbing, cute yet bizarre, light-humored and dark-humored, 
 optimistic yet depressing, and slow-paced but compelling. In short, Fallout 3 is an utterly amazing 
 game, but it's not for everyone. (I apologize for the long length of the review, and for all that 
 I did write, I hope I didn't forget anything important.) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XvX_Fear_XvX
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 14, 2009 7:49 am PT
Review:  It's a great game. Fun for hours and keeps you busy too. You hardly ever get board. :D i got it 
 a few weeks ago and haven't put it down. There is so much to do. you can be bad, or good what ever 
 you choose. i really think you should buy this game. you cant go wrong with it. The graphics are 
 amazing and the world is huge. i bet if you walked from one end to the other it would take you 
 over 20mins. there are plenty of cool weapons and creatures to get and kill. you can make guns 
 like a dart gun or a flaming sword. it keeps you busy and it dosnt get old. f 
  u
  n ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dliv666
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 16, 2009 1:57 am PT
Review:  The world of Fallout 3 is massive, with options upon options just waiting for you to make your 
 campaign a unique experience. Enough locations for you to loose track of............ a few times 
 over and a combat system that makes every battle tactical and unpredictable. 
  
  There are moments that made me go "WOW". This game's charisma will soften the harshest critics 
 heart. 
  
  The first person perspective is an inspired decision that emphasizes the games immersive nature 
 and will make hours disappear as you delve deeper and deeper into the wastelands. 
  
  This game is everything thats great about video games ........... a masterpiece of artistic expression 
 and human imagination ....................... IT SETS A NEW STANDARD 
  
  An experience that will stay with you a long time after the game is finished.
  
  In a sea of 
 Mediocre releases Fallout 3 is an example of rare quality and exceptional game design. 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Holysoldier456
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 13, 2009 12:22 pm PT
Review:  Fallout 3, in my personal opinion, is the best game ever created. 
  The storyline, the amount of ways to individualize your character, the environment, and of course, 
 Vault Boy, are just a few things that make Fallout 3 amazing. The Fallout series is more than just 
 a game. Its a way of thinking. I often find myself pondering "what would happen if the world plunged 
 into a nuclear war?" Fallout 3 provides an accurate representation of what our great country may 
 look like after such a disaster. Another addition to the story that makes the Fallout series so 
 addicting, is Vault Tec and the Vaults. Honestly, I wouldn't mind living in a post nuclear war 
 if I could live inside a Vault. This actually inspires me to start my own company with similar, 
 although with less sinister motives.
  Kudos to Bethesda Softworks for making such amazing games like Fallout 3 and Elder Scrolls. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mikeian2014
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 13, 2009 11:55 am PT
Review:  Fallout 3 is a awesome RPG game that is totally worth buying and fans of oblivion will love! I 
 mean it kudos to the developers it is a really complete game and is well worth the money spent! 
 The graphics are amazing and polished, the gameplay is amazing, and the who would want to play 
 this catagorie spans to anyone living on earth! From the minute you turn the game on to the second 
 you "beat it" the game never ceases to entertain! But I gave it a 9.5 because though the graphics 
 are amazing there are glitches the one thing that can be useful sometimes but annoying most times 
 some or most of you may disagree but hey I hate it when I'm walking in a game in then without warning 
 fall through the ground and into a white abyss! Now i'm sure all of you gamers out there have had 
 it happen at least once? But hey this only occurs in a couple spots especially around the citadel 
 HQ of the brotherhood of steel! But this almost perfect game makes up for it! TRUST ME! 
  
  Overall 9.5 bottom line!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: KA12NAG3
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 12, 2009 6:26 pm PT
Review:  Fallout 3 is one of the best games I have ever played. It's an incredible value for the money and 
 is an experience unlike any other. The difficulty can be changed to suit anyone's preferences, 
 and the story is incredible. The player has complete freedom in the game and can customize his 
 character however they feel. 
  
  Karma plays a very significant role in the game. The player can choose for his character to be 
 evil, neutral, or good in the game, and the player's interactions reflect that. Every mission in 
 the game has different ways to approach it, some resulting in good karma and some decisions resulting 
 in bad. Other characters react to you based on your decisions, which can be both beneficial and 
 detrimental to your character. Good players are also occasionally ambushed by the Talon Company 
 (a group of evil mercenaries who's contracts sometimes request them to try and kill you) and bad 
 players occasionally are faced with fighting Regulators (a group of law-bringing mercenaries) which 
 bring a realistic and enjoyable experience to the game. A players karma also influences the world 
 in the game; best shown early in the storyline when deciding whether to blow up Megaton (a town) 
 or to save it.
  
  Weapons and fighting in the game are also enjoyable. The VATS system allows the player to pause 
 time to target specific parts of the enemy's body. By targeting the head, the player can (if it 
 hurts the enemy enough) send the enemy's head flying off his (or her or it's) body. By targeting 
 the enemy's legs, the player can stop an enemy from being able to move, by targeting its hands 
 can enable it to not be able to shoot, and by targeting the opponent's gun can cause the enemy 
 to either hand fight or find another weapon. The player can also fight regularly just like in other 
 games. There are an incredible array of weapons, and some can be made from found objects into even 
 more interesting and deadly weapons. For example, the Rock-It-Launcher can shoot anything as ammo 
 (teddy bears, plates, cans, soda bottles, forks, etc.) and is very fun to use. Other custom weapons 
 include a Railway Rifle (which can pin enemies to the wall with its spikes) and the Shish-Kebab 
 (a deadly flaming sword) .
  
  The game is also very well designed and is often beautiful to look at. The player can listen to 
 music on their radio, and even own a house complete with a robot butler. The world is very large 
 and surprisingly fun to explore, and the experience is unforgettable. New down-loadable content 
 has already been released and more is on the way to add on to all of the great things that this 
 game has already accomplished. 
  
  THIS IS ONE GAME THAT YOU DEFINITELY DON'T WANT TO MISS OUT ON. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vinchenzot
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 12, 2009 2:21 pm PT
Review:  Great things:
  
  Character costumization
  Combat
  V. A. T. S. combat
  Unlike other RPGs this game allows you to take control of combat
  Unique story that sucks you 
 in
  NPCs are fun to talk mess and fight with
  Lets you take control of the character unlike any other game
  Quests
  Recruiting NPCs
  Gory 
 violent and bloody
  Dorky characters are funny to laugh at
  The cast of the game are oscar winners
  Great voice acting even not by the oscar winners
  Weapons
 
  Creating weapons
  choosing your path and destiny
  Dramatic
  Free exploration
  Memorable moments
  Graphics
  Friendly NPCs are smart
  Stratigec
  You can find other ways 
 to "recruit" other NPCs
  Customizing your NPC's battle style
  
  Bad things
  
  Minor glitches such as having your character face sideways or lagging
  Character doesnt move 
 so cool
  Not much comedy
  NPCs are dumb sometimes
  No vehichles 
  No online
  Only abe to recruit 1 NPC at a time 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -Inertia
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 8, 2009 3:44 am PT
Review:  Fallout 3
  
  I've played through Fallout 3's campaign a couple of times now and i think it is time for me to 
 give this game my 2 cents.
  
  Set in a apocalyptic wasteland Fallout 3 is one of the first RPG's that involve the use of mostly 
 ranged modern technology from a standard pistol to a Mini-gun and the infamous 'Fat Man' Rocket 
 Launcher. Also their is the choice of hand weaponry, such as Combat Knives and 'Power Gloves'. There 
 are two ways to attack enemies or even allies in Fallout 3:
  - Firstly through the V. A. T. s system which pauses game play and you choose which enemy and which 
 part of that enemies body you will attack, say you shoot at the enemies gun it can cause the enemy 
 to stop and have to hit his gun making valuable time to get some extra shots in.
  - Secondly there is the regular shooter style way, running and gunning. Take aim, fire. Self explanatory.
 
  
  Playing through the story in Fallout 3 i found myself just taking some time to explore the great 
 barren landscape created by Bethesda Softwork's team. I'd find lots of different things, one of 
 my most satisfying experience in Fallout 3 was when i was out just exploring the wastes; I came 
 across a small group of Wastelander's being attacked by Raider's, i decided to help out taking 
 some of the Raider's out and one of the Wastelander's came up to me and thanked me for my help.
 
  
  The main storyline can be finished within 15 hours of starting the game but there are countless 
 quests and other goals to complete throughout the game which add another 20 or so hours to the 
 play time of this game, the only thing i was disappointed with in Fallout 3 was when the main storyline 
 was complete the game quits to the main menu and you could not continue with the side quests, but 
 i can agree with that with what happens in the end of the game, not spoiling anything for you as 
 it is a incredible game.
  
  It has been one of my greatest gaming experiences since Diablo, i recommend it to anyone interested 
 in RPG's as it is one of the best out there.
  
  Thanks for reading, 
  If you have any questions don't be scared to ask for answers
  
  
  -Inertia 
::::::

::::::
UserName: error_971
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 11, 2009 9:10 pm PT
Review:  Great Game. Gota love the mods.
  I love this game, and was very pleased with it.. needless to say, it became much better when i 
 was able to mod it.. but the ability to mod and have software (G. E. C. K) in direct relevance to 
 mods made it that much more enjoyable. Good, sturdy (for me) story line, with challenging gameplay.. 
 and nice DLC. I was looking forward to its release and was not displeased. Overall, there could 
 have been bigger cities.. slightly more involved characters.. (believable settlements, bigger D. C... 
 etc.) but rummaging through the devastated wastelands of washington D. C. fed my appetite quite 
 wonderfully. Fallout 3 could have had a bit more substance, but i love it the way it is. Sturdy 
 gameplay, vibrant environments, great graphics and semi-realistic environments really help to push 
 this game along. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: st0k3d
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 11, 2009 4:01 pm PT
Review:  Fallout 3 is one of those games where first impressions count for a lot. When you first hear the 
 game is about exploring post-apocalyptic Washington D. C. is sounds like an amazing idea, and it 
 is dont get me wrong, but to me it feels they could have done more with it.
  
  The whole story line of the game is growing up in a vault away from the radiated wasteland until 
 you have to go out into the wasteland and then find and help our dad with "his mission". That part 
 is great, but its way to short. If some one went through the main story line from objective to 
 objective they could finish very quickly. Bethesda though, as they did with Oblivion, is added 
 side quests.
  
  The side quests are fun and usually have decent rewards but they can be hard to find as there isnt 
 a lot of them. I know its a wasteland with most people dead, but when Im exploring I want more 
 to do with my time.
  
  That would be my biggest complaint with the game. Although Bethesda is trying to help with DLC's 
 like operation anchorage and 'the pitt'.
  
  Aside from that it is a great RPG. But its a solid RPG because of the gun play. Not a Halo style, 
 or a gears style, but a Fallout 3 VATS style. Blowing off raider of mutant limbs left and right 
 never gets old.
  
  Solid graphics, solid customization and variety. Physics are kind of awkward when you go into 3rd 
 person. Your person jumps incredibly high, but they just used the Oblivion jump. And in 3rd person, 
 watching your person run, especially when they are holding a gun looks uncoordinated and awkward.
 
  
  Fallout 3 may not appeal to all people. If you are all about missions and performing one objective 
 to the next, this probably isnt your game. A lot of the game is spent exploring aimlessly.
  
  St0k3d
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: eze_sl89
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 14, 2009 6:29 pm PT
Review:  Lets start by saying Fallout 3 is (as its predecessors) a great game, full of freedom and places 
 to explore and discover.
  
  The player starts the game in the so known VAULT 101 ( a hidden place safe from the outside world, 
 full of dangers and radiation caused by nuclear bombs) .
  Then our father suddendly disappears, and we gonna have to escape VAULT 101 and try to find him.
 
  So, we find ourselves in a post apocaliptic Washington DC, full of stange creatures, ghost towns, 
 lakes full of radiation and other dangers.
  
  The interesting fact about this game, is the vast world we have at our disposal to explore, the 
 wide variety of weapons, people, and conversations we can have with them is amazing.
  Quests take significant time to achieve, and are pretty hard.
  The whole game can be played in 
 first person view or in 3rd person camera, but its very likely you would end up by using the FPS 
 mode anyway.
  
  Graphics are awesome, and details are impressive; such as rocks, trees, water, wood, and different 
 material textures.
  Sound is great, and really inmersive.
  
  The bad thing i found in this game is the high resemblance
  to Oblivion The Elder Scrolls (and 
 thats pretty obvious cause they both use the same graphic engine) , but i personally preffer Oblivion. 
 I mean, after playing hours and hours with Oblivion you feel weird while playing F3, it feels like 
 youve already played the game or something. 
  I also experienced a couple of times where the hole screen froze, and had to reset my console. 
 So i highly recommend to save the game frequently... so im afraid thats the only kind of glitch 
 i had suffered so far.
  And finally, i have to say there are several quest very imprecise, they fall in randomness and 
 you end up wondering what the fuuck you are supposed to do next.
  
  Anyway, this game is very cute, and its lenght depends on how much you want to play it. It has 
 an enormous map that you ll be able to explore and have quite a lot of fun.
  
  I give this game an 8.8.
  
  If you are an Oblivion fan youll probably find FO3 a bit more of 
 the same.
  But if youre a new comer to the genre, youll definetely have a hell of a ride with this.. a must 
 have.
  
  Cheers.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dynamix22
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 10, 2009 6:36 am PT
Review:  Let me start this off by saying that Fallout 3 is an amazingly well done game. There are a few 
 bigger snags to it, like the clunky combat system and the fact that people's eyes in the game don't 
 move or wink, but it's all fogiveable - the expierience is great. There are a lot of many interesting 
 charecters to meet in the world of Fallout 3, such as Harold, Three-Dog (who I killed, because 
 he spoke bad of me on the radio) and others. The quests are also good, and varied. I love the storyline 
 of the game, though I was dissapointed by the ending. I was expecting better. All in all, Fallout 
 3 is one of the most beautiful, detailed and fun games out there. Heck, you can even blow up a 
 town with a nuke!
  
  Pros:
  
  Great graphics.
  Very well designed charecters, good storyline.
  A lot of stuff to do besides the main quest.
 
  Soundtrack.
  
  Cons:
  
  The combat is clunky, but you'll do with V. A. T. S.
  The wasteland is a great place, but there's a huge travel distance between places that you haven't 
 discovered yet.
  Some glitches here and there
  
  9/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: childofrock11
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 9, 2009 9:40 am PT
Review:  Fallout 3 is a trully immersive game in which you can easily get lost in and spend hours upon hours 
 doing many many things, whether useful or meaningless as they may be. With a bit more focused story 
 than the developer's last game (Oblivion) , it offers a more rewarding outcome to your actions.
 
  
  For those looking for a first person shooter... stay away... this is an rpg. It was even off putting 
 to me at first. Seeing your weaponry from a first person view always gives that fps feeling but 
 once you get into the swing of thinking like an rpg then you will be fine. The dice roll hidden 
 behind the layers is quite evident. You might get a sweet headshot on someone with a sniper rifle 
 only to realize that it will take 10 more headshots to bring down your foe just because you aren't 
 leveled that high in the use of rifles so therefore the damage you do isn't as much as it would 
 be if you were.
  
  All in all Fallout 3 is about immersion. A world with extreme detail and many many hours of gameplay 
 and replayability. The realized world is stunning (although i believe the graphics feel slightly 
 outdated, mainly when outdoors) and the attention to detail helps this even more. Rpg fans are 
 sure to love and i think the majority of most other players will fall in love as long as they give 
 it the time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SpectreBoy6
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 8, 2009 8:37 pm PT
Review:  SpectreBoy6 2nd Review Fallout 3 for 360
  
  the good: amazing gameplay, great story, lot location........
  the bad: little bad graphic......
 
  
  Hail to Fallout 3! this game is one of my favorite games and RPG, i love the story and gameplay of 
 this game... this game is very amazing, and lot of game play time, maybe the only matters is graphic, but 
 its ok..
  
  i'm has end this game for twice, and has have an new profile again, actually i like to be an god 
 guy in this game, but in my 3rd save i'm decide to be an bad guy.. haha i just kill that guy named 
 tenpenny, but after kill that guy i got an good karma! maybe because he is an evil, but anyway the 
 point this game is truly fun and amazing......
  
  so the score for this game is...9.5/10 (my version) ......... 
  
  
  
  P. S: sorry if there 
 any bad english........ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: patzcool
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 8, 2009 7:49 pm PT
Review:  Fallout 3 well i haven't played the first 2 but that doesnt matter now. This game is seriously 
 GREAT i haven't played a game more big, exciting, and amazing gameplay. you can spend hours upon 
 hours trying to explore the wasteland, doing sidequests making friends, anything its great. there 
 is tons of weapons in this game lots of monsters to kill and just alot to do. you will not get 
 bored at all once your done being good evil or neutral. you'll want to play it again and be different. 
 i think that this will be a game people remember. and PLUS DLC for XBOX 360 YAY!!!!!!!!!!! i already 
 bought operation anchorage cause i wanted to play more! it was pretty good but thats alright new 
 dlc is coming out anyways so i suggest you stop reading this now and go get this AWESOME game GO! 
 NOW! thanks for reading if your still here 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Manic-Dan
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 8, 2009 1:21 pm PT
Review:  This isn't really going to be a in depth review, mostly just my thoughts on the game and its development.
 
  
  First of all, regardless of what other people say, this IS oblivion with guns, everything from 
 the wait screen to how you can change your character before you leave the vault is almost identical. 
 But that doesn't mean it isn't a good game. Because it is.
  Oblivion and Fallout 3 seem to have done a switcheroo. Oblivion had a short and predictable Main 
 quest, but a massive amount of great side-quests. Fallout on the other hand, has a greatly improved 
 story, but a really dissapointing amount of side quests. I think there is only about 15 overall. 
 Don't get me wrong, some are brilliant on their own (power of the atom) but some are just too short, 
 and often have some serious bugs (i cannot complete oasis due to being locked out!) I also found 
 it hard to believe when i found that 1) Bethesda decided to put a level cap at 20, and 2) once 
 you have finished the main quest... thats it. over. done. finished. 
  The level cap can be explained, the levelling system in fallout 3 means its very easy to max out 
 a skill. So if there was no level cap, you could have a character with every skill at 100. However, 
 in April, Bethesda are releasing an expansion that will not only push the level cap to 30, but 
 also carry on from the main quest regardless of what you chose to do. If Bethesda planned to have 
 this expansion, and exceed the level cap. WHY stop you after the main quest finished? it makes 
 NO sense. One thing is for sure, they better have a damn good explanation in the expansion. 
  For some of you that may have or not made no sense, finish fallout and it may become apparant, 
 Thank you for reading my thoughts, and maybe sometime soon i'll write a proper review. As always, 
 comments and mail welcome
  
  Manic-Dan 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZodiacalRad
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 8, 2009 8:20 am PT
Review:  The game fallout 3 has a little bit of everything there is some mystery in the back story, plenty 
 of action while you explore and that sort of feeling that other people could be playing with you. 
 
  
  i love the way that every choice you make and move you make has some sort of effect on you... well 
 not every but most. like if you kill a person lose karma then you lose chances to do things or 
 people will treat you different that goes the same if you gain lots of karma. 
  
  There is also a wide variety of creatures to fight in the wastes. From the simple rad roach to 
 the super mutant behemoth. the game will always be sending new things your way.
  
  The game also a wide variety of weaponry. you could use an assault rifle or something a little 
 more fun like the rail way rifle that can shoot railway spikes and pin enemies to the environment. 
 The story takes some turns that may surprise some people like when the guy tells you ........ exactly. 
 
  
  well all in all the game is amazing 
::::::

::::::
UserName: micia212
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 7, 2009 9:17 am PT
Review:  Fallout 3 is the one of the best games out there at the moment and deserves all the hype. Bethesda 
 has again outdone themselves. Not only was Oblivion one of the best role playing games to hit xbox, 
 ps3 and pc, but then they give us this. 
  Even the smallest details are awe inspiring like it isnt a immediate shooter. Your not some gun 
 nut that is awesome with every weapon. You start from scratch and have to learn these things. After 
 all everyone wants to be a gun nut at heart. The gameplay is well structured with memorable characters 
 and a good storyline but for those who dont particularly doing it by the book the freedom it offers 
 is immense. Become another person. Be good or evil or sit on the fence and take neither side. The 
 graphics are stunning with facial feutures well developed so after a couple of drinks you might 
 find yourslef talking back, just make sure your by yourself or else people will start talking and 
 we cant exactly despose of them with a Fatman nuke launcher or power fist can we. 
  Its not just the endless killing and comedic speech you notice you start to get a respect of how 
 much effort must have gone into it. I hear there are almost 100 random events and i have only found 
 2. Also the landscape. You notice sandstorms, dark nights filled with mutated creatures and the 
 scorching wasteland thats full of slaver and raiders. For the 360 there achievements so dont stop 
 at one playthrough. If your the protector on one playthrough become the prime cannibal on the other 
 who finds himself alone in a cave chewing on some unfortunate raider.
  Anyway this is my review so i hope i inspired some of you to go out and venture into the apocalyptic 
 wasteland. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drei67
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 5, 2009 3:48 pm PT
Review:  All I have to say is this is one of the best takes on transforming a third-person, turn based Rpg 
 game into a first person action shooter. 
  
  While there are numerous things right on the mark with this game, there are only a few which could 
 have been a little better. For the sake of brevity, I will give the shorter list.
  
  Color palette
  While I get what the artist/designers were going for here with the overall shades 
 of gray and dark browns, it sometimes negatively effected game-play. The color scheme on occasions 
 made finding objects (especially skill books) very difficult and needlessly time consuming.
  
  Experience Level Limit
  I was not very pleased when I hit level 20 and still had about a 
 third of the quests left to complete. It diluted the incentive to play my character smart. I also 
 would have enjoyed trying a few more of the higher level skills.
  
  Cooperative Campaign
  This game screams for a co-op multiplayer mode, even if split-screen of like Fable II the hero/hireling 
 scenario.
  
  More Object Interaction
  Many times, I found myself thinking I would be more opt to explore the beautifully expansive map 
 if I could jump on a horse or repair a vehicle. This also could extend to structures. Being able 
 to interact and use the ruined building like in Grayditch throughout the map, especially when being 
 bum rushed by a horde of Talon Mercs would have added an additional strategic layer to the over 
 all game.
  
  I've been a fan of the Fallout series from the original and its sequel to "Fallout Tactics: BOS". 
 Fallout 3 continues the same immersion and satisfaction of its predecessors while introducing the 
 option of the faster paced FPS approach.
  
  Buy this title and play it or a local Super Mutant Behemoth may pay you a visit. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: warhammer40k_1
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 5, 2009 12:57 pm PT
Review:  Im not sure the best way to go about reviewing this game, Its so open ended that you feel like 
 you can get lost in what you are doing for days, but there is enough direction in the story line 
 that you feel compelled to see what is going to happen next so you are driven to explore the world 
 discovering the events that are unfolding around you.
  
  I've personally never been to Washington DC but when I talk to people that have they say that is 
 almost eery how resembling the enviornment is. The weapon and targeting system is alot of fun, 
 you can play the game like an FPS if you want to or you can rely on the VATS system.
  
  I can remember what it stands for but when you are within a resonably range for your target for 
 the weapon that you are using, you can initiate the VATS system which zooms you in on the target 
 and lets you select subtargeting areas on the body, for example the left leg or the right feellers 
 on a fire ant.
  
  Over all the graphics are impressive and the game is compelling yet open ended, i would recommend 
 this game to almost anyone that loves a good story and or a good game.
  
  -marcus 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Regulator0013
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 3, 2009 9:57 am PT
Review:  The highly anticipated Fallout 3 certainly delivered, this game is of the highest quality and gets 
 it almost completely right. Though it has a few flaws, this is one of the best games put out and 
 is a definite must-have.
  
  The story is interesting in that the game takes place in 2277, 200 years after a Nuclear War between 
 the USA and China. Your character whom you create with an average character creator is a Vault-Dweller, 
 a person who has lived in a secured, radiation-proof vault under the ground. The Vault is pretty 
 confining and under the thumb of the dictatorial overseer. You live there with your father until 
 he breaks out and you follow him. On the outside you find the "Capital Wasteland" which is the 
 ruins of Washington, DC and its surrounding regions. It is a very inhospitable place with fierce 
 monsters, mutants, and psychotic raiders. Your quest is to find your dad and well... the rest would 
 be spoilers.
  
  The character creator lets you pick a male or female and your stats are then determined by going 
 through a childs book (you start the game as a baby, then a 10 year old, then 19) . After that you 
 take the infamous Bethesda Games test that determines your skill-set (which you can change) . The 
 skills you get are mostly pertinent to the game and specializing in any of them can make for a 
 fun game. Though some skills are more useful than others (guns, lockpick, science, repair) .
  
  The game can be played first or third person, though the first person view is the most relevant 
 and easiest to use. Most of the combat is firearm based and it works well. Your accuracy improves 
 as your stats go up and if you want you can play it as a full FPS. The game also employs the Vault 
 Assisted Targeting System or VATS, a targeting system that lets you aim at the body parts of the 
 enemy and assigns a probability ratio to each. It is incredibly effective and enriches the gameplay. 
 You can easily go between VATS and FPS on the fly which is probably the best way to do it. Controlling 
 your character is easy and functions almost identically to Oblivion.
  
  Dialogue is much like that of Oblivion, you make conversation choices and can influence others 
 by virtue of your speaking skills. The voice acting is on par with other good games but does not 
 stand out. The music is subtle, but sets the tone, especially when enemies are on to you.
  
  The graphics are very well done, the Capital Wasteland is not the lush, fantasy land of Oblivion, 
 though the graphics are completely appropriate. The illustrations are perfect for a land ravaged 
 by nuclear war. There are no plants. dead trees, boulders, rocks, scorched earth, strewn cars, 
 destroyed buildings and the haunting ruins of famous American Landmarks. If the nuclear apocalypse 
 looks like anything, this is it. The game is not supposed to be aesthetically pleasing, but it 
 is fully appropriate.
  
  The weapon variety is diverse which allows you to tailor your characters. You get power weapons, 
 light weapons, fast ones, slow ones, and melee. The game also allows you to create weapons if you 
 have the right parts and schematics which is a very nice feature. The weapons you can make are 
 good and not just "showpieces." The armor variety is slim, you can get by with only a few pieces, 
 but that is only a minor complaint.
  
  The difficulty is just about right, it moves with you as you level up. The enemies you face get 
 progressively harder and some enemies stay behind and become quick cannon fodder. Prepare to get 
 jumped because enemies often travel in packs and you will have to be quick on your feet to find 
 cover.
  
  There are only a few complaints, the most prevalent of which is the system in which you repair 
 weapons and armor. You can go to a store and have it fixed up to a certain percentage, however 
 I was not able to find any merchant who can fix an item up to 100%. You can keep increasing your 
 repair skill which allows you to repair items up to 100%, but you need an item that is the same 
 as the other to fix it, e. g. to fix the combat shotgun you need another combat shotgun, etc. This 
 is terribly annoying as weapons are scarce and that some weapons and armor are unique and cannot 
 be repaired. This limits options and was truly annoying. Oblivion had it right, buy items to repair 
 your equipment with. The other complaint is that the game's ending falls short, the final battle 
 is a disappointment and is kind of bland for such a great game.
  
  Aside from some minor complaints, this game is nothing shot of amazing. It is in depth, highly 
 playable, very fun, and highly addictive. Fallout 3 is the gold standard of what RPG's should be. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: krillehog
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 2, 2009 11:12 am PT
Review:  Fallout 3 is set in a post apocalyptic, futuristic, fifties-inspired environment (futuristic and 
 fifties might sound a bit strange but that's how it is) . I personally think this combination doesn't 
 work that well all the time. It does not feel quite right running around year 2277 when everything 
 looks like it is the 1950's. Some might like it some might not.
  
  The game is a mix of rpg and fps hence you will recognise elements from both game types. You will 
 for example earn experience points and level up, you can also choose to battle your opponents in 
 real time or "frozen" time, more on that later. Another feature of the game is that you have to 
 repair your equipment because it decays the more you use it. This can be both stimulating and tiresome.
 
  Fallout 3 has an intriguing storyline that slowly unfolds like a folding fan while you play.
 
  The storyline is broken down into quests which you will take on during your travels. While you 
 may choose to follow the main quest you can also do side quests that are not directly linked to 
 the main storyline. You are probably better off doing some side quests due to experience points, 
 equipment etc though.
  Almost everything you do during your travels will not only affect the character but it will also 
 affect the world around you. The game is designed in the way that you can make good and evil choices, 
 the choices you make will in turn affect how people approach you. Some people you meet like evil 
 and some like good, just as it is in the real world.
  
  You start the game in a vault, vault 101 to be specific, which is a big fallout-shelter that originally 
 was used to shelter the occupants from the nuclear war that occurred in the year 2077. Vaults also 
 had secondary purposes which you will find out during the course of the game...
  Vault 101 is where the main character grows up. Here you will go through a basic tutorial and choose 
 what characteristics your avatar will have. You will watch your character grow up and make new 
 choices while you do that. This kind of character creation/tutorial is different to what you might 
 be used to and I think it is a good feature.
  
  You will eventually leave the vault, like previous chapters of this game, and start your adventures 
 in the greater Washington D. C. area. You will meet a lot of people (and mutants) in the game, some 
 are friendly, some are hostile and some are just plain neutral.
  The hostiles are quite hard to defeat in the first quarter to half of the game, they then gradually 
 get easier to defeat even though you meet stronger enemies the further you get into the game. It 
 would have been good if the game was more balanced with a more consistent difficulty level right 
 through the game. You can always change the regular difficulty (goes from easy to hard) but that 
 should not be necessary.
  
  The visuals in the game are very pleasant to rest your eyes on (might not be the case all the time 
 for sensitive "viewers" though) . It is not the most colourful game; the landscape is usually a 
 mix of gray, yellow and brown. But everything (the rocks, the grass, the characters etc) is well 
 crafted by the graphics team. The only thing that might look a bit dull is some of the buildings 
 and some interior, but that is probably what you could expect 200 years after a nuclear war.
  Another feature I would like to mention is the day and night cycle which is also a nice addition 
 to the game, it gives the landscape a bit of variation by making things look different at various 
 times during the 24-hour cycle. This might be pretty obvious, but my point is that it is also good.
 
  One good thing with this kind of cycle is that you can get some nice views over the landscape 
 and the ruins of D. C. at different times of the day.
  
  The music in the game originates from various radio stations that broadcast throughout the region. 
 It gets a bit repetitive and annoying after a while, even though the radio-function is good in 
 general, I especially like when one of the radio-talkers talks about the characters achievements 
 throughout the game. The other sound effects are quite plain and unoriginal.
  
  Finally I would like to mention the combat system of Fallout 3, it is called V. A. T. S, which stands 
 for Vault-Tec Assisted Targeting System. When you activate it the game freezes (don't worry though 
 it is supposed to) and you can quite relaxed choose where to shoot your opponents. You will get 
 a percentage on the probability to hit a certain body part. Some parts of the body is harder to 
 hit than others. You are assigned action points which you spend in the system, if you run out of 
 action points you can leave V. A. T. S and continue the combat in a more first person shooter style, 
 the action points regenerates steadily though. It is quite good that you can activate the combat 
 system and perform the combat in a more relaxed way which is probably also better for your heart.
 
  
  All in all Fallout 3 is a game with great visuals and a superb storyline which will keep you playing 
 and wanting more. The combat system is also a big plus. It gets a minus for the sounds though, 
 they are quite plain and unvaried.
  In the end I would definitely recommend this game to both new and old Fallout-players. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aran_tebbutt
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 2, 2009 10:07 am PT
Review:  The game is simply great and with Bethesda once again making a game that can suck multiple days 
 of your life away it was one of the games of the year. It looks and feels fantastic. The atmosphere 
 suits the theme perfectly with a mixture of old fashion music and a bleak look. 
  
  Possibly the best thing about this game is the way that you can make the story your own, you can 
 be good, bad or indifferent. The ability to complete the missions in any order you like makes this 
 a game that you can get as much as you want out of it. wit around 15-20 hours of main campaign 
 and about the same in sub quests.
  
  With only a few negative aspects to the game being the constant popping textures however, this 
 does little to effect the enjoyment of the game.
  
  It is one of the best western RPG's around second only to Mass Effect (with 2 on the way lets hope 
 it slips down one more place hay) so for the full of the review head over to http://www. whatgamesyougame. webs. com/ 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JunglemanchiId
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 2, 2009 4:20 am PT
Review:  There hasn't been a real Fallout game since 1998. With a few spin-offs, cancelled games and rumours 
 about a MMOG, fans had waited for a worthy sequel to the excellent Fallout 2 for too long.
  
  Fallout 3 is set in the year 2277, 36 years after the setting of Fallout 2 and 200 years after 
 the nuclear war that has devastated the world. You will play as one of the "lucky" people who were 
 given access to a Vault to protect them from the nuclear fallout and everything else. You will 
 begin the game as a baby and progress very quickly through your childhood and eventually to your 
 very late teens, all the while developing your character the way you want him or her to be, this 
 very important part of the game is done very well and even if you want to change your mind... you 
 are given one more chance to do so just like in Elder Scrolls IV : Oblivion.
  
  Once you are out in the wasteland, you are free to do as you please... seriously. The main quest 
 has begun and you can choose to follow this at any time, or you can just leave it and do the things 
 you want to do. There are obviously a lot of side quests and other random encounters that can keep 
 you entertained far longer than the main quest will. If you want to be a hero you can free slaves, 
 take out mercenaries, become a Regulator (a bringer of justice in the wasteland) and perform a 
 variety of good deeds throughout the entire map! If this isn't for you then don't worry, you can 
 kill just about everyone you meet, steal everything you can get your hands on, be the one who kills 
 the good people of the land and do no favours for anyone but yourself. There is also the third 
 option of being a "grey" character who takes no sides.
  
  This is where Karma comes in, you are able to check your status at any time and will be able to 
 see if you are evil, good or neutral and the extremes are also present such as very evil... devil 
 horns and all. Depending how you play the game you are given a positive karma boost or a negative 
 karma "penalty". You are able to balance things out, such as giving a begger some water, thus gaining 
 Karma, then murder him, resulting in a loss of karma. This is easy to get to grips with and it 
 means there is plenty of replay value as you will want to play the game as many different characters 
 as each one can gain access to special abilities and perks.
  
  Perks are available when you level up, these can do anything from increasing your accuracy to allowing 
 you to eat dead humans. Some are better for the role-playing aspect of Fallout and some are very 
 useful for survival. Again this is another part of the game that allows a great deal of replay 
 value, there are so many perks (some of which will be unavailable depending on your characters 
 stats) that you will be able to create a different style character just to try out the perks you 
 weren't able to get with another play through. Everytime you level up you are given skill points 
 to add to your skills, such as lockpick, small guns, sneak and medicine. Depending on your character, 
 several skills are more essential than others. Increasing certain skills will give you access to 
 certain perks.
  
  Action is obviously a major deal in the game. You can shoot using V. A. T. S. (Vault-Tec Assisted 
 Targeting System) or just in real-time, it is possible to play through using both, certain situations 
 will be better for one or the other. In V. A. T. S. you "pause" the game and are given a layout of 
 the target, you can now aim at the head, left or right arms, right or left legs and body. Certain 
 targets such as robots and insects will give you different parts to aim at. You are also able to 
 target an ememies weapon which may destroy it completely, meaning you cannot repair it... but they 
 can't use it on you. Of course all of this can be done in real-time, being able to cripple legs 
 etc. 
  
  There are of course some bad points (only some) . You can only level up to 20, which just is not 
 enough. I have sometimes just started a new game after reaching level 20 as I had so much left 
 to do but was gaining no more experience, this made it feel like I wasn't progressing through the 
 game. This will be increased to level 30 with the release of the 3rd downloadable content package... though 
 I believe they should have released it with the 1st! There are many bugs (you can't blame them 
 really because the game is so big) , some may ruin a quest you were doing or force you to load a 
 previous save. Don't worry though, some people play for about 50 hours without anything going wrong!
 
  
  With the downloadable content, custom weapons, different dialogue options, random encounters and 
 other things even I probably haven't discovered yet, you can be certain that Fallout 3 is a game 
 that is well worth the money, you will be playing it for months and maybe even until the next one 
 arrives! I haven't even described 10% of the things this game offers. Go and try it for yourself... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: frogcrazyant1
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 1, 2009 4:22 pm PT
Review:  This game is great, but there was a few things that was holding me back to give a 10 to this game. 
 To review this game, i will do the pros and cons, and the achievements for the people that like 
 achievements.
  
  -Pros
  *The Graphics are Delicious
  *The Missions seem endless, there is always something to do.
  *The World is very, very large 
 and fun to explore
  *The Storyline is very deep
  *You have a choice of what You would like to specialize in.
  *You can change the diffuculty (Con-Still 
 pretty hard)
  
  -Cons
  *The game is VERY HARD
  *This might have been on my game only, but when I walked in another direction my game seemed very 
 laggy when i walked to the left a little but i dont know if that was my game because i bought it 
 used.
  *Your Ammo is very important, and if you get carried away with shooting, you pretty much just screwed 
 up your game. Unless you specialzed in Melee, but still for the faraway enemies you are screwed.
 
  *Some small enemies take forever to kill! (Vicious Dog took for 12 headshots?)
  
  Achievements-
  These achievements are easy to get if you follow the storyline and do a little 
 extra to get either bad karma or good karma (or even medium karma)
  The way to get most achievements is to do the missions, which are al 20 g and some are 40g. I havent 
 got too too much yet but im in the 200 for this game because i just got it 2 days ago but yea.
 
  
  Very Fun game, like Oblivion, just current time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: andy180084
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 28, 2009 9:05 pm PT
Review:  Many people get turned off by this game simply because of the start. Yeah at first the game is 
 pretty confusing with vats in all, but eventually you get the hang of it. Another complaint people 
 issued is the difficulty, but I cant understand why because you can change it at any time you want. 
 This game is packed full with well over 40 hours of gameplay and many interesting locations. The 
 graphics, considering the size of the game, are amazing. Yeah the game isn't as good as Oblivion 
 in the eyes of many, but really now Oblivion beats just about every RPG. The fact you can have 
 companions and complete missions based on your morality is even more creative. Operation Anchorage, 
 fallout 3's expansion, is also a must. All this combined with a great storyline and sidemissions 
 makes this game one of my top ten favorite games of all time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: simon_levane
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 28, 2009 8:52 pm PT
Review:  "Fallout 3" is one of the great gargantuan games. It's very similar to the Bethesada's own "Elder 
 Scrolls" titles, but with the genre being the main difference. The game's story is huge and can 
 be played out in many ways. It gives the player "choice" which is something that lots of games 
 do, but not with this much freedom. If you've played "Fable" or "Elder Scrolls", than you'll get 
 the idea. Like those games, this is an epic RPG with plenty to do and see. The amount of decisions 
 depends on you and how you make them also depends on you. Wanna be a bad guy? You can. But if you 
 want to be the noblest of all heroes, you can do that as well. 
  
  Graphically, this is a game that stands up with "Gears of War" and "Bioshock", but the art design 
 is its own. The future presented here is stark and graphic. The amount of violence, profanity and 
 adult content is huge. It's not a game for kiddos. And you don't have to be an RPG nut to like 
 it. The game is more accessible than most of its ilk by being more action-driven. If you love games 
 like the ones I've mentioned in this review, than you'll have a hoot with "Fallout 3". 
::::::

::::::
UserName: juggalojay845
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 28, 2009 12:03 pm PT
Review:  I wasn't sure what to expect from this game. All I heard was that the gameplay was like TES IV: Oblivion 
 except that there was no magic, it takes place in the future,& you use guns. When I played the game 
 I realized theres more to it than that. You start off being born & create your character (skin color, hair, facial 
 hair, etc...) . Then you become a baby & there isnt much in that just stat assigning. Then it skips 
 to your 10th birthday (not for long) . You skip to 16 to take your aptitude test. Then 19 when you 
 finally leave Vault 101 & travel the world. I don't want to spoil anything so I wont go into much 
 detail, but from the start the graphics will leave you mezmorized. Walking through the desolate 
 wastes of Washington. The game is hard to pick up on with the way its designed. And if you find the 
 game too difficult you can lower the difficulty like in Oblivion, but in my opinion it makes the 
 game less fun. Some of the creatures in this game are weird or utterly disturbing. Such as giant 
 fire ants that actually light you on  list just never 
 ends) . Then as you level up you can choose perks which alter the gameplay depending on which ones 
 you choose. The game overall is fantastic & there shouldnt be any second thought about buying it. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: amxbox
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 27, 2009 5:20 pm PT
Review:  Man the gore in this game is amazing! I mean they put great detail to the animation of blowing 
 people up, eye balls, heck even a heart will blast out at you! I didnt think they would allow a 
 game to have gore that realistic in a game but i think it makes it amazing. The game is a pretty 
 hefty length but it not the quests that will entertain you for long, its the varity of crazy wacky 
 things you can do. You can blow people up just by punching them which is really cool or you can 
 blow someones head up just by shooting their foot which makes no sense at all but it is soooooooooo 
 awesome. 
  
  Anyways besides the gore this game is amazing in every other aspect, the game play is amazing and 
 entertaining, visuallly stunning, and controls are easy to understand if you have played oblivion. 
 This game is like oblivion in many ways, so if you loved oblivion then you will surely love this 
 game. The main difference is... well fallout takes place in the future, no magic, and is a whole 
 lot more violent and combat is more involved. Bethesda greatly improve fallouts combat compared 
 to oblivion. For example in fallout you have VATS, a targeting system that allows you to attack 
 foes in slow motion and acurately. And it shows you the over the top gory visuals which makes this 
 game never get old. You can target a person and aim at their head with your gun and in slow-mo 
 you can see the bullet literatly go thru their head and explode!!!!! which if you dislike gore 
 in games or dont want your kids to be exposed to really graphic images then do not get them this 
 game. Also you have a great charater development system kind of similar to the fable games, do 
 go things and your good, or be an evil monster and kill innocent people or be neutral and moderate 
 your good deeds with the bad ones, so you have a choice to make... the most fun and easiest one 
 is being evil. being evil is so much easier than being good or neutral so if you want the easy 
 way out then being evil is for you.
  
  well to sum it all up for you people this game is down right amazing and i think if you have the 
 oppertunity to play or buy this game.... DO IT! Their is nothing negative about this game, it will 
 appeal to all gamers and you cant say anything bad about this game. The only thing i can think 
 of is the glitiches and the random freezing which make it annoying at times but Bethesda fixes 
 the problem by making patches from time to time to fix the minor glitches and bugs. So buy this 
 game now and enjoy!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: j2johnson
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 26, 2009 6:04 pm PT
Review:  This game is an unbelievably massive endeavor. Think twice before diving in. Even if you're only 
 doing the bare minimums to get your 360 Achievement Points, plan on taking a LONG TIME getting 
 them all with this game. This feels like about 3 games in one. It is seriously massive. You'll 
 get every penny's worth out of your $59.99 for this game.
  
  As if it weren't big enough, it also offers downloadable content from the 360 Marketplace. So far 
 they've only released one additional mission that you can purchase for around 800 Microsoft points... 
 which is about $10 bucks, I think. It's worth another 4 trophies / 100 Achievement Points. It's 
 nothing to write home about, but it's pretty cool.
  
  The things that really stuck with me were the people I encountered throughout the game's multiple 
 paths, storylines and outcomes. They're almost all completely different from one another. Yes, 
 there is obviously some level of cloning the programmers had to do, and yes, you will recognize 
 a lot of the same Voice-Actors trying to create different characters with those clones but I thought 
 it was very well done. It's all easily forgivable, especially when compared to Rainbow 6: Vegas 
 1 & 2 using the same old bad-guy voice recordings that I would swear date back to the original 
 Splinter Cell. Anyway, I was really impressed with the writing, voice-acting, and the work done 
 on each character. For having so much going on, it all comes off as very well thought out and engaging. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NT082786
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 26, 2009 3:36 pm PT
Review:  The grim post-apocalyptic world and the bizarre underground life presented during the first couple 
 of hours of gameplay, where every choice seems to unveil more of the plot or change it to another 
 direction, creates a very immersive experience. However, not long after you leave your underground 
 life, the game becomes so big and loose that the core essence of the game dissipates and every 
 choice you make is less relevant to the outcome of the game.
  
  Fallout's 3 quests are trite, corny and sometimes simply boring and/or uninteresting. Having a 
 whole world of monotonous errands, accompanied with slow and repetitive conversations with void 
 characters doesn't really compel you to accept quests, which is what gives the game it's life length.
 
  
  However, as an RPG game, what really keeps you on playing is the compulsory urge to level up and 
 improve your abilities and for that you need to kill things. That being said, the combat system 
 in Fallout 3 is really fun thanks to the VATS system, the weapon repair system, the restriction 
 of items to carry around, the health system which can get you sick with radiation or addicted to 
 pills and other RPG mechanics, makes survival engaging.
  
  But, since trying to avoid quests, that most of them take place inside dungeons (inside buildings, 
 sewer systems, mines, etc) and not the wasteland, leaves only the quests that pertain to the core 
 of the story, which renders the game very small and linear.
  
  Big and open yet loose and trite or tight and small, but linear and short. It is up to you to follow 
 the corny and weak side stories or adhere to the more concise and engaging central plot if you 
 don't mind leaving the majority of the wasteland unexplored.
  
  Was this fault of the writers and programmers or is it simply impossible to sustain the essence 
 in a game this big? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sonic_Wolfe
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 26, 2009 9:20 am PT
Review:  Creating a world that is solvent and absorbing is challenge enough in itself. Allowing a player 
 to roam around freely within the confines of a set gaming world is also another of the gaming market's 
 greatest illusions. It is not about how much freedom you are afforded, but how well disguised the 
 limits of your freedom are. When a player is left with the choice of following one set path over 
 another, surely there is somewhere within the game that remains inevitable?
  Bethesda games brought us Oblivion in 200* and it brought with it a whole new meaning to the term 
 "free roaming". Players were presented with a massive area of land that was fully traversable. 
 There were towns scattered around, tunnels, caves, lakes, ruins and all manner of hills and scenery. 
 Once again in 2008 Bethesda has recreated their flair for scale with Fallout 3.
  Fallout is by far a new series; it has been around for over a decade. Within Fallout lays a rich 
 and bizarre post-nuclear apocalyptic world. Humanity has been rent asunder by our own machination 
 of war, and Fallout 3 is Bethesda's imaging of this world. Unlike most RPG games, Fallout is unconventional 
 and quite unique in style. Obviously it has greatly evolved from the top-down 2d graphics of yesteryear 
 and has blossomed into a fantastic experience.
  There is not that much to say about the game play of Fallout 3 despite it being a game. I would 
 say that it is quite safe to state that Fallout 3 is an experience more than a game. There is a 
 very large world out there in Washington D. C., a scarred and treacherous world. Begging for exploration, 
 there are only two small caveats to this, time and patience, lots of it.
  Deciding that it wants to be a first person shooter, Fallout feels very fluid to begin with. You 
 can play the game in a very clumsy third person mode, but you would lose a lot of the feel the 
 FPS mode has. The story sees you, the character, being released from your underground home into 
 the wide world and America's capital. You are then tasked with finding you wayward father. The 
 game is very point A to point B; it is how you fill this gap that makes all the difference. Wander 
 off the beaten track and you may come across a band of scavengers' intent on looting you. Perhaps 
 the rundown building on the horizon may hold some needed supplies? The game is anything but linear 
 in its execution.
  So, if the game is that big with so much to do, why do I feel the need not to go into great depth? 
 Like I have said before, it's an experience and I am not sure that I could fairly review the game 
 based on its presentation. I will say this; it is not for those looking for a quick fix or a shallow 
 experience. Fallout 3 will demand almost all of your spare time if you let it.
  Stunning graphically, and sounding splendid. Fallout 3 is hypnotic and deeply atmospheric. Aimless 
 wandering is a reward in itself.
  Bethesda has made an astounding achievement here and Fallout 3 is far more refined experience than 
 the sickeningly massive Oblivion, but by no means lack substance. The broken world you are given 
 the freedom to play with is a gratifying look back to RPGs of old, and this re-imagining of an 
 old classic series is more than welcome in the current generation of games.
  I would feel bad for scoring this game any less than perfect simply because it is sheer gaming 
 gold. I'll say it a third time, Fallout 3 isn't a game it's an experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: M4Ntan
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 26, 2009 9:09 am PT
Review:  Fallout 3 is an amazing RPG and is a revolution in the series. Though it is now 3D changing from 
 its counter parts, fallout 3 still feels like one of the games in the series. Though it has a short 
 story and once you beat it, you can't go back, it still is a really enjoyable game. I sugest you 
 complete all the side quests and find all the collectables and cool things before you beat the 
 game, so you can know what to do for next play through and just because you will want to anyway 
 if you enjoy this game. But, there is a way to do side quests after you beat the game, save a seperate 
 file before the lyon's leader's daughter ask you if your ready, once you beat the game you can 
 go back to the save and do the side quests you missed. overall fallout 3 is a great game and a 
 buy or strong rent. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: harley89bo
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 26, 2009 8:36 am PT
Review:  This is a game that I did not really expect much from when I even bought it. It looked cool, but 
 I had no idea what Bethesda had in store. From the very start you are put into a world of very 
 little hope. Hope for glory? Hope for Money? No. Hope to survive. Early in the game you are forced 
 to watch your equipment and basically do anything to survive. There really doesn't seem to be a 
 line of right and wrong here. You really feel as if you are alone and no one is ever going to help 
 you, which is true for most of the game. Every aspect any RPG lover looks for, is here. Customization, 
 stats (only can level up to lv20) , and more exploration than most can handle. The game play is 
 top notch, with a first person shooter vibe and also the VATS system which is more enjoyable than 
 it looks. Everything about the experience of Fallout 3 is great. My only real compliant that good 
 hinder this game is the story, or lack of character attachment. I did not care about anyone in 
 the game, not even Dad. But I also think this may be because you are force to think so much about 
 yourself and surviving that you lose all emotion after hours of playing in the apocalyptic D. C. 
 In short, this is a must buy for all RPG fans and anyone looking for a true RPG in the sense. They 
 don't get any better than this. Enjoy your depression.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: conn876
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 25, 2009 2:22 pm PT
Review:  Fallout 3 keeps the elements that kept Oblivion going and also introduces some new ones. the game 
 takes place in a futuristic Washington D. C., now called the Capital Wasteland. The new VATS targeting 
 system is helpful and the effects are good. The dialogue and story are both good. The only thing 
 that keeps this game back is some glitches, but otherwise it lives up to the hype. Highly recommend 
 for RPG and FPS players. The game starts off with the basic tutorials needed then leaves you free 
 to do whatever. Like all good RPG, your choices affect the people you meet and your reputation. 
 the side quests give you something to do besides the main story line. the weapons and armor in 
 the game are unique and look stunning.
  Combined with the good soundtrack and the battle sequences, fallout 3 is one of the most amazing 
 games you will ever play. 
  A solid 9.5-10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cartman19191918
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 25, 2009 2:17 pm PT
Review:  I've played a lot of games in my life, so if i were to say that a game is in my top 10, or even 
 my top 5, would be saying something i meant seriously. That being said, Fallout 3 would definitely 
 be in my top three games ever played. Along with Resident Evil 4, and Star Wars: Knights of the 
 Old Republic. I logged approximately 65 or so hours into this game, including the new Downloadable 
 Content Operation Anchorage, and i wouldn't take any single hour back. 
  
  Realism can mean many different things, and in terms of the mutants and the ghouls, I'd say Fallout 
 3 is a very unrealistic game in regards to present day events. But if you're talking about the 
 way that random encounters with strange people throughout the game play out, and how the scenery 
 is depicted for a Post Nuke Washington D. C. I'd say it's an extremely realistic game. I mean let's 
 face it, we're talking about a fictitious game here, and besides the monuments and museums/etc, 
 that are the same in present day D. C., it's also a fictitious city. 
  
  The graphics are outstanding, whether it be the character models, or the overall building design, 
 it's beautiful. There's so much ground to cover throughout the game, and hopefully if you decide 
 to thoroughly explore, (which i recommend, because it's amazing the different places you can find) 
 Even after 50 hours of constant exploration, i guarantee you'll still be discovering new locations. 
 It would probably take approximately twenty or so real life minutes to walk from side to side of 
 the whole map, which would seem frustrating and tiresome after awhile, but the ability to warp 
 back to pre-discovered places makes life so much easier. 
  
  I'm not going to go over everything, because hell, i it'll get read that much anyway, but it gave 
 me something to do! I admit, after about 65 hours, and after completing all of the main quest, 
 the side quests, and the DLC, i have grown a little tired of it.. But in March of April whenever 
 they decide to release the new DLC, I'll definitely be logging a few more hours in! In conclusion, 
 i recommend this game entirely, for anyone that likes.. well.. games. Good job Bethesda. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joshua6775
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 25, 2009 10:45 am PT
Review:  The only reason I knocked points from the score I gave this game is because it does have some minor 
 framerate issues, but the game i so completely massive and gorgeous that issues such as those are 
 bound to happen.
  
  Bethesda software, the studio responsible for Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion, has really gone above 
 and beyond anything I've ever imagined possible in an RPG with Fallout 3. Picture a world as immersive 
 and open as that of Oblivion's was, only set in futurictic Washington D. C post nuclear fallout 
 2077. It's Mad-Max crossed with Oblivion, crossed with elements of first person shooter, crossed 
 with "Oh My God, this game is amazing". 
  
  This game has intense violence and gore, so it is definitely not one for the kids to be playing, 
 there are some minor curse words in the dialogue and your character can get addicted to pain meds 
 used in the game. It is definitely M for mature for many reasons, but those old enough should check 
 it out immediately.
  
  I found the control interface to be similar to Oblivion, except for the shooter elements which 
 can be a little wonky and frustrating at first. The V. A. T. S shooting system is BRILLIANT. That 
 is worth the price of admission alone. for those who don't klnow what that is, I suggest doing 
 as much research as possible to get current on it, because it changes everything!! 
  
  This game is a must have. Trade in games for it if you have to, just pick it up immediately. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The252Man
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 24, 2009 11:52 am PT
Review:  This is an amazing game with a truly unique playing style. At first glance it looks like a first 
 person shooter similar to Halo 3, Call of Duty, or Unreal Tournament. This is true to a certain 
 extent. Now it is possible to play through the game with this mindset without using the smartly 
 developed V. A. T. S. system, but who could not love pausing the action, in a matrix sort of way, 
 and seeing a goons head blown off? So Fallout 3 adds the RPG essence of leveling up with traits 
 and S. P. E. C. I. A. L attributes. Through these two elements Fallout 3 becomes a hybrid for almost 
 all audiences to enjoy.
  I must admit the learning curve and adaption to this standout game may take a while. I am an avid 
 RPG gamer along with my collection of shooter titles such as Halo, and Call of Duty so I was very 
 confused on the mindset I should have while playing this game. Do I run in guns blazing or check 
 my surroundings for hidden items. I was overwhelmed with the amount of detail put into the environment 
 around me in this game. It felt as if I would never be able to complete this game due to the limitless 
 areas to explore. Looking back on it I am very pleased with this idea. This game is such a gem 
 and breakthrough that I don't want it to ever end.
  This is the type of game that can never repeat itself and grow repetitive. The 60 bucks for this 
 game is well worth it due to the fact that one can never grow tired of the game play, and I look 
 forward to the new additions such as Anchorage. 
  This game truly shows the growth of video games and represents itself well.
  For the ones who 
 scrolled to the end of this review, all you need to know is, BUY THIS GAME! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: masterchef56
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 24, 2009 10:46 am PT
Review:  Fallout 3 was a great game. It has many cool ideas, such as the Fat Man. I mean that thing was 
 cool. And it also has great graphics, and great controls. I never had any problem with them, and 
 the game has a great camera. One of the biggest things I missed in the game was the fact that there 
 wasn't a screen where you could see your guy. I know, I know, It's more realistic and all, but 
 seriously, I want to see how my guy looks. The lighting and shading in this game is so incredible 
 I never get to see how my guy really looks. Another thing is the lack of cities. There's no more 
 than 5 cities where theres decent shops, bars and people to talk to. Another thing is, is your 
 can't really mess around with any of the civilians in Fallout3. If you do, the ENTIRE town will 
 be after you forever, and sometimes you can't even go back to the city. Because of the lack of 
 cities and ability to mess around like in Oblivion, there's really almost nothing to do after you've 
 beaten the main story line. Well, the only thing you can do is make another profile, or re-load 
 your save. Even then, the only thing you can do is complete all the quests and there, you're done. 
 Don't think wrong of me, thinking that I'm not really creative therefore I can't come up with anything 
 to do. No, I come from playing 650+ hours on Oblivion. I have one character. So, in other words, 
 I was really disappointed that Bethesda didn't take that much time as they did for Oblivion for 
 after beating the game content, and yes, I know that there's content out where you can have a higher 
 level profile, but to be honest, I'm not going to buy it. By now, i've lost almost all intrest 
 in this game. But, in other words, this game is worth 60$. I enjoyed it a lot while I liked it, 
 and while I liked it, I loved it. The only reason why I never really like this is that I thought 
 I could spend as much time as I could for Oblivion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hoffses420
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 24, 2009 10:12 am PT
Review:  It was a good game but not great, theres a few things in this game that prevent me from saying 
 its better than oblivion, 1 the radiation, id be way out in the middle of no wheres and id get 
 radiation sickness it sucked because every little thing gave you radiation,2 citys not enough of 
 them, id have to much stuff and radiation sickness and id need to go get healed and unload and 
 i couldn't because the only nearby city was still pretty far away it was a pain in the butt,3 it 
 was pretty hard especialy with the ammo id always be running out and dying it sucked plus there 
 was to many boundarys all the debree and rubble would just get in the way you couldnt go enough 
 places because all this junk was in the way it was ok but not great bethseda could have done alot 
 better, now oblivion was a work of art there were a few things i would have changed but not much 
 im tellin yeah that was a good game possibly one of there best so like i said good but could have 
 done better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bentheosteopath
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 24, 2009 7:21 am PT
Review:  Loving the game. Awesome. Almost as good as fallout 2. Easy to navigate, quick to pick up, hard 
 to master (if ever possible) . A great RPG with an engaging story. VATS fighting system works as 
 well as previous fallouts, especially when you perform a critical hit. The slow motion sequences 
 are great. Don'y just fight unless you are using a melee weapon it saves on ammo which is a must 
 at the beginning. There is a huge world to explore your way around which will take many hours, 
 though it will not seen so. be careful, otherwise you might find your dinner has gone cold and 
 you partner has left you. plot is good, very open ended at the beginning, as you get tasks to perform 
 things start to hot up. my favorite part of the game so far has to be blowing the heads clean off 
 the raiders. its great fun. good luck. i know i am going to need it. Lots of replay value. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: natetodamax
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 23, 2009 8:21 am PT
Review:  I'll be honest by saying that at first, I didn't care for Fallout 3. I had not played the original 
 games, so I really didn't know what the whole series was about and whether or not I would actually 
 enjoy the game. A few gameplay videos from Youtube later, and I'm now on my second character clocking 
 in at over 50 hours of playtime on this masterpiece.
  
  Fallout 3 is a post-apocalyptic shooter from , the masterminds of Oblivion, which I am ashamed 
 that I haven't had a chance to play. Although the game is largely based off of Oblivion, Fallout 
 3 still manages to maintain a healthy dosage of the Fallout material. Although some things don't 
 work so well as planned, the game is still a masterpiece from beginning to end. The game basically 
 starts with you getting born. Literally. At this stage, you get to pick whether you are a male 
 or a female, and then you get to customize you face with a ludicrously long list of things to choose 
 from. After that, your mother will go into cardiac arrest, and you will be rushed out of the delivery 
 room. The game then introduces you to the controls when you are just 1 years old. The game then 
 takes you through your 10 year old, 16 year old, and finally, 19 year old years, where you are 
 awaken and learn that your father has escaped the Vault. After learning this, you give chase.
 
  
  Believe it or not, the graphics are a pretty big part of Fallout 3. As soon as you leave the Vault 
 for the first time in your life, you'll notice your eyes adjusting to the glare of the sun, which 
 you haven't seen before. Once you gain focus, you will be amazed at the sheer size of the environment 
 in front of you. Everything that you see in front of you at this point you can travel to. The view 
 distance in the game in just amazing. You can see forever into the distance. You can almost always 
 see the and no matter where you are, and you can say to yourself, "hey, I've been there." Anyway, 
 many would consider Fallout 3's graphics to be too bland, as most of the things in the game world 
 is a shade of either light yellow, gray, or brown. This matters not, as the size of the world truly 
 makes up for this. Besides the color of the environment, everything else looks great. However, 
 there are some bugs that are present regarding the visuals. First of all, pop-ups can occur at 
 any time. Once in a while you will be wandering through the wasteland looking for places to discover 
 (more on that later) and suddenly a building will pop into view in front of you. While this isn't 
 a huge issue, as I've only seen it occur a few times in the many hours I've played this game, it 
 still can get a little annoying.
  
  The main part of Fallout 3 is obviously how the game plays out on your console. It's truly remarkable 
 how much stuff crammed on to one small disc, and it's amazing how they managed to make most of 
 it work. The game is essentially a  if you can imagine 
 that. The game can be played in either first or third person. I found that the only useful thing 
 the third person view offers is a better view of what's around you and if anything is sneaking 
 up behind you. The animations for the running in this point of view is disgusting, to be honest. 
 It looks as if your character is sliding across the ground. Hell, you can even run sideways while 
 moving in the forward animation. Picture that. Also, it's near impossible to shoot while in third 
 person, as the crosshair is so small that Ted Williams wouldn't be able to see it. You'll encounter 
 a good amount of combat in the game, whether you want to or not. Random encounters don't seem to 
 happen just for the heck of it. Instead, they all seem to have a purpose. Getting attacked by Raiders? 
 There must be a camp somewhere nearby. Super Mutants giving you trouble? They must be holed up 
 in a nearby building or some other structure. The only enemies you will encounter randomly without 
 a purpose would be small animals, like viscous dogs and radscorpions. They all just seem to be 
 wandering around, looking for something to maul.
  
  Bethesda mentioned multiple times that radiation played a big part in the game, although I hardly 
 seemed to notice it while playing. Whenever you are getting irradiated, a meter in the top right 
 will show you how many RADS you have and also how many you are currently taking. The higher amount 
 of RADS you have, the more your stats are affected. As you become more irradiated, your stats are 
 affected and degrade. However, because RadX (radiation resistance pills) and Rad Away are so common, 
 it's nearly impossible to die from radiation in Fallout 3.
  
  Just like in real life, your weapons and armor degrade over time and must be repaired. When your 
 weapons degrade, they do less damage and can jam up. When your armor degrades, the amount of damage 
 it resists lowers. You can repair your equipment by using spare parts from another copy of said 
 item, or by paying a Wastelander to do so.
  
  Also, you regain health in Fallout 3 by either sleeping, seeing a Wasteland doctor, or by eating 
 foods, drinking water, and using Stimpaks. Stimpaks will be your best friend throughout the game 
 because they heal the most health (besides sleeping) . Food is so common in Fallout 3 that it's 
 unlikely you will ever run out of it. Chems (basically drugs) are also available in the game. They 
 can either increase how many action points you have, the amount of damage you dish out, and such. 
 If you take to much of a certain Chem, you could get addicted to it and your stats will suffer 
 unless you take more of that specific Chem.
  
  Enemies can range from too easy, like the bloatfly, to very difficult, like the Super Mutant Behemoth, 
 to just plain annoying as hell, like the Deathclaw. Every creature you encounter in the game is 
 unique in it's own way. Bloatflys float around in the air spitting some weird stuff at you. Super 
 Mutant Behemoths use their size to crush their foes. Deathclaws use their speed and massive claws 
 to slice up their opponents. Of course, these aren't the only enemies in the game. The general 
 combat in Fallout 3 is a bit clunky. You can't aim down the sights, so trying to kill anything 
 in real time can be a bit annoying. A major part of the combat in Fallout 3 revolves around V. A. T. S, 
 which is an acronym for Vault-Tec Assisted Targeting System. Basically what this means is while 
 in combat you have the option to pause time and select different body parts on your foes to fire 
 at. After selecting your choices, time resumes, and you get a cinematic showing your character 
 firing at the selected body parts. Logically, one would think that shooting at the head is the 
 best option. In some cases, it isn't. When facing a Deathclaw, the thing you want to shoot at is 
 their leg. This cripples their leg, making it so they can't sprint at you anymore. Every body part 
 also has a percentage next to it. This percentage is your chance of hitting that body part. This 
 means that sometimes, the opponents head might have a 12% next to it, while their arm might have 
 an 81% next to it. Hitting their arm is not only the more logical choice in this situation, but 
 it can also break their gun and/or prevent them from aiming should they pick up another one.
  
  Wandering around the Wasteland is a big part of what makes Fallout 3 so great. I found it oddly 
 satisfying going through buildings and checking every box and crate that was inside. It really 
 gave me the feeling that I was scavenging to survive. Believe it or not, there are over 100 unique 
 locations to discover in the game. Whenever you get near a new location, you'll get a message saying 
 that you've discovered it, as well as some EXP. Once you've discovered a location, you can use 
 your PIP-Boy 3000 to automatically fast-travel to and from it, which is very handy.
  
  I realize that I haven't mentioned the PIP-Boy 3000 at all so far. This very handy device serves 
 as the menu system for Fallout 3. It allows you to check your stats, skills, perks, status (cripples 
 limbs, how much radiation you have absorbed) , weapons, armor, health items, miscellaneous crap, 
 local map, world map, quests, notes, and radio stations, as well as some other things. You can 
 also equip things through this device and assign Hot Keys to your items, which allow you to switch 
 to those items without having to consult your PIP-Boy. Thankfully, the game pauses when you enter 
 the PIP-Boy, so you can even use it as a pause menu.
  
  The sound in Fallout 3 I would have to say is a mixed bag. First of all, you have a radio on your 
 Pip-Boy, which is very nice. There are three radio stations to listen to, and they are Enclave 
 Radio, Galaxy News Radio, and Agatha's Station. Galaxy News Radio is easily the best, as it plays 
 real music and the DJ Three Dog updates you on stuff around the Wasteland which is nice. I was 
 a bit disappointed by the gunfire, as most of the weapons in the game sound like cap guns or toys. 
 Probably the biggest problem I had with this aspect of the game is how decided to recycle the voices 
 over and over again. I remember once I was in a metro talking to a gang called the Family and noticed 
 that two of the people had the same voice actor. I left and headed to another place and noticed 
 that about five or so people had that same voice actor as well. It does get annoying after awhile, 
 because it makes you feel as if there are no unique people out there. The actual voice acting is 
 nice though, although any emotion they show is destroyed by the fact that the characters don't 
 move when they talk (except for their mouths) .
  
  All in all, Fallout 3 is one of the most amazing games I have ever played. really set the bar high 
 for first-person role play games, and revived the series in such a good direction that I will most 
 likely never play the previous games. I think that anyone who is a fan of FPS games should check 
 this out, and likewise for those RPG fans. You will not be disappointed, as this is one hell of 
 a ride. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mynameishihi
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 22, 2009 9:21 am PT
Review:  Something about a wasteland with acid, super mutints and traders is appealing at first but after 
 a while it can get a little boring.
  In this game you start of as a boy or girl you get to chose. You get to play around in a play pen 
 and chose your streghnth's such as endurance and that sort of stuff. 
  I'll start off with the good about the game as i siad you start off being born then go to 10, 16 
 and eventually 19 in all this time you are in a secret tunnel thing run by your friend's father 
 no one is allowed in or out. This part of the game dos'nt last long but it is pretty fun. After 
 that you escape to find your father who also escaped however all the land was hit by some nukes 
 or something and you have to find EVERYTHING and this is where the bad comes in.
  When you have such a cool game you want to be able to go into a town and by stuff and have fun 
 with the game but having to walk for like 5-10 minutes every tome you want to find something is 
 so annoying that it makes you not want to come back and play some more. One thing that they could 
 have done to make the whole game 10x better is if thef put so me super cool vehicals and maybe 
 some buildings that have rewards like guns and stuff without having to use all your amo and life 
 killing 15 raiders. The last bad thing is that you have a minimum of what you can carry and if 
 you get hurt you have to limp to megatown to get a doctor wich can take like 10-15 minutes.
  In concllusion if your looking for a fun game to entertane for a week or two then pick up a copy 
 of fallout 3 for the x box 360!!!
  (sorry for bad spelling lol) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vivaldi1000
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 19, 2009 10:59 am PT
Review:  Traveling the American Wastelands listening to the Ink spots. I truly appreciated the atmosphere 
 whilst walking past a dead ghoul and a man who had just had his pants blown to bits. Fallout 3 
 is nothing but a mess; it is gloomy and the world is miserable with no hope in the character's 
 drab, 1940's reality... Bethesda has yet again created another expansive, comprehensive yet post-apocalyptic 
 world for you to live in. Beautiful...
  
  It is ugly as ghouls wander and super mutants lynching some adventurer. Nearly everything is a 
 danger. You can't even escape the danger of a puddle: most water is radioactive. I believe that 
 this was all intentional and that Fallout 3 is truly splendid in it's own, dismal way.
  
  2 things that are important to me...
  
  Gameplay: V. A. T. S is good as it is not able to be constantly 
 used: you are therefore relieved to have enough A. P when a bunch of fire ants are coming at you. 
 It is satisfying when you finally work out the password for a bloody computer, all to open a door 
 or release a robot who kills (or attempts to kill) any enemies in the area. One of them started 
 on me...
  
  Music: Scary... I was to scared let the music (not on the radio) play. I had to result to the repetitive 
 radio music. It's a good thing really and Inon Zur has achieved his aim... Not sure what that was 
 though. Otherwise, the jazz music is ok but there isn't much of it. Bob Crosby gets a bit annoying.
 
  
  So buy this game. I didn't play it long because it didn't satisfy me as much as Oblivion. I also 
 don't really enjoy games which mostly consist of shooting some sort of deformed creature.
  
  
  Happy gaming!
  
  Vivaldi1000 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vault-boy
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 21, 2009 5:09 pm PT
Review:  In just one word it would be... WOW!!! This is an amazing game!!! at first, i thought it was boring, 
 just walking around in a cave with no weapons and then walking around wastelans with a pistol, 
 but once i got the hang of it I couldn't let the controller down! I can not stop playing to save 
 my life! It has pretty good graphics, awesome customization, free roam, cool guns, great skills, 
 and LOTS of perks. the story sucks me in and wont spit me back out! Also, the power amour looks 
 cool beyond anything I've ever seen! I loved exploring the remains of DC, it looks just like i 
 think it would after a real fallout. the remains of buildings is incredibly real looking, and the 
 vaults look simply fantastic. The enemys where real cool, too. they range from super mutants to 
 evil members of a corrupt government. by far the best game ive ever played. 11/10
  
  ~War... War never changes...~ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cainetao11
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 21, 2009 10:17 am PT
Review:  Fallout 3 was my favorite game last year. Above MGS, GTA, and NHL09. I love hockey and I find myself 
 playing fallout more. As a person born in a Vault after the nuclear war that leveled our world, 
 the player is forced to venture out of the safe confines of vault 101 in search of his father, 
 who left abruptly. The emergence is rendered really well and gives a sense of seeing the outside 
 world for the first time. Out here one finds a Mad Max type world that is violent and forces only 
 the strong or cunning to survive. As an rpg, the choices to 7 catorgories and allotment of points 
 in these determines a strong starting point. As you venture through the Wasteland, your choices 
 in quests are going to affect your karma. Good or evil, nothing new by games standards. Yet it's 
 the interactions with the Wasteland inhabitants that make for some funny times with this epic. 
 In a town called Megaton you have Moira who owns the Craterside supply shop. Moira seems ditzily 
 happy and upbeat despite the state of the world. 
  Collecting loot is an addictive part of the game as well as necessary for survival. Aquiring armor 
 and weapons and ammo as well as food and health is paramount in this bleak world. The question 
 is how will you do it? Will you kill indescriminately or try to be a savior to those you can? Following 
 the main story is a breeze but in the side missions you will be able to explore this large destroyed 
 metropolis that was once D. C. Now that downloadable content is dropping for the 360 version, this 
 game keeps getting better. Combat can be done in FPS, TPS variety. But the V. A. T. S combat system 
 is a joy to be a part of. Watching your killing shot or blow decapitate your adversary is awesome. 
 All in all this is not an action game in the Gears or Resistance mode, but combat can get hectic 
 at times. Fallout 3 is a game you can play for months and hours at a time. If your fan of exploration, 
 loot collecting and wrpgs, than it is a must play.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: BFMVxX
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 20, 2009 3:01 pm PT
Review:  Fallout 3 was an iffy for me. I'm a big fan of 1 and 2 and I was a little worried about Fallout 
 3 but it turned out as my favorite game to date. Amazing graphics, beautiful score (musical) , and 
 a very lonely environment that really makes you feel like you are part of a wasteland, the remains 
 of a once-great country. The game maintains a very steady framerate with some moderate glitches 
 and bugs but they are very easy to overlook. A very large and diverse cast of characters, a large 
 amount of weapons, and some very smexy looking power armor :) keep me entertained longer than any 
 game has ever entertained me. 
  Plenty of locales can keep you exploring for a very long time. I just finally found all the places 
 in downtown DC, which did take a very long time. Bethesda really made a masterpiece with Fallout 
 3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShroudedEagle
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 19, 2009 2:48 pm PT
Review:  Okay so at first I wasn't going to buy this game due to so much games being on my "little" list 
 in the first place, but the more I saw of this game the more I wanted it. I can remember playing 
 this at my friend's house. That was the moment I thought "right, I really need to get this game."
 
  
  I'm glad I did change my mind in the end.
  
  The reason why that is because Fallout 3 is one of the best RPG Shooters out there, you can look 
 at all the screenshots and gameplay videos but you need to actually play this game and be prepared 
 to put some time into it to truly appreciate it. Nothing is more fun than blowing your enemy to 
 tiny bloody pieces with a Plasma Rifle while having the "Bloody Mess" Perk active. Of course, Fallout 
 3 isn't just about blowing people to tiny fleshy jelly bits, there's also much more for you to 
 do, like saving people from being blown to tiny fleshy jelly bits. Joking.
  
  Seriously though, there is a lot of variety in the quests that you do in Fallout 3, you can also 
 choose whatever character you want to be, from merely selecting your character's gender to actually 
 choosing whether your character is a saint, or a sinner. And for those who don't know already, 
 you'll be using this character to wander around the wastes of the area around and inside the ruins 
 of the American Capital, Washington DC, in search for, well, someone/somthing. Just trying to keep 
 this review as spoiler free as possible, however I really need to say that the ending, while isn't 
 bad compared to some other Xbox 360 games I have completed, it was still pretty disappointing for 
 an RPG. Probably wouldn't have been if it was just a Shooter, and other people who have completed 
 Fallout 3 will know what I am talking about.
  
  Now don't quote me on this, but I really think that Fallout 3 runs on a heavily tweaked Oblivion 
 engine, and people who have played both games will know what I'm talking about here, because there 
 is a lot of similarities between the two games, with the lockpicking, inventory, free exploring, 
 use whatever you want to kill whoever you want, etc. Only difference is that Oblivion isn't set 
 on a Post Apocalyptic Earth that was blown to hell because everyone decided to nuke eachother. 
 The graphics are just amazing and I don't even know how Bethesda have managed to create a massive 
 open world, with these graphics, not to mention all the game world's contents, including all the 
 explosions and gory moments that occur, without a terrible framerate drop. You can even see for 
 miles.
  
  Fallout 3's sounds are good, and I'm also including the dialogue system in here, it's definitely 
 an upgrade from Oblivion's dialogue, which was extremely poor in comparison. The soundtrack does 
 the Fallout series justice and I'm happy that they've kept with the Fallout tradition of playing 
 songs from the 40's, because the funny thing is some of them are so ironic in this game, it's hilarious. 
 I'm also impressed with the Power Armour related sound effects, including the effects it has on 
 a person's voice if they are wearing Power Armour, and the footsteps the armour makes. You can 
 tell Bethesda wanted to get this armour just right when it came to the sounds it made and the effects 
 it had on people who wore it, while at the same time trying their best to keep it as awesome as 
 it was in the other Fallout games.
  
  In short, whether you're an RPG or Shooter fan, you'll really love this game. Sure, it can be a 
 bit frustrating at times, depending on what difficulty you're on but you won't be able to put this 
 game down for long. Try not to get addicted to it! Just whatever you do, don't get the PS3 version 
 unless you're really not bothered about the DLC that's coming exclusively to the PC and Xbox 360 
 versions, but if you're DLC crazy like me, I'd recommend the PC version since it now has a lot 
 of user created content. The Xbox 360 version is still great fun for those who don't have a gaming 
 PC though. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Snakeinbake
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 18, 2009 10:09 pm PT
Review:  This game "Fallout 3", was a real surprise to me, it really was, the gaming was abit odd to standards 
 at first so, getting used to it was a bit strange.
  The games graphics gave great feeling as its played, theres not really any absence on surroundings 
 of course. Greatly detailed.
  Yes, the a. i. was abit dense, humorless, and ghostly at times, but theres things in the game that make 
 up for it. the different quests and life living policy that holds the game together. perfect example. Theres 
 not alot of life living policy seen in games today, it really spices things up as survival is the 
 main key. getting rest and keeping food and water in your system is a great addition. keeping weapons 
 in good condition is a great key.
   name it, they all had an un-doubtfully eye gripping 
 detail.
  game play is abit dull but not to worry, catching on is just the beginning. combat system stayed 
 abit dull. bigger guns more fun."keep that in mind"
  
  Its a game overall that should be played on days off from work or when being away is best thing, you 
 will get addicted.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: thebeast45
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 18, 2009 1:05 pm PT
Review:  The game starts you off as a newborn baby in a "vault", you grow up rapidly taking stops at age 
 10 and 16. At 19, your father somehow leaves the vault, making you, you guessed it, go and find 
 him. You leave the sealed doors of Vault 101 forever (perhaps) , and are shocked to find this brown, 
 lifeless, place called the Capital Wasteland. But the irony in this is the fact it looks beautiful 
 and stunning the moment I left the doors. From here on out you may do ethier miscellaneous or the 
 main quest. The main quest drags you in and is very fun to do, while the miscellaneous quests usually 
 help you after you complete them (do Power of Atom as soon as you get out of the vault, it is found 
 in town of Megaton) . This game is huge both gameplay wise and by physical standards. This game 
 will easily take ten or hundreds of hours away from your life, but those hours are well spent. 
 This game to me also had a moral that even in the worst of times, there is still good". Well thats 
 not all true since you can play neutral, good , or evil. I've played as all three, but mainly good. 
 But evil is still really fun. The game is mainly 1st person, but can be 3rd, which is by the way, 
 useless. The game has also added a strange thing called V. A. T. S. (Vault-Tec Assisted Targeting 
 System) , where you stop time and aim at enemies body parts. This was my favorite way to shoot as 
 it helped target sensitive spots on different enemies. The game uses Skills and Perks to help you 
 make it through the Wasteland and make it a bit more enjoyable, as blowing a whole person up. Yesss. 
 This game perfectly blends RPG with 1st person shooter together to make what I like to call a 1st 
 RPG. That is because this game should be on top of your list for RPG's this year. Your gonna love 
 it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shadygeneral
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 18, 2009 3:00 am PT
Review:  Where to start on this truly awesome game. It was an amazing experience that grabbed me & didn't 
 let go for an epic 40 or so hours. 
  
  Almost everyone will know about this game now so I'll skip most of the details. There's been a 
 war & the world is now an post apocalyptic wasteland. With your story taking place in Washington. 
 
  
  You start off in a an underground Vault where a small number of surviving humans have started their 
 own new civilization away from the harsh radiated & dangerous surface. You speed run through being 
 a baby, child & growing up. With tests being handed to you in an amusing manor to determine your 
 skills for when you become an adult. Your father leaves the Vault & you embark on a quest to find 
 him
  
  You first steps outside are equally breathtaking & devastating. The distance stretching as far 
 as the eye can see with ruins everywhere. Bethesda have done a remarkable job of creating what 
 you'd imagine an post apocalyptic wasteland would look like. Bridges have collapsed, rubble lays 
 everywhere & most buildings have either been destroyed completely or have only the support structure 
 showing with the odd brick still in place. 
  
  You will spend an alarming amount of time just happily exploring this wasteland, discovering little 
 pockets of life, uncovering stories, quests & just taking in the sites. Its arguably the games 
 main strength. True its mostly just brown, but there's enough variety to the landscape & areas 
 that are still built up to keep it more than interesting. The feeling of stumbling across a destroyed 
 prison or factory as well as little villages that have built up since the bombs dropped, each one 
 unique in look & style is one that never gets old & always delights. Its filled with a load of 
 interesting characters too, all with something to tell. All of this can be done while listening 
 to some surprisingly good, relaxing music & entertaining chatter on your little radio. 
  
  One place stands out in this wasteland at the beginning though called Megaton. Its huge & immediately 
 grabs your attention so you'll naturally head here first & where the excellent main story begins 
 that branches out in all types of weird & wonderful ways. This will either become your haven or 
 a place where you can earn a ton of caps (the in game currency) depending on if you take an evil 
 or good route through the game & is just the tip of the ice berg on stunning locations you'll visit.
 
  
  As predicted there's just as much life that wants to see you dead as there is that want to share 
 a story or place a quest upon your shoulders. These range from Raiders (the thieves of the wasteland) 
 to mutants, giant bugs & animals. 
  
  This is where the genius VATS comes into play. It basically allows you to quickly pause the action, 
 decide which enemy to strike, how often & which limb. You get action points to stack these actions 
 & determine how many attacks you can make in this mode. It then plays out for you in 3rd person 
 with the camera taking cinematic angles. Even more satisfying is when you have a gun, you can aim 
 at limbs & just watch them get blown off in lovely slow mo & a shower of blood. It somehow never 
 gets old & is delivered at the perfect pace to make sure you aren't willing it to get it over with. 
 
  
  The accuracy of your shots & damage is handled in the background, determined by your level, distance 
 & experience points placed on each of your abilities. This strikes the perfect balance between 
 the strategy & spectacle of turn based battles to immediacy of real time battles as you will still 
 be attacked while your moves are being played out. It even gives you the option of playing it as 
 a standard FPS game too if you want. However I wouldn't recommend it as the standard gunplay does 
 pale in comparison to proper FPS games. Plus its just not as fun & when the VATS is as brilliant 
 as it is there really is no reason not to use it. 
  
  You also have the excellent Pipboy which somehow makes the management of loads of stats, hundreds 
 of items, the quality of weapons & your characters well being a complete breeze. Its so intuitive 
 & never gets confusing. Its genuinely amazing how they have managed it.
  
  This is all before I even mention that there's literally thousands of items you can collect & sell 
 on if you wish it, the good standard of voice acting, the great & sometimes genuinely funny conversational 
 strands. The simple fact is, I could write a 100 page review on this & still not have done everything 
 this game has to offer justice, I've still not even seen a  of the games locations myself yet. 
 Which is why I may as well just stop now that the main points are out of the way. It may not be 
 quite perfect, due to the setting & nature of the game the majority of it is brown which is justified 
 & as I say still manages a hell of a lot of variety but it can become quite tiring depending on 
 you mood.
  
  The learning curve at the beginning is also incredibly steep. You may spend the first few hours 
 cursing the game, wondering what all the fuss is about. I did. But stick at it, eventually it clicks 
 & you'll never look back. Swallow your pride & reduce the difficulty level until you get into it 
 if you must, just give it the chance it deserves. 
  
  These are just small niggles though in one of the most amazing gaming experiences out there. Nothing 
 else to say now other than just to tell you to buy it. Buy it now!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: javiergf
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 17, 2009 10:04 pm PT
Review:  I'd start by saying that I don't like RPG generally, they tend to get very tedious for me over 
 time, but Fall out 3 is outstanding from beginning to end.
  Great graphics, voice acting (liam Neeson is your dad) , quest but above all" Oustanding immersion.
 
  The world feels so real and you begin to wonder if something like that would happen after world 
 war 3.
  It is also great that you can choose to be a good character or an evil one. I have to say that 
 I liked Oblivion but I just loved Fall out, maybe the only flaw is that the game looks a little 
 bit similar to Oblivion, but it was a great game too.
  If we were to find it another flaw, in my opinion would it be that we can only reach 20 levels, 
 it would have been nice to have a few more and the option to keep playing after finishing the game 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cannabis64
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 17, 2009 4:05 pm PT
Review:  From the moment you leave the vault, into the vast wastes this game is fun and hard to put down. 
 With a truly absurd amount of side quests to bolster the very short main story, including some 
 truly more epic then the main quest-line quest's, look up "Power of The Atom". This game keeps 
 you enthralled as you discover tons of locations both remote and localized, build your own weapons, 
 earn money "caps" doing odd-jobs, and kill at will. If it's questing that you enjoy you'll find 
 plenty of em, but if your like me and you get a kick outta finding strange places full of Gary 
 clones that only say "Gary" then I suggest finding every location you can and exploring it throughly, 
 as the little side notes on terminal journals are often hilarious and strange. Any way you like 
 to game is catered to in Fallout 3, all while it keeps its own uniqueness from the engine that 
 made Oblivion so great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DS-man
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 16, 2009 11:55 am PT
Review:  Graphics- the game graphics here are abusltly brilliant, they capture every moment, when looking 
 out at the wastelands you can see it all and if you have HD you'll been blown away by how much 
 it looks. gorgous.
  
  SOUND- most of the wastelanders have somthing to say, all with somthing intresting story, the sounds 
 of moaning and killing, shame the guns sound weak
  
  GAMEPLAY- The game can take between 10-100 hrs to complette, if you go through the story mode only 
 you'll be missing out on what Fallout3 is fully capable off, with its huge landscape, Be good or 
 evil, use a ray of differen weapons and craft your own, many options turn the way the story ends, 
 so make sure you complette all the side missions to get the best out of this game
  
  OVERALL- Fall out 3 is a must have game, if you played Oblivion and you liked that, youd totaly 
 love fallouts wise of freedom and exsplration, theres always somthing to do and somwere to go.... or 
 hide lol 
::::::

::::::
UserName: geminilovechild
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 16, 2009 9:23 am PT
Review:  Fallout 3 is a great game with a story that really draws you in, game play that is fun, and an 
 atmosphere that is one of the best I've seen in a long time.
  
  From the start of the game, you play as a character that you create and customize right down to 
 the thickness of the eyebrows. The story is of a young person, you can play as either male or female, 
 looking for the father that abandoned you. As you set off from you vault after a night of shear 
 craziness. You are thrust into a world that has ravaged and by a nuclear war with alarming and 
 often hilarious results. 
  
  The game play is intuitive and fun. People who play first person shooters will find the game challenging 
 yet easy to pick up and play. If your are more of a traditional RPG player then you will find that 
 the V. A. T. S system makes killing a glorious gleeful experience in gore, as well as a bit more forgiving. 
 The more OCD of us in will find ourselves racking our minds trying to find the best way to build 
 our characters, the rest of the world will find that the character building is easy and fun. 
 
  
  The world of Fallout 3 is varied and diverse. From the post apocalyptic desert wastelands, to the 
 dystopian cities, the world of Fallout 3 seems huge and alive. The world of Fallout 3 almost feels 
 as though it continues with or without you being there. Throughout your travels, you will meet 
 many interesting characters each with their own look, feel, wants, and needs. The interactions 
 with these characters will help to determine whether you're good or bad, and how other characters 
 will interact with you throughout the game.
  
  Fallout 3 is an amazing game that seems to get everything right. It has an interesting story, great 
 game play, and a varied world that never seems to become dull and always adds something new.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: FightinFinnigan
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 16, 2009 6:23 am PT
Review:  This by far was one of the greatest games ive ever played. I would love to see fallout 4 come out 
 from Bethesda. Great work guys keep it up. I would recommend this game to anyone who liked Oblivion. 
 This game was good to me because I thought it was not to hard but hard enough. Also i don't know 
 about you but it kept me coming back to it after I had beaten it already. I also liked the story 
 of the whole game because it really pulls you into the game. It's like a black hole, once you lay 
 your eyes on it you can't take them off it. One thing that i did not quite like was that when you 
 tried to stay still while stealing something from someone or something your guy would start to 
 move and then they would see you. But other then that it was a flawlessly constructed game in my 
 opinion and i would defiantly play it again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Poundage2794
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 16, 2009 4:29 am PT
Review:  I have much more of the main quest to complete, but that doesn't sadden me one bit. I will be able 
 to spend hours on end after that doing countless other side-quests. If you don't own this game 
 right now, purchase it! BTW, unless you want tons of extra memorabilia, just buy the normal edition; 
 the limited edition (the one in the lunchbox) doesn't come with any extra in-game content. Also, 
 if you're a money saver, maybe you should wait a while for the price to drop. I have a feeling 
 it will not to long from now. This game looked so cool to me, I had to get it at full price; I 
 didn't care. The environment, although desolate and barren, is beautifully crafted, and the combat 
 and dialogue is intense and immersing. So to sum it all up, this is a no-brainer; you must buy 
 this.
  
  P. S. Whoever said this game was "abysmal," I will castrate you with a butter knife. (JK, JK, JK!) 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShaneLyon
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 15, 2009 4:38 pm PT
Review:  The Greatest Game made Yet. Graphics sound story Gameplay Replayability.. Everything A 10... Only 
 Problem i have is the Level Cap At 20 Im already Level 18 and im 30 hours in and havent even done 
 any of the main quest.. Im playing on very easy now i was playing on very hard all the way through 
 untill i got to level 18.. i dont want to get to level 20 to soon.. As soon as im done playing this 
 time through im going to start again as a female then again as a bad guy Just i dont want to stop 
 and if it didnt have a level cap i prolly never would... Yes In the Wilderness Baddys do respond 
 Item upkeep is kinda fun in this game.. nothing like repairing your fave gun to 100%. this is a must 
 buy for most people... Its not as bad as the 1st 2 games Sexial Wise and even swearing... I love 
 this siries with all my heart and will play everyone that is made 
::::::

::::::
UserName: W8I8Z
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 13, 2009 1:30 pm PT
Review:  This game is absolutely amazing, but the reason I put down "Mixed Reactions" in my review is because 
 of the Level cap this game has. As an avid RPG player, I strive to go on quests and gain EXP in 
 order to build my character and make him stronger. I did not know there was a level cap at 20 and 
 I was purposly avoiding the main quest in order to do side quests and hunt down enemies, collect 
 ammo and discover new sites. I did all of this because each time you gained EXP, even for lockpicking. 
 But I was only 30% through the main quest when I hit level 20 (which is very low for RPG standards) 
 and I was stumped. I felt there was no point in going out of my way for side quests because there 
 was no real reward worth the effort. Yeah, I did enjoy raoming the wasteland but with no EXP and 
 minimal weapon rewards, I just decided to complete the main quest.
  
  The gameplay is very fluid and easy to master. There is the 8 key short key access to easily change 
 weapons or use health restoring items all while on the move. This makes it easy during battles 
 when one weapon doesnt have the effect you are looking for. There is a wide variety of weapons 
 available and with the "Repair" perks you can easily keep them in good condition for optimal performance. 
 Plus, the supply of weapons and ammo is VERY plentiful. Each location and enemy will always drop 
 apparal and or weapons/ammo. I was able to get the "Terrible Shotgun", "Kneecapper", "Xao Assault 
 Rifle" and "Darma's submachinegun" which were all powerful enough and all I needed to survive. 
 
  
  There are endless options available as you play. Deciding to be good or bad is the most used option. 
 Kill the town or save it is a decision you come up with all the time. Sometimes the reward for 
 being bad is greater than being good, however, the worse you are the more enemies with contracts 
 on your head will appear. Which was fine for me because it was more enemies to kill and more items 
 to collect. You can search the wasteland for hours and hours which can provide plenty of stories 
 and items. But after a while I was contempt with what items I had and finished the game.
  
  Fighting enemies was easier than I though as you have the V. A. T. S. system which allows you to aim 
 and certain parts of the enemy for mawimum efficiency. Plus it provides a slow motion effect, showing 
 each bullets hit or miss. Plus it focuses on the destruction of the enemy when they explode or 
 lose limbs. the V. A. T. S. uses up AP but you cans till fire your weapon without it and not lose 
 AP. This makes it easy to fire a few rounds to weaken the enemy then finish them off with the V. A. T. S.
 
  
  Overall the game was really fun to play and the endless options make it worth exploring for many 
 hours. However the level cap lowers my score to an 8.5 but does not diminish the overall gameplay. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: medwayman
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 12, 2009 12:32 pm PT
Review:  AWESOME: Sandbox "go anywhere, do anything" environment characteristic of Bethesda roleplaying 
 games does not disappoint.
  
  AWESOME: Stunningly beautiful post-apocalyptic environment coupled with excellent artistic design. 
 "The future of the 1950's" captured splendidly.
  
  AWESOME: VATS targeting. You'll raise a shout of glorious victory the first time you hit an opponent 
 with a deadly critical. Though repetitive, this feature takes forever to lose its charm.
  
  AWESOME: Well thought out, entertaining missions.
  
  AWESOME: Respawning random encounters 
 can keep the game alive for a long time.
  
  AWESOME: Character creation system revolving around s. p. e. c. i. a. l stats and an irreverently humorous 
 "perk" system.
  
  AWESOME: Totally reworked scaling system means you can go anywhere at any level (almost) , but the 
 whole world doesn't level with you. Those of you who hated Oblivion for this reason may rest easy.
 
  
  AWESOME: Balance in choices. There are benefits of consequences at every turn. You can't do everything 
 in one game because a great number of things are mutually exclusive.
  
  BUT!!! With this many awesomes, how come I didn't rate 9 or higher? Well... because it does get 
 a bit repetitious. Though I say this after 100+ hours. I definitely got my value out of it, but 
 there's something I just can't put my finger on. Something that feels "the same" throughout the 
 whole game. Once I stopped playing, I stopped utterly and haven't been motivated to pick it up 
 since. Hell of a good ride though. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: didipot
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 12, 2009 10:54 am PT
Review:  
  Since I'm not a fan of RPG's I can't say I will be adicted to this game and end it. Maybe I won't 
 go much far, but I bought the game just to have an idea of the game I heard so much about.... And 
 my reaction is Wow, impressive game.
  
  You really fell connected to the characters and enroled in the story. The game surroundings are 
 really special and you can fell the emptiness os Wasteland, and all the destrution makes you really 
 want to explore the world. The sounds are great and make music takes an important role in the action.
 
  
  For me the combat modes are a bit clumsy, since you don't get the real idea of fighting or shooting... 
 You feel kind a bad fighter or shooter since you can't get it right and enemies run around fast 
 enough to make you seem drunk. It's fun tho lol.. But anyway, the game it's more story base and 
 exploring a new world.
  
  Great game, and It's a must buy for any RPG player
  
  I'll sell mine for now, since I'm more into FPS online action ;O) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamegike
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 11, 2009 5:49 pm PT
Review:  Fallout 3 is a supremely assume RPG that leaves you feeling satisfied playing the game for an hour. 
 Like that's possible. having just killed hordes or super-mutants with your trusty sledge hammer 
 or laser rifle is intense. At first, I was lost on how to play, having never played the first two. 
 However, once I gave it a shot I regret that I didn't buy it faster. I was immediately sucked into 
 the world of the capitol wasteland. From your first steps in the vault, to the beautifully horrific 
 sight of the wasteland itself, I felt as if I was standing in that seemingly nuked up world. 
 
  
  The game play itself is phenomenal. The controls are easy and simple to find out. The only exception, 
 is the weight you can carry at all times. Graphics are amazing. I remember being filled with excitement 
 after I blow off a raiders head and close rang and saw his head literally explode in a ball of 
 gory excitement. The wasteland itself is eerily gorgeous. Your first view of the wasteland is the 
 view of what's left of a town from a small cliff top. It was the perfect place to start a player 
 out.
  
  The music itself was beautiful, but there wasn't much variety to the music other then listening 
 to the radio repeat its self 50 times. The voice acting was good. I did love the speeches made 
 by President John Henry Eden or real life Malcolm McDowell. Great voice and greater speeches. 
 
  
  The story was good, but I felt that it could have been better. There were some interesting twists, 
 but the ending, in my opinion, was not what I was expecting. The game bring it back with the great 
 stories for side missions.
  
  No game is today 10/10 perfect but, fallout 3 is an amazing game that exceeded my expectations 
 that many games just don't do for the gamer. It is how ever a phenomenal game that will keep you 
 playing until you have explored every corner of the map. A work of masterpiece. I give this game 
 a 9.5/10 nice job Bethesda Softworks for the extreme game of greatness. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: packfan1303
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 11, 2009 9:58 am PT
Review:  Fallout 3 is a highly addictive RPG that leaves you feeling satisfied, having just killed hordes 
 or super-mutants with your trusty array of weaponry. At first, I was skeptical, having never played 
 the first two. However, I watched my friend play one day, and decided to give it a shot. I regret 
 that I didn't find this title sooner. I was immediately sucked into the world of the capitol wasteland. 
 From your first steps in the vault, to the beautifully horrific sight of the wasteland itself, 
 I felt as if I was standing in that seemingly forsaken world. 
  
  Gameplay: The gameplay itself is phenomenal. The controls are tight and easy to figure out. The 
 only exception, is the occasional glitch that I have encountered. Occasionally my guns would disappear, 
 but still work. I remember seeing only the scope of my sniper rifle while I had it drawn. It's 
 not a terrible glitch, but it can be annoying. Overall, I give gameplay an 8/10.
  
  Graphics: Graphics are amazing. I remember being filled with glee after I sniped a raider in the 
 head and saw his head literally explode in a ball of gory excellence. The wasteland itself is eerily 
 gorgeous. Your first view of the wasteland is the view of whats left of a town from a small clifftop. 
 It took my breath away at the detail of the destruction. Overall, I give graphics a 10/10
  
  Sound: I found it to be repetitive. The music itself was good , but there wasn't much variety 
 to the music itself. The voice acting was decent, but it could have been better. I did love how 
 Bethesda got some heavy weights like Liam Neeson, Malcolm McDowell, and Ron Perlman to lend their 
 talents to the game. Overall, I give sound a 7/10
  
  Story: The story was good, but I felt that it could have been better. There were some interesting 
 twists, but the ending, in my opinion, left me wanting more. Overall, I give story an 8/10.
  
  Conclusion: Obviously no game is perfect and I believe that. However, fallout 3 is an amazing 
 game that exceeded my expectations, and many others. It is a phenomenal game that will keep you 
 playing until you have explored every last inch of this expansive masterpiece. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: quanloco
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 9, 2009 8:19 pm PT
Review:  Fallout 3 is dam amazing. I can not put this game down, from the great graphics to the enveloping 
 story line to the addictive game play. If you love an engrossing story line and visceral and gory 
 battle this game is for you. be warned though if you want to just run and gun with no thought this 
 is not the game for you. It takes time to level and it is some what slower paced but it is fa nominal. 
 Must own title. The all round feel that this game gives you is great. You start to wonder what 
 if this world really happened could I handle it. It will start to really make you wonder. Also 
 so of the characters you meet in you travels through the waste land will make you laugh because 
 of how loopy or crazy they are. It is a game you shouldn't miss. Put in the time and all you will 
 get from it is an amazing gaming experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: astupidname
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 9, 2009 5:29 pm PT
Review:  Fallout 3 was one of the most hyped games of the year. As a long awaited sequel to the great Fallout, 
 Bethesda was heavily pressured to make a first rate game. I can gladly tell you that they sure 
 pulled it off. Fallout 3 starts right from when you are born inside a cold, metallic bunker, known 
 as a vault. The game lets you choose what your character will look like using an advanced customization 
 tool with the most absurd list of beards i have ever seen. After that, you skip a couple years 
 to your toddler years. Here you choose your 7 basic skills using a system known as Im S. P. E. C. I. A. L. 
 After another time skip, your father mysteriously leaves the vault, and you follow him into the 
 bombed out, irradiated ruins of Washington D. C. As you soon learn, the aptly named Capital Wasteland 
 is a cruel and unforgiving place, filled with raiders and mutants just eager to tear you to shreds. 
 However, there is a wide selection of peacemakers you can use to blow their f***ing heads off, 
 so you'll always be able to defend yourself. A new feature to Fallout 3 is the Vault Tec Assisted 
 Targeting System, or V. A. T. S. This feature allows you to stop time and individually target your 
 enemies limbs, showing the potential damage it will deal. The Capital Wasteland is a strangely 
 beautiful place, to see the ruins of civilization, and the new settlements that have appeared. 
 There is a wide selection of places to explore, (over 100) and all will provide a unique experience. 
 If you've played Oblivion, you know Bethesdas attention to quests. Fallout 3 doesn't have quite 
 as many quests as Oblivion did, but they are longer and more satisfying to complete, from stopping 
 super mutants from taking over a town, to destroying one, you'll always be occupied. Fallout 3 
 is definitely worth buying, with well over 100 hours of play time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Awesome_Ad
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 9, 2009 1:42 pm PT
Review:  Fallout 3, i was quite dissapointed by, this game i thought was going to be pretty darn good, some 
 users saying this game is going to be the bomb, when i bought the game, it looked pretty good, 
 started to play it, and dont get me wrong, Fallout 3 has some good graphics there, and brilliant 
 gameplay, as Fallout 3, is a role-playing game, so if you are that type of gamer, this the game 
 for you, i am sort of a role playing gamer, but this was something else. It dissapointed me, as 
 the role playing confused me, as when you get out of Vault 101, there you go, your off on your 
 adventure, and in a way it started to get a bit repeptitve, some might disagree. I love the Vats, 
 how you can aim, then it would tell you a percentage of if you would hit or not, but this got boring 
 as well. the Pip boy, (your wrist watch tech guide) was sort of unorganised, it was very wierd 
 how you buy and sell things and too many things are complicated with in it. This game is not a 
 game you can play for long, its just not a game i can see my self playing for even more then an 
 hour. Just not the game for me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Swift7625
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 9, 2009 10:36 am PT
Review:  I have played many role playing/first shooter games like Oblivion and it ranks right up there with 
 it! I have played it back to back trying different type chars and it is has different outcomes 
 with each game! I enjoy the playing a bad guy/good guy in different games and see the how the chars 
 react to what you are and the followers that you recruit with you. The game game also reacts different 
 when you find locations and how you treat each one. I usually rent priot to buying but with this 
 I just went out and bought since allot more folks felt the same. My favorite part of the game is 
 finding a location that seems small tha turns out to be a huge cave with allot of treasure and 
 highly guarded with some radioactive huge type of mutated animal or human then trying out how how 
 to kill it before yoe are dead. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MattyWoah
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 9, 2009 10:24 am PT
Review:  It took almost 15 years for a game to come along to unseat what I considered to be the greatest 
 game ever made. Chrono Trigger, since its release, has been the greatest video game ever made, 
 not in my opinion, but in stated fact. Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion overthrew it. The economy, the 
 combat system, the integration of stealth, and the excellent means of communicating with NPC's 
 make Oblivion the greatest game of all time.
  
  Having played the first two Fallout games, I felt it would be a crime to skip over the first one 
 that managed to make a splash on the gaming scene. Fallout 3 is true to its roots in virtually 
 every way, in that the setting is the same, characters are reminiscent of the past games, and the 
 overall quest is very much akin to Fallout 1 & 2, but instead of being a point and click adventure 
 (think Diablo) , this game is a first person shooter/adventure very similar to Oblivion.
  
  This game has all the things that made Oblivion great, except for the beautiful atmosphere. Basically, 
 the biggest difference between these two games is the setting, and I don't think there are many 
 people who can disagree here: Oblivion takes place in a beautiful place with sprawling forests 
 and lakes, expansive castles, wildlife, and basically everything that makes a hike through one 
 of Americas national parks a beautiful experience. Fallout 3 takes place in a landfill. In this, 
 I think that Fallout 3 is a step down graphically. Good graphics should involve more then resolution, 
 polygons and pixels.... a game should be pretty to look at. Fallout 3 is an eyesore.
  
  Another complaint about Fallout 3 is that it is brutally hard from the start. Take Oblivion, turn 
 the difficulty all the way up, and you have an experience akin to Fallout 3. 
  
  I feel that I've made a mistake spending so much time complaining, as this is a truly great game. 
 Don't look at it as "ugly, and hard", so much as "An unattractive and difficult variation on the 
 greatest game ever made". Buy Oblivion, and if you have it already, Fallout 3 should be on top 
 of your 'To Buy" list. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: captainfez3
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 8, 2009 3:14 pm PT
Review:  If you've never played a RPG before, then I can definitely recommend Fallout 3 to you. Despite 
 the fact that this game is definitely an RPG, it just doesn't feel like one. Sure you have all 
 the stuff that makes it an RPG, but all of those elements feel very naturally sewn into this rough 
 and gritty world. For instance, you have skills for all the different weapons in the game, and 
 when you raise a skill, you do more damage with the weapon. This is definitely an element of an 
 RPG, but it feels really natural, almost as if you are learning how to use the weapon as you make 
 your way in the world, just like you would in real life.
  
  Fallout 3 has the same structure as Bethesda's other huge hit for the 360, Oblivion, but it features 
 a lot of improvements. Most notably are the graphics, which look even better than Oblivion's, and 
 the game runs much smoother in the open world segments than that game aswell. I also greatly appreciate 
 the new camera control, as it makes it much more natural and easy to go from 1st to 3rd perspective. 
 The Fallout 3 world is also just as large and expansive as Oblivion's realm, and it contains a 
 ton of bad guys and sweet loot, ripe for the taking. I also thoroughly enjoyed the story, but that 
 is basically a given when you are playing a Bethesda game.
  
  I do have a small list of negatives although. My biggest gripe would be with the free aim system. 
 When you aren't using V. A. T. S. (feel free to look it up if you want more details, but it is basically 
 the main tool you will use to decimate your enemies) the targeting is kind of iffy. Even in first 
 person, it is very easy to miss a target in free aim because of the way the weapon fires and the 
 fact that there is no sticky targeting. I'm not saying it is impossible, but it takes some getting 
 used to and it is definitely not as good as other first person shooters, which I suppose this game 
 is not, but it is still disappointing.
  
  My other biggest gripe is the level cap of 20 and the definite end of the game. Unlike Oblivion, 
 you cannot play "forever". After the main story line, that's it, game over. The level cap is just 
 annoying, since Oblivion never had one either. I believe there were more skill categories in Oblivion 
 however, so that may explain why there is a cap, but regardless, there is expansion content slated 
 for March that will raise the cap to 30 and allow you to continue to play.
  
  So, long story short, buy this game, because it rocks very hardcore. Thank you Bethesda! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blue4avenger
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 8, 2009 9:43 am PT
Review:  The first hour of Fallout 3 is already enough to realise that you're playing a deep and richly 
 filled game. The voice-acting is great and from the first seconds on the world is set up up to 
 the smallest details just as it should: with a deep background story and lots of characters, each 
 with their own personality and motivation. Not only do the surroundings enchant you with their 
 vividness and reality, it gets truly impressive thanks to the freedom and choices you can make. 
 Each decision you take has little or a lot of effect on your character, the world around him or 
 whether your grandma gets angry on you or not. You can let's say wipe out an entire city and all 
 NPCs, quest and objects included, or decide to let it remain and bear its fruits.
  
  I won't go into too much detail of the story as its exploration makes everything so addictive. 
 Your first moments of gameplay take place in an underground bunker where everyone has been staying 
 for years, hiding from the outside world that has become nearly inhabitable after a nuclear explosion. 
 After some surprising events your father does the unthinkable and goes outside the safe walls of 
 The Vault. The only possibility you have is to follow him and set your first steps in the desolate 
 environment that used to be Washington, filled with strange creatures, settlements and new social 
 structures.
  
  Graphically Fallout 3 is great. Surroundings are set up huge and impressive not only qua measurements 
 but also qua atmosphere, and doesn't lack details like filled tables in a pub or sharp textures 
 in indoor locations. The combinations of futuristic apocalypse with materials that remind of the 
 fifties is still enchanting and charming. The art direction is completely as it should be. Only 
 the characters could use a bit more soul at times but the voice acting manages to usually help 
 with that. A similar quality can be found with the sound. The radiostations you, with or without 
 disturbance, can listen to during your dangerous trips are fantastic and sounds like the wind or 
 the moaning of hidden enemies completely immerse you.
  
  It's thanks to these technical things that the first thing you notice when the blinding beams of 
 light, the heat and dust have settled, is how beautifully the city Washington and the surround 
 environment have been transferred into post-apocalyptic that can only Fallout can achieve. The 
 main story is ready for you but there's so much to explore and discover that you'll quickly get 
 dragged along in one of the many side stories that aren't just a handful of quests but interesting 
 adventures by themselves, with underlying stories and events. And although this is mostly a world 
 for loners there's quite a lot of spectacle to catch at times. On the sexy fights you'll read more 
 below, but now and then a surprisingly big boss is waiting for you or you get to participate on 
 an attack that reminds of World War 2. A rich a fulfilling world is what we call that!
  
  On top of that the replayability is high, on one side due to the fact that you can personalize 
 your character incredibly deep but especially because you can approach or solve the quests in different 
 ways depending of your skills, perks, karma status and who you're talking to. And replaying is 
 also fun to discover the different endings. Choices made during the game will have influence on 
 how the story progresses. Just to say, a World of Fallout would no doubt deliver a beauty of a 
 world and lovers of real role-playing can rest at ease.
  
  RPG specialist can of course again get off with the SPECIAL system, combined with the perks and 
 skills. The perks mostly offer nice extras like the possibility to be popular with women, or being 
 able to eat enemies after having killed them. New is the VATS system that reminds of older turn-based 
 games like UFO or Jagged Alliance. The time gets frozen for a while and you can choose which body 
 part of your opponent you want to attack. Unfreeze the game and you get to see the bloody outcome 
 in all its glory on your screen. For some reason these constantly changing slow-motion images of 
 flying limbs (after which they're no longer useable by that enemy) or exploding heads aren't just 
 a pleasure to the eye but also keep the combat interesting throughout the game. Great! Especially 
 if you know that the use of other weapons delivers other effects, not only visually but also qua 
 damage.
  
  Of course you can also shoot and fight in real-time, but on the Xbox360 this did disappoint a bit. 
 This is no licked FPS like Halo 3 of CoD4; movement is slow and shaky and a lot of bullets go lost 
 while you're looking for a headshot. Luckily the VATS-system is so well worked out that you can 
 keep using it combined with the faster real-time possibility for easier opponents. That this isn't 
 a shooter but a complex RPG also is shown in the fact that you have to repair your weapons and 
 items if you use them too often, and that this does cost quite some money. This same detail is 
 also extended to health packs, radiation disease or for instance alcohol. You can drink some booze 
 for a temporary stimulant but if you do this too often you'll be more wobbling home than jogging.
 
  
  Contrary to Oblivion opponents won't scale to your development. The further you go in the area 
 the tougher and more difficult hostiles become and the easier the ones you encountered in the beginning. 
 That way you get the feeling that you become more powerful and better and it's also more exciting 
 to now and then go further than you should. In exchange you'll die more than you like but this 
 was never a softcore game to start with.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: cheesytaco69
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 7, 2009 5:25 pm PT
Review:  I started Fallout 3 with mixed reactions but once you get released into the real world it picks 
 up, quick. The story is seemed weak to me but it kept you guessing where you had to go and what 
 you had to do. I had high expectations for this game being that it was from Bethesda, the creators 
 of Elder Scrolls. I must say, the playabilty is great but the play time is much less than Oblivion. 
 Fallout 3 plays the same as Oblivion so if you're coming from swords and bows you'll feel right 
 at home with the way Fallout plays. I wish that they wouldn't have put an easy to get to level 
 cap on Fallout because I got to it before I even beat the game. Another thing is I didn't like 
 was that they had all the creatures you would encounter throughout the game there when you got 
 it. Oblivion had progressively harder creatures as you went on and I would have liked to see them 
 try that with Fallout. There is an expansion out now with more in the future and a level cap of 
 30 instead of 20 which is good. The world is huge but getting around is a pain. The gameplay gets 
 repetitive after a while so the replay value on the game is low. It's a great game but I would 
 have liked to see more from the masterminds behind The Elder Scrolls. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RandomWarrior69
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 7, 2009 11:34 am PT
Review:  Fallout 3 is an RPG that takes place in a post-apocalopytic world where everything has gone bad. 
 People and animals have mutated, food isn't healthy, mines are scattered, gangs of people await 
 to kill you, and the whole world is irridiated. The game takes off in Vault 101. The home to your 
 father and you. The Vault is perfectly safe and has fresh food, water, and air! No one can get in 
 without opening the vault. One day, your father decides to leave the Vault without telling you. 
 Mutated cockroaches called radroaches are allowed in and begin to attack people. The Overseer, 
 the big cheese of the vault, is angered and tells his men to find and kill you. It's up to you 
 to defend yourself and escape the Vault with the help of your friend. You are now in the Wasteland, the 
 most dangerous place on Earth. Your journey is to find your father and find out why he left the 
 Vault and for what. Enough about the story though, lets talk about the gameplay. You get to customize 
 your character, decide how he/she looks and what he/she gets to wear. There are a variety of weapons 
 ranging from rifles to miniguns to rocket launchers. There are also tons of legendary weapons such 
 as the Lincoln Repeater, The Terrible Shotgun, and The Shiskabob, plus many more which are very 
 useful. In the game you get to us V. A. T. S which stand for Vault - Tech Assisted Targeting System, 
 which is basically what its called. It targets an enemey, and you get to choose where you want 
 to shoot the enemy. V. A. T. S is very useful but it runs out and you must wait for it to recharge. 
 In the game there are plenty of enemys such as Raiders whom are gang members, Radroaches, Deathclaws, 
 Mirelurks, Super Mutants, Bounty Hunters, Molerats, well, you get the idea. All of these enemys 
 are dangerous and you will meet them plenty of times. You can have someone in the game to help 
 you, depending on your karma. Karma is increased when you do good things, such as give people clean 
 water, and it is decreased when you steal or kill people. There plenty of perks in the game, which 
 you can choose everytime you level up. Perks help your character in the game, such as increasing 
 his/her health by 20%, or slightly increasing V. A. T. S, etc. The game ends how you play the game, 
 as either a good, neutral, or a bad person. There are plenty of missions which are all fun and unique 
 in their own way. Fallout 3 is an exhilerating game and will keep you playing for hours and hours 
 of fun. If you havn't played the past Fallout games for the PC, it is ok, because Fallout 3 has 
 its own unique story which everyone should experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Saint_Ducky
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 6, 2009 10:59 am PT
Review:  If you haven't played fallout 3 yet because you aren't sure about it, or think it's not worth your 
 time, trust me, it's totally worth full retail price. I haven't put too much time into it yet, 
 but it's already captured my heart. It's Oblivion on steroids with guns. The gameplay is deep and 
 immersive, and using V. A. T. S is always a pleasure. I love roaming around post-apocalyptic Washington 
 D. C. trying to avoid being mutated from exposure to radiation, and trying to fend off dozens of 
 blood thirsty mutated creatures and bandits with a makeshift rocket launcher or a rifle made from 
 scrap metal. That sounds pretty weird, but once you have a chance to experience it you won't want 
 to play anything else! 
  
  The story starts off somewhat half baked and gets better as it progresses, but what is really amazing 
 about Fallout 3 is its presentation. Everything in it seems to have had a lot of thought put into 
 it, from the animations, to the gameplay, to the environments. As soon as you get the opportunity 
 to play this excellent game, jump on it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Booze_messiah
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 6, 2009 8:09 am PT
Review:  This game is very addicting to say the least. I love the freedom of not "having" to due the main 
 quest until you want to. Be prepared to spend many hours just exploring. The weapon arsenal is 
 awesome, characters are pretty unique graphics are great and the attention to even small details 
 is very well done. I haven't played a game with so much to do in it since......... don't know if 
 I ever have. Kudos to Bethesda.
  
  People who haven't played the others in the series need not worry. It isn't necessary to understand 
 the game, although if you have played the others there are small things you might pick up on.
 
  
  I would definitely recommend this game to any RPG fan and even fans of other genres. The only reasons 
 I can think of to not give it a perfect 10? I think a bigger list of enemies would have been nice 
 for such a huge world and the game froze up on me quite a few times, not sure if others have the 
 same problem. This game offers a whole lot and worth every penny, bottom line is this game belongs 
 in every gamers collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrGaines
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 6, 2009 12:41 am PT
Review:  Fallout 3
  Final Score (8.4)
  
  Note: The good really outweigh the bad and I would describe the game as a "must try".
  
  THE 
 GOOD.
  Huge world.
  Lots of side things to do.
  Nice graphics for such a large area.
  Cool monsters though there could be more kinds.
  Lots of dialogue and game options that affect 
 the story and things you get to do.
  
  THE BAD
  There are other Role-Playing games out there with more weapons and gear.
  Third person view might 
 as well not even be in the game.
  Some times the game just doesn't feel as exciting as it should be (sometimes I like a little rock 
 music or people yelling in chaos and characters limping when you hurt them)
  Let me ride that car, fly that helicopter, blow up that wall or shoot out that neon store sign 
 are the kinds of things that just aren't in this game.
  
  
  The Review 
  
  Don't get me wrong, fallout 3 is a good game that I think everyone should play but it is missing 
 some things. First off let me say that the world is huge and there is a lot to do in it. There 
 are lots of little nooks and hidden depth in the so-called "Capitol Wasteland". For the size of 
 the game, the amount of little things in it and the interesting people you meet, I'd think there 
 would be more weapons/gear. 
  
  What you will hear from most people is that this game has an amazing amount of things to do in 
 it and you will have a very long good time to suckle all the value out of it. I swear, no matter 
 what you hear, if you slam the difficulty down to very easy and stay on the main storyline you 
 will finish it quickly. So what this means is if you are one of those beat the game type people 
 and that's all that matters then you wont get everything out of fallout 3 you could get.
  
  P. S. What's with Gamespot and all the 9.0/8.5 reviews, I mean is there no number between 9.0 and 
 8.5? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: babyYoshi29
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 5, 2009 6:36 pm PT
Review:  First off, fallout 3 was a great game. It did have its problems though. This was the first game 
 that I got for my 360 other than the Kung Fu Panda/Lego Indiana Jones that it came with. This review 
 may be the ramblings of a new xbox 360 gamer, but these are my opinions and please don't take any 
 of this personally. I have played Oblivion however and I must say they are EXTREMELY similar. The 
 two are made by Bethesda for those of you that don't know. This accounts for the similarities and 
 (in the case of this review) these did not affect the review.
  
  The Good:
  
  1) Great Story
  
  2) Extreme Gore
  
  3) Fun Guns
  
  The Bad:
  
  1) A Bit Glitchy
 
  
  2) Few Side Missions
  
  3) Not Enough Cities ( yes I realize it is a post-apocalyptic game but come on.)
  
  4) Slow 
 Travel
  
  Overall F3 was an awesome game but there were quite a few things that could have been improved. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XDGRifle
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 5, 2009 5:52 pm PT
Review:  Fallout 3 is the best game I have ever played in my life. It is such a addicting game just like 
 Oblivion but slightly harder than Oblivion. The game is so addicting. The Story is great A Vault 
 101 resident durring the Great Atomic war. But then your dad leaves the Vault that cant be opened. 
 So you go after him and try to find him. I love in this game the Karma system incorperated. If 
 you do good deeds you get good Karma bad deeds like kill citizens and good characters you get bad 
 karma. There are so many good perks to in the game. I love the freeplay in this game, The ability 
 to go wherever and whenever. The decsisions in the game can affect many different quests. For instance 
 if you choose to blow up Meagaton in "The Power Of Atom" you cant do some side quests. Unlike in 
 Oblivion you can actually kill Main characters which affects decsisions. But if you want a amazing 
 and addicting game get Fallout 3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bazza28
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 4, 2009 12:06 pm PT
Review:  + Washington DC is big and impressive
  +VATS system works great
  +Choices between good and bad are well implemented in the game
  + Variety of weapons
  
  -Easy 
 to get lost
  -Pale graphics (even if it's part of the environment)
  -Static characters
  -Mass Effect combined a great RPG with great shoot-outs, this game lacks the latter.
  
  
 
  
  I was very curious about this game. All for being the GOTY, winning several awards etc, I wanted 
 to experience it myself. I watched the review and I was impressed.
  
  Then I started playing. First of all, I think this game is good enough to earn the right to be 
 a GOTY. Technically it is really good! All the different things you can find, like weapons, health 
 items, drugs, books to gain experience and all the different NPC's you meet. 
  
  It's just that I could not get connected with the game. I don't know exactly why, maybe it's about 
 I'm not familiar with the series, or the characters and NPC's didn't interest me at all. They look 
 very static and show little to no emotion. There are moments in the game that could be dramatic, 
 but still, It felt nowhere as thrilling as THE cut-scene in Gears of War 2 (everybody will know 
 what I mean) .
  
  Also, the game is very sensitive about doing something what you didn't want to do, and mess up 
 your whole plan. For example, If you want the highest karma, be very careful not to accidentally 
 pick up any objects in a store. I wanted to use the workbench in Megaton, but I accidentally picked 
 up an object what was laying there. The game makes me steal the item, I gain bad karma, and the 
 shop-guard becomes an enemy.. Also, when you enter a town, be sure no enemies are following you, 
 because they could kill all the citizens, and maybe you will miss a quest or some good hints. These 
 things, and some other things (like the endless walking and getting lost quite easily) really irritated 
 me.
  
  Attacking enemies using the VATS system works very good! I like the slowdown when a bullet hits 
 some thugs' skull.
  
  Washington is big and impressive, but also a bit pale. The background music is excellent though!
 
  
  I am one of the few people who were not very impressed with the game. If you like the game, I wish 
 you a very nice time with it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tomo90
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 3, 2009 12:05 pm PT
Review:  I did not buy this game under any other assumption that it would not be a masterpiece, and having 
 played into the early hours for weeks, I'm not big headed to say I was right. Having played Oblivion 
 till my hands were sore, there wasn't too many surprises to fallout, but for me who has never played 
 any previous games in this franchise it's a breath of fresh air. 
  Visually the game is so-so in my opinion, and considering the setting the visuals could have been 
 pushed to the max. Despite acknowledging the darkness and greyness that a post apocalyptic DC would 
 have I feel it's gone a bit over the top. Visuals don't just feel dark but just plain washed out 
 and almost as if you're not playing a game in HD. Furthermore, I anticipated foolishly that you 
 would really be able to free-roam around DC, but central DC has many areas inaccessible. These 
 areas have borders where the buildings are highly pixelated and 2D, this really does destroy the 
 atmosphere.
  However the visuals are over ruled by the immersive main story, which in my opinion knocks the 
 Oblivion main quest out the ball park. You feel much more attached to your characters journey and 
 to the characters around you. I was much more concerned about doing the right thing than any other 
 RPG I have played prior and securing my characters future. Also the storylines in the side-quests 
 are just as amazing, as I anticipated them to be fairly simple, but such great storylines such 
 as Blood Ties really does improve the general scope of the Capital Wasteland. 
  Game play wise it's no big jump from oblivion apart from the use of futuristic weapons such as 
 laser rifles and the fat man (mini nuke launcher which is awesome!) . The way it is played if very 
 similar, you fast travel, you talk to citizens, you fast travel back, fight a bit, and the story 
 continues. This can get somewhat boring but fortunately most of the side quests are short and so 
 is the main quest. The VATS system is what really sets this game aside when it comes to game play 
 mechanics. This allows you to target certain portions of an enemy such as a super mutant by using 
 action points. An example being, crippling a raider's legs to prevent him escaping, or shooting 
 a super mutants arm to prevent him firing his missile launcher. This is fun and gory! It brings 
 in a whole new element to a game that really has some standard RPG elements, including the level 
 system which is annoyingly capped at level 20, but this is expanded in the DLC. One annoying part 
 of the game play which I found very frustrating was getting to locations within central DC, by 
 use of the metro lines. It was very confusing and time consuming and with the metro lines swarming 
 with feral ghouls you really start to lose your mind.
  So in conclusion, Fallout 3 adds some new exciting elements to the RPG genre pushing the level 
 of future RPG's just that little bit further, but it isn't a massive leap from Bethesda's last 
 success, 'Elder Scrolls IV Oblivion'. However in my opinion a must buy regardless of it's few faults. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrGreenMachine
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 3, 2009 8:53 am PT
Review:  This game destroyed my mind. for a couple weeks all i could think about was where i was going to 
 go next, would i find my dad, what weapons would i use. I spent hours upon hours thinking about 
 which perk would make everything easier. then came along the mysterious stranger. as i said, this 
 game is amazing. The DLC (Operation: anchorage) made the game even better with added weapons, armor 
 and one hell of a time with the outcast. 
  
  The game gets better as you go along. just as you think the game is about to go down crappy ending 
 alley, a giant robot squashes your fears and reimburses the most amazing game ever with "COMMUNISM 
 IS A LIE". The ending of this game makes up for the fact that an open world adventure has an abrupt 
 ending. but they had to come up with one way to make fans download the DLC that expands the ending. 
 
  
  Well this game has made me a bethesda fan for life, and i probably will never recover the 150hours 
 of life that i spent playing this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Auroni
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 3, 2009 7:46 am PT
Review:  Fallout 3 has gotten mixed reactions from me in the 25 hours or so that I've played thus far. There 
 are times where I'm really liking the game and everything just flows so well while there are times 
 I just hate the game with a passion because of the difficulty or the amount of glitches or load 
 times. Anyways, let's break the game down.
  
  Going into Fallout 3, I felt that the story had an amazing premise. It was a post apocalyptic world 
 and you were born in some kind of Vault and it was just all intriguing. I was never a Fallout fan 
 before so I knew nothing about the world or the series but since you didn't need to play the other 
 ones I definitely had to try this game. Anyways, the story starts off solid and it picks up pretty 
 fast. Unfortunately, I think the climax of the story is you leaving the vault which happens within 
 the first hour of the game. After that your just searching for your father and when you eventually 
 find him your about half way done the game. The story's conclusion happens way too fast and its 
 just a short game. Overall, Fallout 3 had a great premise for a story but the story just did not 
 live up to the premise but fortunately there are so many more things to do in the world of Fallout 
 3.
  
  There a ton of side quests in the game. Right now I have done all of them except 3 so I've basically 
 beaten the majority of them. There are some pretty interesting side quests and some of them can 
 be pretty lengthy which is a good thing because the story is so short. From atomic bombs to vampires 
 to nuca cola to zombies, these side quests can be hilariously entertaining and some have pretty 
 awesome endings. You decide whether or not you want to blow up an entire city while watching from 
 a tower miles away.
  
  The graphics in the game are done really well. It is definitely one of the better looking games 
 thus far on the 360. Even though the graphics are well done, it is the technical aspects that make 
 the game less fun. There are some long and boring load times which really take away from it since 
 your always going from city to city or room to room and you always get about a 20 second or so 
 load time. Theres also some terrible glitches in some quests that make you want to ripoff your 
 hair (especially if your an achievement whore like myself) . These aren't huge problems but they 
 can really detract from the game.
  
  The gameplay is where I was really disappointed when I began the game. It was confusing and just 
 felt way too hard for me. Thank God though that Bethesda is always smart enough to include a slider. 
 On very easy, this game was a blast. It was fun and I wasn't dying every 5 minutes. As a terrible 
 Western RPGer, this game was very tough for me on the normal setting but on the easier settings 
 it allowed me just to have fun.
  
  The gameplay also began to get extremely fun when I was very easy. I started understand which stats 
 were important and where I should put my points for the next level in. Things just started to flow. 
 Also, it just never gets old blowing off a Raiders head.
  
  The Fallout world is massive. Probably too massive for my likings but it adds a ton of gameplay 
 for the hardcore fans which is a fantastic thing. There are loads of things to collect, loads of 
 quests to complete, and loads of places to explore and that is what makes Fallout 3 such an awesome 
 game. 25 hours in and I still have a bunch of things to do so I can get all the achievement points. 
 If your a fan of WRPG's or want to be immersed, then this game is for you.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamer_snake
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 7, 2009 3:39 am PT
Review:  Have you ever wondered what would happen if they made Mad Max beyond Thunderdome into a video game? 
 Well this is the closest I have seen. You are in the destroyed, and partially radioactive, remains 
 of Washington D. C, and you are searching for your missing father. Now you could go out and look 
 for him, or you could go out and explore and do the side missions, and trust me there are a good 
 amount. From the creators of the awesome "Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion" this game is just as good, 
 if not slightly better. In the class of sandbox RPG's this one is top of the list. The Graphics 
 are incredibly realistic, and the voice acting is some of the best I have ever seen (best being 
 "Mass Effect") . This is one of the best games I have played on X-Box 360, and it's games like this 
 which is why I got the system. I have recently purchased the "Anchorage" download, and it too is 
 very good, but nothing beats "Tranquility" but I don't want to give it away, so you'll just have 
 to play to find it. I hope after you read this you will be tempted to go out and try this game, 
 it is well worth the hundreds of hours you will spend playing it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Joeysav1
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 2, 2009 6:39 pm PT
Review:  Bethseda did an excellent job with the open world and freedom to explore. The reason it did not 
 get a 10 is that there are some minor glitches. The glitches are midly annoying but do not detract 
 from the experience of the game. I enjoy the combination of the Linear main quest, yet the ability 
 to digress and explore as you see fit. 
  
  FPS fans, the combat system is fun and solid but please know this is NOT a pure FPS. I am curious 
 to see how they follow this up. I in particular hope that they raise or eliminate the level cap. 
 I have over 200 hours played on two different profiles. I reached the level 20 Cap in less than 
 25 hrs both times. I apologize if it seems I am making the level cap detract from the game. It 
 does not. The game can be difficult in the early stages but as you level up combat becomes much 
 more manageable. I reccoment this game to anyone who is RPG fan!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrEnormous52
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 2, 2009 6:01 pm PT
Review:  Bethesda's newest game delivers just like Oblivion did, but unfortunately not as well. It offers 
 the same open-world gameplay that has been a defining characteristic of the company's popular Elder 
 Scrolls series.
  
  The game kicks off with your character's birth, where you choose your gender, name, and appearance. 
 You continue on through a well-done introduction that barely even feels like an introduction, and 
 ultimately finishes with you escaping Vault 101 to look for your dad in the wastes of post-apocalyptic 
 Washington D. C., which is where the game really begins.
  
  The world is enormous, with plenty of places to explore. There is a plethora of items and weapons, 
 with schematics scattered throughout the world to construct new weapons. There is a lot of outfits 
 in the world, but most of them aren't practical and become redundant. 
  
  The game's graphics are good, but nothing special amongst today's games. The gameplay is solid, 
 but can eventually become repetitive. The story isn't bad, but isn't great. The missions tend to 
 be the same kinds, which are go here, get this, and come back. Despite these setbacks, Fallout 
 3 is a great game and is definitely worth the $60. If you're looking for a game to keep with for 
 a while, this game should be at the top of your list. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cerealkiller8
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 2, 2009 5:28 pm PT
Review:  Bethesda has been famous for the large and seemingly endless environments they have created, and 
 they have again succeeded. Fallout 3 takes place in the post-apocalyptic wastelands of Washington, 
 D. C. As you look over the horizon, or take your first steps out of the "vault", you will be greeted 
 by the endless, barren wastes. Though this land lacks much color or life, there is so much detail 
 applied that it is nearly impossible to identify two identical areas in the entire wasteland. 
 
  
  The game takes place in a scenario in the far future, and shows you what life could have been if 
 the bombs did really fall in the cold war. People have created these nuclear shelters called "vaults". 
 The interesting thing about these vaults are that they have the necessities of every-day life, 
 so "vault dwellers" have been accustomed to living in them for a while. Before and after the bombs 
 fell, people took refuge in these vaults for many years to wait for the radiation to reside. You 
 play as a lowly vault dweller who's father has escaped, and your goal is to escape as well to find 
 out what his intentions are. Your journey will be difficult, and don't forget, many parts of the 
 wasteland are still very radioactive.
  
  The game plays in 3rd or 1st person, though it is mainly a 1st person game. Like any other RPG, 
 you will gain experience points, customize armor, embark on quests, and maintain a good health 
 level. The detail applied to this game is far from dull. Every living, breathing person in the 
 entire game has their own life schedule, while it is visiting the church for a morning prayer, 
 going to the cafeteria to eat, socialize, and more. It is up to you if you want to alter their 
 lives in any way. Aside from friendly NPCs, their are also a variety of monsters in the game, all 
 of which have been transformed from the years of nuclear deformation. 
  
  Many people compare this game to Elder Scrolls: Oblivion, the RPG Bethesda made a few years back. 
 The game plays very similarly, and Oblivion veterans will be immediately familiarized. The major 
 differences that Fallout has is the fact that is uses guns, not bows and arrows, and features an 
 innovative system called V. A. T. S. This is an in-game system that freezes the real time gameplay 
 in order to bring up a menu. You can now choose to target specific parts of the enemies bodies, 
 and it even displays the percentage of impact. Whats interesting is, when you shoot their head 
 enough, for example, they will become dizzy and have less-accurate shots. If you shoot their legs, 
 they will be crippled, and so on. The same applies to you, so you need to be careful as well
  
  In conclusion, this game is extremely well developed and has the potential for hours and hours 
 of fun if the player is willing to devote many hours to it. The game starts out slow, but accelerates 
 quite rapidly after some of the gear you receive improves. A major problem with Fallout is the 
 fact that though it seems like an FPS/RPG, it is much more RPG than shooter. You cant go around 
 blasting people with your shotgun, it just doesn't work that way. You need to traverse slowly, 
 taking your time to loot each monster and use VATS while managing your health, weight capacity, 
 weapon/armor durability, and more. Still, Fallout offers an exciting and immersive experience that 
 offers over 30+ hours of fun.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dekodeadman
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 2, 2009 11:37 am PT
Review:  Well, like I said, this game is the perfect RPG for me, it has everything I've ever dreamt; but... 
 It has too many glitches ang bugs :S, many missions are hard to complete because of them, the game 
 freezes frecuently and it has framerate falls, graphical errors, the shooting command sometimes 
 starts by itself, etc... But, all those mistakes are almost invisible if you see how good is this 
 game... Talking about the good things of this game: The V. A. T. S. System is excellent, it makes 
 the game a lot easier than it would be (because the game is very hard, and with the V. A. T. S. is 
 just hard xD) , algo it makes the accurancy excellent (it's perfect for headshots) , and the gore 
 it produces when you cripple an enemy body part is also awesome, and also the diea of crippling 
 enemies body parts is cool, make them hard to walk with the crippled legs, hard to use weapons 
 when you cripple the arms and the head, hard for them to see. The number of enemies is also awesome, 
 many classes of ants for example: giant ant, giant worker ant, giant soldier ant, giant fire ant, 
 giant fire worker ant, giant fire soldier ant, etc... the same with the gohuls, super mutants, 
 mutated insects, etc, and the yao guais and deathclaws are almost impossible to kill, this makes 
 the game a lot more challenging. The story is not so good, it's just the character seeking for 
 his father the half of the story (sorry but I haven't finished the storyline yet :P) . The storyline 
 is not precisely very long XD, it's about 10-12 hours, but if you make the side quests, try to 
 make the custom weapons, explore some metro stations and buildings, try to find the bobbleheads, 
 try to mantain your ammo cool, etc, the game may be completed at least in 50 hours, just making 
 some extra things, not precisely exploring all the metro stations, but some of them. Other thing 
 I love about this game, is the work bench to make custom weapons, it's awesome, the best ones are 
 the rockit launcher, because you can use any kind of junk of ammo, also the dark gun, that can 
 poison and one-shot kill the enemies, also it makes every enemy hard to walk crippling their legs, 
 they're incredible! Another thing I like is leveling, it's very good you can choose what skills 
 you want to level-up when you advance, they don't develop by their own like in other games, you 
 can choose to increase whatever you want, also with the perk system that is very cool. My favorite 
 skills are explosives, stealth and small weapons, because with these three skills you can be deathly 
 stealth (my female character, danielle has these skills and is an is an awesome-stealthy killer 
 woman XDD) . he graphics and sound are cool but with the framerate falls, makes it a little bad. 
 My conclussion:
  
  Graphics: 10
  Sound: 9
  Story: 9
  Gameplay: 10
  Gametime/Dif: 9
  Value: 10
  Overall Note: 9.5
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: GodDemon
Rating: 1
Date: Feb 9, 2009 9:08 am PT
Review:  This is an oblivion in a new theme. Do not think of it as a sequel to fallout.
  One would think that a game 10 years in the making and with the title of the long enduring fallout 
 series would have the feel of fallout. No, not so much. yes, it uses the name and theme, but not 
 the feel. I would rather play Two worlds which beats this in term of gameplay, grapics and voice 
 acting.
  
  Firstly this game has almost no bugs. However its graphics of the textures are done poorly and 
 combat is as bad as morrowind as well as the game having the worse voice acting ever!
  
  
  For those fallout veterans and RPG gamers this is a great disappointment. I wish i had saved 
 my money.
  The main thing that bothers me is that the world is small and the game seems to be restricted, 
 almost everything you do results in a similar end.
  I really really miss having to think about my actions rather than just brainlessly wander about 
 and kill stuff.
  Gets old.
  
  The only real choice of consequence is the megaton city choice. thats it.
  The creators went 
 to great lengths to make it so your choices DON'T limit or help you later on in the game. Why would 
 my decisions do that? in real life my actions only have immediate short term effects, right?
  
  
  You may have different ways of completing a quest or various things to say, it always comes 
 out almost the same. It lacks much of the decisionmaking from the first two. I lost interest after 
 i realized that nomater what i do i can still complete everything on the map.
  One would think if you go and start killig everyone you may limit yourself or make it impossible 
 to do other things. Not here. Any created character can complete every quest. To the same end, 
 some have two outcomes but they are fixed.
  Why even create my own character?
  It was like a one or two time watcher movie.
  
  If i am in a conversation and i flat out insult 
 someone one would think they wouldnt trust you or at the least wouldnt want to talk to you again.
 
  Not like that "Hey you! Ugly!"-"well thats not a very nice thing to call someone new. So what 
 would you like to talk about."
  The dialogue is dumbed down and you always have a good, bad and maybe a neutral option. occasionally 
 a skill based one too. but why would you as an angel have the option to insult the hell out of 
 someone? Or as an evil villian i would expect to have special extra evil stuff to say instead of 
 the standard ones, including the suck-up goody two shoes option.
  
  In summary, my biggest complaint is that since i can do everything with any given character, where 
 is the drive to try a different aproach or play the game differently?
  And i never think about the choices i make,, they dont have more than an immediate and local effect.
 
  Maybe they will put out a "make this game be fallout"-Patch.
  Oh.. and for the love of god,, has anyone heard of a soundtrack? 
  
  
  All in all:
  
  
 
  Gameplay 0/10
  
  Combat 0/10
  
  Interaction with NPCs 1/10
  
  Exploration 4/10
  
  The world 0/10
  
  story *choke choke*
  
  
  A BIG BIG disappointment! 
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jbags182
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 1, 2009 7:02 pm PT
Review:  My favorite game to date, Oblivion. I went in to Game Stop andasw Fallout 3. I debated whether 
 to get that or Left 4 Dead. They were both top notch price. But my instincts told me to geth the 
 game most like Oblivion Fallout 3.
  
  When i popped in the disc I was pretty amazed by the story and thought "Hey, this could be realistic 
 in a weird way."After i left the Vault 101 I was speechless, I opened the door and was like wow 
 this is amazing. The mountains looked like real mountains!
  
  I did a few missions but i was not completely convinced so I decided to go Rambo and kill just 
 about everybody in my sights. The body's look grotesquely unique and cool. Cool, thats all i can 
 think of is how cool this game plays.
  
  The guns were also cool. I liked using the shotguns because well they are shot guns. They blew 
 up body's and just rocked the game.
  
  Bottom Line
  
  I liked the game, I really like it, more than Oblivion my previous favorite game. It plays great 
 however the character movement isn't very smooth. It is worth the expensive money and i reccomend 
 it to anyone who likesaction games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pauliex77x
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 1, 2009 6:22 pm PT
Review:  The game is set in a dark reality where the only Laws are the laws of survival. In this Nuclear 
 world where almost everything human is gone, if your not quick on the trigger you'll be meat for 
 the beasts. around every crater and destroyed building there could be a monster waiting to crush 
 you. using a variety of weapons from brass knuckles to mini nukes, protecting yourself from raiders 
 slavers and Super mutants is a great challenge. it is possible to finish the game without killing 
 anything but how fun could that be. destroying towns and settlements with a rocket launcher or 
 nuke is one of the most satisfying game experiences ive had to date. the main quest is obviously 
 the objective, but those who just like to blow things up and kill will absolutely go crazy for 
 this one. even if your not into questing and just like to kill and destroy this is a game for you. 
 if you enjoyed the evil side of Oblivion, you MUST give this one a try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deathstars412
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 1, 2009 5:48 pm PT
Review:  This game is sooooo good im not even going to type anymore instead ill do this
  
  fretgtrg ret gtr erg t g rtg t gt rg rtdg rd g frg reg rt g rtg rd g erg g erg r gre g rf r fg 
 rgf re g erg r eg erg r g drg r g er gr g rtg refg er g er fr f ref re g er g refv ds v ds fv rf 
 r gf dfgfd f gfd fgf dfg f df g fd f g fd e rt g fd ert g fd erfgfd e rfgf de rf g fd f g f d fg 
 ht r efg t re dfa fallout 3 fvgt r v r c vg fd cvgf d xc vb gf d xc v fd xc v f d xc v f d xc v 
 f d c s fallout 3 frgt f frve r vf r v g d fv gf d fv gtr e df r ed fd rd f gt re df vgt t rfd 
 vb fallout 3 efrtge frwd frgt rfed f tgr ewd f gf fre d frg f red frg b fed fr gt h fre r tg gt 
 fallout 3 dfgt re rftghy trgf gthy tg rgt h tgr gt hyr teg r tg 5 4r tyh 5t4r tyh t5 fallout 3frg 
 t r fg t rf gt yt rfe rgt r fed frg t rfe 3 frtg rfed fr tg rfe dfr gt re frgt rr e frgt re frgt 
 yht gr4 ftghyj uy tr f gh yt r fg hgyt r edf g h ytr df ghtr gtr f g t gh ff gh t rf g t r f g 
 tr df g tr d fg t r d f g t rd f g tr d f g tr d fg hy tr f gh y tr d fg h yt r f gh yt r rg t 
 5 rf t45 4r ert5 rt yt r f gt r f g tr f gh yt rf g yt r df g yt rf g t r fg t r fg h tr erg hy 
 tr rf gh ytr fgh yt r f g tr r g hy tfr g h ytr gh yt r gh yt r fg t r rfg h yt r y tr fg hy tr 
 g hy tr f gh t 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jajdr
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 1, 2009 4:13 pm PT
Review:  This is my game of the year for 2008. Visually stunning graphics, intense game play, and rich, 
 craftable stories make this game one of the best that you will ever play. This game is way under 
 priced.
  
  Game Play
  The VATS aiming system is fun to use in the game and a new, innovative style that makes fights 
 easier and more entertaining. The game can be experienced in both 1st person and 3rd person and 
 both views work very well. The open environment is massive, but it isn't a drag because you can 
 fast travel to places that you have discovered to save you a load of time. The cities are full 
 of seemingly endless things to do with lots of reason to do them. Owning an upgradable house is 
 convenient and fun. There are no vehicles in the game, but you don't really need them considering 
 the many stops you would have to make.
  
  Story
  You have a complete supply of choice and customization in this game. There is a mainframe story, 
 but is totally editable and changes with every decision you make. You can be good, which gives 
 you good karma which affects the enemies that come after you and your chances in combat, you can 
 be neutral with neutral karma which basically means that you do things for yourself and no one 
 else, and you can be evil with bad karma which means that you try to do crimes against humanity 
 and care not for the cost. Every choice you make has its significant rewards and consequences.
 
  
  Graphics
  The graphics, on top of everything, are very realistic and pack enough realism to freak the hell 
 out of you or just be amazed at the view. The way your vision gets very blurry if your head is 
 crippled and the way your enemies' heads explode in slow motion make this game no exception for 
 perfect sights.
  
  CONS
  Sometimes the game freezes before you get the chance to save or right after you make an awesome 
 head shot into a super mutant brute, so that's a slight downer, and sometimes when you just want 
 to temporarily want take a break from being a good hearted saint by killing everyone you see, you 
 open a door and your data gets overwritten by the auto save to your dismay, but these things are 
 pretty rare and don't change how incredible the experience of playing this game is. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: anasazi23
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 1, 2009 8:57 am PT
Review:  I'm a huge fallout fan, and have been since the first iteration years ago. I've faithfullly visited 
 "No mutants allowed" on the web weekly for almost as long. Naturally, I've been waiting with bated 
 breath for this game for a long time. 
  
  It would have been easy to skimp on, to ride the name for some money and promise improvements on 
 Fallout 4. Thankfully, that didn't happen.
  
  The game nearly exemplifies the darkness portrayed in the original series, and masterfully combines 
 old-time 30's and 40's music with brilliant questing and gameplay.
  
  There is so much that can be said, and if you know fallout at all, you know that the fans were 
 chomping at the chain to break loose and criticize all aspects worth (or not) criticizing. However, 
 I'll take the game for what it is - Bethesda did a masturful job of re-introducing the perk system, 
 the moral quandries, re-creating the enemies, including deathclaws and radscorpions, and more.
 
  
  The game does a great job of creating a dismal sort of feel the first time you step out of the 
 vault and see the vast D. C. capital wasteland. They give you no concrete clues on where to go, 
 and you simply must survive and explore. You quickly discover a nearby town, and realize just as 
 quickly that survival will be an always brutal, sometimes selfish, and often hilarious endeavor.
 
  
  Is it Oblivion with guns? Saying yes would be a disservice to the game, and that implies that Oblivion 
 itself if somehow mediocre (it's not) , or a simple upgrade to what is likely the best 1st person 
 RPG ever created. That said, you'll recognize immediately the Oblivion influence, which to reiterate, 
 isn't an all-bad thing. Is it perfect? No. Is there the obligatory multiplayer? Thank God, the 
 answer is again no. Is is also probably the best game on the 360? I'd argue "yes."
  
  Kudos, Bethesda, on producing a compelling masterpiece. Can't wait for the downloadable content. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: saladdodger163
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 1, 2009 7:54 am PT
Review:  pros: vats is gory and awsome, great graphics, pretty good story, high replay value, it actually 
 lets you be neutral in morality, lots of cool weapons, huge world, awsome music, bloody mess perk
 
  cons: pistols sound like staple guns, too short
  
  first i must say wooo vault boy is one of my favorite characters alright to the review well its 
 better than oblivion and thats a real big compliment yets talk vats you probably know about it 
 but if you dont its a slow motion killcam where the camera focuses in on the gory action you use 
 action points to use vats and it does more damage and is more accurate the graphics are very detailed 
 and prove that desolate wastelands can still look beatiful armor shows damage and the works its 
 really nice the story goes like this your dad is a scientist that is trying to make the irradiated 
 water be pure he leaves the vault and suddenly thier all pissed at you so you leave to look for 
 your dad and one of the best parts of the game is when you leave the vault you see blinding lights 
 and its really cool i will leave the rest for you to see onto weapons you can create your own like 
 bottle cap mines, railway spike launchers and others you also have great weapons one of my favorites 
 is the fat man wich shoots miny nukes but after you run out of ammo you can shoot anythind like 
 paperweights cigarettes and even bobble heads but the bobble heads are colectibles and give you 
 stat boosts the sound is very good with great 30s songs and others the only problem with it is 
 the pistols they sound like staple guns also the main quest is like fifteen hours with all the 
 side quests its about thirty hours but none of this is filler it all is quality gameplay and its 
 good fun you could say its like oblivion with guns but for me i say bring on the apocolypse 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aag360360
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 31, 2009 6:54 pm PT
Review:  When I first learned that Bethesda would be the driving force behind the newest addition in the 
 Fallout franchise, I immediately assumed that the final product would be an "Oblivion with guns" 
 as many other gamers did.
  
  But I never expected it to be THIS similar to Oblivion.
  
  Seriously, with the exception of V. A. T. S, perks, a different level progression mechanic and some 
 other subtle alterations to the Oblivion formula, this game IS Oblivion...
  
  It's founded upon the very same ideas of limitless freedom that Oblivion is, it plays exactly like 
 Oblivion... I hate to say it but this game is simply too similar to Bethesda's previous entry for 
 me to wholeheartedly recommend...
  
  But nonetheless... Fallout 3 is amazing. It's simply epic; it's got an engrossing story, a badass 
 sense of action, and a constant and rapid pace of progression. It's a seriously fun world to lose 
 yourself in. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GameDetective
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 31, 2009 2:47 pm PT
Review:  Fallout 3 is one of the best games ever for 2008. If you are thinking about getting it, get it.
 
  
  It includes:
  
  1) Amazing graphics
  2) More than 40 hours of play
  3) Massive landscapes
  4) Interesting missions
  5) Lots of places, creatures, monsters and 
 people too see
  
  In this game there are loads of stuff to discover aswell as the amazing map that lets you travel 
 through D. C. Going to places like the white house and the Washington monument. You will see that 
 the main story is that a nuclear war broke out and you were sent to the vault.
  
  
  The game holds loads of exciting and different missions for you to follow. In the game you can 
 decide on the evil path or the good path.
  
  
  Evil Path:
  
  If you decide on the evil path you would be killing any innocent poeple and heroes through the 
 game. You shall be welcomed by the Slavers and all the other bad organisations in the game. It 
 does not matter if your on the evil path the downside is that poeple treat you like dirt and you 
 are constantly thinking about the Magnum in your hand when they are calling you names and shouting 
 at you. Advice make sure your in a quiet place before blowing someones head off or everyone will 
 get there guns out and start shooting you.
  
  
  Good Path:
  
  If you decide to be good everyone will like you exept the Raiders, Slaver and the Assassins that 
 will try to kill you. there is always a downside of the good path. Anyway the good thing is that 
 everyone gives you presents and gives you discounts on everything you buy. But it is much easier 
 on the evil path as you can kill them and get the items for free. In the end you feel better when 
 you have resisted the temptation to be a mass murderer.
  
  
  (SPOILER)
  
  You start your story as a baby, you then become 10 years old wich is an important age as you recive 
 a Pit Boy. This is very handy as you can travel, view maps, view your stored items such as weapons, 
 armor and lots of other stuff you can tune into the radio's and catch up with some news even some 
 missions ;) 
  
  You soon become 16 years old and ready to take the famous G. O. A. T. test.
  This is quite fun answring stupid questions and you get to finally beat up the bully Butch (MAKE 
 SURE YOU DO) .
  
  Finally you turn 19 and the place has gone to hell when your father brakes out of the vault and 
 escapes to the wasteland. You have to follow his footsteps by doing the same thing and tracking 
 him down.
  
  You can find out the rest when you get the game.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Thorakas
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 31, 2009 6:36 am PT
Review:  
  Fallout 3. The first time I saw a nuke explode my heart skipped and I winced as the glass behind 
 me shattered with the shock wave.
  It was then that I realized this game was going to be a lot of fun.
  There's a great feeling 
 of exploration and adventure at almost every junction.
  If you follow the main quest you'll be asked to walk to different unexplored areas and the map 
 system makes doing this an easy thing.
  
  Decent morality system without the visuals like Fable.
  The radio broadcasts will tell of your 
 deeds and it's really funny sometimes to hear them
  bashing you.
  Even main characters will converse with you differently.
  
  Weapon wise the gun models are 
 incredible! Melee I didn't like as much due to the whole swinging in front of my vision thing. 
 The Vats system allows much cooler kills for melee though.
  Speaking of Vats...
  
  VATS is a just a button away in combat and it pauses combat at any time to allow you to chose a 
 body part to next attack.
  How many attacks is dictated by by the amount of Action Points you have at the time.
  You can 
 gain more actions points as your progress by choosing to increase your main Agility stats and or 
 perks.
  
  Perks are skills you can chose when you level. Some have requirements and some don't.
  For instance: 
 In order to gain a sneak while running perk, you must have at least 50 points into sneak first.
 
  
  This game is a hit because it allows you to play any type of combat style you want.
  Even if you want to go ranged you have to choices between ballistic or energy.
  
  If I had 
 to wrap this game up in three words they would be:
  Choices, Choices, Choices.
  
  In a world of linear games this one stands out as a beacon of light!
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Emeraldmaster25
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 30, 2009 9:18 pm PT
Review:  So for the people still reading Fallout 3 is set in post-apocalyptic D. C. in 2277 if you don't 
 know. Your father has left the vault you have been in since you were born. So as you try to find 
 your father you must search the capitol wasteland you meet all kind of people trying to survive. 
 The currency is bottle caps which early in the game are important for survival. Also the game features 
 a karma system which influences the way people feel towards you. The system which has been mentioned 
 heavily is called VATS (Vault Tech Assisted Targeting System) which lets you stop the game and let 
 you target certain body parts and shoot them in slow motion. The games quest system is easy to 
 use, there are about 20 or so side quests and nine main quests. The Pip-Boy 3000 is practically 
 your life line it updates your quests, has your vitals, and shows your inventory. There is lots 
 of stuff and little things that I haven't told you so you'll have to find out for yourself. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Deadlocked4Life
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 30, 2009 12:48 pm PT
Review:  When it comes to buying games, I typically buy the game the DAY it releases if I'm convinced that 
 it'll be great (Halo 3, Gears of War, any and every Zelda title) but Fallout 3 was a bit different. 
 This time I waited for the reviews because I honestly wasn't sure what to expect. The result? I 
 missed out on 3 days that I could have been playing Fallout 3! I played Oblivion to death, and 
 Fallout 3 is similar in many, many ways, as any other reviewer will tell you. So rather than going 
 into great detail over everything, I'll simply list ways in which Fallout 3 is similar and ways 
 that it differentiates itself.
  
  Similarities:
  - open-ended world with an emphasis on exploration
  -tons of quests, people, and spoken dialogue
 
  -wide assortment of weapons, locations, and enemies
  -RPG structure with real time combat
  -menu screen, map, and inventory are basically indentical
  -extensive morality system
  
  
 Differences:
  -shorter campaign, fewer developed towns and cities in general
  -gun-based combat offers a different play style entirely
  -more limited level up system
  -shorter 
 campaign encourages multiple playthroughs (not as expansive)
  -futuristic, post-apocalptic setting
  
  Obviously there are a ton of other similarities and 
 differences, but those are the primary ones in my opinion. I really think it comes down to this: 
 Do you like Oblivion? Play Fallout 3 and adore it. Not into the expansive, free roaming RPG sort? 
 Don't play it. This is NOT an FPS, nor does it play particularly well as one (unlike more shooter-focused 
 Halos and Call of Duties, etc.) . As an action RPG, this game is a revolutionary step forward and 
 the post-apocalyptic atmosphere that Bethsda creates is simply second to none. The game has it's 
 fair share of gltiches (which can't be avoided in such a huge game, I suppose) and the shooting 
 combat isn't quite as fluid as current standards, but it's still "just plain fun" and that's what 
 it's all about. There's a reason this game has gotten so many Game of the year awards. It's ambitious 
 and it fulfills many of those high ambitions. Check it out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: snakes3425
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 29, 2009 5:24 pm PT
Review:  I don't know what to say, except that this is the Dark Knight of Video Games. I mean jesus. Fallout 
 3, the latest outing in the Fallout series of RPGs, comes about as close to perfect as a game can 
 be, despite a few minor flaws. 
  
  Fallout 3 is set in an alternate timeline, where the United States never emerged from the social, 
 political, and cultural paranoia of the 1950s. At the time of the game, the United States, having 
 been devistated by a nuclear war, has collapsed into a state of anarchy and civil war between the 
 remnants of the pre-war US government and military in the form of the Enclave and the Brotherhood 
 of Steel, as well as smaller factions such as Raiders and Outcasts from the Brotherhood of Steel. 
 
  
  The player takes controller of a nameless Vault Dweller, who escapes from the confines of Vault 
 101, located in the wartorn wastes that were once Washington DC, with the sole goal of locating 
 your missing father, and discovering why he left the vault to begin with. The game's best feature 
 though revolves around it's storyline, which is about as open as it can get, allowing the player 
 to chose between a good, neutral or evil storyline, and in certain missions, such as escaping from 
 Vault 101, you have no choice but to earn negative or good karma. 
  
  Once you emerge from the vault, the game's atmosphere immeditally pulls the player into the Fallout 
 Universe. When you first emerge from the vault, you encounter a desolate wasteland, with few reminders 
 of what had once been a thriving metropolis. With the exception of an Enclave Robot, the player 
 is essentually the only living thing in the area, creating a very eerie feel. As you venture deeper 
 into the wartorn remains of Washington DC, you begin to encounter more familiar sites such as the 
 remains of the Captial Building, the Washington Monument and the Mall, all of which are extremely 
 well detailed. 
  
  However, the game's atmosphere ultimatly is one of it's major flaws, it works too well, and as 
 a result there are very few enemies to fight while moving through the wasteland from one objective 
 to the next. However when you do encounter enemies, the balance between originallity and challenge 
 is well executed. The enemies range from simple easy to kill enemies like Mole-Rats and Giant Ants 
 to the more difficult Enclave Soldiers, Mercinaries, Raiders, and Super Mutants, all of which are 
 extremely detaled, and well designed. 
  
  However, don't expect the easier enemies to be pushovers, for example in the Quest, Those, you 
 are required to elimnate a nest of Giant Ants that have been terrorizing the settlement of Greyditch, 
 however these Giant Ants have been mutated and are capable of an offensive attack in the form of 
 breathing fire, which renders close range attacks with weapons like the Chinese Officer's Sword 
 and Combat Knife ineffective unless you want to take a lot of damage.
  
  The combat engine is similar in many aspects to the ones found in many first person shooters and 
 is easy to understand: Select Weapon, Point and Shoot. However the Combat Engines best feature 
 is by far the VATS Aiming System, which allows the player to target specific body parts of their 
 enemy, some of which result in slowing the enemy down or an instant kill if the player scores a 
 critical hit on a specific body part like the head. 
  
  There are really only two major drawbacks to the combat system. The first of these is that weapons 
 degrade over time, and often times break in the midst of a fire fight, and certain weapons, such 
 as the Chinese Officer's Sword and Laser Rifle, tend to be harder to find then weapons like a pistol 
 or assault rifle. 
  
  The second flaw is that it is often time extremely difficult to switch weapons while under pressure, 
 for example, if you encounter a group of raiders, and you decide to take them on with a Chinese 
 Officer's Sword in order to save your ammunition, you have to activate the Pip-Boy, and scroll 
 to through the various screens until you get to the Weapons Screen, and then you have to scroll 
 through your weapons until you can select the Officer's Sword. This flaw also applies to selecting 
 Aid Items, like Stintpaks, Nuka-Cola, and Meats taken from various animals. 
  
  The quests also are nice a varied, ranging from simple find Item X like the Decleration of Independece 
 to out right suicide missions, such as placing a camera in a lair of Merlocks, and being unable 
 to kill attacking Merlocks or eleimating Fire Ant Nest Guardians in the Those quest, while being 
 unable to attack the far more dangerous, and terrifying Queen Ant, without failing the quest. 
 
  
  In the end, Fallout 3 is more of a reboot then a sequal, and playing the previous Fallout Games 
 isn't required in order to draw the player into the Game World. Fallout 3 is deffinatlly a rare 
 breed among games, and despite a few flaws, presents itself nearly perfectally, and is a must play 
 for any gamer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jimmy8118
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 4, 2009 1:10 pm PT
Review:  Fallout 3 was developed by Bethesda, the same developer who made The Elder Scrolls: Oblivion. Many 
 people say they're the same thing except that Fallout 3 has guns. I've played both for hours everyday, 
 and let me tell you. They're completely different in almost every way.
  
  The Good - 
  - Freedom to do almost anything you want
  - Your character, your story
  - Choose a side: Good 
 or Evil
  
  The Bad -
  - I admit It has some similarities with Oblivion
  - Too many bugs and crashes
  - The freaking packaging of the game broke my disk! Now I have to 
 wait for 2 months to get another copy. And I just downloaded Operation: Anchorage the day it broke. 
 Mother******
  
  Fallout 3 takes place in Post-Apocalyptic Washington D. C. It's a Role-Playing-Game and First-Person-Shooter. 
 You are born in Vault 101 (or so you think) , Vault 101 (along with dozens of other Vaults) were 
 built to protect citizens from the nuclear bombs, the apocalypse, etc. Your father, James, is 101's 
 scientist, your mother died giving birth to you at the beginning of the game. Once you start out, 
 you create your own character and throughout the beginning quests, you are a child growing up in 
 Vault 101. You have your 10th birthday, take the G. O. A. T. test at age 16, etc. When you are 19 
 however, James has left the Vault. You escape the Vault looking for your father. And that was just 
 the first hour of the hundreds of hours you will spend playing this masterpiece.
  
  After leaving Vault 101, the game really gets amazing. It's now your game, limitless freedom. You 
 can go to Megaton and ask people where James is, or you can forget he exists and go destroy everything 
 you see. That's what makes Fallout 3 the game that everyone needs to play, it's not a sequence 
 of events made by the developer, it's a sequence of events made by you. Not only that but you can 
 be a good character or an evil character. Kill everyone in Vault 101, Megaton, Rivet City, etc. 
 Save captives, protect innocent travelers from the Super-Mutant-Brutes, etc. Whatever you want 
 to do in real life, but you can't do that, you can do it in hear.
  
  Fallout 3 is a really amazing game, if you don't play it. You will be really missing out on a great 
 game. Whether you enjoyed Fallout, Fallout 2, The Elder Scrolls: Oblivion, Role-Playing-Games, 
 First-Person-Shooters, etc. Fallout 3 is a game will indeed never forget. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamergod317
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 28, 2009 9:46 pm PT
Review:  I bought this for my PS3 platform first, but bought the collector's edition for my 360 once I found 
 out that they were to have exclusive downloadable content. I should start with saying that Fallout 
 is the reason why I am a fan of RPG games. If every RPG game could live up to Fallout 3, the genre 
 would be a lot stronger for years to come. What I liked about this game is that you have a vast 
 world to walk anywhere you like. With all of the slavers, raiders, mutants and all the other enemies 
 on this game; making it hard to put the controller down. I also bought the DLC on the 27th and 
 I enjoy it; its feels more like a soft call of duty. My only wish is that they should make the 
 next Fallout release with an option of playing online with all the other xbox live gamers who would 
 be playing Fallout. THIS GAME HAS A LOT OF POTENTIAL. It raised the bar for games that are coming 
 out in the RPG genre. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Paul_GameFury
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 28, 2009 5:01 pm PT
Review:  Fallout 3 is one of those titles that is so much more than a good story with some cool action. 
 Like Fable 2, it is meant to simulate living the life of your character. If you just jump in and 
 go straight from one story mission to the next, you will be missing the vast majority of it's content. 
 For this reason, it can be better described as an 'experience' rather than just a 'game.'
  
  While the spirit of the series remains intact, the gameplay itself has more in common with 
 Oblivion. This is understandable since Bethesda made both games and didn't have anything to do 
 with the first two Fallout titles. The series switched to first person view and real-time combat. 
 Although I did miss the top-down, turn-based strategy of the first games, the change is handled 
 well. The focus is even more on combat this time around and plays much like a first person shooter. 
 The one major difference is the use of V. A. T. S. (Vault-Tec Assisted Targeting System) . This system 
 freezes time and zooms in on your target. Percentages appear on each part of your enemy that tell 
 you your chance to hit each location. The expected areas can be shot, like the head, arms, torso, 
 or legs. Other things can be targeted as well; my personal favorite being grenades in a raider's 
 hand. This system cannot be used constantly, but it recharges at a fairly quick rate. Running around 
 will slow down the recharge while finding a spot to hide will make it come back in a few seconds. 
 If gamers preferred the slow paced strategy of the previous games, they can rely entirely on the 
 V. A. T. S system. Action junkies can completely ignore the system and play the game just like a shooter. 
 It's a brilliant setup that helps the game reach a much broader audience. One glitch that did bother 
 me about V. A. T. S. occurred when an enemy got right up in my face and I tried to target them with 
 a longer gun, such as a shotgun or rifle. Many times, the barrel of the gun would go through the 
 enemies body and when fired, the shot would miss. Not only did this look dumb, it also left me 
 open to attack from an enemy that should have most likely been killed. I also thought that the 
 enemies in the game could use some more variety. The vast majority of your battles (especially 
 during the main quest) will be against either raiders or super mutants. You are also thrown very 
 quickly into fights with these enemies, so they aren't as intimidating by the end of the game in 
 comparison to the last two titles in the series. The deathclaws from the past games don't even 
 make an appearance in the main quest. I only happened to stumble across a town overrun by them 
 in my random wanderings.
  
  Outside of battles, the other part of the game would be the in town interaction with NPCs. This 
 is where the game shows off it's great writing and voice acting. In nearly every situation, I genuinely 
 cared about what each person was talking about and never got tired of talking to random people. 
 Conversation can play out completely differently depending on each player. For example, if your 
 character has a high intelligence, there may be conversation options that are too technical for 
 a character that isn't as smart to be able to say. There will be other options that will allow 
 you to attempt to talk your way out of a situation based on your speech skill. Some of my favorite 
 moments where the ones where I know I was able to talk my way out of a fight with a skill check 
 that had a chance to go either way. The series did lose some of it's humor this time around. Most 
 of these interactions felt a little too serious in comparison to the overall tone of the previous 
 games.
  
  Ammo is a bit more scarce than I would have liked early on. I didn't mind having to scrounge for 
 items to sell in order to make money, but the shops don't seem to get resupplied as often as they 
 should. Also, the ammo crates found while out exploring never had much in them either. These are 
 the same crates that the military uses to store hundreds of bullets in, but I never really found 
 more than ten in each. As the game progresses, ammo becomes easier to get a hold of, but the beginning 
 seems far more difficult than it should have been because of this issue.
  
  Leveling up is less like Oblivion and more like traditional RPGs. Every quest and enemy killed 
 give you experience and leveling up is based solely on earned exp. At each level, you are given 
 skill points (the exact number depends on several different things and can change throughout the 
 game) to spend on whatever you wish. The skills are basically the same as in past games, but the 
 max level is now one hundred instead of three hundred. The max character level is twenty. I don't 
 particularly like the idea of not having unlimited levels for the characters. It just doesn't make 
 sense that there is a point where I can't get any better at my repair skill because earlier I spent 
 too much time improving my small guns ability. I think if a player wants to put the time into the 
 game to max out every skill, they should have that option. It is also too easy to waste points 
 that could have been used elsewhere. There is almost a countless number of books around the world 
 that raise your skills by one point. If your skill is already maxed, the book is wasted, which 
 means you could have used that point on a different skill. It's even worse in the case of the hidden 
 bobble-heads that raise your skills by ten. Once I got a skill above eighty, I was afraid to put 
 more points into it because of the off chance that I might find other ways to increase it.
  
  In an attempt to fully immerse the player their character's life, the game starts at the exact 
 moment of your birth. You then play through key moment of the next nineteen years of your characters 
 lifetime as you grow up inside the vault, safe from the harsh outside world. Not only does this 
 set up the game perfectly, it is also a superbly disguised tutorial and character creator. Right 
 after birth, you select your race and gender. As a toddler, you find a baby book outside of your 
 playpen that explains each statistic in the exact manner that you would expect to find in a book 
 written for children. There are several other things introduced in this segment that lay out the 
 framework of your character and give you the feel for the game. Once you reach the end of this 
 section, you have one last chance to edit your character before thing are permanently set. Once 
 you exit the vault and enter the main game world, you are free to do as you wish. You can search 
 for your father that has gone missing (played by Liam Neeson from Batman Begins and Star Wars: 
 The Phantom Menace) or just go out and live your life as you see fit.
  
  I wasn't completely sold on the size of the world and cities in the game. The last Fallout game 
 covered the entire west coast of America, but this one only takes place in Washington D. C. and 
 the surrounding area. While several of the locations in the last game really felt like large, bustling 
 cities, nothing in Fallout 3 feels bigger than a small settlement. This can be good because it 
 is easier to find shops and important people, but it made the game feel less epic in scale. It 
 is understandable that the world is smaller since the entire environment is rendered in 3D; not 
 like the last game that was only an overhead map that would randomly generate a small grid for 
 encounters. I think one or two more large towns would have really helped. Traveling around is handled 
 quite well. You must walk to each location once. Once reached, it becomes marked on your map and 
 you can fast travel there any time you wish (provided you are outdoors and there are no enemies 
 around) . This forces you to see all of the land at least once, but eliminates the monotony of making 
 the same trek over and over to commonly visited places. One more thing that bothered me was the 
 way the game ends. Once you complete the final mission and the credits roll, you are dumped back 
 to the title screen. This would have been the perfect game to continue playing just to explore 
 without the pressure of a story quest, but you aren't given that option. Also (partial spoiler) , 
 one of the endings I played made me sacrifice myself by walking into a highly radiated room to 
 activate a machine. I had a super mutant with me that is immune to radiation, but I wasn't allowed 
 to ask him to go into the room and was forced to die in the end. Not only do I hate when games 
 kill the main character (although you do have the choice to follow a different ending) , but it 
 is worse when it doesn't make any sense as to why.
  
  The graphics are perfect for the game. There is always something new to see or find. I spent several 
 different play sessions just randomly wandering around just to see what I could stumble across. 
 The city of Washington D. C. looks just like you would expect after a nuclear war. Freeways are 
 still in place, but mostly crumbled. All the major monuments can be found, but are broken and deteriorated. 
 I did feel that most of the indoor areas were far too dark. It was easy to miss a container of 
 supplies in the corner simply because it was impossible to spot without being right on top of it. 
 While I understand caves and ruins being dark, many places that should have been well lit still 
 weren't. Operational vaults in the last two games were very brightly lit, whereas in Fallout 3, 
 they still had dimly lit corridors and dark corners. All of the NPCs look great and there is a 
 good number of character models, so you won't be talking to people that look exactly the same over 
 and over. I thought the gore was a bit too over the top. Early on, being able to blow extremities 
 off simply by targeting them seems cool. When someone's head gets blow off in nearly every single 
 firefight, the experience starts to get a little stale. I don't think that the enemies should have 
 been any harder to kill, just that dismembering them should not have been so commonplace.
  
  Even with my few complaints, Fallout 3 is still one of the best RPGs on the Xbox 360. The game 
 easily has over thirty hours of game play, and much more if you search for all it has to offer. 
 Since there are several endings and different experiences depending on whether you play as a good 
 or bad person, this game will have you playing for a long time to come. As a fan of the Fallout 
 games right from the beginning, I have to say that the second one is still a superior game, but 
 this is a worthy addition to the series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mnkysage
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 28, 2009 4:57 pm PT
Review:  The game starts out with your birth which lets you begin to customize your character. When ever 
 you complete a segment of the customization a couple of years will pass and another element of 
 the back story and customization is revealed. After completion your forced out into the barren 
 wasteland with little more than a pistol and a handful of bullets in search of your father.
  
  The game will seem very difficult at first giving you nothing for free, you will have to work 
 for everything. The missions and travel time between areas will seem painfully long at first but 
 soon enough with the V. A. T. S. (Vaultech Assisted Targeting System) travel and combat will become 
 second nature. This is also about the time when you'll notice how many possible ways there are 
 to complete missions and how rewarding and creative the missions really are.
  
  My final review, the game is amazing. The replay value is incredibly high and with the recent DLC 
 and two more promised in the following months the game is worth being a part of anyone's collection. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: roaljalm
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 27, 2009 11:01 pm PT
Review:  This is my first review. I think Fallout 3 is a truly great rpg. It has a lot of content and replay-ability, 
 since you can have multiple outcomes for many of your decisions and interactions with NPC's. My 
 first go through I got the evil at 8th achievement then the neutral at 14th then finally the good 
 at 20th. It was neat to see the different reactions of npc's to my Karma. I thought the char gen 
 was great ( it is also cool that you can get a facelift and change you look) . I have played all 
 the old Fallout versions and can say this one really holds up well versus the best of them. (Fallout 
 tactics was horrible real time with multiple characters really just meant i had a squad of sidelined 
 walking wounded warriors) Mostly I encountered very few Bugs that detracted from gameplay. Although 
 Npc's that died before i could even talk to them kinda stank. I dont like 1st person shooters, 
 But the fps facets to this game were playable and didnt interfere with the rpg elements. I am looking 
 forward to the DLC coming out in the first few months of 2009 (Especially the march one that adds 
 content and raises the level limit to 30) . Well i hope this rambling review helps people decide 
 to purchase this game. 
  
  Times are tight and we all want the most for our money. In my opinion Fallout 3 is worth the money. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DRAGONslayer5p9
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 27, 2009 7:18 pm PT
Review:  this game has awsome grafics, and its awsome. i think that its one of the greatest games of all 
 time. this game is no resident evil 5, but its still awsome. the game play is sweet. the enimys 
 are cool looking. the variety of weapons and healing items is almost non stop, and the action in 
 the game seems like it never ends un less your in a town. another cool thing is that you can customize 
 your charactor, and make him look awsome or funny. controlls are easy , and the aiming is pretty 
 cool two. there is plenty of armor, and when its hit, you have to repair it. one of my favorite 
 things is the open environment. with the open environment makes the game almost unbeatable, and 
 when you play you almost never want to put down the controller. so the game is vary realistic. 
 so overall it deserves a 9.5, the only downfall is the length of the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bobhoffnee1985
Rating: 5
Date: Jan 27, 2009 1:56 am PT
Review:  I know a lot of people are going to scoff at this review, but it is my personal opinion!
  
  I thought Fallout 3 was ... well, not so good.
  
  Upon starting the game I was greatly impressed 
 with "play through your childhood" aspect and was gripped until getting to Megaton and doing some 
 quests.
  
  Talk about grind! In my opinion, the whole class system is lame. Why give you all the options at 
 the start when you dont know how they all work and how often you will use them? I'm of course talking 
 about talents and the like.
  
  Then there's the whole scavaging for ammo, and yeah, this is post apocalyptic and not much ammo 
 about but I don't care. When the enemies are equppied to the nines it's depressing..
  
  People who say this is better then Oblivion really confuse me because it is quite clearly not. 
 Oblivion was a much better balanced game and it was prettier too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mastriania
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 26, 2009 9:19 pm PT
Review:  Believe the post-nuculear holocaust hype! Once again, Bethesda rocks our worlds with a game so 
 unique and so special (and extremely elaborate, might I add) that I'm surprised it even exists. 
 It makes Oblivion look like Nintendogs as far as sophistication and style points go. This is categorically 
 and definitively one of those games that you just can't put down. There are so many social options 
 alone, and we're not talking the classic "Will you help me?" (if so, you're a 'good guy, if not, 
 you're a 'bad guy') . There are multiple layers, options, and story arcs that can be spawned from 
 building a relationship with a single NPC. As far as graphics go, I was pleased to learn that the 
 game can be played in both 1st person and 3rd person perspective. You can switch between these 
 even mid-battle. The battle system is balanced, exciting and new weapons seem to be everywhere 
 (as long as you're searching a dead raider's body) . The learning curve for the basic controls for 
 this game could maybe max out at 20 minutes (assuming you've actually read the instructions, which 
 I would suggest to anyone playing this title) . There are lots of features in this game that I haven't 
 seen anywhere else and I won't spoil them for you. You'll have to see them for yourself. Just roaming 
 around and exploring has never been so fun. There is a main story which definitely does not have 
 an "on rails" feeling, but there are side quests galore for those of you who really want an immersive 
 experience. I paid almost full retail for this game and don't regret it one bit. In short... graphics: 
 phenomenal! lush! on par with a gaming pc ... gameplay: balanced, does not become bland, a lot 
 of thought went into it during the game's four year development process ... replay potential: limitless. 
 My wife and I started playing this game on the same day and are both on completely different paths 
 (with right around the same amount of time logged) . We even have radically different relationships 
 with certain main NPC's. Treat yourself to one of the best titles the XBOX 360 has to offer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: secretnoob
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 26, 2009 7:34 pm PT
Review:  Right off the bat, I would like to say that this is not the God send that I was hoping for. I really 
 thought this was going to be an amazing game, along the lines of Bioshock with more emphasis on 
 the RPG elements than FPS as Bethesda seemed to be following along the lines of the Elder Scrolls 
 series more closely. 
  
  However
  
  This is not that great of a game, at all. Sad, but true
  
  In Fallout 3, it is the future, 
 again, and you begin the game awkwardly talking to your dad about how you want to look in the future 
 while still hovering uncomfortably between your mother's legs. You quickly grow up thanks to magical 
 flashes of light which make you age VERY quickly, until your father breaks out to of the underground 
 Vault which, supposedly, no one ever leaves. You follow him out of the Vault into the vast, post 
 apocalyptic world, and begin your search for your beloved Papa. 
  
  First I will talk about the good, because it is a far quicker list to get out of the way, being 
 epicly shorter than the bad. Graphics are impressive on the PS3 and XBOX 360, but then again, what 
 graphics aren't impressive nowadays. Also the VATS system's results are gory and satisfying. I, 
 surprisingly, never grew tired of blasting a super mutant in the teeth and watching bits of his 
 skull fly away. It's also fun to get a critical hit with a BB gun on a Feral Ghoul's head and, 
 as a result of being shot in the head, watching his 4 other extremities going flying over the horizon. 
 And some guns, such as the Fat Man (mini nuke) are incredibly creative and impressive. Also the 
 soundtrack is good and I never turned off my radio, even if Three Dog was talking. Which leads 
 to another plus: voice acting. Kind of. Of course Liam Neeson was good for the 7 lines he has, 
 but the majority of the voice acting was decent at best. 
  
  Now for things I noticed which NO ONE else seemed to care about. 
  
  This game is not immersive. 
 By no means whatsoever, having questions shoved in your face for the first 10 minutes of the game 
 is not character development. It is terrible pacing, instead of developing a character over time, 
 you decide who you will be from the very beginning by deciding whether or not to share cake. Also, 
 the vast environment is impressive at first, but grows stale when you realize it ALL looks the 
 same. The exact same. Same highway, same rocks, same tunnels. 
  
  Also it's weird to have the option to customize your character when the game is a FIRST PERSON 
 SHOOTER. Did anyone at Bethesda think about that? And if you want to see (the un-customized) back 
 of your head (which is covered up by a helmet) you can go into to third person view. But beware, 
 this is the poorest attempt at a third person view I have ever seen. Your toon runs like a badly 
 animated Sims creation, and is almost dead center in the screen, covering anything you would like 
 to shoot. Mass Effect, Resident Evil, Gears, there are so many good examples of over the shoulder 
 combat, but this attempt in Fallout is so poor, it's as if Bethesda couldn't figure it out, but 
 refused to research other games for tips. Sad really. And it's all very weird and seems rushed. 
 
  
  The combat is broken. Which is sad for a FPS/RPG, in which both elements of all those letters is 
 bad. RPG elements are broken, after pumping in all my points into small weapons, assuming strong 
 guns are strong enough, I still could not defeat a basic RadScorpion without emptying an entire 
 clip of Assault Rifle ammo. Also it's a good thing VATS was done well, because operating the game 
 as a regular shooter is like asking for a Laser bullet sandwich with a side of lead in the face. 
 
  
  Also letting the fact that Bethesda still cannot seem to make their NPC's gestures match their 
 words is inexcusable at this point in the technology age. Their stiff posture every single time 
 I talk to someone grew old the first time
  
  This game is also subject to what I call the Mass Defect, coined from Mass Effect's HUGE flaw. 
 Dialogue. I don't want to talk that much. It's annoying. I dreaded arriving to a new city, knowing 
 I would have to quiz NPC's about the going ons around town and that they would tell me in the most 
 long, drawn out manner possible. 
  
  This is not the worst game of all time, but it is by no means the golden Mountain Dew that the 
 world was promised, and that fact should not be kept Secret any more.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nokoryous
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jan 26, 2009 1:21 pm PT
Review:  I know this game has been getting high reviews, and maybe I didn't get to the good meat of the 
 game cuz I gave up so early, but I mean seriously, it became a chore for me to play after several 
 hours. Technically, there wasn't a lot wrong with the game. I enjoyed the thorough detail of the 
 landscapes and all the objects and items there are to be interacted with. I enjoy how you really 
 have to scrounge to find a little ammo here and there, and there are a LOT of places to find stuff 
 scattered about. That is cool. But in the end, I found myself not really enjoying the game, and 
 struggling to push through missions.
  
  The voice acting in some of the game is annoying, and some of it really good, depending who you 
 talk to, but you cannot bag a cooler voice talent than Liam Neason! It almost brought a tear to 
 my eye to hear the ol' Irish rebel guide my character through childhood. I mean, I would gladly 
 play an entire 100 hour video game where Liam Neason just talks to me. And I would rate it a 10.
 
  
  Some things I didn't like were the monochrome environments where it is often hard to distinguish 
 a rabid dog or a giant fire ant from the rocks crumbled all around you. Often, you can hear your 
 attacker coming before you can see them. Occasionally, you die before you see them. And it doesn't 
 help when you're in a jam and it takes 2 or 3 or 6 head shots to kill enemies. Plus, aiming normally 
 without the fancy VATS system is just hard, and wastes precious low ammo. Like spending money on 
 a Valentine's gift.
  
  On the whole (stop laughing, Scott) , this game offers a lot of variety and it is cool how many 
 options you get to decide your path when talking to quest-givers. But it felt like combat was shorted, 
 which crippled the game's fun factor. Take the money you would have spent on this game and go buy 
 the DVD's Batman Begins, Love Actually, Kingdom of Heaven, Rob Roy, and get a ticket to Taken. 
 Because the only thing you miss by not playing Fallout 3 is some QT with Liam. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: whitemalteser99
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 26, 2009 11:33 am PT
Review:  I found this game to be very good and although I don't feel it to be a proper fallout game I felt 
 that it was interesting and well thought through. ( I come at this game from an unbiased view and 
 do not deduct or add marks for it being different to the other fallout games)
  
  Many people complain that it's just 'Oblivion with guns' and while I do believe they have gone 
 along the same guidelines I believe that they have improved their styles in many ways. Sneaking 
 is far better, they have made battling far more exciting with many types of weapons and they have 
 made people's expressions a little more smooth (but still not at its best) .
  
  VATS is incredibly fun to use and a very unique piece of the game. Of course it's overpowered but 
 would you really want to take it out? The slow motion adds to the effects of the blood and gore 
 and makes it all that more realistic yet still fun.
  
  The wasteland is an interesting place, although it can be a little grating walking through places 
 that look the same, the constant battles and new places to explore and quests make for interesting 
 finds.
  
  The main quest is far too short and perhaps a little too simply thought out. It does contain some 
 little surprises but it seems to bring you quite quickly into the action near end game instead 
 of slowly building up to it. This can be quite irritating for people who may just want to rent 
 the game and just try and finish it and find out the game gets harder all of a sudden.
  
  I enjoyed the radio and found the songs to be quite easy to listen to. Although I will say that 
 there was few songs and that many radio stations repeated themselves it was still enjoyable to 
 sneak up on a super mutant and listen to some great Jazz.
  
  I found the repair system irritating and although I liked the fact that you could use other variations 
 of a weapon to repair another I found some items in the game un-repairable or only repairable at 
 a shop and they couldn't even fix it up to its full health. This made some items that were stronger 
 at full health great but simply became useless then to use when it degraded so that it became worse 
 than other items .
  
  The one thing that seriously ticked me off in this game was the computer/lockpick skills. Why? 
 You ask? Well the reason I don't like them is because I found them almost necessary to play the 
 game. I thought they would simply help you take little shortcuts and help you shut down certain 
 things but it seems like to survive you need high lockpick and computer skills. Why? It seems that 
 nearly every stash needs to be lockpicked or that to shut down a turret you always need to hack 
 a computer terminal. Hardly anyone carries keys for any of these locked containers or codes to 
 these computers even if they own the bloody thing. This gives an incredibly unfair advantage to 
 the players who prefer to not train those skills as they will soon realise that to keep constant 
 supplies in this game they are going to have to learn lockpicking or computing. I found that whenever 
 I made a new Character I basically had to pick these skills as they made the game manageable. 
 
  
  On a lighter note enemies are just great fun to kill, be it super mutants or the occasional freaky 
 zombie ghoul. The blood and gore is superb and the combat system can be very intense. The ability 
 to cripple enemies in body parts makes battle fun and that you need to reserve ammo made fighting 
 that much tougher. The game still is a bit too easy and you can rack up many healing items so that 
 you can just be practically invincible because they have no weight. 
  
  There isn't much weapons but the variety is amazing such as the laser pistol which will turn your 
 enemy into a pile of ashes or you could set a mine which will blow their legs off, this is what 
 makes the game a truly enjoyable experience.
  
  
  All in all I recommend this game because even with all the glitches and the short main storyline, 
 the side quests and just all the little details make this game an innovative game. It isn't anything 
 like fallout 1 or 2 but maybe they were trying to make it completely different and they sure succeeded. 
 So before you play this game come at it with an unbiased attitude and just try to enjoy it without 
 trying to poke holes in this great game. That way you'll enjoy it more and even after that if you 
 still don't enjoy it, well you can always say that you actually tried to.
  
  Rating: 8/10
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mprezzy
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 26, 2009 9:56 am PT
Review:  Fallout 3 is everything a RPG should be, immersive, full of intricate dialogue and choices, and 
 combat to boot. Tons of NPC's abound, and the environment is fairly vast. Enough said?
  
  Well, there are some things that MIGHT be off-putting to casual gamers or even hard-core gamers. 
 The environment is rightly destitute for being post-apocalyptic in nature... but it thus becomes 
 very DRAB. It's unfriendly to the eyes, and the interest of the setting might be replaced by the 
 dreariness of it. Thankfully, you can adjust the HUD color to something more eye-friendly to you.
 
  
  The PIP Boy 3000 is somewhat interesting and innovative, and somewhat silly. The awful cartoon 
 character that represents your health status is one thing that seems just... awful. Other problems 
 that are mainstays in RPG's abound and are exemplified.
  
  For instance: if you are "crippled," how is it that sleep cures it? Hrm.
  
  How is it that 
 you may shoot someone in their unprotected face and they don't die instantly? Do post-apocalyptic 
 humans become resiliant to bullets? Armor I can understand, but when you shoot the woman in the 
 dress, there's no reason she should take 8 bullets and keep coming at you.
  
  The vast amount of gameplay and "Choose Your Own Adventure," style dialogue makes the value tilt 
 of this game greatly in its favor. If you don't get too hung up on the intricacies that can be 
 annoying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BlueDvl228
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 25, 2009 5:48 pm PT
Review:  Although I've never played either of the first two games in the Fallout series and I thought Elder 
 Scrolls 3: Morrowind was something lacking, Fallout 3 is a definate must. The amount of gameplay 
 you will get for the money is beyond a doubt worth it. The depth of the quests will keep you playing 
 until the wee hours of the night before your mind can manage over your fingers to stop playing.
 
  
  The first thing noticeable about Fallout 3 is the storyline (as you will start as an infant and 
 grow to adulthood) . You are taken from the beginning of your life and mature to the age of 19. 
 Along the way you will meet friends and enemies and talking to each of them only brings more depth 
 to the plot. If you are one of those people that has to know everything within a game, you can 
 count on easily doubling your game-playing hours by finding out as much as you can about each person.
 
  
  The second thing I noticed were the graphics and the sheer volume of space you have to roam in 
 the Wasteland. The graphics, for the most part, are superb. I am one of those people that cares 
 about gore, and Fallout 3 definately exploits my thirst-quenching feeling for blood. It's one thing 
 to be able to shoot someone and blood fly out, but Fallout 3 takes it a step further by being able 
 to target a specific body part using V. A. T. S. and blowing it off. This may seem "gory", but the 
 fact remains that death is a part of the game, and Bethesda Softworks puts reality into it.
  
  The Wasteland is made of a 16 square mile sandbox for one's enjoyment, and in order to explore 
 every nook and cranny of every room, in every building, in every town you can easily count on 60+ 
 hours of scavenging. Early in the game, ammo and bottlecaps (money) are hard to come by, so exploring 
 in depth is a definate must!
  
  To conclude, Fallout 3 is one of the best games available right now. This is survival, action, 
 and role-playing homogenated into one great game. Although there is not much replay value once 
 you beat the game, the amount of time spent doing every little quest and exploring every little 
 thing makes the time playing it worthwhile. Great job Bethesda and I can't wait until Operation 
 Anchorage! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kwh1te24
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 25, 2009 7:22 am PT
Review:  Fallout 3 is incredible as the beginning starts out slow and is a little dull, but don't worry 
 because the more and more you do in the game, the more and more you will want to play it and get 
 addicted. When I first played the game and I was in vault 101, yes I was a little bored. Once you 
 get out of the vault and you get the chance to explore and start quests, you will regret ever saying 
 that in the beginning Fallout 3 was boring. There is so much to do! I mean you can explore all 
 over the map with so many different locations to do. With the quests, they are so in-dept and for 
 a lot of the quests there's a lot to do for them that will keep you occupied while having a blast. 
 O, I almost forgot. There's a lot of weapons in the game. I think there's over 100 weapons in the 
 game and almost all of them are good and powerful but you have to conserve your ammo and know when 
 to use your melee weapons and when to shoot enemies or else you will have a very tough time defeating 
 super mutants even you even survive long enough to see one. I recommend this game to anyone, whether 
 your favorite genre is sports games or if its massive multiplayer games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CriticR83r
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 24, 2009 11:46 am PT
Review:  One of the best games i have ever played. The story line is amazing. Character building is interesting. 
 But the game does havea few minor glitches. Being able to choose wether you want to be a good or 
 bad guy was genuis. In most games its allways good guy. But in F3 its your choice. Amazing graphics 
 and a good wide range of wepon optoins. Its one of those "I wish i could do this all day" kinda 
 games. I do debate myself if the game would be any good with multi-player. With such a wide range 
 of optoins nin the game it probably would be weird. And be much to hard. I love the "what to do 
 now" that goes on and on in your had when you feel like youve gotten somewhere in the game. Even 
 though you havent gotten anywhere which makes you want to play the game for ever. The game is kick 
 azz just cause you cant do anything like that in boring ol' RL 
::::::

::::::
UserName: impl0sion
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 24, 2009 3:15 am PT
Review:  This game is so big and there are alot of sidequests to do, it will keep you busy for a long time 
 if you can get into it. If you rush through the main storyline you will really be missing out, 
 you will only explore around a third of the whole city. 
  
  There are loads of guns, perks and armour, so each playthrough can be very different. 
  
  The 
 weapon degredation system works well, it means you can't stick to one weapon for the whole playthrough.
 
  
  The skills system is different to oblivion, it uses a points upgrade system instead of a training 
 system where you gain xp for doing that skill.
  
  Bethesda have announeced three expansion packs also so fresh content will be cropping up for a 
 while. This game is one of the best of 2008, you will really be missing out if you don't get it.
 
  
  And there are great headshots. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Madcows
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 28, 2009 5:00 pm PT
Review:  This game is really great if you're in to the role playing games. Graphics are excellent and so 
 is the sound. There are a bunch of weapons and the environments are huge and look great. You have 
 your basic guns your big guns and you can also make guns it's really great. There are a lot of 
 main missions and side missions. You create the character and that is how you react to the people 
 and the environment. And the game will act according to your actions. If you're nice people want 
 to deal with you. If not, get ready for a bounty on your head. You could write pages in reviewing 
 this game. Bottom line is if you like role playing games you will lose your life. Get the add on 
 for this game it is worth it. It's fun and will help you in the regular game. (WARNING!) When Jessica 
 Alba and Megan Fox call and say. Hey we are getting all of our super models friends together and 
 are having a jello wrestling contest. And we want you to be the judge you will have to say "Sorry 
 girls but I have Fall out 3". 
::::::

::::::
UserName: picklesrocks
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 23, 2009 11:04 am PT
Review:  Fallout 3 the long awaited RPG by bethesda softworks has finally arrived and after hours of playing 
 i have come to a verdict and here is the review.
  
  Gameplay: Fallout 3 is essentially a first person shooter but with RPG elements put in to spice 
 things up which works but the combat can be mildly cluncky but it doesnt frag the game down thankfully. 
 You begin the game in the vault after a massive nuclear war which has destroyed most of the earth, 
 im not going to give any more of the story away but you once you escape from the vault thats where 
 the game truly begins. The game is stunning to look at and has lots of features like radiation 
 and condition to take in but unlike oblivion fallout 3 is expirience base, not skill based (thank 
 god) which makes going up levels simpler. Fallout is extremely violent like the originals which 
 i adored but it seems a bit too much, i mean im not saying that it isnt fun im just saying that 
 it goes to far. Probably because whenever you shoot someones head off their head always rolls away 
 never blows up even after being hit with a rocket launcher, but the voilence fits the mood. Also 
 its way to easy to be evil and pretty difficult to be good which makes the karma scale a bit dumb 
 and some of the choices you get are absurd, e. g "im a business man my name is mr Burke i want you 
 to blow up this town becasue my boss thinks it looks ugly." Thats when fallout's dialogue is messy 
 and certain character seem to have no real reason behind their madness. The weapons are all over 
 the map with some being insanely overpowered and some being weaker than a BB gun. But fallout 3 
 does have a lot to do and the map is pretty big so its worthwhile for gameplay if you can put up 
 with some flaws.
  
  Sound: Fallout 3 varies in this department granted that most guns sound the same and explosions 
 also all sound the same which is pretty dissapointing. The voice acting is mostly good but all 
 the old men are done by one actor and by god is he terrible, don't believe me? go talk to nathen 
 in megaton and see what i mean, but voice acting is mostly good the best being Liam Neesan and 
 the voice of your father who is exceptional in his role.
  
  Graphics: Fallout 3 is great here with the landscape looking scorched and ruined by the years and 
 the nukes but there is still one insanely frustrating issue that was in oblivion, say you are in 
 the 3rd person view and you notice you holstered pistol is not actually attached to your armour 
 just floating there, and some guns go through armour which leaves you asking why could'nt bethesda 
 even sort this little kink out.
  
  Overall: Fallout 3 is a great game but don't expect a brilliant game, sure its good but once you 
 do everything in one playthrough thats the end of it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: splintercell88
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jan 22, 2009 1:46 pm PT
Review:  I was among the many people who eagerly lapped up every last bit of information that Bethesda doled 
 out, bit by agonizing bit. Fallout 3 looked, simply put, amazing. With the massive wasteland, amazing 
 dev team, and revered Fallout name, I was expecting the epic that would have me put down Oblivion 
 for once. Well, how wrong was I? 
  
  You start out in Vault 101. The beginning is boring, and too long, in my opinion. You start out 
 as just opening your eyes at birth, and the game tries to get you all emotionally attached thereafter. 
 I didn't get even close to emotionally attached. I just wanted to get out of the darn vault and 
 explore a bit. Once you do (finally) make your way out of the vault, after an escape that tries 
 to be harrowing, you are confronted by the wasteland. The big, beautiful, repetitive wasteland. 
 Look out in the distance, *gasp* all you can see is endless orange haze. Look over there, more 
 orange haze. Are there any different regions to this wasteland? Oh no, every area you explore is 
 the exact same and it gets extremely boring after just a few hours. That is one major disappointment 
 of this game. 
  
  The combat in Fallout 3 is alright, but it just didn't draw me in. The VATS system is cool and 
 all, but it's nothing like I expected. Same with the actual gunplay, you kind of just shoot, and 
 hope to god you hit the guy. The enemies in this game can be tough. I saw the game over screen 
 a bit more than I would have wanted to, and at some parts of the wasteland, the game had me taking 
 on like 6 super mutants with 15 hunting rifle rounds. And each mutant needs at least 6 rounds. 
 The combat just becomes frustrating at times. 
  
  Yeah, the graphics are pretty and all (most of the time) but since there is nothing unique to look 
 at, even the graphics didn't help this game much. The sound is also pretty good. 
  
  All in all, I think Fallout 3 was my biggest disappointment in games, ever. I really wish I could 
 like it more, but I just can't bring myself to play this over Oblivion. After playing this game, 
 it has made me understand that old saying even better. Don't judge a book by its cover. You'll 
 regret it if you do.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: paul_hubans
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 2, 2009 3:27 am PT
Review:  I'm a 27-year-old gamer that hearkens from the school of old, back when the NES was all the rage. 
 I remember when games were art, and they didn't have to be realistic or technologically astounding 
 to be enjoyed. I felt like a lot of games today were the exact opposite; they were more focused 
 on looking good rather than playing well and being fun. As for Fallout 3, this was certainly not 
 the case.
  
  I don't own a 360, but I decided to give this game a shot on my little brother's console while 
 visiting home for the holidays. Although I had never played a Fallout game before, the post-apocalyptic 
 theme was appealing to me. Beyond that, I had little idea what the game would be like. I was in 
 for a surprise that surpassed all expectations. I instantly fell in love with this game and played 
 for about 15 hours straight during my first time playing.
  
  At it's heart, Fallout 3 is a true RPG. By true RPG I'm not talking about the kind of RPGs I grew 
 up playing on consoles, where you pick your attacks and mash the A button. No, Fallout 3 is more 
 akin to the truest of all RPGs; the table top RPG like Dungeons & Dragons. Each interior area is 
 like a dungeon, loaded with treasures, traps, and enemies. Only by exploring each room will you 
 uncover its mysteries, and if you're lucky, you'll make it out alive.
  
  Aside from having the core mechanics of an RPG, this is one of the first times I've seen a game 
 of this genre seamlessly incorporate the interface of an FPS. But to take it one step further, 
 Fallout 3 implements the VATS mechanic which allows you to target specific parts of enemies with 
 a variable hit percentage. Aside from its practical applications, VATS creates an epic cinematic 
 experience each time as the bullets fly in slow-motion.
  
  I have nothing but praise for Fallout 3 and it is actually a major motivator in my decision to 
 finally purchase an XBox 360. Overall, I got to play this game for about 40 hours and typically 
 that would be enough time to beat most games, but in this vast and immersive world it was merely 
 a small dent. I look forward to the day when I can once again sink myself into this incredible 
 gameplay experience! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SomnolentAngel
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 21, 2009 6:00 pm PT
Review:  I will first start off by saying that I have played every Bethesda game there is, starting with 
 The Elder Scrolls: Arena. Arena, in my opinion, is still one of the best role-playing experiences 
 to emerge on the PC, a testament to the creativity at Bethesda Softworks. I have also played the 
 original Interplay Fallout games, which were just as addictive as the Elder Scrolls games. I was 
 psyched when I heard that Fallout 3 was going to be made AND it was being made by Bethesda, a match 
 made in heaven.
  
  I have not completed this game, only just beginning play Christmas day of 2008. Now, nearly a month 
 later, I've gotten to put in about 10-20 hours [Im a gamer dad/husband, so I don't get huge blocks 
 of "stress management" time ;) ] I've can hear the controller calling to me from the other room 
 while I'm spending family time. Come play with the super muties! But ever moment I have had to 
 play has been a true adventure. I have a 46 inch LCD LG 1080p as my primary Xbox monitor. 5.1 Surround 
 and the lights turned down. Sometimes when its really late at night, you almost forget you're playing 
 a game. But, then a Mirelurk pops up with that huge red eye and you hit the TATS button and make 
 it the target of your chinese pistol. 
  
  All in all, as you can see from the screenshots and reviews around the net, this game is absolutely 
 every penny of the 60bux. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eajack
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 21, 2009 6:47 am PT
Review:  I sank 100+ hours into Oblivion and never finished (barely started) the main quest. Fallout 3 is 
 very much like Oblivion... but better. When the credits rolled on Fallout 3, I had spent 120+ hours 
 in the game. And in all that time, I don't think I explored more than half of the available locations. 
 The main story is engaging, but somewhat predictable. The climax and endgame are exciting, particularly 
 your "epic" trek to the final location, but pale in comparison to the truly amazing final 3-4 hours 
 of Mass Effect.
  
  The dialog is engaging, but one-sided. Your character never speaks in the game, giving you a somewhat 
 detached experience. After the excellent character dialog interaction in Mass Effect, there should 
 be no excuse for all other RPGs to follow suit. Generally, the voice acting is very good, but like 
 Oblivion, you can hear that a small group of actors did the voices for the many characters you 
 encounter.
  
  Overall, this is a great game. If you do nothing but the main storyline, you can probably complete 
 it in 10-20 hours. But then you miss most of what the game has to offer. The only downside of exploring 
 the huge environment is that you will max out your level long before you finish the game. Things 
 get pretty easy when your weapon skills hit 100 and you can headshot every enemy in VATS. Beyond 
 that, exploring the Capital Wasteland is a genuinely great experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: calichi716
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 20, 2009 7:48 am PT
Review:  I loved Bethesda's "Elder Scrolls" series because of the depth of game play. With "Fallout 3" Bethesda 
 took that to the next level. The main story mission was kinda short. But the best part of the game 
 is exploring the rest of the world and the side missions. My only real complaint was that when 
 I found a motorcycle gas tank and handbrake. I thought you could build a motorcycle to use like 
 the horse in Oblivion. (hint hint) At least I got to make some weapons with them. Very Cool. From 
 the cars to the food items the retro feel adds a surreal twist to the landscape. The focus on details 
 make the interaction with your surroundings feel almost lifelike. What if everyone started buying 
 things with bottlecaps? Very cool game. Thank you to Bethesda for creating another great title. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spoon1138
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 19, 2009 6:20 pm PT
Review:  I came into this game with an open mind and time between games that I was honestly stoked for. 
 First thing first, I did not play this game to completion, but I did make it to the level cap so 
 I feel that I've seen enough of the game to pass judgment.
  
  Right from the opening the incredible atmosphere and innovative and amusing character creation 
 sucks you in. I felt it was a vast improvement over Oblivion's system in that it was possible to 
 create a character that wasn't utterly butt ugly - although beauty proved again to be elusive. 
 At least it was easy on the eyes, certainly worth the acclaim that it has received to date.
  
  The sheer open-ness of the game is breath taking. The ability to do anything and go anywhere 
 you want from the beginning can be overwhelming, especially considering that several areas are 
 death traps unless properly leveled and equipped.
  
  Like I've said in the deck, its a great game to play while waiting for the next game to come along. 
 There is so much stuff to distract from the main story line, that it is entirely possible to reach 
 the level 20 cap before reaching the end of the story. This is a double edged sword. On one hand 
 you don't need to complete everything to max out your character, the bad news is that my character 
 still felt too much like a work in progress. Had I known I only had 20 levels I would have planned 
 my upgrades much differently. I was expecting another 10-20 levels at least. While I could go back 
 and replay the game with this knowledge in hand but because its just took so long to get to where 
 I stopped I just didn't have it in me to go through all that again.
  
  I may come back to the game later this summer when the number of releases slows to a trickle and 
 I've got time to kill. But most likely not. 
  
  Its a fun game but may not be for everyone considering its length and depth. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WTA2k5
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 19, 2009 4:06 pm PT
Review:  Fallout 3 has finally arrived, and no, it's not Oblivion with guns. If it was, it would have been 
 quite a bit better. But that sounds harsh, the trip to the Capital Wasteland is enjoyable, just 
 not the dream vacation we were all hoping for.
  
  Fallout 3 has a decent (at best) main story arc, in which you must track down your daddy, all the 
 while finding out about a power struggle taking place in the wastes. The story is okay, and brings 
 up some pretty interesting themes, but I honestly found the side quest story lines to be a lot 
 more intriguing.
  
  Fallout 3 plays partly like an RPG, partly like a shooter. The RPG elements work great, you have 
 moral choices to make, and plenty of loot to get with which you can customize your character. The 
 shooting elements, unfortunately, aren't so hot. Shooting from the hip isn't nearly as satisfying, 
 and simply doesn't work as well as in a standard FPS. Then there's the VATS system. Sure it's entertaining 
 to see your kills close up with slow-mo and tons of awesome camera angles, but it's a bit too cheap 
 when during pretty much every fight, you can just press RB and shoot anyone's face off. 
  
  Fallout 3, much like Oblivion, has a huge, open world. There are plenty of cool things to see, 
 but unfortunately, there's not much to do. After the main story (which is only about ten hours 
 or so) you will find that there are only about 20 side quests total. Compared to any other RPG, 
 that's pretty terrible, but hopefully this will be remedied by the monthly DLC.
  
  THIS is the kicker though, and it's about the end of the game (don't worry, no spoilers) . You can't 
 explore after the game ends. You will be sent back to the main menu, and forced to upload a save 
 file. That alone infuriates me.
  
  The graphics are pretty good. The engine is a little old, which is my only real complaint, but 
 
  the game has an excellent art sty. le, and the world is pretty damn huge.
  
  The sound department is without a doubt, the game's strongest point. Fallout features excellent 
 voice overs, eerily fascinating music, and quality sound effects.
  
  Fallout 3 will run you anywhere between 10 and 30 hours. If you simply want to finish the main 
 story, you will be disappointed by the game's length, if you do a fair amount of side quests, the 
 game will still disappoint, clocking in at about 15 hours. Even if you finish all the side quests, 
 and the main story, Fallout 3 is simply a disappointingly short RPG.
  
  Fallout 3 is a game one will truly want to like. One glance at the clever presentation, great art 
 sty. le and brutal kills will get you hooked. But eventually you find some glaring issues with the 
 game, but by then your experience is over, because the game is way too short.
  
  "For man had succeeded in destroying the world, but war... war never changes." 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shootingrobot98
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 19, 2009 8:03 am PT
Review:  Fallout 3 is definitely one of the most unique games I have ever played, with the unique and surprising 
 realistic settings I have seen in a while. This is definitely a game that nobody would want to 
 miss, and the experience (if played right) will make rememeber this game for years to come.
  
  The game's strongest peoint would be its graphics, and although the environmeental textures 
 seem sort of flat up close, the enemies and human characters are very well deisgned. The designers 
 also made a stronge effort in constructing a very plausible appearence of Washington D. C. after 
 a nuclear strike, with the Washington Momument always reminding you where you are if you forget 
 where you are. The game has a large quantity of weapons to find and to blow people up with. Speaking 
 of blowing people up, the blood and gore here is very well implemented, not like games like Brothers 
 in Arms: Hell's Highway and Call of Duty: World at War, where the enemies only lose a limb after 
 taking a grenade to the face. Enemies here will (literally) go up in a mess of millions of bloody 
 guts and bones, and these kills are very satisfing. Sometimes, however, the gore is a little extreme, 
 especially with the Bloody Mess perk, were enemeis will explode into a mess of bloody limbs and 
 brains after taking a Hunting Rifle round to the head. I'm not stating that this is bad, it's just 
 that this takes a few points off the "realness" of this game. The game also has a great number 
 of quests to complete, but these quests can take you hours to complete because of how difficult 
 it is to find the location of the quest's objective. The enemies are large and varied, but can 
 still be a pain as explained below.
  
  The greatest blow to this game, however, is the difficulty of it. Even on Easy, the game is still 
 frustatingly hard, mainly because of how unrealistically resiliant your enemies are, how easy it 
 is for you to get killed, and how ammo in the game is so hard to find. I especially hate it when 
 your weapons in the game begin to break down, and since most of the time finding something to reapir 
 the weapon with is hard to find, this can make your weapons likely to fail you in a firefight. 
 Another thing (going with "how unrealistically resiliant your enemies are") is how shooting your 
 enemies in the head usually does not kill them instantly. It only cripples them, so that they still 
 capable of fighting. I find this completely fake and only makes the game harder. The game also 
 suffers from some glitiches during the game, including some severe drops in frame rate and crashes, 
 which are not frequent but usually occurs when you are doing something important. The third-person 
 animation in the game, while it does not really bother me, is extremely awkward, since youre character 
 really does seem like he/she is skating over the terrain.
  
  If you ignore the difficulty and technical problems, Fallout 3 is definitely something you do not 
 want to miss. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: horrorboy
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 18, 2009 3:10 pm PT
Review:  After waiting 10 years after Fallout 2 came out, and the cancellation of Interplay's 3rd take on 
 the series, Bethesda has decided to step in and take part in the 3rd Fallout game. And it is a 
 good idea they did because this turned out to be a very good game.
  
  The game takes place in the year 2277 in the post-apocalyptic Washington D. C., or also known as 
 "The Capital Wasteland". You start out as either a baby girl or baby boy. You age to 1 where you 
 can choose your different skills you want from S. P. E. C. I. A. L. You then age to 10 and you get your 
 very own Pip-Boy 3000 which acts as your inventory system and can hold many things from weapons 
 to clothes and maps, etc. You then age again to 16 and you take the G. O. A. T. test and that determines, 
 depending on your answers, what skills you can 'Tag'. The skills range from lockpicking to speech, 
 etc, and the skills that are Tagged are raised higher than they were. You then age again to 19, 
 as you are awoken by your best friend saying that your father has left the comfort and safety of 
 the Vault. You escape as you are hunted down, and you emerge into the Capital Wasteland, but that's 
 only the tip of the iceberg. 
  
  Some people may refer to this game as a full fledged FPS, or an RPG, or even both. While there 
 are not swords and bows like there are in Oblivion, there are Guns, Missiles, and some Melee Weapons 
 like Sledgehammers and Knifes. There is also no magic skills in this title, making it feel more 
 realistic than it actually is, as you discover that this could actually happen someday. 
  
  There are many, many, many decisions to make in Fallout 3, if you want to be very good to very 
 bad, or somewhere in between. Blow up a town, save the town, kill anyone in sight, make friends 
 with the people you see, everything is up to you, and each decision has many possible outcomes. 
 The karma system is great as people will act and treat you differently than when you are the total 
 opposite. People may give you items if you have helped them out someway in the past. For instance 
 you can help some people to stop their addictions to drugs, or help a person achieve a specific 
 goal, or just let them do it themselves and watch if they succeed or fail miserably. After helping 
 or saving someone you actually feel like your accomplished something inside of you, and if you 
 kill or hurt someone, then you actually feel a little bit of guilt. It has that much of an impact, 
 especially if you kill one of your followers or one of your friends. 
  
  The atmosphere of Fallout is great, as you can see the Washington Monument and Capital Building 
 in the distance as you exit Vault 101, knowing that you can explore everything at anytime, and 
 you never have to wait for a place to open up in order to explore it. The whole map is about 90% 
 close to the size of Oblivion, which in my opinion is very huge indeed. You may stumble across 
 a small town, shed, or even another Vault, just while randomly exploring the Wasteland. Exploring 
 is definitely rewarding as you may find new weapons or a new side quest, or more people to kill, 
 enslave, or save.
  
  The combat in Fallout 3 is really fun, especially the new VATS system, which lets you target a 
 specific body part on an opponent and lets you blow it off in slow motion greatness, which also 
 end in very bloody results. There are a total of about 30-40 weapons in the game and many range 
 from a typical Assault Rifle, 10mm Submachine Gun, or even the extremely powerful Fat Man which 
 shoots Mini Nukes with devastating results. There are the typical melee weapons, but only a few 
 do good in taking down the Mutants, Raiders and Ghouls that invest the Wasteland.
  
  The game took me approximately 8 hours to beat which is real short, but I mostly rushed through 
 it and I already discovered most of the locations that I had to reach through the main quest. I 
 only finished the Main Quest and a few of the Side Quests in this game, and I am hoping to complete 
 100% by completing all of the Side Quests and to find all of the collectible stuff like Bobbleheads, 
 Holotags, and others. The leveling system is also very unique here, as instead of swimming in a 
 corner for hours and leveling up like you do in Oblivion, all you have to do in this is kill, lockpick, 
 hack, etc. At each new level is a new perk you can choose from and each has a very unique feel 
 to it. The highest level you can go to is 20, which makes the game feel limited, but is soon being 
 raised to 30 when the new DLC arrives.
  
  The story works exceptionally well here as you try to find your father in the desolate and macabre 
 Wasteland. While you are on your way to a specific location in the main quest, you may get completely 
 side-tracked and decide to go somewhere else instead, making the game seem a lot longer. There 
 are a total of about 14 main quests, and most of them can be done in about 30 minutes to an hour 
 each, and some you can even skip by going to the place beforehand and talking to a specific person 
 giving you a 2+ hour leap into the storyline, which you never want to do just in case you might 
 miss something along the way. 
  
  This game, at some points, had me feel like I actually was part of this post-apocalyptic world 
 and that I was doing something for the greater good of the people that live in it. I also felt 
 some emotion along the game, at some parts, especially at the end, and when my canine companion, 
 Dogmeat was killed by a Super Mutant, it has that much of an emotional vibe to it. There are many 
 tense moments in this game, making it seem fresh and new every time you play through. This game 
 has a lot of replay value in it because of the different skills you choose and how you act at the 
 end that will give many endings to the game. It is also very addicting so make sure you have plenty 
 of free time to play it because you won't want to stop. I created about 4 characters because of 
 how fun the Vault level is at the beginning, and also the need to try out new skills. 2 were evil 
 and 2 were good, and I stuck with one of the good ones and I finished the game, and I hope to make 
 an evil character and finish the game with him or her.
  
  I only encountered a few flaws in this game from the usual glitching NPCs, to the stuck in corners 
 and rocks, etc. Another is that the highest level you can go to is 20, but that will soon be raised 
 to 30 after the new DLC comes. But the biggest flaw that left me disappointed was at the end after 
 you beat the game you can't use that character from there on end, but instead going back to a saved 
 file, or creating a new character. 
  
  Fallout 3 is a game you'll want to play literally forever because of the amazing World, and all 
 of the collectibles, weapons, and items. While there are a few minor flaws, this game still keeps 
 a high score because of the impact it had on me that just simply wouldn't let me go from its amazing 
 grasp. This is a game that will always be recognized as a simple masterpiece and much more. It 
 is quite an unique experience. A perfect 10 out of 10.
  
  -horrorboy 
::::::

::::::
UserName: digiuser2
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 18, 2009 1:22 pm PT
Review:  I'll break it down in a list.
  
  Pros:
  
  - Huge!
  - Cinematic
  - Consumes you
  - Very long play time
  - Good achievements
  - Liam Neeson's voice is perfect for a father's
 
  - The last game you'll need
  - Quick humor makes you laugh but doesn't ruin the atmosphere
  - V. a. t. s. is brutal and satisfying, 
 nothing like blowing your childhood bully to a million brilliant pieces
  - Fantastic old-timey and patriotic music
  - Game is accommodating to both male and female characters, 
 better to play one of each and get both sides of the spectrum
  - Character creation is detailed, beard list is huge
  - City full of children who act like adults
 
  - Repair system works perfectly
  -Conversation is useful but not overpowered
  
  Cons
  
  - Glitches
  - Not the greatest graphics
  - Quicksave still makes it easy to exploit much 
 like oblivion
  - Very over-exposed, better to travel at night because the sun blinds you (especially at sunrise 
 and sunset)
  - Radiation is very easily avoidable
  - If you have a scavengers instincts you'll be richer than Bill Gates after an hour, it destroys 
 the realism
  - Even if you have a lot of good stuff to sell no one can buy it because they have no money
  
 - V. a. t. s. breaks combat flow a bit
  - Non-V. a. t. s. combat is stiff and unfair
  - If you add a beard you can only downgrade to a smaller beard, not remove it completely
  - Barter 
 skills is useless 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Future_Supra
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 18, 2009 11:55 am PT
Review:  Alright Fallout 3 let me start by saying it does not compare to Oblivion. If your a fan of Oblivion 
 you may or may not like this game. It focuses more on survival where food and weapons are in low 
 supply and there are no major shops where you can buy everything in this game. You are always looking 
 for food and ammo; ammo is of very low supply. A note for all you FPS junkies like myself this 
 is in no way like COD4 or Halo3 it is not really a FPS don't buy it if you think you want a hardcore 
 FPS survival game because you will be disappointed.
  
  Pros:
  -Story is interesting
  -You really feel like you are trying to survive
  -Health and Radiation system is nice
  -Lots 
 of choices in game that influence the story and environment
  -VATS can be used for some killer headshots
  -Variety of Enemies to go up against
  -Custom 
 built guns are cool
  -Hacking is fun for the first 5 times you do it
  -Pip boy is kinda neat
  
  Cons:
  -Story is very short
  -VATS takes away from it being a 
 FPS
  -Not many Guns to choose from some are even look the same but are named differently
  -Environment is very bland and the map is not a open world many places within the city you must 
 travel through annoying subways to reach
  -Subways are a pain just dark bland tunnels full of Ghouls
  -Environment is very depressing mostly 
 made up of just endless wasteland
  -Traveling from one place to another can take a lot of time if you havent already been there
 
  -Custom guns can only be built by using a schematic and getting certain parts
  -Not many side quests and some are hard to find
  -Set as if World War 3 had happened in the 50's 
 so all stuff in game looks like 50's from buildings, to towns, items placed in the environment, 
 all computers look like the first computers ever made, and the music is horrible.
  -Pip Boy looks again like a 50's computer
  
  VATS: is a targeting system used to target enemys 
 body parts in game you tap RB and it brings up the system the enemy goes green and time stops you 
 then select the body part you want to shoot at and it gives you your chance of hitting it as a 
 percent then it goes back into real time and your character starts shooting at that body part.
 
  
  50's Confusion: the game is set so it looks like WW3 happened in the 50's all the ruined houses 
 look like there from the 50's the radio stations play music from the 50's, computers are green 
 blank screens with text, clothing from the past looks like 50's suits. This is no modern day post 
 fallout world. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: secretcheese
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 17, 2009 8:01 pm PT
Review:  Fallout 3 is an awsome and amazing game. I would recommend it to anyone who likes RPG's and guns. 
 It's great! However... It does have a few problems. For instance, I didn't like the fact that the 
 level cap is 20. You can't level up past 20, however, it does take a lot to get to level 20.
  Other than that, the problems are small. On my main profile, Walter, the man you sell scrap metal 
 to in Megaton, just disappeared. That's the only glitch that has happened to me so far but I have 
 heard of a worse glitch and that they usually start happening after 50 hours of game play.
  Besides those problems, the game is pretty awsome. the map is as big as it was on The Elder Scrolls 
 IV: Oblivion. The creatures are a little freaky, mainly the cenotuars and feral ghouls. Shooting 
 with V. A. T. S. is awsome and the new level up system is great. You also have perks that grant you 
 certain things when you level up that you can choose from. They do things from adding points to 
 skills, to adding damage, fire, and rad resistance. The main storyline is pretty cool and long. 
 There are plenty of fun side quests. Instead of dollars, you use bottle caps for money.
  The weapons are awsome. They go from rolling pins to combat knifes. From pistols to machine guns 
 to shotguns. frag grenades and mines to rocket launchers and missles to mini nukes. You can even 
 create your own weapons using random equipment, schematics, and a decent repair skill. You can 
 create from dart guns to railway rifles. from bottle cap mines to nuka grenades. And finally a 
 Rock-It Launcher that shoots anything you pick up.
  You can collect bobbleheads that add points to your skills. They either add 10 points to your normal 
 skills or 1 point to your S. P. E. C. I. A. L. skills. S. P. E. C. I. A. L. skills are you Strength, Perception, 
 Endurance, Charisma, Inteligence, Agility, and Luck. They all greatly affect you in some way.
 
  You can only repair you weapons and armor with another set of that armor or another of that weapon. 
 The higher your repair skills, the better condition you can make the weapon. Makes sense right? 
 The higher your repair the condition of the guns you create will be. The lockpicking is much different 
 than it was in Oblivion. You use bobby pins so it's more realistic. You can also hack into computers 
 if your science is high enough.
  So the game has plenty of things to do in it. It's full of fun and and will have you playing for 
 hours at a time. I would recommend it to anyone.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Warrior427
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 17, 2009 12:58 pm PT
Review:  This game really surprised better then I would have ever imagined. The scope is incredible the 
 capital wasteland is huge and there are alot of locations and areas to explore. Thats one of the 
 best parts you can explore this huge map at your own pace and do the quest when ever you want. 
 So if you just want to go out and kill some creatures and level you can or if you want to move 
 through the main story you can. The game does a good job of combining RPG with first person shooter 
 action adventure game. I could tell right when I played the game it was going to be fun. I really 
 enjoy games that let you choose your own path like KOTOR. There are so many possibilities and things 
 you can do. The content in this game can sometimes be overwhelming the developers really took there 
 time with it because the mood is like perfect everything is so unique. It actually makes you feel 
 like your roaming around in a apocaliptic waste land surronded by enemies. Really the only complaint 
 I have about the game is that at times it feels like there are to many load screens but this isnt 
 a real big problem. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: whitesoxfan8907
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 16, 2009 9:26 pm PT
Review:  I have been a huge fan of the Elder Scrolls games, Morrowind being my favorite, and Bethesda keeps 
 delivering with every release they have. Fallout 3 follows some of the same elements that were 
 present in Oblivion and the level system and combat are very similar. The game world is huge, but 
 there is the quick travel option present again, which is a big plus for some gamers that don't 
 like traveling long distances on foot. One huge improvement from Oblivion is the elimination of 
 leveled loot. One thing that does disappoint me about this game is that the level cap is 20. News 
 has come out that it will be raised to 30 with an upcoming DLC release in March, but I didn't really 
 understand what the developers were thinking when they set that in the first place. The world of 
 Fallout has much to offer for people who aren't fans of the Elder Scrolls as well. The first person 
 shooter element lends itself to many fans. I highly recommend this game for anyone who wishes to 
 experience one of the greatest video game adventures ever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jbshook
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 17, 2009 9:57 am PT
Review:  I played Oblivion and thought it was an A caliber game. When I learned that Fallout 3 was produced 
 by the same company that made Oblivion I had to give the game a try and it sure doesn't disappoint. 
 The game is great from beginning to end with only a few minor flaws.
  
  What I like best about the game is the storyline. An apocalyptic event that changes the world would 
 be great on its own, but the setting is Washington D. C. one of my favorite places! You can visit 
 these war torn buildings and explore every one! Developers set the mood just right, and capture 
 in the graphics a setting of sadness and destruction. However, your character can choose to make 
 a difference, and help humanity recover from its plight... or not. The characters in the game are 
 well-done and believable.
  
  The battle system is great! V. A. T. S is truly an innovative feature that I've never seen in another 
 game. It's done quiet well, and the strategy of hitting body parts to cripple is just plain fun. 
 The variety of weapons and armor to use is exciting. I love being able to pick up my enemies weapons 
 and armor to repair my own. This game allows you to pick-up most everything you come across.
  
  Missions are well done, and the rewards for completing them are worthwhile. I love the leveling 
 up and the perks. The game offers so much variety in this regard it will make you want to play 
 the game more than once. Next time I may want to have my lock pick skill up to 100!
  
  The flaws in this game are minor. The biggest complaint is that I could only get to level 20! What's 
 up with that? I like to explore most everything, and when I only adventured half of the game I 
 couldn't level up anymore. Why stop at level 20? Maybe it is to keep the game more challenging, 
 but if I search out everything there needs to be more of an incentive to keep going. I decided 
 to just follow the main quest after maxing out my levels. Also, the third person view is absolutely 
 ridiculous. It is hard to fight any enemy using this view, and it makes your character appear to 
 moonwalk over everything. Last, the word font in this game is so tiny I had to strain to see my 
 status on the Pip Boy. Why do the words have to be so small? There needs to be some way to enlarge 
 the words.
  
  The game is great overall and worth playing! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chaosisover
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 16, 2009 6:42 pm PT
Review:  OK! I tried writing a review for this game 2 previous times and got interrupted so If you don't 
 anything about this game, I suggest looking on Fallout 3 Wiki. I also cannot compare this to any 
 previous Fallout game because this is the first one I played, now on to the review!
  
  Let me start with the flaws, well there are none really because a big chunk of the glitches and 
 bugs were fixed in an update and the game has a slow start. After leveling up a bit and getting 
 some good items, this game will be great, so I suggest putting the game on very easy (for the first 
 playthrough) until about level 10, then choose what you would normally play on. Also combat kinda 
 sucks outside of V. A. T. S.
  
  Fallout 3 has a huge open world to explore and tons of quest between Main (story) , Side (achievement) , 
 or Unmarked (just for rewards) , you can easily get over 60 hours of gameplay on this game. The quest 
 are fun and don't feel like a chore to do. One of my favorite parts of the game is getting NPC 
 companions like Charon who is a ghoul who you can get a contract for from the underworld, Dogmeat 
 who is well.... a dog who follows you, aids you in battle, and finds ammo for you, and my favorite 
 FAWKES! Fawkes is found in Vault 87 by the G. E. C. K. and is the only Super Mutant who isn't hostile 
 and the only time I've seen him die was against a Super Mutant Behemoth. Another thing I love is 
 the amazing and insane weapons. The Rock-IT-Launcher will shoot anything from useless junk to teddy 
 bears at people, The Alien Blaster found in a spaceship, also possibly the best weapon in the game, 
 shoots blue rays that instantly kills almost anything, Fat Man which shoots a Mini Nuke, and the 
 most insane weapon since the B. F. G. in Doom, The Experimental Mirv. The Mirv shoots EIGHT F-ING 
 MINI NUKES AT ONCE!
  
  Some final notes, if you don't know what platform to get this on well the PC version is the best 
 if your PC can run it since it has the exclusive G. E. C. K. which lets you edit the entire game and 
 has cheats to make the game more fun, and if that wasn't enough the PC version also has achievements 
 because it is a Game for Windows. The 360 [and PC] version has DLC that the PS3 won't be getting 
 so PC 360 PS3. I HIGHLY RECOMMEND BUYING THIS GAME TO ALL RPG/SHOOTER/ADVENTURE FANS!
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: petey3
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 16, 2009 1:58 pm PT
Review:  Imagine walking through a desolate wasteland stuggling to find something and you dont even know 
 where to begin. Fallout 3 puts you in such a predictament. From the moment fallout begin you take 
 note of the customization and the rpg elements. Dress and creating your character are just the 
 minor elements of the genre. Every decision you make lets people know the type of person you are, 
 whether good or evil. Another exceptional addition is the various status effects. everytime you 
 take damage a certain part of your body ( head, arms, legs) you feel the side effects. for instance, 
 if you damage your head you will begin to concus and the screen will blurr plus accuracy is reduced. 
 So it takes advantage of survival techniques. There are so many things to do in fallout and it 
 will take forever to explain them all. However i will strongly recommend this game to anyone who 
 is a fan of rpgs or fps's. 
  
  The only setback i have in the game (which really isnt that important) are the achievements. most 
 of them are completing certain quests and accomplishing a certain ammount of tasks. For me i think 
 fun achievements ( like physoctic prankster) make the game a little more fun. but this isn't even 
 a big deal. trust me this is a must have in your collection 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Maagi
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 16, 2009 1:32 am PT
Review:  Long overdue, it finally came. People had been waiting for a new Fallout game to continue the saga 
 for a decade or so. Altough people were very worried if the new gamesystem would be inferiour to 
 the older one, I'd say it works just as good, if not even better, so the worrying should be over.
 
  
  It's hard to pick a spot where to begin about Fallout 3. It could be the great looking graphics. 
 They're not The Greatest, but look very good. The wasteland doesn't offer lush enviroments filled 
 with colours, but you can see far away and see some bigger structures in the horizon. However, 
 sadly, when you trek a bit closer, some objects begin to materialize a bit too close, so sometimes 
 stuff begins to pop in view when you're about to turn away, etc. Thankfully that seemed to be just 
 a minor inconvienience to me.
  
  For a shooting game, I'd call Fallout's targeting and aiming a bit stiff. It doesn't work very 
 fluently to me, compared to full fledged shooters. But, V. A. T. S pretty much evens it out, if not 
 make it to Fallout's benefit. The system works great, altough it would have been nice to be called 
 something else than Sitting Duck when using VATS, but I suppose that's the price you pay. Game's 
 physics make the VATS-deaths look great for the most parts, altough sometimes it seemed too ridiculous 
 for a head to get torn off from a single bullet from a rifle.
  
  As usual in Fallout games, there's a big set of skills and related stuff available, spiced with 
 perks to make you better in certains ways. I chose to be a do-gooder, who is semi-genious, hacking, 
 picking locks and talking himself out and in of trouble. Of course, some shooting had to be done, 
 but quite many situations got solved by just talking and tricking people out of it, and that's 
 one of Fallout's strengths really; diversity. Situations and people react quite differently depending 
 on what you've done and thus there is value for a good repeat or two of the whole game. I can hardly 
 wait to be a strong, stupid yet gruesomely evil character, instead of this Hero of the Wastelands 
 I played.
  
  While the main campaign may not hold you in it's grip more than 10'ish hours or so, I ended up 
 clocking about 58 hours of playtime. If it wasn't obvious already, Washington is huge in the game. 
 And it's not just huge, but there's a lot of places to stick your head in to and I didn't even 
 visit'em all in those 58 hours of mine (and mind you, I used Fast Travel always when beneficial) , 
 so Fallout 3 could be one of the biggest places in a roleplaying game lately (bar maybe some japanese 
 RPG's) . Lot of stuff to do and since many people have a lot to say in game, you often end up checking 
 out if this and that guy has a quest to give or something else. Might even just be a hilarious 
 character, like AntAgonizer and The Mechanist and their dispute in the town.
  
  In the end, I don't find anything majorly wrong in Fallout 3. Of course there's always SOMETHING 
 to bicker about, but gladly they are seemingly small issues in the game, and miraculously for Fallout's, 
 I didn't personally encounter any major bugs.
  And in the end, you have a very long (if you so choose) game in your hands, with a lot of exploring, 
 scheming, shooting and finding to do, not to mention some of the most weirdest and hilarious characters 
 in a while.
  
  In a year filled with good games (especially in the late autumn) , Fallout 3 was one of the best 
 for me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Owned3
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 25, 2009 8:07 pm PT
Review:  The Game is amazing the beginning is boring but once you get out of the vault it's really fun from 
 blowing up megaton, slaying deathclaws and firing mini nukes at gun emplacements this gun will 
 have you occupied for many hours... I can go into very deep detail of this and make many paragraphs 
 but i'll keep it down to a few paragraphs. There is any gun you can think of from a 10mm pistol 
 to a alien blaster, flamethrowers, miniguns, a chainsaw called the ripper and many others in fact 
 there is well over 100 guns.
  
  There is easily over 100s of locations to keep you occupied for alot of hours. There is the Karma 
 system which will make you good, bad, neutral and I recently found out you can be very bad. There 
 is many options to customize your character perks and skills. There several stuff like big guns, 
 small guns, melee, energy weapons, repair, barter, lockpick and a few more there's also your S. P. E. C. I. A. L 
 where you pick skills that will change your character so there is deep character customization.
 
  
  There is alot of perks to choose from some that simply enhance a skill to ones that allow you to 
 kill people in their sleep, eat corpses and cut off peoples fingers and sell them for caps. Altough 
 the graphics could've been better it more then makes up for it with over 20 hours of gameplay. 
 You actually have to survive you must conserve your ammo, know when to use this gun or this gun 
 or just sneak by. Caps don't come easily and ammo isn't plentiful and even with 100s of shots on 
 a rifle it'll go quickly.
  
  The game has a simple story at first but it runs deeper then it seems at first. At first it seems 
 simple find your daddy but then he starts rambling on about project purification (or something 
 like that) it's the purification of the wasteland waters which thrust's you into the inevitible 
 combat between the Brotherhood of steel and the enclave. 
  
  Unfortunately this game is full of glitches and as the gamespot review said combat does feel mildly 
 choppy and there is no online play so if you like miltiplayer it isn't a game for you. Also you 
 can't continue the game after you finish it until the DLC Broken steel comes out which is in a 
 few months (This review was written on January 25 at 11:06
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: nba1day722
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 15, 2009 4:18 pm PT
Review:  Im a solid fan of RPG games, from Fable to Mass Effect, however fallout 3 starts 2 really show 
 me what an RPG game can look like when it is molded beautifully. (Dont get me wrong Mass Effect 
 and Fable are extraordinary games) .From the first 30sec of the game you are pushed in (or out 
 i should say) by having you pushed out of your mothers womb. Here is where you create the defaults 
 of your customized character. In the game you get to play segments of your characters life from 
 1 years old to 19 years old. Fallout 3 is a work of art from the graphics and visuals down to the 
 storyline. Although gun play is sometimes weak manually, a special mode called V. A. T. S allows you 
 to manually aim at a specific part of a targets body and automatically fire away. Imagine shooting 
 at a 30 foot tall giant supermutants head to see tons and gunks of blood splatered out (sorry a 
 little to graphic, and exaggerative.) Just make sure your shooting ability is average to awsome 
 so you can have a hire chance of hitting the target. The voice work in the game is pretty good 
 although it is a little upsetting that your character barely says a word in the game. The only 
 down looks of this game is that it gets annnoying to chronically walk miles through the game, although 
 you can jump from one location to another you can only do it when you explored that area. And make 
 sure 2 clear out enemies bcuz you cannot fast travel with them around. However sometimes it is 
 really worth it to go exploring. The amazing visuals include the lincoln memorial. AND IT IS EVEN 
 WAR TORN!!... pretty cool. Even with the unforgettable visuals it temps you to forget them considering 
 the fact the game crashes. It didnt become an issue for me, however if your a little glued to the 
 game and then you just see a still screen you might just want to LAUNCH YOU CONTROLLER 80 BILLION 
 FEET ACROSS THE WORLD.!!!!....... but when you turn the game back on you will no doubt see that 
 it was worth your patience. I dont want to get into the story of the game. You should see for yourself. 
 This game is worth it hands down and if u thinking on a game 2 purchase. Fallout 3 will no doubt 
 please you in just about every way possible. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lvod20
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 15, 2009 3:23 pm PT
Review:  Fallout 3 stays true to the fallout series feel.
  Fallout 3 is highly addictive and you might just find yourself playing
  this game into the wee 
 hours or 70 or more hours, through replays.
  Though they could worked out some errors its still a top notch gut spaltering gory fun feeled game 
 that you might get highly addicted and have withdrawl from not playing it, worth a look or a buy 
 so dont pass up this game or youll end up regretting it.
  Game has small issues but its easily ignored, graphics are to die for, and the gameplay and story 
 is top notch, violance is over the top, id give this game a 10 out 10.
  other games id recommand are oblivion, Left 4 Dead, Bioshock, Dead Space, perfect dark, fable and fable 
 2 and c&c TS and bloodrayne and devil series.
  Hopefully the addons hold alot of goodies when they come out in the next 3 mo. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mrcwood
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 15, 2009 2:14 pm PT
Review:  I am a big fan of these makers as i reali like oblivion so i knew i was gunna like this game but 
 i don't just like it i'm addicted too it!
  
  Story is reali cool as u r starting off as a baby, sounds weird i no but its different lol keeps 
 u gripped as u grow up in age (its skips alots of years lol) , But ur like living inside an under 
 ground vault which is protection for ppl from radiation and stuff on the outside world cos a unclear 
 war has gone on which has destoryed the world lol basicly. So when ur 18 ur dad leaves for some 
 reason u find out later in the game so u have to break out too and find him then u pretty much 
 has the world to explore.
  
  i like how their is more too the game then meets the eye but doesnt show it off right away, but 
 then again that can turn ppl off the game but u shouldn't cos its only a slow starter cos its warming 
 u up! 4 good reason cos this game gets very hard and very unpredicable as it can get! you have 
 the freedom of the wastelands! as the world is completely destroyed buy neclear war so u can do 
 want u want reali kill anything that moves such as werid mutants and beasts, steal stuff, do the 
 main quest lol and blow up an atom bombs that destorys scrap city (a real side quest) but its hard 
 but fun and ur character is completely uniqne like in oblivion so have FUN!
  
  so its a thumps up from me but i should say give it a chance cos its a slow game to get goin and 
 into for like action and stuff so just be clam cos it will come :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mattsn22
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 16, 2009 10:10 am PT
Review:  Growing up in a bunker is not great. Rare space, no sunlight and a bunch of strange people. However, 
 thats what the first minutes of the game will consist of. While you may create your individual 
 character in Fallout 3 and therfore select your sex, name, appearance, attributes, skills and first 
 classes this game definitely feels different somehow as an RPG. The first steps in your life start 
 during a birth sequence followed by first baby steps and a birthday party with more or less musty 
 peers. 
  
  Anyways, life is serious and so the seriousness of life begins in Fallout 3:
  
  Eventually your father escapes from the bunker, named Vault101, so that you are more or less 
 forced to follow him as people try to kill you as well. Thus you try to find your dad who is somewhere 
 in the vast wasteland. As a good son and also forced according to a number of events inside the 
 bunker you leave the underground shelter, too. Admittedly its dangerous outside. A nuclear 
 war has devastated the world, mutants roam the countryside and a few survivors try to survive and 
 accommodate themselves with the circumstances.
  
  The search for your father leads you through bizarre and dangerous environments: the ruins of a 
 city subway tunnel, which are contaminated with mutants, abandoned bunkers and outdoor environments 
 with nasty cattle. Even an aircraft carrier is rebuilt. The story takes its time until it becomes 
 interesting. But then you may do many great quests which are solvable in many ways.
  
  To that, there is always something new to discover. However, there are many possibilities that 
 you will do something else before you proceed in doing the main quests. It is simply curiosity, 
 which lead the player into other plot lines. 
  
  This is really great because the real story is damn tight as it takes about 12 to15 hours to finish. 
 Fortunately there are lots of side quests and the exploration of the world is good, as well as 
 the variety of playing styles, the opening character system and the many choices. Thus the game 
 has a high replay value as you wont do, see or try everything in just one playthrough.
 
  
  Fallout 3 is in fact an open world game, but Bethesda was clever enough, to keep the player on 
 the right track. Firstly with the help of the quests, on the other by the level design. And on 
 the third through innumerable information available during the journey through the game world provided 
 by its inhabitants. 
  
  However, there are some shortcomings in Fallout 3 you will quickly discover such as the inconvenient 
 inventory which takes too much time as well especially when it comes to choose weapon (which actually 
 has some ammunition) . What a pity as there is such a plethora of more or less useful objects up 
 to a number of weapons, armor and ammunition. Anyways, basically this is the only big negative 
 point to mention.
  
  The menu system itself is based on the look of its predecessors and offers in rudimentary form, 
 map, inventory, character values, and quest log notes. Compass and map markers provide guidance. 
 The clever level design allows you to orientate through your quests without major problems. If 
 you ever went through underground tunnels you may know that it isnt quite simple finding 
 the right way.
  
  Incidentally, there are lots of weapons. Thats good as you encounter various opponents you 
 have to kill. Mutant dogs, mole rats, giant scorpions, mutants, looters, mercenaries, and of course 
 the members of the various factions. You can fight with your gun, use a knife or a rifle to destroy 
 opponents. However, you will be out of ammo very very often. Thats quite funny as you have 
 many weapons you cant use then. An interesting feature of the game is that weapons become 
 unusable after using them for a long time though repairing them is possible, either by yourself 
 or a dealer. 
  
  One of the beast features of Fallout 3 is definetely the battle system. Fallout 3 provides a shooter 
 with RPG-control calculation of hits and an action points-based system for specific parts of the 
 body at the enemy. Sounds confusing, and sure it is at the beginning. Especially for players who 
 want to play the game as a shooter. But its NOT a shooter.
  
  Sure, the game will be like a shooter somehow either from ego-driven or shoulder perspective. If 
 it is aimed at an opponent, your character values are taken into account and determine, in essence, 
 if you hurt the enemy or not. This is rather vague. The VATS system is really great. It aims at 
 the enemy while the game is paused so that you may select certain parts of the body of your opponent 
 with the anticipated strike chance appears. 
  
  This makes sense because you can do critical hits, which may lead to crippling your opponent and 
 therefore to slow down or even disarm him by firing shots into the arms. Particularly in battles 
 against several opponents like super mutant beasts the system shines and rewards you with massive 
 hits. Anyway, it takes some time getting used to it, but after a short period of time its 
 very helpful. 
  
  The character system is performed flawlessly. Nine attributes, which in fact only play a minor 
 role. Much more important are the skills and perks. The skills are appropriate oriented and allow 
 specialization. There are tons of possibilities, depending on the whim of the player and thus create 
 a high replay value.
  
  The exterior landscapes are a feast for the eyes. Sure, there are more realistic-looking games. 
 But only a few that look more authentic. The landscapes and the ruins of cities are utterly amazing. 
 
  
  There are tons of dialogues which are really great. To that the soundtrack is terrific.
  
  
 Overall Fallout 3 is a great RPG and you may consider it an Oblvion with guns. However, 
 it is in fact a great game in its own right and offers one of the best tutorials I have 
 ever seen in a game. Unfortunately, it has some minor flaws such as the awkward inventory. But 
 all in all it is quite rightly one of the best RPGs of 2008. In addition it delivers a high replay 
 value and much freedom for how to proceed and even at which point of time.
  
  
  + 
  
  huge world 
  excellent introduction 
  many good quests 
  great character development 
  
 very good artdesign 
  atmospheric caves and catacombs 
  impressive architecture 
  atmospheric day / night shift 
  playing time: 30 hours plus X 
  build weapons 
  many items 
 
  three levels of difficulty
  
  
  -
  weak AI combat behavior
  Mimic & animations only average
  somewhat unwieldy inventory system
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: brandonnerdratt
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 14, 2009 9:57 pm PT
Review:  Ok 1998 fallout 2 i play it you know and then wait for fallout 3. never comes. then more that 10 
 years later it happens. I get the best game of 2008. 
  
  You start out in a vault.. dueee.... vault 101 this time. you father leaves. you fallow then you 
 are introduced into one of the most best greatest awesomeness open world ever. This game with all 
 of the hype behind it compleatly delivers. you can explore 20 plus towns 60 plus locations take 
 an elevator up the Washington monument kill super mutants, recruit super mutants do over 10 quests, 
 be the good guy or the bad guy. save the world or don't. blow up a nuke or don't. 40 hrs of play 
 time defenatly 100 possibly worth 60 dollars you bet! Fallout 3 has some great features like V. A. T. S., 
 creating your own weapons, and you can recruit people. oh man i will still play this game in 20 
 years. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrfidget
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 14, 2009 8:54 pm PT
Review:  Just like the original Fable, Fallout 3 is an RPG that is accessible to members of the population 
 who don't normally like RPG's. But, really, the game is pretty light on the stat-building RPG elements 
 and focuses much more on shooting action and exploration.
  Something you rarely see is a game that starts at your character's birth. That's how Fallout 3 
 starts. This is where you create your character. The initial incident of the plot happens at age 
 17, you wake up to discover that your father has left Vault 101, which is where you've spent you're 
 entire life. The goal of the game is to find your father, somewhere in post-apocalyptic D. C. The 
 landscape in which your character is set free is huge, and its not like Far Cry 2 where half of 
 the land is inaccessible. 200 years after the Nuclear War, citizens are trying to rebuild civilization 
 and are developing technology. There are many radiated descendants of wildlife, such as the super-deadly 
 Yao Gaui, which used to be black bears; or Mirelurks, which used to be crabs, or sharks, or lobsters, 
 but you can't really tell. You also meet human enemies such as soldiers, raiders, or mercenaries, 
 who are also just as deadly. You'll meet with tons of different characters who may ask you for 
 different favors, and when speaking with characters you get dialogue choices from three different 
 karma ranges: evil, neutral, and good. But having your karma changed depending on your actions 
 and dialogue doesn't have any real effect on the story or game.
  Whenever you level up, you get a chance to raise your skill points in various fields, such as science 
 or small guns, or large guns, or speech or energy weapons etc... And you also get to choose one 
 perk. Perks can do anything from increase effectiveness against women in combat, give you extra 
 dialogue choices when talking to certain people, or increasing your action points. Action points 
 are used to activate VATS, which stands for Vault-Tec Advanced Targeting System. You use VATS to 
 target specific body parts on enemies in a cinematic perspective. The whole VATS things is excellent, 
 and is very, very cool.
  The whole appeal of the game is bound to be enjoyed by everybody , especially any fan of the previous 
 Fallout games. You'll hear licensed music from the mid-twentieth century, and often see the series 
 mascot, Vault Boy.
  I recommend buying Fallout 3. Its an outstanding cinematic and artistic achievement in video games. 
 Bethesda has proved that no matter what they do with a game, they do it good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RESI_EVILZERO
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 21, 2009 5:43 am PT
Review:  Fallout 3 is set in the year 2277, 36 years after the game fallout 2 and 200 years after the war 
 called the Great War that put the world into a post apocalyptic wasteland. You are a character 
 from a vault called vault 101 known as a vault dweller. The vaults where built for the purpose 
 of sheltering the earths inhabitants from the nuclear destruction caused in the Great War. The 
 game fallout 3 starts with your character being born firstly you create your characters face at 
 this point then suddenly the game fast forward's to your character being one year of age. The action 
 skips on forwards to your character being ten years of age on his/her birthday where you interact 
 with a several non-playable characters. The action again fast forwards to your character being 
 sixteen where you sit a test called the G. O. A. T. (Generalized Occupational aptitude test) . After 
 the test you are taken further to a further few years to the age of nineteen. At this age you are 
 woken up by a friend called Amata who tells you that your dad has left the vault so your character 
 must leave the vault as well so you may find the characters dad. When you finally emerge from the 
 vault you find your self in the destroyed world and eventually find out you are in the ruins of 
 Washington D. C. with Maryland and Virginia in the surrounding area. 
  
  As your character wanders the area known as the wasteland in post apocalyptic Washington D. C you 
 find a sign saying Megaton with a arrow pointing. As you follow the arrow you find another sign 
 with the same thing on it. Here you meet other NPC characters with some missions including one 
 where you have to decide to destroy the town with a bomb or deactivate the bomb and also a mission 
 where you have to complete to get directed onto the next part of the main story line. After that 
 you may do what ever you want. The game world is very big and has lots of different enemies and 
 towns and lots and lots of items and weapons.
  
  The enemies vary from different mutated animals, like a giant radscorpion which as you can guess 
 is a giant scorpion and mirelurks which are the mutated crabs to humans like raiders and slavers. 
 One of the toughest enemies are the super mutants they are big scary and green. The hardest enemy 
 in the game world is the death claw which is thought to be a mutation of some sort of reptile with 
 their razor sharp claws and high stamina these enemies are quite successful in the game they fit 
 in due to the radiation affects after a nuclear war.
  
  The weapons in the game have surprisingly been preserved and are useable after 200 years after 
 a nuclear war. The include things such as a basic hunting rifle and assault rifles since the game 
 is set in the year 2277 on the way to that year there have been energy weapons made like the laser 
 pistol and rifle and the plasma pistol and rifle other weapons include the combat shotgun, sawn 
 off shotgun. The bigger weapons are missile launchers, miniguns and the most powerful weapon the, 
 fat man, which is a mini nuke launcher the experimental MIRV is a special version of the fat man 
 which does much more damage. You can create your own weapons using different items off the game 
 world.
  
  The game is almost real life in that you can pick up random junk like tin cans and empty bottles 
 and the like you can also use random junk as ammo for the creatable weapon the 'rock it' launcher 
 which I think is very successful because there's more junk lying about the wasteland than there 
 is ammo for your guns.
  
  The device on your characters wrist helps keep you in check of your health and what items you have 
 in your inventory. This is effective because you can see how your body is doing damage wise and 
 see what kind of items you are carrying and telling you how you can carry the device is called 
 a pip boy which has a built in Geiger counter to tell when you are in irradiated areas. Too much 
 radiation and you can die.
  
  I think the game has been very successful. The same engine used for oblivion in my opinion has 
 improved fallout through the series there is so much more you can do and more free will to move 
 about un like the previous games where you have turn based fights with the enemy in fallout 3. 
 You can freely move about I prefer the first person view to the previous games so far fallout 3 
 has been my favourite fallout out of the series.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: arkaydon2
Rating: 4.5
Date: Jan 14, 2009 6:03 am PT
Review:  Here we go! (again, because my last review about this game was deleted because I said so many "kind" 
 words to emphasise my point. I didn't know there would be baby reading or those republican democrats 
 like Frank Zappa would expose in his many many songs lol!)
  
  Let's get to the point:
  
  the Good: 
  - The begining of the story is somewhat emotional, I can relate to that.
  - 
 Well, you kill lots of cockroaches and doesn't need to clean the shoes!
  - You can kill cockroaches with nuclear weapons! (I guess you are not the species which would survive 
 a big nuke huh!?)
  - Well you could say the game looks like a good game at first glance.
  
  and that covers it...
  
  The Bad:
  - TOO bla bla bla BORING (oh how I miss the curses...)
 
  - You walk seeing junkyards for hours and hours (for that I would just go outside my house, it's 
 a humble version of course)
  - The story takes too long to make amends and by then you'll loose any emotional bonding to whatever 
 has left of the good creatures over this strange clone looking world.
  - Nothing has or ignite or cause anything that comes close to human emotions ( I think this game 
 was by robots or to robots, that would explain a lot if you get my drift)
  - Even the dog looks like a ROBOT! And he really tries to help you but it's too dumb to do that, 
 poor rex...
  - Do you remember the living corpse looking like a zombie that you first met in the bar in megaton? 
 Well, the rest of the npcs are more dead than him!
  - What about the concept of RPG? Well in fallout 3 you have the VAST System, which just will get 
 you frustrated when you can't fulfill your intentions and just start shooting with the good and 
 old aiming method. Which is also lame.
  - So I guess it fails on both Shooter and RPG styles it tries to merge
  - Well, normally Rpgs, 
 which are long games, have lots of ways to entertain you to keep you tunned. Fallout 3 resumes 
 to this: Try to get good results on the dialogues to easy your situation (which even when you don't 
 have a good speech you can save before the dialogue and try again and again, because even with 
 the odds, it's a random system) , then you get to walk for five hours into the middle of a dead 
 scenario with dead music and some dead creatures trying to look alive, then you kill a lot of these 
 creatures, then you get itens, then you get heavy, then you come back to town, then you sell everything 
 you can and buy more similar itens, then you do everything again for 50 hours. And then you go 
 on a site about game reviews and give a 10 or a 9.5 to this procedure.
  
  Well to those who liked the game, you are blessed with brains that can become satisfied with, I 
 think, anything. But I sure was expecting a lot more noise against this supressing media which 
 support and covers lots of bad workers around the world. But then again, it's always our fault 
 for doing nothing more than a review which almost no one will probably read. We should unite the 
 people which are not satisfied with this kind of control in a small country forgotten somewhere. 
 One day I'll be there for sure waiting for you.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: adamh1981
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 12, 2009 9:53 pm PT
Review:  Let me cut to the chase..... this game is a work of art, its that simple.
  The sheer quality of the wastelands of Washington, the feeling of growing stronger as you level 
 up, some great perks, extreme bloody violence, tons of areas to explore, tons of unique weapons 
 to find, loads of different approaches to quests and how to react to NPCs and the overall freedom 
 this game imposes upon you will make this stunning game a very memorable experience.
  
  There is a very depressing and even a kind of horror feel to many aspects of the game...... but 
 all in a good way. Words really cant describe the vibe of the game..... its really something you 
 have to experience first hand.
  
  Aside from some irritating technical problems (mainly system crashes) Fallout 3 is not only the 
 real 2008 Game Of The Year 2008 but is also one of the very best games ever made. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NBAmaster33
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jan 12, 2009 8:23 pm PT
Review:  I've never played a Fallout game before, so I'm not exactly sure if the story carries on from those 
 games. This game is supposedly all about choice, and I have to admit, they do a great job in this 
 game on the character interaction. If you strip that and the neat VATS system, the overall game 
 design and combat just isn't that much fun to play [through] in my opinion. I feel that this game 
 is remarkably similar to Oblivion, and also Bioshock (except on the Earth's surface) . When you 
 really play Fallout 3, it starts to feel less like an RPG and more like an out-of-the-ordinary 
 first-person shooter like Bioshock that tries to have a unique atmosphere but ultimately ends up 
 being a mediocre game. Fallout 3 is no exception, but die-hard RPG fans that have played and loved 
 Oblivion will probably grow to love this, despite one I'm about to say.
  
  The first hour of the game is focused primarily on character and story development. Like Oblivion, 
 you can customize what your character will look like with a somewhat limited supply of options. 
 It's the year 2277. You and your father are residents of Vault 101, one of many constructs that 
 shelter some humans from the post-nuclear destruction. Your character will become older in the 
 course of about 20 minutes. You wake up as a nineteen-year-old, and you've been informed by your 
 best friend that your father somehow escaped the Vault and that the head of the Vault wants to 
 kill you. After leaving the Vault, you're thrust into the harsh wasteland of Washington, DC. 
 
  
  I've noticed that Fallout 3, Oblivion, Far Cry 2, Saints Row and GTA IV are essentially the same 
 game but in different settings. Think about it: All the games present you with the freedom to approach 
 whichever mission you want at any given time. But it's the atmosphere (or setting) that really 
 makes or breaks a game, and I feel strongly that that factor has a negative impact in this case. 
 Why would I want to explore a vast wasteland and the ruins of Washington, DC? The landscape isn't 
 terribly varied, and it's flat-out uninteresting to explore. There isn't any efficient way to travel 
 around besides walking, except for the teleporting option, which is neat, but the game requires 
 you to have already explored that specific area to teleport there.
  
  I'll move onto some things I don't hate about this game. Like I said before, the character interaction 
 is great. There are also different perks and skill levels to add additional dialogue sequences 
 with specific kinds of people. There are numerous ways to alter conversations and questions to 
 ask. Each character you meet in the game seems to have their own daily schedule, so you can follow 
 them around all day if you really want to. There are different items to buy from various vendors 
 in the cities you discover. This interaction between characters adds at least some depth to the 
 game, and it gave me an additional two or so hours of playing before I really got bored with it.
 
  
  Probably the worst part about this game for me is the combat. Throughout the game, you'll be fighting 
 raiders, large mutants, giant insects, scorpions, centaurs and some other weird enemies. The one 
 cool thing about the combat system that I mentioned before is the VATS system. This allows you 
 to freeze time and target specific body parts of your enemy, and there's a percentage on the body 
 part that hints whether or not your bullet will hit. The first gripe I have is the weapons. Despite 
 the fact that the game takes place in 2277, the people use guns straight from the 1940s. I don't 
 really understand the point of that. The weapons don't seem to do that much damage, even on the 
 easiest difficulty setting. Also, you rarely have any ammo at the beginning of the game. The game 
 gives you around ten pistol rounds to kill three mutants, and each one takes at least twenty hits 
 to kill. 
  
  The audiovisual presentation is severely lacking. The draw distance is quite impressive, but the 
 visuals themselves just aren't that great. A lot of the time textures will look extremely blurry, 
 even at long distances. The character models could've definitely been improved, and their animations 
 almost always look jerky. The game's frame rate can occasionally dip, and sometimes the game will 
 flat-out freeze to the point where I had to restard my console. The art design, again, just isn't 
 for me. I'm not a big fan on exploring wastelands or crumpling cities. So the visuals overall aren't 
 that impressive by today's standards. The audio is an improvement. The voice acting won't get any 
 better, but the gun effects sound dull and uninspired.
  
  The game's story mode will take you no more than a couple days' worth of steady progression, without 
 doing the side missions. I could've actually liked Fallout 3 if it didn't remind me of Bioshock's 
 nature of being very odd. The story in the game doesn't really pick up that much, and half the 
 time I didn't know nor care about what was going on. The combat system is more frustrating than 
 fun, the enemies are weird, but the dialogue sequences are great. The visuals are pretty poor, 
 though. Fallout 3 feels like an unpolished game that doesn't feel like an RPG after awhile. I guess 
 it just boils down to personal taste in atmosphere, but I'd definitely stick with Oblivion if you 
 want an enjoyable RPG game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sparowprime
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 12, 2009 6:10 pm PT
Review:  Fallout 3
  
  
  (As the end credits to the game roll, I give a standing ovation and applaud a job well done) . This 
 game was amazing! It's not often that I'm actually given the privilege to say that about a game, 
 this was truly a work of art. And just like it's been said so many times before by the people who 
 know, this not just oblivion with guns! While the similarities cannot be denied, they act as only 
 a base formula for the build of the game; sort of it's roots. But from those roots, it spans out 
 into a much more enjoyable experience. 
  
  
  
  The game starts with a tutorial that never breaks character, and is an intricate part of the story 
 as it begins to unfold; it doesn't even feel like the sometimes-mundane initial character creation 
 of most games. It does a great job of teaching you the ropes continually moving the story along 
 to where it needs to be. There could be a lot more customization options for your character, but 
 I'm spoiled with years of playing WWE games. You do get the chance to change your hairstyle from 
 time to time like Fable, but as far as changing your appearance beyond thatwell, I'll let you 
 find out for yourself. By the time the opening act of this epic has finished, you feel prepared 
 to take on the wasteland that lies ahead, and the real game begins. 
  
  
  
  Experience is rationed out at just the right pace, keeping you from feeling like you're getting 
 too strong too fast, but at the same time doesn't make you feel like you will never get any stronger. 
 Certain conditions in combat, and various tasks and character interactions will gain you different 
 amounts of experience, which need to be distributed carefully. You honestly don't need every attribute 
 and ever perk in the game maxed out, the game won't even give you enough points to do so, which 
 was a bit of a disappointment for me very late into the game. Your base skills go up to 100, which 
 take points gained when you level up. Each level up gains you 18 points to add to your skill tree, 
 but be careful, as far as I can tell you only level up to 20, so by then if you haven't leveled 
 up a particular attribute, you won't get the chance. I say as far as I know because the meter that 
 tracks your increasing level stops at 20, but shows 21 further down the meter. At level 20 nothing 
 else gains you experience, but perhaps with future downloadable content, this will change. With 
 20 levels also come 20 perk sets, with a hand full of perks per set. Now you only get one perk 
 per level, so obviously you can't have 'em all, and they will have to be chosen wisely. Your game 
 play experience and story content may change depending on what perk you have activated.
  
  
  
  The overall game environment is enormous, sandbox really dose not do justice as a description 
 of this world. There are so many locations to discover on the map that you may not explore everything 
 on the first play through, even if you're trying to. There's danger over every hill, and possible 
 treasure in every old metal box. You can only carry so much in the beginning, so you have to decide 
 what stays and what goes. NPCs and enemies roam the wastes and interact with each other as if they 
 were users playing on some MMO. Combat is fast and furious and can happen in an instant. A one 
 on one skirmish can easily turn into a battle royal! There is a built in targeting system called 
 V. A. T. S. that allows you to freezer the action and zoom in on specific body parts, and get a % 
 estimate on how good a chance you have of hitting it. This system is governed by action points, 
 which drain with each shot in V. A. T. S., so no, you can't take every shot that way. This brings 
 a tactical feel to the fight, as you decide what is the best way to pick apart the enemy force 
 pressing down on you, and how best to get out of this hot mess you have gotten yourself into. Dialog 
 is well written and voiced, and in turn gives you some decent choices on what direction to move 
 the conversation. There tons of items to be bought and found throughout the game, and item creation 
 is a blast! Be careful with enhancement items though, you can get addicted, no seriously, you can. 
 You also have an option to repair weapons and items vs. buying new ones, depending on your skill 
 in this department. You will find yourself sidetracked quite often, but the main story quest moves 
 along smoothly, with out becoming boring or confusing. You always know what you have to do next 
 to complete the story, but it's a matter of how you wish to approach that goal, or if that's even 
 the adventure you want to undertake at the moment. This game doesn't last forever, but you get 
 the felling that it could as you immerse yourself in the narrative and become your avatar, and 
 really with the right content via X-BOX Live, it could. 
  
  
  
  Ok, so you knew it was coming, the cons. While this game is one of my favorite of all times, it's 
 not perfect. There are a few collision detection issues here and there, and your animations could 
 have been a bit smoother. There should have been a wider variety of gear to wear as well as the 
 ability to mix and match tops, bottoms, hats, etc., likes it's older brother Oblivion. And yeah 
 the instant transmission is cool, but it would have been nice to have some kind of actual transportation 
 to cruise around the wasteland in, maybe one of those dune buggies from Jak 3, that would have 
 been righteous! Some sort of multiplayer would have been cool too, though I'm not really sure how 
 that would work. Maybe if they added like another region that's populated with just users and perhaps 
 a few NPC mutants to spice things up, but that's just me thinking outside of the box. That's just 
 about all that comes to mind right now as far as bad things go.
  
  
  
  All in all, this game really gives you your moneys worth. It's the perfect marriage of lots of 
 guns and your favorite RPG. I'm anxious to see another installment, but bigger, until that time 
 comes I'll have go check out Borderlands when it drops. For now, I think I'm going to start Fallout 
 all over again! 
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: meconate
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 12, 2009 2:10 pm PT
Review:  Bethesda have really mastered it when it comes to giving a player freedom. The choice to do good 
 or bad, to say what's right and wrong and to let the player go whereever and whenever the he/she 
 wishes to go. Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion amazed people with the unlimited amount of things to do, 
 now it's time for Bethesda to put away the medieval swords and shields. It's time to step into 
 the future of Fallout 3.
  
  The Basic Plot
  You play as whoever you want to play as, let's get this out of the way, your character named 'whatever 
 you wish to call him/her' lives in Vault 101 and has been living their for 18 years. Inside this 
 vault live other people from children to seniors, everything seems happy and socialised and it's 
 all perfect. You know nothing of the outside world only heared many stories of how it is a horrible 
 and evil place... so at this time it's best to stay indoors. But one day your father escapes from 
 Vault 101 and sends everyone into panic mode, nobody is suppose to leave the vault as nobody ever 
 enters. Now you must go out into this outside world and find your father and find out what he is 
 doing and why... this is where the game begins.
  
  The Gameplay
  Like no other, Fallout 3 offers the best gameplay you'll come across for a long time, just don't 
 be too quick to judge. From the first time you step out of the vault, you'll look around at the 
 miles of wasteland only to say 'Sweet Jesus', because this is all for you to explore. So that's 
 it? Just exploring? No, Fallout 3 is full of towns, villages, enemy bases and all sorts to keep 
 you occupied for hours, but that's just the tip of the ice-berg.
  
  Throughout the game you'll come across many other quests along with your main quest. These quests 
 can be completed however you wish to complete them, you can choose to either do them as suggested, 
 or just the complete opposite. For example, if a quest requires you to find someone and bring him/her 
 back to a town, you can choose to kill this person and lie saying he/she was already dead when 
 you got there. It'll give you some pretty bad karma if you were to do this, but it's your choice. 
 Other times you just can't help it but feel sorry for certain characters, after all, it's every 
 man for himself out in the wastelands, but to see a child asking for your help? You've got to have 
 a heart made of concrete to not save him. But this is exactly what I mean when I say that there's 
 so much freedom. You'll be completing an objective only to come across a village with even more 
 people needing some help. You don't have to do these objectives, but a reward of somekind is around 
 every corner so keep your eyes peeled for someone in need of your heroics. 
  
  There are various characters in the wastelands of Washington D. C, some of which are good, others 
 who are plain evil. Your two most common enemies you'll find will be super mutants and raiders. 
 Raiders are just dirty murderers who cannot be trusted, they'll kill anyone who isn't one of their 
 kind and are usually found in gangs of 3 or more, they use whatever weapons they can find and wear 
 some disturbing clothing. Super mutants are everyones most feared monsters, they're big and vicious 
 and hate the whole human race. There's no reasoning with these guys, just kill them on sight if 
 you can, but if they're too many for you to handle, run! There are other enemies too, like robots 
 programmed to kill and animals that have some kind of vendetta against humans, ghouls and even 
 fire breathing ants... But not everyone is your enemy, you'll occasionally find wanderers in the 
 capital wasteland that just want to survive and help others, or even those who can sell you items 
 and repair your equipment. Most of the friendly people who you can be assured won't try to kill 
 you are those found in small holdouts, humans who just want to live as normal as possible. Better 
 still, the Brotherhood, manage to get these guys fighting alongside with you and you know who to 
 trust, even if some of them do act as miserable as possible.
  
  Oblivion weapons were mostly melee weapons, swords and axes, even if you did occasionally use the 
 bow and arrow. Fallout 3 is all about the big guns, from pistols to miniguns and even some melee 
 weapons such as baseball bats and chinese swords. There are grenades and mines that can be used 
 too, and best of all, you can make any of these weapons using the right parts. Each weapon throughout 
 the game feels so right to use and can deliver some very powerful damage if used properly. Along 
 with the extreme gore and violence in Fallout, you'll know if you've really hurt someone, or just 
 gave them a flesh wound.
  
  The Graphics and Sound
  Strangely, although it's obvious that Fallout uses the same engine as Oblivion, the graphics seem 
 slightly better. Whether it's the fact that the colours look better in this game, or that Bethesda 
 may have upgraded the engine, it just seems to run smoother, load faster and look more realistic. 
 The world is huge as I said, but the scenery is just amazing. You'll be exploring metro tunnels, 
 bombed towns, ruins, villages and so much more, all of which look brilliant. The enemies look scary, 
 especially the 'Deathclaw' who'll probably scare the crap out of you. The sound of the guns are 
 great along with the explosions and scenery noises that you'll also hear. One thing that really 
 stands out is the voice acting and dialogue, not only is it brilliant, but it's a wonder how they've 
 managed to put so much dialogue on to one disk. 
  
  Multiplayer and Other Game Modes
  Fallout 3 doesnt have multiplayer and doesn't need it, the fact that there's so much to do and 
 download content is available, that's enough to keep anyone off Xbox Live for a while.
  
  Anything Else?
  V. A. T. S, this is something you can do while in game. Simply press the right bumper 
 while looking at your target to enter V. A. T. S where you can select a different part of your chosen 
 target and fire at that specific location. Once you've selected your parts, the game will go into 
 slow motion and your character will shoot at those selecting parts judging by the chance of hit 
 rating. If hitting a head only says '10%' then that means you've only got that chance of hitting 
 your target's head. It's simple and cool but doesn't make the game too easy either, it just helps 
 you out if needed. 
  
  Verdict
  Prepare to spend over 50 hours playing Fallout 3 as it not only offers some of the best gameplay 
 on anything in the market, but the map is huge with tons to explore and so many things to do. Simply 
 amazing - 10/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 5iveO
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 12, 2009 1:45 am PT
Review:  As being a big fan of the previous two Fallout titles (especially Fallout 2) , I had my doubts over 
 Fallout 3 at first, due to converting from the usual mouse method to controller but after playing 
 this game for a good few hours i realised how silly i was to doubt this.
  
  The graphics are fantastic, with excellent landscapes, scenery, Mutants, Rad-scorpions (although 
 pretty big) , Travellers, Raiders you name it, they all look awesome, There is that much its often 
 quite difficult to know when something is heading your way.
  
  There's tons of stuff to be getting on with, and it's not all straight-forward, i find this game 
 very difficult, i seem to find myself in a panic being chased by mutants with no ammo.
  
  Theres two camera angles to choose from First person and third person, there's the all new V. A. T. S 
 system of Combat which is a bit like the targeted combat from the old Fallout days, were you choose 
 a part of the body to attack, but with the added bonus of slow motion shots and limbs being torn 
 off.
  
  Although I haven't been playing this game long I know it will keep me busy for quite some time, 
 and I know there's plenty more suprises and features up ahead.
  
  I recommend this game to anyone, even if your not familiar with the old Fallout series. This game 
 has it all and if your only buying one game this year, make it this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vandread5
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 11, 2009 8:49 pm PT
Review:  It's been ten years since fallout 2 and fans have been waiting for this game for a long time. When 
 fallout 3 was first announced by Bethesda, die-hard fans was shocked that it was going to be a 
 fps. Many said that Fallout 3 was Oblivion with guns, but is that a bad thing? Oblivion was a masterpiece, 
 the graphics was beyond its time and it raised the standard for future rpg's. Fallout 3 nonetheless 
 did just about the same. The game is beautiful (graphically) and the game play is extremely fun 
 and satisfying. 
  Fallout 3 lets you choose between good, evil, or neutral and Bethesda delivers it quite well. The 
 VATS system is extremely gory but fun and the story is well written with some excellent voice acting 
 by Liam Nelson and Malcolm McDowell. The only problem I have with the game is that the main story 
 is too short and that heads tends to fall off too often (as in head fly off of the body, not exploding) . 
 Fallout 3 is a excellent game and if you like fps or rpg, then you should get the game immediately, 
 but if you don't like fps or rpgs then you should still give it a try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vids
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 11, 2009 7:52 am PT
Review:  Fallout 3 is an addictive game that makes you lose yourself in the remains of Washing.
  
  This is everything that its cracked up to be. VATS is a fantastic innovation, and plays in perfectly 
 with the style of the land and is necessary with the lack of ammunition in the world.
  
  The landscape is just about everything you would expect of the world after the events that occurred..... brown, 
 dingy, rubble etc.
  If you're like me, your first steps out of the vault will go down as one of the most memorable 
 moments in gaming and you will also get extremely excited when after roaming the land and finally 
 coming across a small village or the remains of a shack.
  
  If you dont have this, please do yourself a favor and go pick it up. At first you'll be extremely 
 frustrated by the difficulty and the situation you are put in. But shouldn't you be considering 
 the circumstances and your trying to survive? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XBOXGangster
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 10, 2009 2:58 pm PT
Review:  This is one of the best games I have ever played. On the more harder side it is still a great game 
 but short. This game is based on looking for your dad after he left the vault 101 which is where 
 you where raised. But this game takes place in post apocalyptic times. So there is radiation (Rads 
 in the game) . Takes place in the nations capital. The wastelands of Washington D. C. is a big dangerous 
 place. This game has amazing game play and graphics. I would not recommend this game for people 
 that are looking for a multi-player game. This has no multi-player. Just like oblivion it is a 
 big world. Adding to looking for your dad you watch him die in 1 scene. Then you have to finish 
 his mission, "Project Purity." This will clean the radiation around the wasteland so people can 
 start over again. Its a short game and only took me 3 days to beat and that was playing for about 
 2 hours a day. This game is good i rated it a 10, buy it if you liked oblivion. At the end of the 
 game you have to put in the code and when you do that you should put it in not the person that 
 travels with you to the place. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: boba_ben
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 10, 2009 11:20 am PT
Review:  Fallout 3 was always going to be a good game, it has two amazing prequels and was made by the same 
 people who made oblivion, Bethesda.
  This game is a RPG with a fully customizable character, you can change his hair style, face, weopons 
 and what he wares, so that he is just how you wnat him. It is set in the future after an atomic 
 apocolypse, which makes the game different to any other, and is something that could happen with 
 its limits.
  The game consits of around 11 creatures from tree people to supermutant behemoths, all with specific 
 weak pionts. The game brings in something that has not been done in many other games, V. A. T. S. 
 This allows you to target specific parts of a creature or mutant, although this can make the game 
 a bit too easy.
  The game consits of over 100 diferent towns, cities and villages that you can ransack or purchase 
 items for your travels. There are not many different weopons in the game but there are plenty of 
 hidden ones that you will have search up and down for like the alien blaster at the crashed UFO. 
 Whilst on the subject of hidden items, the game has a lot of easter eggs, you can launch 3 missiles, 
 find a lincoln shrine or search for th UFO.
  The game does not consist of many missions and the story line is easily completed in a couple of 
 ours, leaving you with not much to do except wonder the forgoten wasteland. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SpIash
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 10, 2009 11:18 am PT
Review:  A little confession before i start reviewing the game. I have not made a character yet which follows 
 the path of the Reaver (bad karma) , although i have completed the Mercenary (neutral) and Savior (good) 
 paths. 
  
  Okay so let`s talk a little about what the stories about. In a quick summary... James, the protagonist`s 
 father leaves Vault 101 (one of many Vaults scattered across the Capital Wasteland) in hopes of 
 retrieving information on Project Purity. James` son, the protagonist (who you play as) then also 
 escapes the Vault through means of either violence, pursuation or kindness. What surprised me during 
 the first run through was the diversity that the game offers when it comes to decision making. 
 Everything you do will utterly effect the outcome of your character`s development and how he is 
 seen among others roaming the Wasteland. Think of it like this. You start off with a clean slate 
 and every single thing you do, if its to punching Bruce or calling Amata fat rather than saving 
 her from the Tunnel Snakes effects said characters emotions in the future. Okay enough rambling, 
 in summary, James, your father escapes from Vault 101, you, the protagonist, chases him in hopes 
 of finding your Father and for the first half of the main storyline, you`ll be chasing down key 
 individuals in hopes of retrieving information about your father`s whereabouts and so fourth. 
 
  
  Let`s talk now about gameplay schematics. A new introduction to the Fallout series is the use of 
 VATS, a in-game targetting system which allows for much more accurate shotting and will save you 
 tons of ammo if you constantly rely on VATS for killing your enemies. Basically, it`s extremely 
 helpful. The wide variety of decision making is what sets this game apart from the others. Bethesda 
 implimented a lot of ideas from Oblivion. What try to fix what isn`t broken right and damn, Bethesda 
 did an awesome job at transitioning concepts from an ancient timed game into a post apocalyptic 
 future. The wide variety of friends and foes in the game also takes into account. From Ghouls to 
 Slavers, from Raiders to feral animals, from the Brotherhood to the Enclave, and a huge variety 
 in between, Fallout 3 offers more than enough to satisfy the average gamer. Depending on your path, 
 many of these factions will either veto you out or accept you with open arms. Enough about enemies, 
 I don't want to give much away, so now lets move onto character customization and point distribution. 
 Whenever you level (20 is the current cap) , you're presented with 15 skill points and a perk to 
 be distributed into your characters personality. There are so many skill traits in the game that 
 you'll be debating with yourself if your character should focus more on Small Guns or Big Guns 
 as an example. It's extremely difficult to max everything because this involves finding every book 
 in the game (some 250 of them) , finding the bobbleheads (21 are currently known) and perfectly 
 distributing them as you level. Personally i don't exactly have enough patients to be doing so 
 because I'm more of a casual gamer when it comes to these widescaled RPGs. Perks overall effect 
 your characters performance and some perks even effect the performance of NPC characters, examples 
 being the animal perk (forgot name) , which will make animals passive at the first rank and then 
 even attack your enemies at later ranks. Also, throughout the Wasteland you can obtain certain 
 Weapon Schematics from NPC's which allow you to make custom weapons (OMFG NUKAGRENADE FTW) which 
 just offers a little more customization to the game that not many other games offer.
  
  So far we've covered core gameplay/storyline, Perks, Leveling, Targetting system, decision making, 
 weapon making... what am i missing, oh ya, let's talk briefly about graphics.
  
  What they were going for in Fallout 3 is the distance in which you can see other buildings/towns/settlements, 
 etc and damn they did it well. Standing on the top of Pentenny Tower had given me this realization 
 that Fallout 3 is truly a masterpiece of modern game engineering. The enemies and the NPCs look 
 great, bringing back some Dejavu from the days of Elder Scrolls. 
  
  Sound. Sound is authentic and sounds great.
  
  And right about now im tired so i think ill 
 stop writing xD
  
  (Little hint, don`t kill the Overseer, you`ll miss out on a quest later on in the game)
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: J-Sous
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 10, 2009 8:16 am PT
Review:  Fallout 3 Is The Perfect Game. I Know That Sounds A Bit Much, But Once You Play It And Dive Into 
 The World Of The Wasteland, A Place Of Good Or Evil, This Game Simply Takes You Away On A Journey. 
 Starting Off With A Nice Charachter Customization Process, Fallout Already Sets You On A Path Of 
 Choices. The Entire Game Is Based On Your Actions And How The World Will Respond To All The Many 
 Choices You Make. The Thing Is, Sometimes The Choices Are Not Easy. They Can Be Tough, They Can 
 Be Confusing, Or Even Full Out Ethical. Would You Destroy An Entire City Of Men, Women, And Children? 
 The Game Is Deep. As Far As Gameplay Goes, Other Than How The Player Him/Herself Moves, The Game 
 Is Flawless. Stunning Graphics, Smooth Motions, ASTOUNDING Aiming System With The All-New VATS 
 Control (Basically A Time Stopping Scope Mode) , And Most Crucial Of Features, Excelent Controller 
 Layouts Make Fallout 3 The Best Game Of 2008. With Countless Weapons, Transactions, NPCs, Stories, 
 Missions And More, I Recommend Fallout 3 To Every Gamer On Every Console/PC. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eseries
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 10, 2009 7:50 am PT
Review:  gameplay-awesome.
  storytelling-not so awesome.
  humor-a bit lacking.
  immersive as hell-totally.
  replay value-always.
  
  I've been waiting for Fallout 3 since 
 I first read that bethesda took it over (when oblivion only had 4 screens available) . Now that it's 
 here, it has satisfied me in the direction I expected it too by delivering an experience not like 
 any other rpg out right now. However, playing it makes me want to play the old ones even more. 
 There's just not as many memorable characters and the humor is kind of lost in translation. There 
 are some funny parts, hidden away in the dozens and dozens of computer terminals you'll be reading 
 throughout your journeys. I think the game could have also used a little more variety on the hostile 
 sides of things. But with 3 announced expansions (construction set for pc!!!!) , I'm sure alot of 
 these things will be fixed by people's own desire to see more in the game. The main quest is a 
 turd of a story with three terrible endings, but overall it's about making a new character with 
 the awesome level up system from the old ones. It's amazing how much the game can change because 
 you decide to be a better talker, or smart off to npcs whenever you feel like it. Final thoughts: 
 Buy the game and explore every inch of it. Way better than oblivion, and a great addition to the 
 series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dooby_mclean
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 9, 2009 8:38 pm PT
Review:  Many aspects of this game were disappointing. The graphics and music were great. All of the gadgets, 
 gizmos, and other toys available made the game take up A LOT of time, which is what any RPG player 
 looks for. The weak points, however, couldn't be overlooked.
  Although there are several endings to the game, ones the adventurer must find out on their own, 
 none of them seemed to make much sense. Which then leads me to talk about the story itself. The 
 story, in my opinion, is EXTREMELY weak. I found it silly how they could base an entire game off 
 of what they did. And after the main story is completed, the game stops. Not cool, as being able 
 to play after the main story was a neat part of The Elder Scrolls 4: Oblivion. Looks like we need 
 to make another character!
  Some of the side-quests could not be completed after a certain point in the game is reached. This 
 plays into the grand concept of choice, which is indeed a big part in the game, but having to play 
 through such a big game several times can become tedious if one wants the achievements.
  The level system was extremely lame, as well. With a level cap of 20, once it is reached, one can 
 easily be disappointed when they find out that killing monsters, exploring new areas, picking locks, 
 hacking computers, and talking to people yield absolutely no experience points. And many of the 
 "Perks" you can choose have absolutely no benefit, so why put them in the game?
  To recap: gameplay - solid; graphics - solid; music - solid; story - pathetic.
  A very big disappointment 
 after playing The Elder Scrolls 4: Oblivion by the same makers. Hopefully, future DLC will fix 
 some of these disgusting level cap errors and add to the story to give it a more finished feeling. 
 For now, stick with Oblivion.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: simonromano2007
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 9, 2009 6:12 pm PT
Review:  at first you open your eyes for the first time as your character, you choose how you look and you 
 custumize your character somewhat.
  while you play through the first hour or 2 of the game you go through a very well made tutorial, 
 you assign your first skills. it seems everything is perfect until you wake up one day and you 
 find out your dad has escaped.
  
  you follow in his foot steps and you escape the vault, the first image you see of the wasteland 
 is truly amazing, breath taking and very chilling. it is there when you see that bethesda has done 
 something correctly and that is making this game.
  
  during the first 2 or 3 missions you really are just starting to get a hang of the game and its 
 components such are vats, weapons and controls. after the fourth of fifth mission you really start 
 enjoying the game and it starts sucking you in. you feel afraid to cross unexplored corners of 
 the map, yet you are intrigued to find out what is actually there.
  
  the story is really nothing memorable but you can feel that there is something about it that really 
 wants you to finish it. every move your father makes, you feel obligated to follow it. your choices 
 in this game really affects the overall gameplay and the games way of ending witch is nearly limitless, 
 the approach to every mission is completely up to you.
  
  your relationship and likeness of some characters really might make you cry if they die, happy 
 if they prevail and warm and safe if your near others. the enviornments are really believeble and 
 with great graphics and amazing detail. the leveling up element is really great and very user friendly.
 
  
  all in all a great game for all harcore rpg fans and casual rpg fans (such as my self) . once you 
 finish playing the game, it sucks you again for another playthrough with a diffrent approach. once 
 i saw how the game ended i was afraid of going there once again because i knew what was waiting 
 for me, but in a good way. this is a game that really makes your 60 dollars seem like mere pennys 
 compared to the games reall value. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ROBBYBEAR1985
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 9, 2009 5:59 pm PT
Review:  I have to start out by saying my experience with RPG's is limited, I am usually frustrated with 
 RPG games thinking they need some strange medieval story. I liked Oblivion but found myself pushed 
 away by the atmosphere. All the while thinking "Man I wish the people who made this game (Bethesda) 
 would make something more modern." In Fallout 3 I got my wish and so much more. Everything about 
 this game has been well thought out, the learning curve is the best I have ever come across challenging 
 but always rewarding. The story and side quests are fun and you are very much in control of your 
 own destiny. Choosing to be good or evil was difficult but I found myself rooting for the under 
 dog (every decent person in the game) from early on. You will find yourself becoming attached to 
 most characters in the game and wanting to help everyone, even the snot nosed kids who cuss a lot 
 and call you names. After using V. A. T. S. I want it or something like it in every game I play. PERKS 
 are great and change the gameplay fairly well, my favorite is a disrespected perk entitled "mysterious 
 stranger" it really can help when a friend dressed in 40's detective style clothing pops up out 
 of no where with a .44 magnum to help. I highly suggest lock picking! I have only played through 
 the game once but I will soon pick it up again to go truly evil and I can't wait for the DLC fighting 
 the Chinese in Alaska. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HiiperDrive
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 9, 2009 11:40 am PT
Review:  Bethesda Softworks really did set the tone for themselves three years ago with their critically-acclaimed 
 Elder Scrolls title, Oblivion. Not only did this improve greatly on its predecessor, Morrowind, 
 but it completely blew it away. The next challenge? To perfect a title almost completely opposite 
 to the magic-casting, medieval-esque series. You see, the Fallout series had, over the years, developed 
 a huge fanbase and cult following that had anticipated a sequel to the revolutionary Fallout and 
 Fallout 2 for years. Set in a parallel, post-apocalyptic future, the original titles had followed 
 the story of the Vault Dweller, and later his grandson, the Chosen One. However, Bethesda's edition 
 to the series follows the story of a new Dweller, who resides within Vault 101. And as the Overseer 
 of the Vault preaches, the entrance had not been opened in over 200 years. Since they were sealed.
 
  This is before the player-character's (PC) father had decided to escape the tyranny of the confinements 
 which were the Vault. When this does occur, the Dweller is nineteen years old - and this is also 
 after a prologue that you briefly touch upon, to gain an understanding of the HUD, Pip-boy inventory, 
 VATS, and general background which many references are made to from the birth of the PC. And after 
 yourself managing to reach the outside world, you are set with the task of finding your father 
 - easy then. So, as for the gameplay of F3, firstly for the combat system. The introduction of 
 the VATS, with the addition of the Pip-boy, earn many merits in terms of strategy and the use of 
 tactics in combat. To be able to consider the type of weapons you use, and the effect they have 
 on certain areas of the body has had a superb effect in creating an extensive and enjoyable combat 
 system. Instead of using a sniper rifle from two yards, as a player, through the VATS you may muse 
 over using a rifle to aim for the legs to hinder fast moving mutants, whether to blow off the arms 
 of axe-wielding beasts or to launch a grenade into an feral ghoul-infested room. Adding onto this, 
 with the Pip-boy being an easy-to-use and essential tool, your inventory has never been so easy 
 to manage - it really does make for a brilliant role-playing experience. With these beside another 
 innovation, weapon condition (being where weapons are negatively affected when fired, used in melee 
 combat and many other factors) , tactics and strategy are heavily emphasised, yet not overdone to 
 the extent of complete insanity when in the game. Also, the variety of characters and enemies adds 
 to the flair which F3 already emanated. With Super Mutants, Feral Ghouls, Radscorpions and Mole 
 Rats (which are a pain in the backside however) at every turn it makes an interesting and varied 
 feel which accompanies the beautiful, huge environment. The characters that you meet throughout 
 the game are superb to interact with, and being able to dive into their past gives an accomplished 
 sense of realism. But the fact that on the whole they feel slightly one-dimensional in terms of 
 personality and in voice acting variation counteracts this without a doubt, making sub-quests and 
 also the story feel tedious at times. However, saying that, the sense of progression you gain from 
 the development of the PC is fantastic, and certainly may account for this.
  For sound, Fallout 3 passes with top marks across the board. Whether your experiencing the intensity 
 of a battle with four Super Mutants or enjoying the beautiful creation of the Wasteland wonderland, 
 the soundtrack fits superbly with the image in-game play creates for you. The awe-inspiring score 
 is awesome when witnessed while crossing this desolate world and acts as an incentive to keep coming 
 back to F3. Quality of game soundtracks seem to have become a niche for Bethesda when they transfer 
 projects, with pin-point accuracy on the message of which they wish to portray to the audience. 
 Again with the extensive environment and character design you will have to come back to this game 
 again and again - even if you don't enjoy the game itself, the score is still enviable. The sound 
 effects for the use of weaponry is also great to experience, with fluent, lucid and synchronised 
 use in combat this adds to the experience and realism of Fallout 3, it results in even more intense 
 combat scenes that are thrilling to be a part of. And when parted with the much-loved Radscorpions, 
 the synchronisation in voice acting is also perfected throughout the game. Again adding to the 
 realism of Bethesda's title, it concludes the fact that in terms of sound Fallout 3 ranks with 
 some of the best that I have come across.
  When I came to witness the awesome size and extent of the Capital Wasteland, the first doubts that 
 sprang to mind envisioned problems with frame rates and how common loading bars would occur. But 
 to put it simply - its a rarity that they fall below standard. You can spread your travelling wings 
 the length and breadth of the Wasteland, but the frame rate is at a steady, smooth level throughout 
 - a real credit to Bethesda on that one. Only too often have games fell at the hurdle of technicality. 
 However, at times the frame rate after a prolonged period of time may begin to struggle and can 
 hinder the enjoyment you will get out of Fallout 3, but believe me, it certainly has to be after 
 a number of hours on the Xbox 360 to begin to suffer as some have. Not myself though. Hmmm. Ending 
 on a high note, though, the overall design and attention to detail in F3 is beyond imaginable. 
 Never have I witnessed a game in such a state of post-apocalypian distopia be so darn beautiful 
 in terms of textures, colour and contrast used. The commitment that must have been put in to achieve 
 what Bethesda has here is unbelievable. It really does create a very much achieved playing platform 
 to base Fallout 3 upon. And as I mentioned earlier, in relation to the soundtrack and score used, 
 it makes for a truely magnificent combination to be a part of. Your are truely in a parallel universe 
 when witnessing the awesome structure and breathtaking views of F3.
  And in conclusion, there's no doubting that Fallout 3 is an excellent title to behold. With the 
 addition of the VATS alongside the Pip-boy, it makes it hard to rival the game in terms of the 
 quality Bethesda have created in terms of combat and role-playing. Furthermore with the almost 
 technical perfection of Fallout 3's extensive gaming environment and thrilling views, this is certainly 
 a game that will leave its mark in the gaming community for years to come. But without the annoyances 
 of character interaction and some slight, but forgivable technical issues, F3 could of been the 
 perfect score. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: allan3456
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 9, 2009 1:29 pm PT
Review:  Well, I just had a look at my most recent played time, 56 hours .... since Christmas (and I have 
 been playing several other games alongside fallout.) :S. Time to re-evalute my life perhaps?
  
  In all seriousness this game has a tendency to draw you in, from the moment you are born as 
 it were in vault 101 until the second you beat the game, and then some more, you could find yourself 
 glued to the screen. 
  
  There is scope here, through the easy-to-use yet deep character and skill development system, to 
 play this game however you please. 
  
  The story is immersive, the graphics are very good and the sound effects really appeal to the nature 
 of the game and add that extra something which makes the game so much better. Graphics engine has 
 been much improved since Oblivion, texture pop in is rare and there are no trees floating in mid-air 
 or other such anomalies (that i have seen anyway) . Loading times are fairly brief, (more so if 
 you decide to install to your HDD) and only occur when moving into interior areas. 
  
  This is one of those games I think truly does live up to the hype surrounding it. Featuring immense 
 replay-ability in the form of different ways of approaching your character design (and thus the 
 way you approach the story) and difficulty levels to suit all tastes I cant see myself getting 
 bored of this game for a fair time to come.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: visionary
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 9, 2009 10:41 am PT
Review:  It's strange, in the role play gaming universe we've encountered several different medieval dungeon 
 run-throughs along with a repeated save the world reproduction but aside from the Fallout series 
 we've rarely been given a glimpse of a post apocalyptic themed video game title. When you combine 
 this unique setting which works excellently for Fallout 3 with the open world nature of a Bethesda 
 Softwork title, you have the makings of a video game worthy of your attention if it doesn't take 
 over your entire social life in the process. 
  
  Once you begin, Fallout 3 places you in the role of Bob, Bill, or Max during a 50's inspired future 
 that not too long ago survived a nuclear war, your character, whether it be Bob, Bill or Susan 
 must survive amongst the harsh realities of the wastelands after being released from a vault you 
 spent your entire life in, previously secluded from the rest of the world. You'll start as a baby, 
 witness the trials and tribulations of your teenage life and finally become an adult. You'll eventually 
 be forced to leave the vault and search for your father who has mysteriously left, an act he's 
 instructed you never to do. In this area Bethesda has done a great job with connecting the player 
 to the world inside the vault. 
  
  Despite the excellent way Fallout 3 serves to draw the player in initially, the main beauty of 
 this title comes from the sheer amount of choices you're given from the get-go. From the name of 
 your character as you could tell, bob or bill, your ethnicity, your moral standards and of course 
 the kind of skills your characters will posses. This will ultimately determine the type of survivor 
 you'll be within the wastelands, which is just another term for the dilapidated Washington DC you'll 
 encounter. You can be a brawler, a weapon's specialist or a thief, these wide array of choices 
 are all left up to the gamer. 
  
  Now if you're going to be stuck in the wastelands in the presence hostile individuals or creatures, 
 defending yourself is a necessity. This is an RPG after all so enemies are a norm. If any gamer 
 is familiar with Halo or any other common First Person Shooter, Fallout 3 may provide you with 
 a recognizable illusion when it comes to the way it handles itself in the first person perspective. 
 Don't be fooled though, unless you plan on missing a whole lot, the Vault-Tec Assisted Targeting 
 System, better known as V. A. T. S is the way to go. 
  Because Fallout 3 uses a graphical/game play engine borrowed from an RPG, the FPS elements remain 
 completely unsuited for a shooter. 
  
  The animations are wonky at best, traditional elements such as duck or cover just don't exist in 
 the middle of a battle, and the aiming accuracy leaves much to be desired so straight off the bat 
 the player will never confuse this for a typical run and gun title. VATS serves to establish this 
 fact since it's a system that combines real time action with a turn based structure allowing the 
 player to freeze the action and aim his gun or weapon towards a certain body part. It combines 
 the satisfaction of a Mortal Kombat fatality with the strategic elements of a role playing battle 
 system and it never seems to grow old. 
  
  The amount of times you can use VATS is governed by an element called action points which automatically 
 regenerates after a certain amount of time preventing player abuse of the feature. The actual accuracy 
 of your blows is managed by your statistics in a certain category. If you've focused on gun skills 
 then you'll cause a lot more damage using weapons of this type and so on. You can manage the weapons 
 you use, activate fast travel sequences and access inventory items such as clothes through the 
 use of a device called a Pip boy which you acquire early in the game. It makes much of the micromanagement 
 elements an ease with its intuitive menu systems. 
  
  It's important to note however that many of the factors that make this game as deep as it is can 
 potentially frustrate certain gamers. Guns eventually break down forcing the player repair, which 
 either requires money, more commonly known as caps in the Fallout 3 universe. It may also force 
 the player to invest in repair skills. All this can eventually feel redundant, as it's definitely 
 a video game makes micromanagement impossible to avoid if that isn't your thing.
  
  As soon as you begin the game you're asked to assign your S. P. E. C. I. A. L skills, a familiar feature 
 from past Fallout games. It breaks down into Strength, Perception, Endurance, Charisma, Intelligence, 
 Agility and Luck. Depending on your choices this can greatly determine your success with VATS, 
 all in all every statistic is connected in some way. 
  
  Because Fallout 3 takes place in a torn down Washington DC, the effort placed on capturing the 
 feel of a post nuclear America can be depressing in its grim reality and at the same time beautiful 
 in its own right thanks to the absolute level of detail placed within every backdrop. From the 
 tattered concrete on the Washington Monument, to the dusty trampled roads of the Wastelands, it's 
 an eerie future that Bethesda has managed to breathe life into. 
  
  This is particularly noticeable when you come across a settlement known as Megaton; built entirely 
 from the scraps of old airplane parts, a location completely imagined from the top to the bottom. 
 When you combine the various 1950's and current generation references such as Nuka Cola, the humor 
 and design choices, from robots to laser guns you have a game that's very unique on its take of 
 a futuristic America. 
  
  From a technical standpoint however, Fallout 3 has its ups and downs graphically. While it sports 
 some great texture work and draw distance for such a large open world title, the smaller aspects 
 such as facial and character animations appear stiff and at times seem robotic. You'll also come 
 across non playable characters that may look similar in appearance, like the same old man you swore 
 you pick pocketed in another town suddenly briefing you on a mission in another. Then you have 
 the random glitches that show up at the most inconvenient of times. It all taints much of realism 
 offered from its thoroughly detailed world. 
  
  The brilliant levels of accuracy that exist in Fallout 3 however not only extend to the environments 
 but also amid the fights you encounter. Brutality is the name of the game when it comes to combat 
 visually, this is definitely not a game for children and Fallout 3 makes sure to express this fact 
 very early in the game's cycle. If a leg can be blown off, it will blow off in an unforgiving bloody 
 array of flesh. It carries the torch of a series that has never attempted to hold its audiences 
 by the hand, the choices you make along with the actions you sometimes have to take as a player 
 is presented in all its uncensored glory and can truly test your own morals if taken too seriously. 
 
  
  Now what would traversing through the wastelands be without some nice tunes to accompany you on 
 those long trips of silence. Thankfully Fallout 3 boasts some cleverly implemented 1950's tunes 
 that you wouldn't think a person in the year 2008 would take a liking to but it blends well with 
 the current settings. Like Grand Theft Auto your Pip Boy can grab various radio signals depending 
 on your current location, so you may hear Roy Brown's classic, Might, Mighty Man on one station 
 while in the middle of a gun battle, or the repeated propaganda speeches of the Enclave on another. 
 It all serves to make the world around you feel more believable and it works. But in spite of the 
 pretty danceable music, all is not well in the audio department and this becomes clear as you begin 
 to talk to the various individuals that inhabit Washington DC. 
  
  When you have a game that includes more than 40,000 lines of spoken dialog, it should come to no 
 surprise that the performances were unequal for the most part. Fallout 3's voice actors display 
 moments of brilliance and at times stages of mediocrity. It's like the constant flirting between 
 a low budget motion picture and the brilliant acting of an Oscar nominated film, and this becomes 
 increasingly clear during moments intended to express raw emotion which ultimately ends up falling 
 flat in its delivery. 
  
  Another irritating flaw in Fallout 3's presentation comes from the eventual conclusion. Much of 
 the game provides you with so many choices and options that the overall experience becomes as epic 
 as the time you put into the game, but you're rewarded with an ending that not only ends abruptly 
 but does little to match up with the overall scope of the game. It's unfortunate that Bethesda 
 seems to have sacrificed the idea of a single grand ending for a misguided attempt at squeezing 
 in 200 or so simplistic and rather short possible finales. At the end of the day it's not a fault 
 that takes too much away from the overall experience though but is still disappointing nonetheless.
 
  
  For many gamers out there along with me the reviewer, Fallout 3 can be a perfect example as to 
 why we play video games. The lack of consequence from the actions we make, the many ways we can 
 influence the overall experience instead of the passive nature of other mediums. Lastly there are 
 the environments in which we can explore without boundaries. It's clearly arguable that there are 
 not enough game companies that create worlds. On one hand you have titles that are sort of like 
 wonderfully realized tunnels with paths that lead to different sections, but eventually lead you 
 to the same place. Then you have titles that are like playgrounds. Sure you only have the options 
 to go on the slide, play in the sand, go on the jungle gym but you're free to go about this in 
 any way you wish, and how much fun you have and the experience you take with you can change on 
 any given day. 
  
  Bethesda has filled a void for gamers in the RPG realm and if you have any remote interest in the 
 genre then you owe it to yourself to play this gem of a title. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: devak108
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 8, 2009 8:05 am PT
Review:  I actually didn't quite know what to expect when I first played Fallout 3. I have never played 
 the first two entries in the series and although I think they are fantastic games I never seemed 
 to get into the elder scrolls games. I had heard several great reviews about fallout and decided 
 to give it a try. And I am so glad I did!
  
  I am a huge fan of well made rpgs, and I can say in all honesty that fallout 3 is one of the best 
 I have ever played. The post nuclear apocalypse wasteland that is the game world is amazing. The 
 level of detail and depth to all aspects of this game is outstanding. The combat system is very 
 fun and entertaining. The use of the VATS targeting adds and almost turn-based strategy to the 
 game, creating a unique experience that seems both very progressive and strangely familiar. Seeing 
 a vicious mutant dogs head get torn off by your laser rifle fire is just a blast.
  
  I have heard several reviewers say that the story seemed sterile and lacked emotional strength. 
 I personally enjoyed the main story, as well as some of the side quests very much. It wasn't Final 
 Fantasy, but the events that occur in this dark world certainly sucked me in and left me always 
 wanting to come back.
  
  If you'd like to take the game more slowly, there are plenty of miscellaneous quests to occupy 
 your time with. Several of them also yield unique weapons or armor making them more than worth 
 your while.
  
  My one and only complaint with the game was that I did experience a few visual glitches and on 
 two occasions my system froze completely forcing me to restart. These problems would have annoyed 
 me more if Fallout 3 wasn't such a superb game otherwise. They were easy to overlook. 
  
  Bottom line: If you like rpgs this game is a must have, if you don't try it anyway you may be surprised.
 
  
  Graphics: 9/10
  
  Gameplay: 10/10
  
  Story: 9.5/10
  
  Replay value: 10/10
  
  Overall: 10/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crankypinoy
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 7, 2009 4:58 pm PT
Review:  Set in 2277 Fallout 3 has you wandering around D. C. searching for clues and quests as you search 
 for your father. Let's start with the good. The map, which is Washington D. C., is MASSIVE it is 
 filled with many different cities, farms, and makeshift bases. What suprised me the most is how 
 far you can see on this map. You can stand in the north-east area on a mountain and you can see 
 the Washington Memorial on the south-east if you've seen the map you know that it is amazing. VATS 
 is awesome you can target individual body parts and watch in slow motion as your enemy becomes 
 crippled. For example shooting them in the arms makes them less accurate or shooting in the legs 
 causes them to run slower if you are lucky enough (or you just have a strong weapon) you can see 
 you enemy explode on your screen. The length of this game is unbeliveable it took me 60 hours just 
 to beat it and I didn't even unlock all of the places, get every sidequest, or collect all of the 
 bobbleheads. The way the environment looks is kind of like the 50s which is great I guess it gives 
 you that feeling that it's 1957 rather than 2277 that's what most of the game looks like so if 
 you were expecting some futuristic setting I am sorry to disappoint. Now just like any post apocalyptic 
 story you must scavenge to survive which is really fun believe it or not. What's great is that 
 you can also change from 3rd person to 1st but the movement in 3rd person is a little weird. There's 
 too many good stuff about this game so I'm going to the bad parts and trust me it isn't that long.
 
  
  What is weird is the NPCs. Basically an NPC can look like you, there is no unique traits they have 
 (unless they are a ghoul) . Some NPCs have the same voice but they just look different which annoys 
 me somehow. Now this is the last bad thing I can think of are the enemies. The enemies are great 
 and all but there isn't a lot of variety just your basic robot, insect, or you regular everyday 
 freak.
  
  Well that's my review. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: standarddamage
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 7, 2009 10:50 am PT
Review:  When you're in the practice of writing short reviews, wrapping up a game that took you over forty 
 hours to complete in a few paragraphs is a little difficult. This is especially true when the game 
 is as absolutely fantastic as Fallout 3.
  
  You play as the son of a scientist who has escaped Vault 101, a protective underground vault that 
 shields its inhabitants from the dangers of the outside, post-nuclear environment they live in. 
 Once he escapes, the powers that be come looking for you, so you're forced to also flee to the 
 outside world (known as the Wastelands) . Make no mistake that almost everything in the Wastes wants 
 to either eat you, torture you, rob you, or kill younot necessarily in that order.
  
  This game is different from its predecessors (Fallout and Fallout 2) in that most of the humor 
 is gone and has been replaced with a very serious, dark tone that overshadows the entire game. 
 It does still have its hilarious moments, however, which take the form of various robot encounters 
 throughout the land. But these moments are very few and far between, and seem to be there just 
 to keep things from becoming too serious as opposed to setting the overall tone.
  
  It also bears some striking similarities to games like Morrowind and Oblivion when it comes to 
 conversing with other characters, which you will do a lot of during the course of the game. That's 
 only to say that the game wears its developer on its sleeve, as it's true Bethesda all the way.
 
  
  But let none of what I've just mentioned scare you away from is one of the finest titles to come 
 out this year. It's apparent that nothing was left to chance in the development of this title, 
 and this game is certainly much more than just the same old thing when it comes to an Action-RPG 
 title.
  
  At first you may not think to much of it visually, but it won't take your eyes long to adjust to 
 what's going on. The gritty, dirty-looking graphics are nothing more than a reflection of the era 
 in which your character lives, and as a result nothing looks very pretty. Instead it all looks 
 cold and destroyed, which is exactly the way the game should look.
  
  There is also a lot of finery in the sound department. Everything from a laser blast to a bullet 
 richocheting off a nearby rock is done well, and the screams and sounds of some of your enemies 
 will send chills down your spine at times. And while both the sound-effects and the music are all 
 excellent, the real star of the show here is the voice acting. Liam Neison does an excellent job 
 playing as your father of course, but even the lesser characters are done to near perfection. Granted, 
 if you talk with a lot of characters (and you will) , you hear a lot of repeat voices, but it doesn't 
 really detract from the game at all. They managed to completely avoid any bad or cheesy dialogue, 
 so you'll be happy to stand and talk with someone for awhile.
  
  The controls and in-game mechanics all work great. Menus are easy to navigate, it's easy to assign 
 experience points as you level-up, and you'll never miss your target due to a control error. You'll 
 only miss if you're trying to rush, you make a mistake, or your character simply sucks with whatever 
 weapon you're trying to use. For example, a character who handles standard firearms well may not 
 be so handy with a sledgehammer, so it pays to be attentive to what strengths you're choosing for 
 your character. 
  
  Speaking of targeting, the best of the new mechanics the game employs is its VATS system. With 
 the click of a shoulder-button, you will zoom in on your target, be able to select various body 
 parts, and see how likely you are to hit that body part once you've selected it. Once you've selected 
 what you want to aim for, you simply hit the A-button and the VATS systems does the rest. 
  
  The beauty of this system is that it allows you to make choices. Want to dizzy your opponent? 
 Hit them in the head. Want to keep them from running away but not kill them? Shoot them in the 
 leg. Just be prepared for some nasty side effects, as it does put your shots into slow-motion and 
 uses a more dramatic camera angle, so you may end up watching an enemy's head, leg, or arm splatter 
 on the wall behind them.
  
  Choices and consequences are the name of the game here, because literally everything you do carries 
 a consequence and is all interwoven into the storyline. Cross the wrong person and you may have 
 hit-squads hunting you for the rest of game, but help the right person and you may end up with 
 an extra ability. It all comes together in the end, when the game will actually highlight your 
 various achievements throughout the game. It's a great effect and helps make all of your efforts 
 worth it
  
  So my final recommendation? I have trouble thinking of anyone who wouldn't at least like this game, 
 and most will love it. Its disc is packed with amazing gameplay, carries a massive storyline, and 
 has tons of replay value thanks to all of the different choices you can make. You can literally 
 play the game again and come up with entirely different results. The only people who should avoid 
 this are those who can't stand games longer than 10 hours, and those who hate RPG elements in gaming. 
 Everyone else should appreciate the gameplay, and the value it carries. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maximum_maximus
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 7, 2009 8:54 am PT
Review:  Fallout 3 is simply one amazingly fantastic game. It has all that a great RPG should have and Bethesda 
 has placed them all in the right places as they always do. The story is most compelling and makes 
 you want to play on and on just to find out what will happens next. The character creation option 
 is fantastic and allows you to make your character to look however you like. The graphics, animation 
 and sound are fantastic, which greatly adds to the over all enjoyment of the game. Not to mention, 
 the option to play in both 1st or 3rd person perspective, which is, you got it, fantastic. Are 
 you beginning to see the point that I am sending, this game is fantastic :) . There is so much to 
 do and even more to learn about this new wast-land world that you find your self, add to that all 
 the many tough bad-guys, radioactive zombies and creatures that are all trying to kill you with 
 a vengeance and you have everything in place for hours and hours of great fun. There is a little 
 bit of a learning curve, but its designed and implemented so well that you will be a pro in no 
 time. My mind is filled with nothing but good things that I can say about FO3, however, be that 
 as it may, there is only one thing that you need to know. FO3 is a fantastic game that you will 
 love playing and replaying, so stop reading and go out and get this game, trust me you will have 
 lots of fun with this one. Bethesda has done it again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ztg360
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 7, 2009 6:51 am PT
Review:  fallout 3 is the best rpg style game i have ever played. it has 100 places to discover. has well 
 balanced weapons. its graphics are amazing for how big of a game it is and the frame rate only 
 acts up every once in awhile. my main complaint is that the enemies all happen to be master shots 
 at a 100 or more yards away with automatic weapons but other then that i have no complaints. some 
 characters feel completely hostile but others make u feel right at home talking to them. the complexity 
 of the quests is simply amazing. the enemies are extremely well varied from giant ants to mercenaries 
 trying to kill you throught the game. the choices between good and evil are actually good and evil, 
 for example u can blow up an entire city with a nuke or save it the town by disarming the nuke. 
 overall i give it a 9.7 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ceil
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 7, 2009 6:48 am PT
Review:  I played Oblivion for a short time and discovered it to be very repetitive in nature. This game 
 has been a learning experience so far. It took me a while to understand the buying and selling 
 of items, which really cut into my funds to purchase items I needed from the getgo. The instructions 
 were not clear and after going online to find some help, it all makes sense to me now. I agree 
 with some of these other reviews that state you really have to shoot the bad guys about 4-5 times 
 in the head to make them die. The graphics are really well done and the game plays very smoothly, 
 but you really should take the time to learn all aspects before setting out into the wasteland, 
 so you don't become the wasted. I learned the hard way-oh well. I am enjoying the game and will 
 play it to the end, now the hard part is over with, and look forward to any updates that will enhance 
 game time. I really like the VATS system, if those super shots would just knock over the enemy. 
 I have gotten used to the PipBoy, finally, and the compass, which is also hard to get use to. I 
 do like the travel aspect, so your not wasting time going from one area to another, since the mapping 
 is so large. I know from playing Wow and other MMO's, you spend half your time traveling around 
 from place to place, which can get annoying. All in all, I think this is a great game and really 
 well done. I am sure the updates will enhance playing time even more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: itsdan
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 7, 2009 6:33 am PT
Review:  Bethesda have done it again, with the cheers of RPG gamers everywhere still ringing in their ears 
 Bethesda hit us from the opposite side with a futuristic blockbuster.
  
  Fallout 3 works on a reasuringly similar eengine to Oblivion, which gives a snug change over for 
 those who're coming over from Oblivion, but it's different enough to keep those gamers interested. 
 While those who're green to this style are guided into life in the Wastelands at a steady pace.
 
  
  For a World so affectionately titled the wastes, it is stunning, presenting humanities struggle 
 to hold on while making the world easy to connect to, and thus, easy to believe in. This allows 
 the gamer to create empathy for the characters they meet along the superb journey. 
  
  There are, however, a few let downs to this game. Firstly, the GNR station while hugely entertaining 
 with really apt songs, gets dull very quickly, too little dialogue, and not enough songs. A real 
 shame. 
  
  Also at times combat outside of VATS can feel awkward and a bit of a pain to use. This is due to 
 the inclusion of using guns & their ilk, while not making the characters maneuvering speed anywhere 
 quick enough as you need.
  
  All-in-all Bethesda have put together a very strong game, action packed in the right places while 
 remaining true to their "uber-sandbox" history of games. Characters are great, funny, annoying, 
 and pityful, and all in the right doses. 
  
  Kudos to Bethesda for a cracking shot at a modern Oblivion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamerkat
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 7, 2009 4:31 am PT
Review:  the game was very good... I admit i never thought it would have been so great.... the only reason 
 i even bought it at first was because I had extra cash to spend at game stop and they recommended 
 me this game.... I didst expect i would actually enjoy it this much i had to lend it to my friend 
 just to keep myself from playing it..... that was my first ever rpg game.. i haven't even beaten 
 it and i am close but it is very good of a game and rightfully deserves a good score and respect 
 from all people who play it... his is a good mixture of blood and gore with rpg style game play 
 at least its mainly free roaming.... it has wonderful places to explore and really is very long 
 i have only founded so many places and still have more than half way to go.... the enemies are 
 sometimes overwhelming and yes the auto save feature does kind of ruin it time to time but its 
 pretty simple to just make a separate save to continue from if you have doubt to survive in certain 
 areas... i for one will keep playing this game for a very long time (thank you) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sol_Invictus-80
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 7, 2009 2:55 am PT
Review:  The game keeps up with its two glorious forerunners in the serie. 1st/3rd person view is a good 
 choice, the time for isometric-view games is long gone and nostalgic geeks should update their 
 minds and accept it. Luckily the (awful) Oblivion engine has been updated a bit, or at least it 
 feels much less annoying. 
  
  The Fallout feeling and atmosphere are well catched, graphics are very very good, controls are 
 smooth. Sounds are good but you'll end up hating the radio, and turning it off all the time.
  
  What feels odd then? Well, some things. 
  The strange XPcap/world extension ratio, for example: 
 you are capped to 20 levels but find enough stuff to gain XP for some 200 levels, and once you 
 are maxed out the enjoyment of exploring is severely reduced, also because the setting is very 
 repetitive and the quests are not many. You loose momentum sooner than expected, as the game does 
 not offer the variety of Fallout 1 and (expecially) 2.
  Also, the combat interface: at first it's funny, but you soon become over-competent and the one-shot-one-kill 
 is the rule, as all opponents are very weak. Piece of cake, also against Enclave soldiers who die 
 way too easily.
  And, as stated above, the lack of variety: not just in the environment, also in the items and characters. 
 Not so many weapons, or at least not so many useful ones. And really *few* armors, which is sad. 
 And, also, really few kinds of enemies: it's either supermutants or raiders 90% of the time, which 
 becomes a bit too repetitive.
  
  Playing as good or bad guy isn't really that difference, so replayability is limited to your patience. 
 
  Hopefully the coming add-ons will do something to improve the above.
  As it is, Fallout is a very good game nevertheless, worth buying and playing. But it's not a masterpiece.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Aj181
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 6, 2009 7:12 pm PT
Review:  This game is one of the most emmersive games of all time every little detail of this game drags 
 you deeper into the dark, gritty, post nuculear wateland that is the world of Fallout 3. Youre choices 
 as the player send ripples through the world they affect how people react and think of you if you 
 are the beacon of hope and resist the temptation that has claimed the other citizens of the wasteland 
 the people will look to you as an example of purity and justice and will show you respect. If you 
 are a scourge to humanity and all you leave in youre wake is pain, death, misery, and curuption the 
 people of the wasteland will fear you and look to you with distane and hatred. Every character 
 you meet has a story behind them a past whether it is something they will willingly share with 
 you or something they would rather have forgotten. This game is the most open ended game I. ve ever 
 played from the ruins of Washington D. C. to the make shift city of Megaton and the Ghoul city of 
 Under World and Rivet City that is built inside of a beached aircraft carrier. The combat system 
 in Fallout 3 is revoulutionary in so many ways like  
 lets you target a specific part of youre enemys body such as the head, torso, arms, or legs and the 
 fact that you can cripple any part of an enemys body crippling the legs slows down youre enemy 
 crippling the arms brings down thier accuracy when shooting and the head makes them starts making 
 the world around them look blurry. The story in this game is one of the best in any game i, ve played 
 in a long time keeping this spoiler free the story involves  
 and Victory.
  This is why this was game of 2008. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: M1897
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 6, 2009 5:49 pm PT
Review:  I had high hopes for fallout 3 when I first heard about it but then I began to wonder if bethesda 
 could pull another oblivion, but when I got it and played it, I soon found that my suspicions were 
 unnecessary because it is just as good if not better than TES oblivion. The world is just as big, 
 the gameplay is just as immersive and there is just as much to do. Also the replay value is excellent 
 and The vats is just a cherry on top. It is also awesome to see real life monuments and locations 
 in game. I think Bethesda did an excellent job portraing a post-apocalyptic Washington D. C. . The 
 buildable weapons (EX. the rock it launcher) is also an edition into the game. The unique weapons 
 in the game are also very cool. My personal favorite is the alien blaster. The pip-boy 3000 makes 
 inventory managment, healing, etc., a snap. I hope that bethesda can make a fallout 4 just as good 
 as this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nosferatu94
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 6, 2009 4:32 pm PT
Review:  This game is definately a good way to burn up time like it's free, I've already played 90+ hours 
 with one character. There's alot to explore and kill and just look at in the madness that is Fallout 
 3. Bethesda creates a world easily one can be drawn in and become savior or destroyer, i prefer 
 to be bad myself :)
  VATS is by far the coolest way to approach combat in a shooter, allowing for both a tactical and 
 run-and-gun style of gritty urban warfare coupled with the RPG aspects of character development 
 combine to create a epic and rewarding experience. I've played both Morrowind and Oblivion and 
 Bethesda has shown growth both in terms of great games and great DLC and I'm so looking forward 
 to Jan. thru Mar. for the new stuff. This game kicks ass so just go out and play it 'nuff said. 
 Watch out for Super Mutants... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pyro_tech9
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 6, 2009 2:34 pm PT
Review:  this game is way better than any other fallout ever made! the 3-d free roam map lets you scower 
 the destroyed lands of washington d. c for food, clothing or armors, and weapons to defend yourself! 
 test your survival tactics in a land that has no laws, and fight people who have no remorse. this 
 post-apocalyse thriller will have you wondering where your at in the begining but it gets better 
 and better from there. want to go to the washington monument? ok! lincoln momorial? no problem! 
 but im not going... i've just started playing and i dont even want to know whats inside that city. 
 fallout offers a unique aiming system called V. A. T. S. check the possiblity of hitting a certain 
 area to deal major damage to your target. this game will also give you a choice in morals. do you 
 wish to help others and take down evil? or will you choose to canabalize on the innocent? this 
 game will give you many choices and many missions to choose from also. i suggest getting this game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -CANUCK-
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 6, 2009 12:50 pm PT
Review:  Fallout 3 : Oblivion-developer Bethesda's open world post-nuclear apocalyptic RPG thingy, combining 
 dread and depression with a smiling 50s cartoon character!
  
  Story : The character creation system and tutorial are not-so-subtly tied into your character's 
 birth and upbringing, within a giant Vault that's been shut of from the rest of the world. When 
 you're father (voiced by Liam Neeson and why not?) suddenly escapes, all hell breaks loose and 
 you escape the Vault and into the desecrated remains of a post-nuclear-war Washington DC, where 
 you can think about searching for your father, or just walking around town picking pockets and 
 killing people. The main story doesn't get interesting until near the end, but you may as well 
 follow it anyways since it'll open up more locations on the map.
  
  Comparisons to The Elder Scrolls 4: Oblivion are indeed inevitable, so I'll get them all out of 
 the way now. Yes you're more or less dealing with Oblivion in the future. No, Washington DC isn't 
 quite as big as Oblivion's world was, but it's a lot more interesting. Instead of 15 towns that 
 are practically clones of each other and a lot of empty jungles and identical caves, you've got 
 about 4 interesting towns, a wasteland filled with interesting set-pieces, unique sights and people 
 that want you dead, and radiation poisoning. Yes, you're playing with guns instead of swords now. 
 But the core ideas are the same; you can rob and kill anyone you please, with the predictable moral 
 (you lose "karma" or GOOD GUY POINTS) and legal (people will want you dead for awhile!) consequences. 
 You can pick up as much junk as your kleptomaniacal heart desire, which becomes somewhat important 
 since you're going to need to scavenge and sell whatever may be valuable in order to make some 
 money.
  
  And that's when Fallout 3 started to develop an identity to me. One of the things I like is the 
 sense that I was barely getting by in this desolate wasteland. Ammunition feels scarce, money can 
 be hard to get by, and unless you're some kind of expert thief then you're going to be stingy on 
 health packs. Any penny your frugal ass can make will be needed, and whether you choose to spend 
 your hard-earned bottle caps on repairing weapons or health becomes some kind of important decision. 
 When you level up, you get to choose which character attributes are upgraded, and you may have 
 to think twice about putting everything into combat, as opposed to being able to independently 
 fix weapons, pick locks or barter.
  
  The downside to this scarcity of assorted commodities is that it becomes trickier to specialize 
 in any combat style. You can't quite get by being an explosives or energy weapons specialist, as 
 whatever weapons you elect to use in any given situation will be based on whatever weapons you 
 actually have ammo for. I had the same problem with Bioshock where the whole idea of letting me 
 level up certain areas was rendered null and void by how I was being forced to use whatever attacks 
 I could actually afford to use.
  
  On top of that, I always felt like I was missing a piece of the puzzle; some kind of crucial bit 
 of knowledge that I would've had to have played the previous Fallout games to pick up on. Like 
 a certain kind of strategy I would need to use to kill a Super Mutant without emptying out entire 
 clips of bullets on one, let alone the next twenty. The in-game tutorial is great at explaining 
 concepts that one would've known about from playing Oblivion, but certain other concepts, like 
 whether or not there are parts of the body I should shoot at in VATS other than the head, or how 
 to deal with enemies that can shoot me from a football field's length away when I can't shoot them 
 unless football's length off, or even something as silly as the need to use abandoned subway systems 
 to get to certain areas, seem to have alluded me in my inexperience with this franchise. The key 
 here is that I can't be alone; the vast majority of people buying Fallout 3 have more than likely 
 never played a Fallout game before.
  
  And thus, combat is a mixed bag. You have to adapt to the idea that everything is stat based and 
 thus you won't be able to instantly headshot and kill everything like some kind of deathmatch uber 
 1337 creature. My biggest annoyance is that the farther you are from a target, the less likely 
 you are to hit; a weakness your enemies don't seem to have. And being that you won't have a somewhat 
 expendable supply of ammunition until late in the game, your strategy in combat will tend to be 
 "rush up close to an enemy and pop them in the skull." To assist in this point-blank gunplay, the 
 VATS system lets you expend a certain number of action points to automatically target key parts 
 of the enemy, if you're not feeling confident in your reflexes and want to be stingy with ammo. 
 If there's one advantage to this system, though, it's that successful kills will often result in 
 some fantastically excessive death sequences with exploding heads and slow motion dismemberment.
 
  
  I guess what I'm trying to say is that if Fallout 3 has a fault, it's that it has an unorthodox 
 learning curve and difficulty curve. One of the earlier missions will require you to plow through 
 a legion of Super Mutants despite your limited munitions. Unlike Oblivion, where if you never leveled 
 up your hero, you could realistically be fighting rabbits and mice on the end-game levels, enemies 
 don't seem to get progressively more difficult as you level up; an angry Super Mutant will always 
 be an angry Super Mutant, and can only get easier to kill as your stats improve and you wise-up 
 to the game's mechanics.
  
  But once you get into that groove, that's when you can start to appreciate the nuances. The otherwise 
 long walks to any given destination on the map feel like fun little adventures into the unknown 
 rather than some needless way of artificially lengthening the game. Characters are mostly interesting 
 and have their own personality and pockets to explore. The juxtaposition of the wholesomeness of 
 the 50s' perceived idea of America and the horrific nuclear Armageddon makes for a distinct contrast 
 that one can't help but get immersed in. There's a slight tinge of USA-bashing and that'll always 
 put a smile on my Canadian face. If you look hard enough, there's a hearty assortment of fleshed 
 out side-quests that you can wind up losing yourself in. The number of unlikely bonus stats or 
 "perks" that you can give your character upon leveling up opens up a bit of experimentation and 
 incentive to replay the game. And I guess once you've wrapped your mind around the stat-based combat, 
 you'll welcome the challenge of battling armed soldiers with your shotgun.
  
  I can't compare Fallout 3 to previous Fallout games but I'd wager that people who enjoyed those 
 games will find radioactive bliss here. For fans of Bethesda's games, what you're getting here 
 is a smaller, but more interesting and arguably more fun open-world RPG for you to pillage and 
 fiddle with, or at least in the later end of the game when you can afford to waste bullets on something 
 that wasn't trying to kill you first. For people who've never tried one of these games before, 
 I'd say that Oblivion makes a better gateway drug into this genre; a warm-up, if you will, for 
 the real exercise of Fallout 3. You kind of have to adapt to the game to really appreciate it, 
 but once you do, it'll trigger a nice, warm, light-green glow in your heart.
  
  Pros : Great 40s music to jive to while you maim ghouls and giant mutants.
  
  Cons : Some glitches. 
 I was of the impression that in earlier Fallout games that, with the right stats, you can play 
 the entire game without ever getting into a fight. You SO can't do that here.
  
  4 stars
  
  Now I see why so many people geek out over that Fallout cartoon mascot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jay_french_cool
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 6, 2009 8:24 am PT
Review:  completely life consuming...... there is no better way of describing what is probably the game of 
 the year.
  
  i could write for hours and i would barely scratch the surface of this mammoth blockbuster.
  
 
  it has it all.. great storyline where u have to make decisions that will affect many characters 
 within the wastlands that used to be washington d. c... much has been made of an early set-peice 
 where u are asked by one guy to disarm a nuclear bomb..... and another person will ask u to destroy 
 it... well let me tell u... this isnt the only time u come across such moments.
  
  in terms of pound 4 pound value... u will not come across a better title...... well only oblivion... bethesdas 
 other 360 hit.
  
  to call this oblivion with guns is 4 me ignorant...... this is better... the only drawback is that 
 the side quests in this game are not as well varied.
  
  if i had a complaint to make...... and its a big if... is that any one used to playing fps (like myself) 
 such as halo or call of duty will be dissapointed with the combat... ememies such as the human raiders 
 will suck as much as 20+ bullets before dropping.
  
  my advise 4 these people would be to try and othercome the strange opening events where u play 
 a baby... then a small child before leaving your vault... and give it some time.... the hours will 
 pass by without u realising... just last night i went for a quick 10 mins and was hooked exploring 
 for 4 hours.
  
  IN a word.... amazing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jo_ache
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 6, 2009 7:33 am PT
Review:  this game was exactly what i thought it would be; great. it has great graphics throughout the whole 
 game there was minimal lag. there are plenty of weapons and side missions to keep u busy for a 
 while without getting boring or repetitive. the main story line is also very good with a blend 
 of mystery and drama and of course plenty of action. i also liked the wide variety of this u can 
 choose to upgrade because it lets u kind of decide what type of person u are in the game. so overall 
 if u are looking for a game to keep u occupied for a while and no get boring this is definitely 
 it. it is awesome to say the least!!!!! 
  if i had to say anything that was bad about this game is that there is to much talking invoved 
 to get all the information u need. of course u can just skip all the blah blah blah and just go 
 killing people but if u r trying to just go through the story u have to listen to certain people. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ctortolini
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 6, 2009 7:11 am PT
Review:  This is one of those games that are very hard at the beginning but as soon as you build up your 
 character gets not only easier but also funnier and interesting.
  
  The level of detail in the Washington Wasteland is amazing, somebody took his time thinking about 
 details... you can get really lost in side quests if you are not cautious and the ones you want 
 to choose to complete (the ones rewarded with achievements) are really original and interesting. 
 
  
  My one complaint about this game is the main story... it is good... but is not great... it kind 
 of unveils too fast at the end leaving you with the feeling that the road have been longer that 
 it should for a somehow mild "finale". 
  
  Towards the end I was expecting a "to be continued" kind of moment that could be fulfilled with 
 DLC (remember that fallout 3 is intended to have lots of DLC coming) ... but that wasn't the case 
 (I can't say why though without spoiling the end for you) .
  
  All in all, is a very good games... one of the best in 2008 but I would have liked a little more 
 epic ending for my character after all the work I've put into her... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DrMatta
Rating: 6
Date: Jan 6, 2009 1:42 am PT
Review:  After completing your tutorial-youth, you step outside the vault.
  So far it's been pretty unimpressive but you have a good feeling about this game. The landscape 
 looks pretty impressive, just like it did with Oblivion when you came out of the sewers.
  
  After walking around for a short while you reach the first town, which conveniently has an atom-bomb 
 lying in the middle. Obviously you get to choose whether you blow it up or not, giving you the 
 all-new fascinating choice of being good or evil. I blew up the bomb.
  And that was about the best moment in Fallout 3.
  Well, there was another pretty scary vault, 
 but other than that, it was a pretty mediocre map. Sure; detailed, but boring.
  The graphics aren't that good by today's standards (character creation was a joke) , and shooting 
 enemies 7 times in the face without them dying doesn't make things more immersive.
  
  It's like bullets have less impact than swords.
  It's like i've already done this 300 hours before.
 
  It's like, damn why is this game so vastly over-rated?
  But that's the problem anyway, it feels like you're playing Oblivion.
  With guns. And some lame 
 interface. God i hate pip-boy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: anime_freak22
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 6, 2009 9:26 pm PT
Review:  THIS IS MY OPINION IF YOU THINK DIFFERENTLY DON'T READ!!!!
  
  
  NOTE: First of all, I have not finished the game and I did not buy it. I rent it. Hvane't played 
 Oblivion yet.
  
  I've always been a fan of nintendo and was a casual/hardcore gamer more casual... However, since 
 I started seeing games like this on the xbox 360 I got hooked. The game looked too amazing to be 
 true... I was exactly right not is that good as I imaged. At first when I was playing the game 
 I knew I had to buy this game and my expectations were right. The auto save is very useful you 
 know how sometimes we gamers forget to save. 
  
  As time passed, I disliked the game more and more. The world is so big you get lost fast and it 
 feels so lonely that I never wanted to leave Megaton (town near the Vault) . Everywhere I went I 
 got shoot, bited, killed, ect.. I was starting the game and it seemed too difficult too handle. 
 The caps are really hard to get thus weapons and ammo too. Because of this I was killed numerous 
 times (no ammo, no good weapons) Don't get me wrong the game is good.. but there were bugs and 
 the game freezes a lot. Something that is not suppossed to happen by now. I was forcing myself 
 to play to make it worth it. 
  
  After playing again and giving it another shot, it got better it didn't seemed that hard but still 
 not that easy. I'm sure if you continue it'll get better. Oh, love the idea you can get your own 
 room on Megaton.
  
  I recommend you rent it first or wait some time for the prize to go down that's what I'm going 
 to do.
  
  Good:
  Graphics are too good.
  Story is creative and interesting.
  Prenty of Replay Value.
  Plenty choices to choose from. (good or evil)
  Save is useful since 
 you can have different ones. 
  
  Bad:
  The world is too big. You get lost fast.
  Too many enemies.
  Bugs and Freezes.
  Weapons, Ammo, Money, ect. Hard to get.
  Lonely and 
 Depressing World even with the characters that don't go that deep (no real personality)
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Toriko42
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 4, 2009 8:26 pm PT
Review:  Fallout 3 is the latest role playing game released by Bethesda. Like Oblivion though I wouldn't 
 consider it a true RPG. I'd consider it to be more of an action role playing game relying on simple 
 combat with some RPG elements. To say the least though, Fallout 3 is a vast improvement over The 
 Elder Scrolls Oblivion IV and it is also one of 2008's strongest RPGs. The world is fantastically 
 crafted, the quests are varied enough to keep things interested and the characters you meet and 
 interact with are some of the most interesting seen. The exploration aspect of this game is very 
 rewarding and even though the world is a wasteland there is still tons to be seen. The only true 
 faults in this game are the main story line and the myriad of bugs and glitches that perforate 
 the entire game. 
  
  Fallout 3 takes place in I believe 2277, correct me if I am wrong in a private message. You play 
 as a character your customize and design from birth, it can be yourself or a person you simply 
 made up. The gist of the story is your father goes missing one day from Vault 101 and the overseer 
 of your vault has gone mad. You have to escape and you embark on a quest to find your father. The 
 plot thickens along the way with the introduction of 'project purity' but I'll leave it at that. 
 The story is one of my main complaints of the game. It's actually pretty good at first and it advanced 
 along at a nice pace until the ending which felt really rushed. The ending to say the least is 
 not as good as it could have been. The quest though still offers some really great missions and 
 the final missions offer some of the biggest 'oh snap' moments I've ever seen. Setpiece battles, 
 massive explosions, and just overall epicness save the story from ruin in the end. 
  
  The sidequests are also very interesting in that they offer up a wide variety of objectives from 
 say defusing a nuclear bomb, to finding a fire ant queen, to making a wasteland survival guide. 
 The sidequests are abundant and often turn into little mini stories that can take up a good hour 
 or two of play time. Some of them are lame fetch quests but most of them are a ton of fun. 
  
  The story and sidequests would but nothing without the world though. The world in Fallout 3 
 is a blast to explore. Though at the beginning you have hefty traveling to do on foot eventually 
 you'll be able to travel around and keep foot travel to a minimum. There are tons of things to 
 find in the world though and many cities perforate the wasted lands. The characters are also really 
 cool and the dialogue interactions are great fun. The way you approach dialogue can often effect 
 various things such as quests, information, or just overall likeness toward you. It works extremely 
 well for the most part and Bethesda should be commended for having a really strong dialogue system.
 
  
  The gameplay of Fallout 3 is superb. The combat despite being somewhat clunky at times works really 
 well. VATS has become one of my favorite combat systems. Basically what it does is that when you 
 hit the right bumper button a screen opens up telling you your chances of hitting a certain limb 
 of an enemy. You can choose the points with action points so you don't get unlimited hits so to 
 speak. You then press 'a' when done selecting and watch the gory results. Its' never tiresome and 
 it never gets old. It works well and it succeeds at not making the game too easy which is largely 
 due to the action points system. The game also stays challenging due to a health bar which depletes 
 quickly, this keeps you on your toes and makes stimpacks a must have item. Combat in first person 
 with VATS also works well but I went into almost every situation with VATS cause it's that much 
 fun. 
  
  The RPG elements are here. You get skill points as a baby to put towards various attributes, you 
 can't change these till you get perks to add points but other then that you can't change them. 
 You can upgrade skills though towards various things like guns, bartering, speech, lockpicking, 
 etc. You also get to choose one perk per level which gives a special bonus. They all cater to different 
 play styles so it keeps the game really open. 
  
  My only complaint regarding the gameplay is the myriad of bugs. The game froze on me four times 
 while installed in my 18 hour play through. Most of the freezes happened in the first five hours 
 of playing right after I fast traveled but one happened when I entered VATS. There are also just 
 bugs that cause enemies to spawn in front of you, float, or other non important things. One quest 
 I encountered was broken actually but there are ways around it. This was the only bug that was 
 really annoying and got in my way. Everything else was mostly asthetic and just a minor annoyance 
 but it's still a problem that needs to be fixed. In a world as big as Fallout 3's though bugs are 
 almost a given. It has far less then Fable 2 though so if you dealt with those Fallout 3 will be 
 no problemo.
  
  The graphics in Fallout 3 look quite good. Character models are a bit iffy but the environments 
 are stellar. The game has a great realistic tone to it and the draw distance is absolutely amazing. 
 The game has a lot of good textures though I do recall some low-res textures. Some animations are 
 also a bit wonky but that is Bethesda for you. The game looks great overall but has some weaknesses.
 
  
  Where it doesn't fare well in graphics, Fallout 3 makes up for it in sound. The game sounds really 
 good. The ambience is great and the sound effects are really good. From the sound that pops up 
 when you get a new quest to the sound of a mini-nuke exploding in slow motion, you'll be in awe. 
 The voice acting is also really well done and some celebrities popped in this time around. Liam 
 Neeson is your father and Malcom McDowell is the president. These two do an excellent job and so 
 do the others. The radio also has a nice soundtrack consisting of Billie Holiday and other old 
 singers. It all works perfectly.
  
  Fallout 3 is a game you should try to play. It is a great achievement and has a lot of fulfilling 
 elements to it. It has great moral choices, excellent quests, a decent but lacking story line, 
 but of course great presentation (as per usual with the Fallout standard) . Though it's a bit on 
 the short side (18 hour with side quests) , it's still well worth the 59.99 and it is highly recommendable 
 to fans of all genres.
  
  Pros: Great presentation, excellent quests, great characters, excellent dialogue system, VATS is 
 a blast, great setpieces
  
  Cons: Story needed to be more fleshed out, lots of bugs and glitches, stiff animations
  
  Overall: 
 An excellent Action-RPG well worth your time and money.
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: WAG23
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 5, 2009 5:35 pm PT
Review:  I finally finished the game, not that i wanted to. To be honest, the main story was kinda shorter 
 than i thought. I was really dissapointed when i found out that i beat the game. Don't get me wrong, 
 this game is amazing and just so addictive, but people stay you can spend 50 hours on it. I did 
 a couple of sidequests and beat the main story and it took me about less than 20 hours. I was surprised. 
 Still, the story is very detailed and good and i haven't seen such a story since GTA IV came out. 
 Gears of War 2's story wasn't even that detailed and interesting. Kill Locusts and save the planet. 
 Whipdie-du! This has a lot of details and depth in it's story. Enough about the story. There are 
 actually more glitches in this game than i thought. There are lots of time when people are walking 
 and somebody gets in their way; they just can't move through and it just looks funny. There are 
 so many weapons in the game to choose from. Unfortunately, I didn't get all of them. That are lots 
 of things to do in the world of Fallout 3 including blowing innocent peoples' heads off, taking 
 narcotics, accepting wierdo quests, and it keeps you entertained the whole time and that is why 
 i was so dissapointed on finishing the game. This game is really gory and has a lot of innapropriate 
 language and content and it is not recommended for little kids. So parents, don't be stupid to 
 buy your kids this game. Buy it for yourself!! Anyways, i don't know why i don't have anything 
 else to say. It's just that way!! A perfect game. Go out and buy it. In fact, go out and buy it 
 RIGHT NOW!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mars_soldier
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 5, 2009 2:42 pm PT
Review:  Pros: You can do what ever you want ( You can blow up a town or you can save it, save a slave or 
 leave them to there doom it is all up to you.) , you dont need to aim with V. A. T. S., the world is 
 big, and lots of weapons, and it is alot like Oblivion.
  
  Cons: It is hard when you start because you do not have a lot of money, is a lot like Oblivion 
 but with guns.
  
  It is a great game and if you have the money for a game this is what I would get. Thanks for reading 
 and if you need to know some more stuff about what the game is like I went to http://fallout. wikia. com/wiki/Fallout_Wiki 
 for more data and no its not a spam websight. ( The reason I put a lot like Oblivion as a pro and 
 con because if you dont like Oblivion you might not like the game but if you do then you might 
 like it.) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: simpsons1fan
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 5, 2009 12:53 pm PT
Review:  When i first heard and saw of this game, it looked awsome. The nice graphics, the oblivion engine, 
 the nice aiming system, and plus, it was Fallout. But after playing, i was not to thrilled. When 
 i first put it in, and played through the young years, i was thinking it was going to be a nice, 
 fun, somewhat funny game. As i went on to the outside of the vault, my mind changed. The first 
 thing i thaught was "Oblivion today" I was right. This is exactly the same thing as Oblivion, with 
 a new map, story, and the aiming system. The aiming system im nothing satisfying, most of the time 
 it is quicker, and easier to simply shoot your target yourself. The aim system, you will miss alot 
 of shots, wasting bullets. And when using melee weapons, i found the aim system to do alot less 
 damage.
  
  Overall id give this game:
  graphics- 8.5
  sound- 9
  gameplay- 7
  fun- 5
  story- 7 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Myriddan
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 5, 2009 11:23 am PT
Review:  I've played through portions of the game with three different characters and I've changed my opinion 
 after each.
  
  First let me start off with the good things about the game. Like most Bethesda games the world 
 is immense and as such if you take the time to explore everything it can take up a large portion 
 of time. This provides good entertainment value for your money. Secondly, the visual design is 
 quite good, though you'll notice that structures get recycled a bit. All the dialogue is voice 
 acted which is a positive and a negative... Positive because you don't have to read every line 
 in the game, negative because most of the time it takes too much time to listen to it that you 
 read anyways and just skip past most of it. Combat is for the most part enjoyable no matter which 
 way you want to play... Melee, running and gunning, utilizing VATS, sneak attacks. A variety of 
 weapons gives you the choice to play as you see fit, though ammo for the best guns tends to be 
 hard to come by.
  
  As for the bad... Sadly the game has some glitches, including a very annoying graphical glitch 
 that will occasionally create large triangular blocks of color that you can't see through. Once 
 this happens the only way I've found to get rid of them is to save and then turn on and off the 
 Xbox. Saving and reloading does not work. Another problem lies in the fact that you progress through 
 the levels rather quickly if you explore everything meaning you can reach the level cap easily, 
 this is an even bigger problem if you up the difficulty since you gain more experience. (My third 
 character was level 5 before the blink of an eye, I expect to max out easily) Also both the SPECIAL 
 and Perk system are disappointing, most perks are useless and the SPECIAL attributes aren't of 
 much use (particularly Charisma) . 
  
  I found this game to be extremely easy even on very hard using only melee weapons, no healing items 
 or chems (except my first playthrough on normal, but that was because I was only using the 10 mm 
 pistol, I tend to horde weapons and ammo) . Now I'm not saying I don't die, because you will die 
 if accidentally disturb too many enemies or the wrong ones. Still, I don't deny that I enjoy this 
 game immensely and think it is definitely worth the money. I just wish that the perks, skills, 
 attributes, and level system were handled better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dj_pulserfan
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 4, 2009 11:28 pm PT
Review:  I'll admit it. I was skeptical when I heard Bethesda came into control of the Fallout license not 
 too long after Oblivion was released. I was afraid of them turning it into what many referred to 
 as "Oblivion with guns" and basically making an open world First Person Shooter. I can safely say 
 that if your a previous fan of the series you'll be highly satisfied at everything this game has 
 too offer you, whether a veteran or a newcomer Fallout 3 has something for everyone. 
  
  The game starts out with a narration done by Ron Pearlman (You've seen him in Hellboy or at least 
 it's commercials.) telling you about your character and the choices that will govern the future 
 of mankind. It's nothing too get excited about, but does set the game up for cutscene of your characters 
 birth. And this is where you customize your character you can customize it much like Oblivion, 
 albeit with less attention and countless beard & make up options. But there is a problem with this, 
 as there is a weird bug that keeps you from zooming in & out so you can see what your doing with 
 the customization nothing gamebreaking but it's a bit aggravating if your trying too make a character 
 that resembles you. But choose wisely, as what your character looks like makes the game generate 
 a Father that resembles your character.
  
  Afterwards you start flashing forward trough time toddler, child, teenager, adult. Learning and 
 experiencing new things at every stage it's really interesting cause not only do you age, the characters 
 in the vault do as-well, nothing major but it's nice too see that they paid attention too small 
 details developers overlook. When you reach adulthood you wake up a childhood friend and an alarm 
 system only too find out that your Father has left the vault and you follow in his footsteps. 
 
  
  The first moment you leave the vault you'll see a grand vista of post apocalyptic greatness. Broken 
 bridges, caters, boulders, cars, destroyed highways, shriveled up trees, hills, mountains, crumbling 
 buildings ranging from houses villages you name it, you'll a nuclear war version of it. And unlike 
 Oblivion Fallout 3 delivers the balance Bethesda is just now achieving with Oblivion of great looks 
 (Fallout 3 looks better) and fantastic frame rates. No matter what was going on, in the 45 hours 
 of gameplay (only one sideqest remains unfinished and not including how many times I died) I've 
 only come across 2 bouts of slowdown, and they aren't that bad either you might not even notice 
 it, but you will notice the occasional lock up last for about 2 seconds at most but when your fighting 
 and everything freezes it really breaks up the pace.
  
  The game is smaller than Oblivion, but makes up for it with the amount of locations (above & below 
 ground) . You can get around by walking or quick traveling too discovered locations. Now if may 
 seem like a pain when someone gives you a quest and next thing you know it's on a part of the map 
 with no quick travel destinations close too it, but don't worry unlike Oblivion the smaller size 
 works out in your favor and you'll come across so many new locations and interesting people that 
 the walk is nowhere near as long as the map makes it out too be. 
  
  Often I found myself distracted by hidden location I found that I'd spend more time trying too 
 learn about it then what I'm actually suppose too be doing. That small town might hold a major 
 sidequest, a great weapon or item that will come in handy, or maybe a deep secret you'll uncover 
 if you pook around the right places or ask the right questions. Never be afraid to talk to or bribe 
 a denizen of the wasteland, you never know where it could go. It's less Bethesda like and more 
 of a Bioware game when it comes too branching dialog paths which makes for interesting conversations 
 that range from deep & intelligent too depressing & moody. No two conversations are alike, which 
 is the first time I can say that about these type of games. You'll even hear a few voices from 
 Oblivion in here.
  
  The stat, perk & skill system are amazing. There's a perk that fits the character you wanna play 
 at almost every level up, there are a few weird ones that come up but nothing that ruins the experience 
 for you. Stats are there for anything you can think of in the wasteland, they can make sure you 
 can get lower prices from merchants to nailing headshots with a pistol. What's different about 
 Fallout 3's system from the classic system it uses is that you'll see noticeable differences at 
 every level. You can even use perks too upgrade skills should you feel the need to upgrade after 
 you've picked them early on.
  
  When it comes too combat the game doesn't disappoint. Think of it as Oblivion, meets Morrowind 
 with guns. Let me explain Oblivion's character movement, Morrowind's stat system (albeit less, 
 less punishing too early levelers) but all swords are replaced with guns. If you come into the 
 mindset of clocking headshots faster than a multiplayer Halo match time too shatter dreams. Fallout 
 3 is a rpg wrapped in a FPS, don't expect to nail headshots and expect someone too drop in a single 
 hit. You may do more damage, but you aren't taking their head off at first until you level up your 
 gun skills and unlock the bloody mess perk. And their isn't ammo flooding the streets you'll be 
 playing a game of resource management when it comes too guns and melee weapons.
  
  The Pip-Boy & V. A. T. S. system are great and they work together in the form of inventory management 
 and a HUD. V. A. T. S. is a way for you too handle firefights in a D&D style way, letting you pick 
 an area of the enemies body and having a chance of hitting them. It's extremely gratifying too 
 land a hit and watch it all play out in a slow-motion, despite what it looks like it never gets 
 old. Though I won't lie, ultraviolent deaths in slow motion won't be as cool as they first we're 
 and you'll be using V. A. T. S. as a way too fight strategically than just too see someone get blown 
 to Valhalla and back again. 
  
  Though a weird glitch that hasn't been patched yet is sometimes while your in V. A. T. S. you'll end 
 up getting stuck permanently and can't cancel it out meaning you have too restart your Xbox when 
 it happens. It's rare, but when it happens it's a pain to have to turn it off, turn it on, start 
 the game and watch the openings and load your game all over again.
  
  The pip-boy is a multi-purpose all in one device. It handles character condition, stat tracking, 
 weapons, minor game options & the map. It's a great system and fits with the future in the past 
 setting greatly. Though as you level up and acquire more items it becomes less organized and becomes 
 cumbersome, you'll get use too it but it's still a minor annoyance. 
  
  The games also has a weird sense of choice making & karma. It's more like Fable 2 in a sense. Sure 
 you could blow up a city, but for what purpose? You can give a bum water, but he doesn't do anything 
 but ask for more. They don't really affect the story at all cause it will still expect you too 
 do what's expected of you. It's interesting too see where those choices can lead too no doubt but 
 most the time there is no lasting effects other than some new dialog in the ending.
  
  Overall everything comes together in Fallout 3 the setting nails post-apocalyptia perfectly, has 
 fantastic gameplay & has fantastic dialog & interesting choices you can make. But a few bugs & 
 weak choice making keep it from reaching all it could've been. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ultradude2345
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 4, 2009 1:25 pm PT
Review:  SUMMARY
  
  
  Fallout 3 is the latest game to come from the brilliant minds of Bethesda. Branching off from its 
 predecessor Oblivion, Fallout 3 puts in a brilliant story, atmosphere, gameplay, and when put into 
 a shell is a masterpiece beyond comprehension. Fallout 3 takes place in the year 2077 in post-apocalyptic 
 Washington D. C. The U. S has been devastated by nuclear war, and to save it's citizens from utter 
 destruction, the government has put them in "Vaults", safe-houses deep in Earth's natural formations. 
 The whole plot is introduced well by a stirring intro sequence as soon as you start the game. For 
 those that really take the time to flesh out the story, you'll begin to see how deep it gets.
 
  
  
  STORY
  
  Fallout 3 begins with you as an infant. From this stage you decide your gender, age, and facial 
 appearance through "genetic projection". Like Oblivion, you can spend hours creating your character. 
 Unfortunately, your mom dies of cardiac arrest, leaving you alone with your dad. The game then 
 jumps a year to you being a toddler. This is when you learn how to move and interact with the world. 
 This is also when you decide your stats through a baby book "You're S. P. E. C. I. A. L!". Each letter 
 stands for a stat: Strength, Perception, Endurance, Charisma, Intelligence, Agility, and Luck. 
 Each stat affects different skills, actions, or the player. Strength allows the player to carry 
 more things and deal more melee damage whereas Intelligence makes you better at hacking and solving 
 problems. After deciding your stats the game jumps forward another 9 years to your 10th birthday 
 party. This is when you're introduced to the bread & butter of Fallout. You are introduced to the 
 Pip-Boy 3000, social interaction, guns through a special birthday present, and VATS. The Pip-Boy 
 is your radio, map, inventory, stat info, etc all in one. It takes the role of the journal in Oblivion.
 
  
  After your party and shooting practice the game jumps forward 6 more years. At 16 you're taking 
 your G. O. A. T test, which is basically Fallout's way of seeing what type of character you would 
 best be through sometimes silly questions. This whole system is run on skills. Skills are the most 
 important statistics of Fallout 3. Skills range from "Lockpicking" to "Small Guns". With skills 
 you can easily give your character specialties. You are able to pick 3 major skills which give 
 that skill a good boost in points. If the test doesn't satisfy you can always change it. After 
 the test, Fallout 3 really begins. Turns out Dad has somehow escaped the Vault, and the Vault Overseer 
 wants you in a body bag. Using the skills and techniques you learned, you have to escape the Vault 
 as well. It doesn't last long, but has you making a few tough decisions on the way to make it worthwhile.
 
  
  After escaping the impregnable Vault 101 you set off to find your Dad. Your pursuit takes you to 
 a city made from an aircraft carrier to the depths of wartorn D. C itself. It's a great story with 
 many monumental decisions to be made. It's one of the best parts of Fallout 3. Sadly, unlike Oblivion 
 there is no free play afterwards. The game "ends". Luckily, new downloadable content is already 
 on the way and promises a juicy batch of expansion.
  
  
  COMBAT
  
  Shooting is done rather well. You can fire in 1st or 3rd person with an over-the-shoulder view. 
 Holding down LT allows you to steady your aim for better accuracy at the cost of speed or to use 
 sights on scoped weapons like sniper rifles. It's quick and basic with no advanced mechanics. VATS 
 is truly a gem for Fallout. With a tap of RB you're in VATS. VATS is a targeting system run by 
 Action Points. With VATS you can select different body parts to fire upon. You are shown the chances 
 of a correct hit and cost in Action Points, which regenerate overtime. VATS can allow you to blow 
 away an entire squad in seconds if you're skilled enough. This also allows for decapitation and 
 dismemberment. At times it can even get humorous. With this said, it's not a kids game. VATS can 
 also be used wiith explosives and melee weapons although the targeting of specific parts isn't 
 applicable. It makes shooting way more enjoyable.
  
  
  PERKS
  
  Another statistical feature along with stats and skills are perks. Perks are special abilities 
 that are chosen at each level-up with a new tier unlocked every 2 levels. Most perks have ranks, 
 adding more to the RPG element. One perk makes enemies explode into gibs when killed while another 
 makes your limbs 50% as durable. Perks are fun and are enjoyable to experiment with. The level 
 20 perk tier definitely holds some of the best.
  
  
  GRAPHICS
  
  Graphically, Fallout 3 is amazing. While the color palette suffers the same as Gears of War, it 
 makes up for it with incredible detail and prowess. It can be eerie walking through bombed out 
 suburbs or stumbling across an abandoned supermarket. D. C has some of the best of it. Seeing the 
 destroyed Washington Monument and bombarded Capital can send shivers down a spine. Fallout 3's 
 "dungeons" come in the form of abandoned Vaults, infested caves, and haunting metro-stations. Every 
 bit of it is worth exploring. The only "bad" part is bland character models and the occasional 
 washed out texture.
  
  
  SOUND
  
  Sound is also great. Guns sound fantastic and sound effects are excellent. Some of the voice work 
 is a bit shabby but luckily this is only for some characters. And most of all, the same 5 voice 
 actors don't take up the whole population of Fallout. Liam Neeson does a great performance as Dad 
 and Malcom McDowell is excellent as the elitist President Eden.
  
  
  WRAP UP
  
  With all this said, Fallout 3 is one of the best games ever made. If you loved Oblivion or if you 
 love the occasional shooter, RPG, both, or if you need a good game, Fallout 3 should not be missed 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: redsam
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 4, 2009 7:36 am PT
Review:  I had put off playing Fallout 3 as I had spent about 150 hours completing every side question I 
 could in Oblivion and did not want to commit that kind of time. 
  
  My goal, focus on main quest and play it through. After about 33 hours or so, I finished and have 
 a very different opinion of the game now than first 5 hours or so.
  
  The first part of the game in the vault sets the pretext for story and gets most of the tutorials 
 out of the way. That being said, how you choose aspects of your character have a decided impact 
 on the rest of your game once out. On stepping out of the vault the game really begins.
  
  And for someone who played Elder Scrolls these first hours of the game seem like you are playing 
 Oblivion ES 2 as you recognize all the similar mechanics and dynamics in play, just he world looks 
 a impressively wasted by the the war that besieged it.
  
  After you get your bearings and get into the first few quests the story takes shape and for me 
 the game changed into Fallout from OES. 
  
  I played 4 of the sidequests along the way and did enough random wandering to get a taste of what 
 is out in the world and I have to say while not as filled with wonder in some parts as Oblivion, 
 the scale of the world is boggling. I am guessing I saw maybe 30% of it. And that 30% was a gas. 
 
  
  The combat systems are good, not great and are really dependent on how you have built your character 
 up as some of the fights can be a bit rough early on. The VATS combat system is fun and has some 
 of the best pure action moments and visual treats in the game. VATS as a whole feels a lot like 
 slow-mo in FEAR, as a way to pull yourself out of some bad s#@t, but a nice option.
  
  The Pip-Boy 3000 and the attendant screens to manage all of your resources and status take a little 
 bit of learning, but once you get the hang of it and have your D-pad programmed for each situation 
 works great.
  
  I can't say that I liked this better than Oblivion, but if you are put off by the scale of the 
 game I am here to let you know, if you want to focus on the main quests you can have a gas and 
 get it done in 30 hours or so.
  
  Highly recommended. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tktomo01
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 3, 2009 3:32 pm PT
Review:  You are born. You hear your mother and father, you see your grown up self. Then, your are one year 
 old. You can walk and sputter some baby gibberish, half of which is understandable. It is now you 
 choose your strengths and weaknesses. Suddenly, in a flash, you're ten, at your surprise party. 
 It is here you are given two most important gifts: the first is your Pip-Boy 3000, a watch-like 
 device which gives all the information on you, two maps, quest data, a place to store notes, an 
 inventory, and a radio. Next is your first BB Gun. The actual gun is only worth it just for memories, 
 but it grants you your first taste of combat, and you can choose between the standard FPS gunplay, 
 or the RPG lover appealing V. A. T. S. system, a selective targeting device. Now, you are sixteen. 
 It is now your first choice that will affect the world around you. The choice is between helping 
 a good friend named Anata by defeating the gang that is harrassing her, or forget her. Next, you 
 take a G. O. A. T. which determines where your best skills may be (these are more specific than the 
 S. P. E. C. I. A. L. one) . And then, the world begins to open up, litterally. The Vault is in chaos due 
 to your father leaving mysteriously. You ar granted a real weapon, and you have a choice between 
 killing everyone in the Vault or escaping the nice way. You are faced with a great gear shaped 
 door. It opens. You're free. Exiting Vault 101 is a spectacular thing. The great wastes, nay, the 
 world is shown to you for the first time in your entire life, as you have been stuck in an underground 
 nuke-proof vault to protect you from the Wasteland, courtesy of Vault-Tec.
  
  Beyond that, I cannot describe the rest of the game, as you, the player, will choose how it turns 
 out. That is the beauty of Fallout 3. However the game turns out though, its atmoshere, paranoia, 
 and streamlined story all create a heck of an RPG. Here is why.
  
  The world of The Capital Wasteland is big one. Fallout creates a great atmoshere that pulls you 
 in and makes you feel part of this fictional post-apocalyptia. But Fallout proves even a wasteland 
 can be unique in different areas and beatutiful all the same. The world of Fallout is a struggle, 
 from government, to justice, to economy, to well, just anything. The small colonies of humans throughout 
 the game are all quite different. Megaton is built around an atomic bomb that some of the citizens 
 actually worship. Everyone in Megaton is honest and decent, except a few select characters. By 
 contrast, Tenpenny Tower is a snooty rich people building in the middle of nowhere owned by a sly 
 and evil guy called Tenpenny. And another is Oasis, the only place in D. C. with actual trees. The 
 citizens worship a talking tree, which is really a mutated human who unfortunately had a tree grow 
 through his head. The economy is cleverly based upon caps, which is, what else, bottle caps. The 
 government is split in two factions: The Enclave and The Brotherhood of Steel. Both have a radio 
 station you can tune in with your Pip-Boy 3000. All of this creates a believable and eerie atmoshere 
 which is deserving of praise.
  
  The story is built around finding your father, and later defeating one of the evil factions. The 
 story has twists and turns, and is overall very moving and satisfying. The side-quests are also 
 a treat, because they too are moving and satisfying, if in shorter doses. Perhaps the best part 
 of these side-quests is the tounge-in-cheek humor of Fallout. While not part of any side-quests, 
 but rather an aftermath of one, a certain robot butler has some pretty good one-liners.
  
  Combat is great, although gunplay isn't the best it could be, due to the fact that the aiming redical 
 is always the same, and makes it harder to determine a weapons range. Still, the guns have a nice 
 variety, and even better if you add on to them and make new weapons. Melee works fantastic, but 
 there isn't much to say on that front. V. A. T. S. is perfect, as it gives you a sense of range through 
 percentage and a selective targeting system. If you only used V. A. T. S., it could kinda' end up 
 as a TBRPG (Turn-Based RPG) . Third person is a mess. Melee weapons work okay with it, but your 
 character appears to slide with his feet moving when he moves, rather than anything moderatly realistic, 
 and the camera is constantly shifting to move away from the scenery. Just like in Oblivion, it 
 sucks. Play First-Person.
  
  The wastes are gorgeous. The sound is awesome, and voice-overs do their job. Everywhere you go 
 finds you a new settlement, new enemies, and all kinds of stuff to scrounge, which you can sell 
 or use throughout your travels. Everything about the wasteland is great, except for the occassional 
 getting stuck between two rocks. Luckily, the save system frequently auto-saves, so no major problem 
 there. Another small issue is the very rare glitch, usually with bodies, but I had one case where 
 anything past five feet of me blacked out until I restarted my Xbox.
  
  Overall, Fallout 3 lives up to its predessecors in every way, if not surpassing them. No RPG fan, 
 shooter fan, or action/adventure fan should miss it. Anyone looking for atmoshere, story, and quirky 
 humor, should submit to Fallout 3's awesomness. 9.20/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mke112
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 3, 2009 3:12 pm PT
Review:  Just the best game there out there right now. Amazing.
  The Good:
  Just about everything. The graphics are fantastic. I love a game where there is so much freedom. 
 You can do just about anything you want to. That is pretty much how I play. I love to just roam 
 and explore. The story line is good, but the story lines never interest me all that much. The story, 
 in my opinion, is a side game. Here,, just walking around and exploring is a game in itself. Going 
 on little quests and so forth. the AI is pretty awesome. Much better that the stupid people that 
 filled morrow wind. I played that game and enjoyed it, but I hated the people in the game. They 
 all looked alike and they all just stood around in the same spot. In this game,, they have done 
 a good job of making a real civilization. Many of the people move around. Shop owners close their 
 shops and sleep at night or go get something to eat. The more real these games get, the better 
 they are.
  The bad:
  The only real and true bad I have is that you need a mattress/bed to sleep. Why cannot I not just 
 lay down in an alley or behind some rock and sleep. That is dumb. 
  I hate boss's in games, too. They're just so old. So,, there are a few bosses. Also,, I do not 
 like it when some creatures just stand in tunnels waiting for you. The giant scorpions are stupid. 
 Just plain stupid as are the centurion slug things. There is so much beauty in this game and things 
 like giant scorpions and centurion blobs or whatever just lower it to the level of an arcade game. 
 
  But look,,, I had to think of something to complain about.
  I would also like it if they made your character have to eat and drink or you would lose health, 
 and become disoriented and pass out of you went too long without sleep. Would add to game play. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Buzzcrow
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 30, 2009 4:50 am PT
Review:  Fallout 3... A name that came from nowhere to me. "What about 1 and 2?" I thought, but who cares 
 about them, in fact, why bother with any other RPG game at all? When I was first buying this, I 
 said to the man in Game "What should I get, Fallout 3, or GTA 4?" He replied, "Isn't it so obvious!?"
 
  
  There are so many choices to... choose from! Boy or girl, Good or Evil (and Neutral for once!) 
 all that stuff that an RPG is supposed to have and more. There is honestly too much to say! Some 
 of my personal favourites are hacking terminals, making home made weapons and of course using words 
 to make everything go my way.
  
  And who could forget combat? Not experienced much at first in Vault 101 and Megaton, mostly in 
 D. C, anyway, when you do get round to it you want more of it. Lots and lots of bloodthirsty combat, 
 nothing feels better than blowing of raider's heads! And with a revolutionary VAT system, you can 
 aim at the part of the body you want to go flying 30ft away! It may not sound like much to some 
 readers, but trust me, it is a lot better than it sounds...... 210%.
  
  It's only downside is it's main feature, The Pipboy 3000. It is an awesome device but bringing 
 it up every 3 seconds is really frustrating, especially because you do almost everthing through 
 it, heal, repair, move from place to place etc.
  
  For possibly years to come, you cannot beat Fallout 3 and it's awesomeness. I would recommend to 
 just about everybody who isn't squeamish! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lasalam
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 3, 2009 12:10 am PT
Review:  Fallout is one of my favorite series and I think this one is a great step for the series! I love 
 everything about the game, some people were bothered by the change of style to the game but i wasn't. 
 You really get a different experience depending on your actions of being good or evil or neutral. 
 *spoilers* I blew the heck outta megaton the first time beating the game and being the hero of 
 the town was equally satisfying on my second run. The VATS system is sick! I love being able to 
 watch my character blow the heads off of super mutants in slow motion! I highly recommend this 
 game. lkjdlfass dfas df adsf we fe gfrgfboifvo adsflaskjflsdfljs adlskfjowieonbv xmc, vnx, lsadklfjofis 
 sadasdlfkj dsfcnvskd dsdksn dkviddkd dkdnv dsk dkd d a. asdlkfjalsdfjl daslfjowijvoiwe dlaskfasdljfasld 
 dsalkjsdlvkja sadlkjasldjsdv lkdasjlaskdjfalsdkjf adlskfjalsdkfjasldjf 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SAURONSMACE
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 2, 2009 10:17 pm PT
Review:  As I read previews and looked through forums and such, I believed this game to be another oblivion, 
 a game I would play the hell till the end and put it back on my shelf and never pick it up again... good 
 thing I was wrong. This game is very fresh at every turn and I never expect whats lurking around 
 the corner. Unlike Oblivions repetitive caves and fortresses, a been there done that feeling, Fallout 
 brings out a new and fresh feel, even though you see the same pattern of destructive buildings 
 you just have to go in to see whats there, whereas Oblivion I knew what enemies and loot were probably 
 in store for me in there. 
  
  Story: Haven't played much yet so I can't comment on this section much.
  
  Gameplay: Excellent, 
 the V. A. T. S. system always keeps me entertained blowing limbs and such off. Gamespot tackles a 
 tiny problem as far as shooting goes, non V. A. T. S. mode as you could call it, but I found it not 
 as bad as what people say, sure its a poor hit/miss problem but I found I could normally kill my 
 enemies pretty fast regardless, so don't let that throw you off. The Pip Boy display is easy to 
 navigate through and everything is a breeze as far as Pip Boy navigations go. Everything fits in 
 perfectly.
  
  Graphics: This should cover all graphical aspects of the game.
  Landscape: good
  Weapons: good
  People and Enemies: Great
  Water: Great
  Buildings: Great
 
  Overall: pretty damn good
  One more comment on graphics... you can make your own weapons with the right blueprints, and whats 
 cool to me is that when you gather the parts to make them you can see where all your parts came 
 together.
  
  Music and Dialogue: Dialogue is fantastic, the bad thing is the characters dont move according 
 to the emotion they feel through the sound of their voice. That's it. Music is good. I love the 
 50's music and it saves me the hassle of looking through my music on my 360 and Enclave radio and 
 Galaxy News make me feel apart of the game. Selecting good or bad dialogue is cool and calling 
 a Ghoul a zombie is just plain funny.
  
  Content: To much! Content is amazing, and very fun to play. Outside the main story there are side 
 quests aplenty and gathering rare items, bobbleheads, kiling Behemoths, collecting blueprints, 
 whatever it is its very deep. 
  
  Replay Value: High. I found that this game really has a neat evil/good system, which is why is 
 give this game High for replay. You can select good dialogue and do good things or be bad and say 
 bad things and everything inbetween. Character creation helps even more by allowing you to pick 
 perks and such every few levels. Which gives you the motive to play again and try out new perks.
 
  
  Overall this game is very fun and fresh. Whether I'm eating dead remains with my cannibal perk 
 or listening to my butler robot telling me a funny joke, I have fun. This game is great and highly 
 recommend it.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fone_Bone
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 2, 2009 9:35 pm PT
Review:  Fallout 3 while having it's flaws, is a great game. It's not a revolutionary game, but it does 
 provide well over 100 hours of deep game play. There are tons of great characters and many, many 
 places to explore. The beginning of the game may be a little bit slow, but once your character 
 has been somewhat established throughout the Wasteland, the game becomes an overwhelming force. 
 Every gamer who hasn't played this game, must give it a go. The weaponry is also a key point in 
 this terrific game. Schematics, found in The Wasteland will allow you to build your own weapons, 
 such as a railway rifle which shoots railway spikes, resulting in body parts being stuck to walls 
 by huge spikes, and the Rock-it Launcher, which shoots junk. Along with the V. A. T. S targeting system 
 which allows you to pinpoint body parts and attack them specifically (which makes for so many satisfying 
 moments of watching bullets enter an enemy's head and having it explode) . There's no other game 
 that makes blowing up a city with a nuke look so good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spacemonkey086
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 2, 2009 7:13 pm PT
Review:  Ive never played the other fallout games, and ive heard a few sites give this game a mediocre review 
 because it did't "stick to the formula". If thats true, youre just letting youre expectations get 
 in the way. The game has switched developers so take it for what it is. This is not Oblivion with 
 guns. This is the best RPG of the year and personally I think its GOTY.
  
  This game has all the core elements of an RPG, weapon customization, special skills, many various 
 and interesting side quests, massive ammounts of loot and what seems to be more and more rare in 
 RPGs nowadays it has an epic stoyline. This game can be brutally violent especially with the bloody 
 mess perk and although the grapics can be a little jagged they are still far and above Oblivion. 
 VATS finally makes the right blend of shooting and turn based combat and is very enjoyable. The 
 story line has multiple paths based on karma and being evil or good will also have an effect on 
 your character. You can spend well over 50 hours exploring in this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: b-at-o-rez
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 2, 2009 5:57 pm PT
Review:  F U C K you flairabc! first of all: do you know there is such thing as fast travel, second of all: 
 you get the bar longer by getting more AP, and third of all: what do you mean animations? The NPC's 
 scripts or expressions? They are two different things but they are both amazing in fallout 3. You're 
 like one of those people who just make it out of the vault and stop playing, i bet you rented fallout. 
 For anyone who is looking for a game with hundreds of hours of playing time and something you can 
 play over and over without it getting boring this is you're game, excellent story, amazing landscape 
 and really good karma system. The freedom and realism in this game raises the bar and there will 
 not be another game as good as this for a long time so I suggest getting fallout 3. It is seriously 
 the best game i have ever played with a mixture of RPG/FPS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: llTylerll
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 2, 2009 3:47 pm PT
Review:  Fallout 3 for Xbox 360 is a great game. If your like me you absolutely loved oblivion and had played 
 over 50+ hours and was most likely excited when you heard fallout 3 would be made by bethesda. 
 Was it Worth the Wait?.... Yes it was definately. for starters the charcter leveling and custimization 
 is great you can truly play the game however you want, if you played oblivion the lvling is quite 
 the same except this time you get xp for completing quests , killing things and such and no longer 
 do you have to spend hours running or etc to get that certain skill up, in my opinon fallout greatly 
 improves lvling system. The vats system is great and fun and is what makes this game different (not 
 too much) from oblivion. the gameplay and story are spectacular and I am really excited to see 
 what bethesda has in store for dlc with 3 already announced you know this game is good. enemies 
 in this are cool whether your bashing there head in with a bad or plain old shooting them. the 
 gunplay is great and enemies are quite varied with some good A. i. weapons are great and have a 
 powerful feeling. Overall Great game Check this out on all three supported systems.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Andynator_FIN
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 2, 2009 5:50 am PT
Review:  The game is good. If you are only comparing it to the earlier Fallout games and thinking this as 
 Oblivion in future and with guns it might be disappointing. I had great time playing it but the 
 negative things were that it was maybe too short. Remember to do side quests so you get more gaming 
 hours. As said many times it has bugs. From some bugs you can get benefits but in worst bugs you 
 can't complete missions (Big Town robot defense) .
  
  The world of Fallout sucks you in. It really is a own world to explore and fight in. Too bad that 
 soon it starts to repeat itself. The places are too similar to each others. Game includes some 
 little games when you pick a lock or hack a computer. These are interesting add-ons.
  
  As a Fallout fan I liked the game very much. It really isn't waste of money. But still I expected 
 more. Maybe weapons or map design didn't satisfy me enough. But I sure liked it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hiccup87
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 1, 2009 9:21 pm PT
Review:  I got this game for Christmas and as such only have about 20 hours, but I plan to keep going and 
 starting over again and again. I cannot believe Gamespot's rating, it is ridiculous this game deserved 
 a 10 (on their scale, that is, I never rate anything a 10) I would give this a 9.89 out of 10 if 
 I could. The VATS system does not make the game too easy, as I first thought it would. The game 
 has so much to do and explore and so many different courses of action. The character creation and 
 level-up systems are great. Perks are good fun and very useful. So...
  
  Pros: Good and Bad sides are both equal in benefit, usually; Huge world; encourages more than one 
 playthrough; VATS; funny as hell; 5 difficulty settings; lots of little details; characters have 
 depth; so does story; addicting; customizable HUD and pip-boy colors
  
  Cons: Addicting; huge world can make for huge WALKS (ugh) ; some piles of rubble seem like they 
 are specifically placed to block your movement. grrr; At the earlier levels it can seem like every 
 quest is too hard for you, but that only lasts a little while
  
  9.89 out of 10
  
  
  My tip: Invest in getting a lot of skill points, don't take charisma too seriously 
  
  :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: YaMissed2
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 1, 2009 8:45 pm PT
Review:  
  Review : Fallout 3 (360)
  
  The Elder Scrolls 4: Oblivion was one of the reasons that I wanted to get an Xbox 360 and when 
 the creators of the Elder Scrolls games Bethesda studios acquired the license to the Classic Black 
 Isle Studio's Fallout series I was ecstatic, since I absolutely loved Oblivion, and though I had 
 never really gotten to far into Fallout 1 or 2, I loved the setting and the Into Video to both 
 games and if you mixed both of those together, well to say the least I came in with high expectations. 
 Will Fallout 3 Live up to my expectations, or will I wish I had spent my money elsewhere?
  
  Story :
  
  Your Character pops out of your mothers womb, and you are thrust into the world 
 of Vault 101, and underground fallout shelter 20 years after an alternate universe WW3 wipes out 
 civilization as anyone knew it, and the rules of the Vault are simple no one enters no one leaves, 
 and no one questions the vault Overseer. Flash forward 16/17 years and your father bolts from the 
 Vault no apparent reason and you must escape before the Overseer tortures you to find out why, 
 and then you need to find your father to find out why he escaped.
  
  Graphics: 
  
  Well many will look at Fallout 3 and immediately think that this is Oblivion gone post-apocalyptic 
 with guns, which would be accurate since this is using the same engine as Oblivion, but that does 
 not make this game any less beautiful, massive in scale, or amazing in vision, since as with Oblivion, 
 Fallout 3 looks great, the world is massive and unlike Oblivion most the areas look different and 
 unique, and that includes people as well you wont be finding too many people that look exactly 
 alike, though the create a character really needs some working on since you are almost guaranteed 
 to make one ugly son of a gun if you make a guy, or a very plain woman.
  
  Music & Sound:
  
  Music wise the game has a good natural soundtrack, but since this is the 
 modern world, you really won't spend much time listening to it, seeing as there are radio stations 
 about for you to listen to, and it provides a much more compelling music choices to listen to on 
 your Pip-boy 3000. that is relative though, in this alternate world technology progressed a little 
 slower but a little more radically, the cold war was with China not Russia, and as our culture 
 had grown we were stuck in the 1950's even though the year in Fallout 3 is set in is 2077, and 
 so the radio stations available are limited to a few selections, Enclave radio if you don't mind 
 hearing American Propaganda all the time along with the patriotic music that goes with, GNR which 
 plays classic show tunes and an occasional radio show, and Agatha's station that you unlock in 
 a mission that plays classical violin. Normally that would be fine but when the day is done the 
 station you will find your self listening to the most is GNR and sadly the licensed soundtrack 
 wears thin after a day or so of playing the game, and I would have liked to have had some more 
 songs, I did notice that they had the theme song from the original Fallout game as one of the songs 
 on GNR's play list, but was saddened to find out that they couldn't get the theme song from Fallout 
 2, and I would have liked some more variety like maybe some Gershwin, and a few more show tunes 
 like maybe "Singing in the rain" or something to add a much broader mix to the game. The voice 
 acting has improved as one would have hoped so you now won't be running into so many people sounding 
 alike
  
  Control & Game play:
  
  Fallout 3 plays almost exactly like Oblivion which is a good thing for those of us that loved Oblivion's 
 control scheme, and the guns do spice things up for the game play, and in a nod to the classic 
 series the VATS system from the original fallout series makes its appearance, and you will find 
 that it is necessary to mix up using the VATS, and just normal run and gun game play, though the 
 game can be played either way. Run and gunners will find that they are more likely to hit their 
 target in VATS (something I found it had in common with Fallout 2 which I went back and played 
 after playing Fallout 3) , and VATS users will find that they may not always kill their target in 
 VATS, and low action points will force you to finish off your target without VATS.
  
  Design & Fun Factor:
  
  There is almost something primal and enjoyable about taking out an 
 enemy, and when you take out one in the VATS you get to see and absurdly high amount of blood and 
 gore to almost comic levels, and if you get an upgrade you can up the violence even more, or you 
 can have a mysterious stranger pop up to finish off a random foe you failed to kill, you would 
 think it would get old but it doesn't. Bethesda Software has once again made a master work with 
 Fallout 3, and while there are still a few bugs they won't detour you from enjoying this game, 
 and will likely be addressed in the upcoming patch Bethesda just announced, if there is anything 
 that might detour someone it is the somewhat disappointing ending, and while I will not go into 
 details here since that would require spoilers you can read my feelings here, warning spoilers 
 ahead! But disappointing ending aside the game it's self is so broad and engrossing that one may 
 not even ever see the end and if you end the game, there is still so much to do there is almost 
 a guarantee that you missed something that you could have done to the D. C. wasteland when you do 
 beat the game.
  
  Fallout 3 is almost everything I had hoped it would be, and it is well worth your time and money! 
 I give Fallout 3 very enthusiastic thumbs up!
  
  Fallout 3 (360) :
  
  Pros:
  
  Addictive game play
  
  Good graphics
  
  Good sound
  
  Must play for RPG fans
  
 
  Might actually convert people that hate RPG games
  
  
  Cons:
  
  Radio Stations get old after a while
  
  Ending is kind of disappointing
  
  A few glitches 
 still remain
  
  Character Creation needs some tweaking 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigd575
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 1, 2009 7:14 pm PT
Review:  I've heard about Fallout before I've even played a little bit of the first one at my friends house 
 on his computer but other than that I have basically little to no experience with the Fallout series. 
 But I have played the Elder Scrolls series before. And I really liked it I heard people say that 
 Fallout 3 was kind of like Oblivion and it didn't get bad review so I thought why not get it so 
 I did.
  
  I really like RPGs and Fallout 3 is a great one it's a lot of fun and I like it a lot more than 
 I did Oblivion. The story to the game is good but that's one thing that I thought could have been 
 better than it actually was. The game looks great you'll notice a good draw distance just to name 
 something you'll notice the Washington Monument it just looks fantastic. There's just so much other 
 stuff to that look really great you'll really notice them when you playing through the game. The 
 quality of the voice acting is also done nicely so that's something else you'll notice that has 
 been done real well.
  
  Overall Fallout 3 is a fantastic game there really isn't many flaws to the game. A lot of people 
 say it should have been Game of the Year. Also a lot of people that don't like RPGs like Fallout 
 3 so there's a reason to at least give it a try if you don't like RPGs. For the final score I give 
 it a 9.7
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: blob88
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 1, 2009 11:38 am PT
Review:  i got the game at Christmas along with many other games and was very disappointed........ that 
 i couldn't play any other games because this is so addictive!!!!!!!! this game truly is amazing, 
 i never imagined that the post apocalypse could be so exiting. this game is worth 10/10 on all 
 levels. when my friend first told me about this game, i thought it might be fun to play for 30 
 minutes or so and then i would just get bored. then one of my other friends got the game and talked 
 to me over Xbox live about it, then i had made up my mind, i put it on my list and eagerly awaited 
 chrimbo. Great game!!!!
  one fantastic thing about thae game is that you play it in your own style, you can be good, evil, 
 or un-biased, most quests have multiple ways of solving them, and its worth trying them all out. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kurganwins
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 1, 2009 8:16 am PT
Review:  This is a good game, so don't get me wrong, but it focuses heavily on running around and shooting 
 things, (don't we have enough shooting games as it is) , than storytelling. And what storytelling 
 is available is sometimes very contrived. My main problem is there are so many story ideas that 
 just slip through the cracks or just dropped short from what they could be, especially with regards 
 to the companions.
  
  More depth to the companions storyline would be great, as it is the companions are basically very 
 generic. Fawke is the most interesting of the companions. I would like to see the companions have 
 a little more design to them where they have stories and missions that need to be completed in 
 the game. At the same time your companions seem to have no mind for combat and always rush in to 
 the heat of the battle... poor Dogmeat suffered from this terribly and many times killed for this. 
 I don't remember Dogmeat in the past games being as stupid nor as easy to kill. Maybe a bit more 
 control of how companions act in combat would be good, (most people form a game plan before they 
 enter into combat, not just run headlong into it) , but yet still maintain a sense of free-form 
 for them... not an easy task to do.
  
  SPOILER ALERT
  
  
   
   
   
   
  The end storyline was way to simple, and very lackluster. Not only that, but they injected a storyline 
 that could have been possibly more interesting. They talked about the Outcast Brotherhood and IMHO 
 it would have been more fun to have had missions leading to joining the Outcast and the Brotherhood 
 back together (if only to fight the Enclave) than to stand behind a big giant robot that killed 
 most everything while you could stand back cleaning your plasma rifle.
  
  Overall good game, just hope Bethesda focus a bit more on the story-lines, while there are some 
 good stories in the game, to many just fall to the wayside, and the end mission way to simplified.
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: heather889121
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 31, 2008 5:44 pm PT
Review:  This game has a few bugs, somethings work out in the end, none the less. While other times, you 
 can't sell or finish a quest. Many choices (good, neutral or evil; character looks; side quests 
 or straight to the story line; skills and perks; and etc.) . In my opinion, creative. Graphics are 
 good, detailed somewhat (not in a bad way though) . Awesome and very addicting. Worth playing or 
 at least trying. Survival of the fittest (when it comes to fighting 5 or more at a time) . Easy 
 money. And make sure you save. Auto saving messes up sometimes (from personal experience and friend 
 experiences [not using the same X BOX or video game disc] ) , or you could die when you least expect 
 it (such as when you just leveled up and didn't save for the last 3 hours) . At the very least, 
 it is very fun and worth staying up to play! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kylewpg
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 31, 2008 2:43 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay.
  The game play is awesome. Its a RPG with alot of action also alot of walking around. The gun combat 
 could use some work its pretty hard to aim at points.
  The melee gameplay is great. Finding stuff to survive is pretty fun anything you find can help you 
 in the game. The game can freak you out sometimes to.
  
  Graphics.
  The graphics are amazing. The wastelands have alot of detail and look great. Player models can use 
 some work but still look good. The detail to the city are great and well done.
  
  Sound.
  The sound to is pretty good the music sets a good tone to the game. Gun sounds are good. The sound 
 is flawless.
  
  I say get this game its the best game of 2008. So get it and i can say now you will love it .The 
 game is hard as hell though. At points you will get mad at the game but thats part of the fun haha. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: keritio
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 31, 2008 12:57 pm PT
Review:  The game is simple and the world is really big, it gives you 100 hours of gameplay of course just 
 not by playing the story... The game has many things to do but in my opinion it would be great 
 to have co-op, this is a most have! I love the enviroment too! The mysteries! The things to find! 
 The.. nuclear bombs? I love this game! 
  
  You can customize your character to your likings, the way he/she learns, the way he speaks, good 
 or evil, the story is what you decide! If its either rigging that nuclear bomb or helping diffuse 
 it, it's all your choice, you will just love exploring this world.
  
  I never played oblivion but i heard this is like oblivion with guns if that is true then i am totally 
 buying oblivion.
  
  
  MAY CONTAIN SPOILERS BELOW!
  VVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVV
  
  Protip: Find that gun that shoots 8 mini nuclear bombs at once
  Also get that awesome alien gun 
 and Abrham Lincolns revolver
  :D
  Awesome game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Awsomecal
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 31, 2008 9:40 am PT
Review:  Fallout 3 was the highly anticipated game of 2008. It had strong competition from other titles 
 such as Gears of War 2 and Fable 2. However, in my opinion, this game truely was Game of the Year.
 
  This game was created by the same folks who gave us the amazing Oblivion, yes i'm talking about 
 Bethesda. Bethesda are famous for focusing on one project at a time and putting there all into 
 a game. Fallout 3 is no exception. You can see that they put alot of time and effort into this 
 game. 
  
  Graphics 9/10
  The graphics and attention to athmosphere in this game are amazing. From the destroyed buildings 
 to the sympathetic characters. The many locations throughout the map each have their own feel and 
 style. Example.... Megaton and Rivet City. Megaton is a small settlement build from the remains 
 of broken down machines. The buildings here are well designed and you really do get a gritty "survivor" 
 type feel from the design. Rivet City on the other hand is a massive settlement contained within 
 a massive war ship. Cool.. heh. 
  However character animation could have been bit better and 3rd person mode needs improvments. 
 
  
  Story 9.5/10
  The basic story is your character on a journey across a wasteland to find your father. Sure it 
 sounds a bit cliched, but trust me, the contrast in the quests which lead you to your father are 
 amazing. Each quest usually has you perform a task for a person, who in turn will give you info 
 about your father. This gets a little boring (i stress LITTLE) but the quests after you find your 
 father are amazingly put together. Personally, i havn't finished the game yet, but so far the story 
 is superb. Characters you meet along the way are diverse and very interesting, and some of them 
 provide side quests. The side quests are really well done. When you complete a quest you really 
 do feel fufilled. Usually there is a good and bad way of doing these quests.
  
  Gameplay 10/10
  However, its how you operate the game that makes it so rewarding. For the most 
 part, your V. A. T. S, weapons and decisions will steer the cource of events through handy contexct 
 sensitive button presses. Ducking into the shadows turns the talk option into pick-pocket, while 
 mini-games present the challenge of a locked door or terminal. Combat is handled through real time 
 or with V. A. T. S which brings an element of real time strategy to the game. It allows strategic 
 targeting. Its straight forward and it works, while rewarding you with some sweet, 3rd person murder 
 shots. However, get one thing straight, Fallout 3 is NOT a FPS. Its an alternative way of presenting 
 RPGs to the current generation. 3rd person view is there to see how you customized your charater, 
 but is not a valid way to play the game. The level up perks ensure character growth beyond dishing 
 out skill points and the dark humor provides a reprieve from the depressing wasteland.
  
  Overall (not average) 9.5/10
  Any pre concieved notion of this post-apocalypto should be shelved. 
 Fallout 3 is not another Gears of War or Halo (although both amzing games) . It's rare that a game 
 can hit the mark in so many different and often conflicting areas. Fallout 3 offers freedom without 
 sacrificing a focused story. It delivers fantastic combat without forgoing a deep role-playing 
 system. The characters you meet are engaging and oftentimes hilarious without feeling out of place 
 in this harsh world. The game has a few flaws -- most of them technical -- but it's a case where 
 the whole is greater than the sum. It's a fantastic game with incredible atmosphere that offers 
 fun in so many different ways that you're almost sure to get hooked. This is one of the best games 
 you'll play this year.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Savage-23
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 31, 2008 9:34 am PT
Review:  This game was very impressive. The world was so big and diverse with many characters to interact 
 with and shoot up. This is about as good as it gets in my mind. You can decide to make the game 
 long or short it is up to you and how many side missions you take on. The world is well developed 
 and more expansive than you could ever hope for. The developers really put out a game to be proud 
 of with this one. The shooting sequences are unique and fun. It is not a first person shooter flavor 
 but it is fun none the less. You develop your character to your own liking as you gain experience. 
 So many weapons and options. I have been playing it for a while know and I still feel like I have 
 a lot to learn within the game. Many developers get caught don't deliver when they get overly ambitious 
 but they delivered on this one with out a doubt. I highly recommend this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: flairabc
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 31, 2008 7:55 am PT
Review:  it was a brilliant idea in theory , a huge open world , your own path through it and easy to use 
 targeting system but each one of these has major flaws such as the open world which is impressive 
 and huge but how are you meant to get around without spending 20mins getting from place to place 
 which at first is fun but gets boring fast, next is your own path through it which is fun but it 
 means that there is no focus on one person which is why the peoples animations are so bad because 
 there not focusing on 1 path and a few characters next is the targeting system which is fun to 
 watch your enemy's get destroyed but u should be able to use that all the time. the scale is the 
 thing that drags fallout down and they should of done a more linear game
  OVERALL: a decent game, a rent but if you are a die hard oblivion or fallout a fan its a must buy 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Raider8784
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 31, 2008 12:41 am PT
Review:  I'm new of the series of Fallout although I'd heard of it before from some friends. I was however 
 very intrigued with this game hearing it was from the same developers of Oblivion which I absolutely 
 loved. I eagerly awaited it's release and after getting it at midnight I can say that without a 
 doubt Fallout 3 delivers on all its hype! Although some might label it "Oblivion with guns" I say 
 is that such a bad thing? The answer is no, it's a great thing. However FO3 is much more than Oblivion 
 with guns, its an entirely immersive role-playing game that you may find yourself lost in for days. 
 There's so much to do in this game it can be mind boggling, and the attention to detail is amazing. 
 The vats system is sweet and it never gets old; although the first person shooting is a bit clunky 
 and could have been done a lot better. The story is also a good ones and there's just so many ways 
 you can play this game, everyone should be satisfied. The only thing is that you might find yourself 
 bored with the game after playing it thoroughly once or twice, but with down-loadable content FO3 
 is one to come back to time and time again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarxPhil
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 30, 2008 2:10 pm PT
Review:  It's been a long while since The first two Fallout's were released. Now that Fallout 3 is out everyone 
 is extremely excited. Fallout 3 introduces a great story with awesome characters and backgrounds. 
 The combat is simple and perfect, with VATS you are able to pin point the gun you have one the 
 body of an enemy and do some serious damage to it. The graphics are very well done to, Bethesda, 
 which created Oblivion mind you, has great attention to detail and you can see they have made a 
 really solid title with there graphics and physics engine. Anyone that has an Xbox 360 should get 
 this game it is very worth while and has tons of replay value. This game own. Now remember that 
 this game is not for the children since there is lots of blood and gore in the game. So if you 
 have any kind i suggest they don't watch while you play or while anyone else plays. This game really 
 holds its own against such great 360 games such as Gears of War 2 (see my GOW2 review!!) . Overall 
 its a great game that shouldn't be missed. If you are unsure about getting it i hope this review 
 has convinced you or at least pointed you the right way. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mj-Healy
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 30, 2008 10:26 am PT
Review:  Fallout began as an isometric RPG game back in the mid-90's on the PC. Betheseda Softworks recently 
 pick up the rights to bring out a new Fallout game. Fallout 3 is it. Fallout 3 looks nothing like 
 the first two games in the series as it is viewed from the first (or third) person. This makes 
 the game feel a lot like Betheseda's most recent game: The Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion, which is 
 certainly a good thing.
  
  Fallout 3 is set in the post-apocalyptic Washington D. C in the 23rd century. Washington is now 
 a wasteland, Capital Wasteland as the game describes it. You begin the game litreally from your 
 birth into Vault 101, one of the few underground dwellings designed to keep people off the Wasteland. 
 The game flashes forward through a few tutorials but then when you are 19, your Dad is the first 
 person to leave Vault 101. After getting into trouble with the Vault Security Guards, you leave 
 the Vault to search for your Dad which is where the game really begins.
  
  Throughout your adventure into the Capital Wasteland, you can make decisons in the game which affects 
 your karma. In other words if you play nice, the NPC's will act nicely toward you and possibly 
 give you free gifts. If you want to be a badass, the NPC's will act hostle toward you and if they 
 don't give you a free gift e. g. Assault Rifle, if you are evil you can just kill them and take 
 it anyway. Like for example, very early in the game you can decide to blow up the town of Megaton. 
 Of course if you do it, you get bad karma and a nice explosion. If you don't, all the townpeople 
 will think your a hero. The karma system works well and gives you many, many possible endings to 
 the game.
  
  V. A. T. S in action
  The actual quest system in the game is straight up from Oblivion. Though in Fallout 3 there are 
 less quests, but they are longer. When it comes to actually killing something there is a system 
 called V. A. T. S. You just press RB, time stops, you pick a certain part of the body to shoot and 
 then you fire. Of course you can't do this to everything in the game as you have a finite number 
 of Action Points which repleinish over time. The V. A. T. S is a throw back to Fallout games of the 
 past and its good but not perfect. The shooting when not using V. A. T. S does feel a bit wierd. While 
 its not bad, it still feels it's tough to aim and shots at the enemy don't always feel right.
 
  
  Early in the game you are given the Pip-Boy 3000 wrist device. This handles all of your inventory, 
 shows stats etc. The stats in the game are divided up by S. P. E. C. I. A. L. You can have up to ten 
 points for each of the letters, (S for strength, L for Luck) these in turn determine your skills 
 such as Small Guns, Explosions and Speech. You can also pick three of these skills as your main 
 skills and so they recieve a bonus number of points. Each time you level up (the max is level 20) 
 you can pick a perk. This include things like stat bonuses and adding one point to one of your 
 S. P. E. C. I. A. L abilites. Overall the skills, S. P. E. C. I. A. L, perks work really well and are well 
 balanced. As I mentioned above, Pip-Boy also handles your inventory. This where one of the problems 
 from Oblvion shine. You see nearly all items in the game have a weight. You can only hold so many 
 items until you become over-emcumbered and walk very slowly. The problem is that the weight maximum 
 is just way too low. Constantly through the game you have to manage your items constantly which 
 takes away some of the fun.
  
  Fallout 3 is not as long as Oblivion, but it is definetly no slouch. I finished in about 27 hours, 
 but there were still many locations to be found and a handful of side quests. I probably won't 
 even find this side quests unless looking at a guide. A lot of the game can be skiped though. Once 
 you find a location you can just fast travel there, as in Oblivion. If you were just, to stick 
 to the main story, you could finish the game in a few hours, but why would you want to do that? 
 The game world its self is very, very big. When they say Capital Wasteland they mean wasteland 
 as a lot of the world is just nothing. Though every interior location looks different in it's own 
 way exepct for the Metro tunnels which are quite basic.
  
  Fallout 3 is a beautiful looking game. It may all be brown and green but the games draw distences 
 just goes on and on for miles. Explosions look nice, textures are detailed, character models look 
 very well (not so much when they talk) and just looking into the distence seeing the sun glowing 
 off the Washington looks wonderful. There is some slow down but its rare and nothing too serious. 
 Also some objects on the ground flicker for no reason and there is just a hint of texture pop up 
 but apart from that it is definetly one of the best looking games of the year.
  
  Fallout 3 with all it's goodness, there a lot of small problems. Nothing that destroys the gameplay 
 but still annoy a bit. First off the game's ending is not all that good. Though there are differnet 
 endings to an extent, the game still has the basic ending. Also when the game ends, it ends. As 
 in you need to load and old save or start a new game. Since Fallout 3 is a lot like Oblivion it 
 does share some of it's faults. For example, the auto save system can destroy your save. If you 
 fast travel or go through a door, the game saves. Which can end up in some awkard outcomes. So 
 good advice is to have a back up save ready. Also the character moving animations are a bit off. 
 NPC's will randomly bring into sprits and even the walking looks a bit floaty. The third person 
 view is complete rubbish. The aiming is tough and your characters movement is very off.
  
  Even though it has a few flaws, Fallout 3 is one of the best games of the year. All of its small 
 problems are outwayed by the immersion, the graphics, the quests. If your in the mood for a long 
 game to keep you entertained look no further than Fallout 3.
  
  Pros:
  
  * Amazing visuals
  
  * Fun quests
  * Very long
  * Bodies expolding are great
  
  * It's 
 so immersive
  
  
  Cons:
  
  * Some wierd animation
  * Inventory is not perfect
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: bishopphoto
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 30, 2008 6:53 am PT
Review:  Fallout 3 Spoilers are Ahead..
  
  Ok, so I am a little over 40 hours deep into this and I feel like best case scenario I am 1/3 done 
 with all of what I can do in the game (I am currently between good and neutral, in other words, 
 good but I steal things I need/want) . This game is literally the largest (not in terms of hours 
 or size even, but just in depth) I have ever played. And it is incredible.
  
  Pros: Great voice acting; beautiful expansive locations; incredible and scary music; great level 
 of difficulty as I find myself dying a lot; great and complex enemies; good AI; mutliple choices 
 for many conversations with large ramifications (in children of the atom, you can save or nuke 
 Megaton for example) ; and everything else you can think of;
  
  Cons: NPCs are modeled after people you want to talk to, so in towns that can get slightly confusing; 
 autosave is only between asleep and awake or entering a new space, so after wandering around, SAVE 
 or risk losing time/swag/whatever; what is life after FO3 going to be like? I don't know if I am 
 ready to find out.
  
  Buy it, Play it, ENJOY IT!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TFrieden0928
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 31, 2008 7:01 pm PT
Review:  When Fallout's original publisher had shut down, millions of gamers were crushed by the fact that 
 one of their beloved franchises would never see the light of day again. Although I had never played 
 either of the two previous entrys in the series, speculation is, that they were good. Honestly, 
 if I had the chance to play either of those titles, I would gladly do so, just because my experience 
 with Fallout 3 has been like no other game in a while. If Fallout fans had one wish in the world 
 it would to see the rebirth of the series. Thankfully, Betheseda has simply done the favor. What 
 better time then now, since Times have changed, and consoles now have enough power to deliver High 
 Quality Gaming that was talked about 10yrs ago. Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion is currently my favorite 
 game for 360, it has been for two years since its release and it was my first 360 game. I remember 
 particular features about that game, I remember how it played and what it felt like. So when I 
 first entered the Giant Wasteland of Washington D. C, I knew that this experience was going to be 
 like Oblivion. Everything from the graphic style, to the controls, and Dialouge System. It was 
 Deju Vu all over again. Fallout 3 is basicly everything you loved about Oblivion.... but with guns. 
 I welcomed it back like a old friend. The game is crafted and fleshed out so much better than Oblivion, 
 that the experience isn't stale. It's world is much smaller, but the Wasteland of D. C is still 
 giganticly huge. Everything about the Fallout series is interesting, its backdrop for the story, 
 the plot, its characters, its atmosphere, its themes, so its no suprise that the franchise has 
 been reborn. The experience might remind you of Oblivion in many ways, but Fallout 3 is its own 
 unique experience.
  
  To Start off, I would like to just say that this is a extremely time consuming game. You will be 
 spending countless hours in this large and expansive world. In Oblivion, I had spent at least 110 
 hours just because I had played it over my summer vacation. The detail in the game's locations 
 and design is well thought out. Everywhere you will go there will be new faces and new enemies 
 to fight, and the game has over 150 places to explore in a average assumption. The best part of 
 Fallout 3, unlike Fable 2, is not in interim of the world, but in midst of the game's scripted 
 sequences. Yes, you have unparalled Freedom to explore, and that is very good. But the best moments 
 come when you follow a straight path. For instance, the game's begining reminds me of Bioshock's 
 atmosphere, its jaunty 50's theme spreads throughout the game. Its sequence of events go together 
 so seamlessly that its some of the best moments I ever had in the game. The backstory of Fallout 
 goes something like this, what if the timeline after World War II had split during the Cold War? 
 Instead of America prospering into a Utopia and advanced Civlization it is struck with a Nuclear 
 War with China and the United Nations were disbanded. The usage of Nuclear Warheads was influenced 
 by the Atom Bomb used in World War II and thus led to set the world on fire. Thus led the unexpected, 
 the world's technolgical advances had made man into its own destruction, the world has been destroyed 
 and people are sent to live underground, the unfortunate are left on the surface where they learn 
 to live in the Wastes. However, those who are fortunate to enter the Vaults have to live there 
 eternally never to see the surface again in their life. Without spoiling too much, You live in 
 Vault 101, You experience coming birth, your first baby steps, your 10th birthday party, When you 
 are 16 you go to class and take a General Occupation acceptance test. But once you are 19, you'll 
 father leaves the vault and you go and abandon the safety of Vault 101 and search for your father 
 in Washington's ruins from Nuclear Destruction. The world is consumed by deadly mutants and other 
 creatures, savage animals, waste pirates, raiders, and other monstrosities. The water supply is 
 also filled with radiational pollution. The begining events of Fallout 3 are used as a giant tutorial, 
 and it works to perfection. Not only does it serve as a great way to set up the story, its one 
 of the best moments of the game. Once you are let out into the wild you have the ability to do 
 anything you want at any given time. Games before have given you the choice between Good and Evil, 
 but Fallout 3 chooses to take the route of Pivotal Moral Choices. At times, I had wondered if I 
 had made the right decision or if what would happen if I biased to the otherside. There are three 
 basic choices in every conversation. The first is usually the morally "good" or "right" choice. 
 The medium is the middle ground, its neither good or bad but it stands to help yourself, it doesn't 
 slide towards good or evil. The last bar is usually for "Evil" or "Selfish" characters. Npcs react 
 to these responses in many different ways. Some characters might think you are disrespectful, some 
 may fear you, some may think you are charming, but it all depends on what you say. You can become 
 any character that you like. You can become a Do gooder or Deathbringer, you can become a rebel, 
 a merchant, a caretaker, an opportunist. Whatever fancies you, you can live it. The Wasteland is 
 full of odd and interesting characters, and its your giant playground. The Dialouge system may 
 be be great, but it pales against Bioware's Mass Effect. For one, your character cannot speak, 
 you just choose a line and the npcs respond. Mass Effect also does a very good job with lip synching 
 and facial expressions. Fallout 3 does this execptionally well but its not as advanced. Leveling 
 up and progressing your character takes a different approach thatn Oblivion. In this aspect, I 
 feel Fallout 3 is inferior. In Oblivion, you level up by performing and repeating. For instance 
 if you want to level up you need to enchance with minor skills to increase your major skills. Jumping 
 up and down from high elevations will increase your platforming ability, if you run around all 
 day you will get better with your agility and so on. This made Leveling up much more creative. 
 On the otherhand, Fallout 3 goes the conservative route. You level up with generic experience points 
 much like any other rpg. The game grants experience only by killing enemies, finding locations, 
 hacking computers, picking locks, talking to people and reading books. This may be Fun and addictive 
 in some ways, but it feels old compared to Oblivion. The perks and skills are collassal and may 
 feel Bioshocky or maybe the perks and skills in Bioshock feel Fallouty. Nevermind.
  
  Thankfully, The combat isn't as busted as Oblivion's. Although it does feel clunky in some respects, 
 Fallout 3's combat is rock solid. It doesn't feel as responsive or smooth as Today's Top notch 
 First Person Shooters but do remember this is a Role Playing Game. On the plus side, Weapons and 
 attacks are how they should be. Weapons come in a laundry list variety and attacks just feel Brutal. 
 The shotgun has its infamous bang, and assault rifles and pistols have that pop. Even the Melee 
 Weapons have their own Brutality. Heads will be blown out, bodies explode with all the gory intestines, 
 arms, limbs, and eyeballs fly across the screen. Its also finished with a poolhouse full of chunky 
 blood. Ouch. The combat is just up in your Face, and battles rarely slow down. All thanks to clever 
 First person action and a rpg feature called the V. A. T. S system. In this mode, the combat completely 
 stops and and the camera is zoomed in on enemies. The player decides where and how many times to 
 strike a body part. The Right analog stick selects where you want to attack. This makes tha action 
 feel like a rpg and is the main reason for the Brutalness of combat. But just like Exploration, 
 you get to decide how you fight your battles. If you want Fallout 3 to be a Action First Person 
 Shooter, go right ahead. If like your fights slow and laid back use the V. A. T. S system. Its just 
 another way to show that this is your game. Play it how you want. 
  
  Oblivion had showcased two different camera angles. First person and Third, Fallout 3 returns with 
 the same concept. But this time, The third person camera is much more accesible. But playing in 
 First Person mode gives the player to get up close and personal with the game. Its much easier 
 to take it all in. The controls in Fallout 3 is also done well. It follows almost the same easy 
 scheme as Oblivion but with a few attachments. Although the learning curve of the game might throw 
 off some gamers. It took me a while to find out where the map was, or how to enter and use V. A. T. S. 
 Honestly I sometimes am clueless, but its a Videogame. It should be easy to acess. The tutorial 
 gives you the gist of the game's features but some others don't get streched out as they should 
 be.
  
  Story wise, its a bit dissapointing. The story lacks Rpg elements. Its supposed to touching and 
 heroic just like Oblivion was. But instead Fallout 3 is mixed with wasted material and great moments. 
 Some events could of gotten a bit more polish. The basic plot of the game is to find your father, 
 and fix the water system. WTF? Yes its different, but it sounds kinda stupid. Luckily, there are 
 ton of quests that are interesting and unique. The Fantastic pieced events make up for Fallout's 
 dumb issue. Its gratifying of how well the story elements are put together though. Fable 2, had 
 one fine story, but it wasn't very original. Fallout 3 hits the originality aspect, but it lacks 
 creativity and polish. Yes, the story is good, better than most games but it could of been so much 
 more. Thank God, the voice acting isn't bad and when you'll playing it, the issue doesn't really 
 stick out. You really have to think deep to understand. There is a Main Villian, but he is rather 
 generic, and its introduced way late in the game. Also, the ending is so short and unrewarding. 
 I follow this thing for like 10 minutes and kill the Villian in a second with V. A. TS? Thats not 
 very Cinematic. The game's ending varies depending on what character you are, but the TRUE ending 
 is just still the same. Sadly, the story also moves like a turtle.
  
  Graphically, Fallout 3 is one of the most stunning games in the visual department. It uses an enchanced 
 version of Oblivion's engine but its used to a much farther extent. The Wasteland is huge, and 
 it takes a lot of time to detail every object in the game. But everything in the game is highly 
 detailed, from the cracks in the ground, to the debris that blows in the wind, from the game's 
 characters to its locations, Fallout 3 is a just eye candy. Artisticly, its the same. Everything 
 is well thought out. Caves and ruins are dark and gloomy, and creatures will scare the crap out 
 of you. Big thumbs up to Betheseda. But the real highlight of the technical aspect of Fallout is 
 its striking sound. The music plays a very mellow tune, and its creepy and awe inspiring for the 
 player to explore the wasteland. The schreeching sound of Vault 101's doors is shockingly disturbing, 
 and most sounds are put in effect to set the atmosphere of your surroundings. Out in the Wasteland, 
 an adventurous tune plays as you walk about the debris, and when its time for action the music 
 speeds up in the right moment. It slows down when it wants be to scary and every sound effect is 
 downright enchanting.
  
  In conclusion, Fallout 3 is a must-play experience. It is a combination of the best in Oblivion 
 with newer Betheseda enchancements. Its also one of the better experiences for 2008. I have spent 
 quite amount of time with the game that its safe to say that Fallout 3 may be the Rpg of the Year. 
 It destroys almost all rpgs on 360 but its slightly behind Technical achievements than Bioware's 
 Mass Effect offers. In some ways its also inferior to Oblivion and Fable 2. Fallout 3 has a few 
 minor problems such as moderately long load times and choppy framerates and edges. Also the game's 
 story isn't as wonderous as I expected, still good though on Rpg standards. These few faults are 
 only me being nitpicky and they could have gotten looked upon. But on other respects Fallout 3 
 shines like no other. Its a giant reward for long time Fans of the series, as well as Rpg lovers 
 and Genuine Gamers. But anyone who likes a well crafted experience will enjoy this game. Fallout 
 3 recieves a 10, but it isn't perfect. It rarely deserved such a great honor, but its High points 
 are just enough to give it the Perfect Score.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: BigAdamECU
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 29, 2008 7:01 am PT
Review:  This game has incredible graphics and roaming room. The V. A. T. S. is innovative for a first person 
 game. The story line is halfway decent. I haven't played all the way through but so far it has 
 been pretty good. The interactivity shows great potential and variety. The fact that you can have 
 a disposition is pretty cool in this game. The lock-picking is easy but fun. The side missions 
 for evil and good are pretty good. I think it would be cool if the fast travel would be like you 
 throw out some sort of teleportation pad or something and teleport. The RADS meter is confusing 
 to me for some reason. What does the Radiation do? The sound, graphics, and interactivity get a 
 10, but the innovation gets a 9. I would like to see more games like this set in a different time 
 like during the Holocaust or World War II. I think Bethesda has taken the RPG world by storm with 
 this outstanding game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -Spartan-
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 28, 2008 8:47 pm PT
Review:  Although at first you might be put off by trailers and screenshots, dont be. If you are a fan of 
 great story telling, graphics, fleshed out and realistic worlds, fun and interactive character 
 choices and interaction then you will love this. Oh and even if you are a casual gamer Fallout 
 3 will have something for you!
  
  I came into Fallout 3 expecting it to be Oblivion with guns and i would have been fine if it was 
 cause' we all loved that game. But no Fallout is something much more, different but at the same 
 time so familliar. It has a great feel of immersion and you really do want to help the people of 
 the wastes or if you're into the whole evil thing - Dominate them.
  
  Choices have a huge effect on the game much more than in Oblivion, the karma system is so great. 
 For instance if you choose to be evil you can destroy a whole city with a nuke you'll get well 
 paid and equipped for doing so but you will never have access to that city again or any of it's 
 inhabitants. It's these big morale decisions in Fallout that will have you questioning yourself, 
 can i really do this?
  
  The graphics are surprisingly great, from what i saw in trailers i was put off, but the Capital 
 Wasteland looks beautiful!
  
  But like most open ended games, there are glitches. Simple things like people walking into walls 
 or speaking to a door thinking some other character is actually there to whole game crashes, Fallout 
 3 crashed in total around 6 times for me, and if you dont save frequently this is a huge ****. 
 The companion system is terrible, if you love exploring do not get a follower! You'll find yourself 
 having to body push your mate off a ledge knowing that if you didn't he or she might rush off to 
 drown or be killed by raiders.
  
  And boy oh boy, animations. Come on bethesda, you nail all the other aspects why not something 
 as important as animations? As i mentioned before watching NPC's walk into walls gets old quick. 
 Oh and once i saw an NPC sink into the ground. Facial expressions are good but could be better.
 
  
  Overall this is now one of my favourite games of all time. And is a definate buy, the pros wheigh 
 out the cons heavily. If you loved The Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion, you will love Fallout 3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cantius
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 28, 2008 8:04 pm PT
Review:  What do you think about wondering around the wasteland, looking for scrap of food, water, or even 
 weapons? In Fallout 3, you'd need a lot of things to survive. If your the kind of gamer that takes 
 his time, likes a lot of action, sniping, and RPG, then this is the game for you. The vast abandoned 
 wasteland when you walk out of your vault takes your breath away. At first, you'll be lost, and 
 don't know where the hell to go. The game, I agree, is pretty difficult at the beginning, but it 
 gets very fun once you learn the game's mechanics. As for the introduction, Fallout 3 is a new 
 installment from the Fallout series, and it does not dissapoint. 
  
  Story [4/10] -
  Yeah, let's be honest here. The story was just plain bad. There are no plot twists, no awesome 
 cutscenes, or any omgwtf story moments in the game at all. To get to the point, the story is about 
 how the world fell to a full blast nuclear war, and left the world into a vast wasteland. The game 
 takes place in the state of Washington, where you, a Vault dweller, resides in. Now vaults were 
 bomb shelters created by the government, incase something like a nuclear war happened. Since it 
 did happened, most of North America's citizens moved into these vaults, and maybe stay inside forever. 
 Now, you, a vault dweller, start out as a baby, then to 8, celebrate your birthday, then to 16, 
 you take your G. O. A. T test. After all of this, chaos ensues when your dad leaves the vault, and 
 you go out to pursue your dad. Yeah, after that, there's really nothing interesting about the story 
 at all. The sidequests are unique however, and the computer terminals with journal entries make 
 up for the bad storyline. In conclusion, the story could've been polished up, and could've been 
 better. 
  
  Gameplay [8/10] -
  Now, let me ask you some questions. Do you like to blow your enemies' head off? Do you like being 
 an evil jerk? Do you like scouring through the wasteland, looking for food? Do you like explosions? 
 Well, those questions make up about 1/4 of the game probably. The game starts out as you build 
 your stats up from the vault. As you get out from the vault, these stats are vital for your survival 
 against the dangers of the wasteland. Such dangers can be giant scorpions, human raiders, and much 
 more! Your stats are important for your survival. Such stats can be Lockpicking, which can enable 
 you to unlock locked doors throughout the wasteland, or Sneaking, which can make you sneak and 
 pickpocket people, or do a surprising critical dmg on an unsuspecting enemy. There are also perks, 
 which you pick from when you lvl up every time. Perks are unique abilities that helps you throughout 
 the game. Some can make you talk your way out of things, increase your dmg resistance, or even 
 mark all the unexplored areas you didn't find onto the map. Another vital gameplay element is the 
 VATS system. Now the VATS is an awesome way for you to aim better, and kill better. If you can't 
 aim well from afar, or if you want a 100% headshot, you can use VATS, which is a multiple aim system 
 that you use with your action points. Using these action points, you can target various parts of 
 your enemy, and deal dmg to them. For example, if you only focus your target on a raider's arm, 
 you can cripple it, which can make them unable to use weapons. The VATS system is very fun to use. 
 An awesome reason why is that every time you use VATS, the game shows your character in a slow 
 motion firing bullets onto your enemy. If you liked the stuff I just listed above, you can expect 
 even more gameplay elements in the game. Overall, I think that the gameplay was really engaging 
 and fun altogether.
  
  Graphics [9/10] -
  Detailed, full bright graphics envelop the world of Fallout 3. Around every corner, you can find 
 great details on cliffs, dead trees, your enemies, and NPCs. The characters look great, the explosions 
 are blinding even, and the texture is very well done. If you liked Gears of war's graphics, then 
 you'll like Fallout 3's graphics. I've had my eyes tear from the crazy graphics from this game. 
 (Which weren't emotional tears, of course.) Overall, the graphics are amazing, and Bethesda did 
 a splendid job with the graphics.
  
  Music/Sound [9/10] -
  Another great highlight of the game. The sounds are realistic, awesome, and clean. From the launching 
 of your Fatman Nuke launcher, to the rapid firing of your assault rifle, you'll love every sound 
 of it. The voice acting is also very good, and professional. There weren't any bad voice acting, 
 and the voices matched with the character a lot. It really showed their character and personality. 
 Now, as for the music, the music is plain awesome. Especially once you pop in the Galaxy News radio 
 channel, and listen to the old school music. The old school music is very catchy to listen to, 
 and may even sometimes go along with your kills. There's nothing wrong with hearing a soothing 
 oldies song while sniping your enemies from afar. Good game, sir. Overall, I give the music and 
 sound section a 9 out of 10.
  
  Final Word -
  To say the least, Fallout 3 is worth the $60 bucks. It's probably worth more than 40 hours of gameplay, 
 let alone, maybe even more with the replay value. The game never gets old, but it does sometime 
 get repetetive. Word of caution though, the game gets boring once you reach the level cap of 20. 
 You better hope they release a downloadable content to raise it up, for more fun. Overall, Fallout 
 3 is a great western RPG. A definite buy for RPG fans. Maybe not for JRPG fans, but definitely 
 for the Western RPG fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Metroid997
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 28, 2008 6:01 pm PT
Review:  This game has exactly what I was looking forward to from the next installment in Fallout. Still 
 Dark and Witty, this game brings all the core and classic elements back with some updated twists 
 (more weapons, headgear, wardrobe adding additional abilities, etc.) . If you were a fan of Oblivion, 
 this game is a MUST. I can't wait to play this game over and over tag different traits to be come 
 a smooth talking looker to an oafy brute. There is so much to explore and have already found some 
 elements of the past game included in this game, and I know there are so many more (Dogmeat and 
 Harold anyone?) . 
  My only gripe about it is that the game will not be for everyone, specifically for those huge FPS 
 fans because of the VATS shooting style (it's nostalgia for me) and the amount of dialogue you 
 need through out the game. But if you enjoy the open endedness of other games (Fable and Oblivion 
 to name a couple) , you will without a doubt fall in love with this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deon11898
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 28, 2008 1:40 pm PT
Review:  This game has to be one of the best of the year. It may even win the best of the year award. I 
 played every day i got it at least twice for about 20-80 minutes. It is very fun and easy to learn. 
 I am still currently playing it and like it very much. Without a doubt i give this game a 9.5. 
 !!! !!!! !!!!! !!!!! !!!! !!!!! !!!!! !!!! !!!!1 !!!!! 1!!!!1 !!!! !!!!! !!!!! !!!!! !!!!! !!!!! 
 !!!!!! deon deon doen deon deon deon deon deon deon deon deon deon deon deon deon deon deon deon 
 deon doen deon d e o n  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ForgottenLives
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 28, 2008 1:00 pm PT
Review:  Sheltered Existence
  
  My own experience begins, just as yours will, in a makeshift birthing chamber in a sealed Vault 
 deep beneath the nuke-blasted ruins of Washington, D. C. I chose a white male (but there are options 
 galore) and tweaked him into a fair approximation of myself using facial dimension sliders and 
 a small library of hair styles. I then leapfrogged through childhood and adolescence, shaping my 
 vital statistics and core skills until I hit the age of nineteen; that's when my Father disappeared 
 into the wastelands and I headed out on his trail.
  
  It's easy to obsess about the decisions you make during your formative years. Do you fancy yourself 
 a beefy brawler or a stealthy marksman? Do you put a little extra into your strength, so you can 
 carry more gear, or boost your intelligence, so you earn more skill points to spend on thirteen 
 core abilities? You can even choose from dozens of special "perks" as you gain levels, like Swift 
 Learner or Gun Nut. However, not long after I set foot on the irradiated soil of the surface it 
 became clear that these are the least of the choices I would face the sprawling and desolate wonderland. 
 Within ten minutes of stepping outside, I'm inspecting the nuclear warhead that rests in the center 
 of the town of Megaton, trying to decide if my character is the kind of guy who would defuse or 
 detonate this dangerous relic.
  
  Choose Your Own Adventure
  
  From the sheer acreage of the world and the astounding level of detail inherent in the environment, 
 you get the impression that Fallout 3 is all about exploration. You can set out to catalogue every 
 inch of this ashen world's crumbling highways and pockmarked monuments, and the variety of horrors 
 and wonders you'll uncover along the way provide plenty of thrills. Whether you're enduring radiation 
 sickness in a flooded city rail station, hacking a defense computer to help clean a derelict museum 
 of green-skinned Super Mutants, or disarming mines while a crazed elderly sniper goes wild in a 
 forgotten and distant suburb, you could write one hell of a personal history without ever talking 
 to another person.
  
  You would, however, miss out on what transforms Fallout 3 from a great game into a bona fide classic. 
 Sure, the people you'll run into seem to have adjusted just a little too well to a world where 
 every glass of water comes with a heaping helping of radiation, and you'll get pretty tired of 
 hearing the same voice come out of dozens of supposedly different people. But the quests these 
 jokers dole out demand that you make some pretty major decisions, and accept the far-reaching consequences 
 that accompanies each and every action. Will you earn good karma points by fighting for android 
 rights and foiling corrupt government goons, or get yourself addicted to drugs and kill indiscriminately? 
 Between the list of branching quests and the deep well of character development options, Fallout 
 3's replayability is incalculable.
  
  Target Rich Environment
  
  Of course, you'd never experience that long-term satisfaction if the moment-to-moment gameplay 
 weren't so outstanding. I learned in my early showdowns that though it's possible to play Fallout 
 3 as a straight first-person shooter, it's much more fun to put the Vault-tec Assisted Targeting 
 System (VATS) to good use whenever possible. Depending on your agility, you're given a recharging 
 supply of Action Points to spend on attacks. Tap a button to pause combat, queue up precision shots 
 on selected body parts, and tap another to watch the carnage play out in gruesome slow-motion displays 
 of exaggerated bloodshed. Cripple a charging lizard's leg to slow him down, or go for the head 
 shot. Take out a giant ant's antennae, and it'll attack its buddies in a confused frenzy.
  
  I was worried that this periodic pausing would kill the pace of combat, and that the graphic 
 displays of decapitation, dismemberment, and death would grow tiresome even with the added explosive 
 gore of frag grenades and the Bloody Mess perk. Instead, I found that the variety of monsters and 
 locales made almost every situation feel unique in some way, and the large library of salvaged 
 and custom-made weaponry gave me all the tactical flexibility I could ever want. Whether you've 
 got a taste for lasers, rockets, mines, shells, bullets, or fisticuffs, Fallout 3's combat is always 
 challenging and entertaining.
  
  Crowd Control
  
  I can't claim to know how exactly the monsters scale as you level, but I definitely met with more 
 varied resistance than I ever did in Oblivion, a game that Fallout 3 obviously shares many similarities 
 with. Some areas are almost impenetrable until you develop to a certain level of fitness, while 
 others yield to thoughtful analysis of your strategic options. Some monsters slowly but surely 
 become easier to take down as your skills improve, just as even more formidable opponents come 
 out of the woodwork. As a result, I found I grew steadily more attached to my ever-improving character, 
 and sought out more and more perilous situations with which to test his mettle. Radscorpions, raiders, 
 and mutants eventually seem like child's play compared to glowing ghouls, power-armored Enclave 
 stooges and laser-shooting robots.
  
  In all the many hours that I played Fallout 3, the only time I ever stopped enjoying myself was 
 when I had to contend with NPC partners who couldn't walk twenty feet without getting confused 
 about how to follow me. If that's the biggest complaint I can find to lodge against this dark, 
 deep, and detailed voyage to the other side of Armageddon, one thing is crystal clear: you need 
 to play this game. It truly lives up to the hype and sets the bar high for every RPG that will 
 come after it. It's an instant classic and one that will occupy your time for a long time to come.
 
  
  Overall
  
  The Good: Deep character development options; huge open world with tons of quests; satisfying combat; 
 dangerously addictive. 
  
  The Bad: Poor partner path-finding; many characters share the same voice; third-person view is 
 useless; some perks of questionable value.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: stupid4
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 27, 2008 12:19 pm PT
Review:  Strengths - Huge immersive world, highly addicting, tons of replayability, gorgeous graphics, very 
 gory and bloody, lots of character customization, lots of weapons
  
  Weaknesses - More difficult than your typical game, once it is beaten you have to start over
 
  
  I'm going to start off by saying that I normally do not like RPGs. But Fallout 3 is so great, that 
 even an FPS fan like me will enjoy Fallout 3. Not only do I think this is easily the game of the 
 year, I believe this is one of the best games ever created. 
  
  There are not many flaws in Fallout 3. The graphics are great. Bethseda does a good job depicting 
 what post-apocalyptic Washington D. C. would look like. The combat is superb. The VATS system is 
 very easy to pick up and lots of fun. Killing an enemy with a head shot in slow motion is one of 
 the most satisfying things ever. The game is very bloody, maybe the most any video game has ever 
 been. If your queesy I don't know if you are going to be able to handle this game. Also interacting 
 with the locals in this game is lots of fun. Your experience with the game will truly be changed 
 based on your actions. And of course the character customization is wonderful. You can make your 
 character look any way you want. The only flaw to this game (a very small flaw) is its difficulty. 
 It isn't as hard as Ninja Gaiden, but there will be points in the game where you are tested. Also 
 once you have completed the game you can not go back into the world with your same character. You 
 will have to restart and make a new one. For these reasons I might not ever beat the game because 
 of how much I like it and how much there is in the world to explore! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: elzzon
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 27, 2008 8:48 am PT
Review:  From the 1st rpg to many more that will be on consoles i think this game raises the bar on rpg's 
 on console and on the xbox more this game has so much to give and so much to tell amazing graphics 
 and gameplay 2nd to no one i played thru the game and find myself at level 15 so i got a long way 
 to go and im addicted to it and cant wait for each quest and everyone is different it didn't win 
 game of the year but in my eyes it is game of 2008 no doubt with a nice game price of 24.99 in 
 amazon so i tell you its well worth getting this game with over 150 hours of gameplay.
  the level are easy at 1st but it gets real hard and the quest sometime you will find them to be 
 a pain in the ass but you can get thru it with good time there are so many things you can do and 
 the makers of the game who made oblivion if you loved that game like i did you will love this game 
 with its modern twist on life in the wasteland 
  10/10
  5 stars 
  and won many awards already
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: echmyr
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 26, 2008 9:45 pm PT
Review:  From the get go, the story really caught my attention. I am not so sure why. Maybe because the 
 side quests don't feel tacked on. They feel like a part of the world. Maybe because it was a departure 
 from TES. I don't know, but the strongest part of the game is the story.
  
  I like how your skill open up new dialog choices. It give the game some replay value for me. I 
 also like the voice acting, which though not on par with Mass Effect is still a solid 8 out of 
 10 for me.
  
  Now the let downs. I am really disappointed that you max out at level 20. On my first play through, 
 once I got to level 20 I had very little incentive to continue to explore the world for more of 
 the same encounter and treasure, knowing there was no where else to improve really. That would 
 be the worst let down except for the crashes.
  
  I have never had a game crash so often! I'm not just talking about an erroneous "dirty disk" error, 
 I mean the game crashes and I have to shut down the 360 because I can't even get back to the dashboard! 
 I know I have an older 360, but come on! That's why I like console games better. The hardware is 
 set. 
  
  Anyway, I would have rated this a 9 except for the crashes. 9+ if there was no level limit.
  
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: djwood84
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 25, 2008 10:55 pm PT
Review:  First, lets get the big thing out of the way: Fallout 3 is built right on top of the Oblivion engine. 
 Like RIGHT on top of it. The 3rd peson view is just as laughable as Oblivion, the character animations 
 and dialogue are just as great. This game is essentially the world's greatest Oblivion mod, and 
 while thats quite an accomplishment, it assures Fallout 3 can't outshine Bethesda's previous endeavor.
 
  
  The two greatest additions made to Oblivion in this mod are the wonderfully intercut combat camera 
 angles and the steamlined UI. Since the 3rd person view is so bad it would make a PS2 owner cry, 
 its absolutely wonderful to see your character during these combat scenes. The streamlined UI is 
 culminated in the simple to navigate armband you'll be wearing, which houses your inventory, maps 
 and everything else you could need.
  
  Graphically, its very impressive. The textures are a bit dated, but the draw distance and unprecedented 
 size of the game more than make up for that. From an RPG standpoint, the level of character customization 
 is very satisfying, and leaves you with a lot to think about each time you level. The story, which 
 unfold largely through walking up to someone, listening to them talk, and choosing from a list 
 of responses, is very interesting, but it's presented SO IDENITCALLY to Oblivion that you can't 
 help but notice the lack of effort. Perhaps it was more just a lack of desire to innovate, or a 
 fear that changing from a proven formula would be recieved harshlly.
  
  I could honestly write 10 pages about how this game makes me feel, and half of it would be praise, 
 the other 5 pages would be slamming this absurdly overrated game. In a year where Fable2 pushed 
 character development, where MGS4 redifined storytelling, and where dozens of other games sought 
 to be innovative, Fallout3 fails to push the envelope in anyway. If you are looking for a good 
 RPG, pick this up. If you liked Oblivion, pick this up. If you need a new game to play, pick this 
 up! Just don't expect the game that is topping so many "BEST OF 2008" lists. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: liveforce24
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 25, 2008 9:12 pm PT
Review:  Fallout 3 has a lot hype about it and deserves it. First of all is the story line that I have heard 
 criticsm about. The story line is great and highly addictive that goes through key points in your 
 life as an infant , child , teenager and young adult. In wich almost all time is spent as a young 
 adult tring to find your father in the post apocalyptic Washington D. C. known as the captical waste 
 land. This brings me to my next part of the review the graphics. No mater what system 360, ps3 
 or pc the graphics are all some of the best I have ever seen in a game weather its walking through 
 the waste land or killing super mutants in down town D. C. One of the most important parts of the 
 game is the game play. It is a little like oblivon edxcept it has guns wich is a shame because 
 it would of brighten up the arena fights. The addtion of guns means the addtion of the V. A. S. T. 
 aming system that picks a body part to shoot and hits teh enemys in slow motion. Let me tell you 
 watching a mutants body fly in one direction and its head in three others never gets old. The olny 
 prolbem is the diffculty in the begining. When you exit the valut on your frist play through your 
 guns are weak and ammo is scarce and people can beat you to death in melee battle and health is 
 scarce. Overall it is a great game and on the second play through its even betterand I personly 
 recomend it. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: holy_terr0r
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 8, 2009 7:39 pm PT
Review:  First came Fallout, and as I played it, I thought to myself, "here's something new." Then came 
 Fallout 2, I wasn't sure if I enjoyed it as much as the original, but I was still satisfied. Then 
 came Fallout 3. A quote kept going through my mind as I ventured deeper and deeper into the amazing 
 post- apocalyptic world, "This is really cool." If I had a cent cent for every time I said that 
 within the first few hours of the game, I'd be rich. 
  Fallout 3 is a unique RPG, I've never come across a combat system as great as this game's. For 
 those blood n' guts lovers, the all- new combat system will allow you to target a certain part 
 of your foe's body, take a few shots at it, and eventually send it flying off into an explosion 
 of gore. This makes the action extremely satisfying and intelligent. Although, you also have the 
 option to just shoot at your target without the targeting system. 
  The storyline.... It's very good, not great, in my opinion. It's kind of like an "I Am Legend" 
 style, except there are still people walking around. Pretty much, the world's thrown into turmoil, 
 death and destruction everywhere, after a series of massive bombings occur through a large- scale 
 war. The survivors are safe inside these vaults, which protect them for the horrors of the outer 
 world. You are one of these people. But, later on, your father ventures out of the vault, without 
 any reason or explanation. Now your goal is to set out and find him. And through these adventures, 
 many perilous creatures lie in wait, to prey on explorers like yourself. And, every choice you 
 make affects the end result of the game, whether you're good- hearted or black- hearted. Although, 
 there was a letdown in the end of the game. Bethesda kept bragging about hundreds of alternate 
 endings, but there's only about 20. Even with the 20, the changes are so miniscule that you'll 
 barely even notice them. I went thru all endings, and I was quite disappointed at their similarity. 
 If you're pure evil, you'll oretty much get almost the same as the good ending.
  Another annoyance in fallout 3 is the lack of money. It's quite hard to survive in this wasteland, 
 as stimpaks are needed for almost every fight, and, starting off, it's hard to earn the money to 
 buy them, or get a doctor to patch you up. When you advance more it'll be easier, but it's a hard 
 start.
  I also had problems with the levelling system. the max level is 20, and you have 15 points per 
 level gained to up your stats, and 1 perk. Although I really needed to level up other stuff, I 
 had to use my points to level the combat areas so I could survive the game more easily. I had to 
 put most of my points towards those more than the stuff I wanted, like science and lockpicking.
 
  The graphics in Fallout 3 are AMAZING, but, greatness comes with flaws. every single place you 
 visit in the massive gameworld of Washington D. C. hints great game design. Although still, as I 
 wandered the wasteland, there was a feeling of emptiness. I mean, the trailers show large, destroyed 
 cities, but more than half of the game is just a dessert- type place. Another problem I encountered 
 were the very rare glitches. These glitches, being as rare as they were, were still big. At one 
 point a whole black plank looking thing (glitch) was attached to my gun. Not only couldn't i see 
 well, when I fired, I automatically killed myself.
  The characters in Fallout 3 are really great. Great voice acting, Liveliness in each character, 
 and very realistic. You can interact with all the characters, and all of them have their on schedules 
 and personalities, so it's fun to get to know them all, or kill them if they annoy you too much. 
 Many of the characters you meet will offers quests to you, and there's a lot of variety in the 
 quests. To top it off, there's TONS of quests! You can do them on your own time, none have to be 
 rushed, none even have to be completed. Even the storlyine, you don't have to complete it. You 
 might not even want to, you might want to explore the gameworld for hours on end, there's so much 
 to do. But take it as a warning, when you complete the main storyline, the game DOES end, so save 
 just before you complete it.
  The V. A. T. S system also glitches a lot. Sometimes your gun is going thru your opponents head if 
 you're close up and using V. A. T. S, and you might hit or miss, making the combat system inconsistent, 
 which at times is a bit frustrating. But the satisfying aspect when you land a hit mostly makes 
 up for this flaw.
  All in all, Fallout 3 is a good buy. Only a few problems fit their way into this game. Two thumbs 
 up.
  (Just a warning, this game ain't for the faint hearted, it's brutal on all levels) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alsager777
Rating: 6
Date: Dec 25, 2008 4:40 pm PT
Review:  this game was a huge disappointment to me. the game engine is from the 90's. the movement is awful 
 and the action is pathetic. the player menu or whatever they call it in the game is complicated. in 
 the bright side the graphic are not bad neither the interactions with the people. bottom line i 
 could not even like this game or any RPG game have the same gaming style for example: oblivian and 
 gothic.
  if you want to buy this game dont buy it for its hype please try it first especially if you are 
 an RPG fan like me. too bad there is no many great RPG's on the x360. another thing to mention is 
 that the environment interaction are not that great either, you can see you character walking awkwardly 
 on hills and stuff. not to forget the melee combat which is a total joke, even gothic 2 is not that 
 bad. i cant see what people likes about it that much but i hope to see it one day, until then i'll 
 keep playing gears of war 2.
  thanks 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tasu14
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 25, 2008 6:36 am PT
Review:  Fallout is truly one of the top games of 2008. The graphics are stunning at first sight and when 
 you combine that together with the barren wasteland of the radiated Washington D. C. it makes you 
 feel as if you are really there.
  
  The gameplay is amazing, especially the fact that you could find any way around a problem. The 
 area of the game is vast and consists of dozens of side quests that could be completed any time 
 you want.
  
  The 1950's feel to the game is truly genuine, mixed in with all of the problems in D. C. and the 
 fact that the game is full of patriots who respect thier country makes you feel at home when helping 
 out all of the problems and evils that consume the capital wasteland.
  
  The karma system within the game has a great feel to it. It would truly reflect on your own charachter. 
 Like in the video review done by gamespot "you can do some really sick things in this game" (and 
 blowing up a town with a nuke is only the beggining of it)
  
  The combat in this game can change very quickly. In which every single bullet counts, fans of rpg 
 games and first person fast paced shooters would enjoy this game. anything can provoke an enemy, 
 ( sometimes they would stalk you for several miles before you find out that there is an enemy behind 
 you.
  The amount of gore in this game truly combines with this comment: "not for the weak hearted"
 
  
  Fallout 3 was a great game, in which i believe would come as the 3rd best game of 2008 (after GTA 
 IV, and MGS4) and i would recommend it to almost everyone. but remember this game requires a lot 
 of strategy and techniqe to beat. DO NOT THINK THAT YOU CAN GO IN GUNS BLAZING AND EXPECT TO SURVIVE 
 AGAINST A DOZEN ENEMYS AND THIER "friends"
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrDziekuje
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 25, 2008 4:57 am PT
Review:  Having not played the first two (main series) Fallout titles I went into this one pretty uneducated, 
 mostly attracted to the almost hilarious amount of gore and that fact that you could SHOOT TEDDY 
 BEARS OUT OF A CANNON. When the almighty internet praised the game until the cows came home, and 
 until they had gone to bed, I knew Fallout 3 was a title I needed to pick up.
  
  As I said in the header, one thing you'll notice very quickly is that while Fallout is set in the 
 post-apocalyptic future, it looks a heck of a lot like Bethesda's other little game called The 
 Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion. Is that a bad thing? If you hate Oblivion, then yeah. But most people 
 don't, so I'm going to keep on rambling.
  
  How is it so similar to Oblivion? Well, the graphics are of similar appearance (tech-wise) , the 
 game is huge, the speech interface is very similar, and a lot of mechanics are familiar to those 
 who have played TES IV. Essentially, what I mean is Oblivion fans will be right at home and probably 
 pick up the game quickly.
  
  However, as I also mentioned in the header, Fallout 3 is not just an Oblivion face-lift. It manages 
 to stand on it's own two feet, and not in Oblivion's shadow, but right next to it.
  
  You start off in a Vault-Tec vault. These vaults were built in case of nuclear warm which, you'll 
 find soon enough, happened. Big time.
  
  First you'll watch a first person cut-scene of your birth (well obviously you can't see until you're 
 "out") where you will be able to pick your character's sex, name, and adult appearance. Again we 
 are reminded of Oblivion, but don't worry. Fallout comes shortly.
  
  You'll skip forward to being one year old. Here you'll learn walking, interacting with objects, 
 and best of all you'll choose your base stats for later on. These include Strength (melee damage 
 and carried weight capacity) , Perception (radar range, stealth, and auto-combat accuracy) , Endurance 
 (health points) , Charisma (speech) , Intelligence (science, medicine, and total skill points earned 
 from each level up) , Agility (speed and action points (I'll explain later on) ) , and Luck (critical 
 hit ratio and a small impact on all skills) . These are together known as S. P. E. C. I. A. L. and they 
 can be used to determine what type of character you will use. Stealthy players may want to have 
 higher Agility and Perception, whereas someone who likes close range combat will want to up their 
 Strength. Maybe you just like winning people over with your words (Charisma is for you) .
  
  After a short scene you are ten. You'll meet some people and discover some detail on what vault 
 life is all about. Most importantly, you'll receive your very own Pipboy3000. The Pipboy is a little 
 computer you wear on your wrist. This essentially works as your menu like the traveler's book in 
 Oblivion. In your Pipboy, you can view all sorts of things. Maps, inventory, important documents, 
 quest info, player status (including health, radiation levels, sicknesses, bonuses, weight load, 
 limb condition, and more) . Here you can also perform a number of actions. You can set a map marker 
 or fast travel to an already-discovered location (hello again, Oblivion) , you can use health items 
 or drugs (all of them have a purpose (aside from euphoria, harty har har) but you can get addicted 
 if you use too much) , listen to audio documents, and other things pertaining to an adventurer's 
 needs. Age ten is also where you learn how to shoot a gun. and use V. A. T. S.. Vault-Tec Assisted 
 Targeting System is an auto-combat system. Using V. A. T. S. will freeze all action and you can pick 
 where your character will aim. Once you string together a series of attacks, they will be executed 
 in cinematic form. While you aren't doing any of the aiming or shooting, V. A. T. S. uses an accuracy 
 system. Each body part will have a different percentage chance that the shot will hit. This is 
 affected by distance, cover, and your own stats. And no, watching a grenade go off under someone 
 and blow them apart in slow-motion NEVER gets old.
  
  After learning combat basics, you jump to age sixteen. You're going to take your Generalized Occupational 
 Aptitude Test, or G. O. A. T.. This is a test to see what career you should go with in the vault, 
 however for the player it will determine what skills you are best in to start out with. Providing 
 intelligent or technical solutions to the problems will give you a boost in medicine, repair, science, 
 or other things of that nature. Providing what I like to call "Hulk angry, Hulk smash!" answers 
 will might land you some points in melee or big gun skills. Some of the situations paired with 
 the answers are pretty funny.
  
  Next you'll be awakened by your friend at nineteen years old. The whole vault is in an uproar. 
 I won't spoil why, but you end up leaving the vault and starting your adventure in post-nuclear 
 fallout Washington D. C., or "the Capital Wasteland". This is where Fallout 3 truly begins.
  
  Pick a direction. Any direction. Run in that direction. Something in the way? Kill it. Any 
 good loot? Keep moving. A town? Are there settlers? Are they friendly? If they aren't should I 
 try to take them out or should I avoid them? 
  
  Freedom in Fallout 3 is nearly endless. You can go anywhere, do anything. There are hundreds of 
 people to talk to (and they got rid of that crappy disposition system from Oblivion) . There are 
 well over one hundred locations to visit and more quests than you could shake a Repellent Stick 
 at (game reference for the win) . Many friendly towns to trade with or sleep in for the night. Many 
 raider settlements filled with baddies who want to tear you limb from limb. What will you do?
 
  
  Fallout 3 doesn't have the highest quality graphics, but like Oblivion, the sheer size of the land 
 more than makes up for it. You'll see some crappy looking textures frequently, but the characters 
 look nice (in one piece or many) . Animations could use some work though.
  
  The sound is fantastic. The only thing that sounds better than a rifle shot followed by a cry of 
 pain, is hearing it in slow motion. Sorry if that sounds a little sick but DAMN is V. A. T. S. entertaining! 
 Voice acting is mixed. On one hand, you have Liam Neeson (yes!) voicing your character's father. 
 On the other hand, we've got all the other NPCs in the game (boo!) . Less important NPCs rarely 
 fare well and this case is no different. Topping the whole thing off, however, is a stellar soundtrack 
 made of Bethesda's own adventurous compositions and radio hits from the 1930s and 1940s.
  
  Combat works well, really well with the inclusion of V. A. T. S.. Even without it though, fighting 
 is simple and it's easy to pick up. There are a ton of different weapons so combat rarely gets 
 tiring.
  
  Fallout 3 is one of those must have titles of this generation. If you own a 360, PS3, or PC you 
 really have no excuse not to get it. And if you are a fan of Oblivion, even better, because Fallout 
 polishes everything Oblivion was and then adds to it. Pick it up as soon as you can. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jesusmartin23
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 23, 2008 10:18 pm PT
Review:  You will find that some of the most enjoyable gameplay comes from a lot of browsing to find out 
 sidequests that for some reason are hidden and can be easily missunderstood. It feels incomplete 
 on many ways but it still kept me entertain for an exagerated amount of hours (about 40) . get ready 
 to use manuals and postings in order to troubleshoot the many glitches that attempt to steal the 
 satisfaction of victory away from you. The shoting system is complitely annoying, its a console 
 style gameplay that has no business on a PC platform unless you are a girl.
  
  Well I actually had to do a lot of console work in order to finish this game. It is broken with 
 glitches that will not let you finish it. For some reason people assume that we have the time to 
 restart the game and lose 4 or 6 hours of gameplay when the gmae glitches and a door wont open 
 in order to finish a quest. Other quests need console work to revive MPC's that just never show 
 up. But there is a lot of fun to have with the sort of open gameplay. The multiple ending is a 
 myth at best. You just get a semi different dialogue at the end very unworthy and unsitisfying 
 after such a prolonged and thorough character development from the side of the user. A lot of things 
 could have been done better. But hey a game needs to be release to make money on time. It boils 
 down to that money.
  
  ------------- Dictated but not read. I get nothing but grief from so call admins from voicing my 
 opion. --
  
  Disclaimer: Gamespot is a website dedicated to minors therefore you can not make adult reviews 
 on adult games. I have been punished several times by deleting badges or posts because of expressing 
 my true feelings about certaint titles that should have simply never been release. THEREFORE EVERYTHING 
 YOU READ OF ME IS BIASED AND TONED DOWN TO SATISFY THE BEHIND KISSING NEEDED TO SATISFY THE GAMING 
 COMPANIES THAT SPONSOR THIS SITE. Sorry i can only give you water down opinions but free speech 
 is dead in the U. S. internet as well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DemonSpade
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 23, 2008 9:52 am PT
Review:  Fallout 3 was incredible! I had never play the fallouts before this one but this game made me want 
 to buy them. Fallout 3 never gets old, its like a new adventure everyday and fairly easy to get 
 gamerscore from. On Fable 2 you could quickly get good by playing the lute, but on Fallout 3 its 
 takes time to change karma. I have completed it a couple of times now and each play through was 
 completly different from on another!
  Things you can do:
  Kill things
  Build weapons
  Rescue people
  Gain karma
  Find followers
  Explore
  Capture slaves
  Barter
  Complete 
 quests
  And much more! :-)
  In quests there are normally a few ways of finishing them, but choose wisly because everything 
 adds up to your karma.
  The game is based many years after a war which left the world in a mess. Your Dad escaped the vault (A 
 shelter of some sort i think) and you must step into the outside world in search of him.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: GAMMONMASTER
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 23, 2008 9:27 am PT
Review:  I rented this game and I had always disliked RPGs due to the fact I love shooters. I did not like 
 the first 2 hours of Fallout 3 but played on because I was bored. Somewhere in that dark wasteland... I 
 became HOOKED! I think this game is one of the best I have ever played! The choices, the karma, 
 the never knowing what is going to happen next and of course Dog Meat, make this an amazing value 
 for replay and also quite a challenge. Being a novice to RPGs, I started on very hard thinking 
 as a shooter, I would rape this V, A, T, S thing... wrong. I am still on VH because I could not let 
 myself go backwards as far as skill goes. I think that is the best way to start now because I am 
 barely through the game and I am at level 19. One thing that is funny about the game though, I 
 got Dog Meat killed once and felt so bad, I started a whole part over just to have him back. LOL! 
 Now he stays at my house in Megaton just so I can enjoy strolling the wasteland with him after 
 I am almost finished with the game....
  
  In my humble opinion, coming from a guy who has been playing video games since 1973, this is easily 
 game of the year with no peers... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: advari_corp
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 22, 2008 9:49 pm PT
Review:  Well what can I say, im a big fan of the Role-playing games, but fallout leaves mass effect, fable, 
 ect short... if there's a better rpg, than oblivion maybe fallout will be nominated.
  First thing i really enjoy of the game... The storyline, a nuclear enviroment with radiation zones 
 all over the place, mutants, and of course D. C destroyed.
  Second: things like, the nuke in megaton (and the choices about it) the npc's, the things u can 
 said to them, be bad meanless ect i really love that.
  And finally , Stealing!!! yeah stealing, pick pockets! and shooting everyone in the face and then 
 stealing all their cash, weapones, ammo, with no need to buy or talk, even that fable had something 
 similar, it was no match to this! haha.
  The bad... loading times..
  but i really really love this game; is so addictive
  Buy it, it's worth the 50 bucks believe 
 me... u can make your own story because this one is a REAL free world! game.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Airidis
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 22, 2008 6:38 pm PT
Review:  Fallout 3 is by far the best game i have played in a long time. it balances most of the elements 
 that make the game great.
  
  Gameplay: the action in fallout 3 revolves around the V. A. T. S system. V. A. T. S pause the game and 
 allows you to pick a body part then shoot it with improved accuracy and damage, Also it look freakin 
 awsome! when i first saw this i thought that it might get boring but there has not been a time 
 yet where i have wanted to skip the amazing little scenes of you killing someone
  
  Story: the story is pretty linear and semi-interesting. it will keep you interested but if anything 
 tragic happens then you wont care
  
  Sound: fine no complaints
  
  Atmosphere: this game has atmosphere..... i can't explain what its like. It's just there
  
  
 Blood+Gore: Now let me say that this game is by far one of the most brutal and gorie games out 
 there. i sometimes have cringed at watching a raiders head explode from a point blank sniper shot. 
 This game in my point of view makes Gears of War 1+2 look petty in comparison
  
  The game does have some negative. like all the NPC reside in the uncanny valley. voice acting is 
 ok but at least it's a huge improvement over oblivions
  
  I extremely enjoyed this game i recommend it to anyone 14+ (just because below age 14 its not something 
 that is ummm healthy to look at frequently) and below the age of 79 ( just because i dont think 
 your heart could take it..... excluding war vets..... you have seen worse) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PdPstyle
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 22, 2008 10:33 am PT
Review:  I really liked this game at first. It has has amazing graphics *if you have a stonger PC or laptop* 
 and everything is well thought out and and well developed
  
  Everything in this game is top of the line, but for some reason I just cant get into this game. 
 I have clocked in plenty of hours playing sporadically but... I just cant do it. It gets stale. 
 I think its because the enviorment *while beautiful in its dead wastelandyness* is just too empty 
 for me, there is very little to interact with on your journeys apart from a the cities and the 
 random survives that litter the landscape. Dont get me wrong there is plenty to do and piles upon 
 piles of finly scripted events a player can stumble upon... it just feels dead and empty to me. 
 *granted this is intentional by the developers as the game takes place in a post-nuclear world*
 
  
  This game was well thought out and made wonderfully, I can appreciate that but for some it may 
 be too dead and dry. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tehfireballer
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 21, 2008 10:06 pm PT
Review:  This game is pretty cool i guess. The weapons are great, the gore is amazing, the blood effects 
 are good, I love V. A. T. S, and the choices involved make the so-called "purpose" of fable 2 seem 
 like nothing compared to this. So, right about now your probably asking "well whats wrong with 
 it then?" My answer to you is "well...."
  
  
  1. This game was developed by Bethesda. Need I say more? It has too many glitches to count. Also, 
 the graphics could honestly use some improvement. The elder scrolls IV engine is a little dated 
 for a 2008 release.
  
  
  2. This game is extremely punishing. I died about 30 times on EASY mode. Also, why is it so hard 
 to find a stimpack? Sure its a nuclear wasteland, but why make it so freaking hard to heal yourself???
 
  
  
  3. Its too short. I beat the main quest in about 10 hours. Also, no multiplayer makes me not even 
 want to put the disc back into my disc drive. Sure theres Tons of endings but.....
  
  
  4. THE ENDINGS SUCK! I don't care what anyone hear says, I HATED the ending i got. I mean really. 
 I felt like it summarized how i played and slapped me across the face and told me I was a horrible 
 person. WHO THE HELL MAKES AN ENDING LIKE THIS?!
  
  
  I'd definitely say rent this. Don't skip it, but dont buy it. Just rent it. Paying 5-10 dollars 
 for about 10 hours of entertainment isn't bad. Paying 60 dollars is... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DAAVV-O
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 22, 2008 5:02 am PT
Review:  First off, let me say that if you have ever played Bethesda's previous magnum opus, The Elder Scrolls: 
 Oblivion, then Fallout 3 will feel immediately familiar. From the beginning in the training 'dungeon', 
 to the intimidatingly large game world you are free to explore, you cannot help but draw comparisons 
 between the two. Fortunately, Fallout's style and prose help draw attention away from the obvious 
 similarities, and establish it as a masterpiece of game design all of its own.
  
  The plot is a fairly unemotional affair (as they generally are when you play as a mute protagonist) , 
 and involves the search for your Liam Neeson-voiced father, after he suddenly and mysteriously 
 leaves the underground vault in which you have spent your entire life. Once you are out in the 
 wasteland, you follow a string of leads to attempt to find him, and to discover the reason for 
 his leaving. Along the way you will also encounter opportunities to perform numerous side quests, 
 as well as make a number of moral decisions, the implications of which will affect the ending of 
 the game, as well as the way in which the inhabitants of the wastes perceive you. This is an excellent 
 way to allow for multiple play throughs, as being good or evil by nature can make for very different 
 game experiences.
  
  Character leveling takes the form of experience points given for different acts; whether it be 
 for combat victories, lockpicking, or computer hacking. With each level gained, certain perks can 
 be selected, and points assigned to various skills. I personally did my usual trick of trying to 
 create Garrett from the Thief series, donating all my points to the Sneak, Lockpick, and Speech 
 skills (and unlike my Oblivion-Garrett, this one actually worked!) The system works well as a whole, 
 but be warned - levels are capped at 20, so make your decisions carefully when leveling up! 
  
  Combat feels fairly standard for an FPS if you don't use the VATS system (kind of a 'pause 
 time, target specific body parts using hit points' affair') , but this feature allows for far more 
 strategic and enjoyable gameplay. There's nothing like seeing a Deathclaw on the horizon, taking 
 a long range manual sniper shot, then finishing him off using VATS and a hinting rifle at mid range. 
 All your weapons, possessions, and game information are managed via your pip-boy, that you wear 
 on your arm. This works perfectly, as well as being aesthetically suited to the overall feel of 
 the 50's theme adopted by the game.
  
  The graphics are solid, with textures standing up to close inspection, whilst maintaining an enviable 
 draw distance. There are also some genuinely awe-inspiring locations that have been given a fantastic 
 graphical treatment, like the Washington monument and other historic locations, as well as an aircraft 
 carrier that has run aground and become inhabited by nuclear survivors.
  
  The sound has (fortunately) been given much better treatment than Oblivion. There is plenty of 
 variety to character voices, and the voice acting itself seems of a much higher quality. The aforementioned 
 Liam Neeson does a fantastic job as the father figure, while the ever charismatic Malcolm McDowell 
 performs brilliantly as President Eden. Also worthy of mention is Ron Perlman, who does a stand 
 up job as narrator. There are also several memorable songs from the mid-twentieth century, that 
 do a superb job of conveying the feel and attitude of the period to you.
  The projectile weapons all sound clunky, but then again they're supposed to sound like they're 
 cobbled together and oft-maintained. The only qualm I have is with the energy weapons, which I 
 felt sounded a little underwhelming (then again, don't they always?)
  
  Overall, this is a huge, immersive, well conceived game, that will swallow large chunks of your 
 life without first notifying you that it is doing so. I have literally sat down at 7pm, and then 
 looked at the clock only to see that it is 2am, and I need to be up in five hours. Many of my friends 
 also hated me while playing Fallout, as they couldn't understand why I wasn't playing Gears 2. 
 The answer was simple - I felt this was a more compelling game experience.
  
  Anyone who liked Oblivion should immediately feel on familiar territory while playing this game, 
 but it should also appeal to a new segment of the western RPG market (after all, not everyone likes 
 elves and trolls) . DLC is due in three installments, so more is to come too! 
  
  In conclusion, this is yet another killer app, and there are very few reasons why you shouldn't 
 own it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skullandbones91
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 21, 2008 1:58 pm PT
Review:  Fallout 3 is an amazing game. My friend and I play it on his ps3. The combat is great the story 
 is awesome. it rocks it rocks it rocks it rocks it rocks it rocks it rocks it rocks it rocks it 
 rocksit rocks it rocks it rocks it rocks v it rocks it rocks it rocks it rocks it rocks it rocks 
 it rocks it rocks it rocks it rocks it rocks it rocks it rocks it rocks it rocks it rocks it rocks 
 it rocks it rocks it rocks it rocks it rocks it rocks it rocks it rocks it rocks it rocks it rocks 
 it rocks it rocks it rocks it rocks it rocks it rocks it rocks it rocks it rocks it rocks it rocks 
 it rocks it rocks it rocks it rocks it rocks it rocks it rocks it rocks it rocks it rocks it rocks 
 it rocks it rocks it rocks it rocks it rocks it rocks it rocks it rocks it rocks it rocks it rocks 
 it rocks it rocks it rocks it rocks it rocks it rocks it rocks it rocks it rocks it rocks it rocks 
 it rocks it rocks it rocks it rocks it rocks it rocks it rocks v v it rocks it rocks it rocks it 
 rocks it rocks it rocks it rocks it rocks v v it rocks it rocksit rocks it rocks v vit rocks it 
 rocksit rocks it rocks it rocks it rocks it rocks it rocks it rocks it rocks it rocksit rocks 
::::::

::::::
UserName: turbomx42
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 21, 2008 5:20 am PT
Review:  FALLOUT 3
  
  This game is remarkable. It starts out a little slow, but once it sucks you in you will never want 
 to stop playing. While the story is decent and the characters are well thought out, it is the detailed, 
 interactive, breath taking environment that steals the show in Fallout 3. 
  
  PRESENTATION: 
  
  This game looks damn good. The lighting is good, the enemies move fluidly, 
 but most importantly, it stays consistent. There are hundreds of locations and each contain all 
 the detail and content that you will ever want to discover and it always looks good. The blood 
 effects and the way your enemies are mutilated by your weapons is gloriously gruesome. The explosions 
 are very satisfying, and the water in the game looks just like water should; which most games today 
 fail to accomplish. 
  
  The highlight of the audio is definitely the music. The old fashioned tunes that play throughout 
 the game help add the the ambiance of a desolate and desecrated city. They can be creepy in a good 
 way or add a fun dimension to the brutal combat. 
  
  STORY/ENGAGEMENT:
  
  The story in Fallout 3 is not bad, but is really only about 30 percent of the games content. The 
 characters are pretty straight forward. They are not too deep, but they are vastly varied and colorful. 
 You will find evil, ignorance, pride, selfishness, greed, fear, and many other traits in the inhabitants 
 of the forsaken "wasteland". However, if you look hard enough, you will find some good people in 
 the wasteland too, this makes exploration rewarding and worth while. 
  
  This really is the type of environment that you can spend 100+ hours exploring and never get bored. 
 There are countless stories that accompany the many towns, caves, camps, vaults, settlements, etc. 
 Once you realize the depth of the mysteries in Fallout 3, you will want to keep exploring until 
 you have seen everything. 
  
  GAMEPLAY: 
  
  Overall, Fallout 3 plays like a typical RPG, *cough Oblivion cough*. The character controls well 
 offering both third person view and a first person perspective. I would recommend using the first 
 person view, but both are decent. The main point as far as gameplay goes is the V. A. T. S. system. 
 This allows you to stop the action, cycle through enemies, and then select a specific body part 
 that you want to attack. This really makes fighting in the game fun, since you can experiment with 
 the results of attacking each body part. 
  
  VALUE: 
  
  I think that it is plain to see that this game is worth 60 bucks and more. You will get countless 
 hours of enjoyment from this game and it has great replay value as well. If you have not played 
 this game go and buy it, don't bother renting, this one is a keeper. 
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: majorracoon
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 20, 2008 11:26 am PT
Review:  Its just amazing! Even though the world isn't as big as oblivion, it sure a hell feels like it. 
 There a huge assortment of weapons and you can actully create your own! No really..... The charater 
 creation option is great. It lets you do anything you want to do and it's not to complicated. The 
 enemys can eitther be extremely easy to chuck your controller difficult. Even though it may not 
 be a straight up first person shooter like CoD4 or Halo3, it doesn't have to be. You also have 
 something thats called VATS which in a press of a button you can control which part of the enemy's 
 body you want to target. It's quite rewarding and is VERY gory at some points. Trust me, this is 
 not a game for kids in two ways. The difficulty (which will vary with skill level.) and the explicit 
 content. Body parts fly if you have a certain perk (Like CoD4 perks.) and there id foul language 
 everywhere. There is no nudity but there is sexual references used quite a bit. There is a big 
 line if you either want to swear and put in the sexual content, but there is really no way of stopping 
 the gore. The gore insent really the worst part. Lot's of people make it worse than it actully 
 is, but like I said, it is not a game for kids. It's just great, there are a few bugs here and 
 there but there it doesn't make a big deal in the 120 hour game (that includes side-quests.) A 
 must-play for everyone! Enjoy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: andywongusa
Rating: 1
Date: Dec 19, 2008 11:22 am PT
Review:  It was tedious when wandering the boundless wasteland with some ugly and useless enemies to shoot 
 wasting several rounds of bullets and then entered some more desolate place or building to find 
 some old and crappy guys to make different long journeys. What I actually complained was just the 
 combat system VATS.
  
  It did not offer me any pleasure when shooting some ugly guys since the shooting system VATS was 
 kind of automatically selecting the targets without any strategy or even practice of game pad so 
 it was not fun at all and the animation of shooting was also fake and unrealistic. More annoyingly 
 without VATS, the shooting became very tough and the enemies moved so fast and were unlike any 
 FPS enemies at all. When playing the game, every moves in the game reminded me of the gameplay 
 of Oblivion without the boring shooting system.
  
  However the melee and weapon system in Oblivion was way better than Fallout 3. Actually F3 was 
 trying to become a FPS advantage but the pity was F3 cannot escape the mechanical combat system 
 of Oblivion. The enemies in F3 were as aggressive as in Oblivion, however, F3 did not have any 
 resemblance to FPS genre at all and became more like a crappy adventure game with a first person 
 perspective. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bo0m3r
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 18, 2008 8:30 pm PT
Review:  Fallout 3 was something I had high hopes for and I was not disappointed one bit. For months and 
 months my friends had mentioned this new RPG that was supposed to be Oblivion with guns, and all 
 these innovative ridiculous things. They were right.
  Since it was quite the buzz I immediately went to my local Game Stop and pre-ordered the game. 
 Upon release I believe I played the game a total of 16 hours non-stop because this game will sink 
 a hook in you so deep you'll remember as you walk to your car and turn the lock the next morning 
 thinking, "Oh yeah I have to get my lock picking skill up today so I can see what was in that safe!"
 
  Apart from the seemingly endless world of mutants, raiders and hidden goodies, the game is exceptional 
 at everything it tries. From Combat with the new V. A. T. S. ( Vault-Tech Assisted Targeting System 
 ) system to character customization and dramatic storytelling, the game will make you believe that 
 you are an all powerful super being sent to rule the wasteland. So long as you're on a low difficulty 
 and know how to survive. This game can be as hard as winning against a giant hungry scorpion with 
 nowhere to run an nothing but the clothes on your back, or it can be like shooting fish in a barrel 
 with a combat shotgun. The guys over at Bethesda have created a monster. A very very fun to play 
 with yet life stealing monster.
  The combat in Fallout 3 is mostly centered around the V. A. T. S. system, and this is no fault, because 
 lets face it, how else are you going to be able to shoot down seven mutants in seven shots without 
 the ability to pause time and receive percentile information about who's head is worth turning 
 into bits of mutated flesh. Oh, did I mention the gore in this game? Simply put, there's a lot, 
 a whole lot. Fortunately, whether you want to stay back and pick em' off as a well trained sniper, 
 go in guns blazing with missiles, mini-nukes and SMGs, or even sneak up with stealth and beat your 
 opponent's head in with a baseball bat. Fallout 3 has all you need, and more.
  The character building side to Fallout allows users to customize the skills and attributes they 
 want to aid them in their particular style of play. On a lower difficulty everyone may find themselves 
 a bit more alike toward the upper levels, but on harder modes the game forces you to excel in a 
 few specific areas so that when in the face of danger, you have at least some hope.
  The few objections I did have with this game are that there is no, what we've come to call, "Play-Through 
 Plus". So unfortunately, the end of the game, is the end of the game, you'll have to load from 
 an earlier save if you want to continue developing that character. Also, the houses could have 
 been a bit well, more overall... Is it just me or for going evil are you punished by not getting 
 a toilet? Someone let me know. 
  Though I did love the different themes and things you could do with your home, I felt I would have 
 liked the opportunity to make my house something that I want to show off to all my friends. Honestly 
 though, they made the game huge for a reason, you shouldn't spend all your time in one spot, every 
 bit of irradiated ground deserves to be stepped on and explored. Great job Bethesda. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AK_the_Twilight
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 18, 2008 2:05 pm PT
Review:  Let me get this out of the way first: I'm not a fan of Western RPG's. I've always been a fan of 
 Eastern RPG's from companies like Square-Enix and Nippon Ichi. I've been hooked on Kingdom Hearts 
 and Disgaea before, but never took a liking to the collection of Dungeons-and-Dragons style RPG's 
 outside of the Land of the Rising Sun. However, Fallout 3 has officially severed my disbelief in 
 the Western RPG market. With a tremendous world to explore and plenty of things to do, Fallout 
 3 is one Western RPG that even the most loyal of JRPG fans should definitely check out. It's remarkable 
 in a multitude of ways and could well be the most unique twist on the RPG formula in a long, long 
 time.
  
  Fallout 3 takes place in an alternate reality where nuclear warfare has left the surface of Washington 
 D. C. a barren wasteland. A select few have been safely hidden away in the enigmatic world of Vault 
 101, a secluded safe haven where society has continued beneath the scarred earth and the outside 
 world has become off limits. Your story picks up at birth, where you select your gender, and as 
 time slowly passes, you get to choose your abilities along with taking an odd test to determine 
 personal fortes. The game quickly fast-forwards to a point when your father escapes Vault 101, 
 causing chaos beneath the surface. The game truly begins when you follow the clues and enter the 
 outside world. It's up to you to discover why your father left Vault 101 and the secrets of the 
 Wasteland. With the storylines of most RPG's being saturated with classic fantasy elements (like 
 Bethesda's legendary series, Elder Scrolls) seeing the new world of Fallout 3 is absolutely stunning. 
 Not only is it different, but it's so haunting and the cryptic story only serves to make the world 
 more realized.
  
  Exploring Fallout 3 is best performed in first-person, as the third-person gameplay is clunky and 
 just doesn't work. The camera appears around the character's backside, similar to Resident Evil 
 4, but exploring that way is slow and inconsistent. Stick to first-person, because the controls 
 shine here. Pressing B brings up the Pip-boy, your typical set of menus and screens showing stats, 
 equipment, and the like. Your character can jump, reload firearms and interact with the environment 
 with the face buttons, with the triggers being used for attacking and defending. The first-person 
 abilities are similar to other RPG's, but the introduction of firearms adds some interesting twists. 
 Pressing the right bumper brings up the unique V. A. T. S. system, a way to pinpoint targets and attack 
 specific limbs for damage at the expense of AP, the points spent during V. A. T. S. attacks. On the 
 whole, Fallout 3 is a unique spin on past RPG works but retains many of the accessible aspects 
 of the controls, making a game that's easy to jump into, but deep enough to experiment frequently.
 
  
  Many games have attempted the good-evil distinction in the storyline, and while a select few have 
 nailed it, it still hasn't been perfected. Fortunately, Fallout 3 comes pretty damn close; the 
 good-evil parallels actually make a serious impact in your adventure through Fallout 3's world. 
 The game introduces the Karma system, where expectedly, your actions determine how people approach 
 you. You can be the good guy by helping out people, killing the bad guys, or running errands for 
 folks. Conversely, you can be the bad guy by stealing items, picking locks, and being a typical 
 badass. What is so impressive about this concept in Fallout 3 is that practically everything makes 
 a difference. The game literally will show moment after moment where you must make a serious choice. 
 Sometimes you're forced to make a decision on the fly, which can be a bit annoying. Being out of 
 the control seat can be distracting, but the game offers plenty of reasons to visit Fallout 3 again. 
 What would happen if you didn't kill that civilian or you decided to lockpick that secret hideout? 
 These "what if" situations make incredible difference throughout the course of the game and seeing 
 how the interactions change from your decisions is remarkable to say the least. There are so many 
 opportunities to see this concept in action and the end result is a thought-provoking and versatile 
 world to explore with plenty of things to do.
  
  Which brings us to what is quite possibly the best part about Fallout 3: the depth. The depth of 
 Fallout 3 is absolutely astounding. Within the first couple of hours, the player is introduced 
 to combat, stats, lockpicking, conversations, hacking terminals, repairing items, and much more. 
 The depth runs further than simple things to do, as the world is easy to manipulate. Pick up an 
 item and use it to power-up a weapon. Sneak up behind an enemy to stealthily get a quick shot on 
 them. The fact that Bethesda has made the world of Fallout 3 so jam-packed with things to do is 
 kind of overwhelming. However, once you get a majority of the gameplay concepts under your belt, 
 the game can be incredibly fun to play. Fallout 3 doesn't accomplish every single mechanic flawlessly, 
 though; the combat (though visceral and great to watch) relies a bit too much on the stats, which 
 can make the gameplay a bit inconsistent at times. But if you can see pass the slight problems, 
 the epic storyline and massive collection of side-quests will keep the world of Fallout 3 feeling 
 fresh and expansive. There really is no RPG world as defining and tremendous as Fallout 3.
  
  Technically, Fallout 3 was supposed to push the 360 to its absolute limits, but it just doesn't 
 get that far. It's impressive to see such an expansive overworld to explore. Though the world is 
 known as The Wasteland, it quite honestly isn't. The structural differences are amazing; a destroyed 
 bridge still stands, some buildings become mini-dungeons. Despite its name, the game's overworld 
 produces a surprising amount of diversity. There are a few glitches, however; the game expends 
 a lot of its graphical energy into the world itself, but the technical issues still manage to press 
 through. The conversational moments do feel a bit mechanical as well, but considering the overall 
 scope of the presentation, it's a minor complaint. The sound design is also very well done. The 
 voice acting, though a bit cheesy at times, brings the story together in emotional and inventive 
 ways. It's not the most stunning of 360 titles; the technical glitches and slightly askew voice 
 acting can be distracting, but once you dive into Fallout 3's tremendous world, it's very tough 
 to get out.
  
  Pros
  + Captivating story offers plenty of thought-provoking themes
  + Interesting mix of action and stat-tracking
  + Expansive world is huge and full of things to 
 do
  + Plenty of unique gameplay mechanics that work well together
  + Actions actually affect gameplay and dialogue
  
  Cons
  - Technical issues distract from 
 incredible environments
  - Shooting relies more on stats than skill
  - Conversation sequences feel mechanical and slow
  - Third-person mode is awful
  
  Fallout 
 3 stands tall amongst the rubble, being much more than the sum of its many, many parts. Its remarkably 
 inventive approach to both action and RPG gameplay makes for some visceral intensity and plenty 
 of exciting encounters. But even when you're not shooting the limbs off of mutated monsters, Fallout 
 3 has an incredible amount of things to do. The conversational pieces feel mechanical and the combat 
 isn't flawless, but it'll be difficult to see another RPG this year that really stuns the player 
 the way Fallout 3 does. Even if you haven't played the former Fallout games or even other Bethesda 
 RPG's like Oblivion, Fallout 3 is still worth exploring. There's enough diversity in the game to 
 satisfy even the most easily-distracted of gamers, and considering how inventive the story and 
 gameplay are, it's safe to say that Fallout 3 is one of the hugest and most creative of RPG's released 
 this year. It's not perfect, but Fallout 3 is one hell of a package, filled with unique gameplay 
 elements and plenty of things to do. It's definitely worth a purchase, even to jaded gamers who 
 are sick and tired of hacking at orcs or casting Curaga on their teammates. Pick up Fallout 3 today.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: P_R_E_Y
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 18, 2008 8:36 am PT
Review:  Fallout 3, i haven't really fell out with it yet but ha ha.
  bad jokes aside this game really is oblivion with guns, which has some good points, but bad ones 
 aswell.
  Very clechy story that all should know and well have gotten used to, mind you starting a game poping 
 out you know where is a first lol. But story shouldn't stop you getting this game.
  Graphics some what are much improved i mean it is a stunning looking peice of work.... if not too 
 littered. I have sometimes tried to find my way and theres being too much depbree to see whats 
 where, But it is lacking on main charracter graphics. It has kept the same animations from Oblivion, 
 although i play first perons 99.9% of the time your guy doesnt seem well animated to me. upper 
 half always facing the camera (aka away from the camera to what ur pointing at) which makes jumps 
 look odd, and even running side was is a little bit annoying to look at but bearable.
  Universe wise i don't know much about this is my first Fallout game, but i do feel that they lost 
 the Oblivion charm, Free Roam. This seems to linear and set out. I understand they didn't expect 
 a game this big but it still seems restricted. You cant take shortcuts like you could in Oblivion, 
 although really hard and depends where you are doing it, but if i wanted to go somewhere beyond 
 a cliff... i'll try to scale it, but in this there is too many invisable walls on this well u could 
 actually climb.
  Action, well you get your moments, but it isn't as actiony as Oblivion. Running up and either sticking 
 a knife in the back of his head or chopping it off with a glass sword. Shooting has its tense moments 
 when there is about 4 guys more heavilly armed than u pointing and firing at you. but hide a wee 
 bit... aim at the door to roughly head height and get a shotgun or something just as strong and 
 wait, they'l come. the new VATs system is well a bonus but nothing really special to show to your 
 mum.
  Economy.... in real life i spend before i even earn, now unless that carries over to my games i 
 seem to be struggling financially in this.... who would have thought it would be so hard to get 
 bottlecaps? well i am struggling. plus it isn't cheap to repair your guns either so that doesn't 
 really help matter either considering the ones you find from enimes (which is where i get most 
 of mine as i gont have enough to buy new) are always.... well broken.
  Ok there is melee weapons, but i cannot get full use out of them
  as they seem so weak, the shishcabab 
 (i can't be bothered with spelling no one will read this anyway so just ignore it) seems pretty 
 cool but i haven't got the caps to get the parts.
  Time to tie this up, Fallout is a good game and has minor flaws to boot but what doesnt? good game 
 and if you are an oblivion fan you can't go much wrong with this but remeber... it is guns. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OICWUTUDIDTHAR
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 23, 2009 10:30 pm PT
Review:  Well it's been about.. eleven years since the last Fallout game? About time someone picked up the 
 series, God.
  
  I've played the other two Fallout games when they first came out, I have to say they actually feel 
 really different from this one for obvious reasons. I thought they were great but I was never really 
 a fan of them, I guess because other games took me away, but they were really different from anything 
 else I had ever played, lots of variety. Now when I heard about a Fallout 3 coming out, I never 
 really gave in to the hype at all, I was still hoping it would turn out great, but to be honest 
 it didn't really matter to me. And now it's here, and I have to say it met all my expectations, 
 but nothing more than that.
  
  Let's get this thing started already:
  
  Good:
  
  -Good voice acting
  -Unique combat system
  -Huge open world
  -Feel's like you're really in 
 this wasteland
  -Good challenge, but never gets too rough
  -A good sense of morality, everything you do changes the world and things that go on around you.
 
  -Music sets the tone perfectly
  -Decent graphics by this gen's standards
  -Very good customizable stats and skills
  -Little perks here and there that are appreciative
 
  -Tons of extras and hidden goodies.
  -Great gore and blood that feels realisticly done.
  -Great quests, that are long as well.
  -Decent story, enough to give you an excuse to blow stuff 
 up.
  
  
  Bad:
  
  -Graphics can sometimes look jagged in a few areas.
  -Not enough variety of baddies to kill.
  -Some glitches, and the game can freeze once in a while, 
 no matter what condition your Xbox or PS3 is in. (Not sure about PC though) .
  -Facial expressions don't match what their saying or their emotions when a character is talking 
 a lot of the time.
  -The game is short to actually beat, and all the endings also feel short
  -Not enough optional 
 quests
  -Some of the perks are useless
  -Combat takes some getting use to, and even so can still feel pretty clumsy (But still very satisfying) .
 
  -Won't feel addictive to everyone.
  
  
  
  One problem that really didn't matter to me but what might matter to others, it that the game feels 
 a lot, maybe a little too much like Oblivion, yes I know you've heard this about a thousand times, 
 I've never actually played Oblivion til after I played Fallout 3, at my friends' place, and that 
 sense of exploration feels exactly the same, just without guns. I can't say which one I like more, 
 I didn't play it all the way through.
  
  Something that is nice to know is that you don't need to know anything about the past Fallout games 
 to enjoy this one, so if you're a new comer this one is still great, the learning curve is a little 
 steep though and so is the unique combat style, but once you get the hang of it, you should love 
 it, but there's a small chance you'll be with the crowd hates it, I actually think it just looks 
 really cool and immerses you with the environment even more, targetting body parts and blasting 
 them off has never felt so satisfying and gory before. One other complaint is that sometimes pulling 
 out your weapon or gunshots will feel delayed and therefore mess with the combat. The merge of 
 FPS and roleplaying gameplay was done really well here though.
  
  The graphics look good, but nothing amazing, there's plenty of other titles that look better than 
 Fallout 3 on the 360 and PS3. I don't even know why the PS3 version doesn't look as good as the 
 360 version. The lighting effects look cool, what you'd expect from a next gen game. The colors 
 are dark and mostly grayish to brown for the areas, depressing like the game and the story itself, 
 along with the music. I don't really blame it for not having out of this world graphics with such 
 a huge overworld, I'm sure the game would freeze way too much with that, least the gameplay makes 
 up for it for the most part, along with the immersiveness. One other thing I'd like to mention 
 is the design, the design is great, there's only a few areas that look slightly bland, but other 
 than that, I've never even seen a wasteland that looked this good in any other game, real life 
 probably doesn't even look as good.
  
  There's lots of choices and variety in this game, the only thing that would've made this better 
 was adding more side quests and such. But besides that, all of the variety, different skill options 
 and upgrades, the perks, the extra areas, being able to change the world based on what you do, 
 act the way you want to act, add so much replay value. There's only a few games that can match 
 up to the replay value of Fallout 3. This has to be my favorite part of this game.
  
  The music in the game matches the darkness tone pretty damn well, helped with the immersive feeling 
 a lot, while the music isn't something you'd listen to on your free time like from other games 
 and isn't a masterpiece, it does it's job better than most game's music. The sound of the guns 
 are great, but once in a while the sounds come off delayed, I'm not sure if it's some kind of occasional 
 glitch or a lag I got a couple of times during my playthroughs... Either way it can feel really 
 disorienting because they were around like a one second delay. Just made me wonder what the HELL 
 just happened? The voice acting is great, they really did hire a good team, but there were some 
 times where the voice acting (Done intentionally) felt really drawn out, slowly. Not sure if that's 
 a good thing because it adds to that depressing feeling, best not to think to deep about it... 
 Other problem is that sometimes when the characters talk their facial expression barely changes, 
 not fitting the situation or what they're saying, so it takes a way a little from that immersive 
 factor.
  
  I don't want to say anything about the story, just incase you've never played this (Although if 
 you're reading there's a chance you have) . You spend the beginning of the game growing up as a 
 child, underground (Tutorial) , then when you hit around nineteen, stuff happens that I don't want 
 to spoil, and you find yourself in the wasteland above ground, and that's when your character's 
 goal, and the game, really begins, and as soon as it does, you'll be thinking to yourself it's 
 time to blow sh** up. The story itself is decent, but there's no plot twist like in other games, 
 or any shocking moments, which is a big disapointment for me, I'm kind of into that.
  
  So should you buy Fallout 3? If you're a fan, stop reading this review, it's December right now 
 writing this and you STILL haven't gotten this game? Stop reading and buy it if you're a real Fallout 
 fan. If you're new to the series and are interested in something different, an FPS RPG in an open 
 world, then yeah, it's a buy. If your skeptical, I say maybe burrow it or rent it first, just incase 
 you're not easily satisfied, but even so, there's a big chance you'll like this game at least the 
 way I did, if not, much more.
  
  Overall I think this is a great accomplishment of a game, and it's always nice to see an old game 
 come back strong. For me, it's not my Game of the Year, but there's a chance that Fallout 3 can 
 be your game of the year. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CrashMacKenzie
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 16, 2008 7:09 pm PT
Review:  Wow. Has it really been 40+ hours? 
  
  Time flies when your nuking towns, torching raiders, slaughtering slavers, sledgehammering Super 
 Mutants and/or bringing the Pint-Sized Slasher to life. 
  
  In short, having a freakin blast!
  
  Fallout 3 is an open world roleplaying game from Bethesda 
 Softworks, the guys that gave us the excellent Elder Scroll IV: Oblivion. It takes place in post-apocalyptic 
 Washington D. C. It follows the exploits of the lone traveler from Vault 101. (i. e. You)
  
  Your character has lived they're whole lives in an underground shelter called a vault. However, 
 after they're father leaves, they journey into the unknown and unforgiving Capital Wasteland to 
 find him.
  
  First, let's knock out the few bad things in the game. The graphics are unimpressive and the main 
 story was just decent.
  
  Ok, now that we've dealt with that; the setting is great (a true hallmark of Bethesda) , the voice 
 acting is solid, he gameplay, especially the V. A. T. S. System, was fun, the perks were cool, there 
 are tons of locations to discover and sidequests to perform and the overall experience was very 
 immersive.
  
  Now, as I'm getting ready to go back in for another few dozen hours, let's go to The Simps-o-meter.
 
  
  Presentation: Excellent
  Gameplay: Woohoo!
  Story: Excellent
  Polish: Woohoo!
  
  Overall: Excellent 
::::::

::::::
UserName: moonknight518
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 16, 2008 2:15 pm PT
Review:  Love everything about this game. Bethesda basically cleaned up the bugs from the Elder Scrolls' 
 gameplay engine (slow loading times, constant freezing etc) , added a few important layers of choice 
 and humanitarianism into the mix and packaged it in a post apocolyptic setting. 
  
  The artwork and dialogue are fantastic and most imporatantly it has great replayability. I also 
 really enjoyed the mature themes in the game from the story to its dialogue, definitely not a game 
 you want to play with kids watching. 
  
  My only knock on the game is that the main quest is a little short and the side quest are not overly 
 engaging (as compared to the side quests in Oblivion) . There also could have been a wider choice 
 of weapons, but all of these knocks are not distracting enough to take anything away from the overall 
 experience. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: streetgame
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 16, 2008 3:22 am PT
Review:  This is how i invision a roleplaying game should be. Open ended. You get thrown out the vault and 
 BAM no clue what to do but explore, talk to ppl, collect things and sell in trade and quest and 
 kill for xp. Tons of things to see and do. Graphics are awesome. GNR is a cool little feature, 
 great how he talks about ya from time to time and gives ya clues as to where to go. Able to adjust 
 the difficultly any time. Lots of places to explore and some you cant get to until your skills 
 are high enough. Able to make your toon many different ways with skill sets like sniper, hacker, 
 thief, etc.. Music and surroundings really tie in with the story line / time line of when this 
 event took place. Its really a fresh idea for a game instead of the same old shooter. Having to 
 repair your items and scrounge for things makes it believeable. Replay value for a game is a huge 
 thing for me. I dont like the roleplay ones you play once, can only play one way and your done. 
 One and done, boring. I love this freakin game only way i could have gone off the charts is having 
 multiplayer co-op. Great job, keep em coming!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pnkmastr
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 15, 2008 5:18 pm PT
Review:  the game was very good... i admit i never thought it would have been so great.... the only reason 
 i even bought it at first was because i had extra cash to spend at gamestop and they recomended 
 me this game.... i didnt expect i would actually enjoy it this much i had to lend it to my friend 
 just to keep myself from playing it..... that was my first ever rpg game.. i havent even beaten it 
 and i am close but it is very good of a game and rightfully deserves a good score and respect from 
 all people who play it... his is a good mixture of blood and gore with rpg style gameplay atleast 
 its mainly free roaming.... it has wonderful places to explore and really is very long i have only 
 founded so many places and still have more than half way to go.... the enemies are sometimes overwhelming 
 and yes the auto save feature does kind of ruin it time to time but its pretty simple to just make 
 a seperate save to continue from if you have doubt to survive in certain areas... i for one will 
 keep playing this game for a very long time (thank you) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DerekLStinson
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 15, 2008 3:57 pm PT
Review:  I am not much of a writer so I will kind of go through the goods then the bads.
  *GOOD
  -Graphics are good, 
  -Story is great. Never have been pulled into a story in a game quite like 
 this.
  -Weapons for the most part are quite satisfying
  -Everything is webbed together like it is in real life
  
  *BAD
  -The graphics these types 
 of games really need to be updated with more destructible surfaces and physics. There is no reason 
 for a game nowadays to have these seemingly indestructible structures unless it is completely key 
 to the game.
  -Game play can be bland. It feels like you are just floating through the game kind of like a dream. 
 Not like your concrete in it like in game such as Fable 2, GOW, COD, 
  -The game plays too much like Oblivion. So it has that feeling like I've been there done that.
 
  -Although the stat system seems complicated it really isn't, and some perks are absolutely worthless. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ranger0694
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 15, 2008 1:08 pm PT
Review:  It is a very fun game that takes up a lot of time and is very immersive and innovative. It is a 
 very long game with tons of side quests you can do, and the option to just roam around. On the 
 other hand it is a very hard game and you need to like the style of gameplay if you want to be 
 good at it. The thing that I got stuck on was when I lossed all my health and could only find one 
 or two stimpacks which didn't help me out very much. When you have guys shooting at you from all 
 directions, even with the VATS targeting systems ability to stop time it is still very hard considering 
 you only can only use it a certain amount of times. These parts are very frusterating but onceyou 
 get the hang of the game you may like it. Now there are some people who just simply don't like 
 the game, some games similar to it are Oblivion, the previouse Fallouts, and Shivering Isles. If 
 you didn't like these games or were not good at them, you are probly not going to like Fallout 
 3 just because it is very similar to these. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: llyte_1up
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 14, 2008 8:39 pm PT
Review:  Because RPGs are the best, I've always thought that the perfect game would be Oblivion set in the 
 future instead of mideaval times. Introducing Fallout 3. It's not perfect, but it's close enough. 
 This game looks excellent, sounds excellent and plays excellent. It offers all the freedom and 
 depth you would expect and even more variety.
  
  Most importantly, (for me anyway) Fallout 3 has incredible replay value. There are tons of ways 
 to complete quests and most have entirely different directions based on your decision, but playing 
 again will mainly be because of the character you choose. Because you only have 20 levels to reach, 
 you can't max out all of your skills so it's a good idea to decide what class of character you 
 want to be before you start so you can focus on major skills. When you can max out all of your 
 class skills and corresponding attributes, the game becomes alot easier and alot more fun and interesting 
 than if you're even in everything. 
  
  There's plenty to do in Fallout 3 because the world is huge and there's so many interesting and 
 useful things to discover. Trekking across the outskirts (and interiors) of D. C. is very time consuming 
 but worthwhile because it's half the fun of playing this game.
  
  Exploring the impressively large Wasteland is both fun and somewhat frightening. Ah, the suspense 
 of being stranded in the middle of nowhere, far from any non-hostile settlements after the sun 
 goes down and your legs are crippled with only one more stimpack and you have no idea who or what's 
 sniffed you out...
  
  Combat is also awesome because it's brutal. Melee combat is deeply satisfying... and messy. Splattering 
 an enemy's brains all over the screen with a baseball bat or chopping them into pieces with a one-handed 
 chainsaw or setting them on fire AND chopping them to pieces at the same time with something called 
 a Shishkebab are all alot of fun and really cool. Ranged combat is just as cool. Targeting specific 
 body parts in V. A. T. S. allows you to strategically pick apart your enemies through their strengths 
 and weaknesses. This adds alot of variety to the game because rather than just blowing the hell 
 out of everything like we do in every FPS, we need to focus on surviving the encounter by blasting 
 the kneecap off of that sledgehammer wielding Super Mutant charging at us. Or we can take his arm 
 off so he can't carry his weapon anymore. The problem I have with the combat is that the weapons 
 aren't very futuristic, The best gun in the game is the Combat Shotgun and it looks ancient and 
 doesn't do anything special.
  
  The visuals are great in Fallout 3, especially when you see an explosion in the distance. There's 
 alot of detail to the environments and yet only a few graphical issues here and there. Sound effects 
 are nice and voice acting is actually very good. 
  
  Fallout 3 looks and sounds awesome, it's fun to play and it's definitely replayable. It's easily 
 worth the money and I guarantee you will spend alot of time on it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NeoGen85
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 14, 2008 11:36 am PT
Review:  What can I say? Fallout 3 is a roleplaying that shouldn't be missed by any fan of the genre. It's 
 definitely one of the most immersive games this year, and has enough ambition to be Game of the 
 Year. At times Fallout 3 feels like it's more then just a game. The atmosphere is certainly haunting; 
 you rather play Fallout 3 then think about it. With that said, the game brings on some conflicting 
 and genuine emotions. On top of that there's Washington D. C. to explore, an array of goodies to 
 collect, and people to meet. Not to mention combat has never been so satisfying. It definitely 
 wears its mature rating with pride, but the violence is done exactly right. To simply put it, this 
 is one adventure not to be miss.
  
  In Fallout 3 about 200 years ago the world has fallen victim to all out nuclear war. Now the remnants 
 of Earth are trying to peace their reality back to the way it was. But civilization (or what's outside 
 of it) isn't going to allow that to happen so easily. The population is spread thin, Mother Nature 
 has died or become diseased; and structures of men have turned into ruins. But your lucky ancestors 
 were able to reserve space in one of Vaultec's Vaults right before DC went up in a mushroom cloud. 
 To be more specific, Vault 101; and the outside world is unknown to you.
  
  The game starts you off literally coming out between your mother's legs where you create your character, 
 and there are plenty of options to do so. You will proceed along to the tutorial where each part 
 of it is a specific moments throughout your childhood. You'll learn about movement and statistics 
 as a baby. Childhood will teach you how to use a firearm with a BB gun as well as accessing the 
 menu with your PITBOY, and at the age of 16 you'll choose a profession based off of a test. Once 
 your character becomes of age the adventure begins. In short, your father leaves Vault 101 causing 
 mayhem in the facility. It's your job to find out where he's going, and why.
  
  Once you step outside of the vault you immediately feel a bit vulnerable. The Wastelands in D. C. 
 has turned into the old west, but everything is more deadly. You can literally feel the low morale 
 in this place. With that said early on in Fallout 3, the game is going to put you in situations 
 where you'll make the decision to tough it out or go desperate. It's more then just good and bad; 
 it's all in between. 
  
  Everything has almost been affected by radiation including water, food, and you'll even find irradiated 
 areas. You have to keep your health up sometimes. But by consuming some of the available products 
 you'll get closer to radiation sickness (and even death) . This is all monitored on a meter; and 
 if it gets critical you can die. But you can find armor and consumables that increase your resistance 
 to it as well as heal radiation sickness.
  
  Combat is fairly basic at first. It's pretty much like a first person shooter. But stats can govern 
 how well you aim, long distance shooting, damage, and even proficiency with specific weapons. Using 
 the VATS system adds a more stable RPG environment. It will pause the gameplay allowing you to 
 select specific body parts. Each section has its own durability, and doing enough damage to a limb 
 hinders the enemy. For example, taking aim at the enemy's arms can drop his weapon or you can target 
 his firearm to make it useless. This works vice-versa on the player. Enemies can do damage to your 
 limbs, and if you do not take care of your own body you'll become cripple. It can affect you aiming, 
 sight, and speed. But don't forget while aiming at your enemy, you can also take target destructible 
 objects in your environment.
  
  The VATS system is also very well animated. You'll see the bullet fly from the barrel of the weapon 
 and take limbs off your opponent. Or better yet, throw a nuke grenade in a crowd of enemy raiders, 
 and watch them take to the skies. Of course you get a certain amount of points to use VATS, but 
 once they're gone you'll have to wait for them to regenerate. The actual FPS portion of the game 
 is very basic. You aim and shoot with the ability to crouch for more accuracy. Melee and unarmed 
 combat are very hard to defend with since shields do not exist in this game (like Oblivion) . Also, 
 with the VATS system you can't target body parts with melee weapons, only the entire target. But 
 with the diversity of weapons combat is so sweet.
  
  There are 20 experience levels to gain. With each level you'll be able to assign points to raise 
 your skills so pick wisely. You'll also be able to choose a perk which can further improve your 
 skills, or give your special attributes. Much like Oblivion you'll have access to several different 
 skills. You have sneak and lock picking which are very self explanatory. Various weapon skills 
 like energy weapons, explosives, and small guns. Not to mention repair, medicine, and science (computer 
 hacking) amongst many others. Depending on your main skills and attributes you'll gain alternative 
 dialogue to choose from. If the intelligence attribute is a priority for your character, you'll 
 definitely be able to respond to some characters with more intellectual answers to persuade them. 
 Or if you focus in medicine, instead of collecting medical supplies for someone else to save a 
 life (or finding a doctor) you can do it yourself.
  
  The menu's resemble that past Bethesda games, and are easy to navigate through. There is the addition 
 of the radio feature on the PITBOY allowing you to pick up nearby radio frequencies. You can listen 
 to music, receive vital information, and it even reveals new quests. Speaking of quests, there 
 are a number of different assignments you can take on. Each of them providing enough versatility 
 when it comes to providing morale decisions. A lot of the choices you get will greatly affect how 
 the world treats you, and that is important. You'll have the chance to nuke an entire town, enslave 
 people, be a bigot, do drugs, &*%%, murder, pickpocket, slide a grenade into someone's pocket, 
 and pretty much anything else unhealthy for the soul. But of course those who are afraid and weak 
 are always looking for a hero. At the same time there's the middle as well; you could enslave criminals.
 
  
  To a extent Fallout 3 does leave you wanting more. In comparison to any other roleplaying game 
 out on the market, Fallout 3 does provide 50+ hours of gameplay. The reality of it is that the 
 main quest is short, and if you decide to stick with that given storyline things do not feel as 
 epic. Bethesda encourages you to explore and do the other quests available to create your own story. 
 You'll encounter some interesting characters and situations. There's also more ways to complete 
 any given quest. Again, exploring is suggested and quite rewarding (especially if you're a resident 
 of the North Virginia/DC area) .
  
  The graphics in Fallout 3 stand out! This is definitely the best looking post apocalyptic world 
 ever designed. It is indeed beautiful in it's own horrific way especially in high definition. The 
 character models are quite impressive; they have just as much grunge as the environment. Bethesda 
 really made a believable world of destruction, especially in downtown D. C. The sound design is 
 even more impressive. From the music on the radio, NPC chatter (especially the Super Mutants) , sounds 
 of ghouls in the subways, and the explosive weaponry. Everything has its edge, and it all provides 
 an immersive experience. There are some clipping issues, and sometimes textures do not load right 
 away.
  
  Even with all this available in Fallout 3, the world does feel quite empty. I am not talking about 
 the population of humanity present in the game, but actual content. Sure, the game does provide 
 more then enough gameplay. Perhaps more then the majority of games on the market. But there aren't 
 any factions or guilds to join; and there really isn't any alternative gameplay to what's been 
 advertised. Besides modeling your home, or creating weapons out of random items found in the world (which 
 is very cool) . In comparison to Oblivion, Fallout 3 does not have the same amount of content. Personally, 
 I believe there could have been much more. Considering the importance of family, and the presence 
 of children in this games. It would have been nice to have your own, especially since you'll run 
 into many homeless children hiding from whatever (Grayditch anyone?) . It may not be too significant 
 but things like that just add more to the experience.
  
  If you own a good PC, I definitely recommend picking up the Windows version. You'll have more options 
 when it comes to downloading content from the mod community. But if you're stuck with a console 
 the Xbox 360 version is more refined then the Playstation 3. Plus Microsoft has secured exclusive 
 downloadable content for January of 2009 for both the PC and Xbox 360. Regardless of what platform 
 you play it on, Fallout 3 is exciting!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Copperhead89
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 13, 2008 5:19 pm PT
Review:  This game kept me busy for many hours, and it didn't seem to get boring at any moment. 
  The story is a bit short but most of the fun seems to come out of all the side missions that you 
 get by visiting small towns or just wondering into a trashed building which is packed with raiders 
 that just want to tear you apart.
  
  The new combat style called V. A. T. S. is a very good looking one, seeing limbs being ripped off 
 by bullets is pretty amazing but it can make the combat way too easy sometimes. 
  I guess that the combat is the only thing that may have gotten a bit boring for me, but i don't 
 have to use VATS so normal FPS style action can be played here .
  
  The Map is not huge, because of the land being plain & flat in many areas it doesn't feel like 
 your travels go very far, although Washington D. C. itself it a hell of a place. With many roads 
 blocked off you have to walk though the subways, so you get plenty of action above & under ground. 
 And i still havent discovered everything in D. C.
  
  The Karma System is a nice feature, im playing as a bad guy right now, so doing all the wrong thing 
 just seem so right like saving someone from a group of giant mutants only to make them a slave 
 & sell them. The best part is it doesn't have an effect on traders, so no matter how good or bad 
 you are they will still buy & sell to you. Some characters just might respond differently to you 
 with dialogue.
  
  Overall this game is definitely worth your money & you WILL have fun. Just remember the fact that 
 "YES" the game does end if you complete the story line but it doesn't mean you have to finish it 
 straight away. Im on my second run of the game & im trying to do everything else before I finish. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamecubedave000
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 13, 2008 1:01 pm PT
Review:  Theres been a lot of hype about this game and i can see why.
  
  The gameplay is amazing because everything works. But there are some glitches and just flat out 
 wierd stuff that happens, but its those things that happen to where you just laugh to yourself.
 
  
  The graphics are smooth and clear and the detail on everything is just something that wants to 
 make my cry for joy.
  
  The variety of weapons is not what i expected but its good enough to satisfy my needs. VATS is 
 a great way to do combat because it goes into a movie view and fires away without any assistance 
 from the player (but you do have to choose specific body parts) and blood and death. Blood and 
 lots of blood and eyeballs and explosions.
  
  The world is big but not enormous but you can explore as you please and take on a variety of enemys 
 like robots and mutated bugs ect.
  
  The different towns offer npcs that have all sorts of personality but same voice acting which you 
 can reconize throughout the land
  
  This game is a must buy and i 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Inferno636
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 13, 2008 10:38 am PT
Review:  While I'm not done playing the game this game has just blown me away. But, first I would like to 
 point out those bad reviews and complaint of lack of content, I don't think you people explored 
 NEARLY enough or you just don't like the feeling of finding new things. 
  Right from the start I knew this was going to be similar to Oblivion (but in no bad way) , of course 
 you make your character, but then I was suprised to see MUCH more story telling and cinema then 
 Oblivion had offered much at the beggining and I was immediately drawn to the story (even though 
 I didn't try to get any farther afterwards :P) . 
  Once I got outside the vault I got MUCH more than I expected. The postapocalyptic world is an AMAZING 
 setting and is so well realized in direction that I litterally believed all I saw as I transversed 
 the large world. Also, going back to Oblivion, ALL the locations in the game are completely unique 
 and have great stories to tell making just traveling and finding a nice electrical plant a great 
 discovery of what happened here. 
  Also as you travel throug the land it causes much more emotion to the player than Oblivion ever 
 did, where the land was perfect and peaceful. Here you constanly have questions to be asked and 
 just can't help but marvel at the depressing nature of the wasteland.
  Gameplay is very rewarding and fun if you like FPSs and RPGs this will definetely hit you sweet 
 spot letting have tons of fun shooting your enemies like most shooters but the real fun comes to 
 the VATS. This lets you in the press of a button freeze the games realtime play and spend regenerating 
 action points (AP) and spending them seeing how much your chance is of hitting your enemy and how 
 much damage could be done. This is a very simple system and it seems like it would get old but 
 it doesn't. Everytime I land a good shot in VATS its just so rewarding to see a great cinematic 
 of your enemy getting slaughtered. 
  Leveling up in the game isn't as much like most RPGs where you get stronger and stronger and enemies 
 soon become pieces of nothing for you and more become killable for you. In Fallout 3 every enemy 
 has a chance of killing you no matter how small. Even the first enemy Radroaches can (if catching 
 you at the right time) kill you. Yes, some are bigger threats than others and some you just don't 
 want to deal with but you can eventually kill later. Just you don't have the same feeling as in 
 most RPGs where you can just consider this enemy nothing. It's really a better feeling to me since 
 I dont' like how in Oblivion I kept finding boring enemies and then out of no where finding ridiculous 
 enemies that you just can't kill yet. Fallout 3 really levels it well. 
  The graphics in the game (as observed on the 360 for me) are really good. Lighting works really 
 well in all cases. The game can really handle lots of enemies and action at the same time. And 
 there was only one noticable visual bug while the game was loading the wasteland as I walked but 
 that didn't happen again. 
  The music isn't too noticed since it usually is quiet as you travel but eventually I really started 
 to notice the ambient instruments in the Wasteland and really add an effect of depression and sadness 
 about the Wasteland. The battle music is pretty good too giving a very rushed feel when out of 
 no where you get mauled by a vicious dog or a mole rat. Some music too you hear occasionally really 
 hits the spot for the moment too, and this happens plenty of times throughout the game. The music 
 is definetely above average. 
  I can't say much of the main story since the time I got to play was exploring the Wasteland and 
 not much of even doing the simple task of going to somewhere and talking to someone. But the stories 
 of areas you come to are very interesting and will keep you exploring to find more great locations. 
 Maybe you'll find a school being used as a mining spot. Or a highly radiated waste dump full of 
 ugly wastelanders. You never know what you'll find in this game while exploring and you never know 
 what can happen while you go. One time I was just getting some ammo from an old trailer and then 
 out of no where I started getting hit by missles and I finally realized outside the trailer unfortunatly 
 a group of Raiders and Super Mutants had met up and started slaughtering each other and I was in 
 the middle of it! Ah it was great. I killed them. 
  It's true that there isn't as much content as Oblivion but the complexity of the quests and locations 
 is really astonishing and it's tons of fun to explore somewhere you've NEVER been before and hopefully 
 never will be unlike Oblivion where it's a nice pretty midevil land. 
  This game is truly amazing and is definetely a great by for any hardcore gamer out for more exploring 
 in a amazing land of the ironically destroyed DC. I had tons of fun with this game and if you love 
 RPGs and FPSs you'll definetely love this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Grunge14
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 13, 2008 9:53 am PT
Review:  This game is amazingly fun, highly addictive, and has MANY features.
  
  Pros: Great Look to it; Personalizing yourself and making your own decisions is a plus; Amazing 
 combat and great ways to attack; Good story; Intense; Good weapons to choose from; Pip-Boy is a 
 great addition
  
  Cons: Can get annoying walking through long distance wastelands; frustrating Allies sometimes.
 
  
  Graphics- 9/10
  Game play- 9.5/10
  Characters- 8/10
  Combat- 8.5/10
  Role Playing- 9/10
  Sequel- 9/10
  Story- 8.5/10
  
  I got frustrated with long walking and 
 harshly strong enemies, but the game play, role playing, and graphics definitely make up for it.
 
  
  HIGHLY recommend this  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: krovak0000
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 13, 2008 7:31 am PT
Review:  Well when I first got Fallout 3 I was incredibly excited seeing as I loved the old ones, but then 
 I started playing... It quickly became a bore, I did sit through it just to beat and explore it.
 
  
  Basically I thought it was quite easy with the V. A. T. S. system, you just kite something around 
 til points rebuild, hit all headshots taking no actual aiming skill and then kill things... cool 
 idea at first but to simple for me. 
  
  Secondly I did not like the broken quests, 1 to give unlimited xp? Another for money...? Come on.. 
 make it a challenge not a glitch fest. The storyline overall STARTED out ok, but by the end I was 
 rather dissappointed. 
  
  As far as the graphics ya very cool looking but not enough variety for me.
  
  The weapons of 
 course are like old fallouts which I liked, the point system was pretty cool as well as perks! 
 I shall give this game an 8 because it's DEFINATELY worth checking out, but all in all I would 
 never buy especially seeing as the main quest line is quick to beat, side quests get annoying until 
 you get all fast travel and it just wasn't really a challenge. Karma system almost helps make up 
 but just not enough from fallout for me! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Adam314-
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 12, 2008 3:57 pm PT
Review:  Well this game is great. I mean a nuke launcher. a damn nuke launcher. The only thing bad about 
 this game is that it ends. I was really sad when i first heard that it ended. But then i saw the 
 end and i was like damn. I've never seen so many explosions. EVER! The only things to this game 
 is that there is no way to make quick money. I've tried everything there is. Also no fast way of 
 travel when a place hasn't been discovered. Well other than that the gameplay is good and who ever 
 **** about v. a. t. s is a **** moron. I mean for anyone who played the old fallouts you know how 
 big of a ***** attack points can be. But other than that i could find nothing wrong with the game. 
 So on that note I would recommend it to any if not all of my friends. So altogether i would buy 
 this game even if your not into killing and stuff like that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 11cairborne
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 12, 2008 3:50 am PT
Review:  Graphics- The graphics are very good, the people look close to realistic, the ghouls look awesomely 
 disgusting, and when i blew up megaton i could feel myself screaming YES YES!!!!! in my head of 
 the beauty. It was amazing even though i kind of regret it now.
  
  Gameplay- The gameplay is one of the best first/third person shooter i have ever played. The V. A. T. S. 
 system helped me so much i would've died and not have as much fun if it was there. The story is 
 so good except the tragedy at Jefferson Memorial. I haven't beaten the game yet because I'm usually 
 doing side quests. Right now I'm trying to get into Vault 87 but the stupid spoiled kids don't 
 let me in so anyway if anyone could help me with that just message me. So overall this game is 
 so good that if it was a person i would have a family with it. This is a very addicting game. So 
 i would definitely recomend getting it. I didn't like Oblivion but this game i cant describe in 
 words. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Colonel_Worr
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 11, 2008 6:56 pm PT
Review:  I'll start off by stating that the only person in my house who didn't like this game was my one 
 roommate who hates everything movie or game related so his input is worthless. I loved almost every 
 aspect of this game. The only negatives I have found is that when you get into cities it is ridiculous 
 trying to find your way anywhere. That and I caught on to the game so quickly that everyone thought 
 it was just ridiculously easy and kept scoffing at "the amazing invincible man" I was playing. 
 A quick trade-off to someone else quickly drove that thought from everyone's minds. For how dumb 
 this sounds, one of the sweetest parts of the game for me was that you could get a bloody attack 
 dog that also retrieves items for you, and you don't even have to stop every three seconds to guide 
 him around the only stump in a 10 acre field! I just thought that was mind boggling. I have to 
 admit, I didn't really like the ending, I won't spoil it for everyone but I thought it wasn't all 
 that great. Overall I would say this game is quite awesome. I am glad I rented it and kept it for 
 like four weeks over the due date. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thedjholla
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 11, 2008 3:33 pm PT
Review:  The game was great - would recommend to anyone with an interest in FPS or RPGs. The game is replayable 
 too, as there are many ways to complete quests that might change the course of the game. In addition 
 there are so many side quests you could ignore all the ones you did the first time round and still 
 have plenty come back to second time!
  
  It offers a great balance of action and story development, without there being too much of either 
 to make you bored. There is also a reasonable number of weapons that you can use throughout the 
 wastes, although if you choose a particular weapon specialisation, you may find you only ever use 
 one or two; I know I did.
  
  I cant remember what difficulty I played the game on, but I found it increasingly easier, particularly 
 once I got a follower. If you find it too easy, Id put the difficulty up - you are rewarded with 
 additional XP, so it might be worth it!
  
  Finally, (without including spoilers) I chose an end game option that meant I couldnt play on... 
 Im not sure whether other options would allow you to - but if you want to explore the game on completion, 
 be wary of which option you choose.
  
  Enjoy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pliskin_wolf
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 11, 2008 2:51 pm PT
Review:  there are enough reviews to get an idea of what you are looking for. this game is executed very 
 well, and has a very thought out story line. the game will leave you wanting more at the end. this 
 game means exploration, and if you dont you miss out on half the game. no joke!!! Filler textFiller 
 textFiller textFiller textFiller textFiller textFiller textFiller textFiller textFiller textFiller 
 textFiller textFiller textFiller textFiller textFiller textFiller textFiller textFiller textFiller 
 textFiller textFiller textFiller textFiller textFiller textFiller textFiller textFiller textFiller 
 textFiller textFiller textFiller textFiller textFiller textFiller textFiller textFiller textFiller 
 textFiller textFiller textFiller textFiller textFiller textFiller textFiller textFiller textFiller 
 textFiller textFiller textFiller textFiller textFiller textFiller textFiller textFiller textFiller 
 textFiller textFiller textFiller textFiller textFiller textFiller textFiller textFiller textFiller 
 textFiller textFiller textFiller text 
::::::

::::::
UserName: evratto
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 11, 2008 9:05 am PT
Review:  First time in years that a game succeed in capturing me, the feeling and desesperation for survival 
 is latent and is felt in every part of the game and that is why I consider this the best game of 
 the year and definitely mark a milestone in the history of RPGs. The only time I had chance to 
 play I did it for 12 hrs straight and I was really immersed in the plot of this apocalyptic and 
 dangerous world, it really takes you out from the real world. 
  
  The game absorbs you from the start, since you born and grow inside the vault until something goes 
 wrong and you are forced to leave the vault to the outside and surprise!! the first look leaves 
 you open-yaw for several minutes. .. The delight of this incredible apocalyptic landscape worthy 
 of the best prizes of art for video games. If you add to this the excellent plot and the facility 
 to play freely in any direction or any mission gives you that feeling of virtual reality that for 
 many years I never felt in several10 out of 10 games" or "games of the year" I hope this game 
 will inspire the producers to deliver what is needed in a good game, get involved. 
  
  
  The game uses practically the same engine from Oblivion with similar inabilities to recreate dialogues 
 with convincing animations, this makes some room for improvements in the sequel, but has two significantly 
 good improvements: the pipboy menu that is really a serious and well designed menu system and the 
 vats shooting system that gives you a great relief for predatory fighting against you. 
  
  The important thing in this game is to actually play a game and not to pretend to play a game. 
 Now is when I realize that the idea of a game or the purpose of a console must be to involve you 
 in it. Get some fun you know.
  
  For me, with all the faults of the Oblivion engine, this game deserves a 10 out of 10.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: danflyhight
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 11, 2008 8:35 am PT
Review:  When asked about what games Betheseda Studios wanted to do, Fallout 3 Game Director, Todd Howard, 
 said, "We wanted to have more than one thing in our pocket. That we just didn't want to do an Elder 
 Scrolls and then an Elder Scrolls and an Elder Scrolls. We knew we wanted to be in a similar vein. 
 We wanted an open world. We want role playing elements and so we made a list of things we wanted 
 to do and at the top of the list was Fallout." 
  Did Bethesda accomplish what they wanted: Putting their spin on what has become a classic franchise? 
 In my humble opinion: They did. Going into this game Bethesda knew they had to stay true to the 
 Fallout story, but using their own spin and game play. Using their research of the old fallout 
 games and using similar formulas from their Elder Scrolls games and spinning them together works 
 almost flawlessly.
  Starting the game you are born. A crying baby in the doctor's arms. Shortly after you become 1 
 year old. Choosing your S. P. E. C. I. A. L. stats from a small book. I'll explain S. P. E. C. I. A. L. stats 
 briefly. It's basically your attributes. Strength, Perception, Endurance, Charisma, Intelligence, 
 Agility, and Luck. Each influencing the smaller skills that will aid you in your adventure. Time 
 warps again to you being 10 years old. Getting your special aid device that will help you with 
 your game and becomes your menu system. Then it warps again to your 16th year of being alive, where 
 you take a test called the G. O. A. T. in which your answers will influence your starting skills. 
 Afterwards, it warps to you being 19 and your father leaving your home. You soon chase after him, 
 thrusting you into a world of desolation and the influencing of the human spirit.
  As you play through this game, if you played the Elder Scrolls games, you will realize how much 
 like the Elder Scrolls game this is. This is a Bethesda game first and a Fallout game second. Movement 
 is the same; the compass and map are basically the same, the menu system, though more thought out 
 and organized this time, are basically the same as well. However, knowing all this does not diminish 
 the greatness that is a Bethesda game. Thrusting you into a post apocalyptic scene, you now get 
 guns instead of swords, magic, and bows and arrows. This is one of the only complaints I can find 
 in this game, even maxing out the skill for the type of gun you have, and your aiming is still 
 questionable. This leads into one of the great things of the game. V. A. T. S., which stands for: 
 Vault-Tec Assisted Targeting System. When engaging this in game it freezes the battle, zooms in 
 on your opponent and lets you look at each limb and the weapon of the opponent and gives you a 
 percentage chance of you hitting that part of the enemy. This gives the game a statistical RPG 
 element to gunplay. Now you may ask "Why should I go for any other part of the body other than 
 the head?" Well by taking a few shots at say, an arm for example sake, enough hits will cripple 
 that arm, making your opponent unable to aim or shoot steadily because of it. Shooting and crippling 
 a leg will keep them from catching up to shoot you, should you need to run away. Shooting at the 
 weapon brings down the condition of the weapon and eventually breaking it, keeping your enemy from 
 attacking you with it.
  Equipment with this game is basically the same as the Elder Scrolls; there are a lot of clothes 
 and armor to find, and weapons as well. As with the Elder Scrolls games each item you can equip 
 has a condition bar which shows how close to being broken and useless it is. The fuller the bar, 
 the longer it will last and the greater benefit it has or more damage it does.
  Another great thing in this game are the P. E. R. K. s. Once you hit level 2, you are able to pick 
 one perk per level up. And every 2 levels you unlock more P. E. R. K. s to choose from. Each P. E. R. K. 
 iswell for lack of a better term a perk to help you play through the game and each benefit from 
 choosing one can vary from getting points added to stats, to getting special dialogue with certain 
 people, extra damage, or even gaining another level right away. Although choosing a P. E. R. K. at 
 a low level may seem well, it can bite you in the butt later in the game. You should look at the 
 further P. E. R. K. s down the list to make a plan, especially since some P. E. R. K. s need your basic 
 S. P. E. C. I. A. L stats to be higher than the defaulted 5 at the beginning of the game.
  Okay, here's my one complaint. The aiming in this game is terrible. As I mentioned before you can 
 have the small guns skill maxed out and your pistol shots are still going to veer off to the side 
 a bit. You won't be 100% accurate with every shot. Not to mention that I found myself backing up 
 and shooting enemies coming at me and holding the aiming button only slowed my steps and I did 
 just as well not holding it and keeping my speed of running up.
  All right so here we go:
  Game Play: Except for the aiming of the game, this game is a Bethesda game through and through 
 and that is certainly nothing to complain about. 
  
  Sound: Voice acting in this game is exceptional, by using celebrities like Liam Neeson for your 
 father, to the random person walking the wasteland, its great. The musical soundtrack is reminiscent 
 of Elder Scrolls, however turn on Galaxy News Radio and old 50's swing will come back to your heart.
 
  
  Controls: I have no problem with the menu system and with moving around and shooting through the 
 wasteland.
  
  Graphics: It's a beautiful game. The only improvement could be with making the movements of the 
 characters you're talking to less static as you talk with them. Outside of conversation the world, 
 although dreary and irradiated, looks amazing.
  
  Overall: I give this game a 9.5. With little to complain about this game is by far in the running 
 somewhere for RPG of the year.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Timeaisis
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 10, 2008 11:37 am PT
Review:  Fallout - probably the most anticipated game of this Fall, save Gears of War 2. While many reviews 
 have come out recently adoring it, I'm here to give a third-party, hype-free, I've-never-played-oblivion 
 opinion.
  
  For what it's worth, Fallout 3 is immense. Its also a little scary. At first. Now, in the Bethesda 
 massive rpg universe, 'at first' means the first ten hours. So be sure to want something to do 
 for a while, because Fallout will be a loooooooong game.
  
  I'm gonna be honest with you all: at first, I didn't really care for Fallout 3. I mean, yeah, it 
 was fun, I liked it alright, but it was by no means 9/10 material. It was above average for me. 
 This is because the combat felt a little clunky, the world was just too massive for me to know 
 what to do with, and it seemed like it was way too open-ended for its own good. I didn't know how 
 to fight, what to do next, where to go, who to talk to. With a game like this, it doesn't like 
 to 'lead' you anywhere, you just kinda gotta do something yourself. There's no 'right' thing to 
 do, you just do. And maybe find a quest and complete it. Because of this, Fallout 3 was hard for 
 me to get into. I didn't have clear objectives, I didn't know where I should be venturing to and 
 where to avoid (I'm an old-school rpg player, and back in the day there were some places you just 
 aren't supposed to go to yet) . That and the fact that EVERY action you take has an effect on your 
 enviroment. Be sure not to 'accidently' steal anything from someone's house while their looking, 
 because they will hurt you. And if you hurt them, the whole town will kill you. And if that's your 
 only save file, you're screwed. This happened to me once, but I learned my lesson.
  
  That being said, the problem I have with the game is that it gives you limitless freedom all the 
 time. There are no rules. But something bad will happen if you do some things sometimes. Because 
 of that, you're unsure of what you are 'supposed' to be doing.
  
  But, once you get over the fact that Fallout works like the real world - shot at someone, and he'll 
 shoot back, steal and you will be run out of town - and play accordingly, you'll be alright. The 
 fact that its easy to screw your game up so frickin' much with one wrong move is scary - at first. 
 Ok, its scary all the time, but its the price that this game had to pay for being so frickin' immense.
 
  
  That single gripe aside, Fallout 3 is an amazing game. Not really amazing in the sense that it 
 has super-high production values, great storyline, great graphics, characters, gameplay mechanics, 
 etc. Noit doesn't really do anything new with any of that stuff. But its great because its so 
 frickin' huge. You can do whatever you want and really build your character any way you see fit. 
 The brilliance of Fallout 3 is that it gives you so much freedom. Sometimes you don't know what 
 to do with it, but once you see the ruins of D. C. for the first time, you'll realize how great 
 an idea for a game this was. Because, frankly, its damn fun to play.
  
  The combat isn't perfect, but its enjoyable. At first, it will seem clunky. You won't know what 
 to do. You'll have a 10mm pistol and a hunting rifle and be going up against three super mutants 
 with assault rifles. It'll seem like you're screwed. At first, you will be screwedyou're arsenal 
 isn't too realized until a while into the game. But once you get your first Chinese Assault Rifle 
 and shotgun, you'll realize that combat isn't so bad. The beginning of the game really shows of 
 how clunky the system can be. It's FPS sometimes, which isn't too amazingly responsive, and RPG-inspired, 
 pause time and choose your attack carefully - called VATS. At first, the game will seem like you'll 
 need VATS and you will be fighting in it extensively. FPSing will be the death of you. It'll seem 
 like you just go in cover, wait for your AP to recharge, then pop out, go into VATS and take alot 
 of headshots. This will be true when you have a pistol and a rifle. But sooner or later, you're 
 arsenal will grow, and you'll find that combat is exciting and rewarding. You'll amass a huge amount 
 of weapons, you'll get a dog, and most of all you'll be able to blow a super mutants head off with 
 a carefully placed assault rifle barrage to the head. It's a lovely sight, watching a big mutant 
 go all rag-doll physics on you after you blow their face off. That, above all, is the most rewarding 
 aspect of this game.
  
  As you gain more skills, weapons, and equiment, combat becomes more fun and entertaining. The enemy 
 AI is still terribly pitiful, but it would be too much of a difficulty trying to deal with a smart 
 enemy in a game that is an RPG first and and FPS second. Given this fact, everything else just 
 falls together. Once you accept the fact that you are playing an RPG in which your primary objective 
 is to explore the world around you, you'll love it. I frequently found myself taking a detour from 
 my quest path to explore old, abandoned buildings and mysterious settlements. Most of the time 
 these just have more enemies and equipment, but sometimes, you'll find even more quests to take 
 on.
  
  Fallout 3 is not a game for everyone, though. Those with short attention spans or people who like 
 gaming for a sparse half an hour a day: this game is not for you. This is more geared toward the 
 old-school, hardcore gamer who loves getting each and everything out of their game. If that is 
 your mindset, Fallout 3 is just loaded with content that'll make you keep coming back for more. 
 It never really gets old, and at time is seems too immense. Just remember: its a game, you can 
 always come back to it.
  
  The only downsides to Fallout 3 come in its design, an inherent flaw that could not be polished 
 over no matter how hard one tries: the world is enormous. This is both the greatest draw to the 
 game and the hardest pill to swallow. As a gamer, you grew up being told what to do and where to 
 go, but with Fallout 3, all bets are off. The limitless freedom it gives you is both exciting and 
 scary. You're character's life is completely in your hands. You don't want to piss anyone off or 
 say the wrong thing. One wrong move and you could be shot at by everyone in town. This feature 
 is both amazing and frightening. When all is said and done, though, you have to play Fallout 3 
 with multiple save files, with your head on straight, and with no objectives in mind. Just play 
 for the sake of playing and you'll get the most out of it.
  
  The RPG elements of Fallout 3 are brilliant. Your handy PIP-BOY 3000 serves as your menu screen 
 at your home base. It displays a multitude of information: the world map, your local map, all items 
 your carrying, equipment, your character's status, Skills, Perks, quests, Notes, and Radio. Everything 
 you would ever need to know about your character is in there. You'll spend a lot of time there 
 too, its the central hub of the game - displaying all vital information. The RPG system, however, 
 is just as advanced as the PIP-BOY's features claim. You gain XP from fighting, questing, exploring, 
 lockpicking, hacking, and the like. Anything that uses your skills grants XP. Gain enough, and 
 you'll level up. This isn't just generic "increase some stats and be done" level-up, either. Fallout 
 3 gives the player the option to invest Skill Points in a multitude of categories to improve their 
 skills. Not just combat skills, either. Anything from medicine to repair, explosives to science, 
 sneaking to speech. Its all there. Other than that, you get to choose one perk per level. There 
 are a whole slew of them, some yet discovered. They all do a variety of things, and there is no 
 way to get them all on one play through. The perks really make this game shine, and give the player 
 the power to really mold their character. Are you a rambo, combat-heavy player, or a smart, deliberate 
 player? The perks can shape your character into what kind of wastelander you want to be. And not 
 all are leveling onlysome are gained only on special quests that you do throughout the game. So, 
 it seems like Bethesda hit the RPG elements right - its got enough action to keep you interested, 
 and enough customization to keep you playing for a long, long time. The FPS non-VATS combat system 
 is a bit clunky at times, but this is a minor grievance when viewing this game on a wholethat 
 is, as an RPG.
  
  Besides the somewhat clunky FPS combat system (aside from VATS, of course, which is probably the 
 best mechanic in the game) and the frighteningly huge world were there are infinitely many ways 
 to screw yourself (read: your character) , Fallout 3 is an amazing game that should not be missed. 
 Anyone who has ever played a Role playing game needs to play Fallout 3. It may be "Oblivion with 
 guns", but is sure as hell fun.
  
  PROS:
  +Limitless Freedom
  +Enormous World
  +VATS
  +SPECIAL/Character Building
  
  CONS:
  -Limitless Freedom
  -Clunky FPS combat
 
  -Somewhat empty characters
  
  Final Thought:
  Fallout 3 is a game that should not be missed by anyone who mildly cares where RPGs are going. 
 It doesn't innovate over and over, but it puts everything fun about open-ended RPGs together in 
 one great package, leaving out the weak parts. Fallout 3 might not have the best, most interesting 
 storyline, or the most deep, intriguing characters, but it lets the player experience post-apocalyptic 
 D. C. the way he or she wants, and that's what makes it stands out.
  
  Overall: 9.0/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: super_tails
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 10, 2008 3:54 am PT
Review:  Your nineteen years old. Your father has gone missing. You have journeyed away from the safe walls 
 of Vault 101 in order to find him, traipsing into 'The Wastes', a place populated by radioactive 
 mutants, killing insects the size of a grown man, and two warring factions, one bent on killing 
 us all, and the other to cultivate an existence. 
  Fallout 3 paints a very bleak and dire picture of what a nuclear fallout would be like in Washington 
 D. C circa 2277. 
  
  My eyes first became drawn onto this series when the prosect of 'free roaming' a radioactive wasteland 
 sounded interesting. I later learned that the reigns of this long-standing franchise had been given 
 to Bethesda, responsible for the Elder Scrolls series of RPG's. My mouth watered, the prospect 
 of this game's setting with the style and framework of Oblivion sounding good. Going into this 
 game, I had very high expectations, built up in my head based on what I understood from the previews, 
 and what I knew of Oblivion. I was disappointed at first, not finding what I had originally expected. 
 As I went, trying to get my moneys worth, I fell in love with a game that is truly deep.
  
  Fallout 3 begins with the birth of your character. From there, the game guides you through a series 
 of tutorial styled scenes picked from your early childhood to young teen, establishing your characters 
 traits, skills, and appearance. If you played any Fallout or Elder Scrolls game, you'd know how 
 the character creation would be set up. Once you wade through all of this, which takes up to roughly 
 40 minutes, the game sets you loose into The Capital Wasteland, where you're free to explore at 
 will.
  
  There are a number of main quests, that you never have to really do at all, as well as the numerous 
 side quests. It is known that the main quest is actually rather short, being done in a matter of 
 hours if done so quickly and with no exploration, but this game is meant for you to explore everything.
 
  With exploration being the key feature of this game, it's sad to see that hardly enough worth 
 exploring exists in the game world. There is the main city of ruined D. C, and various subway tunnels 
 to explore, the odd make-shift town out in the wastes you can usually get a quest or two, and then 
 the dozens of tunnels and caves and building structures you explore, and more times than none, 
 offering nothing in return. 
  
  Littered in the main map of the game, are enemies of various degrees. For my tastes, some of them 
 are a little over powering, making traversing new areas dangerous, as you fear death at every step. 
 The fast travel feature is seen again here, but as in Oblivion, cuts down the exploration the game 
 attempt you perform.
  Nevertheless, as you progress in level, certain skills, or perks, become available, either through 
 leveling up or simply meeting some sort of requirement. These can make your game easier; given 
 you pick the right perk to accommodate the type of character your building. In the case of leveling 
 up, it's worth mentioning that enemies don't level up with you, much like in Oblivion. Obviously 
 there is some slight increase, but not as dramatically as before.
  
  Fallout 3's combat is similar in design as Oblivion's, but with guns. You simply run around, and 
 shoot. Of course, in this game doing so in such 'Halo-like' fashion would result in dying, a lot. 
 A more strategic approach pays of, especially in the way of V. A. T. S. Essentially, bullet time but 
 being able to pin point your fire to certain body parts. This is awesome, and makes encountering 
 foes fun. Pick up the bloody mess perk, and you witness your enemies splatter blood in slow motion 
 across your screen, hinting at the obvious mature nature of the game. Also on this note, there 
 are points in this game where questionable actions come into play. So not to ruin anything, I found 
 myself second guessing my actions, bringing into question my own morality within the 'realistic' 
 world of my day to day life.
  
  This has to be said, that fact that Fallout 3 has been accused of simply being Oblivion with guns, 
 and/or simply being Oblivion but with a new gritty sheet pull over the top. If you've played both 
 these games before, you can draw the similarity between them. Does this make Fallout 3 less of 
 a game? No, because it expands on an already existing engine/formula. The fact that less can actually 
 be found in the game is both a pro and a con, though I feel that's my own personal opinion.
  
  Fallout 3 is good. It's so good in fact, it might make game of the year. It's certainly one 
 of the most enriching gaming experiences I've had this year. There are some problems, yes, but 
 these are overlooked from the sheer draw of the world. The exploration is a bit effected, but doesn't 
 stop you in the long run. For anyone who enjoyed Oblivion, or any of the other Fallout games, or 
 for anyone simply looking to loose a large amount of hours to a game, Fallout 3 is certainly worth 
 every cent of your money 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: luke89330
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 26, 2009 1:47 pm PT
Review:  I know this game is great... in some ways, actually in a lot of ways... like the graphics, voice 
 actings, sound effects, etc. But when it really comes down into whether this game is fun or not? 
 I dont know how to answer. I felt bored, literally bored by playing Fallout 3. Seriously, I really 
 did force myself to play it, just to see if it would impress me in the end, then i can write a 
 review. But there were more and more disappointments as my game went on, so i have decided to finish 
 it quickly and trade it in. Now, I finally finished it. It did not surprise me in the end, and 
 it did not change my viewpoint of the game.
  
  Though the baby part is unique and fun, the starting of Fallout 3 is not too great, only decent. 
 After your escape to the wasteland, you will find yourself to be completely free. Is that a good 
 thing? Maybe at first. Because besides finding your dad, exploring is the most important thing 
 to do. But after awhile of exploring, I asked myself, why did I spent hours to go to these random 
 unknown places, for no reward at all? Seriously, I almost got myself killed, and all i got is some 
 caps and ammo? Nothing special, i was disappointed. 
  
  So i began to do quests, only. I accepted and played through many side quests before main quests. 
 This is because I played and loved Oblivion before, because its side quests are literally amazing. 
 Its storyline is very engrossing and fun. This is when i liked Bethesda, and why i anticipate Fallout 
 3 so much. However, Fallout 3's side quests did not deliver the enjoyment as Oblivion did. Its 
 all in a not-so-surprising way, help him do this, help her do that. So literally, its a no-surprise-at-all 
 way. And while you are helping, you will be the one man team who enters the huge dungeon with a 
 bunch of red bars on your compass. Oh, and if you want to do quests, be prepared to travel for 
 so long on repetitive landscapes, and sorry no vehicles for you. I know right, at least Oblivion 
 gives you a horse. So most side quests in Fallout 3 sucks, compared to Oblivion tho. 
  
  Now the main quests are actually alright... just a little bit better than the side quests, like 
 Tranquility Lane is pretty good. But still, all quests doesnt left me with any feelings. When someone 
 close died, am i suppose to be sad? When I did something beneficial, am i suppose to be glad? "Uhhh 
 Ok? Now what." I didnt feel a single thing through the entire storyline. Sure the game is addicting, 
 but when I look back after I finished everything, there is nothing that still stays inside of me. 
 Therefore my thoughts for playing this game is... i wonder why im playing this game. This game 
 gives me an uncomfortable loneliness because there is almost no one outside of the wasteland, except 
 cities. But cities are only for trading, repairing, accepting and returning quests. You will spend 
 most of the time wandering in the wasteland that is based on similar rocks, similar rivers, similar 
 ruins. Tedious. Tedious. Tedious. I know they made a big map. I know they have huge load of stuff. 
 I know they are trying to extend the game length. But they made the game too much that i feel like, 
 oh god, when i will be able to finish all these crap!? Even though you can finish them, you will 
 still be left alone with nothing but emptiness, no rewarding achievements. I wish i can be like, 
 SCREW THIS, im done with this game. But nope, for the sake of 60 dollars, i have to continue...
 
  
  How about combat, any fun? Will you think its fun if a game is FPS but not. Dont understand? Fallout 
 3 literally is an FPS game. Because, come on, you shoot guns at the crosshair, common sense. But 
 its actually not FPS, only RPG. Because its shooting just sucks so bad. It doesnt give you any 
 feel of shooting a gun like CoD or GoW. And thats why VATS comes into the play. You will find VATS 
 very useful because you wont be able to shoot well normally, its hard, its frustrating, and it 
 wont make sense. While using VATS, it zooms in on the target, but it also pauses the gameplay, 
 which ruins the intensity and the fast pace of gunfights. So there you go, combat = no fun. RPG 
 is the only content, like Oblivion and the original Fallout, there are many perks and S. P. E. C. I. A. L. 
 to choose from to create your own favorite class.
  
  I have finished the main quests, most of the side quests. But i didnt finish everything, its impossible 
 to me and im not willing to do that. So all these thoughts are my own feelings, there are still 
 things in Fallout 3 i havent experience.
  
  I do recommend this game, not necessarily buying it, but at least try it out. Fallout 3 still could 
 be a great game, I trust GameSpot on that 9.0. I guess its my own personality that doesnt fit in 
 quite well. And most importantly, its not better than Elder Scrolls IV in any point. But seriously, 
 im glad i was done, and i dont regret trading it in. I used to rate this game an 8.0, because of 
 its rich contents. But then I realized, contents doesnt mean everything. Based on its enjoyability, 
 based on how I feel after playing this game. I think I should rate it a 7.5.
  
  Goods:
  Feeling bloodthirsty? Bloody Mess will fulfill your need
  Superb voice acting
  Great RPG content
 
  Neat graphics
  It is SURE ADDICTING, while you havent finished everything yet...
  I want to say that I like the game menu A LOT
  A sequel on another company's game thats 11 years 
 old? Good enough.
  You can have friends, like Dogmeat, to explore the wasteland with you
  VATS
  Large map, many locations
  So much stuff to do
  Long game length
  
  Bads:
  Combat 
 is awkward and doesnt give you the feel
  Clumsy and repetitive animations
  Facial expression doesnt match up to the voice
  Loading time could take long
  Soundtrack is 
 only ok...
  Occasionally bugs, crashes, visual quirks
  On your PipBoy the location is near, but sometimes you must take the long way, because there could 
 be barricades of rocks or ruined walls that just wont let you through. Frustration.
  Storyline, quests that have no surprises, no holy craps
  Repetitive dungeons, repetitive landscapes, 
 repetitive environments
  VATS
  Large map, many locations
  So much stuff to do
  Long game length 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wkduffy
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 9, 2008 8:45 pm PT
Review:  OK. No one is going to read this, because thousands of people have already reviewed this "exceptional" 
 game and declared it "The Beginning of a New Era in Gaming History." 
  
  Fine. I liked it. But I just LIKED it. To provide some context, I only played for about 25 hours. 
 I did about 5 side quests: Got my house, my dog, my robot, my power armor, picked up a handful 
 of Bobbleheads, and then I went into the main quest and finished it. Done. Time to move onto something 
 else. 
  
  Maybe I don't know how to play these kinds of games; it is entirely possible I'm losing out on 
 the entire "experience." Maybe I should be playing this one game for the rest of my life. I'm sure 
 some people will be doing just that. But I just don't have that kind of attention span. I want 
 to see what's next on the market. Maybe that's my shortcoming. But I imagine there are plenty of 
 others who feel the same way. Fallout 3 is now on my shelf, along with my other "completed" games, 
 and it has become a relatively fond memory. No need to revisit it. (Mass Effect? Same thing, BTW.)
 
  
  OK, so given my proclivities (and my leanings towards jumping around in a frantic shootout instead 
 of sorting through dozens of RPG menus) , let me ask a few "jabbing" questions here about Fallout 
 3 to those fanboys and fangirls:
  
  1. Why, oh why, did I spend 30 minutes crafting my face and my hairdo in the beginning of the game 
 if I never, ever, ever really actually get to see my face during gameplay? Huh? Why? Huh? Can you 
 tell me? Even in the final cutscene, you are walking away into the devastated landscape, WITH YOUR 
 BACK TO THE SCREEN. Really, now.
  
  2. Why did I bother naming myself if my name is never used by any of the NPC characters, and really 
 never appears in the game in any significant way, other than on a few documents here and there? 
 (My name, btw, was: "Am I Ever Actually Going to Finish This Game?" I know, a long name, but it 
 fit me perfectly.)
  
  3. Why does that robot have to be so darned chatty? And every single time you access his storage 
 unit YOU GET THE SAME REPEATED LINE OVER AND OVER AND OVER. Sheesh, I was repeating it my sleep! 
 Was I secretly being brainwashed? Was that part of the Vault 101 experiment too? (That was a joke.)
 
  
  4. I'm finishing up GOW 2 now. And you know what? Wow, it makes Fallout 3's graphics look like 
 inanimate junk. What do the guys and gals at Bethesda think when they see a graphical smash of 
 a game like GOW 2 hit the shelves. Do they wince? Do they think "Uh, can we get all those copies 
 back from ya'll so we can tweak the graphics a bit more?" I wonder....
  
  OK, I'm done poking at Fallout 3 with my pointed stick now. Good, fun game. But nothing more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KrAzY_Croat
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 9, 2008 2:01 pm PT
Review:  Bethesda is notorious for its role-playing-games. Open world, freedom of expression and character, 
 and moral choices that impact the very world players reside in. From the previous exceptional Elder 
 Scrolls games, Morrowind and Oblivion, Bethesda moves onto a different, more controversial universe.
 
  
  Previously under Interplay and Black Isle Studios, the last Fallout game to be released was in 
 the fourth quarter of 1998. Previously a top-down view reminiscent to that of Diablo, Fallout 3's 
 rights were purchased by Bethesda, where the games original mechanics were tossed aside in favor 
 of Oblivion's system. 
  
  Being a role-playing-game, player choice is essential. Few of the genre however, offer such intricate 
 and meaningful ways to approach any given situation. Fulfilling the spiritual hopes of a tree-loving 
 religious society, assassinating or siding with alienated ghouls, or even deciding the fate of 
 an entire town are just a few of the many outstanding moral decisions that take place in post-apocalyptic 
 Washington DC in Fallout 3. Actions not only affect the world and its inhabitants, but the way 
 characters are played.
  
  Bethesda's intricate and vivid focus on storytelling is obvious in the first moments of the game. 
 The character creation and plot unfold in a well interwoven introduction to your skills and father, 
 whom is easy to develop a moral attachment to. It's the year 2277, the player and his father are 
 residents of Vault 101. This is just one of the many constructs that were built to shelter earth's 
 population from the dangers of nuclear war.
  
  Within the Vault, people live just like people, albeit governed by what can be compared to a dictatorship. 
 When the father flees the vault without a goodbye, an adventure to find him begins, only to find 
 yourself in the middle of a scientific and political war that when tampered with could change the 
 course of the future. 
  
  Fallout 3 populace is numerous and brilliant; nuclear affected ghouls are misshapen human beings 
 twisted by the radiation, refugees that are reluctant to new faces, and any number of radiated 
 and over sized animals. All characters are voiced perfectly, with some returning voices from Oblivion, 
 and new voices like the character's father, by Liam Neeson. 
  
  Possibly the most affecting, and important part of Fallout 3 is the first time you leave the vault. 
 Being the first time actual sunlight has hit the players eyes, as the eyes darken, the environment 
 shows an endless array of grey and brown, in a truly devastated society. The United States goes 
 to war with China, and the heavy affect of the nuclear arms opens your eyes to the horror that 
 is war.
  
  The United States is a broken country in Fallout 3. Although no real giant societies exist, there 
 are cities and towns scattered throughout the DC wasteland. These are some of the greatest features 
 of Fallout 3. Inside are people that require your attention, people that will shoot you if you 
 shoot your mouth off, and people to help you. A few other groups live within the wasteland; notably 
 the Brotherhood of Steel, a righteous group of freedom fighters that attempt to quell the last 
 remnants of the totalitarian government, called the Enclave. This is where the main story centers, 
 as well as the preservation of the wastelanders.
  
  There are not as many quests as one may think, but there complexity easily compensates for it. 
 The way a player acts towards their opposite character will change how their information is received, 
 and if it is useful. These decisions affect your karma, which can be good, bad, or any medium in 
 between. Karma can affect some of the perks that can be chosen, which are specific upgrades to 
 your character. These are incredibly helpful, as one can increase your firing accuracy, where another 
 allows you to feed as a cannibal to restore your health. Certain characters throughout the game 
 might be able to join players, and are intense companions. 
  
  Third-person view often looks awkward, and is best played in first-person. Armed with a number 
 of ranged or melee weapons, you can shoot, bash or blow up any enemies you fancy. It's combat is 
 simple, but satisfying. A great addition is the V. A. T. S. system, which allows you to pause time 
 and attack certain body parts on certain enemies. It's built on a percentage system, like a roll 
 of a dice, but it's very entertaining and is possibly the best part of the combat as a whole.
 
  
  Fallout 3 is not without its technical issues, however minimal they are. There are occasion visual 
 blotches, and oddities, and character models can have jagged edges. But the beautiful and terrible 
 nature of the environment and lovable characters, it's easy to overlook these issues. 
  
  Fallout 3 in the end has more in common with Oblivion and previous Bethesda titles than it does 
 with previous Fallout game. Fallout 3 is even better than Bethesda's old titles; it's more technically 
 impressive and offers more intense confrontations while retaining replay value. Whether you're 
 a newcomer or a devotee to the post-apocalyptic universe that is Fallout, the untold hours of entertainment 
 and moral decisions are waiting for you. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: joueurx
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 9, 2008 1:58 pm PT
Review:  The beginning was a bit different but fits in just fine. Also the standard things are good. That 
 would be graphics, game play, the overall style is fine. But the combat isn't fit for shooters 
 needs a cover system and the ending was disappointing plus it just ends there no free roam and 
 you don't get to finish up loose ends. Other then the fact guns weaken the game is just pure fun 
 to play dismemberment and gore make it a bloody excellent game to play if you like watching peoples 
 heads get blown away while half there body is going the other way and the rest is just up in the 
 air then this game is for you. Bloody mess perk is a must. I enjoyed the vats system it was a good 
 idea. All they need to do is make it open ending next time add some more depth to the game keep 
 the great story line add a cover system make repairing guns a little easier and then I think you 
 have a excellent game but for what it is if you liked previous Bethesda games this is a must. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheBurgerKing2
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 9, 2008 1:57 pm PT
Review:  Pros:
  1) You can do whatever you want to whether its a main mission, side mission, or just wandering 
 around the huge map of D. C. that Bethesda created 
  
  2) Quests are a lot of fun to do so you never get bored and you can always go exploring if you 
 need a break from missions 
  
  3) VATS is a lot of fun to pull off and it keeps the game fresh everytime you play.
  
  4) Graphics 
 are great and they are very atmospheric so hey make you feel like you are in Washington D. C. after 
 it has been bombed. 
  
  5) You can customize your character however you like and you can give them special attributes and 
 perks as you level up, you can also build your own weapons with materials you find laying around.
 
  
  6) A wide variety of weapons to choose from.
  
  7) Over a 100 hours of gameplay.
  
  Cons:
  1) Missions are a bit confusing sometimes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JROYAL76
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 9, 2008 12:29 pm PT
Review:  I've been playing for about 41 hours and I haven't even really started the main quest. There are 
 so many things to do in this world. I haven't enjoyed a game this much since Oblivion. I guess 
 I will have to get a Bethesda IV hooked up to my right arm. Basic line: If you like Elder Scrolls: 
 Oblivion you will like this game. Set in a post apocolyptic world in which everyone is your enemy, 
 and just a few could be your friends. The only real difference in this game from Oblivion is the 
 lack of magic and the additon of guns. There are also a lot of things in this that remind me of 
 things I liked about previous fallouts too. It is really creepy sometimes how realistic some of 
 the settings feel, no two seem to be alike. Walking around this world seeing stuff you might see 
 everyday but utterly destroyed, drives home the creepyness. The visuals in this game top all the 
 rest. I really love the new VAT system. I lets you stop time, and choose which part of a beast 
 or person you want to aim at. It really comes in handy with multiple enemies far off. It can give 
 you the chance to focus. I would not recommend it up close unless you only have one or two enemies 
 though. I does have the tendecy to go into super slow mo and stay a little too long. You get to 
 watch a bullet miss your target while three pepper your chest. If you are into good horror movies 
 you will love this too. There is something really satisfying about sniping a supper mutant who 
 has a rocket launcher popping his head off. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alexyyz
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 9, 2008 7:37 am PT
Review:  I have always been a fan of RPG, since we used to roll the dices on a table, imagine the environment 
 and stay up all morning playing between friends.
  
  I enjoyed very much Oblivion and Morrowind. Those games set a standard for free roaming RPGs to 
 come. But now my friend.... I have to say that Fall Out 3 overcomes them all. 
  
  Fall out 3 really puts you in the skin of a person in a post apocalyptic environment. It feels 
 you are inside the game... Amazing job for Bethesda Softworks!!
  
  The Story is really immersive, gameplay is great! 
  
  I gave a 10/10 cause I am screwing up 
 my job so I can get home and play the game! I cannot stop thinking about it! 
  
  Guys you have to try this! Is a unique feeling for those who like sci-fi, futuristic, Mad Max kind 
 of environment... where there is no law... is the law of the strongest that prevail.
  
  I bought my copy 4 days ago!! and i can tell you will not regret this game!! A true classic!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HsinadRamo
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 8, 2008 7:58 pm PT
Review:  Fallout 3 is set in a post-apocalyptic Washington DC and outside DC is the wasteland. It's a big 
 world that you can explore and its filled with crazy raiders which you can slaughter. You start 
 the game as a baby and you can choose if you want to be a boy or a girl and you get to choose how 
 your character looks like when he or she is 19 years old. The starting of the game is practically 
 about what happens when as you grow but it doesnt take so much time. When you finally reach the 
 age of nineteen, you will be rudely awaken by a girl named Amata and she tells you that your dad 
 has left the vault and you soon set out to find him. By the time you get out of the vault, you would 
 already have blood on your hands cause you probably killed some guards. You will be blinded by a 
 bright light for a while when you enter the wasteland but when it is clear you get to see a very 
 big world that you can explore. You will also be able to see the Washington Monument from afar. And 
 so, your journey to find your dad starts as you explore the corrupted world of DC. You gain exp by 
 killing people or discovering new locations. After discovering a location, you can fast-travel to 
 other locations that you have discovered. You can choose to make your character good or bad. When 
 your karma is high, it means that you are good and when it is low, it means that you are bad. There 
 are so much fun things that you can do in this game like blowing up a small town with a nuclear 
 bomb. This makes the game highly-addictive and a must buy. With very good graphics, great gameplay, extreme 
 violence and gore, and humour, you wont regret buying this spectacular game that is made by Bethesda. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: asurvivor
Rating: 3.5
Date: Dec 8, 2008 5:12 pm PT
Review:  Ok, nuclear holocoust, the sopposedly world is destroyed. You, 16 years old trying to find your 
 dad... runs off for some reason
  
  OK the game's atmosphere is amazing, i would believe this is what a nuclear holocoust would look 
 like
  
  Great Graphics and such
  
  Everything else sucks... Med-X packs only heal tiny bits of health while enemies take 2 hits to 
 kock that off... so you easily can find outself trapped inside a subway once u run out of med-X 
 packs... which also cost alot and money is extreamly hard to get
  Ammo is another lovely thing in Fallout that just is hard to come by. so i am trying to kill a 
 zombie when suddently i run out of ammo of my sawed-off-shotgun and i have to engage my pitt boy 
 and select another weapon, when only at max as like 5 bullets. 
  V. A. T. S. is forced. without VATS you cant shoot a mutated mole rat straight in-front of you, without 
 wasting all your ammo.
  Money didnt make any sence to me, i got like $300 (300 bottle caps) for standing in radiation, 
 in the name of science for like 2 hours. whitch i had to buy med-X's for my next quest. (I bought 
 like 6 from $300)
  
  Bethesda, stay with Elder Scrolls cuz Elder Scrolls ROCKS!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xxbababooeyxx
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 8, 2008 3:43 pm PT
Review:  Unlike the majority of games that i play i actually liked this game. (hope they dont delete this 
 review like so many of my others) . This game is Oblivion with guns essentially although it is not 
 as immersive or long as Oblivion. So its good, I like the perks and customization and V. A. T. S. 
 system. I like the ability to go anywhere and do anything. the story was good and there was some 
 pretty cool moments throughout the game. i would recommed that everyone play this game. While it 
 was good it was not Great and heres why....
  1. Leveling up happens to quickly. I go to the last level of 20 before I was even close to completing 
 the main quest and had not finished all of the side quests. When in an RPG you get to the point 
 where you can no longer level up the game instantly becomes pointless for me. I just hurried up 
 and finished the story. The solution is to either allow the chrarachter to level up as high as 
 they can or make it so you dont level up as quickly. you should be just finishing up your last 
 levels just before the final mission begin.
  2. there are a ton of locations on the map but the story and side quests dont take you there and 
 it becomes pointless to travel the map once you have reached level 20. their needed to be more 
 missions 
  3. Some items were pointless and some interactions were pointless. Grenades, mines, nuke missiles, 
 all kinda pointless. you can and i did beat the game with a sniper rifle and shotgun. thats all 
 you need. 
  
  Other than the leveling up problem and improper utilization of such a large map the game was good. 
 fix the problems I stated and the game would have been great, not oblivion great but great. Hopefully 
 there will be expansion packs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blueflob
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 8, 2008 9:21 am PT
Review:  Well, the game starts off great with amazing scripted events and drags you in for about 3 to 4 
 hours then it loses focus and you're back to Oblivion's boring fetch/kill/talk quest.
  
  The VATS system performs admirably well and the overall gameplay is fine but the game lacks content. 
 The weapon selection is smaller than the previous Fallouts, same with armors, drugs and edibles. 
 The whole DC area is populated by around 100 people with barely any of them memorable and the towns 
 are ridiculously small with nothing to explore.
  
  Then there's the stats system... it's been dumbed down so much, it barely has any effect on your 
 character's performance, much less its style of play. The dolls make this whole thing even more 
 ridiculous by allowing your character to gain 1 point in every SPECIAL attribute and 10% to every 
 skill, making a level 20 character maxed out in almost everything given you took 10 INT.
  
  Overall, the game is great but there's only about 4-5 hours of content and then it feels repetitive 
 with nothing worth accomplishing. Actions you take barely affect the world around you and there's 
 barely anyone to interact with. It's a good foundation but it feels empty, as if they are waiting 
 for player content to actually shape the world and fix the game's mistakes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kevin_Kaniff
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 8, 2008 6:11 am PT
Review:  This is a great game, here are the pros and cons first
  
  Pros:
  
  Great Combat
  Good Weapons
  Fun Missions
  Fun To Explore
  Looks Great
  Funny Dialogue
  Nice Level up 
 system
  Not too long loading times
  Many Many things to do
  
  Cons:
  
  Some people may not like repairing weapons/ armor
  Level Cap 
  
  I have been playing this 
 game since it came out and I have not yet got bored with it. I did take a little time to play Fable 
 II, however, I found myself completely bored and a little annoyed by that title. I think it is 
 because Fallout 3 had spoiled me so much. Not that I didn't like Fable II.... Just Fallout 3 is 
 too good.
  
  I know three DLC's are to come out soon, all three sound insanely fun. I have three characters 
 one evil, one good, and one neutral and can't wait to play the upcoming DLC's. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PradJ
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 7, 2008 7:28 pm PT
Review:  If you have played Oblivion, then you pretty much know what kind of RPG to expect from Fallout 
 3. Well, I was expecting a huge world where I could explore what I wanted and do what I wanted 
 unless I decided to take on a quest.
  
  As I've never played any Fallout game before, my expectations were met, and then exceeded. You 
 can make your own weapons! You can get creatures to fight by your side! These are just some of 
 the more surprising things I found with this awesome game.
  
  The way the game opens is brilliant, and I really felt like I had a connection with the father 
 character. The graphics and voice acting are about as good as they are in Oblivion, which to some 
 people might seem a bit dated, but I think the game is almost as close to being the perfect RPG.
 
  
  I am not sure when I will totally stop playing this game, but with the announcement of future DLC 
 I don't think I will stop in the next year or two. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yamanashi
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 7, 2008 10:02 am PT
Review:  Fallout 3 was the first game of the series I had tried out. My friend had coaxed me into making 
 this indecisive purchase. It was a little hard to get into, but once I did, this story punched 
 me right in the face. Having played Oblivion (with the Shivering Isles expansion pack) , I was no 
 stranger to Bethesda's power as a publisher. But what I didn't expect was the level of violence 
 this game had compared to its more fantastical companion. However, that didn't turn me off from 
 the game. Even after hours of watching enemies being mutilated by the game's variety of weapons, 
 I continued to be amused by it. Not that I am a sadistic human being, but rather the tastefullness 
 of the gore against a slow-motion screen seemed like art to me. Through the V. A. T. S., you are able 
 to pick which body part you want to go after. Of course, since I mastered the system, I haven't 
 used anything but. This game continues to deliver even after I have maxed my level and beaten most 
 of the quests. Just running around is fun to me. Fallout 3 FTW 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nomishood
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 7, 2008 7:39 am PT
Review:  With Fallout 3 Bethesda have achieved what they threatened to achieve with Oblivion but fell just 
 short - they've created a game-world that fully appears to live and breathe. The key distinction 
 between this classic and that classic is that in Fallout 3, even after 50 hours of exploration 
 you still feel the motivation to check every nook and cranny because you will be rewarded with 
 a little easter egg, or a unique weapon, or a quirky character.
  
  Where Oblivion had Caves, Forts and Dungeons, Fallout 3 has Cola factories, Satellite Arrays, Monument 
 basements, Government installations, Shanty-towns, Aircraft carriers, secret labs..... I could go 
 on. 
  
  There is some feeling of repitition, most obviously with the Metro stations, but on the whole it 
 appears that a lot more time was spent imbuing the map with a greater variety of locations to explore, 
 and as mentioned earlier usually you're rewarded.
  
  Compare this with Grand Theft Auto IV. Sure, Rockstar's version of New York looks the part, and 
 it certainly looks like it's full of adventure and exploration under the surface, but it's really 
 just a massive playground. You can walk around areas like the jail and Star Junction in GTA IV 
 and have a bit of fun, but there's not really much to discover. Try to imagine if you could wander 
 to pretty much any house or apartment building and find a character that has their own unique personality 
 and story to tell. 
  
  That would be impossible on that scale, but imagine that level of immersion and depth, albeit in 
 a wasteland, and you've got Fallout 3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Matt3811
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 6, 2008 10:42 pm PT
Review:  This is the best rpg since Oblivion. And it is the only one i have ever played that includes guns 
 (besides Final Fantasy) . You start of as a baby in vault 101 and eventually have to escape it when 
 your father mysteriously leaves the vault. The wastelands of D. C. is where the rest of the game 
 takes place. It looks like your typical post- apocalyptic wasteland full of super mutants, irradiated 
 animals, raiders, and the occasional shanty-town. all of your gear degrades realistically, eventually 
 your guns and clothes become unusable unless you repair them with a similar item of that type. 
 The most innovative part is the V. A. T. S. system, in which you can target a certain part of an enemies 
 body and it gives you information on how likely you are to hit it as well as the damage of the 
 limb, when you fire your gun in vats it is in slow motion with often gruesome results. All in all 
 this is a must have for any rpg fan's collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: R41N_M4K3R
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 6, 2008 1:47 pm PT
Review:  Fallout 3 is the deepest, most immersive and impresive game of 2008. The complex story is easy 
 enough to understand but leaves enough holes open for the imagination to run wild. The game takes 
 elements from the company's (Bethesda Studios) from previous entry Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion and 
 from the classic Fallout games of the '90's. 
  The graphics are simply amazing. The texture and detail of the game is the best I have ever seen. 
 The game also runs at a cool 60 frames per second and never has any hiccups in the gameplay. The 
 voice acting is much better then Oblivion because of the dozens of actors used in the game. 
  The overall world is extremely huge with enough replay value and side quests to keep you busy for 
 months to come. The only games that has a world that can come close to it are Oblivion and Grand 
 Theft Auto IV. 
  There are only a few small problems with the game such as the overall gun play is not as sharp 
 as many first person shooters today but it is far from poor. Also since the game is so large and 
 has so much crammed into it, the game will crash once in a while so it is important to save after 
 you do something important. 
  Overall this is the best game I have played this year and should be played by all gamers.
  9.5/10 
 ( Game of the Year) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jtberry
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 6, 2008 5:27 am PT
Review:  I'm about 8-9 hrs into it. I love all the character interaction, all the different choices you 
 have to make. The storyline is great. The graphics are amazing. At times I just stop and do a 360 
 just to check out the surroundings. The weapons are awesome. I really like the VATS. I love the 
 whole post apocalyptic thing. I usually only play shooters, so I found this to be a very nice change 
 of pace. The right mix of stealth, run-and-gun, and searching. The controls are smooth for the 
 most part, some very interesting characters. Love the ability to save, save, save. I really like 
 the scavenging aspect. There is so much stuff lying around. You ask yourself, "Will I need this 
 later?, or "Should I pick this up now and try to sell it?". The perk and skill system was a bit 
 confusing at first, but it really makes some of your choices all that more important, as far as 
 your character development. This is a game I can totally immerse myself in, and hopefully I'll 
 start thinking it's real and it will completely take over my life :) . Thanks Bethesda. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mangaminx
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 6, 2008 3:39 am PT
Review:  I don't want to rant about how great the original two games in the Fallout franchise were, but 
 they were pretty special and when it was announced that Bethseda were bringing the Fallout franchise 
 to a third instalment of post apocalyptic carnage they had a lot of fans dubious as to whether 
 their traditional style of free-roaming gameplay could match Bioware's previous efforts. Fortunately 
 the answer was a resounding yes, and while the game has more in common with the Elder Scroll franchise 
 than previous instalments in it's own, it manages to bring us from a fantasy realm of swords, magic 
 and vast landscapes into a dark dingy world of abandoned subways, bleak ruins and partially eaten 
 corpses with relative ease. Most of the aspects of the original games are here, from the stat system 
 known as SPECIAL to the look and feel of the vault and cities this time all beautifully realised 
 in 3D of course. Bethseda have taken care to make sure the game does pay tribute to the originals 
 well. Perhaps the only exception is that sexual content has been toned down (which to be fair doesn't 
 really make that much sense considering the massive levels of violence on display here) , considering 
 the original games were pioneering in same-sex relationships in video games and allowed you to 
 take a job as a porn star, Bethseda's half arsed attempts (which involve prostitutes wandering 
 around a few sexual lines of dialogue) look pretty poor. I even had several female characters flirt 
 with my female character and refer to her as male, which in the days of character interaction like 
 Mass Effect's is just lazy.
  
  Anyway, enough on comparisons Fallout 3 is a great standalone title and you require no knowledge 
 of previous Fallout games to enjoy it. Taking the role of a guy or girl born in the vault (an underground 
 civilization ruled over by a tyrannical overseer) you spend the tutorial part of the game growing 
 up from birth till some unexpected events interrupt your nineteenth year in the vault and you end 
 up ejected into the wasteland, probably with a fair bit of blood on your hands. From there you 
 must set out after your father who has also fled the vault and encounter various monstrosities, 
 civilisations and quests on the way. The world itself while depressing to look at and coloured 
 a lovely shade of vomit gray most of the time is superb to wander around as just like Oblivion 
 has a huge area to explore and wander through. In terms of creating a good story and environment 
 for it, Bethseda have done well as you'll find yourself involved in amazing set pieces as you progress 
 through the main story and travelling all round the map.
  
  Fallout 3 employs a morality system similar to many others out there, you can be good or evil but 
 also have the added option of neutrality. This allows for a bit more flexibility in your morality 
 although invariably half the time people will take evil decisions as there isn't anything quite 
 so fun as some as the utterly depraved things you can partake in, in the world of Fallout 3. Want 
 to blow up a city? Fine! Want to dress in a clown mask and horrifically maim people with a knife 
 as a child? You can do that too! Want to just be one of the most downright unpleasant human beings 
 ever? Well Bethseda certainly accomplish it here, the evil choices surpass anything previous done 
 in a video game and make the Renegade option in Mass Effect look like a total wuss. Character interactions 
 are great in Fallout 3 with some witty dialogue, some great voice acting (Bethseda must spend so 
 much getting A-List actors into their titles) and a cast that while not as memorable as the aforementioned 
 Mass Effect have a lot more life or in some cases un-life to them than Oblivion or Morrowind. 
 
  
  
  Obviously as you make all these decisions in the game you will also be fighting, combat in Fallout 
 3 reminds me distinctly of Deus Ex for some reason, although your not quite as inept with a gun 
 as in that title. For those unenlightened in Deus Ex when you start off your effectiveness with 
 a gun is similar to bubble wraps ability at protecting you from a nuclear warhead and in Fallout 
 3 combat is pretty much along the same lines. Fortunately Fallout 3 has deemed that it will aim 
 for you and there is the handy VAT's system to ensure you never miss, or if you do it's because 
 a part of the scenery like say the corner of a wall you didn't notice was there has inexplicably 
 grown in the way and blocked your bullet. VATS essentially allows for you to target body parts 
 of enemies and fire automatically, usually resulting in said body part rapidly departing from your 
 opponents body and trying to do more flips than an Olympic diver before it hits the floor. This 
 is accompanied by showers of gore and occasionally cries of awe from yourself as it does more often 
 than not look really, really cool. In premise it works well and only a few minor annoyances really 
 detract from it.
  
  One of the few things I will moan about in F3 is the fact there aren't really many optional quests, 
 compared to Oblivion at least there aren't many at all. Yes they are all pretty involving and lengthy 
 and the game took me around 40 hours to plough through but putting that in perspective Oblivion 
 took me 120 hours to plough through and I felt that not quite as much effort was put into that 
 part of the game. Also when you're on quests, the map can be decidedly un-cooperative, and you 
 can find yourself wandering through the greyish hues of the world for quite some time wondering 
 on earth your meant to be going because the pointer doesn't really seem to be going anywhere. You 
 will then eventually realise its pointing to the floor above you or something and you have no clue 
 how to get there, which results in more aimless fumblings in the dark than the night after peoples 
 first prom. When it comes to bug the game reportedly has it's fair share although I didn't really 
 come across any so I suppose I was just lucky. 
  
  Anyway:- in summary Fallout 3 is a great game, it offers a superb world shaping morality system, 
 it has entertaining combat, good character interactions and a believable environment with a good 
 back story. A few minor flaws detract from the experience here and there but it's nothing that's 
 going to stop you coming back to this wasteland for more blood soaked escapades in the future.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: wooly_mamoth
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 5, 2008 11:03 am PT
Review:  Fallout 3 is probably the best game in the Fallout series with amazing story, gameplay and visuals. 
 Set in the Nuclear wasteland of the D. C ruins, you have escaped from Vault 101 to find your father 
 and why he left.
  
  The main story is very good like we have expected from Bethesda with a good plot twist and some 
 interesting quests that make it enjoyable and worth replaying them to see different outcomes and 
 endings when you finish the main plot.
  
  But the main part for me in this game is the side quests and other things you can do in the gaint 
 wasteland. With stories ranging from killing fire breathing ants to saving a town from masked superheroes 
 it keeps the game alive with excellent humour and voice acting and so interesting rewards and consequence 
 with these quests. 
  
  The wasteland itself has so many things you can do in it and find that you can keep yourself occupied 
 for atleast 3 months finding and using all the special items and weapons in the gaming world. Activities 
 in this wasteland involve killing raiders in their outposts, helping the Brotherhood of Steel in 
 their quest of law, order and eliminating, collecting bobbleheads that enhance your abilities, brahmin 
 tipping, starting fights in towns that involve you killing everyone (dont try this, you will regret 
 it) and hypnotising people into slavery.
  
  The Karma system is very complex and determines lots of actions in the game world with how people 
 react around you, whether certain people will join you in your quest and where you can go in the 
 certain areas. You gain good karma through giving to the church, saving captives, completing quests 
 in a certain way and killing bad characters. Bad karma is the opposite of good (duh) with stealing, 
 picking locks, killing good people and dealing with bad guys.
  
  The stats system when you level up is very good with 20 different stats that you can improve in 
 the game with leveling up and perks. Special stats are your core abilities which all skills from 
 barter to unarmed. The others are improved with each level attained by either assigning points 
 to them or taking perks that do (Size Matters for example increases Big Guns by 5 each time this 
 perk is taken) .
  
  The perks coming in many flavours with weapons based ones to stats based ones. The best of these 
 are Bloody Mess (more gore) , Better Criticals (criticals do more damga) , Mysterious Stranger (In 
 VATS, an ally appears with a .44 scoped magnum and finishes opponents, one of these killed a Behmoth) 
 and Explorer (shows nearly every location on the map, Rockopolis and other small places arent shown) . 
 Some need a certain number of points in some stat areas and level to get will others dont need 
 these.
  
  Combat is very good, made better with VATS. This system lets you target body parts while paused 
 and when finished shows a slow motion sequence of either hiting, killing or missing the target. 
 Some of these are just completely gorey when you have the bloody mess perk (whole body explodes 
 with a good head shot from shotgun) .
  
  What stops it getting 10 is the game can become very unforgiving if you do something wrong and 
 people that were friendly start trying to kill you. Sometimes you can be stuck in a place where 
 as soon as you spawn you are under fire with little health and no stimpaks or aid meaning you die 
 before you can get to cover or away. Then there are the bugs, not that these comprimise gameplay 
 but sort ruin the effect for example Mole Rats running arond on their heads which are submerged 
 then if you shot them they fly strainght up and fall to the ground dead and spasming bodies when 
 they land on a box or item of scenery that justs makes the game slightly silly. But the worse niggle 
 I have is the third person animation, the running looks shocking, especially if you are holding 
 a pistol, it looks like a disjointed run with a pistol at your hip like Rambo, that just looks 
 aweful
  
  Overall this game offers some much for a console game and really lives up to what it was promised 
 to be with a solid story, amazing gameplay and graphics and some unbelievable sceanerios. Go and 
 buy now 
::::::

::::::
UserName: glendale1
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 17, 2009 6:17 pm PT
Review:  Bethesda Softworks really knows their stuff. The Elder Scrolls series has been phenomenal and who 
 knew they could pull this gem outa' their proverbial butts. I didn't even know they were working 
 on this game. For me, it came out of nowhere. Wham!! I was hooked. 
  First off I noticed it is highly customizable (as far as your main character's sex, face, hair 
 and race go) . Not like Oblivion, which kind of saddened me; but quite a bit more than any other 
 game. Note to game developers: We love looking at ourselves! And character customization only sweetens 
 that vice. I do not know why more developers catch on to this fact.
  The game is beautifully rendered. Being a longtime Bethesda (or Bethsoft) fan, it took me a while 
 to get used to the bleak grays and washed out yellows and greens of this game. The colors are realistic 
 more than vibrant, but once I adjusted to it, I noticed the game really is one of the best rendered 
 ever. This does lead to my only criticism of the game: the gore content. Body parts are strung 
 out everywhere, you can eat corpses, you can sleep in beds with dead bodies, heads exploded like 
 a ripe tomato when you shoot them or simply come unattached and lie around for days. It is without 
 a doubt one of the most visceral games I ever played, so be prepared. A gore setting would have 
 been ideal for this game as my 13 year old nephew is chomping at the bit to play it, but I have 
 no intention of letting that happen. I can't even let him watch me play for 5 minutes because the 
 gore is so ever present.
  The storyline is secondary. It was well written although a little thin and way too short. The characters 
 could have been fleshed out a lot more as they are also a bit unsubstantial, especially compared 
 to Bethesda's Elder Scrolls series. I did find some of their characteristics like speech and movement 
 tics interesting and fresh. A valiant effort and a good sight better than most, but all games need 
 to work on this particular aspect of the game. I expected a bit more from Bethesda as this is kind 
 of their "thang", but I recognize that they are working within the constraints of an already established 
 franchise. The story is, however, engaging and well played.
  The gameplay is amazing. "Highly Addictive" is the coined phrase. I played every quest I could 
 find. I played the game twice and then started a third time. Replay value is high as you can play 
 as "good", "evil" or anything in between. It all ended too quickly and abruptly, which was a surprise. 
 I won't give away the ending, but it was not satisfying for me at least. 
  Overall, I would have to say this has got to be one the best games ever produced, definitely the 
 a game of the year candidate.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: madgamer910
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 4, 2008 8:21 pm PT
Review:  A great game that is fun to play with cool perks and way fun bonus missions that actualy make you 
 want to do them. Also the prevois games were great and this game is a great game that is among 
 the other fallout games as some of the best games in existance. And to all you people that hate 
 this gamevwhat are you thinking do you hate r. p. g's are shooters if you do why are you playing 
 thais great game and dissing it just because you dont like it. To all you people that are considering 
 too get it get it but if you dont belive me try to find some were you can rent it and play if you 
 dont like it O. K if you do get the game now and there. Her is a hint for all you first time players 
 put perks into small guns, medicne, and eatier barter or repair. Also search for bubleheads and 
 get all of them before level 15. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SEVANTY7
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 4, 2008 6:19 pm PT
Review:  Fallout 3 = GOTY for sure. I don't think Bethesda could have made it any better. You might notice 
 a lot of people posting "spoilers" but those are just the people who can't accept perfection. Graphics 
 are up in the rankings of great, not the best but who really notices the amount of rocks on the 
 distant cliff when they're blowing off a super mutants head? The "world map" basically explains 
 it, it's THE WORLD MAP takes me longer to walk somewhere in this game then in real life which might 
 sound like a bummer but it only means your going to get your 59.99 or whatever Fallout's going 
 for these days. The enemies in the game are great. I love the variety of creepies you get to duke 
 it out with. From the bloatfly's to super mutant behemoths it's all great fun. It's considerably 
 the best game i've ever played. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LeperMessiah44
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 4, 2008 4:00 pm PT
Review:  After Interplay laid off Black Isle Studios (the original developers of Fallout and it's sequel, 
 Fallout 2) , Interplay sold the rights to make more Fallout games to Bethesda Softworks, the developers 
 of the popular Elder Scrolls series, and they recently released Fallout 3. Fallout 3 now features 
 a first-person and third-person style of combat and V. A. T. S. style combat, which pause the game 
 and allow the player to target specific body parts of the enemy. The world of Fallout 3, much like 
 Oblivion, is an open sandbox style world where you can travel where you want when you want (although 
 you may end up stumbling into a high-level area to much for you early on in the game) The graphics 
 aren't anything special. Far away textures look down right unpleasant. The gore however is disgustingly 
 beautiful. Well placed head-shots will send your foes heads clean off. The story isn't very long. 
 I beat it in two days. But the side-quests will keep you busy for a while. You also have your now 
 common these days good and evil endings, so you'll have a good reason to go through the game at 
 least twice. But, this games is great and is well worth the purchase. Go ahead, run out and get 
 it, go on! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MighteyMouse2
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 4, 2008 2:40 pm PT
Review:  This game is phenomenal, hands down. Enough can't be said about this game. 
  
  I rented it over Thanksgiving break, tried it for like an hour, thought it was weird but pretty 
 cool. A few of my friends stayed over Thanksgiving night and we played; and we just didn't stop 
 playing. We played all the way through Friday and they stayed over again; and we played some on 
 Saturday too. We were absolutely taken in by this game and entranced by it's vast world, multitude 
 of weapons, perks, armors, items... etc. 
  
  It was amazing how you could talk to anyone, influence them by your reactions as it in turn affected 
 your karma when you stole or killed. The lock on targeting system is sweet as hell. You meet a 
 large variety of characters along the way, human, ghoul, animal and beast; not all friendly. 
 
  
  The entire game plays out based on how you go about completing mission objectives, and really, 
 who you keep alive till the end of the game with you.
  
  Teaming up with other allies and exploring the landscape to do your business is awesome. They really 
 help you out in a bind or when you have multiple enemies to fight at one time.
  
  You have a choice to make, Live in Megaton or live in Tenpenny Tower. I chose to live in megaton 
 because Mr. Burke just was too shady for my liking and i didn't have the heart to kill everyone 
 in Megaton by blowing up the warhead...
  
  In the one mission where i talked to Tenpenny about the ghouls living in the tower, i convinced 
 the residents i needed to, to get Tenpenny's approval for the ghouls to live there. I kinda liked 
 the ghouls up to this point; they never tried to kill me, so i didn't think i needed to kill them. 
 
  
  Well good ole Roy decided to kill all the residents after they moved in anyways. So that really 
 pissed me off and I blew Roy away. So from now on i kill all the ghouls i see. Except Willow, she's 
 cool. 
  
  I have not yet completed the game, but i think i am getting there. the game is amazing, I'd recommend 
 it to anyone. I'll be buying it even after i beat it, simply because the replay level of this game 
 is through the roof. No one game you play through will ever mirror another. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mikees1
Rating: 2.5
Date: Dec 4, 2008 1:55 pm PT
Review:  i brought this game on the basis of the hype it got and some extremly generous reviews. I hated 
 every minute of it! it was just empty to me and completely unenjoyable. I guage a games realism 
 by many things, one of them is the ability to use a weapons irons sights and to me this was the 
 first in a long line of let downs. Sorry but being chased by over sized cockroaches just isnt fun 
 (Fact people: cockroaches were predicted to survive a nuclear war but not to multiply their size 
 by a few thousand times if they did survive!) nor wasps, crabs or any other nonsensicle beings and 
 if i wanted to go round fixing pipes id have brought a 1980's style handheld mario game. This game 
 didnt cut it for me because i cant suspend my mind to accept BS like this. I like my games to be 
 kept firmly on earth (in this dimension also!) and have realism, iv tried to branch out and try 
 new games of a different nature to the ones i normaly play but thats it. Im going to stick to ones 
 i know now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BadMonk
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 4, 2008 4:06 am PT
Review:  ok being a BIG fan of oblivion and bethsoft in general, i was really excited to get my copy of 
 FO3!!!
  having put over 200 hours into the previous elder scrolls title, i was hoping that this title would 
 give me the same amount of satisfaction & playing time as beth's other RPG and boy i was bnot wrong!!!
 
  
  ok read some of the professional reviews if you want to know more about the story, technical stuff 
 etc, i am just a gamer who loved games and want to let others know how amazing FO3 is!
  
  i have played 40 hours to date, and enjoying every sec, you can adjust the difficulty slider if 
 things get too rough for you and you can save your game anywhere which is a huge bonus in todays 
 games as a lot of other titles do not have this feature.
  
  FO3 can be played from a first or 3rd person perspective and this is easily toggled with the left 
 bumper, plus you can zoom in or out pretty far, even as far to please the more old school isometric 
 fallout 3 fanboys :) to give that 'top shot' feel to it!
  1st person is more immersive imo, but i do like to have a gears of war style over the shoulder 
 view to check out my guys armor etc plus sometimes hiding round corners is good to get a 'sneak 
 peak' @ the threat (s) that are awaiting you!
  
  now VATS, is a love or hate thing, i personally love it as it makes a change from my usual diet 
 of twitch 3rd and 1st person frag fests, not that i sometimes dont play FO3 like that,,,,,, i do 
 :)
  but its nice to kick back, whack VATS on and watch a cool as ice, cinematic cut scene play out 
 where you character goes all bad a$$ on some post apocalyptic mutant!! slow mo style!!
  
  the visuals in FO3 are stunning, taking into account how BIG and HUGE this gameworld is, you can 
 roam around for HOURS, just exploring and finding stuff, and FO3's level up system and its 'perks' 
 are awesome!!!
  
  so if you like MASSIVE, open world RPG's with some FPS elements thrown in all wrapped up in a cool 
 story with fantastic replay value and has legs longer than the empire state then fallout 3 might 
 just be the game you will never fallout with :)
  
  (sorry i had to do it!!)
  
  peace
  
  Bad Monk
  x 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Brain_Fillets
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 4, 2008 5:33 am PT
Review:  In the tradition of most rpg's with deep story-lines this game takes time and dedication to really 
 enjoy. Whether it's 8 hours a day, or just a couple of hours here and there, you have to put the 
 time in to really enjoy this game.
  
  Once you get into it you're not going to be able to stop. There is a huge area to explore, tons 
 of mutants and other enemies to kill, and many decisions to make. 
  
  I think I started around 5 characters and had different experiences with pretty much all of them 
 by choosing different stats and perks. Beyond those decisions, which could take a while to choose, 
 there are the things you say to people, and the way you act towards them.
  By being friendly or a bully, you can either gain or lose companions that will give you a hand 
 when you get into trouble.
  
  The landscape is amazing. While walking around exploring all of the homes and other old buildings, 
 I couldn't help but think about all of the time and effort it took to model and texture all of 
 this stuff.
  
  You can look at pictures and read reviews until your eyes get blurry, but until you play it you 
 will never understand why your friends don't answer their phones anymore. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: netgameboy
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 3, 2008 7:04 pm PT
Review:  I've been through all the achievements, played the game 4 times now, basically I can't imagine 
 when the last time I will play this will be. What month, what year. I'm a long time Oblivion fan, 
 don't have a lot of experience with the previous Elder Scrolls. Same thing here with Fallout. When 
 I like a game and review it I usually get the bad stuff out of the way first so I can talk about 
 how much I really like it.
  
  In this case it's again the software Bethesda uses, same with Oblivion. As much as I wanted to 
 give this a perfect 10, my game has crashed so many times, I just couldn't do it. Speaking of things 
 I couldn't do, one of them was blow up Megaton. The game has been the first offering of a heavy 
 morality choice since Bioshock. On par with Bioshock, I could not kill little sisters, again I 
 believe I will never blow up Megaton. Hopefully I can play the explosion by downloading a video 
 from Xbox Live lol.
  
  In the end I may add to this later, but I've never laughed so much, been scared, exhilerated, happily 
 confused, or just downright enthralled at the continuing journey through the Wasteland. I am so 
 in the groove of this game, I don't know when I'm playing something else for more than a few hours. 
 I hope you find Fallout 3 as riveting, deep, and compelling as I have. Make sure you have plenty 
 of food in the fridge before you start. :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: npili
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 3, 2008 2:06 pm PT
Review:  All the previous Fallout games (excluding the horrible Fallout: Brotherhood of Steel) hold a special 
 place in my gaming heart. When I first heard that Fallout 3 was actually being made, I almost shed 
 a tear! However, I was quite distraught to find out that it was going to be a primarily played 
 through a -GASP!- first person perspective. Luckily, my worries were moot as this new iteration 
 is now my favorite of the series!
  
  Gameplay: 10\10
  
  The best part about playing this game is the ability to approach nearly any battle, conversation, 
 or decision the way you want to at any given time. You can play as a 'good' character for most 
 of the game, but still have the option to kill an innocent merchant and steal his wares if you 
 want to. You can try to convince a gang to stop harrassing a nearby town by brokering a deal or 
 you can take them all down one by one with your baseball bat. The decisions are nearly endless 
 and entirely up to you!
  
  The options for fighting is very robust. You have the option to defeat an opponent simply by shooting 
 them FPS style. Or, and preferably, with a touch of a button you can enter the VATS system and 
 have the option to perform cinematic head shots or shooting an enemy's arm off. Every battle you 
 enter gives you a chance to dismember bad guys in your own sick way! 
  
  You will eventually collect a massive array of weapons to use at your disposal. The sheer amount 
 of weapons available in this game can be staggering, but if you hone your skills toward one or 
 two classes of weapons, you can pretty much disregard the rest. Basically, if you want to play 
 as a pistol wielding gunslinger, then keep investing your skill points toward 'Small Guns', that 
 huge, bulky mini-gun can be left at home because it will be quite ineffective. Keep in mind, that 
 you can make a jack-of-all-trades character, too. It will just take a bit longer to develop the 
 extra skills.
  
  Graphics: 9\10
  
  I can't believe how well and accurate Bethesda was able to create a Fallout world. If you've played 
 the original Fallout games, then you can appreciate the attention to detail they did when bringing 
 the Fallout setting to a 3D realm. The landscapes and ruins of a post-nuclear Washington DC is 
 amazingly detailed and surprisingly varied. Don't get me wrong, you'll be walking through a lot 
 of desolate wasteland. However, that wasteland is one of the best looking wastelands you will ever 
 see! Also, when you come across a forgotten trainyard or a broken down village, the stark difference 
 with the rest of the environment will draw you in and give you the urge to explore. 
  
  People and creatures are well designed and look great. One of my only complaints is that there 
 aren't many differences between body types in people. Most humans all look about the same weight 
 and height depending on gender. Even when creating your own character, you do not have any way 
 to manipulate his\her weight or stature. Also, creatures don't have a lot of variation. When you've 
 seen one radscorpion, you've seen them all! But, these are minor gripes that won't detract from 
 the game itself. The graphics overall are great and very detailed!
  
  Sound: 9\10
  
  The music is great, although repetitve. You do have the option to shut it off and just listen to 
 some eerie ambient tunes and the desert wind. The voice acting is top-notch. There is a lot of 
 dialouge so having good voice acting is a blessing! Also, every gunshot to the face and every crack 
 from your bat sounds especially gruesome in VATS mode.
  
  Value: 10
  
  I'll be playing this game over and over and over, just like the original Fallout games. I'm the 
 type of gamer that likes to play a great game until I've seen and done everything. Since this game 
 has multiple ending scenarios and so many different ways to handle a given situation, I will be 
 enjoying Fallout 3 for a long, long time. But, even if you plan on just playing it once, you'll 
 have a great time experiencing this immersive game!
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: weaver657
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 3, 2008 9:16 am PT
Review:  This game is more in depth then anything i've seen from Bethesda. The game play is crazy. There 
 were times when I played for an Hour or two and got nothing done in the quest but I still was engulfed 
 by the game. I have 48 hours in game play and I never realized I had been playing that long. I 
 am putting off going through the last quest so I can explore more. This is the first time I have 
 done this with a game. The details they put into the game are insane. When you are exploring you 
 find things and information that has nothing to do with any of the quests its just extra info about 
 the world and what has happened before. I have been playing games since Nintendo and I have never 
 felt this way towards a game. If you are on the edge considering this game you should definitely 
 get it you won't regret it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sagameister3
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 2, 2008 3:23 pm PT
Review:  Since I first started playing it I haven't found a reason to call it quits, it just keeps pulling 
 you back! Just like fable2 you are able to make your character into an evil, good or neutral one, 
 except that your appearance doesn't alter but then again you can fix that with a hair cut or quick 
 visit to the doctor in Rivet city ;) . The graphics are great, the sound is too as well as the voice 
 acting. The fps style of shooting isn't bad but what would've made it great could be a lock-on 
 system that's not in VATS mode. Besides that and not being able to continue after the ending ( 
 multiple saves are a must) there are really no other flaws to this game. With the ability to change 
 difficulties on the fly it isn't hard to get through this game. Most games would leave you at your 
 current difficulty setting but not fallout 3. If you are a fan of rpgs and first person shooters 
 then this game has the best of both worlds, once you start playing you will find little reason 
 to stop ;) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: trax0r1990
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 2, 2008 2:53 pm PT
Review:  As soon as the game loads up you can tell it's been made by Bethesda, throughout the entire beginning 
 training scene, the controlling methods, the visuals and the dialogue, but don't get me wrong, 
 it's not just Oblivion with a new skin, it's something new and amazing.
  
  First of all, I'll discuss the graphics - sheer beauty, not in the Assassin's Creed way, but in 
 a completely new way, the landscape is absolutely enormous and just seems to go on forever, and 
 with the new method of displaying main landmarks in the distance and smaller ones as you move towards 
 the landmarks is great. There has never been much emphasis on lighting from Bethesda, and although 
 during the day etc, the shadows from landmarks etc are good, but as for shadows on characters, 
 it seems like a big no... No dynamic lighting perhaps? The character models are very very good, 
 although the third person mode isn't something that Bethesda should be proud of, as it doesn't 
 seem to react to the environment at all, always stood at 90 degrees and running the same... Not 
 that you notice this during the V. A. T. S mode, which really does look great.
  
  The integration of the Pip-Boy 3000 is really cool, especially if you use the medicine to make 
 your stealth 100% which makes you invisible, because when you bring up the Pip-boy, it's transparent 
 (think Stealth mode on Metal Gear Solid) , except for the text floating in the air.
  
  Bethesda have done surprising well on the dialogue this time, considering their previous titles 
 only have three or four voice actors, which is incredibly irritating. The voice acting is very 
 good, and the choice of responses is even better, although I still wish to this day that you could 
 just press 'B' on the controller to go back to the previous page, instead of scrolling to the bottom 
 and press "Let's talk about something else...".
  
  Other than these, there's nothing really to worry about, the firing systems etc are very good, 
 the new V. A. T. S system is amazing. They really have made an all round excellent game, which I know 
 I'm going to spend up to 100 hours of my free time playing.
  
  Here's one tip whilst playing the game: turn your text display colour to white, it looks way better 
 than green, amber or blue. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dead2lock
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 2, 2008 12:04 pm PT
Review:  I loved game. Bethesda makes another winner, but like most others, you have some much to see, but 
 so little variation on what to do. It had it's quests and what not, but for my own standards, it 
 needed more. Maybe more factions or side gang you could join and fiddle around with, like the Thieves 
 guild or Assasins guild in Oblivion. Just a little extra doodads would have sufficed. Besides that 
 minor imperfection, and I mean minor, This was a well developed game. Large landscape, mutiple 
 sites to see, and many, many different 'dungeons' to explore. Even racking up achiements was alot 
 easier to rack up then other games with their 'beat game on medium/hard/INSANE!!!' achievments. 
 Some games don't have enough replay to so such feats. Fallout does. The difference between good 
 and evil is quite noticable. Like deciding if you will live in one town, or wipe out all inhabitants 
 and then blow it up.
  
  Final thought. Great game, but needs a doodad. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Handsome-Dead
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 2, 2008 11:42 am PT
Review:  At the beginning of November, I submitted a couple of blog entries regarding this game.
  
  The first expressed my childish excitement and desire to own/play Fallout3, and the second was 
 a short update of first impressions of my early adventures in the Post-Apocalyptic Wasteland of 
 Washington D. C.
  
  Yes, the game did have me well and truly hooked!
  
  Just ask any of my poor, unfortunate flat mates, they'll tell you that all they heard until roughly 
 3am every morning was gunfire and Billie Holiday... Quite a mix.
  
  Fallout 3 was bordering on a Morrowind beater...
  
  ... but then it wained.
  
  Don't get 
 me wrong, there is a lot to like in Fallout 3, and I'm not for a moment suggesting that I no longer 
 like it, so I should probably begin to justify my critique.
  
  There ARE a lot of positives to this game, the story (for the main part) is immersive and should 
 definately hold your attention through to the end, I'm sure that the power gamers amongst our ranks 
 will be sucked straight in and probably end up ignoring the side quests. A shame really, considering 
 that some of the side quests are a hell of a lot of fun, and can often end up being more enjoyable 
 than some quests within the main storyline. There is also replayability in attempting to tackle 
 these missions in a good/evil manner, allowing you to observe different outcomes, Megaton being 
 the best example.
  
  The soundtrack is, quite simply, phenomenal. It really does capture the time that the Earth was 
 subjected to the Nuclear Blast, with the only recorded artists heard being those popular in the 
 1930's, including Billie Holiday, The Ink Spots and Roy Brown, amongst others. It certainly creates 
 an atmosphere and is, in some ways, quite haunting. However, with the 30 track song roster, you 
 are going to be hearing these tracks a lot (if you keep your PiP-Boy Radio on at all times, like 
 myself) .
  
  Equipment can break on you at any given moment in the game, wearing quickly with use. This can 
 be a major problem in heated firefights, particularly for those of you who, much like myself, choose 
 not to invest in 'repair' skills, having your beloved assault rifle break on you in the midst of 
 a heated battle can be particularly heart-wrenching. Still, the game's merchants offer repair services, 
 and so assuming you can cough up the caps, this really shouldn't be a problem.
  
  The V. A. T. S system bears good and bad qualities. The good being that allows you to increase your 
 potential of getting a critical hit, and also allows for you to focus on a specific body part. 
 The bad is that by freezing the game and bringing up the body part menu, you are taken out of the 
 action to a certain degree, especially when witnessing the computer take control of your character 
 to fire off rounds at your selected target.
  
  My one major quarrel overall however is the ending. The ending is horrible! It feels so rushed, 
 and so anti-climactic, that I almost guarantee you will be left feeling disappointed, and it really 
 is a shame, because the story is, on the whole, rather strong, making the end feel abrupt, and 
 perhaps not rounded enough. I certainly felt that the main storyline to the game was really short, 
 fortunately it offers enough side quests to add longevity and interest.
  
  Overall the game is still definately worth your time, and money, and will almost certainly keep 
 you entertained whilst it lasts. Just watch out for the ending which is highly likely to disappoint.
 
  
  I give the game an overall score of 8.5/10, this would have been an 8.0 if not for the prospect 
 of downloadable content in the near future. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nazarimous
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 2, 2008 10:25 am PT
Review:  Well... the game is great in so many ways, the action and other things are great along with the 
 landscape and graphics. The story along with the characters are deep and are not without meaning.
 
  
  The Good: True and innovative gameplay along with a unique story line that keeps you busy. The 
 side quests are vast and they all press down on interesting issues such as slavery, the rights 
 of a android, and many other morality deep side stories that make you think. All the people within 
 the game have great character and back story to each one, each one is their own and it's best that 
 way. The action in the game is a refreshing change from the fast pace, seizure enduced shooters 
 you see around. Also the final mission with the large robot was beautiful but a bit too easy.
 
  
  The Bad: I found the combat to be innovative, but I found aiming at longer medium distance without 
 the VATS to feel a bit awkward. Also the levels stopping at lvl 20 did rater disappointed me, I 
 was hoping to grow and expand my character a bit more before I hit the cap. Also the final boss 
 was quite disappointing, I clicked a few buttons and his blew up, I wanted to kill something a 
 bit more challenging then the Behemoth. 
  
  Overall: I had fun with this game and really got into it, but alas it left me wanting more progression 
 and character building, I wanted to see my guy become a juggernaut by the end of the game and I 
 wanted to face juggernauts. Great game, great story, good action, goodbye. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yduc
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 2, 2008 9:04 am PT
Review:  fallout 3 is an amazing game PROS
  the graphics are alright but i have seen better but i've seen far worse
  the gameplay is hard 
 at first but as u get used used to it it grows on to u the VAT is a fun tool often leading to a 
 good advantage such as crippling a body part or it just kills them in a funny gross way
  the SPECIAL skill system is fun as it lets u make the character u want in an easy way
  the character 
 modification system is cool making the character u want 
  CONS
  the map is annoying as it dosent tell u where the different levels are everything looks like one 
 floor
  the game can be to hard sometimes this is due to enemies sneak attackin u but i guess i just have 
 to get used to that
  er.... well..... that is all the cons
  
  Overall
  fallout 3 is an amazing game with a few done sides but the positives make the game well worth it 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DFWisely
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 2, 2008 10:19 am PT
Review:  Bethesda masters of the form of RPG making, who crafted possibly the greatest RPG series of all 
 time (to me at least) the Elder scrolls meant that anything else they made had alot to live up 
 to. Fallout 3 doesnt disapoint infact it exceeds expectations and nearly meets the sky high standards 
 of oblivion. The fact that its not quite on the same level as the Elder Scrolls is by no means 
 a bad thing as its gets alot of the same things right that made the elder scrolls so great (though 
 it doesnt do all of them quite as well) Fallout 3 has a brilliant gritty setting and atmosphere 
 that really add to the overall enjoyment of the game. The real time combat with the newly introduced 
 V. A. Ts tactical combat system is nothing short of genius and it never gets old using it blow away 
 enemies, its fun and easy to use. The quests although fewer and more far between than oblivion 
 but are longer and have the added effect of good or bad which really opens up some depth. Fallout 
 3's quest offer great oppertunites to adventure in the atmospheric Capitol waste land. There are 
 loads of other features in the game like the brilliantly funny black comedy radio stations such 
 as GNR, great characters and adventure filled quests in a ruined DC that really make this one an 
 amazing game and above the rest in most cases. 
  
  92/100 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ozzmanx3
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 1, 2008 9:18 pm PT
Review:  Forget the minor glitches and AI issues that any game this complex is bound to have. The game mechanics 
 are by far solid enough to present the Fallout universe the way the developers intended. That is 
 what truly matters. The superficial elements of the game do feel like Oblivion, but beyond that 
 you quickly forget this game is related in any way. There are intense moments and lull moments, 
 but the lull moments help bring out the intense ones. It is a fantastic game, but don't expect 
 innovation. Personally I don't think a game needs to be innovative to be a great game, as long 
 as there is polish and a tightening of the bolts. A suggestion to make the game fun for yourself. 
 You don't need to min/max a character to make it through the game. Bethesda did a great job in 
 that arena. Create a well-rounded or exciting character, and role play it. I stuck by my usual 
 formula: 1 combat skill (small guns) , 1 utility skill (science) , 1 social skill (speech) . Since 
 I also chose perks and added high intelligence to get a bunch of skill points per level, I am also 
 able to minor in sneak, which is helpful for getting those critical shots. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blarg_blarg
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 1, 2008 7:13 pm PT
Review:  I was a bit worried when I decided to buy this game. My friends were pressuring me and I was just 
 not sure if I had $60 to spend on a game that wasn't my style. We you know how it turned out? I 
 bought it and I love it. This game blows my mind. The game play is just great. Take Halo, Gears 
 of War, Bioshock, and Fable. Put them all in a blender with a hint of cinnamon, and you get Fallout 
 3. In Fallout 3 you can choose the style of gaming that fits you best. If you like third person 
 shooters best, then feel free to play in third person. If you like first person shooters, play 
 in first person. If you are a real douche bag, then be evil in game. It is completely up to you. 
 The graphics are amazing. the world is almost all explorable and little or no boundaries or loading 
 screens are encountered while playing the game. It really is a phenomenal game. Give it a whirl! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Crazy_Kid314
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 1, 2008 1:49 pm PT
Review:  !Fantastic!
  
  This game is fun and if you remotely like RPGs or any shooter, then just buy this game now or wait 
 till christmas. It is that good. (Oblivion worries or those who have any doubt, don't. I did and 
 I really regret it)
  
  Beautiful graphics, unbelievable amount of detail, and limbs flying off of bodys (especialy heads) 
 is so pleasing. You'll love the slo-mo of the vats system and it kicks you in your ass for not 
 seeing somthing so cool before. The story is aight but the real fun is exploration.
  
  I love this game, and for those who cry, lower the difficulty and just look around, you will love 
 this then. I see nothing bad about this game and i'm scepticle when it comes ti video games. 
 
  
  I beat through the game and only got to level 13. (there r 20 levels to get to) I just restarted 
 an I am already level 6. 
  
  Play the game, have fun, and remember:
  when u get the chance, get the Bloody Mess perk. It's the best! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chizaqui
Rating: 1.5
Date: Dec 1, 2008 9:51 pm PT
Review:  Ah, the greatest thing about this game was the world itself. From the moment you load the game, 
 you feel as if you yourself are living this post-apocalyptic undertaking. From the keen dialogue 
 (Liam Neeson sporting the voice of Dad) to the real sense of family and belonging, Fallout 3 grabs 
 you on an emotional level and doesn't let go.
  
  That feeling lasted until Jefferson Memorial, for me. It took me awhile to figure out why the credits 
 might be an option from the menu, but made all the more sense once I realized that I wouldn't actually 
 have the chance to make it to the end of the game. From what I've seen, many players at many different 
 points have experienced a major freezing issue during this game. Some blame it on NXE, but it is 
 Bethesda's job to be prepared, correct? I imagine the grandeur of the game could have only gotten 
 better, but now the last memories I have are looking over the bodies of super-mutants whilst trapped 
 in the ruins of the memorial.
  
  It begs the question though. With an error that big in development, was this game actually tested. 
 Looking back at Bethesda's earlier work, I can only assume it was. I again find myself wondering, 
 this time if they took the necessary time to test it correctly.
  
  As a middle-class gamer, I was torn between Fallout 3 and other good games that released these 
 past few months. The actual facilitation of buying the game set me back on quite a few fronts, 
 and trusting from Bethesda's earlier work, I felt justified at purchase time. Bethesda hasn't even 
 addressed their online community with reassurance that the problem would be fixed. Fallout 3, to 
 me, seems more like a economic joke to the fans that waited patiently the last few months (or years) . 
 
  
  I would have scored Fallout 3 lower, had I not thoroughly enjoyed the opening to the game. Other 
 than that, what Bethesda has done to its fans is downright shameful. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: better-than-U
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 30, 2008 9:02 am PT
Review:  Finally its here and i have enough freetime to review it: FALLOUT 3... well to start with i have 
 completed oblivion (everything) but have never played fallout 1 or 2. it plays very similar to oblivion 
 with he way you move, recieve quests, gameplay etc.
  [this paragraph contains mild spoliers] when you start the game you will be born hearing your mother 
 screaming giving birth to you (nasty) you are living in a vault with your family inderground with 
 loads of oher people avoiding the consequences and danger of a nuclear around 200 years ago... from 
 here you choose your gender, face when your older etc... and then time fast fowards and your in your 
 playpen as a child... this is where you learn the basic controls... then it fast fowards to your 
 7th birthday were your father gives you a BB gun and you learn the basics of combat. then you will 
 fast fowards again to you adolesence were you take a test and basically you discover your father 
 is missing and then you leave the vault in search of him in a nuclear destroyed version of washington 
 DC.
  from here you are lef in a world about 75% the size of Oblivions landscape.
  you will level up from here, come across various cities and towns all with different personalitys 
 and charachtes. The game is extreamly well structured: their is 20 level to go threw before you reach 
 the limit (unlinke oblivions unlimited level systym) so you must make the right choises with each 
 level on what perks you would like to choose etc.
  The story takes roughly 20 hours if i remember correctly then theirs sidequests etc but not as 
 many as you would have suspected.
  
  gameplay: the gameplay is exciting and challenging with tons of stuff to keep you entertained; gunplay 
 is well done and the VATS system is one of the best features of the game.
  
  graphics: very detailed enviorments and a excellent draw distance with good charachter models (in 
 my opinion) but nothing compared to Mass Effect. The wastlands of washinton DC look amazing but 
 the destroyed cities textures can somtimes look ugly upclose but you can forgive them.
  
  sound: voice acting is excellent and beter than oblivion and gunfire, mutant sounds and crazy outlanders 
 sceaming at you sounds amazing
  
  Value: its very entertaing for about 45 hours after that it will just become like oblivion looking 
 for all the caves you can etc. but it i still worth the price by far
  
  in the end fallout 3 is game you must pick up no matter who you are (even if you arent a rpg or 
 shooter fan) its very entertaining, suprising and funny. thank you or reading. please rate this review 
 as thumbs up if you found it usefull: D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cringle88
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 29, 2008 11:55 pm PT
Review:  Fallout 3 is a great open exploration rpg. The game is full of choices from the moment your born. 
 The game play is a little restricted till you get out of the vault off course but once you have 
 left the vault it captures you by surprise. 
  The map is dense with detail and the range of view is great. The point of impact system makes it 
 very fun to take down enemy's. Without you would find yourself constantly running out of ammunition,. 
 The monsters look a little budget but they fit in with the environment. Radiation poisoning is 
 an aspect of the game that sets the feel of an atomic wasteland but the fact that you cant mutate 
 in a ghoul is very disappointing. Overall its a great game with plenty of game play and is challenging 
 at times worth buying cause its a game you can come back to when you've finished the rest of your 
 games much like oblivion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: golamj
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 29, 2008 1:19 pm PT
Review:  Judging from the other reviews, I should fess up right now - I haven't played any of the other 
 games in the series, but that didn't keep me from enjoying this game overall.
  
  My only issues come from the story mode, which can leave the player hanging at times. The ending 
 was a little strange, where when you reach the end of the story, it's the end of the game for your 
 character and you can't get back out into the Capital Wasteland to complete the side missions.
 
  
  While you can't keep pushing along and leveling up, the game is strong enough that I had no problem 
 starting over from the beginning to blast my way through again.
  
  It's worth noting that being able to save whenever you'd like is a nice feature, too - you can 
 play around quite a bit and back up if you aren't pleased with the outcome of your actions.
  
  The game itself is a lot of fun and while you feel like some of the maps are a bit repetitive, 
 I never felt like the game was anything less than a great time.
  
  Be prepared for a lot of quality couch time - this game is totally addictive and is extra fun if 
 you've lived or worked in the DC area. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hacgame
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 29, 2008 11:31 am PT
Review:  I have less than 10 hours of play on this, but I am not disappointed so far. One thing I didn't 
 like about Oblivion that I like about this game is that with Fallout 3 you can take out some of 
 the citizen without having the whole town coming down on you or have to be that high of a level. 
 I like V. A. T. S. it give me a feeling of skill and precision instead of just hacking away or shooting 
 aimlessly. Even though Fallout 3 does it better than most. I wish there was more A. I. and options 
 when talking with the characters, it can get repetitive and inane. The blood and gore is gratifying 
 for us sick-O's. For those of us that don't have a lot of time leveling up and always getting waked 
 by mutants, talking to Pappy really helps to get things going. Thanks to the makers for leaving 
 this in there for us xp. wimps. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mac11_Fanboy
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 28, 2008 8:13 pm PT
Review:  I've been playing this game excessively since it came out, I've just (yesterday) made my 360 RRoD 
 through playing it, yay!
  
  I had massive hopes for this game and toyed with a pirate a friend had which confirmed my want 
 factor for it, its fun, the premium of ammo and health at the start really makes you need to fight 
 for survival, until you start stacking some P that is. The PIPBOY-3000 menu system is nice and 
 functional, i didn't like the green initially, not particularly legible, so i hit the options and 
 switched it over to blue, much better.... I think playing oblivion beforehand made this a bit easier 
 to get used to, I'll go on record as saying I like the layout of this more than Oblivion's Item/Quest 
 menu-age.
  
  The map is a decent size and while marauding there is plenty of stuff to discover, you'll more 
 than likely have a great time discovering it and eliminating those who discovered it first, since 
 no-one like you finding their discoveries do they? The level cap is sent to 20 which is just about 
 right as it gives you reason to specialize your character to how you would prefer to play the game, 
 if it was any higher then it would be plain silly, in ES4: O it took me ages to max my doods stats, 
 and i only did it for the unnecessary joy. So far, I've just been making one man armies and its 
 all good. My next playthrough will involve some smooth-talkin sword wieldin' super fast ninja man, 
 it's gonna be great.
  
  Should touch on perks i guess: mysterious stranger all the way.
  
  To be honest, the main questline is a bit short and the ending isn't what i had quite hoped 
 for, but the interim fun and the random things to get up (rigging elections etc..) is great. There 
 is plenty of choice in how to approach things as well. Unfortunately, the NPCs feel pretty inconsequential 
 and some you may kill not giving a f**k only to need them later. 
  
  The conversations are pretty bland between you and other characters, and the amount of things they 
 have to say to each other is really quite minimal, I don't know how many times I've heard the same 
 conversation all over the place in Rivet City. Another gripe, paying for the bed at moriarty's, 
 i thought I would get to see me bang the hooker, not her just get out of bed, lame. Sometimes the 
 AI is poor for conversations, if you stir up s**t between 2 characters and then follow one to have 
 it out with the other, you'll be a bit disappointed, but it's a minor, and for the amount that 
 goes on in this epic, you can forgive them a bit.
  
  Plenty of Armour, plenty of weapons, lets be honest you must of played it, my Chinese assault rifle 
 is the most win, then Lincolns repeater, then the scoped .44. Word of advice, buy all .44 magnum 
 rounds you come into contact with, the most important ammo in the game. Full stop (coz I'm English 
 :P) The manufactured weapons are great fun and give you more of an objective when out on the killing, 
 as you need to fetch certain parts, nuka-grenade being a personal.
  
  It's not perfect, but nothing is. Roll on the DLC but I'm just praying they aren't rushing it as 
 it's coming out so soon.. I'd sooner put it down for a while and get a more complete update but 
 hey, I don't make the rules. Ultimately, this game must be played by any gamer. Hope whoever reads 
 this enjoys my first review for the gamespot 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AGamerDiet
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 28, 2008 8:08 pm PT
Review:  I completed this game yesterday after playing it for well over 100 hours. It was much more fun 
 then I thought it would be and the graphics were nicer then I thought they would be. Still the 
 world was a bit on the oppressively hopeless side (as it was supposed to be given the setting) 
 and because of that I can't really say its one of my favorite games, nor can I say I am awaiting 
 the sequelthough I may pick up the DLC.
  
  Graphics: Better then I expected. Though the blood was a bit over the top, it wasn't as bad as 
 the videos. Its not that I don't like blood, I loved Gears 2 and you are swimming in blood in that 
 game it's the over the top all limbs popping off on a head shot that I didn't like from the videos. 
 Apparently thought that only happens if you have the bloody mess perk, which seemed kind of like 
 a useless perk to me. Mostly when I blew all the limbs off of someone it was because my guy was 
 an explosives expert. Plus a "sniper" so I was good with making heads explodes too I was fine 
 with both of those. Oh, got off track there. Graphics were fine, bleak, nothing to look at but 
 much of what was there looked appropriate and seemed fairly unique (except in vaults) .
  
  Sound Voice: I thought all the voice actors did a good job. Nothing really glaringly bad like some 
 of the choices for voices in Oblivion.
  
  Sound Music: Well, depends on if you have the radio on or off and what channel. The radio stuff 
 seemed appropriate for 1950s gone bad which I think was the point. With the radio off, it sounded 
 like the retread Oblivion stuff, which I wasn't really all that fond of to start with, so I will 
 take off points for this. Nothing REALLY annoying, but they could have gotten some different ambient 
 music other then the oblivion stuff.
  
  Gameplay. I thought the VATS worked really well. I liked that gameplay a lot. I liked the leveling 
 system. I thought the world seemed quite big with lots to explore and lots of unique items to find. 
 Playing outside of VATS did not work so well but was mostly unnecessary.
  
  Story: The main story is quite short. I am not quite sure how short but I remember only thinking 
 I was 3 or so missions in before I started wandering around the "Waste" doing side quest and random 
 encounters (note there are some cool side quest and random encounters) . When I decided to get back 
 to the main quest, it seemed like I only did 3-4 more missions. None were very long and the ones 
 near the end seemed to "push you" along to completion. Which is not a bad thing, those were some 
 of the cooler missions in the game and a sense of urgency was part of it. Unfortunately, once you 
 finish the game, it ends so you cannot explore afterward. I reloaded from a prior save and finished 
 some more side missions with my new followerwhich in itself made being a good person worth it. 
 I can't say I am fond of the type of "multiple ending" they implemented but it's a small matter. 
 
  
  Conclusion: I would recommend this game even at full price, but with a caveat. If you like this 
 type of game, if you can wander around and look for your own fun, I think you will definitely get 
 your moneys worth out of this game. If you are a linear gameplayer and only want to play the main-story 
 you may want to wait till the game gets cheap. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chaemmons
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 28, 2008 3:07 pm PT
Review:  don't get me wrong this game is a class A game, but im glad i didnt fork up sixty bucks for it 
 and just rented it, its set up like oblivion but comes nothing close to oblivion. for some people 
 this might be a good thing but it seems like the game is way too hard in many ways. the directional 
 and mapping system is abysmal compared to what oblivions was like, the map is horrible. 
  im not really far into the story but so far the story seems kinda drawn out and dull, but i havent 
 got through much of it so i might be taking that that one day. the combat system in my opinion 
 is very mediocre, sometimes i find it hard to aim on mobs, and sometimes the mobs are really difficult 
 to handle, even on very easy mode. the mobs can be overwhelming at some points. ammo seems to be 
 scarce at some points as do health kits. the quest system seems to be pretty confusing sometimes 
 i find it hard to find some of the quest. 
  also the autosave feature seems to be a little glitchy, sometimes i find it saving it really bad 
 spots and gets me stuck between a rock and a hard place.
  theres some other little things but other than that it seems like an overall decent game. it just 
 really doesnt hit the spot for me and i dont think it adds up the big review people are giving 
 it. 
  thanks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Engage28
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 28, 2008 10:02 am PT
Review:  There are some that believe Fallout 3 has only ruined the classical Fallout PC games. There are 
 some that feel the similarity to other Bethesda games (Oblivion) is far too apparent. There are 
 also those that realize that Fallout 3 is a masterpiece within the rpg genre. No other game has 
 done it quite like this.
  In the game, you become the son of a scientist that apparently abandons you as a child. After a 
 bit of fairly-involving customization of your new character, it becomes your initiative to exit 
 Vault 101 and enter an immersive quest to find him. 
  You will witness, even from the first hour, spectacular visuals that prove there is much to this 
 title. Being able to see miles ahead gives the awesome perception of a world undiscovered; a world 
 awaiting change. The game does not lead you places, unless you request it, and allows the player 
 to handle all situations and determine their own paths to take. This is simply what makes the game 
 fun, among many other things.
  The dialogue scheme sets you up to be able to answer or question others within the Wasteland with 
 a multitude of various choices. Each sequence of speaking to people, ghouls, mutants, and even 
 animals is enjoyable because the outcome is determined by your words and your actions.
  The combat system is amazing. Real time fighting and shooting can add up to advancement in experience 
 points which lead to leveling your character up. The most frequently used form of combat will be 
 the Vault-Tec Assisted Targeting System (VATS) . This allows the player to not only slow time, but 
 target specific body parts of an enemy, or even the weapon in their hands. The particular disappointing 
 feature within the game is the obvious level cap of 20. Once you reach this point, you may only 
 continue the game and complete quests, but experience points are non-existent at this point.
  The storyline is interesting enough to keep you playing for hours on end, and the characters you 
 will encounter differentiate from the typical family member, lost within the Wasteland, to the 
 human trapped within his own mutated skin. You will be shocked nearing the end of the game, for 
 better or worse. Once again, the course of the game is dependent on you, the player.
  Not to make this review seem rushed in any way, I would like to leave anyone reading this a simple 
 insight into the game, it would be best for you if I do so, in part because you will not experience 
 things with such excitement if I do. I truly believe this is one of the greatest games I have ever 
 had the opportunity to play. It is worth every dollar you will spend, and you will be happy you 
 did. Give Fallout 3 a chance, and you may find that you enjoy the devastation of a world torn apart 
 by war.. or radiation. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ryu_San
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 27, 2008 8:43 am PT
Review:  Have you ever felt lost in a videogame? That's a feeling you'll often get from "Fallout 3, 
 this sense of bewilderment on account of the scale and size of this vast, sprawling wasteland. 
 It's everywhere, it surrounds you, it needs you to explore it, to feed on its expansive horizon, 
 to delve into its bowels and actually *live* in that virtual space. It's the kind of suck-your-life-dry 
 environment you expect from a MMORPG, except it's in a single player game, so it's more of a Massive 
 Singleplayer Offline RPG. Coming from Bethesda, it's no surprise, as the "Elder Scrolls" series 
 has always attempted to deliver on the same kind of free-roaming, pseudo non-linear, vast world 
 experience. "Fallout" on the other hand, was much more focused and plot oriented, so it's kind 
 of awkward to see its world propelled into a vast metropolis of post apocalyptic settlements. A 
 Obsidian-based sequel would probably make more sense (since the main authors of "Fallout", Feargus 
 Urquhart and Chris Avellone are currently in that company) , but with time, you come to accept the 
 fact that "Fallout 3 is different from its predecessors, and despite many comments in that 
 sense, it's also different from the recent "Oblivion".
  
  The vast world dynamics are clearly ported from "Oblivion", with its heavy stat based character 
 development, its go-anywhere exploration and grab-all-you-can-get looting, but there's a striking 
 difference in "Fallout 3, one that changes the way you perceive the landscape: "Fallout's" 
 world is actually worth getting sucked into. Face it, "Oblivion" was a high-fantasy clich, a sum 
 of postcard vistas with an unhealthy amount of shallow fetch/kill/loot quests replicating all the 
 useless and worn-out motifs of mediocre fantasy videogames; it lacked the originality, substance 
 and proper writing that could create the sense of a breathing, living world. The only steady pillar 
 in its foundation was its lore, which took the form of hundreds of books, each meticulously describing 
 past events, myths, religious beliefs and legends. But it was painful to endure so much in-depth 
 reading, more so because a majority of these books spawned randomly with no proper in-game contextualization, 
 or even some semblance of a relationship with the actions you partake in the game and let's not 
 forget they weren't exactly Shakespeare material. This was the area where "Fallout" excelled, its 
 careful rendering of post apocalyptic USA was well written and aesthetically cohesive (albeit not 
 really that original) . Bethesda apparently sensed this, and used it in its behalf in "Fallout 3. 
 Now, their game-world feels real because it has a story to it, and a fine one at that. Every village, 
 settlement, tribe and character has their own little back story, which the game properly entices 
 you to discover through well designed quests; each of them sustained by a healthy dose of well 
 written plot exposure, in the shape of dialogues, log notes and use of the environment itself. 
 It's also a more focused experience than "Oblivion", relegating fetch quest nonsense to the background, 
 and properly fleshing out the more important locations and story-lines. Furthermore, there are 
 tons of subtext and satirical remarks beneath these apparently unrelated missions; with time, these 
 help shape the Wasteland not only as a physical space which you can explore, but also as a timeless, 
 allegorical reflection of modern USA and its excesses: consumerism, unilateral war, pseudo-democracy, 
 and glorified capitalism. The main storyline still is a letdown when compared to other modern RPG's 
 (and even the other "Fallout's") , but at least it has decent characters and drama, something completely 
 absent from Bethesda's previous games.
  
  The aesthetic has changed as well, as the derelict cityscape of the Wasteland has very little color 
 and shining flowers; it's post apocalyptic sci-fi heaven, with a twist of gory humor and art deco 
 flair. Sure, with time, the desert wasteland and destroyed city landscapes can become old, but 
 there are unique elements that always make "Fallout 3 stand out from other tiresome gritty 
 aesthetics. Previous "Fallout's" aesthetic themes, such as educational propaganda commercials, 
 mid twentieth century songs (delivered through in game radio stations) and Ron Perlman's cynic 
 narration (war war never changes) , all make a fortunate comeback. In some portions of the game, 
 "Fallout's" signature themes are stretched to the limit, in order to provide brilliant, over the 
 top settings; e. g. in one quest you're inside a 50's soap (don't ask) , complete with black and 
 white photography, chiaroscuro lighting, upbeat soundtrack and characters that seem straight out 
 of "Pleasantville". The only big letdown in the art department is Inon Zur's ("Fallout Tactics", 
 "Crysis") score, which despite one or two eerie tracks in honor of Mark Morgan's ("Fallout", "Fallout 
 2) original work, provides an unnecessary light fantasy feel, too much in the lines of Jeremy 
 Soule ("Oblivion") to make the Wasteland feel as dark, creepy and unsettling as it should be ("S. T. A. L. K. E. R.'s" 
 soundtrack would be perfect, by the way) .
  
  For all its drab colors, grim, dry aesthetic and rundown environments, "Fallout 3 manages 
 to feel lively and dynamic; there's always something happening out in the wasteland, and it's not 
 always about you. "Oblivion's" Radiant AI is to blame, as it shapes the Wasteland's citizen's behavior 
 in the world: characters walk, eat, work, sleep, talk (and fight!) with each other, all on their 
 own schedules and mostly impervious to your actions. And it's not scripted, it's dynamic, which 
 helps give these actions credibility and a sense of surprise. The voice acting was greatly improved, 
 as you no longer feel like you're listening to the same old man and woman making slight tonal variations 
 in every single character (out of hundreds) . Unfortunately, character's physical incarnations still 
 breakup the immersion with their clunky animations and poor facial expressions. For instance, when 
 talking, mouths move, but not the eyes or cheeks, nor even the rest of the body: the hands, the 
 arms, the torso are always stiff - it makes characters lifeless and robotic. These, of course, 
 provide an uncanny inconsistency with their expressive voice and generally intelligent behavior. 
 It's not hard to dismiss this flaw, as Bethesda added so much quality content into the "Oblivion" 
 framework in just 2 years but they really need to fix those horrid character animations.
  
  The game also responds to your actions, as you can now choose a moral standpoint to enact in 
 the world. It's a return of the karma mechanic, a straight good vs evil kind of deal, but for once, 
 the gameworld really responds to your choice, and not just in some generic ending sequence. Character's 
 perceptions change depending if you're good or evil, they might assist you by giving items or joining 
 your quest, then again, they might simply try to kill you for no other reason than being evil. 
 Some quests have specific alignments, and can even alter the Wasteland's geography, as you can 
 be a harbinger of destruction to certain settlements, or their savior against a nuclear attack. 
 It forces you to adapt certain quest-solving to the alignment you choose, and guarantees that the 
 game has to be experienced more than once to be fully appreciated.
  
  Like in "Oblivion", there are tons of small flaws and imperfections: silly inventory interfaces, 
 buggy physics and AI break the game once in a while, etc. The combat system's twist, the V. A. T. S. 
 system, which gives the FPS "light" action a turn-based "light" dynamic, makes combat speedier 
 and more tactic than the overlong hectic brawl of "Oblivion", which coupled with a classic experience 
 driven level up system, helps the game feel less of a grind in the long run. It's still repetitive 
 like any other massive RPG, but at least, it gives you a point to all of its aimless wandering, 
 as the world constantly repays your exploration with further understanding of the narrative context. 
 And there are so many good stories waiting there for your mind to explore, that you know that you'll 
 never fully grasp the immensity of this monster of a world. So, if you have the time how about 
 checking out how Washington DC would've become had Bush stayed in office a couple more years? Experience 
 the Future, Today! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wildamnesia
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 27, 2008 12:35 am PT
Review:  I've just finished the game and I have to admit I did feel a little disappointed. It's not as good 
 as Obilivon and I was hoping it would be. 
  
  The game does create the illusion of being huge but it really isn't. The main story is very short 
 and the ending caught me completely by suprise. There are quests and they are a lot fun to complete 
 but I was annoyed that one quest in particular (the survival guide researcher) did interfere with 
 the main story and I skipped ahead one chapter because I talked to a character I wasn't supposed 
 to talk to until later in the story.
  
  The graphics are great but wondering around a post apocolyptic landscape for hours at a time does 
 get very depressing. The sound is also excellent, especially the radio stations which add most 
 of the atmosphere to the game. It's still a mystery though why 2277 looks and sounds like the mid 
 1950's. A better option would've been to set the game IN the 1950's on a alternate timeline.
  
  Overall it's a great single player experience that you will play for hours at a time. But it 
 doesn't last long enough. Oblivion is still the best RPG for the Xbox 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rockerman235
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 26, 2008 9:35 pm PT
Review:  Fallout 3, where to being
  this game has been my life for the entire time it has been released. I don't exactly know how to 
 explain the expierence except for complete awesomeness. Just buy it. I know this is a short review 
 but seriously, just buy this game I promise you no matter who you are if you stick with this game 
 it will reward you. Its definitly worth the price. Fallout 3 is a great continuation of the series 
 even if it does take some liberities. 
  
  Pros
  
  -More Gameplay Hours per dollar
  
  -Easily fuses two elements, real time and turn based, and it actually works! The V. A. T. S. system 
 is a huge highlight
  
  -Same greatness from Oblivion choices, with better characer voice acting
  
  -Best R. P. G. in 
 a decade
  
  -Graphics from a grand scale view look absolutly amazing!
  
  -Downloadable content already in the process for realease this spring.
  
  Cons
  
  -Characters 
 can be stiff
  
  -Sometimes minor glitches in character graphics 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IcEdOktAInE
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 26, 2008 8:27 pm PT
Review:  I Just wanted to say a few things to those people who are writing reviews souly based on previous 
 games in the series.
  
  To all of you who are comparing F3 to F1 and 2 and sayin your not being biased is a straight up 
 lie. You are reviewing this game with a biased opinion. When writing a review its supposed to be 
 about the game you're reviewing not about a game that was made 10 years ago.
  
  Also, to those people who are more than likely thinking I'm new to this series. You're wrong.
 
  
  I loved the first two fallouts and thought they were incredible and yes were pretty similar to 
 their trademark open-endness but that does not make me like this game any less.
  
  All I ask is that the rest of you "hardcore OF fans" write a review on THIS game and leave your 
 bias to your mind.
  
  Review this game for this game.
  
  IcEdOktAInE XD 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AetherOblivion
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 26, 2008 10:57 am PT
Review:  After Oblivion, I had high expectations for this game. I went out and got it on the first day. 
 And was happy to see all the things it included. This game has many great things to offer. You 
 can have fun from taking off the heads of random wastelanders. Or saving the poor and the hungry. 
 Or maybe you would just like to find a nice high tower to watch a certain nuclear warhead explode. 
 Wander the (particularly well made) wastelands, fighting... well... whatever you want to fight. 
 This game is definitely worth the wait, more than worth the money, and worth the 4 years that Bethesda 
 put into this masterful piece of technology. One of the main games that I had been waiting for 
 to come out. And I was right to do so. If you don't already have this game. Than you are missing 
 out on a game just as memorable as Oblivion. This game offers freedom, power, and great unique 
 moments. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rafe01
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 26, 2008 2:52 am PT
Review:  ... go to a mall and buy this game right now...
  if your still reading my review u happen to be either broke or thinking about it...
  seriously 
 Fallout 3 gives u a whole different experience towards rpg games.
  I know mass effect was one of the first Rpg sci fi game but it wasn't really much of an rpg it 
 was most likely action adventure.
  So officially Fallout 3 is pretty much the first RPG sci fi game that includes GUNS!
  trust me 
 on this one this game is unique compared to all other rpg games.
  My first thoughts about this game was ... hmmm i wonder if this game actually good as oblivion...
 
  well since i have already finish the game and almost have all the achievements i have to say it 
 is good as oblivion!
  
  anyways go buy the game now i dont have anything else to say 
  except Fallout 3 is one of the best games that came out in 2008.
  If i had to choose between 
 oblivion or fallout 3 ... i would have to pick oblivion since im more into the medieval days type 
 of guy. 
  9.5/10 !!!!! EPIC! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: punisher71592
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 26, 2008 1:04 am PT
Review:  I first heard about this game at E3 08 and had been excited about it ever since. I went out and 
 bought the collector's edition the day it came out and couldn't be happier with it. The graphics 
 are great and the voice acting is pretty good overall. The storyline got me hooked right away however 
 i was always getting sidetracked with all of the side quests. The fact that you could create your 
 own weapons always left me searching every metal box, safe, and locker i could find. I love shooters 
 and most RPG and this game was a great combination of the two. There is a great assortment of weapons 
 and explosives in the game and when you combine those with all of the different PERKS and add in 
 VATS killing hundreds and hundreds of mutants is insanly entertaining and never gets old. The only 
 minor flaw i would say about the game is that when your traveling through the wasteland and can 
 get a little lonely and sometimes boring but when your caught up in the quests this is hardly noticeable 
 i just wish there were a few more enemies throughout the wasteland but if you havent already you 
 should definately buy this game, you won't regret it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BIOJECT
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 25, 2008 11:43 pm PT
Review:  This game improves in pretty much every area that Oblivion lacked. The stat system is no longer 
 broken and you won't find dirt poor hobos attacking you with glass armor. Best yet, the quests 
 are much more interesting than Oblivion's (Dark Brotherhood is exception) .
  
  If I merely look at this game by itself or compare it to Oblivion, Bethesda has really done a good 
 job at making a fun and immersive experience. Blowing people away with guns is a blast and the 
 VATS system in my opinion is a lot of fun and a decent compromise for people who wanted more of 
 a classic turn-based RPG feel. Best yet, exploring is actually super rewarding and there are lots 
 of hidden stuff to see. Players who just follow the main quest will be missing out on the best 
 parts of the game. This is why I have to give this game an 8 because it really is a good game and 
 I recommend its purchase.
  
  Unfortunately if I start comparing Fallout 3 to Fallout 1 or 2, the game really starts to break 
 down. By this point some may be saying that I'm just being a crazy biased Fallout fanboy. Give 
 me a second to explain and perhaps you may agree with me too.
  
  One of the charms of Fallout 1 and 2 was that you were given a single goal; such as find the water 
 chip or find the G. E. C. K. After giving players the mission, players could go ANYWHERE they wanted 
 if they knew what they were doing.
  
  Towns in Fallout 1 and 2 were handled in a modular way. In other words, every town typically had 
 a story that was unique to that town. Players who poked and proded were rewarded with experience, 
 items, and leads to the whereabouts of your main goal. The pro of this style was you had the opportunity 
 to experience many different mini-stories. The con was that there wasn't a completely linear, dramatic, 
 storyline that moved from beginning to finish. In fact oftentimes the main story was so broken 
 up by the pacing of the player, it almost seemed to not exist.
  
  Finally the last thing I wanted to say about Fallout 1 and 2 was that you could choose varying 
 extremes of good, evil, or neutral in terms of what you did during the game. The games would reward 
 you accordingly and when you finished Fallout 1 and 2, both would tell players the aftermath of 
 their exploits in all towns giving players a sense of overall accomplishment.
  
  In summary, Fallout 1 and 2, were open-ended games that allowed players to create a role of their 
 choosing and complete the entire game this way. Want to kick the president of the United States 
 in the balls? Sure, do it! Want to kill the final boss by throwing a well aimed rock? Go right 
 ahead! Want to betray humanity by selling out to the leader of the mutants and watch a badass FMV 
 of the Overseer in vault 13 getting overtaken by an army of mutants? Yep you can do it! Don't feel 
 like finding that water chip? Go back to vault 13 and kill everyone. Ultimately the choices are 
 up to the player, which is why the games where fun.
  
  This is where I now get into the problems of Fallout 3. Bethesda had two great ideas that sound 
 good on paper, but offer huge sacrifices. First, they wanted a large linear storyline that was 
 dramatic and meaningful and second they wanted as much immersion as possible. 
  
  Problems arise when players ask themselves, "what if I don't want to help my Father? What if I 
 want to do the exact opposite of what the storyline wants?" What Bethesda thought was a good idea, 
 turns out to be a bad idea because now all of the open-ended gameplay that was a trademark of the 
 Fallout series becomes all too linear.
  
  Many times throughout the game, I encountered situations where I couldn't do something because 
 the story wasn't ready for me to do it. In effect, Fallout 3 acts like it's an open-ended game, 
 when in reality it's much more linear than people think. Yes you can walk off and go anywhere you 
 want, but you still can't enter specific areas deemed "necessary for the plot." Worse yet, far 
 too many characters are given invincible status until their importance for the story has been completed. 
 Often I felt like I a child being led around by Bethesda's phantom hand. Things really start to 
 hit home when you enter a town of only children. Since you can't kill children in the game, you 
 can't do anything but follow the stupid quests the game forces you to complete. 
  
  As far as immersion goes, I consider voice acting to be one of those immersion choices that actually 
 hurts games rather than helps them. Why? When it is decided to dub every single piece of dialogue 
 in a game, it is no longer as simple as just entering text into a computer. Now you have to go 
 through the trouble of hired someone to voice act. As a result, you get less dialogue choices. 
 
  
  This is purely an assumption with no factual basis, but in Fallout 1 and 2, if you had low intelligence, 
 your character would talk like an idiot and everyone in the game would respond very differently. 
 If Fallout 3 were to do this, they would need to have voice actors basically redub the entire game 
 for all the new dialogue which takes more time and money. This is why I think they decided not 
 to have intelligence affect dialogue options as much as it used to in past games.
  
  Some of you may be saying "Well voice acting is really nice!" Truth is, how many people actually 
 sit through and listen to all the dialogue anyway after you've played through once? Usually I find 
 myself skipping the dub if I finish reading the subtitles before the voices finish. Basically voice 
 acting in games is merely icing on a cake. It's not as necessary as people think.
  
  In conclusion, Bethesda has created a decent game if not compared to Fallout 1 and 2. If it is 
 compared, Fallout 3 lacks the open-ended gameplay the originals had. The truth is that Bethesda 
 sacrificed player choice with a story they thought was good. In effect, players are shoehorned 
 into a story they may not even care about and are ultimately forced to make a really lame decision 
 at the end of the game. If this were a true Fallout 3, players would have been able to join enemy 
 factions and kill their Father for no justifiable reason.
  
  I still stand by my score, but to give others perspective, I think Fallout 3 deserves a 5 if compared 
 exclusively to its predecessors. 
  
  With the advanced gaming technology we have today, there is no excuse to make a game less open-ended 
 then a game that was made in 1998.
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jason4774
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 25, 2008 11:34 pm PT
Review:  I've got mixed feelings about Bethesda. Despite the near laughable combat in Morrowind, I could 
 not put that game down. As a world to explore, it completely and wholly absorbed me, playing it 
 for an entire summer, and to this day, I regret not a second I spent playing it.
  
  By contrast, Oblivion left me limp. While technically more impressive, and despite revisions to 
 combat, the world seemed less compelling, and I noticed a tendency to force myself to completion, 
 just so I could give it a fair shake, then be done with it. Perhaps it was the mind numbingly repititious 
 Oblivion gates that all looked and played the same, but took forever to complete. Perhaps the landscape, 
 while graphically enhanced, seemed lifeless and lacking in atmosphere... I don't know.
  
  But, when Fallout 3 came out, I feared more of the same and passed.
  
  But, fate stepped in, 
 by the guise of my local 7-11. I went to buy a pack of smokes, and saw that they were selling Fallout 
 3, and thought "Well, I played Fable 2... it can't be any worse." So, I told the clerk to toss it 
 in, and with my nachos and menthols, Fallout 3 came home with me.
  
  One area Bethesda often drops the ball, I find, is in their opening presentation. Outside of an 
 awkward "stepping in of fate" like intro, the game just seems to dump you into a landscape like 
 a cabbie who just found out you can't pay the fare, and say "best of luck buddy."
  
  Fallout 3 offers the best opening of a Bethesda game to date. From second go, it tosses you into 
 the plot, dripping in placenta, and piece by growing piece, your character, the world around you, 
 and the story come into sharp focus. And, every second of the opening is utterly engaging.
  
  Eventually, as with most Bethesda games, you end up in a new city, and become overwhelmed with 
 a whole lot to do, and very little idea on where to go or how to do it. It's a big world, and while 
 not quite as big as their previous ones... the world of Fallout 3 feels desolate, and I men that 
 in the best way possible. It's barren, it seems terrifying, and devoid of hope.
  
  Once I did a couple of quests just to gain my bearings, I set out along the main quest, and that's 
 where the real magic of the landscape happens. While the game is littered with barren landscape 
 and desolation, once you get to the Capital, and you see the Washington Monument, scavage through 
 the Jefferson Memorial gift shop, sneak through the dark of the subway tunnels, the combination 
 of intense danger mixed with some of the most familiar landmarks in American history, make the 
 atmosphere deep, intense, and completely absorbing.
  
  I found myself breaking off the main quest... not because I lost interest, but because I wanted 
 to see EVERYTHING put into this game. I entered every possible building I could that had a door 
 to open, just to see what was inside. I talked to every NPC I passed, trying to figure out if there 
 was a story behind them. That was when I realized that wonderful feeling I hadn't uncovered since 
 playing Morrowind... I was completely immersed in this game!
  
  And, as cited before, while the world of Fallout 3 was no where near as large as Morrowind, the 
 atmosphere was charged with far more intensity. Combat, which has often been the punch line to 
 a bad joke in Bethesda games to me, was handled FAR better than any game they have released to 
 date. 
  
  Also, the game LOOKED better than any game they have released. And, I don't mean graphically (in 
 which the game is no slouch) , I mean visually. Oblivion, by comparison, looks clunky compared to 
 Fallout 3. It's polished very well, better than any game they have realeaed. Okay, maybe the super 
 mutants begin to look a little absurd after you fight them for the umpteenth time, but mostly, 
 people look and act largely like people. Monsters look, well, believable.
  
  And, while I touch on reptition a bit, let's get to that point in every Bethesda game where it 
 wouldn't be a Bethesda game unless it had some of this... repitition. Some environments, interiors 
 specifically, begin to look alot the same after a while. Alot of buildings have a familiar floorplan. 
 Subways are even worse, having a layout that makes it hard to distinguish one from another after 
 a while. Both Morrowind and Oblivion suffered from this, and it'd be foolish to think Fallout 3 
 could escape this fate completely.
  
  Also, combat has a sort of clunkiness to it... but only sometimes. Most of the time, combat is completely 
 fulfilling. Most of that can be attributed to two things that are a first for Bethesda... VATS and 
 stuff that blows up. Laying traps of mines for monsters and watching slow motion fatalities of 
 their limbs flying off their once solid bodies is as satisfying as it is viciously graphic. But, 
 every once in a while, you run out of AP, and catch yourself circle stafing an ant while wildly 
 swinging a baseball bat, and for that little sliver of time, memories of Oblivion and Morrowind 
 come to mind, as you swing at thin air because your crosshair was off by a fraction of an inch.
 
  
  And, honestly... how hard is it to make a system to give commands to party members to do what you 
 want them to? Really, if Mass Effect could do it... but I digress.
  
  But, these criticisms are small, and did little to deter me from the game. In fact, the fact that 
 the game had so few potholes along it's path of complete and utter immersion was a complete surprise 
 to me. It's shown how much Bethesda has grown as a developer, and how much reverence they had for 
 this project. The world of Fallout 3 is as immersive and complete as any they have ever created, 
 and they managed to improve on every weakness their past efforts have had, namely combat and focus. 
 This game has a sharper focus than any game Bethesda has ever made. Morrowind seemed to take a 
 lifetime to really "get into", and Oblivion shoved a plot down your throat so fast, but seemed 
 to forget to give you a compelling reason to follow it.
  
  Fallout 3 always has it's eye on the ball, never losing it's focus, even in the mind boggling array 
 of sidequests and terrain, offering up an experience that is engaging, intense, rewarding, and 
 most importantly, a world that rewarded my time spent playing greater than any game in recent memory. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ezikiel2517
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 25, 2008 7:47 pm PT
Review:  Well very few games have kept me glued to the TV like this one. I literally became sick playing 
 this game I played it so much one day.
  
  I must admit the first hour I didn't think this game was my cup of tea, I couldn't really get into 
 it and was wondering when the action was going to start, but let me tell you that this game is 
 an acquired taste and then some!
  
  The story is top notch and the enormous amount of scenarios and ways to do things will make your 
 head spin. The ruins of D. C. are absolutely huge and will take you forever to explore, the characters 
 are all unique as well as the weapons and the graphics are gorgeous. This is the only game I couldn't 
 put down until I got every achievement.
  
  My only complaints with it would be it did crash and freeze more than I would like, although this 
 may be my XBOX and not the game. The map system I found to be quite useless, too many times I found 
 myself lost in the vast buildings or caverns because I couldn't make sense of the map to find my 
 way out again.
  
  Pros:
  -Game is HUGE
  -Graphics are awesome
  -Story is engaging
  -Seemingly infinite ways to do things
  -Blowing people apart with VATS is a blast!
  
  Cons:
 
  -Lousy map system
  -Freezing and crashing 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Red_God01
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 25, 2008 5:50 pm PT
Review:  Right from the beginning you feel as you are actually the character, you feel as if you are born, 
 you feel as if you are growing up, and you feel the sorrow at the ending of the game. This game 
 has revolutionized rpgs, it makes first person shooting work. Don't like that, try vats pick and 
 aim your shots, or plot out the next strategic manuever, or just take a breath from combat. You 
 don't like someone pop out a shotgun and take their head off. This game is majorly open ended with 
 many possibilities. Even after you beat you still have many long sidequests to go or you can wait 
 for dlc. This game is the best ive played in my life. This is a true sequel to Fallout and don't 
 forget it, many characters are revisualized in this new 3d world dogmeat, harold, the enclave, the 
 brotherhood all done exellent. All of this content is worth so much more then the 60 dollar price 
 tag. The only problems are some times textures screw up for a second before it reloads into amazing 
 graphics 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shadowsaint13
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 25, 2008 4:02 pm PT
Review:  So I finally got my hands on this gem!!! (Thanks to Knightangel121) First thing I would really like 
 to say is that if you liked Oblivion you will shurly like this game. Imagine Oblivion with guns 
 mutants and all he nucear warfare you could ask for! The game starts you of as a baby being born 
 and then quickly throws you into charcter design! The problem I had picking how I looked lets face 
 it the charcter faces and designs are horrible!! The story is kinda basic but still very good following 
 your father and him keeping secrets from you no big surprise or wow but overall a ok story. The 
 guns are very cool to the AK 47 to laser rifles and so on I really liked how they kept the old 
 school style with the game but yet its in the future the V. A. T. S are very cool and i very much 
 found it fun to blow mutants heads off and arms and legs. Very cool how you can also go into v. a. t. s 
 with melee weopons also. The camara is ok but going into third person is just awfull the only time 
 i would use it is to check if a enemy is around the corner. The traveling was fun but i got pissed 
 going threw the metro stations its like WTF wasnt i just here???? The sound is very much like Bioshock 
 old music just adds to the broken down depressing enviroment the game places you in. Overall the 
 game is worth checking out i recomend renting borrowing before you decide other wise the game is 
 a Gem eny gamer would like to put on there shelf 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yeldarb1
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 25, 2008 2:37 pm PT
Review:  Review
  Fallout 3 (360 Version)
  
  The year is 2277. You are a resident of Vault 101, an underground "fallout" shelter near Washington 
 D. C. After spending your first nineteen years in the relative safety of this Vault, you are basically 
 "forced to escape" out into the post apocalyptic radioactive wasteland of the D. C. area in the 
 hopes of finding your recently missing father. This search leads you on an epic adventure that 
 immerses you into this devastated yet beautifully rendered landscape. This game is all about exploration 
 and choice. Choosing what kind of person you will be. Choosing how to complete the main quest and 
 the many side quests. Choosing where to go and where to explore. Choosing how to interact with 
 the world, the factions, and the individuals in it.
  Like "Oblivion," the map is very nonlinear and open ended. Not Like "Oblivion," the enemies and 
 loot don't level up with your character, so beware of adventuring into hostile territory you're 
 not ready for. Three other improvements include better/deeper dialogue with NPCs; the introduction 
 of VATS; and the way in which your character levels up. VATS is a pauseable strategic combat system 
 that allows players to target the various body parts on enemy characters. This can be used to cripple/disarm/decapitate 
 enemies. It is a hybrid updated version of the turn based action point system used in the Old PC 
 Fallout Games. Its optional, (you can target like a regular FPS game) but VATS not only enhances 
 the game strategically, but also visually by showing slow mo cinematic kills and injuries. While 
 being born, you customize the look of your character when he/she grows up. Then as an infant, you 
 choose how many points to allocate in each "S. P. E. C. I. A. L" ability. After each experience gain 
 in level, your character selects one among several beneficial "perks" and also allocates points 
 in the various skills. Character customization is all up to you.
  A few minor hiccups, but other than that the game ran smoothly. My character did get stuck in tight 
 spots a couple of times. I couldn't move out from the spot, so I had to reload from the last save. 
 Also, if I took a tricky route, sometimes my sidekick had difficulty following my path. The enemy 
 AI were extremely aggressive, which made them quite dumb. They would come get you, aimlessly running 
 over your laid mines. Many times you could just wait around a corner, then they would appear and 
 you could just blow their head off using VATS. However, the enemy were many and they were terrific 
 shots. A lowly raider could deal the damage with a missile launcher. So, it was wise to take cover 
 and take out that weapon as soon as possible. Please note that I played on normal difficulty. And 
 as in most RPG games, there were way too many items and containers in the world. I have never understood 
 how a character could carry so much without a pack mule. The ending puzzled me as well. My radioactive 
 resistant sidekick refused to help me in the final moment. So, I took it on the chin for dad and 
 humanity.
  Henpecking aside, the main story line is engaging and interesting. The side quests are abundant 
 and lengthy (good thing) . Choices and decision making run rampant. And the freedom this game offers 
 for adventure and exploration is unmatched. Most importantly this game succeeds in immersing you 
 into this radiated wasteland. You will be captivated and spend hours on end. I played for 71 hours 
 and was sorry to see it end. Fallout 3 is a must have for any role playing fan and should by tried 
 by every gamer. It's the holidays and I'm excited about several games. But, I will be back for 
 another lengthier play through, guaranteed. There are so many more mysteries to solve, areas to 
 explore, and super mutants to decapitate. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: pastree
Rating: 1
Date: Nov 25, 2008 8:50 am PT
Review:  If you're a fan of Oblivion, wait for Oblivion 2... maybe someday. If you're a fan of RPGs, get 
 Fable 2. If you're a fan of blood and gore, get Gears of War 2. This game does not deserve the 
 ration of 9.0, thats bull all the way. Its not even close to Gears, thats for sure. It plays boring, 
 the storyline is intriguing, but there is no sense of "I need to beat the game", its aimless. I 
 recommend a rental or try a friends copy before you spend the big bones on this thing. Its certainly 
 not all its cracked up to be. Ok, what's the deal with weapons being in horrible condition all 
 the time? how am I supposed to make a large amount of "caps", that is the in game $? maybe its 
 cuz i'm playing the game on hard, but seriously people, its still a snoozer. The combat system 
 is decent, the freeze time shooter meets turn-based rpg is pretty unique to the game. Dialogue, 
 pretty good too. but a sense of urgency, a drive to play the game, a motivation to save mankind- 
 not there! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheGhettoDT
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 25, 2008 6:01 am PT
Review:  Gameplay
  The 1st thing you might realize in Fallout 3 is that it feels kinda like Oblivion with guns, which 
 IMO is true except their ain't as many non-hostile NPCs and side quests.
  The game has FPS and TPS view the FPS is more fun and accurate with guns but if your in stealth 
 TPS can be good for looking over corners and over cover and stuff
  You are able to use melee weapons and guns but i think most people will prefer guns. The guns are 
 rifles, pistols, assault rifles, and a few heavy weapons. The melee weapons are baseball bats, 
 police batons, knifes and a bunch of other stuff but i couldn't care less about all that..... The 
 VATS targeting is unbelievably awesome, you can target an enemys limb and literally blow em off 
 which looks awesome when the blood sprays everywhere (which is pretty unrealistic and badly detailed) 
 makes you feel invincible and cool =) .
  For the players with a lil more sense then just "mindless violence" and levelling up, you might 
 find just talking to all the NPCs and try finding some side quests and finding out what they think 
 about whateva a lil fun.... a break from all that bloody violence and killing.
  Just like all other regular RPGs if you gain enough expeirience points you will level up and you 
 will be able to assign some points to the many skills that are availible and choose 1 perk each 
 level up.
  You are able to loot and sell just about everything for a high or small price depending on what 
 you're selling. And the merchant NPCs have a limit of what they can buy so selling alot of stuff 
 can be a pain sometimes but IMO i think that makes the game more challenging and fun.
  And keep in mind, when i say the game is so much better without the spoilers of Flash Maps, walkthroughs, 
 forum discussions etc it is better, alot better.
  And as always the best time to play any game is the 1st time.
  
  Plot
  After your father 
 escapes the vault 101 the vaults authorities are after you and you are forced to escape and find 
 your father. After you find him you find that he left you in the vault without saying anything 
 in order to continue the project he abandoned after your mother died and you were born which is 
 called "Project Purity" which can purify all of the wastelands water.
  Oh and if you didn't know the game is set in Washington DC 2227 or something and a post-apocalyptic 
 war has been raging on for 250 years or somethng and everything is ruins and wastelands and their 
 are few non-hostile settlements left in the wastelands. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jenova-Witness
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 25, 2008 4:09 am PT
Review:  Fallout 3... Bethesda's newest Behemoth. This one's definitely near the top of my list of fave 
 games this year! After beating the game and now currently giving it a second run through for the 
 neutral and evil achievements I have to ask myself... (Its been asked before and I'm gonna ask it 
 again) . Was this as good as Oblivion? In my humble opinion... not quite. Don't get me wrong... 
 its not because the game wasn't as well made as Oblivion or because the battle system was a bit 
 different than what we're all used to (lets face it... we fear change... especially when something 
 is tried, tested and true) . 
  
  I just didn't feel as... oh what's the word... immersed in the game as i did in Oblivion. I felt 
 like iI didn't care as much. I also felt like this time around Bethesda wanted me to play the game 
 through multiple times rather than play through once and achieve everything with one character... 
 Why didn't I care as much about my character in Fallout 3 as I did in Oblivion? Why did i feel 
 like Bethesda wanted me to play through more than once?
  
  First - the level cap.
  
  Why oh why would they level cap us at 20???
  The one thing I loved about Oblivion, one of the 
 main reasons why I CARE about my character more... is because whenever I sit down to play it, I 
 get a sense of accomplishment each and every time. There was always some way to improve upon my 
 character, whether it be more experience, better equipment or that new spell i was waiting to get 
 when my magic skill was high enough. I was fun! It drew me in.
  After reaching level 20 in Fallout 3 I lost A LOT of desire to try as hard. Even though there were 
 more sights to see and side quests to do, it didn't feel the game was as satisfying. I found myself 
 rushing through buildings and side quests to get the achievements without taking the time to explore 
 each room to see if there was another baddy that would add to my growing experience points. 
  
  Second - The fact that some areas in Fallout 3 are only accessible once and then you can never 
 return there again. 
  
  That's pretty lame by itself, but when you add the fact that there was an important, hard to find 
 item (aka bobble-head) within the one-time-only area, it can be frustrating to say the least if 
 you missed it like I did - D'oh! Guess I'll put bobble-heads on my to-do list for the second play 
 through!
  
  Third - The achievements for reaching different levels with different karma. I think this one's 
 a no-brainer. 
  
  I just feel like Bethesda wanted me to play this game through multiple times instead of one continuous 
 game where I can continue to improve my character (a-la Oblivion) . I felt like I couldn't achieve 
 everything in one play through with my character (that I spent a lot of time scouring the wasteland 
 to beef up and get the best most bad-ass armor!) 
  
  All in all I thought this was an awesome game. The guys at Bethesda are geniuses. Graphics, music, 
 story... all incredible. Even though I wish I could've done everything in the game in one continuos 
 play through with no level 20 cap, I will be gladly playing through this a second and probably 
 a third time.
  
  I'm not sure if anyone else has noticed that Bethesda has tired a little harder this time to create 
 more of a replay value. I just hope they realize that Oblivion didn't have replay value... it has 
 CONTINUOS play value. In my opinion more satisfying!
  
  Cheers!
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zach68486
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 25, 2008 12:54 am PT
Review:  Fallout 3. Many people anticipated it, and many people were skeptical of it. Myself, I thought 
 it looked good from the trailers and previews... but I wasn't psyched for it. So one day, I see 
 a video about it on YouTube. I knew from that moment that I had to play this game.
  
  Fallout 3 is set in the post-apocalyptic Capital Wasteland. Your character, a Vault 101 resident, 
 escapes from the Vault and finds that the world outside truly isn't a nice place. You go on a massive 
 adventure to find your father, and do plenty of side-quests and exploring along the way. I'll keep 
 it brief to not spoil anything.
  
  So, now that I have that out of the way, lets talk about the core parts of the game.
  
  First 
 of all, from the moment that you're in the Wasteland, you are immersed. It's a grim and hopeless 
 place, desolate and empty. Destroyed houses, wrecked cars, abandoned buildings, and collapsed bridges 
 are all a reminder of the society that existed before the war. You'll find cities such as Megaton, 
 and see what great lengths humankind will go to survive. It's all a very eye-opening experience 
 at life in a nuclear wasteland.
  
  Fallout 3 is all about survival. Sometimes you'll be limping along a road, on your last legs, crippled 
 and low on health... and you'll get ambushed by raiders and most likely die. Before you go into 
 a place, you'll have to make sure that you are prepared to fight off whatever you may find... because 
 you never know. And that's what I love about this game. You think in terms of survival, rather 
 then achieving something, you just want to survive. And that's exactly how a game like this, should 
 be.
  
  The graphics in Fallout 3 are crisp and beautiful. Pop-ins are rare, and the frame-rate will occasionally 
 drop when entering a new area, but with such a massive and detailed world, that is to be expected. 
 The visual effects, as well as the scenery, actively convey the feeling of the desolate wasteland.
 
  
  The musical score is amazing aswell. The game contains various songs from the '40s and '50s era, 
 and they are all great. Just wandering down a lonely road, all the destroyed and empty scenery 
 around you, while listening to 'Happy Times' by Bob Crosby is enough to send shivers down your 
 spine. Also, the game has a great score of ambient music. The kind of music that sets the mood.
 
  
  The scenery, graphics, music and sound effects all come together to compile an overwhelming atmospheric 
 effect that won't disappoint.
  
  Fallout 3 has something for every gamer. Great RPG elements, along with great FPS elements are 
 combined to create a truly unique experience. Contrary to popular belief, the VATS system is NOT 
 an unstoppable killing machine. Frequently, you will miss. 
  
  On the topic of the VATS system, I love it. It's cinematic feel, the rush that goes through you 
 as you watch a Raider's head explode in a shower of gore and chunks of brain matter... it's amazing, 
 and visceral.
  
  And as the icing on the cake, Fallout 3 is loaded with replay value. I can see myself playing the 
 game for a very long time... exploring, doing side-quests, and even replaying it to create different 
 characters and choose different moral choices to see the effects. It's awesome.
  
  Fallout 3 is easily one of the best games of the year, and it will not disappoint. I very highly 
 recommend it. It's a game that can immerse you and manipulate your emotions, and you can easily 
 lose yourself in this game. Prepare to play for many hours, because it will suck you in. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Velocir3x
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 24, 2008 4:45 pm PT
Review:  If you are a fan of oblivion then this game is a godsend for you. It has the same feel and is just 
 amazing. If you didn't like oblivion this game offers many differences most notably guns but it 
 also offers spectacular visuals and fantastic gameplay. It has an interesting approach to your 
 character; depending on you actions throughout the game your character is liked and disliked by 
 different groups of people and while it affects the game's course if you are really evil or good 
 you can still do most of the game. Throughout the quests there are many choices to make so the 
 replayability value is priceless. The weapon arsenal you can accumulate is widely varied with interesting 
 weapons and they are all lots of fun. Collectibles are widespread throughout the very large game 
 map but offer effective stat increases when you find them. Friends can be made and join you in 
 whatever your goals are and of course the most beneficial partner in any battle your very own viciously 
 helpful Dogmeat! Overall this game offers a great evolving rpg, plenty of action and a high fun 
 factor. This is a must have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RaistlinMajere8
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 24, 2008 4:21 pm PT
Review:  okay so where to begin. truly another great bethesda masterpiece. walking out of vault 101 the 
 seemingly endless wasteland sprawls before you. reminds me a lot of when you first came out of 
 the sewers oblivion and you just see this massive world sprawling out before you. very solid game 
 fallout 3. from the music to the dark sewers, everything is enjoyable and fun to do. the graphics 
 are amazing, except they could've done a little more work on the third person view. tis a bit clunky 
 and hard to do combat. but v. a. t. s is just a bloody gorey eye ball splatter good ol' fun. and the 
 thing that gets me is that this game limits you. it forces you to make decisions on how your character 
 is created and how you can maximize his/her effeectivness in only 20 lvls. that is the great part. 
 some people complain about it but being a god like character and having everything maxed out is 
 just bland. so yea great game. sooooooo many options. i've already put in 50 hrs and only beat 
 it once. so have fun. and stay safe out there children!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: j2theboogy
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 24, 2008 2:48 pm PT
Review:  Graphics: Definitely one of the better looking games on the XBOX 360. Some of the textures are 
 bland, but the majority of the environments are expansive and awe-inspiring.
  
  Gameplay: V. A. T. S is fun, you do however get a little too powerful towards the end. The character 
 creation and leveling system allow you to play truly different characters by forcing you to choose 
 perks and skill points carefully. A lot of reasons to explore and many quests to finish.
  
  Sound: Nothing to crazy, but not horrible. A lot of the voices are used over and over again.
 
  
  There is a ton of replayability and a ton of stuff to do. The quests are varied enough between 
 good and evil that it encourages you to play multiple times. The ending is kind of lame, but overall 
 it's one of the best games to come out this year. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SSBFan12
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 24, 2008 2:44 pm PT
Review:  In this game you can create your character and what you want to look like. You first start out 
 in your home called Vault 101. You are a kid for a few minutes then it skips through out your life 
 time and before you know it you will be outside with a gun. When you are outside you can see that 
 everything is deserted and not that much trees or buildings are around. You can start off by doing 
 anything you want by traveling, looking for new territories, killing enemies, looking for items 
 and equipment, or you can do the story or side quests. The game has alot to offer because there 
 are alot of things you can discover and you can enjoy. The game is not the best with shooting because 
 when you fire at an enemie during combat you can miss and it is terrible. The graphics are amazing. 
 Exploring a big world is fun and you can find alot of items and equipments. I think this game though 
 should have more action in it instead of nothing when you explore the world. The weapons that you 
 get can help you in the game espicially the frag grenades. The game has some really strange characters 
 in it. I think this game is really good and amazing for people who likes open world games and RPGs.
 
  
  The good of the game is that the graphics are fun. The world is huge. You can find cool items and 
 equipment.
  
  The bad of the game it is a little glitchy. Combat is terrible to use.
  
  Overall this game is good for people who likes RPGs and likes open world games. I don't think this 
 game is a game for a first person shooter fan. I rate this game 9.0 outta 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KingNi2
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 24, 2008 7:57 am PT
Review:  One of the best games Ive ever played! One of the best games Ive ever played! One of the best games 
 Ive ever played! One of the best games Ive ever played! One of the best games Ive ever played! 
 One of the best games Ive ever played! One of the best games Ive ever played! One of the best games 
 Ive ever played! One of the best games Ive ever played! One of the best games Ive ever played! 
 One of the best games Ive ever played! One of the best games Ive ever played! One of the best games 
 Ive ever played! One of the best games Ive ever played! One of the best games Ive ever played! 
 One of the best games Ive ever played! One of the best games Ive ever played! One of the best games 
 Ive ever played! One of the best games Ive ever played! One of the best games Ive ever played! 
 One of the best games Ive ever played! One of the best games Ive ever played! One of the best games 
 Ive ever played! One of the best games Ive ever played! One of the best games Ive ever played! 
 One of the best games Ive ever played! One of the best games Ive ever played! One of the best games 
 Ive ever played! One of the best games Ive ever played! One of the best games Ive ever played! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jimmygee123
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 23, 2008 9:30 pm PT
Review:  I commited a faux pas earlier last week. I got rid of fallout 3 for tomb raider. I know, I know. 
 
  
  Fortunatley I have since rectified that mistake and got fallout 3 back.
  I loved the freedom you get in this game. The go anywhere do anything attitude is what people enjoy. 
 
  
  Im finding it very hard to find fault with this game. The scenery was great the voices and radio 
 was all good. The fact that enemies respawned was quite realistic which shows that even though 
 you had left an area it was quite reasonable to expect more raiders and such. which in my opinion 
 we could have done with a lot more of.
  
  The weapons were just right for me too. some of the perks were a bit hard to follow. the only bad 
 thing I would have to say was that the camera was sometimes clunky and the V. A. T. S system was a 
 bit off the fact that you could be standing right in front of someone and shoot and completley 
 miss.
  
  I just wonder if there will now be a fallout series (fallout 4-5 etc) I kinda hope there is like 
 they did with GTA moving to different states or something.
  
  Good job Bethesda keep up the good work. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RalphWiggum1
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 23, 2008 2:40 pm PT
Review:  I would recommend this game to anyone who has an xbox 360. But this game is not ment for all ages 
 it is a very gorey and bloody game it is NOT MENT FOR CHILDREN.... I hate it when parents complain 
 that their kids are playing violent games when they bought it for them... THis game is ment for 
 mature players, but back to the review. It is extremly well done you can spend dozens of hours 
 just exploring the wastelands and admiring the desolate wastelands, every detail is put into this 
 game and it is a truly amazing game. The quests are fun sometimes there long and hard sometimes 
 their not. You can be good or evil and it will change the game completey. this game is bloody violent 
 funny amazing. This game has replay value through the roof i would play this game several times 
 just so i could explore everything. This game is worth exploring every little inch of its atmosphere 
 this game is definitly a 360 must buy. I would consider this game for Game of the Year 2008. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Delro333
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 23, 2008 7:18 am PT
Review:  Fallout 3 is Bethesda Softworks new RPG out this year. Their superb techniques for crafting RPG's 
 comes through in Fallout as it did in the Elder Scrolls: Oblivian. Some will say that its similar 
 to Oblivian, but is so many ways its not.
  
  The Story in Fallout is solid, but short. You play a (from birth) character from Vault 101. Whose 
 dad is bent on trying to save the wasteland through his "Project Purity." He leaves the Vault one 
 day when you are around 19 years old and you have to venture after him and uncover the truth behind 
 the Vaults/Wasteland. Its all a very compelling story to find your father and help save the post-nuclear 
 apocalyptic land. Just when the main storyline picks up you'll find that its practically already 
 over. It probably takes under 7 hours to complete it. In my game, I completed over half the side-quests 
 and the main story line and I still didnt reach level 20 for my character. So you really have to 
 spend time aimlessly searching the land.
  Side quests are long, very long. Their all pretty interesting for example, you'll find yourself 
 capturing slaves, blowing up a city, finding a land made up of all children, its all great. But 
 the same formula pops up on all the quests, go to point A then do something then back to point 
 B. The map in Fallout is the most useless peice of junk ever made. I spent hours in metro tunnels, 
 which you will soon learn are your worst enemy, but are necessary for travel, lost and unable to 
 get to my objective. Its a real pain in the @$$ after a while.
  
  Combat is one of Fallout's best attributes. Its not a FPS, so dont try to play it like one or you'll 
 find yourself getting raped in many of the battles. It uses a system of V. A. T. S which basically 
 stops the game and lets you select what body part you wish to target. Then sit back and watch the 
 slow-mo carnage begin. Heads will blow off, legs crumble, arms shatter, and guns will fly out of 
 your enemies hands. It NEVER gets old. The weapon variety is great, however sometimes it can be 
 hard to find parts to repair your gun. Repairing is essential in Fallout. You'll use and make guns 
 like, Laser pistol, missle launcher, hunting rifle, plasma rifle, frag mines, mini-nuke launchers, 
 and variety of assult/light SMG rifles.
  
  Now for graphics and music Bethesda spared no expense. Both are fantastic and will immerse you 
 into the unique world that is Fallout. In conclusion if you enjoy RPG's or loved Oblivian as I 
 did, without a doubt pick up Fallout its a great experience and the fun overall outweights the 
 cons of the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: badhoagie91
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 23, 2008 2:06 am PT
Review:  Fallout 3 is one of the most anticipated games of the year and delivers on being a worthy successor 
 to both Oblivion and Fallout 2. 
  
  STORY:
  The story in fallout 3 is not one of its strongest parts, in fact it can get down right bad near 
 the end of the main quest, but there are some interesting story lines that you can follow by taking 
 side quests or by reading note or listening to 
 
  
  REPLAYABILITY:
  Fallout 3 is a vey long game, the main quest itself can take you as long as about 30 hours but 
 there are a handful of sidequests that you can tackle that can take you as long as 3 hours or so 
 to finish which each have multiple ways to finish them. With that sid it could take you as much 
 as 4 or 5 full playthroughs to see everything that fallout 3 has to offer......................9.5
 
  
  CONTROLS:
  If You Have ever played Oblivion then you would feel right at home with the controls, they are 
 basically still the same except for the major addition of the V. A. T. S. system which allows you 
 target individual body parts of your enemy and and a whole new level of strategy to the game. Those 
 of you who are expecting to play the next halo or call of duty are probably going to hate this 
 game but RPG fans are most likely going to love 
  
  Graphics:
  This is not the best looking games out there but it does some things very well, the 
 environments look great but there are some very infrequent texture pop-ins that can get pretty 
 irritating. The character models are decent and the facial animation is above par but definitely 
 not on a half-life 2 scale. By far the Best part about the graphics in this game is the draw distance, 
 when you are walking around the wasteland you can see really far on the horizon and always know 
 that you will be able to get 
  
  Fallout 3 is really good game that should be played by anyone who calls them self a gamer, but 
 it feels that a few more months in development would have really made this game an instant classic.
 
  
   
::::::

::::::
UserName: flyingpanther71
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 23, 2008 12:37 am PT
Review:  This is one of the best games that I have played on the Xbox360. I was sucked into the storyline 
 from the start. The gamplay is another plus. I didn't like Oblivion which has a similar game play 
 style but it works with this game. The graphics capture the wasteland that is post nuculear war 
 America. They are absoultley beautiful. I also enjoy the voice acting. The developers did a wonderful 
 job picking voices that matched the characters. The sound effects are also very well done. They 
 help to create an amazing environment to explore. The combat system is the crown jewel of this 
 game. The way it incorprates the first person shooter aspect with a turnbased target system that 
 you have to charge up is very interesting. The only complaint I have with this game is that fact 
 that it is easy to lose track of time while playing. I have stayed up late more than one night 
 playing in the the short time that I have had the game (much to my wife's disgust) . This game has 
 a great chance to be named game of the year. I believe that everyone with an Xbox360 should at 
 least try this game out! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jeff917
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 22, 2008 11:15 pm PT
Review:  Warning: The opinions expressed in the following review are NOT endorsed by anyone at Gamespot 
 or any professional reviewer. I'm not paid for my reviews and I do them for fun. They may contain: 
 Foul Language, Violence, references to farts, A lot of references to the word "Poo" totally bodily 
 function loss, or possibly the total collapse of civilization as we know. Oh also reading these 
 reviews you may feel the need to toss a Midget or start a Cripple fight. There is a longer list 
 of things that could happen but I don't feel like posting them here. You have been Warned.
  
  Learning Curve: 30 Minutes
  
  Score: 10 out of 10
  
  I'm going to say it right off 
 the bat, I tried to play Oblivion on my PS3 and I didn't get that far, because to me it was way 
 too complicated and hard. Well when Fallout 3 came out last month I'll be honest I was planing 
 on not getting this game because of the fact it was done by the same people who made oblivion boy 
 am I glad I didn't go through with what I was planing. I got this game and it refuses to let me 
 go. 
  
  Fallout 3 was made to have that tacky look of the 50's in Fallout 3 you play as a character who 
 was "Born" in vault 101 a vault is a bunker that was made to withstand nuclear fallout you start 
 the game as a baby and during several small missions in the beginning you see your character grow 
 from baby to child than to teen than one day your father who is your only family disappears from 
 the vault, than all hell breaks loose one day when your father leaves the vault why does he leave? 
 No one knows but one thing is for sure, for your father leaving a lot of people want you dead. 
 
  
  When your character escapes the vault after fighting for their survival you leave the vault and 
 enter Washington DC. I remember when I left the vault the screen was blurry (I'll get to that later 
 in the review) when the blur ended I saw Washington DC and oh my god I was blown away, I've seen 
 landscapes in a lot of 360 and PS3 games but this by far blew me away, what I saw was over 200 
 years of nuclear fallout and damage. 
  
  I didn't know what I was going to do there I was suffering severe screen blurring my health was 
 low from my fight out of the vault and I was in the middle of no where. I entered a school and 
 I was attacked by humans that wanted nothing more than to hang my corpse from the ceiling. I was 
 barely able to make it through there I was able to get some health I was at full health and my 
 screen kept blurring I made my way to the quaint town of Megaton it was there I found my first 
 real friends. 
  
  I won't continue on I don't want to spoil the story for everyone, back to the review this game 
 has a karma scale depending on what you do in the game it'll affect people differently, and you 
 may or may not be able to form friendships based on your karma level. I'll be honest I wasn't a 
 nice person, I didn't go as far as hurting innocent people (Meaning I didn't kill anyone who didn't 
 deserve it) but I did steal from them and for that I did get a severely bad Karma, as of the time 
 I finally finished the game I was pure evil.
  
  Now onto the screen blurring, the game has a damage system it's not only your job to make sure 
 your HP is full but also make sure you maintain the wellness of your body each part of your body 
 has different purposes but if they get too damaged they will read as "Crippled" and if they are 
 "Crippled" you'll notice everything from not being able to walk as fast as possible if your legs 
 get hurt to your arms not able to steady your gun if your getting shot to the screen blurring for 
 the first several hours I didn't know what was wrong because I was stupid I jumped in without reading 
 up about the game and I had to learn the hard way. It wasn't till I saw on the loading screen how 
 to fix it.
  
  The weapons of Fallout 3 have been dated to have a futuristic look to it, so don't expect overly 
 realistic looking lasers or plasma guns they were made to look sort of B-Horror and that's how 
 they look in this game, There are more realistic guns such as .32, Assault Riffles, Chinese Riffles, 
 Pistols, Sniper Riffles and so forth there are also a series of weapons you can make via scavenged 
 parts found around the Wasteland, you will need schematics for them though and they require parts 
 that aren't as easy to find as it is to find garbage. 
  
  There are many quests in this game there are main quests that will effect the way the overall story 
 of the game will unfold and there are side quests these will mainly help you stat up in the game 
 and earn some money but they aren't important to the story competition, I suggest that you do all 
 the quests possible you don't want to advance too far into the game without being strong enough. 
 It's better to be safe than sorry I always say. The game makers put a level cap at 20 which I will 
 admit I'm personally not happy with this but I don't have a choice I have to accept it. Each time 
 you level up you'll pick where your leveling up points will go I. E: lock picking, science, guns 
 so fourth. and you'll also pick a perk each time you level up a Perk is a special gift you can 
 use in the game everything from getting health from the sun to being able to kill people in their 
 sleep. 
  
  Now onto the last part of the review Overall the visuals are breath taking they did a great job 
 trying to show what a area would look like with over 200 years of damage to it, how people would 
 change and what would come out of the radiation. The sounds are second to none, and I'll be honest 
 I haven't heard anything this year sound as nice as this game sounds. Control wise it's very sleek 
 and responsive the only downside is they put the jump on the Y button. Which will take some time 
 to get to use to, Earlier in the game I also noticed several Visual disturbances, I'm not talking 
 about dead bodies spawning and hitting the ground I'm talking about complete screen disturbance 
 like there was damage to the disk but there was none to be seen. Imagine a old NES cartridge when 
 it had dust on it, you remember how the screen would be distorted with different colored shapes? 
 it's like that. But I'm not going to penalize this game because lets face it, other than that it's 
 perfect. 
  
  I know that I didn't cover everything possible in this game I hope that you can do that.
  
 
  The Plus: Virtually everything in the game
  
  The Negative: Early visual disturbance in some spots, nothing really to complain about
  
  So 
 overall this game is perfect and it'll take awhile to complete the game it took me 78 hours the 
 last time a game took me this long was Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas and that game was perfect 
 also, So for this game being as perfect as it is, it deserves nothing less than a perfect 10 out 
 of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Colin4128
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 22, 2008 1:20 pm PT
Review:  The more you play the more you want to play and when its done you look down with disappointment 
 at the fact that there is no more. Fallout 3 is very well rounded. It doesn't focus too much on 
 the story like Mass effect and it isn't a senseless violent shoot-um-up game like Cod4 (Not that 
 thats a bad thing) . The game follows in Oblivion's footsteps, which might sound strange, considering 
 it's the third installment to a completely different franchise. Fallout 3 is similar to the others 
 in the fallout series in name and theme only, having thrown away with many of the old turn-base 
 elements.
  
  Fallout 3 takes starts 30 years after the events of Fallout 2, and 200 years after the nuclear 
 war that ravaged the country. The setting has changed from the West-Coast to Washington DC this 
 time around. On the surface, survivors of the holocaust formed small towns, constantly attacked 
 by mutants and raiders. There are no more large settlements all the huge cities have turned into 
 little heaps of scrap. The currency that they use is Bottle caps. Clean water is verry scarce and 
 the main focus of the game's story.
  
  The game starts off at your birth. You see your father, James bringing you into the world and your 
 mother going through childbirth. It jumps to your first year in Vault 101. Your father -- a well 
 respected scientist -- sees you take your first steps. Once alone, you are allowed to explore your 
 crib's surroundings. It is here you assign your first attribute points. The game goes forward again 
 to your 10th birthday where you receive a PIP-Boy-3000 -- a GPS with many extra features. The vault 
 part of the game is short but sets the games tone: you are a young man loved by his father living 
 in a society that thinks it can control every aspect of a person's life. Everything is good, until 
 one day you are abruptly awakened by a friend that tells you your father broken vault law by leaving 
 the vault. Your life is in danger, so you decide to escape to search for him.
  
  Like Oblivion you are aloud to to modify your charters features before you leave int o the world. 
 Once outside, players get a glimpse of the horror that is the surface. The effect is very shocking, 
 even for a video game. Vegetation is nonexistent; they have been replaced with rocks and dirt; 
 towns and cities have been totally devastated, with the occasional house still standing; overpasses 
 and bridges are broken to the point that they are allmost unidentifiable; road signs and cars are 
 scattered about, reminding us that this world once had life.
  
  After a few minutes of exploration, and after having encountered a mutant, players find Megaton, 
 a town built around an unexploded nuclear bomb. The town is fortified with pieces of jetliner fuselages. 
 Inside we have trailers, metallic ramps, makeshift houses and whatever else could serve as shelter. 
 The developers really made the town look like something survivors would build out of scrap. Most 
 of the makeshift settlements are believable in their improvised nature. It is here players can 
 decide to either continue looking for their father or explore Megaton.
  
  The RPG element of the game is centered on the various abilities and atrubites. After leveling 
 up, players can put togather a certain number of points to various skills, upgrade Perks and increase 
 attributes. Skills are exactly what the name states. A higher lock picking skill, for instance, 
 makes opening locked objects easier. Perks add special abilities that can't be characterized as 
 a profession.
  
  There is alot of blood and gore, as well as gratuitous swearing, even among children. The game 
 is pretty much designed for adults. A player can even hire the services of a prostitute. The game 
 is mainly a shooter but it has enough RPG elements to keep both Action and RPG fans occupied. The 
 choices players are allowed to make are what make the game fun and exciting. Simply talking to 
 characters can avoid a lot of combat. Actually you can kill everybody that you come in contact 
 with, even the good guys.
  
  The story is rather short. If there was no side-missions, Fallout 3 would have been a 10-hour game. 
 But with all the extra quests, the game gives players tons of play time, that is if one decides 
 to fully enjoy everything. Some players will undoubtedly have problems with the game. It's one 
 of those games where you create your legacy. Play evil and you might get some things done faster; 
 play good and you will be everyone's errand boy, but at least you'll see the best possible plot 
 outcomes.
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sexytime-
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 21, 2008 2:44 pm PT
Review:  This game is like the magic candy in the Lion Witch and Wardrobe. The more you play the more you 
 want to play and when its done you look down with disappointment at the fact that there is no more. 
 
  
  I have to say this game is my favorite game to date and i've played through the whole thing as 
 good and bad. 
  
  Fallout 3 is very well rounded. It doesn't focus too much on the story like Mass effect and it 
 isn't a senseless violent shoot-um-up game like Cod4. It is an open ended world with about 7-10 
 hours main quest and 100 hours of sidequest and things to do. 
  
  
  The game has some very good ideas in it and a lot of chances to roleplay. 
  
  in my opinion 
 a 9.9/10. the game lost .1 points for not having npcs have more diologue options to recognize roleplaying 
 and for the exploding baby carriages with fake babys in them (at which i was very disappointed 
 at) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GameObserver
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 21, 2008 11:14 am PT
Review:  It's difficult to review Fallout 3 without comparing it to The Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion. Both 
 games use the same Gamebryo engine, and both were designed by Bethesda Softworks, a studio that 
 has made a name for itself making good open-ended RPG's with an acquired taste. The game follows 
 in Oblivion's footsteps, which might sound strange, considering it's the third installment to a 
 completely different franchise (the Fallout series, of course) . Fallout 3 is similar to its two 
 predecessors in name and theme only, having done away with many of the old turn-base elements. 
 But like its precursors, Bethesda managed to create an engrossing post-apocalyptic world, full 
 of bleakness and despair with pockets of hope.
  
  Fallout 3 shows us that humanity can survive any obstacles or attempts by higher powers to ensnare 
 our freedom through propaganda and mindless patriotism. If anything, the game is a decent social 
 commentary of today's realities. The message is conveyed rather nicely and gameplay holds its ground 
 to this ambitious undertaking. It's not without flaws -- the biggest one being that it resembles 
 Oblivion too much -- but it is well worth checking out. Though not the perfect title many have 
 been proclaiming, fans of gore, horror, action, gun-totting patriotism or libertarianism are nonetheless 
 in for a treat.
  
  
  THE AMERICAN DREAM: COMIC BOOKS AND FANCY CARS  DON'T MIND THE DEVASTATION
  
  Fallout 3 takes 
 place 30 years after the events of the second game, and 200 years after the nuclear war that ravaged 
 the country. The setting moved from the West-Coast to Washington DC, but things are just as bleak. 
 On the surface, survivors of the holocaust formed small towns, constantly attacked by raiders and 
 mutants. Life for the unlucky few revolves around scavenging for junk. Large cities are a thing 
 of the past. People live in settlements carved out of scrap. The common currency is bottle caps, 
 water is scarce and purified water is a luxury. Forget gold or diamonds; clean water is the day's 
 rarity and at the forefront of Fallout 3's story.
  
  Whatever was left of the country's government hid inside "Vaults" spread across the land, where 
 it maintained much of the pre-war way of life. Like 2007's Bioshock, we are presented with a 50's 
 retro world. The artificial innocence of that era lends itself perfectly to the theme, where comfort 
 and obedience is vanguard, at least in the vaults.
  
  The story begins quite literally at your birth. You see your father, James (voiced by Liam Neeson) , 
 delivering you into the world and your mother succumbing to childbirth. Flash-forward to your first 
 year in Vault 101. Your father -- a prominent scientist -- sees you take your first steps. Once 
 alone, you are allowed to explore your crib's surroundings. It is here you assign your first attribute 
 points (Strength, Agility, etc.) . The game flashes forward again to your tenth birthday where you 
 ceremoniously receive a PIP-Boy-3000 -- a GPS with many extras. The vault part is short but sets 
 the tone: you are a young man loved by his father living in a rationed society that thinks it can 
 control every aspect of a person's life -- a form of socialist jail controlled by an overseer. 
 Everything is peachy, until one day you are awakened by a friend that tells you your father broken 
 vault law by leaving the compound. Your life in danger, you decide to escape in search of him.
 
  
  Like in Oblivion, you are allowed to modify your character's face, gender, and skills before heading 
 off into the world. Once outside, players get a glimpse of the horror that is the surface. The 
 effect is somewhat shocking, even for a video game. Bethesda did a great job recreating the devastation. 
 Vegetation is nonexistent; the lush greeneries of Oblivion have been replaced with rocks and dirt; 
 towns and cities have been razed, with the occasional house still standing; overpasses and bridges 
 look like broken giants; road signs and cars are scattered about, reminding us that this world 
 once indeed had life.
  
  After a few minutes of exploration, and after having encountered your first mutant (a dog or a 
 molerat) , players find Megaton, a town built around an unexploded nuclear bomb.
  
  
  IT'S WATERWORLD WITHOUT THE WATER
  
  Megaton looks like Waterworld's main atoll, where Kevin 
 Costner sold dirt. The town is fortified with pieces of jetliner fuselages. Inside we have metallic 
 ramps, makeshift houses, trailers and whatever else could serve as shelter. Bethesda efficiently 
 made the town look like something survivors would build out of scrap. Most of the makeshift settlements 
 are believable in their improvised nature. It is here players can decide to either continue looking 
 for their father or explore the "Capital Wasteland".
  
  Fallout 3 has an enormous amount of side missions, from helping a local write a survival guide 
 by gathering objects scattered in the wasteland, to acting as a mediator for a wannabe super-hero 
 (The Mechanist) feuding with a demented super-villain (The AntAgonizer) . Good deeds can give your 
 character Karma points, which in theory serve to improve your standing with other NPC characters 
 and can slightly alter gameplay. Stealing and murdering takes them away, but in practice having 
 Karma doesn't open up any real opportunities. The only noticeable advantage is a woman occasionally 
 giving you gifts in Megaton and your father eventually praising you for being a Good Samaritan.
 
  
  The RPG element of the game is centered on the various abilities. After leveling up, players can 
 allot a certain number of points to various professions (skills) , upgrade Perks (another form of 
 skill) and increase attributes (Strength, Agility) . Skills are exactly what the name states. A 
 higher lock picking skill, for instance, makes opening locked objects easier. Perks add special 
 abilities that can't be characterized as a profession, like receiving bonuses while fighting at 
 night or increasing your experience gaining rate.
  
  Fallout 3 lets players play in a variety of ways, depending on what you decide to focus on. Electronic 
 skills allow players to hack into rather realistic-looking computers (it seems Microsoft finally 
 came to its senses and reverted back to DOS in 2027) . Thieving skills let players steal and pickpocket. 
 Action skills give various fighting advantages. Speech -- one of the more important skills -- lets 
 players talk their way out of situations and so on.
  
  Bethesda added a turn-based real-time combat element to the game with the Vault-Tec Assisted Targeting 
 System, or V. A. T. S. for short. Simply put, VATS freezes time and lets player aim at specific enemy 
 body parts. At first this feature seems like a gimmick, but once skills and Perks are high enough, 
 VATS becomes very useful. Targeting a limb can disarm or cripple an enemy. Various parts or opponents 
 can be targeted in a single session, provided there are enough action points. Once parts have been 
 selected, action unfolds in bullet-time with some rather nice slow-motion effects.
  
  Gore abounds, as well as gratuitous swearing, even amongst child characters. The game is noticeably 
 designed for adults. One can even hire the services of a prostitute. The game is mainly a shooter 
 but it has enough RPG elements to keep both Action and RPG fans occupied. The choices players are 
 allowed to make are what make the game fun. Simply talking to characters can avoid a lot of combat. 
 Conversely, players can kill everybody they come across, even the good guys.
  
  Killing opponents with various weapons produces varied results. For example, slashing someone's 
 arm with a sword will sometimes cut the limb off. Though takedown effects are nice, especially 
 while using VATS, and graphics have nice effects, Fallout 3 still suffers from Oblivion's graphical 
 limitations. Bethesda reused Oblivion's Gamebryo engine but it unfortunately didn't improve the 
 physics. Characters still walk like plastic toy figurines and topple over like dummies when killed. 
 Note to Bethesda: the Gamebryo engine sucks; stop using it.
  
  Everything in the Fallout world looks nice, but animation is crap. Oblivion suffered from blocky 
 object collision and that's still true here. As a result, gunfights can be a bit sluggish. Another 
 graphical downer is the limited amount of character designs, both among friendly and enemy characters. 
 All human characters have the same basic model design, save for a few facial and clothing differences. 
 There are no fat people (understandable since times are hard) but there are also no skinny or short 
 adults either. Variety amongst mutants is lacking too. There is but a dozen or so characters in 
 the entire game. Considering Fallout 3 is a long game, players will get to see the same faces too 
 often.
  
  AI can be pretty stupid at times. There are moments where enemies and friendly characters will 
 get stuck around walls or not find their way around a staircase. NPC characters will also go out 
 of their way to antagonize nearby enemies, forcing players to get into needless fights. Members 
 can be added to your team (up to three characters) , but there too few teammates in the game to 
 even mention. Many players will go through the entire story without ever finding someone to help 
 them out. I personally missed the much-advertised dog character. Having said that, Fallout 3 is 
 a huge game feature-wise. Many elements will be missed through the first playthrough, which can 
 take many sleepless nights.
  
  
  OK, BETHESDA, WE GET IT: YOU LOVE OBLIVION
  
  Gameplay is very addictive once you get settled into the flow of exploring the wasteland. Time 
 flies almost as quickly as the game's night and day effects. Running around doing missions and 
 gathering garbage for barter, again, resembles Oblivion, sometimes painfully. Hundreds of objects 
 can found and sold, or used to create custom items. Again, the feature sounds good on paper but 
 in practice it leaves much to be desired. There's a limited amount of items that can be created 
 and most players won't ever bother with the feature. You can get a house in Megaton, which acts 
 as a dumping ground for all the extra junk found while looting. The house can be fitted with a 
 workbench (used to create custom items) and few more extras, though none of them really have a 
 practical purpose. Still, it's there, which is a plus. Wadsworth, your robotic butler, is a treat 
 to listen to.
  
  Undiscovered areas have to be reached on foot, but once a location has been found, fast-travel 
 can get you from one place to another instantaneously. Unfortunately, the world only seems vast. 
 Megaton has maybe a dozen inhabitants. The game's largest settlement, Rivet City (that's Rivet 
 not River) , has even fewer citizens, and it's supposed to be a converted aircraft carrier. Missions 
 will often be a spit away from their source. The AntAgonizer (demented super-villain) is only a 
 few feet north of Canterbury Commons, the town that issues the mission.
  
  Another downer is Bethesda rehashing of old concepts, like vampires and religious cults from the 
 "other game" I have mentioned too often already. Note to Bethesda #2: let go of Oblivion -- it 
 seems entrenched in your psyche. Speaking of the "other game", a large part of the action will 
 take place in caves, caverns, grottos, metros or other similar-looking hollowed-out underground 
 chambers. Needless to say, those parts all look alike. Buildings are no better. Many have repetitive 
 rooms. Players will often get lost while exploring offices, mainly because the game's indoor map 
 doesn't have vertical layers.
  
  Sound and music is great but it has its downers. The positive is Bethesda's decision to focus on 
 50's music. Listening to 50's classics is a treat, especially when blasting a super-mutant's head 
 off while some "dame" sings about love -- priceless. The cheery music can get annoying, though. 
 It's gimmicky. A few radio stations can be picked up by your Pip-Boy 3000 but only Galaxy Radio 
 acts as the game's source of "music". Fortunately, Fallout 3 has its own ambient tunes, and they 
 are very good, though a bit too few and far between.
  
  Sound effects are great. Caves (and Bethesda knows its caves) have perfect ambient drips and crumbling 
 sounds, and hearing ghouls panting out of view will send chills down your spine. Wind sound effects 
 in caves are often used to clue the player in on how close they are to an exit. Sadly, NPC character 
 lines are very repetitive. This is noticeable even during the first raider encounter. For the most 
 part voice acting is decent while interacting with characters. There are instances where actors 
 simply recite lines, and sometimes midway into a sentence it sounds like the dialog was recorded 
 in another studio using different equipment, but in general voices are decent. With so much voice 
 acting one expects a few blemishes here and there.
  
  
  
  The story itself is rather short. Had it not been for the side-missions, Fallout 3 would have been 
 a 10-hour game, at the most. But with all the extra quests (200 last I heard) , the game gives players 
 loads of play time, that is if one decides to fully enjoy everything. Some players will undoubtedly 
 have problems will Bethesda's latest creation. It's one of those games where you create your legacy. 
 Play evil and you might get some things done faster; play good and you will be everyone's errand 
 boy or girl, but at least you'll see the best possible plot outcomes.
  
  One flaw about most of the plots is the inert narration. The game seriously lacks cutscenes. Everything 
 is told through dialog, with characters standing around like dummies, occasionally moving their 
 arms for effect. It would have been nice to see some actual action during scenes. This is especially 
 true at the very end, where you are asked to make some rather important choices. Even there, everybody 
 stands around like props. The ending is also rather disappointing, especially Bethesda's decision 
 not to allow players to continue playing past the ending.
  
  
  SUMMARY
  
  In all, Fallout 3 delivers more in style than in gameplay. The Capital Wasteland conveys a bleak 
 reality. Graphics, though limited by the theme, are depressive and barren -- as they should be. 
 The retro theme adds an eerie reality to it all. This is especially true when your character gets 
 stuck in a simulation program with a scientist hell-bent on preserving his perfect middle-class 
 suburb. Everything is so perfect and artificial you end up wanting to get back out into the filth 
 on the surface. Having said that, the Fallout 3 is more than just a post-apocalyptic Action-RPG; 
 it's an effective social commentary that freedom is not about creating a perfectly sterile world 
 with no choices, but about allowing citizens to do whatever they want, no matter how dirty and 
 ugly their actions may be.
  
  GRAPHICS 87
  Realistic devastation and settlements and nice overall graphics, but character designs and animation 
 are too repetitive. 
  
  GAMEPLAY 84
  Open-endedness is a blast, though action can be sluggish. Slight AI problems and some features 
 are useless. Too much like Oblivion.
  
  PRODUCTION 82
  Authentic 50's style and settings convey well. Lack of animated cutscenes makes for stiff storytelling. 
 Rehashed concepts. Game with an important message.
  
  SOUND 85
  Retro music adds a nice twist but gets old. Great sound effects. NPCs repeat themselves. Some voices 
 are sub-par, both in delivery and quality. 
  
  LASTING APPEAL 90
  Too many missions to accomplish on the first run. Not being allowed to continue playing after the 
 end forces players to replay the game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jorlen
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 21, 2008 8:57 am PT
Review:  Have you ever beaten a game after spending 40 hours playing it, and then immediately restarted 
 it afterwards? It's never happened to me before, well, before Fallout 3 that is. I'm now nearing 
 level cap on my 2nd character, 70 hours in, and still loving it. So if you're concerned about replay, 
 well, please disregard said concern immediately, and read on.
  
  I'm going to assume you're familiar with Bethesda's past works, or at the very least familiar with 
 Oblivion, and if you're not, what the hell is wrong with you? ;)
  
  Bad jokes aside, Bethesda have once again released a masterpiece of a game, giving true definition 
 to the word progress. It's as if they've taken everything bad from Oblivion and fixed it, tweaked 
 it out, improved upon it in ways that I never thought possible. I mean, back when Bethesda bought 
 the fallout I. P. people were skeptical but not me. I figured if anyone was going to pick up the 
 pieces from Interplay laying off Black Isle (rat bastards) Bethesda would be the ones to do it 
 for the right reasons and do it well. As far as gameplay, length and quests, they've managed to 
 surpass my expectations (which were very high) and while the dark comedy setting is still there, 
 nothing will ever match Black Isle's writers, so I warn you now it's not quite the same caliber 
 of writing but still good nonetheless. I got plenty of chuckles / laughs but it's not the same, 
 but I hadn't expected it to be anyways, knowing very well that Black Isle's unique writing is in 
 the past, end of discussion.
  
  Going forward, Fallout 3 is without a doubt, the best RPG I have ever played. Period. I'll not 
 list my extensive resume of games played, but I will say that I'm 29 years old now and I've played 
 a sh! tload of RPGs (seeing as they're my fav genre) and this one tops the list. Game of the year. 
 Hell, game of several years for me. Not since Mass Effect, and of course, Oblivion, have I been 
 this hooked, this engrossed, this amazed by a video game.
  
  So, with all this praise, what's so good about it? Uhm... Everything? Fallout 3 uses the gamebryo 
 engine, same as Oblivion, but it has been significantly tweaked. LOD textures look great, performance 
 is good, load times are lowered and overall graphical prowess improved (lots of nice little touches 
 you're sure to notice) .
  
  Apart from graphics, another huge improvement is the leveling up system, and of course, the brilliant 
 VATS system. This is NOT Oblivion with guns, anyone with a brain (and who's ACTUALLY played Fallout 
 3) can attest to that. To level up now, you kill stuff, you unlock doors, you discover places and 
 such to gain experience, and then level up and pick your skills and a perk per level. It's brilliant, 
 simple, foolproof and well rounded yet still allows for plenty of depth / custom play, enabling 
 you to make several character builds that differ greatly from one another.
  
  The VATS system allows you to spend action points to sort of "pause time" and strategically target 
 specific body parts. Yes you can do head shots hoping for that crit, or you can knock out the opponent's 
 firearm from his hand or cripple his legs to slow him down. For the first time in any RPG, after 
 like 70 hours, I still enjoy the combat because every fight will present different variables. Cover 
 is important and also angle. If that mirelurk is looking down or standing on the side, you won't 
 be able to aim for his face. It's brilliant, fun and reminiscent of the past fallout games and 
 their action points system (that I've played more that I'd like to admit) . So, in combat you will 
 mix 1st person shooter mechanics and frantic firefights and toss in the VATS system while you have 
 action points to spend (they slowly replenish over time) . Basically, combat doesn't seem to get 
 old, and after 70 hours that is a feat, I don't care how you put it.
  
  I can't forget to mention the karma system as well. As you've guessed, depending on your actions, 
 you'll either get karma, or have some removed. When you get down in the negative you'll become 
 evil. It's not just for show; characters will react differently depending on it, and also some 
 followers may flat out refuse to adventure with you your moral compass doesn't match theirs. Often, 
 quests, not only the main one, will offer you different options in order to proceed. Not just good 
 or bad either. Sometimes it fall in that gray area :) And, as in previous fallout games, you always 
 have the choice of simply killing everyone and looting them if it pleases you. Freedom of choice 
 is very pertinent in this game, and real, unlike some other RPGs where it's mainly an illusion.
 
  
  Warning: more oblivion comparisons incoming! Yeah yeah, I know I keep going back to Oblivion and 
 offering comparisons but how I can not? It's the same (brilliant) company, and the same engine 
 (although improved, as I've already mentioned) . Remember exploring in Oblivion, finding a cave, 
 with that all too familiar layout, getting all the way to the bottom and finding a chest with 3 
 coins and a boot, leaving you horribly disappointed? Those days are long gone. Fallout 3's secrets 
 and side quests and locations are all interesting, and fresh. Examples? Nah, why spoil it? But 
 hey, don't take my word for it, go and get this game right now and play it.
  
  The only bad points I can give the game are some occasional bugs, but they're not frequent. Keep 
 in mind I'm reviewing the 360 version. I got stuck in landscape on occasion forcing me to either 
 fast travel or reload my game. On occasion, an enemy killed in water has sunken and fallen through 
 the world. In 70 hours I've had two game freezes. Suffice to say that for a massive open-ended 
 game of this scope, the bugs are bearable. Without these minor gripes I would have awarded the 
 game a perfect 10.
  
  I'm going to stop here because quite frankly, Fallout 3 can't be described in words. It must be 
 experienced, and what an experience it is! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EstebanPiecrust
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 21, 2008 3:08 am PT
Review:  It's funny how a lot of people get the wrong idea about things. On the surface of things, you could 
 say that if a game has guns and is viewed in the first person, that makes it a first person shooter. 
 This isn't the case, you see comparing Fallout 3 to Halo 3 is like comparing Oblivion to Condemned, 
 sure the combat systems are similar, but looking deeply into each reveals more on how you play 
 these games.
  
  The immediate arguement I've been hearing against Fallout 3 is that the combat is clunky. Truth 
 be it, if your crossheirs are covering your enemy, you are likely to hit. If we were playing a 
 shooter, if you didn't hit then there are problems with the game, however, this is an arrpeegee 
 and every time you fire your gun, the game considers your skill with the weapon and the condition 
 of your weapon. Didn't people get the idea with Mass Effect? So, where does that leave us if our 
 guns aren't necessarilly hitting our targets? Well we have the VATS system. Now you see, it's all 
 very easy to go in guns blazing and using your VATS system to pick off head shots, but it's a risky 
 strategy in a game like this, especially in the early stages. If you're clever about what you're 
 doing, this game isn't so hard. Let's say you're struggling to hit your enemy and when you are, 
 you're doing a tiny amount of damage. You have your hunting rifle, a few frag grenades and a combat 
 shotgun but your enemies are at a distance and aren't coming close any time soon. You still have 
 options, you can use your hunting rifle in VATS to shoot the weapons out their hands if you can, 
 forcing them to switch to a close quarters weapon and then finishing them with your shotgun. Can't 
 shoot the weapon out their hands? Throw a grenade, if it doesn't kill them, it often forces them 
 to draw in close, again allowing you to get the best out of your shotgun. So now they're coming 
 at me with melee weapons and I'm struggling to keep my distance! use VATS to shoot out their legs. 
 It is in fact a very versatile system that requires a little more thinking and often feels very 
 rewarding.
  
  Another complaint that I've heard is that survival in the game is hard. You're living in a post 
 apocalyptic, irradiated wastleland, of course survival is going to be difficult. It's safe to say 
 that unless you're a thieving b*stard, you are going to struggle with keeping the funds to repair 
 your weapons, ammo and stimpacks will be hard to come by and that's where scavenging for supplies, 
 taking what you can and making use of it adds to the authentisity of this experience and that is 
 exactly what this game is. A Post Apocalyptic experience.
  
  This game isn't perfect though. The story is interesting but short, this is only a minor criticism 
 though as the idea of this game is much like Oblivion, to explore and there is a lot to discover. 
 Saying that, there are parts in the script where I feel that people move on emotionally way too 
 quickly after certain major events in the storyline, a survival instinct based around their current 
 environment or bad scripting? I'm not 100% convinced either way. There are other problems too, 
 the game neglects to mention certain aspects of the game that were probably worth mentioning in 
 some sort of tutorial, I mean let's face it, almost every game introduces gameplay functions in 
 game now as reading manuals isn't for everyone. It wasn't until I'd set off two mines and a trip 
 wire that I discovered that the Pip-Boy had a torch and as for repairing your own weapons, who 
 would've guessed that you needed to scavenge parts of similar shape in order to repair them, don't 
 get me wrong, I'm not criticising the system, just the fact that if these things are in fact explained 
 in game (though I'm pretty sure they're not) they're extremely easy to miss.
  
  These criticisms are fairly minor though and when you take into consideration that this is an immersive 
 game with beautiful graphics and an intuitive combat system, that it really is a contender for 
 best 360 game yet.
  
  
  
  -- I KNOW you'd never compare Oblivion to Condemned, but THAT'S THE PONIT! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sikkill
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 20, 2008 9:01 pm PT
Review:  theres only 4 things i have to say bad about this game and they are small things. first the inside 
 part of locations do not regenerate loot or monsters, so once you plundered a place youll probally 
 never come back. second the level cap is 20 and i kinda see why, because your guy will get powerful 
 escpecially with the grim reaper sprint perk. third, after you finish the main quest you will not 
 be able to continue like in oblivion, you get a really powerful pistol then a minute later the 
 games over. fourth, the length of the game, i beat it in less than 40 hours, i was kinda expecting 
 the lenght to rival oblivion.
  
  dont get me wrong this game is good, the story immersive, 5 different difficultiesfor gamers of 
 all type, controls tight, new spin on "bullet time", and these 4 measly nitpicks cannot even match 
 the pros this game has. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vexxorg
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 20, 2008 6:50 pm PT
Review:  Fallout 3 has the distinction of being the coolest most engaging game of the year by far. Despite 
 a few minor visual issues here and there and the somewhat sterile elements present in the latter 
 part of the main story; Fallout 3 deserves a 10/10. There is just too much game here to get anything 
 less. The landscape of post-war D. C is a harsh and desolate place and it will blow your mind from 
 start to finish. The second you exit Vault 101 and you catch that first glimpse of the Capital 
 Wasteland you will know what I mean. 
  The NPCs are slightly more interesting than in Bethsoft's previous games in the sense that the 
 lip synching is dead on and the characters emote with much more believable tones.
  The guns are satisfying both in power and appearance. Melee and hand to hand are implemented well 
 for the most part. 
  The skill and perks system is awesome. 
  
  Overall this game is worth the praise it has been given. There is no doubt in my mind that it is 
 the best game of the year and one of my favourite games of all time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dlb81
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 20, 2008 1:46 pm PT
Review:  I am an RPG enthusiast. Ever since Final Fantasy VII I entered into the addicting behavior of sitting 
 down and playing for hours. It has been a long time since a game has grasped my attention like 
 Final Fantasy VII. But I believe Fallout 3 has done it.
  
  I played Oblivion when it came out on XBOX360 and PC and thought it was okay. I was quickly excited 
 and then realized that the game had no variety. It was one long and boring quest after another 
 with all the same results. "QUICK I LOST SOMETHING ELSE! GO FIND IT 500 MILES FROM HERE AND BRING 
 IT BACK! I'LL MARK YOUR MAP BUT YOU STILL HAVE TO F (#@&@* ( WALK THERE! 
  
  This game takes the Oblivion formula and adds some spice to the missions. If anything, the mutated 
 inhabitants are enough to engage me. Also, just the feeling of wandering around a nuclear shell 
 of a world is enough to make it epic. This game delivers. 
  
  My only complaints is that the character interactions still feel stiff and unrealistic. Bethesda 
 tried to give them some body animations but I still want to skip their conversations after speed 
 reading through them. I tried turning off the subtitles for a realistic experience, but I still 
 wanted to club them in the head from talking too much.
  
  Other than that, there are endless things to say about this game. So many missions and so many 
 places to visit. I am enjoying every minute of this game still and I highly recommend you get it.
 
  
  If you are a gamer that likes a quick romp with lots of action, get Left4Dead and leave Fallout 
 3 on the shelf. If you want a game that will consume your life forever, get this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JimTimmons
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 20, 2008 9:57 am PT
Review:  It starts off a little strange but, like a pebble rolling down a hill, it quickly becomes a giant 
 boulder of addiction. Between the solid story, solid game play, and amazingly huge world, Fallout 
 3 is hard to stop playing once you get started. It's a life eater - in a good way of course!
  
  The sheer size of the map is almost daunting when you begin the game and it's much bigger than 
 it initially seems. When you exit the Vault, you really get the feeling of seeing the world for 
 the very first time, or what I would imagine that to feel like. You can literally spend hours wandering 
 about - and be completely entertained. After you discover a handful of places, you gain the ability 
 to fast travel, which helps reign in fears of being overwhelmed by the amount of space you can 
 explore. 
  
  Combat is definitely secondary to exploration and collecting riches, but the way battles and enemies 
 are spaced out make most of them really rewarding. Each fight seems to carry the proper amount 
 of weight - when you're kill a molerat, it's like punting a poodle, but killing off a group of 
 super mutants feels like an accomplishment. The way enemies are spaced out definitely leads to 
 some tense moments, which really add to the whole experience. The V. A. T. S. system is pretty cool, 
 although it's much more fun to use from a distance - headshots baby! It can make combat more like 
 a turn-based RPG, which, if that's your thing, is nice.
  
  The character interactions and voice acting are very solid. If you talk to the same person more 
 than once during a mission you're going to hear them say the exact same things, which takes away 
 from interaction a little bit, but it's still not too damaging. Each character expresses their 
 personality (wimp, dork, jerk, etc.) very well through their tones and speech patterns - and there 
 are a lot of characters (so far) .
  
  The leveling up seems natural - whenever you feel like maybe it should be time to level up, you 
 usually do. You're given a number of attribute points to apply to various skills, so you end up 
 choosing where your character improves the most. It helps enhance the idea that every choice you 
 make in the game affects your character and interactions.
  
  Besides the sometimes repetitive responses from characters, there were only two other mildly annoying 
 aspects of the game. The V. A. T. S. system is not great in close quarter combat or with melee weapons 
 - unless you need to take a break. It takes away from the frantic feelings of being attacked by 
 a giant ant. Initially I was put off by the fact that your character is limited in how much stuff 
 they can collect and carry at a time. If you're carrying more than your "limit" then you cannot 
 run or fast travel, which was frustrating at first. I do like it now, because it forces you to 
 pay attention to, and make choices about, what you're carrying, but it was definitely an adjustment 
 to begin with. Also, third-person view is a waste of time, IMO
  
  Overall this is a great game. The story, the game play, the exploration, and the people, places, 
 and things, you run across in this game are truly amazing. It has many of the great qualities of 
 an RPG, a shooter, and an action game, tied into one, beautifully presented package. Definitely 
 an instant classic, and a must play for everyone.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: xsubtownerx
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 20, 2008 8:35 am PT
Review:  I have to tip my hat to Bethesda for making Fallout 3 look and feel like the previous fallout games. 
 If you focus on the story, you'll see that Bethesda did their homework and delivered an interesting 
 story that, to some extent, fallows up on Fallout 2 quite well. However short, you'll still have 
 fun from start to finish with the main quest. But we all know what Bethesda's hook is. Open world 
 with a plethora of exploring to do, and they sure did deliver on this part of the game.
  
  For starters, this game runs very smoothly for such a big world. While you're exploring the wasteland, 
 you'll notice that exploring this whole world will not be a walk in the park. Depending on how 
 your character is built, you'll quickly learn (in the earlier levels of your character) that rationing 
 your ammo is probably the smart thing to do, if you want to survive the early stages of your characters 
 life. However as you progress through the game and start to level up, the game can easily become 
 more of a shooter. Their seems to be some balancing issues once you've reached level 8. Getting 
 to level 20 (which is the max) from there won't take you long, if you've been exploring rather 
 than just sticking to the main plot. But for the most part, this game does make exploring fun with 
 some pretty cool side quests that all play differently.
  
  As for character creation, bethesda could have done a little more homework. Some attributes are 
 litteraly broken, like charisma and strenght. Science and speech skills also seem broken when it 
 comes to interacting with NPCs. However they did a good job with the medical and repair skills, 
 making them much better from the first fallout games. But this games big problem is the same as 
 Oblivion's, which is the fact that most NPCs use the same voice actor and it kills the mood after 
 a while. I know bethesda have the ressources needed to add more actors to the game, and the size 
 of the game isn't an issue either seeing as how this game is only 5.5 GB. So my question is why 
 don't they make the NPCs in these games epic!?
  
  Overall this game is great fun, and in my opinion, much better than Oblivion. But for a Fallout 
 game, it's still missing some elements to truly make it a fallout game.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CCyberDDemon
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 20, 2008 8:13 am PT
Review:  The first problem on fallout 3 on my particular opnion is those outdated graphics (maybe its just 
 weird or badly done and not so out-dated as i speak) and some other things like the general art-design 
 (it is interesting but confusing)
  
  This games will remind you bethesda fans about The Elder Scrolls IV -- wich i love a damn lot.. 
 i might add.. -- the controls, the beggining of your avatar saga (starting on corridors and finishing 
 on the exploration) and exp points menu and option are almost the same as on Oblivion's game. I 
 hope i never have to go to hell to close the damned gate while i shoot some mutants here, im still 
 a little disturbed about that damn dremora scum, but anyway... its real like him, even the terrain 
 will remind you -- appart of wastelands be nothing but a ''havocked'' post apocalypse hell. Go 
 figure this, Fallout 3 CAN'T be bad, he got the best producers and sources to be almost perfect, 
 besides, Bethesda softworks DO HAVE a place in the top five list of world's most softhouses, and 
 everything that the gaming world have to offer. It was just bad luck maybe, when i think about 
 those problems ive told you. There is minor but annoying glitches all over the terrain and loading, 
 the camera try some action combinations after your V. A. T. S. moves (something like a special attack) 
 but they are all glitched, specially on corridors or too decorated places like stones and stuffs 
 whos get on the camera's way. Your character view on third person is exactly like these on Oblivion... its 
 just an absurd to release a game like that, with your avatar walking badly animated trought the 
 places... just horrible. So why give you this option of point of view if its real bad? They could 
 do nothing about that? Cmon now... There is a never-before seen final-art on this game (i never 
 trully saw one like it) Something like ' 50 or ' 60 old times mixed up with Mad Max style or I, 
 legend. 
  
  Go play Fallout 3 and be impressed by the in-game choices you may have, you will be eye crushed. 
 Its real cool to see how its turns after this and that, on choice or another... some of then dont 
 make that difference and some of then can reverse the game to another one. Cant explain, just play 
 it. I dislike his mistakes but i like what he have in good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigdogx27
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 20, 2008 1:30 am PT
Review:  all i have to say these is a must play. if you like shooter with RPG elements and lots of gore. 
 with a very deep story line these is your game. i enjoyed much more then oblivion. it will be game 
 of the year. the only downside is the ending was not as good as i hoped it will be and the mult 
 endings you are promised are pretty is to tell with out going threw the game all over again.
  
  combat is the staple of any good shooter and it does combat well. the vates system is cool 
 at times though the combat can be a little annoying but that those times are not vary often. the 
 weapons are bad ass and being able to shot a mini nuke never gets old.
  
  the story is well done with a lot twist and options to take. the game has great voice acting and 
 it is very easy to lose your self in the world of fallout. i have been to dc and the developers 
 did a good job of coping these city and turning it into a waste land very good game folks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: celtic1962
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 19, 2008 7:42 am PT
Review:  I will state this at the start. If you absolutely hated Oblivion you probably aren't going to enjoy 
 Fallout 3, as much of the gameplay is very similar. However, if you were a fan of Oblivion, or 
 if you perhaps might have enjoyed it except for some issues here and there, odds are you're going 
 to have a great time with Fallout 3.
  
  GAMEPLAY (8) - Much has been discussed over the gameplay of Fallout 3, and while it's not on the 
 level of Gears of War it actually does a nice job that stays pretty entertaining. I will say that 
 using guns works much better than using a bow and arrow in Oblivion. You have the basic ability 
 of pressing the RT to shoot, and while it's a bit loose it doesn't take long to get used to it. 
 The big deal here is the VATS system, which lets you pause the action and pick which body part 
 you want to shoot at, along with also letting you know the chances you have of hitting each part. 
 This works well in crippling the enemy, for example if they are using a gun you can target their 
 weapon and knock it away from them or target their arm and cut down their accuracy. Or if they 
 use melee weapons target their legs to slow them down to a crawl so you can finish them off before 
 they reach you. You have a limited amount of VATS before it has to replenish itself, though it 
 varies depending on the weapon you're using. So it becomes a matter of using VATS and then regular 
 shooting while the VATS refills. It doesn't take long to get used to and the slo-mo cinema of your 
 shots are gruesomely hilarious. Like Oblivion there is a main quest but also many sidequests presented 
 to you. For the most part these sidequests were quite interesting as they had you exploring the 
 American wasteland, which can be more fascinating than simply exploring a typical fantasy environment. 
 Interactions with NPCs are similar, walk up to someone and you'll have a few different responses 
 you can give which usually affect your Karma (good, neutral or bad) . As you gain experience there 
 will be many interesting choices you'll be able to make in how you want to level up your character, 
 not only in regards to combat but also in such areas as computer hacking, radiation resistance, 
 explosives etc.
  
  GRAPHICS (9) - Fantastic settings with a draw distance that goes on for miles while you're traveling 
 the wasteland. Indoor settings understandably do get a bit repetitive except for unique landmark 
 areas, but still have an impressive amount of detail. Character models can also repeat but overall 
 are improved from Oblivion. Only complaint is that there are times when very dark areas need to 
 be explored, and the lightsource you have equipped can be a bit weak.
  
  SOUND (9) - The voice acting is superb, and even better than Oblivion as they obviously had more 
 voice actors. There are a few recognizable voices here from actors such as Liam Neeson, Malcolm 
 McDowell and Ron Perlmen. Combat sound effects felt accurate, and the background music was subtle 
 but appropriate. Radio stations played early 50's style music which fit in with the atmosphere.
 
  
  Value (10) - By the time I stopped I had put in almost 50 hours, and looking at my map I know there 
 is still a lot of exploring to do throughout the wasteland. As was mentioned earlier there are 
 many, many sidequests available and most of them do involve doing something more interesting then 
 simple fetch quests. This is one of the few games where I'm looking forward to doing more exploring 
 even though I've finished the main quest.
  
  SUMMARY - Fallout 3 is certainly one of my favorite games from 2008. An entertaining combat system 
 and highly customizable leveling system makes Fallout 3 not only fun to play but also much more 
 tempting for replays than most other games. Highly recommended. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bluemacondo
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 19, 2008 4:11 am PT
Review:  ***Spoilers below... hard to talk about the game without them...****
  
  Talk about a drop in the bucket review; it's a sure thing this one will be buried and hidden in 
 the heaps of praise this game seems to be garnering in the community. Regardless, I sank 50 hours 
 of my life into it and I feel like a few words about the experience will help further validate 
 the enormous amount of time I've spent in post-nuke D. C.
  
  50 hours doesn't seem like much? I'm typically not the type to spend that much time on ANY game 
 at all. I put down the sticks for Shin Megami Tensei: Nocturne only because I began to fear for 
 my sanity as the time spent ticked off past 60. I'm usually more of a marathon gamer; spend a weekend 
 fueled by coffee, cigs, and snackables as I pounce on every boss to the finale. Then I put the 
 game down and move on.
  
  Obviously, Fallout 3 lends itself to this method. There is a clear cut path to the end, and you 
 can find it quicker than you might think. But the brilliance is the way something happens to you 
 on the way to the market for milk... as you begin your search for Dad you go strolling through the 
 ruins and the quests start to accumulate. The game delights in stringing you in different directions 
 as a direct reward for your exploration. Sometimes the wandering leads to non-quest locations, 
 with interesting items or the chance to save (or leave to rot) a wastelander being tortured by 
 mutants. Maybe you'll find Dogmeat, or a city of slimy slave traders, or a note describing a distant, 
 yet obscure, treasure. The organic nature of the game's quest system is one of its most commendable 
 features. I'm certain another playthrough for me will not end up being 2nd verse same as the first.
 
  
  The freedom in the game is generally thrilling, and you could call it a sandbox title, or maybe 
 a SandRPG to coin a term. Then again, it's rare to find a sandbox this epic in nature, as they 
 tend to be filled in with cheap plastic toys and maybe the occasional cat turd for variety. Yeah 
 yeah, you can't kill children. And occasionally there's a stutter or weird "glitch in the matrix" 
 that gives you a peek at the wizard. But there's so much substance that you tend to overlook these 
 hiccups. The plot is solid, the many NPCs usually have an interesting story to tell, and there 
 are plenty of pleasantly WTF moments. You really feel that there was a team behind the design and 
 script of this game, that all the many little fibers in the cloth were woven by many accomplished 
 hands. A synopsis describing the society in this virtual world would be impossible; to grasp its 
 design demands patient involvement. I don't think I've ever played in a more elaborate ecosystem, 
 or was so engaged in finding new locations. Whenever you run into a caravan wandering the smoldering 
 hills, or see a firefight in the distance that you didn't initiate, you feel the vibrancy of the 
 world winking at you. It's an intriguing peek at the potential of games like this.
  
  I never beat the old Fallouts but I certainly played them enough. I don't know if I see this game 
 as a true sequel, but maybe a spiritual one exploring similar themes. The comparisons to Oblivion 
 are obvious, but this is clearly the new, superior template that all SandRPGs should be looking 
 to. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chakkerz
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 19, 2008 1:37 am PT
Review:  Few games ... very few games can be played for 50 hours and without a shadow of can be played another 
 three or four times.
  
  I played a smart female, big on science and small guns. After that it just got more fantastic. 
 In short, nothing like me, except that I like science ... :) ... not that that really comes into 
 much in the game. Never the less, it turns out that was good because it meant i took after my in 
 game dad, and science made me good with computers (just like IRL) .
  
  Ok, so the game. The game can definitely be finished in under 10 hours, if you aren't into exploring. 
 If you aren't into exploring ... stop reading ... NOW, this game is not for you. It's as simple 
 as that, the game is for people that like to look around. I only spent 50 hours because some things 
 happened in my life that meant i suddenly have stacks more games to play and i needed some closure 
 on Fallout 3, it's how i am, nothing against the game. I figure to finish exploring there would 
 be about another 50 hours. Also there is the implication that the game should be playable as a 
 different characters in a completely different way. I played smart, small, tough and not big on 
 stealth. I'm thinking big and dumb, with a liking for big guns. Evil and violent, stealthy and 
 melee weapons (though getting swords is a pain ...) is another option. There are a fair few combinations 
 that could make the game a different experience. That said i don't think it will vary the experience 
 all that much ... but it is immersive, and you can play it again and again.
  
  Now don't get me wrong: I've played it once only. Few games, for me are intriguing enough that 
 i would play them again. In this category so far is Bioshock, Stalker, ... Fallout 3. I'm thinking 
 Oblivion, but in all honesty ... i haven't finished that yet ... i'm still exploring that one.
 
  
  Getting back to this game... Yeah there are issues:
  * the characters are ... dumb. Those that help you are ... dumb dumb dumb.
  * the writing is 
 ... at times disturbing. Not because it's necessarily bad but because ... it's just scary in every 
 way. The premise (the missions) , the world, the interaction between the two... 
  * there are crashes ... a fair few of those (usually during VATS) . 
  * the game ends... it doesn't 
 bother me ... but people whinge.
  
  Here is the good:
  * huge
  * bizarre characters that fit into the world
  * stacks to explore (again, if you don't want that, 
 this isn't the game for you)
  * stacks of replay value
  * non linear gameplay, if you have to achieve something, you can probably do it at least 3 ways 
 ... so odds are you will not get stuck
  * difficulty at normal is easy, but there are stacks of levels to choose so you're all good, regardless 
 of your skill level.
  * genuine choices. There is good vs evil, but you can do stacks in different ways. Generally this 
 involves good vs evil choices, but of course the there is the character you play.
  * plenty of variety in guns
  
  There is more of course, but that gives you a good overview.
 
  
  So in conclusion it comes down to this: Ignore the controversy, if you can't, don't get it: it's 
 nothing like Fallout 1 or 2. If you don't like RPGs, don't get it. If you think it's a shooter, 
 it ain't (Dead Space is awesome though) . This is all about exploring and saving the world (even 
 if it doesn't have that in the job description at the outset) . If you like RPGs, are willing to 
 accept the writing, which is great by game standards, poor by book standards, the get it. It will 
 of course be different for everyone, but nothing like it has been out all year, and it is great. 
 GOTY ... yeah most likely in the RPG arena, nothing else out this year is close. If you buy only 
 one game this year, it probably should be this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OracleXIII
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 18, 2008 10:15 pm PT
Review:  At first I wouldn't even care for this game, I didn't like the previous installments in the series, 
 so I was very skeptical about it. You know what convinced me to buy it? The slow motion targeting 
 system, and the effect it can have. What can I say, combat shotgun headshot from 2 feet away... 
 the beauty of the exploding head, eyeballs flying around. Yum. 
  
  I was also a little bit skeptical because I don't really like games that deal with issues such 
 as nuclear holocaust, the end of the world, and stuff like that. It lands too heavy on my psyche, 
 so to speak. But once I inserted that disc into my 360 I was sucked in for good. 
  In my opinion Fallout 3 has three major strengths and one flaw.
  Strengths:
  1. The overall 
 feel of the game. You can see, hear and feel that the world has ended, and the human race is struggling 
 to survive, eating radiated food, drinking the remains of clean water, building town-fortresses 
 to find shelter from the dangers of the Wastelands. It's very realistic, actually feels like the 
 world has ended, but somehow it keeps going. It is also very depressing, in a way to play this 
 game. At least for me, I felt really down after the first couple of hours of gameplay. But that's 
 just my sick mind playing tricks on me, pay no attention. 
  2. The game is even. It doesn't have that one point when it suddenly becomes very difficult after 
 being quite easy at the beginning. It gets harder as you progress, but it feels natural. And that 
 is a great achievement in my opinion. The game doesn't get frustrating, even when you have to repeat 
 a level. It gives you plenty of options how to do things.
  3. Everything that you do has some sort of an impact on the gameplay later on. Even really simple 
 things like firing a gun. Story-wise, you have to be careful what you do, because you can be sure 
 that the consequences of your actions will hunt you down. And that's what modern RPGs are all about 
 for me. The fact that you can actually see that your decisions in the game change and influence 
 the storyline. It makes it feel more real and helps you get in character. Fallout 3 certainly stands 
 out in this respect.
  
  The flaw:
  Well, as I said above the game has one flaw that can be kinda frustrating. The quest marker on 
 the radar. Yeah, it shows you the direction in which you have to go, but that's about it. Sometimes 
 it makes reaching your destination a real pain. I just spent two hours following the arrow walking 
 around sewers and raider hideouts just to find out that was not the way to go at all, because the 
 sewers suddenly end and there is no way out. So I had to go all the way back to the surface and 
 search for the correct route. And the game is huge, it really takes a while to get to undiscovered 
 locations. But thankfully this is the only flaw I found so far. 
  
  So why didn't I give Fallout 3 a perfect score? Not because of the green arrow on the radar. The 
 game just creeps me out. Creeps me out because it's not like the survival horror games which are 
 almost all the same. It creeps me out because something like this could actually happen. And it 
 can happen soon. That's the scary part of Fallout 3. You get to realize that the Wastelands, the 
 struggle for the survival of mankind can actually happen, if some psycho out there presses that 
 red button. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bmassarani
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 3, 2009 7:14 pm PT
Review:  Fact of the matter is that this game is AWESOME! The lone desolate soundtrack, mix of action / 
 roleplaying elements, story and created world truly make this game spectacular. The best part is 
 that even though the enemies and the players situation will never happen, the world that Bethesda 
 makes its totally believable, and starting with your birth you are instantly sucked right into 
 the game, making the 70+ hours of game play go by in a flash.
  
  Stepping out from Vault 101 into the Wasteland is truly one of the best experiences I have had 
 in a game yet! Bethesda did really well in making the world of Morrowind, but it pales in comparison 
 to Fallout. The graphics, sound, its all totally immersive. The feeling of walking into the Wasteland 
 for the first time, I can only imagine, is what you would feel if it were actually you personally 
 doing it. 
  
  Now here is the one thing that REALLY impressed me with this game:
  The way Fallout 3 is created you can literally play however you want. 30 hours into the game I 
 made the mistake of talking to a character that caused me to skip over one of the main quests. 
 After I completed the missed quests parameters I was awarded with my achievement and a quest complete 
 notification. The fact that you can play the game in whatever sequence you want really allows the 
 player to play the game as they want and not have to deal with any achievement consequences.
  
  Now there is one "bad" thing I will say about this game that MUST be taken with a grain of 
 salt. The combat outside of the V. A. T. S. targetting system feels clunky. Now this is something 
 that I cannot hold against the game mainly because of how cool V. A. T. S. is. Fallout 1 and 2 were 
 isometric PC games (a-la the Diablo series) . The only way that combat was done in the first 2 Fallouts 
 was with a more in-depth V. A. T. S. mode. So to me, not only is V. A. T. S. a really cool feature, but 
 it is also a throwback to the original games combat system.
  
  *Adding review for DLC*
  
  Operation Anchorage - 2-4 hours long makes it a little dissapointing. But the fact that you 
 get to go back and play a critical moment in Fallout history is pretty cool. It doesnt play like 
 the rest of Fallout 3 with more emphasis on action, but then again it is the way that Bethesda 
 makes a war campaign in the Fallout universe. I give it a 5/10.
  
  The Pitt - At 4 hours long (if you look for all the ingots) the Pitt is a lot better than OA. It 
 really reminds you of the initial experience of walking out of Vault 101. While there isnt a HUGE 
 amount of space to explore, the level creation is pretty cool and looking out across the Pittsburgh 
 skyline is cool and chilling at the same time. The story for the Pitt is also more along the lines 
 of what you have come to expect from Fallout 3. While the final choice doesnt really affect your 
 good / bad standing, it really makes you question what your motives are. I give it a 7.5/10 (its 
 not a full 10 simply because of length) .
  
  The Good - Everything. The world, story, game play, music, its all top notch.
  
  The Bad - 
 Combat outside of VATS is a little rough, but not terrible.
  
  The Ugly - While I have really liked the DLC it has been pretty short. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jthrockfan
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 18, 2008 4:22 pm PT
Review:  Okay, Just to start off... I am going to let you all know that I am a huge fan of Oblivion. So 
 my opinion is naturally going to be high becuase I love the way Bethesda had made their huge open 
 space RPGs. In fact... i think that the two games are the only RPGs that i really enjoy playing.
 
  
  The freedom is amazing, you really can do whatever you want, whenever you want and the game follows 
 along flawlessly. I have beat the extremely long game once and am working on beating it a second 
 time is a real jerk of a character. I must say that it really does change the feel of the game 
 so it's almost like that game has not ended yet. The graphics are not state of the art, but are 
 nothing to complain about.
  
  The only thing that I was a little annoyed about was the fact that the controls for shooting are 
 a little difficult. Its not too bad when you are trying to hit a slow moving target, but when they 
 see you and start running at you like mad, the controls are a little sluggish and there is no auto-aim 
 to help you out (besides VATS, but that wears off) .
  
  Overall i can sum it up by saying that this was probably the best 60 dollars I have spent in a 
 long time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rktPYZQShWz
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 18, 2008 2:29 pm PT
Review:  Fallout 3 is amazing I found it better than The Elder Scrolls IV Oblivion a game in which I loved. 
 
  
  The one thing I love so much about this game is how out of all of the Open Roleplaying Games I've 
 played this one has an amazingly fun landscape (Gotta love post-apocalyptic) . The VATS system is 
 probably one of the best features for combat I've seen in awhile. The gore in this game brings 
 the enjoyment level to the max when in combat because you'll feel so over thrilled when that annoying 
 enemy or that hated NPC gets his head blown right from his body by you. Many of the quests are 
 quite interesting such as "The Power of the Atom" and "The Replicated Man". The towns are very 
 unique a aircraft carrier, a strip mall, and the Museum of History. One of the few complaints I 
 had was all the bugs in this game. I had to restart my character because the storyline got stuck 
 and I was unable to progress. Other than a few other glitches and bugs Fallout 3 is one of the 
 must haves of the year and I look forward to spending at least twenty to sixty more hours playing 
 it.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: shugiosha
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 18, 2008 7:45 am PT
Review:  I admit it, I've played all the Fallouts... yes, even brotherhood. I went into this game with high 
 hopes and equal aprehension, but was pleasantly surprised. The repetitive similar but identicle 
 terrain and lack of humanity game the game a stark lonely feel you would hope for in a post apocolyptic 
 epic.
  
  While I was dissapointed by the raiders being auto aggro I felt the number of side quests, big 
 and small was a lovely surprise. My only two comments you can't read elsewhere in the reviews for 
 this game are these.... I wish it had a little more Fallout 2 humor, and I am pleased about the 
 20 level cap. Yes, I wish I could be more powerful, but this ensures me wanting to play through 
 again, and get the achievements I didn't while leveling up again instead of grinding onward to 
 level 50.
  
  Peace all, I'm back in game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: roosteraxe1
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 17, 2008 10:06 pm PT
Review:  Alright it is near impossible to sum up all of why this game is great. I'm not really sure where 
 to begin. Did you like Elder Scrolls 3 or 4? If yes then you should read no further and just go 
 get Fallout 3. To everyone else it may take some convincing. If an incredibly deep game with tons 
 of options, quests, sidequests and solutions to problems set in an amazing post-apocolyptic Washington 
 DC sounds like your cup of tea then by all means read no more and again, get this game. From character 
 creation to ability customization, weapon customization, problem solving, exploration and character 
 interaction this thing is deep. There's nothing quite like taking on a mission you previously failed, 
 or even failed an optional part of, in a completely new way or with a new arsenal. Which brings 
 up the combat. The ability to run and gun, while carefully weighing your AP for precise shots and 
 even incorporating stealth keeps things interesting even at your 500th shoot out. Strategically 
 targeting body parts to cripple your foes helps take some of the heat off in sticky situations. 
 Although i found that generally letting enemies get a little closer and just using head shots was 
 the most effective strategy. And the thrill of beheading foes never gets old. Neither does the 
 fact that you can do so with pretty much everybody. You'll likely often find yourself saving your 
 game just so you can kill that townsperson that was a total jerk to you and just reload afterward. 
 The thrill of watching their smug head roll in slo-motion is always fun. Getting the mess blasted 
 outta you by the towns guards isn't though. Hence the reload. And much like I just rambled on about 
 unimportant parts of the game, so too will you find yourself constantly wandering off the quest 
 path you're on just to check something or other out. Be it an abandoned schoolhouse, or just the 
 wreckage of some park, it's easy to forget about the family you're supposed to be saving from slavers 
 because something caught your eye. There is much more I could tell you of this game, but I'd rather 
 get back to it to play through again. I just know there's dozens of things I missed or can do differently. 
 Buy it. Play it. You'll see what I mean. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sonicare
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 17, 2008 2:14 pm PT
Review:  Fallout 3 is the long awaited next installation in the Fallout series (which was itself the spiritual 
 successor to Wasteland) . A long time in coming, many diehard fans of the Fallout series were nervous 
 as to how Bethesda would handle the franchise. Fortunately for them and all of us, Bethesda mostly 
 delivers a great and worthy successor.
  
  Set in a futuristic post apocalypitc United States, the Fallout series deals with mankind's attempt 
 at survival and rebirth. Fallout 3 shifts the action from the west coast, to the Washington, DC 
 area. True to past form, you take the role of a vault dweller entering the wasteland. Prior to 
 the nukes flying in WW3, several underground safehavens, known as vaults, were built to ensure 
 mankind's survival. Events quickly transpire in the vault that force your character out into the 
 nuclear charred wasteland of Washington, DC.
  
  Unlike the past versions, Fallout 3 plays from a first person perspective - though you can shift 
 into a pseudo third person view. However, unlike most FPS, Fallout 3 has strong rpg elements. Using 
 a fun tutorial interface at the beginning of the game, you determine what level your character's 
 baseline attributes are: Strength, Intelligence, Agility, Endurance, Perception, Charisma, and 
 Luck. Each of these attributes affects various aspects of gameplay. For instance, strength determines 
 how much weight you can carry and how much damage you do in melee, endurance determines how much 
 health and how much radiation resistance you have, and so forth. These values do not change with 
 levelling up - so choose wisely. However, there are a few items and perks in the game that can 
 increase these scores. 
  
  Your character also has many skills that help determine how well he/she performs at various tasks. 
 Categories include small guns, big guns (rocket launchers, flame thrower, etc.) , energy weapons, 
 lockpicking, speech, barter, sneak, science, repair, melee, unarmed, explosives etc. These skills 
 are all influenced by your attributes, but you can also add points to them as you level up or as 
 you discover certain items or books. The higher your score, the more proficient you are with the 
 corresponding task. You won't have enough points to max out all the skills, so the player will 
 have to determine which route they'd like. You can play as a stealth character, an upclose brawler, 
 etc. Certain skills such as speech or high repair/lockpick can help you avoid brawls altogether.
 
  
  Finally, at each level, you are granted a set of perks from which to choose from. Each perk grants 
 your character a special ability or a boost to one or more of their skills or attributes. The incredible 
 amount of variety in this system will allow the player to play through the game multiple times 
 with very different styles.
  
  Combat comes in 2 distinct flavors. You can play the more traditional FPS style - real time combat. 
 Move, dodge, and attack. Or you can use the VATS system. It's a throwback to the original turn 
 based combat system. It pauses the games and allows you to specifically target different parts 
 of your enemy's body - depending on the weapon you select. Depending on your agility, skills, and 
 some perks, you have a certain amount of action points. These are spent in selecting attacks and 
 other actions during VATS. Once you have used up all your action points, you hit the start button 
 and go. A slow motion, pseudo real time, sequence then follows. It makes for some cool scenery 
 depending on the type of weapon you use and what enemy you are facing. Body parts and other things 
 often explode or go flying across the room. Although not as slick as some of the current FPS, the 
 combat system gets the job done. It is an action rpg, after all. . . .
  
  Like most Bethesda products, the game world is both incredibly large and incredibly open ended. 
 You can play any style you want - as a ruthless cuthtroat mercenary or as a saint of the wasteland. 
 The characters you encounter will often react to you based on your past behavior. The main storyline 
 is actually quite good given the free ranging style, but somewhat short. However, you would be 
 doing yourself a serious injustice if you just played the main storyline. The world of Fallout 
 3 is enormous and you could spend over 100 hours exploring each little area of it. There are literally 
 tons of sidequests, easter eggs, unique encounters, etc. to keep you entertained. True to Bethesda 
 form, there's also more than one way to accomplish your task. Depending on your preference, many 
 situations will let you go in guns blazing or find another, less confrontational solution to the 
 problem.
  
  Now to the bad stuff - bugs. To be fair, any game with this kind of size, complexity, and open 
 endedness is bound to have some bugs. Fallout 3 certainly does. Most of them are not that bad, 
 but there are a few that can be game killers. I experienced several bugs during my first play through 
 - enough where I deciced to check out Fallout's official forums for help. Apparently, I am not 
 alone. Many people had noted similar problems and frustrations. The type of platform did not matter 
 - they were common on the PC, the 360, and the PS3. Some of the issues had to do with performance, 
 but that usually could be fixed by cleaning out your cache. Other bugs dealt with specific quests 
 or NPCs. Usually reloading from an earlier save or autosave would fix those. For instance, sometimes 
 certain dialogue did not happen, certain items were not given, etc.
  
  Most of those bugs were annoying but not deal breakers. The freezing issue was a little different. 
 From what I experienced, freezes were not random, they were specific. There were some specific 
 areas on the map I just could not enter. If I went into a certain area, my game would freeze and 
 I would have to turn the console off. No matter what way I approached the area, the game would 
 freeze. This was constant and 100% repeatable. Fortunately for me, the area did not involve any 
 elements from the main storyline so I could complete the game. I was unable to do 2 sidequests, 
 however, as they contained elements in that area. These freeze areas seemed to vary per person 
 and possibly per game. Some people were not able to finish there game because the freeze zone was 
 in an essential area. Not everyone experiences the freezing bug, but it seemed to be a fairly common 
 occurrence for many people on the forums.
  
  In a game of this size and scale, some bugs are inevitable. Hopefully Bethesda comes up with a 
 fix/patch for the freezing issue and also some of the more annoying bugs in the game. I hate to 
 criticize them, but this issue certainly could ruin someone's game. It would be awful to sink over 
 40+ hours into the game only to find that you can not complete it due to a bug.
  
  Overall, this game was a great experience. It certainly kept me glued to my couch for many hours 
 and I'm sure that most rpg fans will have a blast. However, Bethesda certainly needs to fix the 
 major glitches in this game before I can give my full hearted recommendation of this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OrthodoxBigJ
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 17, 2008 1:19 pm PT
Review:  All you bums that call yourself gamers cause the game is too hard or i cant find any sidequests 
 why would you even think of giving this game a bad review just because it actually gives you the 
 freedom that all these other games promise but never deliver! I was so exited for fable two it 
 was fun until you finished the story at most 4-5 hours to finish the incredibly weak story with 
 the ending where hey i can get my sister back nope think again you get a letter a freakin letter!!!!! 
 peter screwed me again i spare my sister and never see her again anyways in the first fable i bring 
 her back to life only for her to be where? a forest i cant reach! fallout gives you the ultimate 
 freedom to explore every nook and cranny of pretty mush everything! fable oh lets go to the next 
 area oh whats this it was 25 hours and 50 miles later as it says on a loading screen oh that was 
 fun!!!! dont get me wrong though i really liked fable i just didnt like fable twos weak story craptastic 
 ending and a liitle bigger than fables level design i mean really there are so many bugs glitches 
 and crazy crap on fable how are complaining about this game????!!!!?!?!? my wives dissapear leaving 
 the kids behind not even in the same area still suckin out my money but theyre gone nowhere to 
 be found! i have a duplicate wife from when i moved one into a new house it glitched and said i 
 had two! but back to fallout its a great game with plenty to do and your just angry cause you beat 
 it in a weekend and sold it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drakonum
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 17, 2008 10:44 am PT
Review:  bethesda do it again with this game its enourmus and briliant, the best part is that u can do watheever 
 u decide i love this, and the unique characters they expresions and the felling of the postapocaliptic 
 life, the story and the gameplay are so fantastic it esy to do and the VAULT method its so great 
 u can see how to cut memebers of the body u cant get bored there is a lot of things to do and see 
 just like Oblivion but in the future, steal or not to steal things be bad, evil or good to the 
 others, create your character what do you want to be sepecialised master the skills kill evryone 
 in the game if u want to know morw about he history u can hack in to computers and see whats going 
 on, its the perfect combination rpg elements with a fps gameplay, and thats great because in the 
 most of the fpd games are linear and this its not the case whatever u do have repercutions watch 
 what are u decide to do, i recomend playing this game almost 2 times ore more be bad or good 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TTDog
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 17, 2008 5:30 am PT
Review:  Any game which gives you the option to make a moral choice between good and evil always has one 
 thing going against it no matter how you may be as a person, it's always so much more fun to be 
 evil.
  
  In Fallout 3 this always makes the game considerably easier in the opening stages, with stores 
 and merchants not giving a toss where goods are from there's no problem shifting anything you've 
 stolen, thus any shortfalls on the cash side can be remedied with a quick bit of thievery.
  
  Those playing the game like a saint will constantly find themselves running low on ammo, serviceable 
 weapons and weak, creakingly bad, armour as cash can be hard to come by, yes you can do some basic 
 fetch and carry side quests to gain experience and cash, but these will inevitably involve some 
 gun play and anything you gain from the quest is spent replenishing supplies or repairing equipment.
 
  
  This can be off putting at first, until you progress to level 6 or so the game can be a struggle, 
 but if you persevere you'll be rewarded in spades.
  
  The V. A. T. S. combat system is a god send, as every shot you fire is governed by Role Playing mechanics 
 and even the best of shots can miss the target if the game decides you didn't roll a high enough 
 number you miss, annoyingly this can even happen at short range.
  
  What V. A. T. S. also gives you is some glorious moments of slow motion decapitation as a bullet slams 
 home with enough force to blow your opponents limbs in every direction you can imagine, its moments 
 like these, when you finish a Super Mutant for example, that offer immense satisfaction, and you'll 
 never get tired of seeing the limbs fly.
  
  This is lucky as you'll be doing this a lot, a typical game will see you kill hundreds of creatures 
 and people, whether they deserved to die is up to you and how you're playing but be warned acting 
 like Satan incarnate will have repercussions later in the game.
  
  The story is a little short, were you to rush through the main plot line you could probably finish 
 the game is a weekend, but, like Oblivion it's much more fun to wander off the beaten track and 
 explore, there's a whole landscape filled with odd balls to meet and serve, hidden gems to discover 
 and bobble-heads to collect and help boost your stats beyond the basics.
  
  Each level you reach offers the usual rise to your skill levels, but also a perk that enables some 
 previously un-realised special ability which can be chosen to suit the game you intend to play, 
 gun crazy players can boost their accuracy or firepower, and the bloody mess perk virtually guarantees 
 a slow-mo decapitation scene.
  
  A real star of the game is Vault Boy, the cartoon face of Vault-Tec who's appearance will be enough, 
 at times, to raise a smile as he illustrates every skill or ability you collect, appears on advertising 
 boards and who is model for all the bobble-heads you collect, the nerd rage perk offering a splendid 
 example.
  
  As stated you can play through the game in a very straight line by just following the main plot, 
 but that would deprive you of some excellent touches and scenario's, to play is to explore, if 
 you're not into exploring then this is probably nothing more than a weekend rental and as you 
 struggle through the early part of the game you may wish you'd rented the game first but keep 
 plugging away, and exploring everything you come across and the game opens up to you that you'll 
 realise that what you have here is a genuine cIassic of the genre, and a great way to spend a couple 
 of months.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: bgkdog101
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 16, 2008 5:27 pm PT
Review:  If you don't own this game and you still clicked my review shame on you! But because I am a nice 
 guy here is my review of Fallout 3.
  
  When this game was about to be released there was much tension between Fallout fan boys and Fable 
 fan boys, and I will admit that I was more interested in getting Fable due to TLC being my favorite 
 game and probably still is. Well, obviously I wound up getting them both and while Fable 2 is an 
 amazing game, Fallout is so much more immersive and feels much more natural. 
  
  Many people describe Fallout 3 as Oblivion with guns and I will admit that I agree with these people. 
 This is not a bad thing though! The story and many other critical aspects separates itself from 
 being an Oblivion knock-off. 
  
  The graphics and colors are very well done for being a post-apocalyptic world (I was afraid I would 
 be bored with nothing but blandness throughout the game) . 9/10
  
  The sound is top notch and really sucks you in. Muy bueno Bethesda 10/10
  
  The controls and 
 combat are beautifully done with the V. A. T. S feature, but at times it can feel a little bit sluggish. 
 No biggie though 9/10
  
  Voice acting is amazing and some of the characters really come to life with their voice acting, 
 not to mention I have had some pretty good laughs so far. 10/10
  
  Replay value is pretty good, but due to the massive size of this game I would guess that most people 
 would only play through twice (once Good and once Evil) . This isn't a bad thing though. 9/10
  
  Overall this game is nothing short of amazing and would not surprise me if it won GOTY. My 
 only disappointment was that there isn't a continuation of the game after the story ends. Must 
 buy. So go on, get this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: airsoftmanic
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 16, 2008 10:27 am PT
Review:  story:
  the basic plot of the story is that you are forced out of vault 101 and forced to make your own 
 destiny out in the wastelands. thats about as much as im giving you since the rest is spoilers.
 
  
  Gameplay:
  if you've played Oblivion (which im assuming you have) then its basically that with a few additions. 
 
  the big addition is guns. lots of guns. big guns. and this obviously puts more emphasis on the 
 long range combat but there are CQB melee weapons that are pretty cool like the chainsword and 
 the power-fist. the most unique gameplay mechanic is the V. A. T. S targeting system which pauses 
 time when activated and lets you target specific body parts on individual enemies. this is very 
 useful as it allows you to take out lots of little swarming enemies with single shots or allows 
 you to get more shots on target on the bigger enemies.
  the game still has the same little niggles that blighted Oblivion but performs solidly.
  my main 
 (and only) concern is that it doesnt encourage you to do any side quests. ive completed the game 
 in just over 17 hours with very little deviation from the main quest but whereas in Oblivion where 
 random people would walk up to you with side quests, none of this happens unless you walk around 
 for a considerable time trying to find side quests (or use the guide to find them) .
  
  Graphics:
  very proficient for the game that it is but the same could be said of any game that 
 has come out in the past year or so. there are a few graphical glitches (mainly on the puppet that 
 is seen when in third person) but which could easily be corrected in patches.
  
  Overall:
  a great game to have but effort is needed in trying to stay off the main storyline 
 and racking up the same amount of hours that i did in Oblivion.
  This game would also benefit from a few DLC packs like more buildable weapons and a shivering isles-esque 
 expansion as it would considerably broaden the game and make it more fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lzergio
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 16, 2008 9:38 am PT
Review:  I'd been hunting this game for about three or four months before it went out (I'm not a fallout 
 fan boy who could hit Bethesda CEO just to make them do fallout 3 ) and after getting a copy of 
 this game, I must admit I was quite impressed. From the first seconds of the game, when you are 
 asked to create your character to the point you leave the vault is just amazing, and I've to say, 
 graphically awesome too.
  The game is so beautifully detailed, that you could spend hours and hours walking only to discover 
 all things and see how cool they look.
  The game's not mainly a horror title, however, there are parts it'll make you feel tense, specially 
 when you have only 2 very small guns and you realize you entered a place where enemies are much 
 stronger than you, and it's very dark too.
  Music, as far as I'm concerned, is exquisite, old songs mixed perfectly with in game sound effects 
 create an atmosphere that will make you feel like you're in a movie.
  When I turn on this game for the second time (first time I only got out the vault) i wanted to 
 play one hour, I then realized I'd been playing for almost 3 hours and never felt the time, that's 
 the way this game works, has so many things to do that you'll spend long hours playing and having 
 fun.
  This is a game I deeply recommend for anyone who likes shooters and RPG and has enough patience 
 and time to discover many many things. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZJM9
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 16, 2008 8:46 am PT
Review:  First of all, I've only played this game 10-20 hours because I just got it. It is definately worth 
 spending more time than that. I don't know how many of you have played Oblivion. If you have, like 
 me, then you probably thought that Bethesda could never out do themselves. Right? Well, they broke 
 their standards by ALOT. 
  The first 30-40 minutes are a little dull and slow moving, sort of like the "tutorial level" in 
 Oblivion. You're still in Vault 101 and you see you''re child in a series of "flashbacks". You 
 will also develop good, bad, or neutral karma. It's sort of like in Fable, only your appearance 
 won't vary. But on to the real game.
  When you step out of the small wooden door beyond the Vault door, you will see a massive land. 
 Only one thing... It's a nuclear holocaust. It was ugly that it was beautiful. You can even see 
 the Washingon monument in the distance, which is slightly blown apart. There is a nearby settlement 
 called Megaton. (This is when the creativity starts to really kick in.) The town is built of scrap 
 metal! The houses will have pieces of huge, jagged sheet metal on them. The walkways are various 
 metals. (One of the "bridges" is actually the hull of a schoolbus.) And there is an Atomic bomb 
 in the center of town. And there are people there!
  So, I went into one of the stores, the general store. I was asked to go to a Super-Duper Mart, 
 which was about 3-5 real life minutes away from the town I was in. When I got there, I heard a 
 gun battle going on and since it was nighttime, I saw flashes of light. When I got closer, I saw 
 several bandits, dead. So, naturally, I searched them to see what I could recover. To my wonderful 
 surprise, I found a hunting rifle. Also, I found some weak bandit armor that proved to be useless. 
 So I equipped the rifle and went inside. I won't tell you the extent of what I did because I don't 
 want to ruin it, but I came out with a TON of weapons. (A sawed-off shotgun, an assault rifle, 
 a Chinese pistol, a couple of frag grenades, and a laser pistol. Plus ammo to boot.)
  This is a good example of how the game plays out. You can go into a random house and find useful 
 things. I went into a house to find health and I came out with a Chinese assault rifle. (What the 
 game's deal with Chinese weapons is, I don't know.)
  There are other weapons, too. Two weapons I found unique were a police baton and a pool cue. Not 
 exactly the most effective, but interesting to use, nonetheless.
  You're probably wondering what you can wear, right? I only know a few things but I'll let you know 
 what I've seen. There is leather armor, combat armor (it is what the mercenaries in shops wear) , 
 I've seen a radiation suit, you start out with a jumpsuit with 101 on its back, the bandits have 
 several styles of armor you can take, and I've even seen a hockey mask. There is obviously many, 
 many more items than this.
  All in all, Fallout 3 is a beautiful game that is fun and has a good storyline to it. The voice-acting 
 is done well, graphics will blow your mind, the story is pretty good, good variety of equipment, 
 and a post-apocalyptic "paradise" to free-roam in make this game worth your time and money. Check 
 it out, especially if you were a fan of Oblivion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LittleMorganite
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 16, 2008 7:42 am PT
Review:  I think that Fallout 3 has a great story, immersing game-play and a simple but clever idea. The 
 amount of gameplay is huge with tones of side-quests and a decent main story. The one annoyance 
 is that you can't continue after finishing the main story but other than that I think it will become 
 a classic and has beaten The Elder Scroll IV: Oblivion hands down! I have told many friends of this 
 game and all that have bought it have said its one of the best they have played in a long time. 
 Any one that has played this game has given it a thumbs up and if you havn't you probably don't 
 know anything. If you want a game that is thrilling, engaging and immensly fun then this is it. 
 If you havn't played any RPG style games in a while then this game will get your RPG taste buds 
 the sensation of a life time. 10/10! A must Buy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: USAFA2006
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 15, 2008 11:30 pm PT
Review:  Fallout 3 is one of the top 3 games that I have played this year. I'm still not decided if it deserves 
 my top spot or not, but its in the top 3 for sure. Overall the game is so well put together and 
 so well suited to let you play as you want, it makes it enjoyable multiple times. Those that rag 
 on the combat system obviously don't get the point of VATS. This is not an FPS rpg. If you try 
 to play it like one you'll fail and be frustrated. The whole point is to USE the VATS system because 
 that is how the game was meant to be played. Granted it might be easier to just head shot some 
 guys from long range than VATS but the majority of your combat is in VATS. It totally changes the 
 feel of an RPG from real time to turn based without feeling turn based.
  
  The story is also decent too. However it isn't the overall the story but how you can play through 
 the story that is the stronger part. You can end up skipping parts of the story just randomly exploring 
 the map. Now some of you might not like this, but I find it fascinating that through your own free 
 will you can advance the story how you want and not be stuck in a linear plot in an "open" world. 
 And the story has enough in it to make you want to play through the end, regardless of what parts 
 you do/don't see.
  
  As part of any Bethesda game, the voice acting is superb. And though it isn't always perfectly 
 in tune w/ the characters mouths, the variance of voices throughout the entire game is just fantastic. 
 It really helps to create a huge game world where you don't have to listen to the same voice 5 
 times over and helps uniquely create locations and people. The music is also fantastic and picks 
 up at the tense moments and drops off to howling wind or a faint radio signal at other times. Brilliant!
 
  
  Overall this is a game you MUST play if you are an RPG fan, an Elder Scrolls fan, or just love 
 to pour in 30+ hours to an RPG. You can easily lose yourself in the DC Wasteland for hours at a 
 time and Fallout 3 will always leave you wanting to come back for more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brenden403
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 13, 2009 9:21 am PT
Review:  If you have never heard of the fallout series than thats kinda odd since every fallout game was 
 popular in it's time including this one, but if you're tired of companies not putting any care 
 into thier games and you're looking for an awesome game, look no further.
  
  The graphics look almost real sometimes and the sound effects are almost limitless so it's not 
 like one of those games were you do something twice and it makes the same sound.
  
  You will never get bored of the game play since it's so fun and theres so many side quests. Also 
 it's never too easy or too hard because you can always change the difficulty.
  
  The controlles are perfect. There's a hot key, Y is jump, A is activate/action, RT is shoot/attack, 
 there just fine. The controlles might be difficult for people new to RPG's but again, you can change 
 the difficulty until you get the hang of them. Also theres something new to the series called V. A. T. S. 
 It sort of "stops time" (it doesn't really stop time it's just hard to explain) . When you use V. A. T. S. 
 you have to target a body part of the enemy and select how many times you want to shoot ect. However 
 you cant just shoot as many times as you want in V. A. T. S. You have action pionts. (Fallout fans 
 will know what I'm talking about) .
  
  Pros
  - V. A. T. S. is fun and lets you obliterate your enemies in slow motion
  - The game lets you customize 
 your character to a high degree
  - Karma system lets you be good or evil
  - Skills and perks are always fun to choose when leveling up
  - Lots of possabilities and a huge 
 map
  - Great Game all together
  Cons
  - not many boss fights
  - no multiplayer
  
  
  
  This game is amazing. I give Fallout 3.
  
  Gameplay 19.5/20
  Story 14/15
  Graphics/sound 
 9.5/10
  Controlles 10/10
  Moneys Worth 4/5
  
  Overall: 95%
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: timmytpot
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 15, 2008 11:52 am PT
Review:  Im about 7 hours into this game as I write.
  
  My first impressions were that it was relatively poor. Im new to 'next gen' games & havnt played 
 many games for years. I really did not like the horrible drab look of the environment and was confused 
 by how many things were involved in getting to grips with the game.
  
  Things are different now !! The battle system is wicked. Im a huge fan of doom and final fantasy/squaresoft 
 turn based battles. This provides a bit of both. Some of the slow motion battle scenes are amazing, 
 loving the strategic element of, for example targetting an enemies legs to stop him getting to 
 you, or shooting his weapon from his hands to buy some time etc etc.
  
  Iv got my head around the quests & battles now & loving the game. Even the demolished landscape 
 has absorbed me into the world. Its a challenging game and I like that.
  
  I paid 10 extra with the xbox360 for this game. nice. I would recommend it to RPG heads.
  
 
  peace out. Tpotcardiff. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wull1977
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 15, 2008 6:48 am PT
Review:  How do I begin to approach Fallout 3? Perhaps with a little history.
  
  I first played Fallout back in 1998 when I picked it up from a bargain bin at my local Dixons 
 for 1. I was blown away from the very start and absolutely loved, chasing every quest and scavenging 
 everything I possibly could in the limited time the game gave you to save Vault 13. Fallout 2 I 
 got pretty soon after release and loved it just as much, despite its far more obtrusive pop culture 
 references that really detracted from the whole experience. Fallout Tactics, I never got round 
 to because it sounded like too much of a departure and Brotherhood of Steel on the Xbox was a flat 
 out plain travesty and is 3 hours of my life I will never get back.
  
  There are Fallout fans out there who believe because they have been there from the start that Bethesda 
 has stabbed them through the heart and then teabagged their twitching corpses by releasing an FPS 
 Fallout that completely misses the setting and humour of the originals. These people dont 
 seem to remember the fairly sombre and quite depressing tone of first game which worked far better 
 than the irreverence of the sequel. Fallout 3 nails the tone pretty well and although there are 
 plenty of film references, they are done far more subtly than in many games. Also claiming this 
 game is an FPS would be akin to calling the originals scrolling shoot em ups. Fallout 3 
 feels a little too clunky to ever be called an FPS, but then a little to immediate to be an RPG. 
 The biggest question is - Why the necessity to pigeonhole the game into a certain game type? 
 It shouldnt matter if they released a rhythm action game based on Fallout as long as it 
 sticks to the story and setting and is actually a good game!
  
  But back to the beginning of the game. The initial stages of the game are superbly executed showing 
 your birth and development before the game kicks in. I imagine this will deter quite a lot of people, 
 but it does set up some very important relationships in the game. Despite some shoddy voice work 
 by Liam Neeson (sorry, but I am not a fan  I find him very wooden  also, more on 
 the voice acting later) , there is enough of an implied relationship to make you care about the 
 quest to find him during the following stages. Following the main quest and nothing but would lead 
 this to be a very, very disappointing game. Running directly through the main quest should take 
 less than 10 hours, especially with arrows pointing to your next objective. Due to this pace, and 
 what I feel was an anti-climactic battle and endgame it was a bit of a damp squib also a couple 
 of non-twists (particularly the identity of Eden, the Enclave President) sort of make you wonder 
 what the point is other than an extended reference to the TV show Jeremiah. Even some of the main 
 sidequests are a bit easy due to the arrows pointing where you need to go, but on the positive 
 side, you are kept focussed and on track, so to be fair, I dont know how I would remedy 
 this. The inability to play on after the end of the game, no matter what you choose to do is fairly 
 annoying and raises another annoyance.
  
  I would very much liked to have seen profiles for saving, because I have saved my level 20 good 
 character right before starting the final mission, however, when I stared a new evil character, 
 it was on the same list as the good characters saves. This wouldnt be too much of 
 a problem, but I find that when loading and saving, there is a fair bit of lag so loading the list 
 takes a good 30 seconds sometimes and then appears frozen for up to 10 seconds after that. During 
 this time it registers controller responses then plays them out, so I did lose a level 9 evil character 
 when I went back to my good one. It was the same with Oblivion, so surprising that it hasnt 
 been fixed.
  
  So then why have I rated the game so highly? Well, because of the exploration. The graphics are 
 frankly amazing. Not so much the character models which lack a certain something, but I cant 
 quite place it  but, the scenery and the towns and the metros Superb. The mood, tone 
 and lighting in all the areas are absolutely pitch perfect. Because of this, the feeling of discovering 
 new things and places is unbeatable. Little things that should be impossible to find, like Rockopolis. 
 Or the computer in the wrecked farmhouse that tells of a small group that had left one of the Vaults. 
 Or the school that hides raiders trying to tunnel into Vault 101. Or one of possibly hundreds of 
 little things. There are so many tiny stories told in tableaux, like the skeleton found on a pier 
 clutching a teddy bear surrounded by empty beer bottles. These are the things that bring the Fallout 
 world to life, ironically  the stories of people who died over the years from the days the 
 bombs dropped and covering the intervening 200 years. Essentially, you can play the game as a scavenger 
 and explorer whereby you choose an area to scout out and return with your entire carry allowance 
 filled with items to make weaponry and goods for sale or to make a stash of spare weapons for repairing 
 your favourites. It is incredibly engaging, more so than the main quest. I have spent at least 
 50 hours doing just this and I find it very satisfying and strangely relaxing. I would very much 
 like to see Bethesda create a flat out exploring game at some point (a highly unlikely proposition, 
 I know!) because that is what has engaged me in all their games I have played.
  
  The VATS system is well implemented as well, but can feel a little bit like cheating until the 
 first few times you are killed by a single rocket to the face or a car exploding beside you that 
 you didnt even know was there, let alone on fire. Enemies are fairly accurate at a pretty 
 long range, and frankly you need all the help you can get. And yes, to my shame, I find that popping 
 peoples heads off or open or whatever to be incredibly cool.
  
  I would very much have liked to have seen a greater survival element to the game, for example a 
 hunger/thirst/tiredness meter as well as rad meter this would have led to a better balanced and 
 more interesting angle than kill things, loot them, spend all your money on Stimpacks. It would 
 have made the balancing of hit points for rads far more meaningful. Also the fact that ammo and 
 meds weigh nothing means that you can do the rounds of the merchants after a few forays and make 
 a ton of caps and Stimpacks. It would have been better had these things had a weight, even 0.1 
 of a pound. At the moment, my main character is carrying 300+ Stimpacks and 30+ mini-nukes. Yeah, 
 I know I could leave them all behind, but it is too tempting to be utterly prepared! Even the option 
 to toggle these options off and on for casual players It would have been amazing.
  
  Which brings me sadly to the sound. Sound effects are just fine. I turned the in game music off 
 for a better feeling of isolation, but the music from the radios is fairly creepy and the juxtaposition 
 of their jaunty 40s and 50s stylings with the desolate wasteland works very well. Guns sound like 
 they should. The voice acting is really quite bad. I feel awful saying it, because its not 
 entirely the voice artists fault, its just that the faces very rarely match the emotion 
 of the voice actors. The character Moira Brown however, is supposed to be amusing and quirky, but 
 instead makes me want to kill. Not only is her chirpy voice incredibly forced and 
 patronising as if shes talking to a retarded child, but it has been recorded horribly and 
 sound louder and a bit tinnier than other dialogue. That would be fine, but you take part in one 
 of the biggest quest chains for her with her hilarious dialogue ripping through you 
 like a rusty chainsaw. There is no one worse than her in the game but some comes close. To be fair 
 on them, there are only about 4 of them voicing about a hundred characters The only good 
 point to this is that the fact that your character has no voice is not a problem because if Bethesda 
 OKed these chaps, imagine what you COULD have sounded like? Hayden Christiansen perhaps? Not on 
 my watch. Highlights are Malcolm McDowell as John Henry Eden and Ron Perlman as the narrator, both 
 of whom are absolutely superb.
  
  So, then All in all, a bit of a mixture, really. If you are only playing for the story  
 dont. You will be seriously disappointed. It might sound like a clich, but Fallout 3 should 
 really be seen as more of an experience rather than as a game and if youre willing to give 
 yourself over to it, it is an incredibly rich and rewarding experience at that.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: whitehot555
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 14, 2008 9:41 pm PT
Review:  Sorry to say, if I shoot a human in the face with an assault rifle, they should go down... Targeting 
 mode makes things too impersonal and provides the player with "no skill needed" mentality. Press 
 a button, time stops, you can pick whatever body part you want to shoot. Do not buy if you want 
 a satisfying and high action game. Apart from that, everything that is customizable in the game 
 makes the player want to tinker with every item to make it their own and to make combinations that 
 will fit situations better than others. All and all i think its a rent before you buy, I did, and 
 returned it for something else within 2 days. However anyone looking for a immersive RPG will be 
 satisfied. I love the plot and the scenario but it just left me wanting a couple changes in order 
 to make it a perfect game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: benjy117
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 14, 2008 9:31 pm PT
Review:  Fallout 3 is a another great game coming from Bethesda. It's similiar to Oblivion only with guns. 
 It's really kinda like the opposite of Oblivion.. no lush green environment and this time it involves 
 guns. It was shorter than I expected I completed it within 17 hours. I worked on Oblivion alot 
 longer. The game's vat system is pretty kewl if you have a gun that's in good condition and your 
 health is ok. It does change the way the game is played in many ways. The creatures in the game, 
 at times does seem to be repetitive. The game ended when the main mission was done, unlike Oblivion. 
 Weird thing was the main mission didn't put you through alot of the map. I am now playing from 
 a saved before I completed the main part exploring the rest of the world. 
  
  The game is worth playing through. I expected a little more but sometimes I think I review games 
 too harsh. Oblivion was an awesome game and this one is almost on par. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jayfi33
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 14, 2008 6:28 pm PT
Review:  On my scale this game receives a 9.65
  
  If you like a game that holds your hand from start to finish and make all the choices for you then 
 you are going to be really disappointed with Fallout 3. You are going to be forced to make tons 
 of tough choices along the way. you will either end up with a halo over your head or a pitchfork 
 in your hand. Either way, you'll love every minute of it. 
  
  From the moment the game begins the world is pretty much your oyster. You are going to play the 
 game the way you want to. I enjoyed playing as a stealth character that used science and ranged 
 weapons to take down the baddies. You can play as a melee happy super-quick healer or a hero (or 
 antihero) that enjoys grenades, land mines and futuristic weapons who also likes to pick locks 
 in his spare time. I could go on an on. There are tons of different ways to skin the Fallout 3 
 cat. All are enjoyable. 
  
  The main quest can be finished in about 17-22 hours depending on whether or not you are good at 
 reading maps and understand the advantages of the leveling system. The side quests and map exploration 
 added up to about 45 hours of extra gaming for me and I'd say I discovered slightly more than half 
 of the world's locations and did a majority of the "major" side quests. The meat of the game is 
 in the exploring. This can easily be a 150 hour experience if you see it "all". If you dont do 
 the side quests you will miss out on many of the historic landmark DC settings which add a lot 
 of character to the otherwise bleak setting of the game. There are also some great challenges in 
 the off-the-beaten-path locales and some sweet items and weapons to find in those buildings/tunnels/warzones 
 as well. 
  
  the leveling system is where the game really shines. whenever you level you can allocate your points 
 to the skills you favor and then select a "perk" to further enhance your character. This is the 
 most agonizing and fulfilling part of the experience. there are a variety of ways to stack the 
 kind of skills you value. I always went for stealth and accuracy perks as it let my ninja-nerd 
 become more and more deadly as the game progressed. Leveling up has never been so satisfying. 
 
  
  combat is kind of a mixed bag. If you dont make use of the VATS system, which lets you target body 
 parts and do critical damage to yuor enemies, you will get your ass handed to you on a regular 
 basis. head shots pulled off in VATS are an awesome thing to behold. I wont ruin it for you here. 
 You are guaranteed to love it. 
  
  Enemies can run from mind numbingly easy to defeat, all the way to intimidating and  
 kind of difficulty. Some places you will not be able to navigate safely until you are a high level 
 character, which is good because it gives you something to shoot for. the game does a good job 
 at keeping you motivated. 
  
  The only negative I can really see is that the side quests outshine the main quest. I am sure I 
 am not the only gamer that feels this way. but this is a small gripe in an otherwise outstanding 
 gaming experience. 
  
  This is a great buy with something for everyone. Play as a hero or a villain - you cant miss with 
 this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jaybun3030
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 14, 2008 5:44 pm PT
Review:  First of all, let me start by saying I am usually an fps or sports gamer. The only rpg I really 
 played was FFVII. That was until I played Fallout 3. Even though I'm only a few hours into it, 
 I find myself constantly having to force myself to turn off my 360 and go to bed. Nearly everything 
 about this game is flawless. From the graphics to the eerie soundtrack (which is one of the best 
 I've heard since BioShock) this game is everything it was hyped up to be and more. What I love 
 most about this game is the replay value. In other words, you will be playing this game for a while, 
 and once you beat it, you will want to play through again. That's how awesome this game is. Everyone 
 at Bethesda who worked on this game deserve a pat on the back for a job well done. If you haven't 
 got this game, go get it RIGHT NOW!!! You won't be sorry. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bmsaareagles
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 14, 2008 4:55 pm PT
Review:  Fallout 3 is a massive RPG that puts you into a post apocoliptic world filled with death, treasures, 
 quests, and a great story. You play the role of a child who was born during a nuclear war. You 
 have spent all of your life in Vault 101 when your father leaves without a word. You escape the 
 vault to find an amazingly beautifull world. You get to custimize your character in many ways. 
 You can choose his skin color, his face features, as well as hair and facial hair. The game goes 
 even further by letting you choose different stats to give to your player in mant different catagories. 
 You can also change his look by what your character is wearing. You may also choose to make your 
 character a female or male. I dont want to spoil any of the quests but there are a wide range of 
 different quests and go along with a great story.
  
  The combat in this game feels real smooth. You can play from either a first person view or a third 
 person view. There are many different weapons to use, some of witch are super cool. My favorite 
 is the Fat Man witch is like a mini nuke. The aiming works great and you should not have any problems 
 with combat. The V. A. T. S system is a gift from god. When you activate the V. A. T. S system the game 
 pauses and shows a close up on the enemy you targeted. It then has all of the different body parys 
 and lists the % chance you have of hitting that part. Once you choose one and fire you get to watch 
 an awsome goory bloodbath of you nailing your enemy in the face.
  
  The graphics in this game are great. Its amazing how they can make sutch a big world look so good 
 in every aspect. The sunsets are priceless, the horizens are amazing and no matter how long you 
 walk, you will always see new places and amazing new sights. The day time is so clear and the night 
 time gives you a creepy but good sensation.
  
  Many people will try to compare Fallout 3 to Oblivion. It does have some of the same macanics but 
 Fallout 3 is an amazing game on its own. It has a great story that is both hopefull and sad, added 
 on with great custimization and gameplay, make this the perfect game and in my opinion game of 
 the year. This is a must buy for all 360 gamers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: phaedres7681
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 14, 2008 4:17 pm PT
Review:  This game is awsome in terms of art work and game play. Combat takes a little getting used to, 
 but once you do it's very saticfying. Espessuly while watching a raiders head go flying off in 
 slow moe. There are a number of glitches throughout the game though. Some are not that big of a 
 deal while others can down right anoying. There is deffinetly replay value here, and the one majore 
 thing wrong with the entire game is the fact that your level maxes out at level 20. Thought that 
 was a glitch at first, untill I called Bethesda up and they informed me that it wasn't. Bad move 
 Betheda!!! That one little point dam near ruined the whole game for me. This game is not quite 
 on the same level as the Elderscrolls games. I. E.- Arena, Daggerfall, Marowind, and Oblivieon. 
 But it is a nice step in a different direction while still incorporating a lot of the features 
 of the Elderscrolls games put into a futuristic setting. So if you can get past the glitches, and 
 the level 20 maxout; the game is well worth it. Oh, and a funny little note to end on. About a 
 year and a half ago or so I had written Bethesda a letter in which I said they sould do an Elderscrolls 
 style game only set in the futur with guns and what not, instead of swords and bows. Well... this 
 isn't quite what I had in mind but it's prity dam close. Who knows, maybe my letter gave them the 
 idear to do this game? Maybe not? For all I know they were already working on it when I sent that 
 letter. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kingotnw
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 13, 2008 6:30 pm PT
Review:  First off, I like this game a lot. I like the character development, I like the story line, I like 
 the graphics, I like thr risk vs reward while exploring, it is a great first person role playing 
 game. While it is not my favorite, it is one of the better ones this year. I have been looking 
 forward to this game for a long time. I am a fan of mature content in video games, a huge fan of 
 role playing games, and this one has not dissapointed in any department mentioned. 
  
  As it turns out though, one of the main things I Was looking forward to, the mature content, just 
 goes overboard in a few spots. Some of the subject matter and the dialogue is flat out disturbing. 
 I am not an overly sensitive person, but if you choose the way of the evil character you are going 
 to have a real hard time with it. I play "evil" in almost every game available to me, and I just 
 could not do it in this one. I'm not talking about the much publicisized bomb segment either, thats 
 nothign compared to some of the twisted things you will have to either do, or give NPC's the go 
 ahead to do if you want to go down that path. Is it evil? Sure, but I seriously question anyone 
 who doesn't have a hard time with some of the evil decisions and things that go in within the game. 
 For my taste, it could hev been toned down a hair...
  
  Onto my other problem with the game, the combat. Not that there is really anything wrong with the 
 combat system itself, it is satasfying to use and play with, but here is the thing... Do I really 
 need to decapatate every single foe I face? Again, the saying "over the top" comes to mind. I know 
 they are just trying to fit into the culture of things, but I just don't see a point to it. It 
 isn't even realistic, its mature imagary done in a very immature way. 
  
  All that being said, it is a good game to go through. There is no shortage of things to do, and 
 the game, provided you do some side quests, is bound to keep you entertained for a good long time. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bickle66
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 13, 2008 6:19 pm PT
Review:  My only complaints are:
  
  The main story is a big short. The other side missions make up for it, but I can't help but feel 
 like the story ending closes the possibilities for expansions and/or downloadable content. 
  
  Also, although I've never lived in a post-nuclear wasteland, a little more variety on the terrain 
 would be nice. walking out of the vault hits you like a ton of bricks but after you see one train 
 wreck, you've seen em all.
  
  That being said, the missions are a million times better and more layered than Oblivion with optional 
 components. The VAT kicks serious ass. I want a PIP boy. I would've loved a couple more 40's tunes 
 on the radio, that was a nice touch. Definite replay value playing as the opposite type of character 
 you previously played. Voice acting and variety of voices is a huge improvement to Oblivion. 
 
  
  Awesome game overall.
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: fourthgeartappe
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 13, 2008 5:16 pm PT
Review:  In the world of free-form single player RPGs, Bethesda is truly a master of the craft. When the 
 creators of the Elder Scrolls series were given the Fallout IP, it's clear that the team gave it 
 everything they had, and then some. What's left is a title that is unique, intriguing, and truly 
 a world all its own.
  
  I'll start off by letting you know this game is NOT Oblivion. It runs on the same engine, which 
 is clear from the get-go, but the mechanics of play are a different beast. For starters, Fallout 
 introduces V. A. T. S., a targeting system similar to other turn-based RPGs in which the action is 
 stopped and you are given the ability to target specific points on an enemy. It's best described 
 as a cross between Parasite Eve and Vagrant Story. Crippling the different parts of an enemy is 
 crucial to avoiding damage while fighting. For example, when facing an incredibly fast and viscious 
 Deathclaw (one of many ghastly mutations found in the Wastes) , it's a good idea to cripple it's 
 legs, so you can continuously backpedal and fire while avoiding serious damage. For the most part, 
 V. A. T. S. keeps the action under control and manageable, but it's not without its problems. At lower 
 levels, your character is not very skilled at V. A. T. S. utilization, and until you acquire some 
 much-needed perks, you'll waste a lot of ammo missing those low-percentage shots. Manual aiming 
 is next to useless, as the reticle is far too small and jerky as to be effective, and this can 
 be partially corrected by adjusting the look speed, but this will make your exploration segments 
 of your journey somewhat difficult.
  
  The statistical system is different from Oblivion as well, in a good way. In Fallout 3, you are 
 given a specific amount of points to be allotted to your S. P. E. C. I. A. L. attributes, those being 
 Strength, Perception, Endurance, Charisma, Intelligence, Agility, and Luck (S. P. E. C. I. A. L., get 
 it?) . These control other attributes like your health, carry weight, and distance you can pick 
 up enemies on radar, to name a few. Under these attributes are your skills, being the adjustable 
 attributes. These are where the action really happens, and every time your character levels up 
 (to the cap of 20) , you will be given additional points to put into these stats, up to 100. Depending 
 on your character concept, you'll be putting these into different areas depending on how you want 
 to go about your adventure. Some may put a lot of points into the Science skill to hack open computer 
 terminals and gain special access, while others may want to upgrade the Big Guns skill to use the 
 games more destructive weaponry. It's a step forward in that you choose where you want the points 
 to go, rather than earning them by using the skill. This allows you to become immensely proficient 
 in some areas very quickly, albeit at the expense of other potentially important skills.
  
  As you progress in level, you are given the opportunity to choose the really crucial tidbits for 
 your character: Perks. Every time you level up, you can choose from a list of specific abilities 
 that can greatly increase the effectiveness of your character. These Perks are separated into tiers, 
 some becoming available only after level 8, 10, 20, etc. And some are only accessible if you have 
 the requisite attributes or skills. These perks range from finding more ammo in containers, to 
 increased accuracy with two-handed weapons, to having a Mysterious Stranger show up and finish 
 off opponents for you, to regenerating health in sunlight. Some perks also give youmore experience 
 points for everything you do so you can level up faster, but you must make the tough choice of 
 taking that perk or one that has an immediate tangible benefit. Needless to say, you'll do a lot 
 of waffling over choices, and missed perks make for a great replay experience.
  
  The story is quite enthralling, and for newcomers to the Fallout universe, don't worry, the story 
 in Fallout 3 is completely self contained, and you don't need to know anything about other games 
 in the series to enjoy it. You begin in Vault 101, a hermetically sealed underground bunker of 
 sorts, 200 years after the apocalypse. You participate in your own birth (don't worry, mom's already 
 done the pushing) , and choose how your character will look later on. A few small quests inside 
 the Vault serve to get the player oriented with the game. After your father leaves the Vault without 
 any visible reason, you fight your way out of the Vault after him, and are subsequently locked 
 out. Your journey begins with your search for your dad, but you can choose to explore on your own 
 and see what the wasteland has in store for you.
  
  Throughout the adventure, you are presented with myriad choices as to how ot help or hurt others, 
 for free or for your own benefit. All actions register a positve or negative on a Karma scale, 
 and you can be a wasteland savior, observer or scourge of sorts. Karma doesn't play as much of 
 an important role as you might think, though, as every quest can be completed regardless of your 
 standing in the world. Karma only affects gameplay in trying to get acquianted with other wastelanders 
 or getting access to certain areas. For example, the Slavers of the aptly named Paradise Falls 
 won't grant you access until they know that you are the scum of the earth, much like themselves. 
 Of course, you can always pay your way through, since currency is the great equalizer for the Slavers.
 
  
  Currency in the Fallout world is comical in its own way. All transactions are done in the form 
 of "caps," in this case bottle caps from Nuka-Cola soda. There are plenty of junk dealers in the 
 Wasteland that will glady take whatever caps you have to offer, and will render repair services 
 for a fee. There is no lack of junk in the Capital Wasteland either, and some is worth more to 
 some than others. The more important bits of junk you can find can be used to assemble makeshift 
 weapons, from a dart gun contraption that fires poisoned dartboard darts at foes and paralyze their 
 legs, to a "Rock-It Launcher" that fires whatever you put in it, plungers, teddy bears, tin cans 
 etc. Repairing these and other contraptions is vital to your survival, and you will find yourself 
 constantly scavenging for materials to keep your firearms and armor in good working condition. 
 If the condition on your firearms deteriorates too much, you wil find them constantly jamming on 
 reloads until they break. It's definitely in your best interest to keep your equipment in top shape.
 
  
  The enemies you'll face are somewhat varied, and each set poses its own challenges. Super Mutants 
 are tough and favor in-your-face tactics and heavy weaponry, the Ghouls are weak, but are fast 
 and attack in numbers, and the Enclave will give you a tough fight with their advanced laser weaponry 
 and power armor. One main gripe is the difficulty between human opponents and creatures. Wildlife 
 like Radscorpions and Deathclaws are incredibly resilient, requiring almost 4 times the firepower 
 to take down. I would think a big scorpion would be easier to kill than a giant green monster with 
 a missile launcher, but not so in Fallout 3. Most humanoid enemies in Fallout 3 can be felled with 
 a few shots to the head, but not wildlife.
  
  The visuals are simply stunning in their bleakness. It's truly the picture of a post-apocalyptic 
 wasteland, devoid of color, vegetation, and any intact structures. At first, you may be put off 
 at the lack of flora and fauna, but spend a few hours in the Wastes, and you'll come to appreciate 
 the little details that make D. C. so real. Buildings have sections crumbling into the streets, 
 freeway overpasses are broken and collapsed (some have even been turned into makeshift communities) , 
 and smoking craters heavy with radiation dot the landscape. It's quite a shock for an avid Oblivion 
 player, or any other gamer for that matter, to be dropped into a world so bleak. But this is a 
 world that will grow on you, and before long you'll find the treasures buried in all that rubble, 
 and find new and strange groups of people that formed communities out there. The environments themselves 
 are amazingly detailed, down to the names on the broken mailboxes, and the character models look 
 much better than Oblivion's. This is at the expense of the size of the game world, as it is probably 
 at least half as big as Oblivion's.
  
  The game is also truncated as well. It should be no problem for a player to run through the entire 
 Main Quest in 10 hours or less, and once you do, the story ends. Therefore it is advised you complete 
 all the sidequests you want to before you begin the game's final quest, because at a certain point 
 the game will autosave and you will have no option to turn back and explore. You'll definitely 
 want to make a backup save to keep playing with your character. The level 20 ceiling is also a 
 letdown, as it's entirely possible to get to level 20 in about 40 hours or less, and you are left 
 with no additional perks to gain or skills to improve, and are stuck with what you have. The depth 
 of interactivity is also diminished as compared to Oblivion, and for those players who were looking 
 for a plethora of small odds and ends to keep them occupied, they are in short order here. You 
 can only have one house at a time (your choices lead you to one out of two possible houses) , and 
 there aren't any factions to speak of. Vampirism is in here, but in a very simple way: you can 
 earn a perk called Hematophage that allows you to drink blood packs for 20 HP, as opposed to previously 
 recovering only 1 HP. This is as far as it goes, which is certainly a disappointment for those 
 looking to become a full fledged vampire.
  
  The best way to go about this game is with an open mind. I had built up my own hype over it, only 
 to buy it on release day and be disappointed, mostly because I was expecting something that this 
 game clearly was not. It runs on the same engine, and in some cases uses the same gameplay mechanics 
 (i. e. lockpicking, NPC schedules, fast-traveling) as Oblivion, but it is a wholly different game. 
 After a long feeling-out period of about 10 hours of gameplay, I warmed up to it and became addicted. 
 If you've never played a massive open-world RPG before, you will probably have no complaints off 
 the bat, it's a fantastic game that's worth every penny. If it weren't for the short Main Quest 
 and lack of immense depth, this game would be near-perfect in my eyes. As long as you buy Fallout 
 3 and don't expect Oblivion's length and depth, you will enjoy this title for years to come. After 
 growing acquainted with the Capital Wasteland, I know I will. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alizerothree
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 13, 2008 3:12 pm PT
Review:  I just finished Fallout 3 and I must say that i was most impressed with the game. Having played 
 with Fallout 1 and 2 in my old Packard Bell Pentium II days, I can confidently say that they kept 
 the Fallout universe true to the previous games, which is a huge plus.
  
  The game was quite long, and I played through as an evil character. I blew up Megaton, killed innocent 
 NPCs across numerous towns and such, and was pretty much a friggin jerk face. It was very enjoyable 
 and it really showed by how the world reacted to me. 
  
  What I love about the game is that now, I can start a new game, make a totally different character, 
 and play through as a saint. :)
  I am sure there were quests and options not available to me as an evil character. so I am looking 
 forward in seeing how things pan out. 
  
  The story was pretty interesting, but what really drove me to addiction was exploring all the areas 
 and secret forts and such for weapons, bobble heads, and books. The combat system was super satisfying, 
 but i felt it was super easy at the same time. Run up to something, enter V. A. T. S., and unload 
 on their head until it blows up. 
  
  the game was a bit too easy for my taste, so I'm gonna try cranking up the combat difficulty on 
 the next play through. Also, the main storyline was a bit shorter than i had expected. i surely 
 through it would go for another few hours or so. Either way, it was a great RPG game. I highly 
 recommend this game to everyone, even if you don't like RPGs . The combat is great because it plays 
 like an FPS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MYyard
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 13, 2008 2:37 pm PT
Review:  Wow this one was a stunner. It starts off great and the game play is very good. i hope the ending 
 is just as good. When you look at the cover the game looks bad but once you play you totally forget 
 about all that. I like how you can either Do what you want, Play the real game, or do a secondary 
 campaign which ever one you choose is awesome. oh ya and a tip when you get skill points don't 
 just waste them on lock picking or hacking because the things that matter are combat or else you 
 will get owned. when you play try to do all the missions because if you don't you wont get as much 
 good stuff as you would if you just did free play don't forget its not GTA. If you need help there 
 are many forums and websites that can help you out with your problems and if you get stuck don't 
 quit because you will really be missing out on a lot of things and hidden objects. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ann0y4tr0n
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 13, 2008 6:59 am PT
Review:  After playing Fallout 3 for Xbox 360 for over a week I can safely say that I am addicted. After 
 an initial bout of complaints about the text in the Pip-Boy not being as legible as I would have 
 wished for, it all started to make sense. In a post nuclear world, do we really have tools that 
 are crisp and sharp or do we need fuzzy broken screens to give us that wonderful vault dweller 
 feel? I vote for the latter.
  
  Game Controls
  
  The controls for the Xbox 360 are simple and effective. Movement and actions are straightforward 
 and match most other games. The inventory screen presented some initial challenges until I got 
 used to the way it worked. The Health/Status screen can be somewhat confusing at first look, especially 
 the body part system which allows you to apply Stimpaks to a specific body part.
  
  Combat
  
  At first glance Fallout 3 appears to be just like any other FPS role playing game 
 out there. Until you fire up the tactical interface, V. A. T. S. for short. The tactical targeting 
 interface allows you a finer grade of control, at the expense of Action Points, referred to as 
 AP from this point forward. You can regain AP by consuming beverages, drugs, and certain foods. 
 The amount of APs spent differs from weapon to weapon, but you can usually get at least three to 
 four rounds into one or more targets before you have to recharge and go back into "live-action" 
 mode.
  
  Aiming is a breeze, hitting is a whole different story. Depending on your skill level with the 
 weapon that you happen to be using you may need to be fairly close to your target to hit what you 
 are aiming at. The level of realism this provides appeals to me, and I take the same amount of 
 pleasure from surgical one-shot kill sneak attacks performed with the sniper rifle as I do from 
 getting up close and personal with the flamer or combat shotgun.
  
  Skills and Perks
  
  The skill and perk system of Fallout 3 works just like I expected it to. It holds true to the old 
 system of earlier Fallout games. For a while I was worried that the skill system would be similar 
 to that of Oblivion given that Bethesda Studios developed both games. Oblivion is a wonderful game 
 that I am proud to own, although I was never fond of the way that skills improve with usage. I 
 suppose it adds a level of realism - most of all it adds a level of repetitive actions, such as 
 jumping repeatedly to get the Acrobatics skill to increase - that does not appeal to me. Fallout 
 3 remedies all that with a simple point based skill system and one perk per level. Perks are both 
 useful and entertaining, ranging from combat improvements to the good old "Bloody Mess" perk that 
 makes everything you shoot explode into well, a "bloody mess."
  
  Character Interaction
  
  Interacting with characters in the game is straightforward. All it takes is a click of the 
 A button and you are presented with an easy menu that gives you options based on your current knowledge 
 of previous conversations. Sometimes you are presented with special conversation options based 
 on your skills. Some characters can be intimidated by strength whereas others can be convinced 
 with words alone using the Speech skill. The conversation system usually allows for three routes: 
 "evil," neutral, and "good." I have tried both the "evil" and the "good" route up until a certain 
 point in the game, and they do allow for separate story lines that tie very well into the game 
 as a whole.
  
  Story Lines
  
  The game consist of one main story line that ties into a multitude of optional threads that you 
 are free to follow. Several of the optional threads will gain you favor with factions in the post 
 nuclear wasteland. As a young man you leave the safety of the vault in search of your father. In 
 your journeys through the stunningly beautiful landscape you come across a people so badly damaged 
 by radiation that they have almost seized to be human - also known as ghouls - that depending on 
 your character's intended alignment will either become enemies or allies.
  
  Creatures and Monsters
  
  What would Fallout be without the Bramin? The two headed cows that 
 so eloquently illustrates just how much the world will go wrong - if nuclear weapons ever are launched. 
 For the wildlife sportsman there are several animals worth hunting in the wasteland. The beginner 
 will soon face the dogs and rats of the wasteland and overcome them with ease. Not until you have 
 faced your first Fire Ant will you come to appreciate just how dangerous the fauna of the future 
 can become. All the animals and monsters you run into are expertly illustrated and animated, giving 
 the game its wonderful surreal feel.
  
  The Verdict
  
  Now it is time to place the pros and cons in the scales of judgment and weigh them to the grain. 
 What makes this game special, what makes it stand out in the plethora of games of the same style? 
 Nuka-Cola. That's what. And big bleeping bombs, that's what. If you thought that my answer would 
 be eloquent, look again. This is the harsh, grim future of mankind we are talking about here, and 
 it does not leave room for pleasantries delivered by anything other than the barrel of a gun or 
 the points of a spiked board. Sure, there is pockets of sanity and civilization all over the wasteland, 
 and they are resisting the barbarism and confusion on all fronts. Like small oases they hold out 
 behind corrugated steel and sheet metal against the onslaught of radiation sickness, rad roaches, 
 raiders, and the insane ghouls - the last vestiges of mankind proclaiming their right to live on 
 after the apocalypse swept most of their brethren away into the half-life of horrific memories.
 
  
  The sunsets are beautiful. Nuclear blasts in the sunset are even more beautiful. Shattered, twisted 
 overpasses and interstate sections look like something a child built hastily in sand and sticks 
 and then discarded with the quick sweep of a hand. The brush and starkly naked trees lend an eerie 
 atmosphere to a landscape that can best be described as "scary as hell."
  
  This is the game of 2008. This is the game of the decade. I have been waiting for the Fallout games 
 to come to a fulcrum and complete the unfinished trilogy that it was long thought to be. I am not 
 disappointed. I am elated. Simply stated: Fallout 3 rocks! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _Junkie_
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 12, 2008 10:20 pm PT
Review:  Were you planning on doing anything in the next couple of days? Good. Because once you start playing 
 Fallout 3, it sucks you in and hours will go by like minutes. I am not the type of person who throws 
 around 10s to all my favorite games. But I truly believe this game is worthy of a 10. There is 
 so much stuff to do that it's just so overwhelming. Being a big fan of Oblivion, and a big nuclear 
 apocalypse fan, I was really excited when I learned about this game. Beside a few graphical glitches 
 and some very similar voices, the game is absolutely top notch and I don't mind the bugs that much. 
 They aren't game breaking and I want to see you make a game like this bug free. I can just get 
 lost in the world of Fallout. Traveling around and stumbling upon an abandoned building, going 
 inside and finding it infested with Super Mutants and some nice loot. I love things like that. 
 Just little details and areas that make exploring worth it. The crashed alien space ship is another 
 example. I like how this is much more straightforward than Oblivion. When I first got into the 
 world of Oblivion I thought "What do I do now?" while Fallout gives you a straightforward message 
 to go to Megaton. When you first leave the vault, you get a beautiful and horrifying view of the 
 wasteland. I would also like to note that playing this game may cause you to become depressed. 
 You'll feel very lonely while playing this game. And this is where the up beat optimistic music 
 can come in. Hearing Three Dog and the music can help that feeling of loneliness go away. A thing 
 I didn't like about this game is that there is no real towns or cities. Everywhere feels so empty. 
 I mean there is Megaton and Rivet City but they don't feel like some of the towns in Oblivion. 
 They have an empty feeling. But this reason can't stop me from loving this game. I give Fallout 
 3 a 10 out of 10 and a 5 out of 5. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: taco_paco
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 12, 2008 7:23 pm PT
Review:  Like I said before, Fallout is great in the sense that you can explore the huge post-nuclear world, 
 loot just about everything, and do quite a bit the quests and all. However, in about 10 minutes 
 the grand scale of the game is diminished by the many grand flaws that seemed to have been overlooked 
 before the game was released. 
  
  For instance, the simple task of moving around. Easy, right? I mean, all Bethesda has to do is 
 make your guy look like he's actually a part of the world he's in. What gets me is that the environment 
 looks absolutely amazing, so you'd think it'd be easy to get past the obvious blunders of this 
 game's predecessor, Oblivion. But as soon as I was able to go into third person, I was horrified 
 by the lack of attention in this part of the game. Your guy literally ice-skates across the environment, 
 using hills and other objects as tools to break his/her gliding fall. I am very tolerant of certain 
 flaws in a game, I mean, some things are hard to address, but you will find that the thing you 
 do the most in Fallout 3 is one of the worst aspects of the game- running around and exploring 
 and fighting.
  
  Oh, how silly of me, did I say moving around is the worst element in the game? I'm sorry, what 
 I meant to say is that the actual gameplay mechanics feel EXTREMELY clunky- not mildly like a lot 
 of these reviewers say. Don't even think that because the game is set in first person that it is 
 going to be like a Call of Duty 4 RPG masterpiece. I say this to you now, do not even try to aim 
 manually, as in, the way you aim in almost any other FPS. Yes, you read me correctly- you will 
 not survive this game without the use of the automatic aiming system (called VATS in the game) . 
 Now, I know that the game is supposed to have more of an RPG feel to it, and I'm totally that type 
 of person, but believe me when I say this- you will have better luck getting a month off of bills 
 from your car insurance company than you will trying to hit anything in the realm of this God-forsaken 
 world.
  
  That being said, the game as a whole is really quite addicting. The environments, although lacking 
 any life whatsoever (believe me there is no greenery anywhere) , look ominously appealing to the 
 eye. That, with the ability to roam a gigantic world filled with intricately troubled characters, 
 brings a sense of realism to suck you into this devastated world. Although it is light on the humor 
 and filled with virtually zero glimmers of hope anywhere, the game really does entertain you on 
 some level. If it weren't for the constant graphical hitches that remind you that this is just 
 a game, you might be immersed in this post-apocalyptic vision completely. But alas, I wonder if 
 these blatant blunders of Bubonic proportions were intentional in the first place. It's a good 
 game, but not great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OniSwordsman
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 12, 2008 6:56 pm PT
Review:  Fallout 3 is an innovative creative and most of all intensely expansive anticipated video game. 
 the game itself has amazing graphics and an involving and slightly addictive gameplay. the game 
 allows you to create your character, set up his or hers strengths and finally whether or not your 
 a total douchebag. the game leaves you to decide it for yourself. Much like its fantasy counter 
 part oblivion, there is a main story line along with a substancial amounts of side quests, which 
 are both engaging and involving. but unfortunatly there is one thing that i found equally unique 
 in its predecesor, is the amount of walking you have to do. its an amazing concept and definatly 
 makes the player think of ways to travel or in my case whether or not its worth the trek (there 
 will be quests where it takes you 20-30 minutes just to walk there) . I remember when i first put 
 in the game, i had no save file, for a friend had my memory card, so when i got started i gunned 
 it towards the sidequests after setting up an accurate look alike and so on.
  There is a point where you have to get supplies from a local super mart. when i got there i thought 
 i would find another raider, you know an easy kill. when i get there the raiders are already dead 
 and a were wolf like monster stands above them. thinking he would be an easy kill. i take out my 
 pistol and begin to fire, until i am out of ammo and he is getting awfully close, i am sorry i 
 have forgotten this things name but i wouldn't recommend getting close to it. because, with the 
 pleasure of this games customization menu i got to see a very lifelike me get my head ripped off 
 and then i got the pleasure of seeing my own head roll across the ground and steadily to a stop 
 over a FAT MAN gun... unfortunate no? now i told this story to say that this game will surprise 
 to how it can suddenly turn on you. its invigorating because you never know when one of big monsters 
 will run out of the bush from behind you and pull your tongue through your own ass. 
  While the wastelands maybe endless in sight, the cities seem so constricted due to the super mutants 
 and their rifles (perfect aim from 900 yards of course)
  but that just adds to the variety of scenarios the game places you in. From fortified radio towers 
 to the radioactive wasteland the quests will keep you walking and walking and walking until you 
 have reached the farthest edges of the map... well i hope by then you have a better gun then me 
 cause like many risky travellers with a sense of dangerous adventure, i am skint broke. i am off 
 to hunt the were wolf that killed me oh so long ago. thats my goal in this game go set your own, 
 and become the saver of the survivors or an up and coming apocalyptic tyrant bent on death and 
 destruction. if your the latter keep this in mind... there is a thing called a mini nuke. Have 
 fun! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Canoey1479
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 12, 2008 5:57 pm PT
Review:  One of the best games I've played this year! Many people thought that GOW2 would be the game of 
 the year, and i think it is very fun to play, but there is so much more to Fallout 3 that makes 
 it better. It is also a lot more customizable features, but I'm not going to get into the arguments 
 about what game is better. Simply said, Fallout 3 is a great game that will keep u busy for a while 
 and at the end, leave you searching Fallout 4 up on Google. com, and trust me, I know that's the 
 first thing you're going to do when you get done reading this review. The NPCs do a great job and 
 there is plenty to do to keep you busy, from the V. A. T. S. head shots to nailing peoples limbs to 
 walls with the rail road nail gun, and you will be playing this game over and over for years to 
 come. Overall great game and hopefully at E309 or E310 we'll see Fallout 4. Great job!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pelm
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 12, 2008 5:09 pm PT
Review:  Fallout 3 is an immersive, innovative deeply rich and engrossing game with a ton of side quest 
 to do and a lengthy main quest which will keep you locked in but also never bored. What this game 
 does differently then oblivion is that it doesn't just use what it has and pushes it it doesn't 
 just introduce new innovations what it does do more than any of this is it engages you it interacts 
 with you on every level: emotionally mentally and spiritually. Fallout 3 provides you with a ton 
 of weapons to use a ton different outfits including a few key armor sets and then lets you do what 
 you want and how you want to do it. 
  
  It`s not just about the main quest its also about an open ended world and your own choice on how 
 you want to do things. There`s also the unique combat mode that`s been put in the game: the V. A. T. S 
 combat mode. The idea of targeting an enemy in a pause mode and then pin pointing certain body 
 parts on that enemy is a very unique innovation that`s never been done before by anyone, plus its 
 also pretty cool to see an enemies body part get injured or blown off by shooting at it this way. 
 
  
  But there is only one thing that Bethesda left out of this game: open ended game-play like in morrowind 
 and in oblivion with that this game would have gotten a 9.5 or even a 10 but since it didn`t it 
 got a 9.0, but still even so This rpg offers every thing an rpg should offer and more it is a true 
 masterpiece which will go down in generations as the greatest rpg ever created which is why i give 
 this game a 9.5 (5 stars) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DeadlyPlatypus
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 12, 2008 2:11 pm PT
Review:  Fallout 3 continues a series that was thought to be dead for a very long time. It was ressurected 
 by Bethesda, the makers of Oblivion, Morrowind, and the other Elder Scrolls games.
  
  Fallout 3 is what you get when you throw Oblivion's role-playing system, Fallout atmosphere, and 
 shooter elements into a boiling cauldron and mix them up for a few minutes. Oh, and salted by Bethesda.
 
  
  The Fallout Universe is an alternate reality, so the world of 2077 is still locked in a 1950s culture, 
 and cars are powered atomically. Entertainment has advanced at a very slow rate while martial technology 
 is far superior to what we may have in 2077. And it is the year 2077 that a nuclear war between 
 the United States and China clouds the world in darkness. Two-hundred years later, inside a fallout 
 shelter called Vault 101, your character is born. (This prologue is explained by Ron Perlman)
 
  
  It is here that you develop your character as you see fit. You choose everything from name to race 
 to even job. But then, when nineteen years of age, your father (played by Liam Neeson) leaves the 
 underground for the outside world (the ruins of Washington D. C.) . Vault 101 is thrown into chaos. 
 And as his son, it is your responsibility to find him.
  
  In Fallout 3, there are over a dozen weapons (perhaps twice that) to choose from, including a few 
 custom weapons. They all feel as powerful as they should, although the real-time firing is a little 
 tricky to be accurate and efficent with. Why did I specifically say "real-time"? Because there 
 is a second system of weapon combat called VATS  With VATS, 
 you can lock onto targets and see what your chance of hit will be on a specific body part. If you 
 think you will get the shot, you can fire. Then, VATS will show a cool (and most often gory) "cutscene".
 
  
  Fallout 3's graphics are great, the Capitol Wasteland surrounding D. C. beautifully brooding. A 
 few graphical issues occur occasionaly, and the game freezes very rarely. (It froze once out of 
 the forty hours I have played so far.) The creatures sound bloodcurdling, and the gunshots are 
 loud. Technically, Fallout 3 is impressive.
  
  If you enjoyed Oblivion for its character creation and customization, or if you loved previous 
 Fallouts for their dark, depressing mood, then you should pick up this game.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Crypto145
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 12, 2008 9:45 am PT
Review:  Well when I first played the game I had no idea what the fallout series was about I just heard 
 it was gonna be a sweet game, and being a hardcore gamer myself, I play any game that I hear good 
 things about and it is everything everyone said it was gonna be. I personally loved Oblivion and 
 this makes me feel very familiar to the world, actually the first half hour I played the game with 
 the right stick for movement and the left for viewing, it was annoying lol! It also feels like 
 one of those games where you're are greatful theres a bit of a chalenge in the game. Like that 
 without the challenge it wouldn't be as great. But ya I'm having fun playing it and I hope anyone 
 else does too. Although I've felt compelled to also tell you the faults of the game, I think that 
 the people in the game are not very realistic as 1950's people, I know it is 2200 something but 
 the world ended pretty much in the 1950s and nobody acts like that ever happened and yet I still 
 gotta listen to crappy 1950's music all the time! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cjmccardle
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 12, 2008 4:43 am PT
Review:  Bethesda has something, they show it every time they put out a game. What that something is, is 
 the desire to make games that allow the user unrivaled depth and mass of information to play with. 
 These type of games are no simple task to make and no simple task to play. Sure you can just pick 
 up and go. But once you leave the starting tutorial the story takes over and the RPG element gets 
 huge. But you cant just walk around after a nuclear fallout. Its no simple task to have nothing 
 and no-one in a scenario such as what Fallout presents you with. 
  
  But if your reading this your a gamer or a friend to one. This game will challenge you and if you 
 meet that challenge will engross you. This game has endless possibilities and hours of gameplay. 
 The main story can be forgotten or advanced but if completed will more than likely provoke another 
 play through. As this game will measure your karma and deem you evil or good. Some gameplay will 
 only open if aligned one way or the other, so one play through is not enough if you Fallout. 
 
  
  The conversation system will have to continue to grow however. With a somewhat rigid presentation 
 and sometimes exploitable conversation system, it is, in my controls, the games biggest sour spot. 
 And this is what keeps me from giving this game a 10. Understand me here, I 95% of the time skip 
 all dialogue. Not having the ability to reply in text or dialogue really takes me out of the experience. 
 Voice recognition is looming in our world. I expect it soon.
  
  Fallout 3 has got to be one of the best games to hit in a long time. If you ever wanted to be Mad 
 Max or Snake Blisken or even Dekard, this is a must and wont let you down because you must be alert 
 to survive a fallout in the 2070's DC 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Decko5
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 11, 2008 9:34 pm PT
Review:  Story = A
  Gameplay = C+
  Graphics = C
  
  The Story
  Fallout 3 provides a great introduction to truly establish a motivation to play. The images found 
 in the environment help make a connection to the back story and contrast with the setting and help 
 further intrigue you into the world and the events going on. The information that is given to you 
 from the get go engages you. After learning why you are in a vault underground and discovering 
 that your dad has escaped, you are off to uncover the mystery by interacting with people and visiting 
 places. 
  
  Gameplay
  The game plays in a decent 1st person and a terrible 3rd person. The 1st person view is the way 
 in which it should be played. The 3rd person camera is simply broken and should only be used when 
 walking the wasteland but not in a city or other small confinements. The melee system and shooting 
 system relies on the games VATS targeting system which works almost like MASS EFFECTS system. It 
 should be used because playing it as a 1st person will get you nowhere. The game is short. The 
 main quest will last around 15 hours. However, working with side quests will expand the game. not 
 only in lenght but in content as well. You will miss out on a lot if you go and do a bare bone 
 play through. Guns, Skills, and locations will all be missed.
  
  Graphics
  The graphics are pretty good considering the scale of the game. some areas are better than others. 
 The art style in some places are just so terrific while others look like multiplayer mps in CALL 
 OF DUTY 2
  
  
  This is an overview of a casual gamer. It is not worth 60 bucks In my opinion. Unless you have 
 a lot of time to invest and play it twice and achieve different outcomes and you love to explore 
 and level up then there is a lot to see. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AfroDisiac69
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 11, 2008 9:19 pm PT
Review:  I bought this game on a blind whim. It was either this, Dead Space, or Fable II. So I went with 
 the one I wouldn't normally get (just to shake things up a bit) . And now I've become a great fan 
 of this game. Everything about this game is overall really well done. They could've fixed up on 
 the Third Person view and not make it so clunky (spinning around in circles while not moving is 
 bad technically, but amusing) . Either way, it's made for FPS mode. The one thing I find fascinating 
 about this game is the amount of scavenging you have to do. It gives a sense of urgency in the 
 game while you're thinking about "okay, I have this much money, this much ammo in this gun, this 
 much stuff to make other things with, but I dont have..." it really makes you think about consolidating 
 your resources and making sure you have everything you need. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarkElf2112
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 12, 2008 5:06 am PT
Review:  There are two game developers whose reputation is such that you buy whatever game they are releasing 
 without hesitation. One is Valve, the other is Bethesda. You know that will not be getting mere 
 hours but whole days of entertainment for your money. After 81 hours of my first playthrough, Fallout 
 3 proves this to be true once again.
  Understand, a game does not need to be perfect to get a 10. But a game does need to be absolutely 
 perfect at what it's trying to do and hit that mark in a way no other game of it's type does on 
 it's particular platform. Fallout 3 is the definitive role playing game on the XBox 360. The scale, 
 the scope, and the depth are unmatched by any RPG or JRPG that has come before. Including it's 
 big brother Oblivion. First let's address what critics of this masterpiece will no doubt complain 
 about.
  
  Graphics: This is stupid to criticize of course. The moment you emerge into the wastelands is one 
 of the most impressive things that a 360 has ever displayed, but I'll address it anyway. Yes, the 
 character models look bad, Oblivion bad. So what? Stop and think. Look and the amazing distances 
 that you are looking across. Consider how utterly enormous this landscape is. Stand on the steps 
 of the shattered Lincoln Memorial and then whine to me about the ugly woman that keeps giving you 
 stuff you don't need every time you leave your house in Megaton. Bottom line, the game looks amazing.
 
  
  Story: Contrived? Sure. Predictable? Yeah. Weak ending? You could make an good argument about that. 
 Now, forget it. You could literally play 60 hours of Fallout 3 without even touching the main story. 
 There are literally scores of stories going on in this game and you want to see how every one of 
 them turns out. It's truly like the real world. There's the big picture and then there's everyone 
 else's own little world. It's just terrific.
  
  Gameplay: An open letter to First Person Shooter fans. FALLOUT 3 IS NOT A SHOOTER!!! Yes, there 
 are active FPS elements ( the V. A. T. S. system allows you to target specific areas on on enemy) 
 but the game is an RPG! When a critic tells you this is a terrible shooter they are right. However, 
 a bus is a bad airplane too. What does one have to do with the other? Nothing. The combat is fun 
 and satisfying. Period.
  
  Replay Value: Obviously there is no multi-player in Fallout 3. But you will be playing this game 
 through at least twice and each time will involve many, many hours of your time. I can't wait to 
 see how things would turn out if I chose the evil path. And I assure you I will find out!
  
  At the end of the day Fallout 3 is the very best a console RPG can do. To squeeze so much content 
 onto one 360 disk is nothing short of amazing. It has it's glitches and blemishes here and there 
 but they mean absolutely nothing. This game is as close to a visit to another world as a video 
 game can get.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hakusu
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 11, 2008 7:48 pm PT
Review:  From the moment you turn on your console and put Fallout 3 in you will know something special is 
 about to happen. The first 20 minutes of the game involve your typical "build a character" mode 
 in a not so typical way. You witness your birth and play a few short quests within the safety of 
 Vault 101. It's not too long before your perfect little post-nuclear life is instantly destroyed. 
 Your father (who is voice acted perfectly) suddenly disapears into the vast capital wasteland. 
 Hence, the game begins with your main quest of finding your father and furthering his work.
  
  
  Fallout 3 may be a completely different game then its prequels but it is still enough to 
 keep the old fans interested. The game is well put together with a vast world that only has the 
 few lag moments (similar to bioshock) and only goes to load screens while going in and out doors 
 to new areas. The V. A. T. S. system is an amazing tool that you will love the instant you use it. 
 It makes what seems like an impossible battle a very easy victory. Whether you decide to play as 
 a good, evil, or even a completely neutral character you will have to make tough choices that will 
 provide with very different results. Unlike most other games, Fallout 3 does allow the player to 
 FAIL quests. So if you're attempting to recover items for another character in game, DO NOT KILL 
 that character until after you finish the mission... if that's how you decide to play the game that 
 is. Fallout 3's completely open world also gives you many chances to find uniqe weapons, items, 
 and even gives you the chance to construct your own weapons. 
  
  Sadly, this game does not go without flaws. I found that on many occasions the massive world would 
 fail to load and I would be faced with a gray colored screen if I was facing a certain direction. 
 At other moments in the game I found that AI characters would suddenly become hostile with other 
 AI characters in game (specifically the Charon character) . These certain moments in the game can 
 be disastrous to some quests.
  
  Despite it's minor flaws, Fallout 3 has more too offer then any other RPG out at the moment. If 
 you've played and beaten Fable 2 and feel the need for a long RPG then go out and buy Fallout 3. 
 You wont be disapointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BadSushi
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 11, 2008 7:43 pm PT
Review:  Now before I begin I need to say a couple things. One I have never before played a Fallout game 
 this is my first game into the series, I may not get some inside jokes (like Dogmeat) , but this 
 is my review on this game and not the series and how this may make it better or worse. Second, 
 I am writing this review on only playing for 35 hours. I have completed the game, but after exploring 
 for a week I needed to rush, as more games are coming out. I have beaten it and this is my view 
 on the game as a whole. Okay, and with that out of the way let the review continue.
  
  The game thrusts you into the seat of the character straight out of... well... the womb. The game 
 has an interesting way of creating your character, through watching your character grow through 
 the years. you can create the way the character looks through a program right after you are born, 
 to show you how you will look in the future. Then you take your first steps a few years later and 
 choose your base stats (your S. P. E. C. I. A. L stats, Strength, Perception, Endurance, Cunning, Intellegence, 
 Agility, and Luck) , as this IS an RPG before an FPS, just to set the record straight. Next you 
 get your inventory screen and even get to start the first shooting elements in the game by using 
 a BB gun. The game fastforwards again and now you are taking a sort of SAT exam. This is used to 
 show you some humor into the game, and to delve even deeper into customizing your characters non-basic 
 stats (such as Lockpicking, Barter, Speech, etc.) . With all that out of the way you can easily 
 be a full hour or more into the game. Now the real game begins, with your best friend Amata (seems 
 to be female no matter what) , waking you to the sounds of sirens. But, why sirens? Well, its cause 
 your father has left the vault of course! Vault? Well then I shall explain for those who haven't 
 a clue for what is going on, if you want to continue past go to the next paragraph which will leave 
 the story explanation. You are in a vault because the world has fallen to nuclear war. America 
 taking Canada, China taking Alaska, etc. The place is Washington DC. The time is a alternate-reality 
 future, 2077. The world seems to be stuck between the year 1950 with futuristic additions. If you 
 can imagine a 1950's sci-fi movie, thats pretty much what you will see here (robots, energy weapons, 
 over-sized bugs) . But back to the vault, you are here because the world is irradiated. The vault 
 keeps people safe from the radiation and war-like enviornment outside. People live and die here. 
 No one leaves, well with the exception of your father... and you. The game quickly shows that you 
 are no longer welcomed in the precious halls of vault 101. And you are thrown out, and the story 
 begins: Find your father. As the story goes it is very entertaining, with tons of humor and sentimental 
 pieces thrown into it. I will not go into details on the story as it could ruin some of the surprises, 
 but lets say the story is a good story. If not great, but good at least. 
  
  With the story out of the way lets get something out of the way. The bad things in the game. There 
 aren't many, but they can be annoying to a big enough degree as to change your outlook on the game. 
 I'm not sure if I'm the only one, but my game was especially buggy. I had to shut it down four 
 times due to massive graphical glitches that cause my game to crash. Sometimes when the screen 
 is wrought with firefights the framerate can become wretched. Which only happened twice to me enough 
 to annoy me (one time lasting more than 5 minutes) . With the framerate and graphical issues out 
 of the way there are some other things. One, while character animations while talking are great 
 to watch watch the characters actually move outside of the dialouge is sort of tough to chew on. 
 The graphics are so clean and polished watching characters, including yourself if you want, is 
 sort of painful. Speaking of watching yourself, yes you can put the game in third-person, DO NOT 
 DO THIS, it is totally useless and actually will make the game less fun. Other than that the game 
 contains a lot of exploring, which at times can be sort of annoying (but almost all of the time 
 fun) . And to me... I loved the voice acting in the game, especially Liam Neeson (your father) , 
 but I would've liked to hear more voice acting. When you run into two people in a row with the 
 same voice, it seems weird. Other than those the game had no other problems for me. 
  
  The graphics were insanely polished. Everything looks as though it most likely would look in a 
 post-apocolyptic world. The trees are black and burnt. The ground is cracked with dehydration. 
 The water is murky and poisonous looking (which radiation can do) . Characters while talking show 
 emtions making you able to understand the characters that much more. You can watch blood gather 
 on melee weapons, and gore for exploded head litter the ground (eyeballs are my favorite gore) . 
 The map is littered with towns, and while some aspects of them may seem the same, each town is 
 distinctly different. Baddies, can sometimes seem almost like clones, especially the animals, but 
 being able to blow off different body parts, for some reason seems to set them apart from eachother. 
 The graphics are indeed, one of the best aspects in the game. 
  
  In my personal opinion, the sound is THE best quality of the game. The sound of footsteps. The 
 different sounds of guns firing. The amazing voice cast. And even the musical soundtrack (including 
 a personal favorite group the Andrew Sisters) which can be heard on your personal radio in-game. 
 Everything about the sound is amazing, a downside to it is that sometimes the sound carries to 
 far, or not far enough, which is a drag, but can be easily overlooked by everything else that is 
 done right in this part of the game. Nothing bad to be said about the sound. 
  
  Many wonder how the FPS style of gameplay is played. I will start by saying I was not looking forward 
 to using VATS. VATS is the RPG element of FPS, if that makes any sense, that Bethesda added to 
 Fallout. In VATS you freeze the action and select a character (good or bad I may add) . From here 
 you may select a body part, or the weapon they are carrying. From here you can see the percentage 
 of chance to hit. Then you may select a number of attacks according to the weapon and AP points 
 you have to spend. Then after you are finished selecting you finish. And when you finish selecting 
 and pressing the button to unleash your attack, you watch in beautiful slow motion as the bullets, 
 grenades, etc. pass or hit thier target. Like I said I was not looking forward to using this being 
 a decent FPS player myself, but VATS is defintley a great system to use. Since it IS an RPG before 
 an FPS, meaning just running and gunning ain't gonna do it. 
  
  With so much to talk about in such a large game, there is another thing to talk about. The perks. 
 Much like those in COD4, these give an ability to your character. Since the level cap in Fallout 
 3 is 20 that means you may have up to 20 perks being used at once. All are passive, meaning you'll 
 never have to use them like a spell, which is something that was a good decision in my opinion. 
 They can range to adding more points into stats. Skipping to the next level right away (which was 
 a dissapointment) . To even creating more gore, with even a slight boost in damage. There are plenty 
 others, such as the ability to eat corpses to gain life, but gaining bad karma (karma to be explained 
 next) or even abilities to give you higher radiation resistance. Each perk depends on your play 
 style. If you are all about guns, go to more gun related perks. All about sneaking and pickpockets, 
 focus on perks related to those. The perks are many and most have a hint of humor to them as they 
 have a vault boy picture to depict them. 
  
  Karma is another thing that is special to Fallout. This is an in game ruler as to how good or bad 
 you are in the game. While playing you are bound to do something good, like rescuing a slave or 
 bad, like stealing from someone. And these begin to add up ingame. There isn't much that happens 
 except sometimes people will give you presents if your nice (but at the cost of getting jumped 
 by mercenaries in the field) or people will run in terror and try to kill you if your mean (but 
 contracts are plenty and help boost your income) . Also the karma rating gives out achievements 
 at level marks, so that means people will have to play this game at least three times to get all 
 achievements so be warned.
  
  Overall the game is good and there is most likely something that I am missing that someone wants 
 to hear about, but thats okay, because there is just too much stuff to do in this game. If you 
 are looking for a game for your money, this is one. If you are looking for a game to be the bringer 
 of death to everyone and see almost no consequences this game is for you. You can do nearly anything 
 in this game (short of rape and killing kids, yes that means you can get addicted to drugs) . The 
 game was indeed amazing, but with a jam packed holiday season coming out, its hard to go back in 
 play (which i already started to do) . I give this game a 9.3 out of 10. Its great, but not perfect, 
 due to the massive glitches. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Scuza2100
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 11, 2008 5:05 pm PT
Review:  + Right off the bat, the visuals are STUNNING. They will drop your jaw faster then you can say 
 'Which is the kill button?' The rending in this game is phenomenal, and it's great to look at the 
 destroyed wasteland that is... er... WAS the Capitol.
  + The V. A. T. S. targeting system is neat. It's something fresh and unexpected from a shooter, especially 
 from an RPG. The ability to shoot at specific body parts gives you a small degree of strategy in 
 combat.
  + The story in Vault 101 is really interesting. The whole idea of your progress from an infant 
 to an adult is a fun way to start the game.
  + The gore is pretty brutal.
  
  - Okay, the visuals are stunning. But that doesn't count for crap in this case, because the whole 
 game is just one destroyed wasteland. If you've seen one destroyed building, you've seen them all. 
 Not to mention the blatant lack of different enemies. It's just one Super Mutant after another, 
 and after a while, shooting them quickly loses its charm. The lack of interesting enemies is appalling, 
 considering the work put into the monsters from Oblivion.
  - V. A. T. S. gets boring. It's far too inaccurate at any range greater 20 feet, yet your enemies 
 can pick you off from afar like they were trained snipers in the Marine Corps. After about an hour, 
 V. A. T. S. gets old. Plus, if you run out of Action Points, no more V. A. T. S. for you. You're meat 
 in a shark tank.
  - Once you leave the Vault, the story gets drawn out, and you lose sense of what you're doing. 
 The main story quickly becomes tedious, unrewarding and all around not worth doing. For hours on 
 end, I was on a wild goose chase, searching for my character's father all across the Wasteland. 
 Each person I encountered had something that they needed help with, and then they sent me on my 
 way to another pointless task. I would say you lose sight of your final goal, but I never really 
 felt like I had a final goal.
  - The combat system worked very well for Oblivion. The fast paced action was intense, and really 
 fun. Unfortunately, it doesn't translate to Fallout. The controls feel heavy and clunky, and it 
 just isn't fun. If you actually want to hit something this century, then aiming precisely slows 
 your movement to a rate that a snail would laugh at, making you a sitting duck to the enemies with 
 the ability to thread a needle from 50 feet away. 
  - The conversations (if you can even call them that) have been reduced from entertaining to 'wait 
 until prompted to select an answer'. Answers will have an effect on your Karma, but other then 
 that, no matter what you say, you're still going to get the same outcome of each one. The conversations 
 in Oblivion were engaging, with each character having a unique personality for you to discover. 
 The characters in Fallout are pretty much cardboard cut-outs that tell you where to go next.
  
  For the first while, Fallout 3 is relatively enjoyable. But once you get into it, you realize 
 that all the cool parts are just shiny trinkets that the developers dangled in your face for years. 
 This is a bad direction for Bethesda to be headed. If you MUST play this game, rent it, don't buy 
 it. I can almost guarantee that you'll get bored of it very quickly, and will be playing something 
 else by the end of the week. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: suplax
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 11, 2008 3:35 pm PT
Review:  I remember of the first game that make me play a lot, it was Zelda Ocarina of Time , i played that 
 game for like 25 hours in a single sit.
  But man Fallout 3 is far superior than any game ever made so far i played almost 30 hours on a 
 single sit. The game is fabulous i have more than 200 hours of game and still can play some more. 
 I finished Fable 2 with like 60 hours and still playing Gears of War 2 with 20 hours, but believe 
 me Fallout 3 is a new hole level of gameplay , better game i ever played.
  Ok lets go to my rates first :
  
  Graphics - 10 
  At the beginning you will see that the 
 graphics are amazing but after you leave the Vault... you will definitely drop some tears of joy 
 after see the entire Wasteland graphics, the visuals is simple amazing , the char models , effects 
 , objects , everything, you name it.
  
  Game History - 10
  The in game History is fantastic beginning of course with the situation that you are , a devastated 
 post nuclear war world. And you can explore every single place in the HUGE map , and every place 
 have they own history and secrets , amazing.
  
  Sound - 10
  Simple perfect, you can hear every single noise in the world , footsteps , bugs , the wind, anything 
 at all , with a device that you get the you can even listen some few radios that have been made 
 after the nuclear world war, and depending how you act in the game, the radio changes , talking 
 bad about you or not , and they play some songs too, the songs i don't enjoy to much , well i like 
 more some bullet in the head sound =)
  
  Fun - 10 
  O believe when you begin to use V. A. T. S you will see what the real fun is , blowing any part of 
 you enemy's body , well that is fun enough to me , but one great thing too is the game designer's 
 sense of humor , in some in game quotes , i laugh hard some times, the G. O. A. T test is fun as hell.
 
  
  Gameplay - 11/10
  Well the gameplay is the best i saw in a game, truth must be said.
  You can do anything you want at anytime you want. But every action have a reaction... You can steal 
 from people, being good to then , you can create your weapons with simple materials like a fork 
 , tin can , a motorcycle handbrake , anything you can find. The char customization is awesome , 
 you can play the game like 10 times and always will be a different build of you abilities. The 
 exploration of the devastated D. C is great the map is HUGE , very HUGE and every cavern , destroyed 
 buildings , abandoned gas stations anything can be explored , at like 70 hours of gameplay and 
 i have like 50% of the entire map discovered and REALLY explored.
  
  Final results = Best game ever made so far.
  I am tired of typing but i can't stop talking about 
 how great the game is , my advice here is go buy it , don't you even think about its a waste of 
 money because worth much more than what cost. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brooks005
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 11, 2008 9:06 am PT
Review:  I'm sure it has flaws and everyone has an opinion, but when your spend your hard earned money on 
 a game you would like hours and hours of playability with challenges and a steep learning curve. 
 Fallout 3 delivers. I don't necessarily see this as an "Oblivion with guns" But so what if it is? 
 Oblivion provided a daunting challenge to learn and play and from my brief exposure to Fallout 
 3 it has done justice to the efforts put forth by Bethesda.
  
  The graphics could be a tad bit better and the interaction with the characters is somewhat lame, 
 however there are some humorous lines which caused me to chuckle. One part did concern me in terms 
 of dialog. There is definitely some strong language used and I thought that was a bit much. I hear 
 that crap enough as it is and don't think it should be incorporated into the game. 
  
  I think that overall the targeting system that VATS uses is awesome. Cutting to a closeup and watching 
 a head roll around the floor after you've capped a round into it is a pretty amazing site.
  
  I know there are a lot of hard core gamers out there who would probably disagree with me, but 
 all in all, for the money, Fallout 3 is well worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: anticap
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 11, 2008 5:48 am PT
Review:  This is my Fallout 3 review. Like all my reviews this will contain opinions (oh no!)
  
  Graphics:
  
  The graphics on this game are very good. I haven't had the opportunity to play 
 it on a HD TV yet, but even on an SD TV the graphics are very nice. The world looks like you'd 
 expect a post nuclear apocalypse world to look and the characters all actually look realistic. 
 I was especially impressed by the Enclave and the Deathclaws. There are minor graphical flaws at 
 times, such as texture pop, and some animations are a bit wooden, but overall the graphics are 
 very nice and keep a steady framerate through out.
  
  Sound/Music:
  
  The sounds in this game are nice. Everything sounds as it should but I haven't really heard anything 
 super impressive. The voice acting is a lot better than some of Bethesda's previous attempts (such 
 as Oblivion) , but you still get the odd character that sounds wooden. The soundtrack is impressive, 
 with a nice collection of songs, but the real icing on the cake with the soundtrack for me was 
 the ambient music that comes on when prowling the wastes when there's no radio on.
  
  Gameplay:
  
  It plays like a mixture of Oblivion and Fallout, which is kinda what you'd expect. 
 Some fights (especially gun fights) can feel a bit... strange, but overall there's nothing major 
 to detract. The lockpicking and hacking minigames are entertaining, although not groundbreaking. 
 Speech feels a bit pointless, and it lacks the ability of previous Fallout games to be able to 
 go through the entire game with just the speech skill. I found that after a while though the game 
 seems to start to move slowly, so for me it wasn't very good for prolonged gaming periods as I'd 
 start to loose interest quickly.
  
  Story:
  
  The story is solid, with plenty of twists and turns to keep you interested, and the side quests 
 add enough minor background stories to keep you playing when you get fed up of the main story. 
 There's not much change to the lore of previous games, the Enclave are still sinister, Super Mutants 
 are still a pain, but I did feel they'd somewhat butchered the Brotherhood of Steel. The reasons 
 for this are explained in game but for me they just weren't the Brotherhood any more.
  
  Conclusion:
  
  Fallout 3 is a solid RPG that can keep you entertained, but for me at least, 
 it's just not quite Fallout. In fact, if the game had a different title and wasn't intended to 
 be a Fallout game I could have quite easily given this a 9.5. Ultimately it tries to be as good, 
 if not better than its predecessors, and although it does present you with a good action RPG set 
 in a post nuclear apocalypse world, it doesn't quite capture the charm and atmosphere of the first 
 two Fallout games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: appl4s
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 10, 2008 7:46 pm PT
Review:  God I love this game... 
  
  Graphics 
  The graphics are phnomenal, the draw distance is intense, the world is extremely detailed and character 
 models are also detailed... But still stiff. The gore is obsesivly awesome... I hate to say it 
 but way better than Gears of War's gore. 
  
  Sound 
  The audio is awesome and at times funny. Awesome because of thr orcestial scores and funny when 
 your killing everything with 1930"s jazz in the backround. The music just makes the world fun. 
 I really icks in at the plot moments to, and the jingle at tranquility lane is halious, you'll 
 know why if you've played it.
  
  Story 
  The story makes you feel... well how ever you want to. You could be the biggest S O B every and 
 just be a jerk and kill everyone and nuke everything and not save D. C. or you could lay low and 
 just go with the flow and help save D. C. OR! you could be the wastlands gaurdian angel and save 
 everyone from the terrony of the Enclave.
  
  Fallout vs. Oblivion
  Fallout: big map, many indoor areas.
  Oblivion: Big map, little indoor areas
  Fallout: Amazing 
 graphics
  Oblivion: Desent Graphics
  Fallout: Sidekicks
  Oblivion: not so much
  
  Graphics: 10 
  Sound: 10
  Story: 10 
  Fallout vs. Oblivion: Fallout 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JuggaloZero
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 10, 2008 6:50 pm PT
Review:  O. k. so here I am, almost 9 years after first installing Fallout 2, completing the long awaited 
 sequel to one of the greatest games I've played. To set one thing straight, as a fan of Fallout 
 2 (and to a lesser extent Fallout 1) I don't consider this game Fallout "3". They did a decent 
 job of recreating the world of Fallout into a 3d form, however lack the subtle humor and random 
 yet fun pop-culture references of Fallout 1 and 2. Fallout 3 does make some successful attempts 
 at humor, but usually just falls flat.
  
  The graphics are really quite good, and are greatly improved over Oblivion. Though at times the 
 physics engine seems a bit off (kill a running yao guai, it will some-how fly up 20 feet in the 
 air no matter how you kill it) . The VATS system is a fun invention and provided this player flashbacks 
 to the old days of using aimed shot in Fallout 1 and 2, however, it's useless at a distance and 
 a necessity at close range. The voice acting is lackluster, though forgivable considering all the 
 lines of dialogue they had to record, Liam Neison being one of the few exceptions to this, which 
 only made me wonder why they didn't give him more dialogue.
  
  So now we come to the only real flaw I could find with this game: the story. It isnt horrible, 
 but it also wasn't great. Definately not as great as it could have, and Should have been. I did 
 most of the side quests, but not all of them, and yet i didnt receive any special videos showing 
 the results of my individual actions (so much for the reported 200 endings....) 
  
  (Spoiler alert, kind of)
  
  Now, I played through as a good guy and decided to activate the 
 purifier instead of Lyons, so I'm not sure whether you can or cannot convince her to do it, but 
 i don't think there is any way to continue playing after the final main-story mission regardless 
 of your choice. So you dont get much except a short video summarizing your character based on their 
 karmic choices.
  
  (end of spoilers)
  
  So, do All the side-quests you want Before you get to the final mission. And there are a Lot of 
 side-quests to keep you entertained for hours upon hours, which makes up for the rather short main 
 storyline and it's ending. 
  
  Bethesda, though not completely capturing the great dialogue and atmosphere of Fallout 1 and 2, 
 did make a great game, and will hopefully make a sequel (though with a better finale and most quests 
 in the main quest line) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CMunster80
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 10, 2008 11:18 am PT
Review:  I am writing this game as a huge oblivion fan but someone who did not really play the first two 
 Fallouts. 
  
  This is a really good game, the world is extremely large and the weapons choices are vast. Character 
 Customization is good as well, though you don't have quite the number of options you had with Oblivion. 
 The story is decent, if not slightly mediocre and I sometimes find myself needing to wonder off 
 of the main path of the story in order to get some more time in the game. Graphics are excellent 
 if not maybe just slightly dated but are still very good.
  
  For all of the good things in this game, and their are alot of them I discovered that their is 
 maybe and I mean maybe 100 hours of gameplay in this game. I am talking do every side quest and 
 hunt down all the goodies in the game. You probably could stretch it over 100 hours but not quite. 
 However, if you play alot of games anymore you know that 100 hours for your 60 dollars is a very 
 good deal especially given your choices of good/evil/nuetral paths. 
  
  Overall, I recommend this game if you are looking for a high quality RPG along the lines of Oblivion. 
 If you didn't like Oblivion you won't like this game but if you did you will feel at home here 
 even if it isn't quite as deep as Oblivion.
  
  Only wish their was more side missions and things to do with this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sixgears2
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 10, 2008 10:43 am PT
Review:  I have been wathcing Fallout 3 with great anticipation for a long time. I still regard Oblivion 
 as the best single-player only game ever made, so I had some lofty expectations of Bethesda for 
 this one. It may not quite measure up to epic Oblivion, but make no mistake, it is a very, very 
 close second.
  
  GRAPHICS - Fantastic. Gritty, creepy at times, and positively spectacularly detailed down to every 
 inch of the huge world. Dust devils swirl around you as the Wasteland yawns before you, pieces 
 of crumbling buildings litter the cityscape, and dark, cavernous tunnels are stuffed with blood 
 stains, rotted corpses and derailed train cars. The character models are the only possible complaint 
 here. It isn't that they look bad, they just look like the people in Oblivion, which was years 
 ago. It seems like Bethesda should have made some progress here, but it really doesn't effect the 
 game when everything else looks so amazing.
  
  SOUND - Again, amazing. You can hear dust blowing around in gusts of wind on the Wasteland and 
 the creaking and growning of old bridges and buildings in the city are perfectly implemented. Everything 
 sounds like it should, even the guns have a good clap to them, rare for an RPG. The music is hauntingly 
 hopeless and really helps convey the sense of aloneness and desolation that Fallout 3 seeks to 
 create. The creatures sound great too; hearing a feral ghoul's screams echo through a crumbling 
 subway tunnel is one of the most bone-chilling sounds you have ever heard in a game, gauranteed. 
 Voice acting is also top notch, if a tiny bit stale sometimes (probably due to the actors having 
 to read SO MANY lines of a dialogue) .
  
  GAMEPLAY - Whatever you want it to be. You can build your character up to be a guns blazing super 
 hero or a quiet, stealthy sniper. Regardless of what you choose, though, the gameplay is top notch. 
 There are hundreds of locations to explore, from the city to ruined power plants to other vaults 
 (go to Vault 106 if you are in the mood for a particularly interesting random exploration session) . 
 VATS is awesome (blowing an enemy into tiny pieces or removing a leg never really gets old) , but 
 unfortunately it becomes a bit of a crutch for the games janky free shooting. Outside of VATS is 
 where fallout faulters a little on the combat front. Enemies move very quickly and erraticly, and 
 as a result are sometimes almost impossible to hit without VATS assisstance. 
  
  This is a problem especially with harder enemies (Deathclaws anyone?) , because when your action 
 points are depleted, you are stuck with free combat until they replenish themselves. This often 
 leads to some frustrating deaths, and I usually just switched to the good 'ole Oblivion hack-n-slash 
 melee combat when my AP ran out rather than dealing with the shooting parts (my character is a 
 tank, though, and absorbs hails of gunfire like they are packing peanuts, so this may not work 
 for everyone) . Eventually you learn to work around it and to be fair VATS is the true focus of 
 the combat, but still the free-form combat could have used a bit more work.
  
  CONTENT - This is the big one for true fans of Oblivion or other open-world RPGs. Afterall, there 
 is no reason to have a gigantic world if there are only a handful of things to do in it. Luckily, 
 Fallout 3 doesn't disappoint on this front. The world is substantially smaller than Oblivion's 
 Cyrodil, but it is loaded to the brim with quests, locations, and "dungeons", all of which feel 
 unique and fresh. I spent over ten hours after stumbling out of Vault 101 just wandering around 
 exploring. During that time, I ran across Vault 106, which is a very in-depth experience considering 
 it is not a required place for the player to visit. I also came across a high school full of mutilated 
 corpses and cages full of skeletons, a church occupied by Super Mutants and their prisoners, and 
 a fortified dwelling hidden in the DC ruins. 
  
  But not all people like exploring without a goal to accomplish, and those people will be happy 
 to know that Fallout 3 has plenty of quests to keep you busy. Nearly everywhere you go has multiple 
 quests for you to take (both in-depth miscellaneous quests and smaller, but still enjoyable free-form 
 quests) . So far I have stopped a war between a robot man and an ant lady, helped someone break 
 their addiction to drugs, and released a pack of feral ghouls into a posh tower. All the quests 
 are unique, and there is a lot here to hold your interest for a very long time.
  
  The only complaint I have is the lack of guild-style quests. There are plenty of factions that 
 Bethesda could have used for these, and I miss being able to be a member of different organizations 
 and move up in those organizations like I could in Oblivion. Hopefully future DLC will fix this 
 issue, but in the meantime it doesn't really detract from the experience.
  
  All in all, Fallout 3 is simply a must-play game that any gamer should try. Maybe it's not for 
 everyone, but the depth, polish, and scale of the game make it worth your money and time. So go 
 buy it! Now!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: darkone321
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 9, 2008 9:08 pm PT
Review:  I swore I wouldn't write another review here, after they deleted my GTA4 review (the truth must 
 have hurt) , but I just had to review this game.
  First, I loved Oblivion.. and this game was the first title I have ever reserved (not at GS ;) 
 Support our local stores!) , so it's fair to say I was very excited to get my grubby hands on it.
 
  
  I blew through the main story in a little over 16 hours (huh?) , about halfway through it, I started 
 to wish there was more. As a FPS, it's slightly over fair. As a RPG, it's good. The main story 
 leaves much to be desired. I stopped caring early on, but yet I was pushed forward by the addictive 
 nature of this game, to see it through. The level 20 cap and the horrible ending, shot this game 
 in the foot. Yet I would still recommend it.. Strange huh?
  
  Beware of bugs... yes bugs.. My level 20 character was rendered useless by one. I promptly emailed 
 Bethesda and received a "canned" response.. Bethesda remains my favorite developer, but I feel 
 a bit let down. 
  
  If you like this type of game... Fallout 3 should be in your collection! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ivory_soul
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 9, 2008 8:39 pm PT
Review:  The Good: Captures the "all alone in a wasteland" feeling perfectly, lots of nice dark humor scattered 
 throughout, the Vault boy!, beautiful graphics and audio, a great story with lots to do, insanely 
 detailed, VATS is a unique way to combat
  
  The Bad: Loading between each place, some times you get too lost, all 200 ending are too short, 
 level 20 cap is a biatch
  
  The only way you're going to like Fallout 3 are for two reasons. 1. You loved Oblivion and 2. You 
 love the Fallout series. Otherwise you're probably going to hate the game and think it's "boring". 
 I say this because the game relies a lot on YOU finding out what to do and where you should take 
 your next steps. The game is 100% non-linear and features a perfect balance of FPS action and RPG 
 stat building. The game is more than just "Oblivion with guns" and the reason people say this is 
 because Bethesda uses the Oblivion engine for this game. Just like Oblivion you take quests from 
 people, complete them as you wish, you can be good, bad, or neutral in the world, you can find 
 mini-encounters or free-form quests that are separate from the main and side quests to unlock achievements. 
 I don't want to spend this whole review comparing this game to Oblivion since its it's own game.
 
  
  The first thing you'll notice are how amazing the graphics are. The Oblivion engine has been refined 
 and everything look amazing. Step out of Vault 101 and you're eyes will adjust from the dark and 
 you'll witness a beautiful yet desolate wasteland that leaves you wondering "now what?" Don't be 
 scared since the game does guide you a little bit so you aren't completely lost. Just wonder around 
 to find Megaton and just talk to people and you'll get quests eventually. Of course you always 
 know where to go for the main quests and every quest has arrows on your map that point to where 
 to go. You may see places on your map but you can't fast travel there unless you actually walk 
 around and discover it yourself. This forces players to explore the vast world of DC and really 
 get to know the place. There are two sections to the game: The Wasteland, which takes up about 
 70% of the game, and DC which is cluttered with metro stations, fallen buildings, and all the main 
 landmarks like the White House, Library of Archives, The Pentagon etc.
  
  The only way to travel around in DC is through the metro tunnels and I found this kind of annoying 
 since it may be tough to figure out which tunnel goes where. I just really can't express how amazing 
 the game feels and you really do feel alone and empty when you go through stores and buildings 
 that are completely trashed. With the melancholy music you sometimes get a bit depressed since 
 it's just so amazingly surreal. Thankfully Bethesda injected a bit of dark humor to keep you from 
 feeling this way and one way is with VATS. Vaul-Tec Automated Targeting System and it is one of 
 the main game play elements. Hit RB and you'll pause time and zoom in on your enemy and there will 
 parts of his/her body you can hit. The percentage is your chance of hitting that target, your AP 
 are your Action Points and each weapon takes a certain amount of them every time you queue up attacks. 
 If you do enough damage you can cripple a limb and either make your enemy drop the weapon, lower 
 their accuracy, or make them walk slower. Once you get to higher levels a few shots and you can 
 blow their head off in a heaping gory mess and it NEVER EVER gets boring. Sniping someone from 
 200 feet away and watching the camera fallow the bullet and having someone's head fall off their 
 neck is just so so satisfying. I played for 54 hours and never got bored of this.
  
  Of course you can fight in real time combat, but you don't get the advantages of VATS like critical 
 hit strikes etc. The game has many many weapons from mini-nuke launchers, rocket launchers, 10mm 
 pistols, combat shotguns, sledgehammers, hunting rifles the list just goes on and on. You can also 
 make your own weapons by finding schematics and collecting the items you need to build various 
 weapons like the Rock-It Launcher which lets you shoot anything you find, the Railway Rifle which 
 lets you shoot railroad spikes and impale limbs on walls. The game is huge amazing and awesome 
 and all of the combat is very satisfying and there are endless ways to approach a situation. Don't 
 like fighting? Use a Stealth Boy and sneak your way through places and plant live grenades in enemies 
 pants and watch them explode! Like fighting with your fists? Walk around with a Power Fist Glove 
 and bash your way through the Wasteland. Now that combat is out of the way let's get to stats. 
 Your menu is your Pip-Boy which is attached to your arm and features an easy to navigate interface 
 and is really easy to find what you want. You can level up to level 20 (which is lame since you'll 
 get to level 20 waaaaay early in the game and be maxed out) and you have several options once you 
 level up.
  
  You can add points to yourself like your medicine, small guns, big guns, explosives, speech, barter, 
 energy weapons, lockpicking, science etc. Then you get to pick a Perk (say that five times fast!) 
 and these are another unique game play idea in Fallout 3. There are over 40 perks BUT you can only 
 pick up to 20 throughout the game so choose wisely! Perks range from giving you more health, increasing 
 your regular abilities, automatically giving you another level, making animals in the world your 
 friends, revealing every location on your map, making you a law bringer and if you bring every 
 finger off a bad enemy to a special HQ you get caps (currency in the game) and good karma. The 
 stats are also effected by items such as Buffout, Jet, Mentats (post-apocalyptic drugs!) etc. These 
 add temporary effects and will get you out of a tight situation. You can trade and repair your 
 items with people around the city and become rich. You can also just shoot everyone in the cities 
 and get bad karma so as you can see there are 0 restraints.
  
  You also can pass time by "waiting" which skips hours, you can heal your crippled limbs by sleeping 
 or going to a doctor. Getting too irradiated? Take some Rad-Away! Getting addicted to a certain 
 drug? Go to the doctor! You can eventually get your own place in Tenpenny Tower and you can buy 
 things like workbenches, doctor stations etc. I just can't express how HUGE this game is from the 
 vast size to being able to pick up anything you see to use as ammo, trade, or sell. You really 
 do feel like you're struggling to survive in a hostile wasteland and that feeling never goes away 
 even after 100 hours of play. Of course you'll eventually conquer the wasteland and not be afraid 
 of even the strongest enemies in the game.
  
  Now there are issues with the game, but they're minor. There is loading between each section of 
 the game such as going from the main world into buildings etc. The level 20 cap is extremely annoying 
 and makes you quit trying really hard to find places to fight in, the game is really similar to 
 Oblivion and people who played the F out of that game will feel too familiar here and that's why 
 this game didn't get a 9.5 from me like Oblivion did because I've kind of "been there done that" 
 with this engine. While there are so many subtle things in the game like having followers (including 
 a dog!) , to the many types of weird enemies, to all the different people you can talk to its insane. 
 I could spend hours telling you about every location and person you meet. Just stop what you're 
 doing and go play Fallout 3 and you'll spend dozens and dozens of hours surviving the vast wasteland! 
 Go grab an Ice Cold Nuka-Cola and watch out for the hostile factions (Raiders, Talon Company Mercs, 
 Slavers etc) and good luck out there!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xanaris
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 9, 2008 3:29 pm PT
Review:  As soon as I started the game, I knew it was different. You don't start out just waking up on some 
 island, or walk up to a city and suddenly say "Hey, you know what? Im going to be a hero!". No, 
 you start out being BORN. Then it skips ahead and allows you to experience your life at a heightened 
 pace. While I wished that there would've been an option to disable the slo-motion bits after you 
 blow someone's head clean off in VATS, as it is somewhat irritating after you have done it over 
 200 times, the first couple of kills in VATS is very satisfying. The storyline immersed me, but 
 didn't feel very long. Fortunately, there are so many extra things to do in this game, to side-quests 
 and exploring, to just deciding to kill everyone in town for the fun of it, this is no one-day 
 game. I played for a week straight whenever I could, through an entire play-through of the game, 
 storyline and some other quests. I was astonished that right before I did the last quest, I saw 
 that I had only covered about 1/4 of the game area.
  *The Good
  -Atmosphere similar to original Fallout games.
  -Level of depth in game is jaw-dropping.
  -Number 
 of choices in game are something to talk about, and all choices affect the outcome of the ending.
 
  -Secrets, I found a crashed UFO and got an alien blaster!
  -Level of gore is disgusting.
  *The Bad
  -Insane amount of stimpacks.
  -Game somewhat too easy when you reach lvl 13+, I took 
 out 6 super mutants and a behemoth, on top of a few raiders at lvl 16 and Hard difficulty.
  -Companions other than Fawkes are WAY too easy to die. As soon as I got Dogmeat, he rushed up to 
 a raider and got his head blasted off by a shotgun.
  -Some glitches within the game, most notably at times outside, for some reason, black streaks appear. 
 Not sure if it's just my copy or not.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DoubleD-luxe_22
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 9, 2008 1:54 pm PT
Review:  This game is awesome, plain and simple. I know a lot of people say this about a lot of video games, 
 but you're gonna be hooked from the start. The game is extremely huge, size-wise. It'll take you 
 a 30 minute trip just to take down the sovergn agent, so you'll want to take your sweet time and 
 buy a couple of kilos of cocaine if you want to stay up long enough to beat the main storyline 
 in less than one night.
  On top of the 15 or so hours you'll spend on the main storyline, there is a vast amount of side 
 missions, along with a crap load of collectables that will keep you in your chair for at least 
 another 10 hours of raw gameplay. That being said, I don't get the big deal about Fable 2, this 
 game blows it out of the freaking water.
  My actual score for this game is a 8.7/10, but this is how I feel more than a 9... Other than GTA 
 IV, Gears 2, Little Big Planet, and definately MGS4 ;) , I can say that this is some real hot sh-tuff.... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: denomaniac
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 9, 2008 11:02 am PT
Review:  Fallout 3 has came. This game had a cliche saying of : "Oblivion with guns". Wherever site or magazine 
 you went it said: "Oblivion with guns". I agree. But it isn't exactly OBLIVION with guns. It's 
 something more. I admired Oblivion, and still play it, but Fallout 3 was something more unique, 
 since no game till now could mixed the combination of FPS and RPG together so uniquely, and enter 
 it in such a massive world. Welcome to Vault 101.
  G R A P H I C S : 9.5/10
  The setting is just amazing. The post-apocalyptic wasteland is presented so realistic, that I believe 
 no-one that has this game didn't just mouth "wooow" when they saw the wasteland for the first time 
 after exiting the Vault. The models are pretty good, but can be done better since I know what Bethesda 
 is capable of. But the guns are the best. Somehow the graphics are a bit downgraded if switched 
 to Third-Person , but that's why this game is preferred on First Person.
  G A M E P L A Y : 9.5/10
  The VATS system looked disappointing before the game came out. Everyone 
 thought it would make the game easy and you could win everything in a breeze. But it is excellent! 
 If there was no VATS then the gameplay would be dull and clunky, even though it is still a bit 
 clunky even now, VATS makes a cinematic cutscene to kill your victims and heads, limbs, hands etc 
 can be chopped off ... with style, and you can endure damage as well, but in slow motion. The perks 
 are amazing and give unique ideas , and a variety of skills are in the game to show how detailed 
 and addicting this RPG can get, since it is more of an RPG at heart than a FPS. The AI can be glitchy 
 sometimes but the story is quite good. Doesn't disappoint like most of the games this year. (e. g. 
 Fable 2)
  L I F E S P A N : 10/10
  Quests to quests to quests to quests, and side quests!
  It will take a lifetime to beat this 
 game 100% especially on the xbox where you also have the achievements. It is a game where your 
 grandchildren can play in years to come. Fallout 4 will come out and you'll still be playing this.
 
  
  More Details...
  + The setting. It's THAT good
  + Worth the wait , Bethesda Style!
  + Nuclear mushrooms!!!
  - XP glitches.. Hope they get fixed...
  - AI glitches
  - Gunfights 
 are sometimes.. bland...
  
  Conclusion:
  Ghouls? Guns? Gore? Game of the year?
  Yes. Yes. Yes. and Hell Yes.
  Some games are worth to be bought , this game is more like $600 
 than $60. Gold medal to this!
  
  Final Score: 10/10
  
  Must Buy/ Buy , Rent, Avoid / Definitely Avoid: Must Buy
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: reymainevent
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 9, 2008 9:15 am PT
Review:  this game is really good it sucks you in and you wont be able to put the freaking controller down 
 as you will spend hours upon hours just playing this freaking game. the only minor problem about 
 this game is the graphics i mean its good but not that good. i was expecting mass effect type of 
 graphics. and also the main character doesnt talk like mass effect does but i guess if this freaking 
 game was like mass effect then it would have been called Fallout Effect well who am i kidding this 
 game kicks major *bleep* 
  
  Reasons for buying this freaking game:
  1.) lots of blood and guts filling up the screen when you decide to end someones life in the game.
 
  2.) the game is huge (like me) you can spend about a dozen hours exploring the wasteland and still 
 find yourself overwhelmed how big map is.
  3.) like oblivion you can do anything and part take any quest in any order that you wish
  
 
  Reasons for not buying the freaking game:
  1.) you dont like playing rpgs and basically life is one big rpg anyway.
  2.) too long of a game 
 and you would be fired for getting to work late from staying up all night playing the game.
  3.) oblivion with guns 
  
  overall, this game is very addicting and should be owned whoever 
 likes rpg 
::::::

::::::
UserName: janeksz
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 9, 2008 7:02 am PT
Review:  Looking retrospectively at the past Fallouts the developer has taken on a very hard task to redo 
 the game in such a way that it would astonish the gamer. They had accomplished just that by including 
 both the 1st and 3rd person view. The game itself present the world just as you would expect it 
 to look after a Nuclear fallout. Dark and a Wasteland. I am glad they have included the targeting 
 system just as the way it have been used in previous games it adds to the overall action of the 
 game along with the hit point bar now not allowing you to be going gun happy like Rambo throughout 
 the game. The HP gives a strategic way of fighting the different enemies instead of just going 
 in guns blazing. So far game is amazing. The variety of weapons is great thus far, I am still 1/4 
 in to the game but hope that the amount of ways to destroy your enemies will increase with the 
 progress. I look forward to down loadable content on Xbox Live to add to the game, maybe a weapons 
 patch that would increase the number of them in the game? Overall go get the game!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shugday
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 9, 2008 5:49 am PT
Review:  This game is simply huge. With so many places to visit conquer, fight, sneak, and talk your way 
 through one wonders if it is worth the time to see it all. Indeed, with only a dozen or so creatures 
 and factions to interact with one would think that that the path through Fallout 3 would eventually 
 devolve into mindless mutie blasting. However, every encounter has a uniqueness too it that definitely 
 keeps the game interesting. In addition, even as your character progresses in levels literally 
 ANYTHING in the game can kill you at ANY time. I will admit that with the right combination of 
 skills and perks it becomes very very easy to handle just about any situation you run into in the 
 game. The story while being of a familiar "it's time to save the world" is fun and filled with 
 a very compelling sense of urgency. The side quests are good enough that my only complaint is there 
 should be more of them, Oblivion style. 
  
  VATS is the one thing that I'm conflicted about... while it is a terrifyingly good time watching 
 yourself blast apart anything that moves in bullet time slow-mo (for a real good time be sure to 
 take the Bloody Mess perk) it does remove the need for any first person shooting skill and breaks 
 down your win or lose to simple percentages. 
  
  My only real complaint is that the experience scale and maximum level advancement are not scaled 
 to the size of the game. For instance, after having completed only 12 of the miscellaneous available 
 quests and 3 of the main quest story line I'm already maxed out on possible levels. Now I'm not 
 advocating removing the level cap since it is easy enough to add skill points with the various 
 items available literally everywhere, I would say that the level advancement could easily be slowed 
 down so that items like skill books, Bobbleheads and new levels MEANT more...
  
  Plus, even though this is a very different game from Oblivion it could have very easily included 
 Faction Quests similar to the Guild based quests in Oblivion. Granted it would have added many 
 more story lines to something that is already huge but is definitely an area that was underdeveloped 
 in my opinion. 
  
  Above all, Fallout 3 has been a blast to play and despite the fact that it could be better, it 
 doesn't NEED to be. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rakan959
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 12, 2009 12:40 pm PT
Review:  Fallout 3 offers a good mix of a horror FPS and a post-apocalyptic RPG. You can shoot in V. A. T. S. 
 mode, giving you an edge on your enemies, but the time spent within it is limited to how many Action 
 Points you have, so no matter what you do, you will have to take matters in to your own hands. 
 
  Although Fallout 3 offers over 100 hours of game play (with the DLC Bethesda has announced) , it 
 lacks the aspect of multiplayer, and does not have a co-op mode. The game is also fairly unbalanced 
 in difficulty. In the beginning of the game, you have to scrounge for ammo, and spent more time 
 actually getting ammo than using it. In the second half of the game, you have a lot more ammo, 
 making the game significantly easier.
  One of the great aspects of Fallout 3 is that you can build a team. Depending on your position 
 on the Karma spectrum (doing good deeds gets you good Karma, killing innocent people or stealing 
 gets you bad Karma) , you can recruit different people to go on your team. This makes it tough, 
 because if you want to play with good Karma (there are achievements to play through with different 
 Karma) , there aren't many people who you can recruit to join your team. 
  All in all, I think Fallout 3 is a great game, and I would recommend you rent it first to check 
 out the game play. I wasn't a big fan of Oblivion, but I loved Fallout 3. For others, the same 
 might not be true. 
  GAMEPLAY - 10/10
  GRAPHICS - 9/10
  STORY - 10/10
  OVERALL - 9.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rekunta
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 9, 2008 5:04 am PT
Review:  I'm a bit taken aback by Fallout 3's quality. It's so enjoyable and addictive to play as to be 
 sinful. I won't bother with explaining the setting or story as most of you who are reading this 
 already know it, so let's just get down to the meat and bones, shall we?
  
  Make no mistake, Fallout 3 is not an FPS, it's a RPG at heart and it pays careful attention to 
 those elements that matter most. It's a completely open and non-linear experience. At the core 
 of this are character skills (lockpicking, science, small guns, bartering, etc.) that you choose 
 at the start and continually pour level up points into to mold your character to fit your needs. 
 Want to resolve conflicts diplomatically? Up your speech skill. Want more bang for your buck and 
 equipment at shops? Then the barter skill is where it's at. Want to become a proficient thief? 
 Then place your points in lockpicking and stealth. This player customization is at the heart of 
 what makes Fallout 3 so amazing. There are also what is know as "perks", of which you are able 
 to select one per level. Some examples are Cyborg, which increases your science skills and makes 
 you better with laser weapons, or nerd's rage, which increases how much damage you inflict as well 
 as lowers how much you receive if your health drops below a certain point. The customization goes 
 on and on. It's a game that bends itself to the gamer's wishes and allows multiple approaches to 
 many situations in the world. And for the most part it works beautifully.
  
  And what a world Bethesda has created. This is a world of desperation, of survival. It's tangible, 
 feels lived in, and most importantly it DOESN'T feel like you are the center of the universe (aside 
 from the occasional broadcast by a particular DJ on the radio.) NPCs have their own conversations, 
 and you'll stumble upon random battles everywhere among other things. Detail has been paid the 
 utmost attention to everywhere. It's stunning. Main characters are unique and memorable, which 
 lends weight to the harder moral decisions throughout, and many of the choices have consequences 
 to some degree or another. Every decision calls for special consideration, especially early on. 
 
  
  To be honest, Fallout 3 does takes a bit of patience and perseverance to get your character up 
 and running (well, depending on your starting stats it may be sooner than later.) Early levels 
 are best spent exploring and gathering, which works great because in addition to gaining experience, 
 money, and equipment, you'll stumble upon side-quests which aid in leveling up quicker. Most of 
 these are very in-depth and lead to new areas with new quests that help open up the world further. 
 I spent a good ten hours on the game before I even did the second main story mission, and by that 
 time I was around level 8. I've heard complaints from people who were annoyed by having to struggle 
 to stay afloat, but personally I loved it. It's the nature of the game. 
  
  The presentation is overall very well done. Graphics are fine but not exceptional, and there is 
 some late texture and building pop-in at times. The sound mostly consists of FX with the exception 
 of a radio, but it only has very few songs, all golden oldies. The voice acting is very well done, 
 with one exception of a particualar shopkeeper in Megaton. Let's just say I'm grateful Bethesda 
 was gracious enough to allow me to blow her head off. Her voice acting is completely out of place 
 and does NOT fit in with the feeling of the game at all. I don't know if it was some sort of joke 
 to hire that actress (I can only imagine voice acting that bad is intentional) , but she's horrible 
 and it doesn't work. On another note, one thing I did wish for was weather. Does it never rain 
 in D. C.? Is it always overcast? Seeing the expanse of the wasteland being lit up by a lightning 
 storm at night wandering around would've been neat to see. 
  
  Combat is great. You are able to pause the action in V. A. T. S. (Vault Assisted Targeting System) 
 and target individual body parts and weapons, and each part can be crippled and/or broken to various 
 effect. It allows for an element of strategy and planning. The fighting outside of V. A. T. S. is 
 average at best but workable. There's a cinematic camera whenever it's used which is cool, but 
 it's indecisive and does get tiring after a while. All in all though the combat is very satisfying 
 and never gets old.
  
  As incredibly cool as Fallout 3 is, it definitely has its faults. This game is BUGGY, make no mistake, 
 and the save option is your best friend. There's various texture glitching, game freezes, moronic 
 NPC companions, random occurrences (weapons won't fire after entering a building) , and more. Considering 
 how large and dynamic the world is it is understandable however nevertheless annoying. If you forget 
 to save often you will pay for it at some point. Another thing that I found bothersome is that 
 you have SO much freedom from the get go that you more than likely will stumble upon areas where 
 side quests take place without actually having initiated the quest beforehand (by talking to a 
 certain character, etc.) More than once I went and explored an area, then found out about a quest 
 later that occurs in that same place, and the novelty would be gone. Nothing major and not quite 
 the game's fault, but still a bummer.
  
  But these faults are a smudge on the surface of solid gold gaming. Fallout 3 is not to be missed, 
 and even if you're not really a RPG or FPS fan it's still worth a rental. It's atmospheric, immersive, 
 and one of the most engrossing gaming experiences to come out in years. 
  
  Don't miss it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: taz3174
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 9, 2008 1:22 am PT
Review:  well i did not like oblivion very much but maybe i didnt have or should i say make the time to 
 actually play it. but after playing fallout 3 its opened my eyes to the depth of story and the 
 fate of the character that i create placed on my gun hand . might just go back and play oblivion 
 after all, in saying that i still have not completed fallout and i'm currently off main quest track 
 facind deathclaws in the darkness of tunnels.
  i find some things as dark as deadspace which also is a great game i gave this a 9/10 purely the 
 fact that i have not finished the game yet. i have wandered around and have discovered 78 locations 
 and i know there is plenty more ! i also get remimded by mates thatoh oblivion is soo much bigger" 
 man i say ' BUT DOES ITS HAVE A GUN?" no!!!! does it have a FAT BOY? NO!!!
  i love guns i love fps and now i love rpg's. this has made my top 5 games only with a selection 
 of GEARS... mass effect... cod series..... crysis..... fallout3 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Raikoh_
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 9, 2008 8:20 am PT
Review:  Fallout 3, developed by Bethesda this time around, you take the role of a young vault dweller. 
 You'll play through various stages of your childhood starting from your birth. Then, due to some 
 issues, you'll find yourself escaping from Vault 101 and in search of your Father.
  
  The first thing you'll notice once you're outside of the Vault is the beauty of the Wasteland. 
 Fallout 3's outstanding art design combined with it's beautiful graphics synthesize a perfect, 
 desolate world. The dark, melodious music only adds to the atmosphere but, if dark and depressing 
 doesn't do it for you, tune your pip-boy into one of two radio stations.
  
  Survival in the Capital Wasteland is hard. Water and food is irradiated, the wildlife had mutated, 
 and raiders are around just about every turn. Let's not forget about the mercenaries, super mutants, 
 feral ghouls, and robots that have gone haywire. Ammo is hard to come across and your armor and 
 weapons slowly deteriorate over time. The world has also resorted to using bottle caps as a new 
 form of currency.
  Combat in Fallout 3 feels a little bit clunky but don't worry, there's always V. A. T. S. The V. A. T. S. 
 system uses Action Points (AP) like previous Fallout games and makes battles just a little bit cinematic 
 as limbs are blown off your opponents in slow motion.
  As you explore post-apocalyptic D. C. and gain levels, you'll be allowed to increase a wide number 
 of stats and select a new perk with each level. Perks can open up new options during conversation 
 or will allow you to kill people in their sleep. Some even let you trade in body parts for cash. 
 Others may just increase your stats or allow you to put points into your S. P. E. C. I. A. L. stats. 
 You'll occasionally come across a bobble head that will also increase your stats.
  Quests can be completed in a number of ways. You can talk it out peacefully or go in guns blazing. 
 Sometimes even a mix of both. But be warned. With every action there is a consequence. For every 
 bad thing you do, your karma will go down, but for every slave you rescue or bottle of water you 
 give to a poor wastelander, your karma will rise.
  
  One issue, however, is your karma doesn't exactly effect the outcome of the ending. Just your final 
 choice in the end.
  Another, is the fact that the game just ends. Unlike Oblivion there is no picking up where you 
 left off at the end of the game. Once it's over, you either have to revert to your most recent 
 save or start over from scratch.
  The game has some minor glitches and freezing issues. So, make sure you save a lot just in case. 
 And the characters feel a bit stale as well.
  
  If you haven't played Fallout 3, you really need to. Bethesda has outdone themselves with Fallout 
 3. It's got less content than some of their previous titles, but offers a more intense, immersible 
 experience. No play through will be the same and there's a great amount of replay value. Even if 
 you're a newcomer to the Fallout series, you won't have any problems exploring the desolate ruins 
 of this post-apocalyptic world. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nickdastick
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 8, 2008 5:08 pm PT
Review:  Okay, so I have to start this off by saying I have had no interest in playing Fallout 1 or 2 and 
 I didn't care much for Oblivion because it had some issues that I couldn't get over. Having said 
 that, I have to say Fallout 3 is one fun game! I started playing it and couldn't put it down for 
 hours! It isn't perfect by any means but it's very addicting, especially VATS.
  
  Graphics: The graphics are pretty good but I actually didn't think too much of them. I know it's 
 a huge world and whatnot but it still wasn't that detailed and it can be overly bland at times.
 
  
  Gameplay: I would like it if I could get my character to RUN once in awhile... I just feel like 
 the player moves slower than he should be especially when trying to get away from people. It was 
 also kind of annoying how bad my character was at shooting. I know I have to up my small weapons 
 category but still... when I pull up the gun and aim right at the bad guys head, I would like my 
 bullet to go there instead of 50 ft to the side... Especially since the bad guys can put a bullet 
 in me from miles away sometimes. Other than that though, the gameplay is fun especially when it 
 comes to VATS. I LOVE VATS!!! If VATS was a woman, I would marry it, that's how much I love VATS. 
 Just a great system all around.
  
  Audio: Voice acting is solid and I like all the different things people say. The gun sounds are 
 awesome as well.
  
  Overall this is a fun game. It does have some annoying issues but I would be lying if I didn't 
 say this game was addicting as hell! You owe it to yourself to check it out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RedEyeNinjai
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 8, 2008 12:32 pm PT
Review:  Haven't done a review in a wile. I'll start with this game. Really was a game worth waiting for. 
 The weapons are just made really well the cool thing is that you can make your own weapons like 
 the famous bottle cap mine or lunch box mine what ever you want to call it. Which is a lunch box 
 that has a cherry bomb and a **** load of caps and a sensor to make it go off when some one gets 
 close to it. Any way back to me explaining the games story. Most of the story is about you trying 
 to find your father that escaped from vault 101 which is were you were borne and grue up. which 
 is funny as hell because you play as a baby for a little bit. the game is pretty much like oblivion 
 just you get guns and explosives. the creation of your character is pretty much like oblivion to 
 just only one character you get to create from is humane you dont get to pick any of the other 
 weired characters like super mutants and ghouls. Which sucks because I wanted to be a super mutant 
 since there resistant to radiation out in the waste land capital. The waste land capital is what 
 the people call the world out side the vault. Which is the world we live in now cites and cars 
 and lakes, rivers and stuff. you pretty much want to avoid the lakes and rivers you dont half to 
 avoid them completely you can swim in them and go under water and stuff but you dont want to stay 
 in water to long you will start to get radiation sickens do to the bombing of the waste land capital. 
 I'd like to explain more but its kind of hard to do with this game its just amazing of all the 
 stuff they put in this game. If you have any questions about some of the things in the game just 
 ask i've already beat it. sorry I wish i could explain more you will just half to get it to find 
 out i consider it the best RP game of the yer. the only thing i hate is once you beat it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: matthew1245
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 8, 2008 3:59 am PT
Review:  Fallout 3, was one of the most anticipated games of 08, but did it live up to the hype?
  
  Well I do believe that fallout 3 is 
 and will be the best game of 08. V. A. T. S and pipboy are very unique, and bring the game together. 
 All in all ... ummm BUY THIS GAME! well when you have the money. and like everybody says, its like 
 if oblivion and bioshock had a baby, and that baby had a baby with Angelina Jolie.: P Oh and btw, 
 IT DOES GET HARD. NO LIE, THIS GAME CAN BE VERY FRUSTRATING AT TIMES DUE TO DIFFICULTY, BUT IF 
 THIS BOTHERS YOU, THEN JUST CHANGE THE DIFFICULTY!! 
 
  
  PEACE, AND WATCH OUT FOR THOU MUTANT!
  mwmwmwmw mwmwmwmwwmwmw mwmwwmwm wwmwmwmw mwwmwmww wmwwmw mwmwmw
  wmwmw mwmwmwm wmwmw mwmwmw mwmwmw 
 mwmwmwm wmwmw wmwmwmwm 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ScrooU2
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 7, 2008 9:02 pm PT
Review:  The game is your basic FPS with a Oblivion feel to it (same devs - duh) but very... upgraded. For 
 one although you still have the basic melee weapons such as swords, knives, and hammers (etc) you 
 now have GUNS. The targeting system is just a simple reticle in the screen but you have whats called 
 the VATS system which pauses combat, and let you choose either what body part to attack (you can 
 figure out which body part does the most damage or what happens if you say, shoot a leg) . There 
 are so many weapons you can choose from but ammo can be limited and your weapons can still break 
 (although you can repair them yourselves if you have items of the same type since you can break 
 down one item to repair another) . Oh and you can also make custom weapons like a flaming sword, 
 a dart gun, or a weapon that shoots rubbish you find in the world. All in all I haven't even bothered 
 with the main quest yet since as soon as I finish one sidequest it seems I'm immediately tasked 
 with another one I can't refuse. Watch out for that radiation! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LordChimera
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 7, 2008 5:54 pm PT
Review:  This is Oblivion set in a distant, gritty future with a brilliant sence of 50's B-movie satire 
 AND GUNS lots and lots of awsome GUNS. Theres still a wealth of melee weapons aswell though. Total 
 freedom enables you to make your own way around a huge war-tourn city and the wasteland that surrounds 
 it. The game is set in a post apocalyptic Washington DC. The map is packed full of horrible, mutated 
 creatures, raiders and mercenaries. From giant super mutants to over-sized, radioactive scorpions. 
 If you're looking for a map packed with natural sunshine and beauty like oblivion then you've come 
 to the wrong plac hehe. The wasteland is arid and the city is in ruins due to the nuclear war that 
 took place prior to the games story. If you liked the exploration and freedom of Oblivion and you 
 liked the satirical humor of Bioshock, this game is a MUST. top notch. It will have you shouting 
 W T F !!! ??? in shock to laughing out loud at the awsome gore and funny dialogue. This game is 
 absorbing thought. It has messed with my college work badly. You have been warned. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jnunzx
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 7, 2008 1:58 pm PT
Review:  There is no light and then suddenly a cry and light pours in all around you and your father is 
 there. Its a: do you want to be a boy or girl. Being born in the first person, a video game first 
 and one of many innovations seen in Fallout 3. The way Fallout three is able to blend usually boring 
 task of a tutorial into gameplay that fits into the context of the game is extremely impressive 
 and shows a creativeness that other developers should take note of. Fallout three allows you to 
 sink into its virtual reality as would your own life; for instance, everyday I go home, put my 
 guns and gear in the locker, my food and alcohol in the fridge, have my robot tell me a joke, have 
 something to eat and drink, play with my dog, and finally gat some sleep. Now I know what you are 
 thinking, nerd, well first off screw you, second of all I don't care because this game has something 
 for even the most broish of gamers. If you are not in to having a house and all the stuff you can 
 also play the game like an FPS. For instance, if you are attacked by a gang of raiders and you 
 kill them the last raider will start running and your dog will chase him. This is more fun than 
 you can possibly imagine, it like a hunt, the raider starts getting tired and trips over rocks 
 and other obstructions which gives dogmeat a chance to attack him and you to slow him down with 
 a shot to the leg and then go up close and blow his head off with a shotgun.
  
  To sum it up, buy this game right now. It is appealing to gamers of all levels and will give you 
 hours of enjoyment. The story can lag at times but there are so many other things to do you will 
 never even realize it. Remember, I have only played a small fraction of the game and I love it 
 to say nothing of the graphics which provide an environment which is not only visually stunning 
 but provides a level of interaction that is off the proverbial scale. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: weetam777
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 7, 2008 1:30 pm PT
Review:  Never ever been into these type of games but what the hell thought i'd pick it up and im surprised 
 by actually how good this game is.
  
  Graphics 10/10
  As soon as u step out that vault wow just sucks you in and makes you want to explore
  
  Sound 
 8/10
  30's music rocks lmao.. however some character voices dont suit their appearance
  
  Gameplay 8/10
  
  Vats is great.. however playing it like a normal FPS seems awkward and the 
 3rd-person view looks like ure guys moon walking forward
  
  Story 10/10
  
  Great story... you start out in vault 101 where youre dad has raised u etc.. then you're dad leaves 
 and u escape into the "Capital Wasteland" in search for him.. where you go to different places exploring 
 and triggering quests etc.. u basically cant go wrong its URE game and U play it the way U want 
 to
  
  MUST BUY 
::::::

::::::
UserName: korey22
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 7, 2008 9:16 am PT
Review:  When you start the game you are a baby learning how to walk :D. Then you grow up to i think 10 
 and get to learn how to shoot. When your 19 you take the G. O. A. T. Its a test to give you skill 
 for example raise Big Guns or Explosives ETC.......... Its like Oblivion raising you sword or magic. 
 When your 21 your father escaped and you take out some guards to get the feeling of the kill. Great 
 way to make you familiar with the game. Its a little disappointing in beginning but grows on you. 
 BeSure to save before you exit if you have never played oblivion and ALWAYS  
 game is very detailed and way better than oblivion. Fallout3 is more detailed and has the word 
 F*CK every 10mins. This game is not made for Little ears at all. It great to see head and arms 
 and legs flying off when you shoot. The Vat system is great and easy to use. If you have never 
 heard of it, It like ans auto shooter It gives you a percent of chance hitting for example Torso. 
 If you get the critical its a 1 shot kill or you can cripple the target. The guns are very kool 
 for example flame thrower. I hope you liked this review :D. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: devver
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 6, 2008 5:40 pm PT
Review:  I have been waiting for Fallout 3 for about a year now and have been a big fan of the originals 
 and then I got this game... First of the game freaking blew my MIND! I heard a lot of stuff about 
 people hating the game and I just have to say that its all about the way you play the game. You 
 can play it as a hardcore first person shooter, or as a third person action adventure game. Now 
 lets start reviewing.
  
  Graphics: I played the XBOX 360 version of the game because of the lure of the downloadable content. 
 Now I heard the PS3 version got a 8.5 (from Gamespot) but my friend had that version and I didn't 
 see any difference. Everything is detailed from the rubble of the Capital Wasteland to the exploding 
 of the Mini-Nuke. Sometimes I experienced graphical glitches and the game disc would make weird 
 noises when I put it in but that a minor setback that would only happen occasionally.
  
  Sounds: The sound was pretty good from the different sounds of the guns to hitting different objects. 
 The voice actors you might recognize for the Elder Scrolls Series but the voices fit the characters 
 perfectly.
  
  Gameplay: Fallout 3 is a different game from others, except for Elder Scrolls (sorry i'm bring 
 that up so much) , you simply can't just run in and start shooting everything that moves that well 
 get you killed faster that you can say "Vault 101". At the beginning of the game I could not find 
 any ammo so I was struggling to surviving and taking drugs to reduce my radiation and killing mole 
 rats with baseball bats which is my idea of fun and actually feels like your trying to survive 
 in this Wasteland. The re-playable factor is good with many ending to the good and bad side.
  
  Story: The story in this game is superb, excellent, 10/10, of course its probably easy to make 
 the story because of Fallout 1/2. From the beginning to the end you will be wondering what will 
 happen next. 
  
  You should not miss this game it will be on my game of the year list. A 9.5 out of 10
  
  Thanks 
 for Reading. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NaturalXX
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 6, 2008 5:36 pm PT
Review:  Ahhh, Fallout 3 what would we do without this game? It's a masterpiece overall. You play as a man 
 who was lived in a secured "home" called Vault 101. But when your dad leaves the vault, and doesn't 
 return, you set out to find your dad in the wasteland of Washington D. C. You carry a item on your 
 wrist which is called the PipBoy 3000. This is where you level up and pick perks that'll either 
 help you in some ways or turn you evil. Like the Elder Scroll IV: Oblivion game, this is an open 
 world Role-Playing-Game. But let me say this first: Fallout 3 is not Oblivion with guns. It is 
 totally different. Fallout 3 is more dark, intense, and most of all, intense. Which brings me to 
 my classification. It is "guilty pleasure". You can either be good and save men and women who live 
 in the outside world or be evil and end their lost miseries. You kill the creatures and help the 
 men and women, you are neutral. Now the fighting system is where Fallout 3 is at it's hype. You 
 can use something called VATS. What this does is pause time and choose which body parts you want 
 to shoot at and then watch the gory scene take place. Now you have to kill the creatures normally 
 to build up your VATS meter to use it. You can either play in first person or third person. To 
 me, first person is the way to go. Fallout 3 also comes with a variety of weapons. From pistols 
 to semi-nuclear bomb launchers, it keeps the intensity of the game flowing. You can also create 
 you own weapons by finding materials when you are walking around. So let's recap:
  
  GOOD: Story is fantastic, great weaponry, top notch 360 graphics, VATS makes you feel superior.
 
  
  BAD: Third person is a little clunky.
  
  With all of the new games coming out this holiday season, Fallout 3 is a must buy. Now since the 
 rankings only go up .5 points each, this is not a 9.5. Fallout 3 deserves, and receives, a 9.8 
 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Markuspunker
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 6, 2008 3:05 pm PT
Review:  If you enjoyed going through the wilderness, drawing your sword and slicing up some little imp 
 or using bolts of lightning to fry an imperial guard just for kicks, then youll enjoy this. this 
 game, is pretty much oblivion, same graphics engine, with polish, with a similar gameplay style 
 but with added features and an immense story line.
  
  it takes play about 200 years from now after a nasty nuclear war between china and america. it 
 got so bad that residents in washington D. C. escaped into these underground shelters called "vaults". 
 you start off as a newborn baby (litteratly) and then go through stages of your childhood, which 
 in that time you can determine your character's looks, strenghts and attributes. your dad escapes 
 leaving you under threat from vault-101 security in which you have to escape, once you do, your 
 quest begins in search for your father. all you find in the outside world is a desolate wasteland 
 which was once washington, from a nuclear war.
  
  in fallout 3, the combat system seems abit awkward. the gun battles are useless unless you use 
 your V. A. T. S, a system that can pinpoint a targets weakest limb or best chance of getting a shot 
 and blam, you can dismember the limb, but you need to be experienced with the weapon you use for 
 it to be more effective (i. e. an assult rifle comes under "big guns" catagory) . melee attacks can 
 seem useless too but once you play your cards right you can get by.... just. 
  
  you can purchase items such as guns, armour or blueprints of guns/bombs that you make yourself, 
 and you need to scavange for these parts which can be anything such as a toy car. but they are 
 quite pricey and the currency is bottle caps, seriously, and they can be scarce at times. also 
 your weapons can get wear and tear very easily, and merchants are only able to fix a certain percentage 
 of each item, guns especially, are expensive, so be wise with ammunition and the weapon you use.
 
  
  in fallout 3, when you take damage you need to eat food and drink water to replenish your health. 
 however, since this is a post apocolyptic game, they are also irradiated, so as you eat and drink, 
 you get radiation poisoning and eventually die. you can cure the radiation with medical supplies 
 or see a doc (which again costs about 100 caps but that can be alot at times) however you will come 
 across clean food and water, but they are quite hard to come by and since its anarchy, dont expect 
 anything for free without a bloody fight.
  
  the enemies show just how bad nuclear radiation is, you'll come across many enemies like giant 
 ants that breath fire, funny, but deadly. youll also come across ruthless raiders who can be an 
 advantage for scavanging weapons, armour and other supplies. some enemies require a stratedgy before 
 attacking as they can pull nasty surpirse.
  
  their are many ruins around. youll come acroos old houses that are still standing somehow. and 
 even after the war, peole built their own towns and even on a ship. 
  
  bethesda put their imagination onto screen brilliantly once again. although at times the game can 
 be hard and awkward to play, its another game that offers hours and graphiclly, its gorgeous. it 
 has that feel of isolation before being attacked by a clan of raiders and the fights can get very 
 bloody. with more features such as levelling up you can increase stats that are more of an advantage 
 as you progress through and at some point i think this game will get alot more smoother once you 
 get to grips with the attributes, but it starts of quite difficult.
  
  Do play this game, it can get quite addictive and will pull you in, but it starts off challenging, 
 which is a good way to get the ball rolling.
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: sac9
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 6, 2008 1:46 pm PT
Review:  IN most aspects fallout 3 is a great game. Good story and it wil keep you playing for a while. 
 But there are just somethings that lets down this game. The first thing is that you cant keep on 
 playing this game when it ends. That is quite annoying since have the fun of these games is to 
 run around and get a super high level and play it all. SO you will just have to not do the main 
 levels. Also the gun gameplay is not that great. Vats is just awesome but when you dont want to 
 use that it is kind of dumb. It can be annoying that you can not seem to find ammo and ammo is 
 so expensive. So if your trigger happy you will not sucseed in this game. Half the fun of the game 
 though is to shoot things. how your guns can break to is really annoying. Unlike oblivion shop 
 people are not skilled enough to repair your weapons to the max. they repair it half way. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Helrazr_live
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 6, 2008 1:19 pm PT
Review:  I'll make this one short for a few reasons and I'll try to keep it basic. I know when I look for 
 reviews I just want to know what people think. If I needed/wanted to know about the plot and how 
 many multiplayer (if applicable) I'd just read the back of the case. With that said I'll start 
 by saying that I knew NOTHING of the story or even that there was a 1 and 2. (Other than the 3 
 giving me some indication) I have a salesman where I work that had both and was all about this 
 new one. He knew I was a gamer nerd and so he asked if I was planning on getting this along with 
 the 9 other games I'm buying this season. (Great season BTW) I checked it out and was impressed 
 until I found out it was an RPG. I have always been anti-RPG. Never liked having to build STRENGTH 
 and AGILITY and all that crap. I just wanted an instant reward. So... why am I rambling on and on 
 about co-workers and other crap that has nothing to do with this game? Like I stated previously... I 
 just want to know what people think. With me being someone that has been so against the RPG games 
 I would be the least likey to like this game, much less give it a perfect 10. I've given a few 
 games perfect 10's this season and I think devs are realizing that there is some stiff competition 
 out there so they damn well better stay in the game. Pun intended. I don't feel like going into 
 the graphics and all that. The graphics are what you'd expect from next-gen games. I do love how 
 EVERY SQUARE INCH of the map is accessible and explorable. The only kinda bad thing (and it's more 
 goofy than bad) is the 3rd person view. Your character's movement is unnatural but I play in 1st 
 person anyway so I don't ever see it. I'll conclude by saying this I've have all the COD's, Halo's, 
 Gears 1 and pre-ordered 2, GRAW's, Rainbow 6's, Silent Hill Homecoming, Dead Space, getting World 
 at War, and a library of about 30 other games along with these popular titles. If I could choose 
 only two to take with me to an island this would be one of them... AND I DON'T EVEN CARE FOR RPG's! 
 Great game. I don't even have to tell the RPG nerds out there because I'm sure they alreay got 
 it but if you're on the fence about games this season since there are so many... you should get 
 it. It's worth the 86 plus change I payed for the LE and then some... Have Fun! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Foehammer111
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 6, 2008 1:10 pm PT
Review:  THE GOOD:
  Outstanding story
  Amazing visuals and sound
  Huge detailed world
  Fun combat
  Balanced good/evil choices
  Balanced skills
  Infrequent loading
  Tons of replay 
 value
  Excellent use of the Pipboy
  Fallout refined
  
  
  THE BAD:
  Talking head dialog
  3rd person camera
  Minor graphic issues
  
  
  Fallout is both one 
 of the best RPG's ever made, and also one of the least played. This is partly because of the series 
 primarily being released on PC's, but also because when the first game was released in 1997, another 
 famous RPG was also released: Final Fantasy 7. With more gamers playing on consoles than PC's, 
 and the series not having a major release in 10 years, it's no wonder some people haven't played 
 a Fallout game before. That's all about to change.
  
  Fallout 3 technically a sequel to the first two games, but it doesn't directly connect to them. 
 The game takes place in an alternate future. After World War 2, the Cold War never ended. As the 
 Earth's oil resources started to dry up, political tensioned rouse. In 2077, a nuclear war started 
 and in a few hours the world was destroyed. Your ancestors were one of the few that were able to 
 escape to large underground fallout shelters called Vaults.
  
  The game starts literally at your character's birth inside Vault 101. Your mother dies during child 
 birth, and your father, the Vault's doctor is forced to raise you on his own. The first hour or 
 so of the game takes place during your childhood in the vault, and acts as a tutorial for the game 
 as well as setting up your characters stats. It's a great way to show how life is inside the sealed 
 Vault, and sets up future events. Eventually your father leaves the vault, and you must venture 
 into the unknown nuclear wasteland of Washington DC to find him. Without a doubt, Fallout 3's story 
 is the strongest in the series, and one of the best in video game history. It's masterfully written, 
 and has lots of memorable characters.
  
  Fallout 3 is made by Bethesda, creators of the Elder Scroll series and most recently Oblivion. 
 It's also the first Fallout to be released on consoles, other than the non-canon hack & slash Fallout: 
 Brotherhood of Steel. One of the complaints about Fallout 3 from "hardcore" Fallout fans is that 
 it amounts to Oblivion with guns. If someone was to just watch a video of the player walking around, 
 and talking with NPC's I could see how they would jump to this conclusion.
  
  But beyond the way you explore the world, and talk with NPC's there is nothing Oblivion-like about 
 this game. Fallout 3's character progression is based around experience, not using skills. Since 
 there is a level cap of 20, and you're only given so many skill points to assign per level, it 
 is impossible to become a master at everything. Therefore, you need to plan out what type of character 
 you want to be.
  
  Skills in Fallout 3 will be immediately familiar to people who have played past games in the series. 
 There are combat skills (small guns, melee, energy weapons) , support skills (medicine, hacking, 
 sneaking) , and social skills (bartering, speech) . These skills allow you to make any type of character 
 you want. You can be a power armor wearing brawler, a smooth talking pacifist, a long range sniper, 
 or anything in between.
  
  Every time you gain enough exp to level up, you can assign skill points to any of your skills, 
 and choose a perk. Perks are special bonuses that affect your character. Examples include "Bloody 
 Mess" that increases the gore and lets you do additional damage, "Scoundrel" that gives you bonuses 
 to barter and speech skills, or "Lead Belly" that increases your resistance to radiation poisoning.
 
  
  You can check all of your skills, items, and stats through your wrist-mounted Pipboy 3000. When 
 you press the B button, your character will swing the Pipboy into view. From here, you can manage 
 every aspect about your character. It's a clever way to tie the Pipboy from past Fallout games 
 into the current setting while still making it feel like something tangible that's always with 
 you.
  
  The first two games in the series were 2D and played from an isometric view. Fallout 3 has changed 
 to a first person view. Although there is a third person camera, it's pretty much worthless for 
 anything other than seeing what your character looks like.
  
  Just because the game had guns, and is viewed from a first person camera doesn't mean it's a FPS. 
 Combat plays out in real-time, but you'll waste a lot of ammo, and die a lot if you play the game 
 like a twitch shooter. This is a true RPG at heart, despite its presentation. Combat is based around 
 your character's stats. So even though you might have the crosshairs over an enemy's head you won't 
 always get a headshot.
  
  Instead you are strongly encouraged to use VATS (Vault-tec Assisted Targeting System) in combat. 
 When you press the LB button, the game will pause allowing you to target specific body parts on 
 your target. Attached to each body part is a percentage to hit. If you shoot someone in the arm, 
 they'll drop their weapon. If you shoot them in the leg they'll move slower. Once you issue your 
 commands and press the A button you're treated to a 3rd person cinematic showing your kills. It's 
 very gory, and works really well. The only minor complaint is that when you're in an enclosed space, 
 the camera can get stuck, and doesn't always show you a good perspective on the action.
  
  When you take damage in combat, there are several ways to heal yourself. The most readily available 
 method is to drink or eat. This will restore hit-points, but most sources of food and water are 
 irradiated. Thus you need to carefully balance your need to heal versus getting radiation poisoning. 
 If you become too irradiated, your stats will start to be affected, and you'll eventually die.
 
  
  Another way to heal is to use stimpacks. These are sort of like morphine, and will restore HP just 
 like drinking. However, like all drugs in the game, if you take too much of them you can become 
 addicted. This forces you to maintain a delicate balance between healing and addiction, and further 
 immerses you in the game world.
  
  Like past games, you can also get NPC's to help you in combat. But you can't issue orders to them, 
 and they tend to do their own thing. It's not bad, but it would have been nice to be able to have 
 them target a specific enemy. As it works, they're really just a distraction for the enemies.
 
  
  Combat is fun, and works well, but the real meat of Fallout 3 is the choices you make. There were 
 glimpses of this in Oblivion, but it was difficult to play as an evil character since the story 
 focused on fighting evil. Fallout 3 doesn't have this problem. Since the story focuses on finding 
 your father, there's plenty of room to be good, evil, or neutral. It was also possible to be everything 
 to everyone in Oblivion. You could be the leader of all the guilds at the same time, despite the 
 fact that they openly conflicted with each other.
  
  This is not possible in Fallout 3. When you make choices, it opens new doors to you, and also closes 
 others. For example, if you decide blowup the town of Megaton, all the quests in that town are 
 forever closed to you, but you also gain access to Tenpenny Tower. If you don't blowup Megaton, 
 you won't be able to get into Tenpenny Tower, but you'll reap other rewards.
  
  Visually, Fallout 3 is stunning. Although it's not the prettiest game on the 360, it is certainly 
 one of the best. Perhaps best of all is the atmosphere. The world of Fallout has made a beautiful 
 transition from 2D to 3D. Fallout 3 really captures your imagination as a utopian "world of tomorrow" 
 that has been blown to Hell. 
  
  The world is rich with destructive detail. It looks lived in, and has seen some very hard times. 
 Characters and enemies don't shine as much as the environments. Partly because of some stiff animations, 
 but this is easily forgivable considering how great everything else is. There are also some minor 
 clipping, and pop-in textures, but these are minimal, and don't detract from the game experience.
 
  
  Fallout 3 is a masterpiece when it comes to the audio. The sound effects are brilliant, and have 
 weight to them. Gunshots echo, and have a nice thump to them. NPC dialog is much more realistic 
 thanks to more voice actors than Oblivion had. The ambient sounds are likewise great for the setting. 
 No birds chirping or majestic waterfalls here. Instead, you'll hear the desolate wind blowing, 
 rubble shifting underfoot, and the creaking of long dead trees.
  
  The musical score is also outstanding. Towns have their own theme to them, and the title music 
 is haunting. But best of all is the licensed 30's and 40's music. You can tune into several radio 
 stations to hear tunes from a dead world. The song selection is brilliant, and most carry a ironic 
 quality thanks to the wasteland setting around you.
  
  The only downside to the audio is that Fallout 3 falls into the same "talking head" trap that Oblivion 
 did when it comes to dialog. All dialog is presented in a first person view, with the NPC saying 
 something, and you choosing a response. It works, but it's too simple. It certainly doesn't live 
 up to the standards that Mass Effect set for dialog. Not a major issue, but sometimes dialog can 
 drag on.
  
  Once you complete the main story arc in Fallout 3, the game is over. No continuing to play after 
 the ending. This gives your choices real weight, and also makes it impossible to be both good and 
 evil. The choices you make are forever with that character. Because of this Fallout 3 has lots 
 of replay value. 
  
  It will take the average gamer around 20 hours to complete the main story, but if you play the 
 game multiple times you can easily put 100+ hours into this game. I played Oblivion for 150+ hours 
 across two characters. Since Fallout 3 is a much larger world than Oblivion with more things to 
 see and do, I wouldn't be surprised if people play for 200+ hours.
  
  Fallout 3 is without a doubt the best RPG on the 360. It's an easy win for RPG of the year. Fallout 
 3 is a solid contender for overall Game of the Year, despite a strong list of games like GTA4 and 
 Gears of War 2.
  
  When it was first announced that Bethesda was making Fallout 3, and lot of series fans were concerned 
 about the fate of their beloved Fallout. Would the game be just a post-nuclear clone of Oblivion? 
 Would it be all action, and no RPG? Would it abandon the humor and theme of the first two games, 
 and just be another crap of a game like the last console Fallout.
  
  Well, the verdict is finally in. Fallout 3 not only lives up to the standards set by the last two 
 games, it goes beyond and sets a new high water mark. This game does the series honor, and is far 
 better than any other game in the series. Fallout 3 is a gem of an RPG, and should not be missed 
 by any fan of the genre. Its setting, incredible story, and high replay value will attract new 
 fans to the genre.
  
  Fallout is better than ever, but war never changes.
  
  
  STORY  10
  GAMEPLAY  10
  GRAPHICS  9
  SOUND  10
  VALUE  10
  OVERALL  10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skidudeone27
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 6, 2008 11:54 am PT
Review:  Fallout 3 without a doubt is one of the best games of the year and next gen. I was first a little 
 hesitant about buying this game because after all I knew very little about fallout and the storyline. 
 But I needed an RPG and i loved oblivion so I gave fallout a try. 
  
  Fallout 3 has given me everything I need in a game. Action, comedy, adventure, graphics, shooting, 
 heads and bodies that explode. The detail of Fallouts world is jaw dropping and you will be def 
 giving up hours of your time to explore it. The ruins of DC and the war torn landscape really freaked 
 me out with the idea of a nuclear war that this could be what the world could look like in 50 years. 
 
  
  The story in this game draws you in and no matter how hard you want to go explore a cave, a town, 
 or downtown DC you just keep going back to the main questline to see what happens. The story is 
 very good and very very addicting. 
  
  What I love most about this game is the ability to do whatever you want. You can go into DC and 
 not even do the main storyline. You can just kill people, raid towns, steal, sabotage, ignite a 
 bomb in the middle of a town. There is alot of replay value in this games as every time you start 
 anew you can play it a million different ways.
  
  For anyone in need of an RPG for the winter or is a fan of fallout and also oblivion I recommend 
 this game highly. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Old_Captaini
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 12, 2008 7:19 am PT
Review:  Have you ever been played Oblivion and said to yourself, "If only I had some frag grenades I could 
 solve this problem SOOO much easier!" If your answer to that Question is yes then play Fallout 
 3! Being an older gamer and having grown up during the cold war, with the spectre of nuclear armageddon 
 hanging over my head, this game resonates with me much more so than Oblivion. Very immersive.... great 
 characters, great story and lots of dark humor that younger generation may not get. VATS system 
 distinguishes the combat..... first person combat is just so-so, but you will find yourself using 
 both depending on situation.
  
  You will find yourself making choices with very real consequences that affect the progression of 
 the story. I can definitely see myself playing through this several times with entirely different 
 outcomes.
  
  Of course be reminded the overall story, though extremely well done, is pure apocalyptic fantasy. 
 As grim as the Fallout world is, in the true aftermath of a full scale nuclear war you would be 
 playing as a cockroach. Surviving humans, if any, wouldn't look so well fed, even the tattered 
 remains of cvilization reflected in the game would be absent, and downtown DC would be a glass 
 table top. However that would be a lousy video game, so I'm happy to suspend my disbelief and enjoy 
 the heck out of this game.
  
  Even if you have never played any other RPG.... play this one. It does so many things so well you 
 just won't be able to stop playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: codeman5533
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 6, 2008 8:13 am PT
Review:  i played this game and at first you start off well coming out of ur mother and name your character 
 choose the sex and progress from 1 till 21 u get to kno the vault and start to make ur own decisions 
 on how to play and whoose side to be on and as u make friends and enemies be good or bad tough 
 or wimpy w. e u want to be its pretty much possible it was a little bit confusing but as the storyline 
 progreses and you get to understand what happened and why the vault was made also why ur father 
 lefted u get pulled in with the emmense world deep storyline and eye wattering graphics so pick 
 it up try it out and if u even slightly liked oblivion you will def like this or if ur just into 
 roll playing games this is a game for you. no matter if your 15 or 50 there is something that everyone 
 will like about it from making bombs to launcing teddys outta rocket launchers its pretty fun 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RJtheShadow
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 6, 2008 5:32 am PT
Review:  THIS is the game I have waited for all my life.
  A game of survival and seeking answers.
  Where scavenging is rewarded and no longer frowned upon.
  
  This is my first Fallout game I 
 have purchased,
  and its got me good. The choices, the freedom, the places...
  
  When you want to move your mind of the story, go explore.
  There's alot to see. Lots to scavenge, 
 lots to choose, many to kill or spare.
  
  Aside a few specific key characters, anyone is (permanently) kill-able.
  Sick of doing that quest? 
 Kill him and get your reward if he has it on him.
  
  Smart move to replace the classical 'good-bad' or 'holy-evil' with a karma system.
  Alot of different 
 loopholes, its fascinating, honnestly.
  
  The array of weaponry is astounding.
  A satisfieing array of bullet-weapons, and when you think you've seen em all, a compareable array 
 of laser weapons. Its deep, and I like it that way.
  
  I already love free-roam games, this one just made me alot happier.
  Can't wait to come home 
 to play it again. ^^ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: itsreiko57dudes
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 6, 2008 4:31 am PT
Review:  I have to believe that most of the people out there that hate this game are under the age of 18, 
 there is so much story and the fallout universe is such an interesting setting and this game makes 
 it feel real.
  
  Graphics- 10, everything looks awesome, the setting, the attention to detail is incredible. Blood 
 looks great and 3rd person over the shoulder works really well, I think more people would use it 
 if crosshairs were set to off.
  
  Sound- 8, some of the weapons sound underpowered and the music really isn't my style but it fits 
 into the fallout universe and adds to the setting. the ambient music is just ok
  
  Story- 10, the transition from vault life (assumed) sissy to shotgun and missle launcher wielding, 
 wasteland traversing badass doesn't quite fit but the people in the wasteland and their quests 
 and stories are awesome. they all have unique personalities that you would expect in such a place.
 
  
  Tilt- 10, I do consider myself biased, i really love this game. not until fallout 3 have i ever 
 considered a game to be better than final fantasy 7, but the originality and quality of this game 
 surpass anything else i've ever played.
  
  Replay- 9, the good and evil aspect, and the fact that there are so many different choices and 
 things to do in this game, make sure not to overwrite you vault exit save!
  
  Buy this game today. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: g3noc1d3r
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 6, 2008 1:08 am PT
Review:  When i first heard about fallout 3 i was kinda puzzled in some ways as i heard about having fps 
 elements in a game like elder scrolls 4 oblivion but surely in a since i new it would not be like 
 halo or anything else like that and what now has come and stands before me has to be one of the 
 most ambitious titles of the year and i was wondering about it so now here goes my review. First 
 off the story is basicly one moment everything is fine and dandy then stuff happens like earthquakes 
 and things that destroy everything and turn it into a wasteland full of things i would guess u 
 would call monsters others yea and then u are trying to survive in this time since u were a kid 
 back then and u are growing up through this which is very influential which is the basics of this 
 game u choose whether or not to be good or evil throughout the game it changes how people react 
 to u it can even make the game harder hey guys guess they were right karma is hell and so is fallout 
 3. Okay with all that stuff takin care of the graphics in this game are very well done the art 
 design is fantastic and the environment is lush and rich with color. Overall the graphics are very 
 amazing except with a couple of things such as texture pop ins and such but that is forgivable 
 also i noticed plenty of bugs throughout playing the game but that wont get in the way either. 
 The sound is great there are lots of great sound effects and the voice acting is top notch most 
 of the time. Now the game play is basicly what makes this game unique as it follows the perspective 
 of a fps and thats how u fight u might think wow ill just run around and kill everyone like halo 
 that wont work here first off yer slower also u might want to consider aiming at something other 
 than the head as it calls for strategy and if u aim for the legs or arms u might slow or knock 
 them down or even get the weapn out of there hands in all the gameplay is very well done in the 
 way it affects yer choices like fable and how the shooting is done is exellent also u will meet 
 very interesting bosses as well so anyway i highly recomend fallout 3 as it is one of the best 
 games of the year. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chektee
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 5, 2008 11:10 pm PT
Review:  Let's get the things i hate out of the way first:
  
  1) Unwieldy Close Quarter Combat interface.. it is surprising hard to hit the enemy at close range, 
 not to mention the damage done.
  
  2) Inconsistent Weapon Damage.. A hunting rifle does more damage than a AK-47 at mid range? I can't 
 switch between single shot or auto mode for assault rifles? My precious mini-gun is next to useless 
 for close qtr assault? Man, this blows.
  
  3) Choppy frame rate 
  Frames got all chopped up when I was at the Jefferson Memorial, trying to *spoiler* rescue Daddy.. 
 and intermittently during the long walks in the country as well... really frustrating when you 
 are attacked by a pack of Yao Guai and you can't retaliate or run because it's all grey polygons!
 
  
  4) "Real Time" Combat
  I really missed the turn-base system and the isometric view of the world... but I must say, this 
 FPS-mode makes for really exciting exploration and man, I really love the mood and ambiance of 
 the game. But for combat.. this sucks big time. 
  
  What I do like is the immersive storyline and the whole sense of 'epic-ness' in such a huge huge 
 world. This may not be the sequel I was hoping to see, but still it is a true spiritual successor 
 to the fallout pantheon. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: reevekg
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 8, 2008 4:00 pm PT
Review:  *Please not this is not a game any typical shooter fan who plays games like gears, cod, halo will 
 understand and appreciate because it's so much more advanced, complicated, and beyond that and 
 therefore infinitely more rewarding as it is a game that leaves you to use your brain to go wherever 
 and do whatever you want unlike most shooters that force you in a certain direction with relatively 
 small maps without requiring brain thought. This is what makes it great and all the more meaningful.
 
  
  That being said, the scope of this game is unprecedented and mind-blowing. Makes little and uninteresting 
 maps in games like Halo look like a joke, no offense and I'm a hardcore fan of that series supposedly 
 lol.
  Anyways, F3 is a highly immersive, engrossing, interesting, and down right one of the most rewarding 
 games ever created.
  It's a very engaging and interesting story something like a bioshock for say as it gives you that 
 kind of feeling of greatness lol.
  Anyways I could go on....
  Simply put though it's one of the best gems ever and a must for any RPG fan.
  Well done Bethesda, 
 I'm looking forward to your future work lol but frankly I'm too busy with this sensational game 
 to even think about that.
  Lol bottom line this is a masterpiece for any RPG fan who appreciates and understands a more unique 
 game like this than a typical shooter.
  Get this now, it is better than, Fable, FC2, and all the other holiday games combined.
  Lol Gears 
 2 is another story as that game should be bought as well. I personally think this is better though, 
 much more rewarding and gives you more bang for your buck as that's just another shooter in the 
 end of the day and a slightly revamped version of gears, nothing revolutionary/interesting or new 
 but that's still good.
  
  Bottom Line: Fallout 3 is a very powerful and rewarding experience as expected from the creators 
 of oblivion.
  Definitely in my top 3 for Game of the Year, if not straight up GOY, it's that good.
  A masterpiece 
 for sure, with very few faults as glitches and the such but not enough to touch the experience. 
 This is an intelligent reviewer for a change and I'm telling you that you need to play this game 
 at the very least. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZiggyHaloX
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 5, 2008 12:23 pm PT
Review:  Infact, it very nearly climbs on top of Oblivion. 
  
  The game gets you going fairly quickly after your father disappears mysteriously and you set off 
 to find you're dad, but it's not as simple as calling the emergency services, because all of the 
 landscapes are barren and are mainly a habitat to zombies and creatures of such. So right off the 
 bat you're introduced to a massive world without any boundaries. Combat can be really easy but 
 infuriatingly hard so I gave it's difficulty a just right, ignore that. The world isn't actually 
 particularly pretty, and it has some framerate issues and it could have used some online play. 
 But putting those issues aside you're sucked into a world filled with gore and quests and some 
 laugh out loud moments which can really make you smile for a particularly long time and leave you 
 thinking "I didn't just waste 50 quid on some totally crap oblivion wannabe!" Which is satisfying 
 enough.
  
  So is Fallout 3 worth picking up?
  As much as I wanted to say this gamed sucks, it really doesn't, and anybody with a next gen console 
 who doesn't mind a variable of heads exploding or console RPGs, this is essential. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: john468
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 5, 2008 4:35 am PT
Review:  Well i don`t have much to say, good storylinesaving the world" the oldest trick ever :D, gameplay 
 is to easy even playing at hard with V. A. T. S. option it is almmost impossible to fail. Atmosphere 
 is incredible, they turn the game in Third Person Shooter combined with Role Playing and still 
 remains an unique storyline, Postapocaliptyc atmosphere and everything alse. And a little horror 
 scenes, like subways when you meet a Feral Ghoul ... etc. NPC are very good defined, with many choises 
 to dialog, you can have suscces or you can die from a stupid joke, a think it is a possible mistake 
 here because you never now what to say in front of many of the NPC.
  Do yourself a favor and be S. P. E. C. I. A. L. because for me it was the first game after 3-4 months 
 that captured me. Also be a good boy/girl and do a favor to people from Megaton, don`t blow them 
 up you will lose some good quest out there. Good work and hope to see an expansion... New York City 
 in ruins :D Thanks and again best regards to Bethesda 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scstephens
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 5, 2008 12:45 am PT
Review:  I'm a huge fan of RPG's. Fallout 3 does not disappoint in any category.
  
  The story is great and flows well.
  
  The combat is exciting, entertaining and at times, reasonably 
 challenging.
  
  The game opens itself to an endless array of play styles. This creates a high level of re-playability, 
 something I personally don't normally enjoy, but Fallout 3 has caused me to crossover and play 
 a game twice through, but in a different path. 
  
  I have two gripes. First is that it starts out very slow. Even when I played it through a second 
 time, there is no quick way through the early parts of the game. I wish there was a little more 
 flexibility here.
  
  My second issue is with the travel time between locations. The world is absolutely massive, with 
 so much empty space between locales. I would have rather have seen more stuff in between or the 
 world itself shrunken, to allow for less travel time. The ability to port to a location once discovered 
 is great, but there were a few times that the initial run to the place was mind numbingly boring.
 
  
  In the end, it is a great game and I highly recommend it.
  
  P. S. - I rented it and beat it twice over in less than a week, so it may lend itself to be more 
 of rental than a purchase, especially since there is no multiplayer to keep coming back too. Just 
 an FYI. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IntricateDetail
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 4, 2008 10:11 pm PT
Review:  A real, worthy sequel that is a more than adequate addition to the Fallout franchise.
  
  Players who have played Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion, will immediately recognize similarities between 
 Oblivion and Fallout. The skills, stats and AI are all very similar. Skills define your character 
 along with perks, which are special skills that you can only obtain a few times. The stats stay 
 about the same for the entire game unless you wear specific items or gain specific perks. The AI 
 is improved over that of Oblivion, with enemies reacting by taking cover, working as a team and 
 really getting on your last nerve when they manage to corner you.
  
  The visuals are absolutely gorgeous for a post-apocalyptic wasteland, character models are terrifying 
 and extremely well animated and the sound is sublime. The storyline is absolutely enthralling as 
 you start as a baby and work your way to adulthood, building a reputation in the wastelands as 
 you go.
  
  Fallout 3 is amazing and you shouldn't be reading this, you should be playing it right now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XxXMoNkEy
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 4, 2008 9:30 pm PT
Review:  Plus - 
  1. Contains the long hours you've ever wished for.
  2. Combat is very enjoyable, allows you to use your head to see fit what is right for one situation, 
 and what is wrong.
  3. Very nice progression system.
  4. Did i mention this game was really long?
  
  Failures - 
  1. Decent graphics run on 1080p.
 
  
  Personal Opinion.
  The game is horrible. Its not to much fun on its own, and its only good is firing stuff, even though 
 i've beaten the game, it seems like i'll never pick it up again (thank god i rented it)
  
  I thought it would be much more fun, much more innovative, and its complexity wasn't as good as 
 i thought it would be.
  
  I wished they added more, but its do this, do that, finish this for me, finish that, blow this 
 up, blow that up. Thats all it is.
  
  I enjoyed Dead Space much more, and i didn't buy it either, but i wished i did. I feel like throwing 
 in the game again, and starting all over, it contains the thrills of your life, same like Mass 
 Effect, TOTALLY UNDERRATED. That game is amazing, the story it told had my spine tingling, and 
 im just mesmerized by its story, to bad almost no game will be of that level.. hopefully when they 
 design system shock, i'll definantly be opted to buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jasonbourne415
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 4, 2008 7:05 pm PT
Review:  Hard to read maps, foes deal to much damage and food/medicine is far to scarce. Fallout 3 is an 
 excellent game perfect in all aspects except for the annoying waypoint they give. This way point 
 is very hard to read follow or understand, unlike in oblivion where they were straightforward. 
 Other flaw is finding a means to heal yourself which is difficult and you will often find yourself 
 in life and death situations where you have to get lucky on 8/50 bars of health and not die before 
 you can dispatch of your foes often sets of 2. Brutes are remarkably resistant to bullets and armory 
 is rather hard to come across. The game is also really seriously depressing after a while of playing 
 and can cause headaches. The pipboy is an intresting feature in the game, creative and  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: larsvedoy
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 22, 2009 7:32 pm PT
Review:  
  Fallout 3 is a game i have been eagerly anticipating. And
  as in most such instances, it is easy to be let down when
  the game dont quite match youre expectations. Playing 
 the
  game it became clear to me, that in no way was Fallout 3 the forward leap in technology that Bethesda 
 will have us all to beieve. I will rather say Oblivion without the polish,
  sadly i bought the buggy ps3 version ,and the experience
  i had playing it was, oh so close to 
 be an instant classic. My second playthrough will no doubt be a more
  enjoyable one, even if admittedly there is much to love in this game, there is also a **** to hate. Especially 
 in the ps3 version i suspect. Bugs and bad animations is the games worst faults, while VATS, the music, 
 and a womderful atmosphere is its high marks. There are some monsters in the game that is a bit 
 hard to svallow, and should have been left out , otherwise i think there is a great game in there 
 somewhere. but dont expect to get anything for free.
  Almost bethesda, almost. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cleanslate1982
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 4, 2008 5:10 pm PT
Review:  Fallout 3 is one of those games, that the more you play the harder it is to stop until you reached 
 your own personal goal. Whether it becomplete all the quests, getting all the achievements, or 
 just quickly running through the main story.
  
  Now Fallout 3, is very similar to Elder Scrolls 4: Oblivion. However, it's not. It uses many of 
 the same game mechanics and RPG elements. The way it does the main plot and the various side quests 
 is very much the same as well. However, the leveling system is very much different. In fact, this 
 game is more limiting, because you can only level up 20 levels, where in TES you can pretty much 
 continue to level up. Also, you only improve skills trough perks, leveling up, bonuses from attribute 
 points, and reading skill books. Where in TES you improve skills by constant use or "practice". 
 You can still make a pretty awesome balanced character, but they won't be maxed out. They also 
 have a Karma system, which is a lot like the KOTOR system, where your actions can make you more 
 good or evil. 
  
  Combat is good, however early on you'll be frustrated that bullets are doing little damage or you 
 are not shooting straight. That's because you get more accurate and efficient with each skill level 
 in that particular weapon. Also, a weapons condition has a lot to do with damage inflicted.
  
  Some of the enemies you encounter are extremely overpowered. Especially in melee combat. People 
 will say how awesome melee fighting is. It's not, it's like Oblivion without a shield. When fighting 
 a Deathclaw, you will want a shield. So if someone tells you to load up on melee, smack them. Most 
 every enemy has guns, and they are relatively smart. They will flank you, and sometimes ambush 
 you. Running up to these guys with a melee weapon will get you killed. Going toe to toe with a 
 Deathclaw, in pure melee, will get you killed too. At least you will beclose to death, and probably 
 attacked by a second one immediately after. Melee is best used in stealth, because it's quiet and 
 if you are undeteced you will give a critical everytime. Make no mistake you need to be able to 
 hurt enemies from a distance in this game. I really liked the VATS system, because you can take 
 down or wound an enemy, making a fight against stronger enemies or large groups of them easier. 
 
  
  The main story itself is really short. It felt like I spent 10% of my time on that, and 90% on 
 side quests. Normally you can tell when the end of the game is coming. This game seemed to end 
 right at it's climax. Right when you get there, you will will definitely say, "That's it?". I wish 
 the main story had a couple more missions, and was just a bit longer. It just seemed really easy, 
 and really short, when you compare it to the rest of the game. Good news is, the numerous side 
 quests, make for interesting stories as well. They are very numerous, and usually have a decent 
 length to them.
  
  These are my only real knocks on the game:
  - The save system. If you leave the initial autosave settings on, you can get screwed and keep 
 reloading into an impossible situation to fight out of if you don't manually save that often. On 
 the flipside, you remove the travel auto save, and you can wind up losing a few hours if you don't 
 manually save that often.
  - The VATS cutscenes. Sometimes they are great. Sometimes they give you a horrible shot of the 
 action. Most of the time, it looks sick!
  - Missing NPCs. Sometimes they just straight up disappear from the game. This is my biggest beef. 
 On a 360, you can't just plug them back in. On the computer version, you can. I just don't mean 
 you can't find them, I mean they disappeared. Two disappear in Megaton. One guy you sell scrap 
 metal to, the other is an important main quest character who you need to get information from. 
 Luckily, if you can hack his computer, this isn't that big of a deal. 
  - Buggy missions. Theres a mission in a town called Big Town. You have the option to teach them 
 to fix robots. Choose this option, and you can't complete the quest. Now you have to reload, which 
 brings up how often you manually save as an issue. I had to back track 4 hours to replay that mission. 
 That's how far back my last manual save was. My last autosave after I made the bad choice.
  - Enemies are a lot better shot than you. Some people might think that this is good. I don't, because 
 you pull up VATS and you have no shot at hitting them, and they are nailing you from a thousand 
 yards away without a sniper rifle. Luckily, other factors balance this out, to make the game a challenge 
 but not cheap. This is minor, but is frustrating when first starting the game.
  
  Overall, if you enjoy playing single player games. This game is a must have. Anyone who enjoyed 
 Mass Effect, or Oblivion, will love this game. I would use Oblivion more as measure of standard. 
 If you you had a hard time getting into Oblivion, or just didn't like it, then you should rent 
 this game first. Simply because it runs and handles much like Oblivion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: breakitapart
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 4, 2008 3:37 pm PT
Review:  From what I have experienced Fallout 3 is a great game. The multi-path questing option is the crme 
 de le crme here. The graphics are better than Oblivion and the VATS targeting system is reminiscent 
 of KOTOR. This is a very good game BUT the PIP boy Menu system was a downer- it is not as user 
 friendly and easy to read as Oblivions layout. This game is definitely a wasteland whereas Oblivion 
 was teaming with all sorts of life and creatures and weapons. The weapons in Fallout 3 are great 
 mind you but i am not sure if they are that varied yet. I need to play more to determine this of 
 course- but so far the game is solid and I look forward to further questing. 
  Any RPG fan should pick this one up but beware to play this around the little ones as there is 
 strong language in the dialogue and some glorious violence.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dannymac_1
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 4, 2008 3:32 pm PT
Review:  Very immersive, if not alittle too much so, easy to get lost in it all, but thats no different 
 to oblivion, once you get past the massive array of main story quest it all gets alittle more managable. 
 thankfully.
  not the flash bang shooter i expected knowing nothing about this game when i bought it. this is 
 a great game broken in parts, but to polish this game in all its size would take either too much 
 time, or too much money, they kept the release quick the cost average, and still delivered a massivly 
 enjoyable if not a little creepy game. tnesion in games gets to me easily i dont like the dark 
 in games, especialy not with suspencefull music, it actualy set my heart racing at points, and 
 bored me to tears in others. despite that i've kept playing and enjoying this emmense RPG.
  
  to wrap it up
  Pro's: 
  some fantastic plot and game mechanics.
  inovative
  fresh
 
  exciting
  great charater development
  
  
  Cons:
  freezes, always at a bad time :)
  annoying little parts of the map that map it hard to move around
  ammo is hard to find, but thats 
 part of the story. (just frustrating swaping between guns)
  not all it could be, doesnt meet its potential
  
  
  DO NOT ATTEMPT UNLESS YOU HAVE PATIENCE
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kvon403
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 21, 2008 7:40 pm PT
Review:  Fallout 3 is a very very awsome game it is the best in it's series to me. I read all these great 
 things about it and I thought maybe some of it was hype but it was'ent it is actually that good 
 when I first played it I could'ent believe it the graphics are great the gameplay is great and 
 the story line is well preatty great too. I wish it had online but it does not but still the campaign 
 or story is really good and accurate because you start as the baby and grow till you are 16 which 
 is and escapeing the vault is cool too. Once you get out into the outside world it is stunnong what 
 you see and I travelled a long time after I got out it takes a long time to travel until you unlock 
 quick travel by discovering locations and there are a vast amount of enemy's and enviroments to 
 explore and the power suit is one of the coolest suits to me and that's probably all I have to 
 say about this game so if your thinking o buying I would say go ahed and buy it for sure 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AzNGaNgStel2
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 4, 2008 1:49 pm PT
Review:  One of the best RPGs to date. hands down. very innovative. story is engulfing and Bethesda did 
 not dissappoint. Although I myself have never played a Fallout game before this is, this game has 
 impressed me hands down. I just received it Friday through the mail and I must say it is the GAME 
 OF THE YEAR hands down or atleast RPG OF THE YEAR. It has many sub quests for those who like to 
 travel and discover the world. It gives a lesson in history which is odd but makes it feel alot 
 more realistic as if you are really this person from the "Vault". The V. A. T. S system is awesome 
 and the game is a challenge. Bethesda has created another masterpiece and I dont believe that titles 
 like Fable 2 can compete. I strongly suggest this game to anyone who likes RPGs and if you liked 
 Oblivion you will love this game!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: superbowl54
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 4, 2008 10:26 am PT
Review:  I'll start by saying that the only RPGs in the past that I've cared to finish are Mass Effect and 
 Final Fantasy X, so me liking an RPG is pretty rare, but I'm 21 hours into this game I didn't even 
 notice the time fly by. I'm not going to get into anything that isn't already listed in the official 
 reviews, but I WILL say that the VATS system truly makes for awe-inspiring combat. I highly recommend 
 the Bloody Mess perk when you reach level 6 (the kills are made, well... a bloodier mess, plus 
 you get an extra 5% damage for any weapon) . The choices it gives you when it comes to being good 
 or evil can really make you think sometimes. I also am very drawn into the story and even the sidequests 
 are fun to go through. 
  
  My one complaint is how when not using VATS, sometimes the combat can seem very slow. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cookj71
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 26, 2009 12:18 pm PT
Review:  The Pitt Review:
  So the Pitt is considerably shorter in geographic territory and I haven't finished the story line, 
 but it seems to be as long as the original main story line, which is awesome!!
  But even more awesome is the content of the Pitt's main story line. I'm not going to say more, 
 but even the most jaded player should have some shocks and surprises. To me if the original Fallout3 
 story was this well written, Gamespot would have given it a 10.0 score instead of 9.0
  Last, if you take a maxed out character to begin the story you will still find things challenging. 
 In fact there are some, I chose the direct brute force method, approaches that I honestly believe 
 if you were not lvl 18 or higher, you would be looking at best a 5% survival rate.
  
  
  Original Fallout 3 review:
  So I hated Oblivion.
  The FPS like play without the FPS type effects. 
 The creature balancing so if you avoided a sewer rat at lvl 4 and went back to fight it at lvl 
 36 it was still a hard fight.
  
  The tipping point between this game and Oblivion is Criticals, body part targeting, and VATS.
 
  
  If Oblivion had these features it would become an awesome game.
  
  Yeah I may hate to criticals I incur but that's part of what makes this game so fun.
  
  Also 
 there are some scary moments when traps blow up and such the first time around and that is a nice 
 touch.
  
  Awesome game.
  
  So I have to add more here. 
  The repair system seems more legitimate in this game than Oblivion, but I still feel both are off. 
 Armor repair is realistic in Fallout, but most weapons once in good condition stay in good condition 
 considerably longer in real life.
  
  Oh, and I hate the fact with explosives in this game you can't blow locked doors open. The locked 
 out for good, until key or game element transpires when you have explosives is cheesy for non-reinforced 
 doors. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: liqdsky
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 4, 2008 8:20 am PT
Review:  bethesda does it again... its been a long time since morrowind and iv been waiting for another great 
 gameplay experience... i didnt think that morrowind good
  be topped but if u like the elder scrolls 3 than u will love this... the combat is fun and well 
 balanced.. the exploration is truly amazing... you can go anywhere and do anything just the way u 
 want to... every desicion has a differnt outcome.... you can truly play this game how you want to.... the 
 level up choices are great and the diolog is nice too... the weapon building is fun as well... all 
 in all this is deffinately the best game iv played all year aside from metal gear solid 4... its 
 too bad they dont have more great games like this..... if you like role playing and action look 
 no further.... get ready for a long game experience that you will never forget... this is a game 
 that when u start playing you will see that you finaly got your moneys worth on a video game.... wow 
 800 characters is a lot... anyways this game is awesom.... thanks for reading....... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hilamonster
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 4, 2008 7:42 am PT
Review:  I'm up to Lvl 7 and so far I'm pretty impressed with the overall gameplay. The destroyed landscapes 
 are impressive to behold. Not only are you looking for enemies infront of you, you need to pay 
 attention to the ground also (trip wires, frag mines and bear traps are waiting to cripple you) . 
 The game creators keep you on your toes. I find you can't just fly through the game. The game is 
 visually stunning, both the landscape as well as the use of lighting. I find myself wanting to 
 look at every detail as if not to miss something.
  
  I like the repair feature and that the weapon or armor only has so much of a useful life. Figuring 
 out what weapons work the best is all part of the experience of the gameplay. As much as I would 
 like to get into the combat armor, I'm going to have to make do with what I find and keep it repaired 
 to have the optimum effiency.
  
  It is definitely going to be a long winter trying to play the like of FO3, GOW2, Farcry 2, and 
 the new COD.
  
  Happy Gaming! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: meltheur
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 4, 2008 6:29 am PT
Review:  Fallout 3 is another another Bethesda RPG masterpiece with a captivating story and vision. With 
 gameplay and design reminiscent of their 2006 success Oblivion, Fallout 3 provides an addicting 
 and thrilling experience in which you can devote your time to the fantastic main quest or to the 
 exploration of the vast Wasteland and deep, rich world Bethesda has created. Stepping out of Vault 
 101 at the very beginning of the game and laying your eyes upon detailed and distant horizons spreading 
 out in every direction is simultaneously humbling and exciting. The possibilities are virtually 
 limitless. I highly recommend this game, but before picking up a copy make sure you're ready to 
 see a few hours disappear from your day... That being said, Fallout 3 is a game that everyone old 
 enough to appreciate head shots needs to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarkAxe54
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 4, 2008 4:52 am PT
Review:  Welcome to The Capital Wasteland. If you're reading this you are wondering if you should leave 
 the vault. Well, the Vault doesn't even compare to the Wasteland. Let's put it this way, if you 
 haven't left yet, you really need to see what it is like out there. Fallout 3 is the kind of game 
 that you can't possibly put down. Lets start with the combat. You can play the whole game as a 
 First Person Shooter, but there is also V. A. T. S. Which is Vault-Tec Assistant Targeting System. 
 Where you can freeze the game and aim on a specific body part and watch the carnage unfold in an 
 RTS manner. There is a 1st and a weird 3rd person view which i wouldn't recommend. There are so 
 many choices you can choose in every single mission in the game. Evil or freaking Jesus. So many 
 possibilities. The story makes sense in the way that is safe to let you explore, but still feel 
 that you are needed by the people around you. Great Audio. The graphics are the best I've seen 
 in any RPG. The world is so massive it's just begging to be explored, and with its own rewards 
 around every corner. You can always just stick to the main quest line, but if your like me you'll 
 want to explore and find every place in the game, and meet every possible character. The radio 
 is small but it makes the game so much more enjoyable and funny. So for everyone who is still on 
 the fence about leaving the vault i hope this helps you decide. Three-Dog Owwwwwwwwt! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nemesis123
Rating: 1
Date: Nov 4, 2008 4:23 am PT
Review:  Fallout 3 is a game which people have expected to be the holy grail of RPG gaming, that it would 
 take us to a holy land of fun and enjoyment. It would descend from the skies and takes us on a 
 journey of discovery in a post-apocalyptic wasteland. 
  
  Does it fulfill these expectations? NO!
  
  Ok, so the graphics are awesome and so is the combat, 
 which earns it the score I am giving it. 
  
  In short the plot is paper-thin, hideous and utter non-sense. The plot is on the Halo level, being 
 stuck up its on behind rather than actually pleasing the player which all games is meant to do. 
 I would rather play Halo 3 again. 
  
  It just seems to be a ripping off of the original games, and now it has been unleashed as a game 
 to please the small boys who think they are the vault-dweller. This game is not the Holy Grail; 
 rather it is a stab to heart of creativity. It is horrible poor and an abomination; in short I 
 would rather jump naked onto glass than ever play this game ever again. 
  
  Am I on the internet now?
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: gigasteam
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 3, 2008 9:11 pm PT
Review:  I have to say this game is so amazing I was up until I left for school playing it. You have NEVER 
 played a game like this. EVEN Oblivion doesn't compare. Lets start with character creation.
  
  It's not easy seeing yourself being born but after that, your father wants to see if your a 
 boy or girl. You pick girl or boy. Whatever you select he says and then you select your name. It's 
 not a dropdown list, you type it in. Then a man walks over to you with a Gene Projector, which 
 shows you what you will look like when your older. Thats where you choose what you want to look 
 like when your older. Then your mother goes into Cardiac Arrest and you are rushed out of the room. 
 The character creation process is very fun and creative, ranging from eye color to hair styles 
 to about 50 different beards. You construct your ENTIRE face to how you want it.
  
  On to Gameplay.
  
  Gameplay is similar but better than Oblivion. It is also no where near the 
 gameplay of previous Fallout games, for this is a first person shooter. There is the V. A. T. S mode 
 where you choose which body part you want to shoot or hit. It also is the main way to blow limbs 
 off, which sounds nasty now but as you play it, gets more fun. No lock ons but is not that hard 
 to hit people. The robots make the game alot more interesting just for the fact that some of them 
 kill you, serve you, or protect you. It's no different to a general first person shooter, control 
 based. You can also put live hand grenades into peoples pockets without them knowing and whatch 
 them blow.
  
  It's time for the arsenal. I will say there are many different weapons to choose from. Light weapons 
 include the Assault Rifle, .32 Pistol, Shotgun, and Sub-machine gun. Some heavy weapons include 
 the Fat Man, Rock-it Launcher, Flamer, and Minigun. Melee weapons include the Switchblade, Chinese 
 Officers Sword, Sludgehammer, and Brass Knuckles. All the weapons you choose from will result in 
 different outcomes. Yes, for all you stealthy or suprising people out there, there is Sniper Rifles 
 and Silencer Pistols!
  
  
  Lets talk about leveling up and perks.
  
  For killing and doing quests you gain experience points and eventually level up, which gives you 
 a chance to add attributes to your skills and a new perk. Your skills include Barter, which the 
 higher your Barter skill the less money things will be for sale, Lockpick which title says it all, 
 and Melee which increases how much damage you do when you melee. You can increase those and many 
 others when you level up, however, you only have 15 points per level to use. So use them wisely. 
 Perks are special abilities you get to choose from when you level up. YOU MAY ONLY CHOOSE 1 PERK 
 PER LEVEL. More perks become available every time you gain a new level. One perk you get is The 
 Bloody Mess perk, where whenever your in V. A. T. S mode you get an extra bloogy, gorey mess for the 
 janitors to clean up.
  
  Overall it's a great game that you are literally following in your father's footsteps. You escape 
 the Vault, ask around a nearby town called Megaton for your father, and eventually pick up the 
 trail, which brings you right smack in the heart of whats left of Washington D. C. A warzone filled 
 with the most terifying creatures you can emagine. The ending is a happy and sad ending and asking 
 yourself "I think I always knew that no matter what, there is good in everyone." You don't even 
 realize the game ends until you say "I can't beleive it happened." I will say no more about the 
 ending except that I cried. I mean it, I cried.
  
  And when you find your father... is he alive?
  ... or is he dead?
  
  
  Find out! buy Fallout 
 3 today! You won't be dissapointed! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chaos12290
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 3, 2008 8:59 pm PT
Review:  When I first got the game at the midnight release, I literally played it for about 7 hours straight. 
 I fell in love with the beautiful graphics, the fairly seamless gameplay, and virtually everything 
 the game has to offer. I started out the game almost the same as I had Oblivion or Morrowind, by 
 completing the majority of the side quests before embarking on the main quest. Starting the game 
 this way definitely gave me a better feel for the overall atmosphere of the game than if I had 
 just trudged through the main quest right off. I have to admit that I thought that the game was 
 perfect in every way. The combat was intense and satisfying, the quests were detailed and thought 
 provoking, but when everything finally culminated with the ending... I was just sitting there... 
 staring at the credits rolling by, wondering if I was supposed to do something to prolong the fantastic 
 game. I was ultimately disappointed in the ending of the game, probably because I was expecting 
 a "do what you want after the end" sort of ending. Overall though, the game really couldn't have 
 been put together more perfect (other than the ending) . After my initial frustration with the ending, 
 I realized that by replaying it, and doing things completely different, would make the ending unique 
 each time I play through. The game is, IMO, worth all the hype and the wait. Even with the ending 
 slightly askew, the rest of the game more than makes up for it. Bethesda has always been one of 
 my favorite developers, and they came through for me again. This game is so close to perfect, and 
 I can definitely see some new doors opened in the FPS-RPG realm. 9.7 out of 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: soul_alchemist0
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 3, 2008 8:49 pm PT
Review:  This game is definitely one of the best games of the year. You get Oblivion and Bioshock and mash 
 them together and you have Fallout 3. The VATS system will never get old even after seeing that 
 bloody scene where the head flies 30 feet and the limbs fly off the body from some unknown force 
 and the torso becomes a cloud of blood over 600 times. I only got about half of the achievements 
 but the majority of them seem to be for quests, which makes me think there are about 40-45 quests 
 in the game. Enough to keep you busy for a while. The level cap is 20, but it shows the next level 
 bar, which hints at future DLC. The Pip-boy has to be one of the best features of the game. Everything 
 you could possibly need is right there on your wrist. My only qualms with this masterpiece is the 
 environments are very bland and quite annoying to maneuver around due to huge piles of rocks blocking 
 any obvious path to your next destination. For the first few hours the music is great, but you 
 start to notice that 'the all powerful three dog, bow wow wow' is saying the same thing every 15-30 
 minutes and there are about 7 songs that replay over and over again. All in all this is a great 
 game for this generation and won't be forgotten anytime soon. Definite GOTY competitor. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JoReph
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 3, 2008 6:45 pm PT
Review:  Well, there's just not a lot to say about a game this good. All I can really say is buy it and 
 enjoy it for yourself. If you liked Oblivion or thought Oblivion was a great game, then you will 
 LOVE FallOut 3.
  
  Gameplay- Fun as hell, spend hours on adventuring looking for caps (money) , ammo, junk to sell, 
 armor, and weapons. Choosing what you want to say to people when you talk to them, being mean or 
 nice. Also being able to custimize your character like male or female and also races. You can play 
 it as a First Person Shooter or a Over the Shoulder shooter. (Personally I prefer the Over the 
 Shoulder most the time, but anyway.) This game just gives you A LOT of freedom, that is what makes 
 it so awesome.
  
  Sounds- Realistic.
  
  Graphics- are good, could have been a little better maybe, but over all, they are still good.
 
  
  Without a doubt, if you love RPG's and long games that can keep you busy forever exploring a lot 
 of places, GET FALLOUT 3!!! 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Master_Kratos1
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 3, 2008 6:22 pm PT
Review:  IN AD 2101 WAR WAS BEGINNING 
  WHAT HAPPEN? 
  SOMEONE SET UP US THE BOMB 
  WE GET SIGNAL 
  MAIN SCREEN TURN ON
  IT'S YOU
  HOW ARE YOU GENTLEMEN
  ALL YOUR BASE ARE 
 BELONG TO US
  YOU ARE ON THE WAY TO DESTRUCTION
  WHAT YOU SAY
  YOU HAVE NO CHANCE TO SURVIVE
  MAKE YOUR TIME
  HA HA HA HA
  TAKE OFF EVERY ZIG
  YOU KNOW 
 WHAT YOU DOING
  MOVE ZIG
  FOR GREAT JUSTICE
  
  WE GET SIGNAL 
  MAIN SCREEN TURN ON
  IT'S YOU
  HOW ARE YOU GENTLEMEN
  ALL YOUR BASE ARE BELONG TO US
  YOU ARE ON THE WAY TO DESTRUCTION
 
  WHAT YOU SAY
  YOU HAVE NO CHANCE TO SURVIVE
  MAKE YOUR TIME
  HA HA HA HA
  TAKE OFF EVERY ZIG
  YOU KNOW WHAT YOU DOING
  MOVE ZIG
  FOR GREAT JUSTICE
  
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: configme
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 3, 2008 5:34 pm PT
Review:  Seriously now, someone capture pure win and awesome and harvested the power into a disc form. This 
 game is what every game should be (not really, but pretty damn close) . I think we can reform Hillary 
 Clinton and Jack Thompson with this higher power. I've beaten the game twice and this third time 
 I'm trying to do all the missions, which is gonna take a long while considering how many places 
 there are and how big it is (Like being in Ron Jeremy's pants) . At first I told myself that V. A. T. S. 
 is something I would never use, but it is amazingly helpful without taking the difficulty away (if 
 you aren't on easy or below) . I hope they make a trillion more sequels to keep rocking my socks. 
 Bethesda should get some Life Time Achievement Awards, Medals of Honor, Nobel Peace Prizes, Oscars 
 and (most importantly) like 50 dollar gift certificates to Best Buy, because they did that f'ing 
 good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sharpshock
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 3, 2008 5:31 pm PT
Review:  Fallout 3 is a new type of rpg. In stead of using swords and maces you'll be using all sorts of 
 unique wepons form a board with nailz through it threw a mini nuke that will blow the hell out 
 of many enimies. Which is what makes fallout 3 so good. But The guide that takes you around the 
 huge world isn't so great... It's VERY confusing at times. So bad that it will make you want to 
 turn off the game and just give up. Which i've done many times. But I come back to it and most 
 of the time i figure it out. But not all of the time Unfortunately which is it's only downside 
 of the game but it's so bad that is why i lowerd the score by 1.5. Ofcorse if you have looked into 
 fallout3 at all what so ever you have herd of the targetting system. You choose a loction on the 
 party press rt as many times you want to hit that body part then fire. It goes to short scene where 
 most of the time the body part targeted will fly clean off of the body. The missions you will receive 
 are unlike any other in any game you've played. They will take very long so if your into into deep 
 quest that will take over 12 hours you are in luck. They will suck you in and won't let you go 
 untill you have completed it. I would recomend renting it before buying it. my review of this game 
 is based off of me renting it but i've put so many hours into the game I have as good as an idea 
 of the game as anyone seeing how i got to level 20. Overall it's a different rpg with a horiable 
 guiding system but every thing else from graphics to quests to wepons it's a great game. But the 
 guide may make you want to turn this game down... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dduarte22
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 3, 2008 4:14 pm PT
Review:  I think this is the best rpg game to come out since Oblivion. It's entertaining, fun, and addictive. 
 I'm glad I choose to buy this game. The fact that this is the same studio that made Oblivion alone 
 makes this game amazing. It stuck to the same mechanics, created a beautiful environment, the gameplay 
 is just amazing, and easy to get use to. The control scheme is also very easy to use and well laid 
 out. One of my favorite things in the game is that you have the choice to use V. A. T. S. or to just 
 shoot first person style. The fact that you can also create items from things you find in the world 
 is also a very nice addition to the game. I made the choice to buy this over Fable 2 and was glad 
 to make that decision because i think the decision making in this makes you think more than it 
 does in Fable. I rate this game a 10/10 and hope that if anyone has the opportunity to buy this 
 amazing, FANTASTIC, game to go out and buy it now. If you are a fan of RPGs you will definitely 
 fall in love with Fallout 3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Janpieterzun
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 3, 2008 2:34 pm PT
Review:  Fantastic game, Fantastic music. The atmosphere is top-notch. At first it felt very much like Oblivion 
 with a modern twist (even that would be cool) but the atmosphere just sucks you the more you play 
 it, i just love exploring, and scavenging weapons. It feels like fallout and that was what worried 
 me about this title. That it wouldn't feel like Fallout. The VATS system does a very good job of 
 turning this FPS into something more strategic, i can't wait to see how they improve on it. In 
 fact VATS is damn right addicting, i wish all FPS's used it. Story is good, the side quest are 
 downright awesome. They have more detail than most side-quest in other rpg's. 
  
  I want more! Bethesda did a fantastic job of turning the fallout universe 3D, and that's what it 
 did. This game gives a better sense of atmosphere than the earlier fallout games. The devastation 
 is downright beautiful. I have some issues with the game of course, some clipping, which is rare. 
 Also no sense of gravity. I like the stealth system, it needs more polish. I know its an rpg and 
 not splinter cell but just notes for the sequel. Also a better sense of consequences, for example, 
 i executed three-dog "bullet right-tween-the-eyes" yet i still heard him give news reports on the 
 radio. Eh its minor stuff (oh yes you can kill ANYONE) which is awesome. Showing restraint is the 
 most fun of this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FallenAngelXBL
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 3, 2008 2:13 pm PT
Review:  Hey GS
  
  Being a Fallout fan from my youth (7 yrs old... no joke) i was jumping in joy when i saw the brotherhood 
 of steel and Vault boy in the first few trailers of Fallout 3 and have been waiting patiently for 
 it arrive. Its arrived with Fable 2 and ill be reviewing them both in the next few minutes... so 
 lets see what i thought of Fallout 3.
  
  GRAPHICS
  Graphically Fallout 3 is pretty amazing, its has a huge detailed open ended wasteland to explore 
 and purge of highly detailed Raiders, Super Mutants, Enclave Soldiers, Ghouls and other assorted 
 beast's. Special effects are great, from the Nuclear Bomb going off to the VATS camera zooming 
 in on a bullet and following it into a raiders head the game constantly impresses with its visual 
 standards. Normally you would expect slowdowns, texture and object pop ins but these are rarely, 
 if ever seen. In fact i can report that i have never had a slowdown nor have i seen a low res surface 
 or texture. I have seen minor object pop ins, but this is acceptable in this sort of game due to 
 the scale of it. I was also equally impressed with the Loading times being only 5 seconds long 
 at maximum. Finally if Gore is your thing, then Fallout 3 has a gore overload from limbs and heads 
 getting shot off or exploding altogether to bodies just blowing into bits of bone and organs. This 
 adds to the game in a way rarely seen by gore. You can turn it off i do believe but if you do the 
 VATS wont have the same WOW factor... nor will combat in general. On a side not VATS looks AWESOME. 
 :P
  
  SOUND
  Fallout 3 has some great 1920 - 1930 tracks on the radio stations and will have you singing and 
 maybe even dancing along to them when all is said and done. Although the game is set in 2077 (i 
 think, but not sure) have such retro music playing adds to the great atmosphere to the game. With 
 everything being centered around the whole Apocalypse thing having stuff from 200+ years before 
 shows just how much was lost in the war in terms of not just music, but everything. With such great 
 radio music it is hard for Bethesda to match in terms of actual in game music. Amazingly they have 
 managed to have a great track that is especially good when combat starts. To top all this off you 
 have the Voice acting. The fist voice you hear is Liam Neeson or Quigon Jinn from Star Wars and 
 his voice acting is superb. Not only does his voice sound great he adds so much depth to the character 
 it makes his character genuinely likable. But you would expect it to go downhill from there, but 
 it doesnt. Every character has a unique voice expect the random NPC's who you dont engage in conversation... they 
 have about 5 actors. Overall the sound quality is great, great actors, great music what more could 
 you ask for? 
  
  GAMEPLAY
  You start life kicking and screaming as you are taken from your mothers... yeah... you know, and 
 your given a very clever character creation system that continues until your 19. So your born then 
 a few mins later its 1 year later and you play a baby learning to walk and you read a babies book 
 which expands your characters creation a little more. After this you skip 9 years to your 10th 
 Birthday where you are give your Pip-boy 3000 which contains EVERYTHING from quests to stats to 
 Items. Ontop of this you get some combat experience. Once your done here you skip another 6 years 
 and sit your GOAT Exam (with the option to try some hand to hand combat if you do some intervening 
 before you arrive) . The GOAT is a hilarious and genius method to give you your primary skills (of 
 which there are 3, the rest are minors) . These are changeable after the exam if you wish. Finally 
 you are 19 and your whole world crumbles and you leave the vault and begin your adventure. This 
 process takes about an hour and is the best tutorial i have ever seen. Genius. So, now you no a 
 spoiler free story opening lets get to the actual gameplay. 
  
  Combat: Though no COD4 or Halo 3 in terms of speed and realism as the entire thing is influenced 
 on stats the combat is great. You can walk around blowing things up with anything from Missile 
 Launchers, to Rock-IT launchers (It is totally different... seriously) to Miniature Nuke Launchers. 
 Or be all sneaky with silenced pistols and sniper rifles or go all guns blazing with Gatling Lasers, 
 Mini guns, assault rifles etc. Or if you want to get all up in there face pull out a Lead pipe, 
 Sledge hammers, spiked knuckle dusters (if your rich, a Power Glove) or a sword. Of course you get 
 grenades and mines to spice it up some more. Ever weapon can be used in the VATS aiming thing which 
 pretty much means you target certain areas of a few foes and watch your character unleash death 
 on them in glorious slow motion and cinematic camera that never gets old somehow. 
  
  Communication: Conversing with the various characters gives you Main quests, Side Quests and little 
 optional favors that aren't really quests but if you do them may lead to quests. All conversations 
 can lead to Good or Bad Kama and information you gather from people depends on your speech attribute 
 mainly, but with high medicinal knowledge or Intelligence and the help of some gender related skills 
 make each conversation unique... even on multiple play throughs. Nearly all, if not all quests can 
 be completed in multiple ways, from blatantly lying to avoid doing it to making serious choices 
 between good and evil. This makes replaying the game a joy and totally different from your first 
 playthrough. 
  
  Exploration: Exploring the vast expanse of the waste land is great, I spent many hours just thinking 
 "Whats behind that rock over there?" and just going out and finding new camps, villages, enemies, 
 vaults and monuments as well as other things. 
  
  Overall:
  With great combat, great communication system and optional quests and exploration Fallout 3 is 
 a game that will give you as much fun as you want it to. If you just go through the 20 hour story 
 without experiencing the game fully you will enjoy it, but you wont Love it. If however you do 
 all the fun, challenging and long side missions and just explore for the hell of it then you can 
 get 100 hours easily... On each play through. Also just to add.. the more you do in the game, the 
 more fleshed out the ending gets. So do everything and you will get a longer, more informative 
 ending. 
  
  Closing comments:
  So Fallout 3 continues the great legacy of the Fallout Series with great success and with the possible 
 addition of expansions or DLC in the near future, this is one journey you don't want to miss. All 
 i have to do now is wait for Fallout 4 :P
  
  SCORE: Few Flaws, great fun, great replay value 9.0/10 (i want to give it 10... but i cant... it 
 goes against my reviewers oath to myself.) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pycho22solid
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 3, 2008 2:07 pm PT
Review:  Fallout 3 is truly a game unlike any other. Look at all other games this holiday season- and none 
 are even remotely similiar to Fallout. Why? Becuase nothing can top this games perfect blend of 
 gameplay, story, presentation, and BLOOD.
  
  Falllout3 takes place in the far future where, after a nuclear fallout people of the United States 
 are forced to live in designated Vaults. You literally begin the game from your birth and so on. 
 The first 1/2 hour of the game serves a tutorial. Then, one day your father escapes the vault-and 
 you soon follow...
  
  Fallout 3's gameplay is the real reason you should pick up this game. Though clunky at first, the 
 combat and weapons in Fallout are incredibly satisfying. VATS brings a whole new strategy to gameplay, 
 as it allows you to stop and aim at a specific part of the target (limbs or the head in the case 
 of who/ what you'll fight) . Leveling up is very deep, and best of all you can customize your charcters 
 stats any way you like- including certain PERKS, which give special bonuses to combat, how much 
 you can heal yourself, and of course the amount of gore your enemies emit (thanks to the now famous 
 bloody mess) .
  
  Visually, Fallout 3 will probably not wow you as far as technical design, but artistic wise- it's 
 nothing short of amazing. Monsters are awesome, the destroyed cities will amaze you and the amount 
 of detail into the world is incredible.
  
  Overall, Fallout3 is a must buy. It serves not only as a fun, rewarding, experience- but a challenging 
 and interesting one as well.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: tbailey184
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 3, 2008 10:35 am PT
Review:  Fallout 3 is another feather in the cap of Bethesda. I wasn't sure how I'd feel about a game set 
 in a post-apocolyptic setting, or how the leveling and stat system would feel. After having played 
 for awhile now though, I'm quite completely enthralled in the game.
  
  Not everything is perfect, as the gun battles are alittle off, especially early on. For example, 
 a raider I could barely see was able to hit me repeatedly with a shotgun, while I was only 15% 
 to hit him with a hunting rifle. Just didn't seem right. Also the tracking doesn't take into account 
 cover and such, as I had several 95% rounds miss because they struck the corner of the wall I was 
 crouched next to. While these two examples haven't really improved, the general combat skill does 
 with leveling, and some general tactics.
  
  The world, while alittle bland, does offer enough variation to keep you from becoming too bored 
 with the landscape. Interactions have been pretty impressive, and I am impressed with how open 
 some of the quests have been. I was less than stellar on a couple simply because I didn't figure 
 the game would allow me to proceed as I wished, only to find I was wrong.
  
  If you're a first person rpg fan, this is a must own title. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thatshott
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 3, 2008 7:33 am PT
Review:  takes a little while to get used to the pip boy but after that its truly fun game. exploring the 
 huge wasteland is fun. there are down times where not much going on but gives you a chance to explore 
 without getting shot at every 5 seconds. game play is so cool just the way characters react with 
 you and even animals to. nothing has been left out even 1 part where i had fast traveled to a location 
 immediately i was confronted by raiders telling me a bounty had been put on my head and they where 
 there to collect it. graphics are truly amazing the world looks just awesome. very few hitches and 
 long load times like oblivion, one thing that really stands out is how much of the world is on the 
 screen at once. for any one who played oblivion as you where walking you would see new trees, mountains, etc 
 start showing up as you where walking which took away a little from the land you where in. that 
 happens much less in this game. this is a must have game especially for oblivion fans 
::::::

::::::
UserName: godman89
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 3, 2008 6:51 am PT
Review:  This is an RPG that brings so much fun and great graphics into the game. The idea that you can 
 see someone's head fly off slowly or completely explode is deeply satisfying. I couldn't believe 
 the depth that the company went through for this game. There is an awesome selection of dialog 
 for people who want to be helpful or just plain evil. Leveling up can take quite a bit of time 
 but it is so rewarding in the end. The storyline (so far) is great and I found so many in depth 
 side quests that I don't know what I want to do first. For anyone that enjoy's RPG's and hasn't 
 at least rented this game out, you are missing out on a "I think" a revolutionary game. Now for 
 FPS lovers, including me, this game can prove to be a challenge when not using the VAT (slo mo) 
 system as the game has pretty much no auto aim but none the less, pulling off a headshot with a 
 sniper rifle is still something you need to feel for yourself. Overall, I gave this game a perfect 
 10 because it has shown me how in depth games really can be with a little more work thrown into 
 them. Everyone needs to try this game at least once. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: corian_331
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 3, 2008 6:50 am PT
Review:  I have played many RPG games in my time and there are few companies that can keep my attention 
 like Bethesda. Bioware, Valve and Square Enix are THE group that I have no problem dishing out 
 60 or more dollars to experience. From every aspect and every angle this is a near perfect game. 
 The only things that I see as an issue are hardly issues at all: 1 out of 20 or so uses causes 
 VATS to get stuck behind the player and the character models are stiff. The same game engine that 
 was used in Oblivion, (or one almost exactly like it) which I think is good choice. The graphics 
 are detailed and crisp and as usual the music is great. This time around you even have the option 
 of listening to old 50's tunes while you move thru the wastes. Gameplay is Brutal and bloody and 
 your PIP-Boy is easy and fun to use. There is a good deal of WOW effect in Fallout that any fan 
 of Bethesda or Action should check out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tkemory
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 3, 2008 4:39 am PT
Review:  Wasteland is the game that really got me into PC gaming all of those years ago, then Fallout 1 
 and 2. Lets just say I had fairly high hopes for this game.
  
  I can totally see how people make the comment this is Oblivion with guns (and without magic) . The 
 art has an Oblivion feel to it, and the entire game mechanically is just like Oblivion. It has 
 the same confusing character building screen, same mechanic to zone, etc etc. That being said though 
 the more you play the game, the more you see how its different. The graphics are very good, the 
 models much better than Oblivion. 3rd person is where this game belongs out of the 2d isometric 
 view.
  
  VATS doesnt rule as much as I thought it would, and you have to get used to combining real time 
 combat with VATS. This was a pleasant surprise because I couldnt just use VATS to win every fight, 
 had to be more strategic.
  
  The Good:
  Great combination of real time versus VATs in combat, Great Graphics, Huge World, Great Apocalyptic 
 feel to the game, great environmental warfare (exploding cars, etc to turn battles in which I was 
 hopelessly outnumbered) , Great Quest functionality, Crafted Weapons are ingenous and fun.
  
  The Bad:
  Bugs and Crashing, PIP Boy feels awkward sometimes, VATS has some lag in certain 
 encounters, I am not crazy about character creation screen, especially colors.
  
  Overall a great game and well worth the money, I got approx 30 hours out of my first pass through 
 and can't wait to play it again with a different build. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: piggyvsnfc
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 3, 2008 3:45 am PT
Review:  This is the best game of all time. Before it was Jagged Alliance 2. Most of you won't know what 
 that is, but it was the last game I played this much. I even put 19 hours on F3 in one sitting. 
 
  Now if your are one of those die-hard Fallout fans that demand an isometric view you won't like 
 this. So stick to the first 2. If you absolutely love the more you use it the better you get aspect 
 of Elder Scrolls I must tell you this game is different. The leveling up is closer to the original 
 Fallouts than Elder Scrolls. Also if you just do the main quest you will find this game short. 
 It is meant to be explored vastly, not just rushed through. Putting these things aside this most 
 likely will be game of the year. There is so much to this game it will take 3 or 4 play throughs 
 to see and experience it all. 
  Some others, you will notice, don't like the mini-games such as lock picking. This is most likely 
 because they suck at it. Quick tip, if you find the terminals hard don't use them they aren't that 
 important any way. The lock picking can be frustrating but if you move the bobby pin and then barley 
 put torque on the screw driver to check your correctness you will find it easier. Others have also 
 found the combat "clunky" or hard to hit things without VATS. If you having this problem try not 
 using the left trigger zoom unless your aiming at something very far away. Also try turning the 
 sensitivity down a bit. I personally am able to hit anything within reason with out VATS, although 
 I do love VATS. 
  Now after putting all the supposed problems behind us, you can have no more gripes about this game. 
 That is unless your playing on a PS3 or an older PC (I don't know why you would do this as the 
 360 version is superior) . Or you expected this to be a first person shooter. So in summary as long 
 as you know what your getting yourself into this will be one of the best games you ever play. Especially 
 if the idea of Elder Scrolls in a nuclear wasteland sounds good to you. As long as your not overly 
 critical and just want to have fun losing yourself in a highly realized world this game is perfect. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xKGBxx
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 3, 2008 3:33 am PT
Review:  Fallout 3 is one of those games that comes once a year. You can be anyone you like but regardless 
 your born in vault 101, a place that seems perfect, but soon to find out it's not what everything 
 it portrays itself to be. You eventually grow up and one morning you wake up and your dad has left 
 the vault. That is when the game really starts, you have this open world to explore, for a world 
 that seems so boring with a bunch of crappy and dead, its very much entertaining and alive. One 
 thing i really enjoyed was how i always had to scrape together ammo and food, it wasn't easy to 
 get i felt like i was living day by day trying to survive and thats just one of many things i like 
 about fallout. Gameplay for me is very fun i really enjoyed using VATS but switching from 3rd to 
 1st person, but 3rd is mainly i think just to view your character. Aiming without VATS is a little 
 difficult and takes some getting use too, but aside from that gameplay feels good. i was very surprised 
 about the graphics, their amazing! there is a few rough textures but nothing horrible. now to the 
 problems i encounterd. As you all probely know there is quite a few glitches some experienced worse 
 then i did but for me it wasn't that bad. Too me the animations could have been better i'm not 
 saying there bad or that i can do better but it would be nice to see in the future. Well thats 
 my mini review i hope it helps people. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kuroganeki
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 2, 2008 11:12 pm PT
Review:  Oh jeez, where do I start? The game hasn't met my expectations, it's blown them away. Fallout 3 
 is about you trying to find your father whom escaped bomb shelter so called "Vault 101", to do 
 some research, and so you have to find him.
  
  Lets start with the good, the gameplay.
  
  -Gameplay It is as non-failing as a game can be. When you see this game you might think, "omg, 
 it's not like the four previous fallout games and will suck!" ummm, you are mistaken. It may be 
 different, VERY different, but it still keeps the fallout theme. the first 30 hours of the game 
 (Thats how much I've played so far) will zombify you in it's radiation rays. V. A. T. S is a nice 
 addition too, which is where you can stop time, then select a body part to fire and bam. Heh, I 
 still love seeing people being decapitated in the game.
  
  -Graphics Ehhhh, Good, but not mind blowing
  
  -Story Kinda cleche, but a good cleche
  
 
  
  
  
  
  The bad
  
  third person sucks, aiming glitches that somethimes can get you killed, texture bugs.
  
  
 
  
  
  
  Overall, I give it a 12/10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AngryAndy
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 2, 2008 11:04 pm PT
Review:  I'll keep this short but sweet. This game keeps delivering at every turn. You receive a quest and 
 you believe it to be straightforward only to find out something needs to be delivered, killed, 
 talked to, found or retrieved. Often times involving crazy combinations of the aforementioned scenarios 
 (i. e deliver this package to Bill and talk to him to find out where he hid my daughter then splatter 
 his brains) .
  
  The Wasteland is the real star of the game. So beautifully rendered (orgasmic for HDTV's) and expansive 
 you find yourself often walking to the towns instead of running just to take it all in. Never, 
 ever have I been so sucked into a game before this. I've been obsessed before (GTA, baseball games, 
 wrestling games, FPS multiplayer) but never have I been this drawn into a game. This really is 
 an experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShadowReaper313
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 2, 2008 10:32 pm PT
Review:  This is an awesome game that you can get really into. I loved Oblivion and this is even better. 
 At the beginning of the game when you are first figuring out what you are doing and you don't have 
 very good skills it can be frustrating, but once you figure everything out it is a blast. Once 
 you hit the higher levels you will be blowing apart super mutants and the like without much trouble. 
 The story to this game is very good and has many different choices depending on the kind of character 
 you want to have. The karma choices are an interesting thing if you want a certain type of character. 
 The good thing is that there are many chances to change it, no matter how high or low. There is 
 so much to do in this game that it would take hours to explain it all, so instead of wasting time 
 at the computer I say you should go buy it and start your way to wasteland glory, fear, or something 
 in between. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nas-tmayne2k6
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 2, 2008 7:25 pm PT
Review:  Incredible game right here... post apocolyptic wasteland filled with mercs.... renegade gangs.. nomads.. mutants 
 with hugs chain guns.. droids.. In this game wandering around the city of DC and the countryside 
 beside it.. You will encounter many truly gritty heart stopping situations.. theres no run and gun... no 
 half stepping allowed.
  
  Most everyone who is interested in the game knows the story by now.
  
  While not as geographically 
 large as oblivion... theres many buildings ... tunnels. caverns to explore .. with plenty of traps.. you 
 will come across booby trapped buildings with survivors not ready to give up anything you may want 
 from them. you will have sidequests where you might have to retrieve something for someone.. Enslave 
 people.. hit someone. save someones live.
  
  Enough.
  
  Trust the reviews... its a must purchase
  
  
  
  graphics are specatular.. sprawling detailed 
 landscapes are wonderful.. animations are stiff though
  
  controls are good they are made easier by your pitboy a palm pilot of sorts. sometimes trying to 
 evade enemies you will get stuck on things which can be annoying though.
  
  
  sound: solid score thats appropriate for the situations... gun sounds are very good.
  
  Vat 
 system IE matrix esque slow motion function really adds another element .
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: patrickiscool
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 2, 2008 6:08 pm PT
Review:  Fallout 3 contains a phenomenal!!! amount of really well thought out and engrossing sidequests. 
 Seriously, best sidequests I've played in any game, in my opinion. 
  
  However, I felt the main plot was flat out dumb and the ending abrupt and pointless. It's made 
 worse by how exceptional the rest of the game is. Who was put in charge of writing the main story? 
 Fire them. Fire them now. Most games you can tell when the end is getting near, like it's pretty 
 obvious, right? Not Fallout 3. I just wanted to get this boring mission out of the way when BAM! 
 game over. Never did I have any desire to accomplish the main plot, I really only ever did plot 
 related stuff when I had nothing else to do, then the game forced me to stop playing. This ending, 
 while not ruining it for me, could well ruin the whole experience for many people. 
  
  As well, the level cap is far, far too low. I reached the maximum level when about halfway through 
 the main story. It's really frustrating when you realize that you straight up cannot get any better. 
 This is it, your character is the best he can be (barring skill books and bobbleheads to give you 
 more skill) and you still have to put up with the rest of the story without so much as a new perk.
 
  
  Still, everything else in it is so completely and totally awesome that I'd feel terrible giving 
 it any less than a 9. I love this game, don't get me wrong, just the second play through, I'll 
 make sure not to accidentally do the final mission and have my game ended on me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: captainclick
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 3, 2008 3:58 pm PT
Review:  This open world RPG has really sucked me in. I actually like the Fallout / Elder Scrolls mix, a 
 clever combination of two great games. Very entertaining missions, cool retro soundtrack / effects, 
 and amazingly detailed world. 
  
  That said, I wish Bethesda had more time to work out the kinks as the game is just a little buggy. 
 I came across a broken mission (fix robots in Big Town) , floating two headed cows, and enemies 
 stuck in walls for example. And can someone tell me why radscorpions are the toughest foes in the 
 game?
  
  The worst thing about F3 by far is the irritating mini-games. If I liked word puzzles I wouldn't 
 be playing action packed RPGs! And the lock picking mini is so infuriatingly boring its more fun 
 to save the game and force the locks. If the lock breaks re-load and do over. 
  
  Why make the mini-games such a redundant and intricate part of the game? Keep the mini games as 
 a fun diversion, ie. silly bar games, not mandatory in progressing the plot! 
  
  Despite my petty nit picking F3 is a solid RPG worth the $60. Goodbye social life, I'm going to 
 go find me some bobble heads!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Recon807
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 28, 2009 6:01 am PT
Review:  Fallout 3 for the Xbox 360 reviewed by Matt.
  
  PRESENTATION:
  
  Audio: 9.5/10
  +Voice acting is possibly better than Oblivion.
  +Explosions and gunshots are amazing, especially 
 when followed by the sound of a full-body mutilation.
  
  Music: 8.5/10
  +Almost all of the songs are great.
  -Several lack distinction.
  
  Visual: 9.5/10
  +A post-apocalyptic 
 landscape has never looked better..
  
  GAMEPLAY:
  
  Gameplay: 9.5/10
  +The best parts of shooters and the best parts of RPG's combined perfectly.
  +Lord knows how 
 many hours you'll get out of this.
  +V. A. T. S. is tons of fun to use.
  +Quests are generally much longer than Oblivion's.
  -Longer quests means fewer quests, a lot 
 fewer.
  -The game actually ends when you finish the main quest, unlike Oblivion.
  
  Multiplayer: N/A
  
  Story: 9/10
  +The main quest is deeply engrossing and you won't stop 
 playing until you beat it.
  +Side missions are on average much more detailed and thought out than Oblivion's.
  
  OVERALL: 
 9.5/10
  
  NOTE: While this is very similar to Oblivion in many ways, it is not as good. It is still the best 
 game of the year and one of the very best I've ever played, but I don't think anything will ever 
 compare to Oblivion. It's just too perfect.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alucard_Prime
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 2, 2008 3:22 pm PT
Review:  I'm a hardcore RPG fan who grew up in the eighties and having played many many different ones before, 
 I have no difficulty saying that Fallout 3 is easily one of the most enjoyable video game experiences 
 I have ever had.
  
  Story: An original and very compelling storyline. Be warned, this is a dark and mature game, and 
 not for the squeamish. 
  
  Music: Fantastic. Sometimes atmospheric and other times orchestric, but always awesome. Great fit 
 and balance overall. 10/10
  
  Graphics: A big step up from Oblivion. Great art design and superb technical prowess such as draw 
 distance. Very few pop ups, if any. Definitely one of the game's stronger qualities.
  
  Gameplay: One of the deepest and most versatile RPGs. Great responsive controls, and VATS is so 
 much fun. People who say the FPS controls are sluggish just don't get the point: they are so on 
 purpose... your responsiveness and accuracy is based heavily on your stats. 
  
  Replay value: HAHAHAHA, just thinking of this makes me laugh. Let's just put it this way: no single 
 player game holds a candle to Fallout 3 in terms of replay value....40 hours in and I feel that 
 I've barely scratched the surface. And I've had a hell of a good time so far. Most games would 
 have already ended by now... but I'm only level 7 lol (and I feel like I'm rushing lol)
  
  It's hard to find a big flaw in Fallout 3, but if I were to try very hard, I would say the game's 
 scope. This game may feel, as it did to me at first, overwhelming. It is HUGE. A la Oblivion. It's 
 easy to get lost, and if you are the type of person (*cough* new generation of gamers *cough*) who 
 likes their power ups and pick ups to glow so you can spot them very easily, you may be in for 
 a disappointment. This is as real and authentic as it gets, and it is not dumbed-down for the mass 
 audience. 
  
  A must-have for any RPG fan.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: TOMBOM889
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 2, 2008 1:57 pm PT
Review:  Trust me when I say this, Fallout 3 is probably the best game you will have played to date. There 
 are some small technical issues, like when NPCs get locked in each others path, but other than 
 that it iss pretty good lookin. The quests are not as frequent as oblivion but they have so many 
 options as far as beating the quest. The combat is very fun and gratifying. Its not a conventional 
 FPS but it has some pretty good moments. The NPCs are smart. They react to what is around them 
 etc. Variety of weapons and armor is terrific, and they sound and look good. The radio built into 
 your pipboy is actually rather entertaining. With that the game is a 10 outta 10. There are some 
 teeny weeny issues but if you look at everything like that there would be no perfect games. All 
 im sayin is go and buy the game, you will enjoy yourself. :p 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BenBenBen93
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 2, 2008 9:38 am PT
Review:  The Good: 
  Believable World 
  
  Good Voice acting 
  
  The graphics are good (but not to all your crisis of COD standards)
  
  Good history of area 
 diffrent from east coast 
  V. A. T. S!!!!!!!!!!!
  
  Big selection of guns (Gotta love Rock-It launcher and of course Fat Man)
  
  Surprisingly scary 
 
  Karma is very good
  
  Doing evil acts does get to your heart and brain 
  Good story overall
  
  Behemoths are scary when you don't have fat man 
  Levelling System 
 much better than Oblivion 
  
  Lovely gore (shoots arms and blow up heads {bloody mess perk} )
  
  Replay value
  
  Fallout 
 Humour but not as much but still their
  Stay pretty true to old fallouts (thanks Bethesda)
  
  The Bad: 
  Lots of glitches none 
 are really major just graphical glitches of stupid animations
  
  Loves to crash especially on older Xbox's 
  
  Not totally bad but long tutorial and is easily 
 overcome by making a save game
  
  I personally think it isn't dense enough not enough place to go and see
  
  But they can be 
 spectacular places like monuments
  Radio is repetitive (good atmospheric music though)
  
  YOU CANNOT KILL CHILDREN!!! It's a shame
  
 
  Defo not rent game and depends on who you are as a gamer if you're used to playing COD4 simple 
 games with only one option you may get yourself lost or you may hate the combat but I'm an RPGer 
 I know how I like to place my points I know that It can be glitchey and buggy so I make save games 
 and search the whole spot this may make it sound awful but trust me this is going to keep me going 
 for many more hours MANY MANY more
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: huntercal
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 2, 2008 4:57 am PT
Review:  Well some would say that it is pretty premature of me to be writing a review for this game so early 
 into my own experience of it. Afterall I am not even halfway through but I just had to spread the 
 love on just hwo brilliant this game is.
  
  At first I was thinking about what most people expected this game to be, Oblivion with guns! and 
 as I was working my way through Megaton I was beginning to think they were spot on. Not that this 
 was a bad thing but early on the game looked to be going in that direction. But as I peered my 
 head out of the Scrap Heap city I began to realise that it was muh more than that, it was a great 
 experience in a what is a terrific setting of post-apocalyptic Washington D. C.
  
  The game begins with you in Vault 101 where you are told that you were born there, and you will 
 die there as no one goes in or out. About 30mins in you after you decide your look, stats and such, 
 you realise that Vault 101 is really easy to break out of. From there you are on a journey to find 
 your father (voice by the awesome Liam Neeson) who as high tailed it out of the old vault. You 
 soon discover that most of what you know about the world is a huge lie.
  
  When you first get out of the vault you will be swept away by the visual granduer of the landscape 
 and with good reason, this game is a gritty style of beautiful that you can't help but admire. 
 This grit translates into every aspect of the game from the demeanour of the NPCs to the combat 
 system in the game.
  
  With every enemy you kill you can blow up there limbs or literally blow their brains out. At first 
 this system is clunky and there always seems to e not enough ammo leaving you with a baton or a 
 baseball bat for a few hours. But as you go through the game a bit further the combat system adds 
 to the excitement in the game as well as the strategy that goes into every battle you have with 
 a mass group of raiders or super mutants.
  
  Like I said earlier I am no where near passing this game but I doubt many people at this stage 
 would be if they soak everything in this game up as it comes. But it doesn't much to realise that 
 this game is simply incredible, it seems Bethesda keep making their open world games smaller and 
 smaller but at the same time making them better. Now this still has moments of vintage Fallout 
 but this really reinvents the franchise which is mostly good with the exception of the seemingly 
 complete lack of humour. This game is incredible but a little levity may have helped to make it 
 more accessable to a larger audience.
  
  I'll tell you what I tell everyone about Fable 2 and Mass Effect, buy it, love it and thank me 
 later! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sagri7
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 2, 2008 4:18 am PT
Review:  The good:
  HUGE
  Story is very very "grab you and not let go"ish
  Theres plenty of side quests to find and do
  There arent many quests compared to oblivion, but 
 the size of the quests is amazing.
  Very open-ended character development
  It made me laugh
  
  The Bad:
  Combat system could be improved on
  I get two major graphic 
 glitches (dont know if its just me)
  It crashed 4 times during play
  
  The Ugly:
  No continue feature when you finish the game (this really dissapointed me)
  --------------------------------------
 
  
  So yeah, its finally here after 4 years in development, and being taken on by one of the best RPG 
 developers in the business.
  The main thing that will grab any player of this game (even the fallout fanboys) is the sheer scale 
 of it. Im not sure how big the world is, but its big. And its not like theres nothing there, everywhere 
 you go there will be a ruined town, maybe a makeshift town made by wastelanders, a town run by 
 raiders or super mutants. Or another vault free to explore.
  From the get-go your gunna get grabbed by the story and it wont let you go. Right until the very 
 bitter end. With a very large amount of endings, i heared about 20.
  The side quests available are not that easy to find, but when you find them it will take you a 
 while to complete them. You dont have to do them but its advisable or you will finish it too quick, 
 like i did, just going straight through the story.
  Each time you level up, which is relatively easy. You gain 2 options to level. One is a basic kind 
 of stats. But its not like "strength" or whatever, its about 19 options ranging from science, to 
 big guns. Improving one lets you become more skilled. Science allows you to hack harder terminals, 
 big guns increases your damage with.. well big guns!
  Throughout the game, various bits actually made me laugh. Despite the setting and time of the game, 
 such as...! SPOILER! a underground city of children (all children seem to have a bad mouth but meh) , 
 or fawkes, named after Guy Fawkes, a good super mutant fighting for good.! END SPOILER!
  
  A dissapointing part of the game, is the combat system. It was the same with oblivion really. No 
 skill is really needed, just repeatedly hit the trigger. Even easier if you just use the V. A. T. S 
 system. Around near the end of the game, or just around a specific area, i got a very annoying 
 graphic glitch. Water just stuck to the crosshair until i looked a different way. This was near 
 the jefferson memorial. And another near Arefu bridge.
  Again something else annoying, my game crashed. I dont know if it was my 360 or game, but it hasnt 
 done it on other games.
  
  Ok, now to the very very annoying part of the game, the part which i loved about oblivion. When 
 you finish the game, you cannot continue playing the saved game. I cant describe how much this 
 annoyed me. I was ready to continue questing, finding everything, doing side quests all that stuff, 
 but no matter which ending i got, i just couldnt (this made me start again not so bad but still) . 
 So yeah, this is very annoying. Maybe possible in a patch?
  
  Beside those few bad points, it still deserves a 10. Maybe an 11. It is a great game, and should 
 very well the game of the year title.
  
  (Long review AGAIN, but what the hell.) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bahne
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 2, 2008 1:51 am PT
Review:  It is true what they say about the Oblivion feel, but at the same time it improves upon all of 
 Oblivions short comings. Its large expansive gameplay is never overwelming and keeps you wanting 
 to go back for more. The weakest part of this game is the plot however its not because its poor. 
 The emersive world around you does such a great job of distracing you from the task at hand, and 
 the side missions are so much better than any other RPG you simply dont care enough when a certain 
 (spoiler!) Jedi voiced character died... in fact you can see it comming a mile away. 
  Once again this games triumph is its world and lore. You feel generally frightened to travel the 
 expanse of the wasteland at night and welcome company if not just to have someone literally watching 
 your back from things that bump in the night.
  I cant give this game a 10 simply because i dont think any game deservs the rank however i can 
 say without doubt this is one of the finest games i have ever played. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kilimanjaro187
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 2, 2008 12:32 am PT
Review:  This is the game of the year there's no denying it here. i played this game for almost a whole day 
 and night cycle seriously. i think this game is the crack of all games meaning like how people get 
 addicted to crack i got addicted to this game because i went into it with an open mind and was 
 blown away like them dudes heads i be popping off with my V. A. T. S which i will talk about later. This 
 is not a fps it is really whatever type of game you want it to be really 1st and 3rd person view 
 is present which is cool when you think of it. You can also choose how close or far you want the 
 3rd per camera which i like a alot. (because i think i'm mad max lol) This makes you feel like mad 
 max .Then theres V. A. T. S which stands for vault tec assisted tageting system which is like one 
 the greatest game inventions next to the lancer in gears of course. this vats lets you blow a mutant 
 head off with some style period and it never ever ever gets old. Have fun in the wasteland 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VoidCrusader
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 1, 2008 10:57 pm PT
Review:  OK, I have purchased Fallout 3. Quick review with 15 hours of play. The opening character creation 
 is probably the best I have ever played you actually go through points in your life as an adult 
 and the choices you make chooses your stats. You can change them if you want, at the end of the 
 intro it pulls an Oblivion moment that lets you redo everything if you want.
  
  The graphics are great and the voice acting so far has been perfect. Every character I can identify 
 with and no one makes me want to stab a fork in their eye. Well one person but I think he was meant 
 to come off like that, and I killed him anyways so all good. Currently I am playing a kinda moral 
 gray character. I seduce and steal but I won't do anything horrendous.
  
  I think the only complaint I have about the game is also it's strength. It is just such a big world 
 that I often find myself paralyzed on what to do. I got a map of the world that was divided into 
 9 sectors, I have only been to the bottom half of two in these 15 hours. Not to mention I haven't 
 explored the underground and have no idea how far that goes or if it just transit stations.
  
  A piece of advice is try not to be an everyman. I went into the game going, well you can raise 
 each stat one point, and each skill 60 points (one bobble head for 10, and 25 books with a comprehension 
 perk = 60) and so I made a guy who was balanced everywhere, nothing going higher than 40 skill, 
 etc. This is starting to cost me as the world is so huge that quite frankly I am screwing myself 
 in both interaction and exploring by not being a master in my chosen areas.
  
  Also combat is fun and the VATS kills have yet to get old for me.
  
  While I don't think it 
 is as good as the original Fallout series I can easily admit that this can be due to the rosy hue 
 that accompanies all past memories one has of their child hood. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XRufio84X
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 1, 2008 10:23 pm PT
Review:  First off, I'm not done with the game. Not even close. I'm having too much fun exploring everything 
 it has to offer. I've played Fallout 1 several times for the same reason as well as Fallout 2. 
 The Fallout franchise is so much deeper and more intricate than most of you realize. There are 
 too many perfectionists out there is what I think. A lot of people are way too hard on games in 
 general. I can't even begin to point out how many times I've seen the words "Too short of a story" 
 or "Wow, I beat the game in just 3 hours?!". Why does anyone spend over fifty dollars to beat a 
 game as fast as possible? I feel bad for those who really did just whizz through without enjoying 
 it. Those who play videos games just to beat them and then move on to the NEXT BIG THING. Too many 
 people are interested and worried about what others think and I say make your own judgement call. 
 Please, stop comparing Fallout 3 to other games (including Oblivion) and take the time to see the 
 true beauty behind it. Why not read up on or even play the 2 original games for some insight? Don't 
 get me wrong. I understand that they were made in the 90's, but you've got to understand the roots 
 before you can understand and fully criticize this game properly. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Calmed_Fury
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 1, 2008 9:12 pm PT
Review:  So I just finished throught the main questline of Fallout 3. I must say that it was worth playing. 
 I feel that I short changed myself for not exploring the entirety of the Fallout 3 because I wanted 
 to finish at least one playthrough before Gears of War 2 came out. I took on very few of the side 
 quests so I did not delve to much into the game, but I did see that there were many options for 
 side quests. 
  After having played through Oblivion (as well as a couple of the expansion packs) I knew what to 
 expect rpg-wise from Fallout 3. There were many skills from which to upgrade every time you level 
 up. Bethesda decided to put a little extra icing on an already great leveling system by adding 
 these perks. Perks allow the user to gain an extra little bonus at the point of leveling up. They 
 range from giving you a higher percentage of experience gained per kill to learing how to become 
 a cannible in order to regain health by eating those enemies you have defeated. 
  Now let us talk about the open world aspect of the game. Bethesda really tries to put you into 
 this character by making the enviornment so true to the Fallout world. There are not many towns 
 to go do trade. So you have to do a lot more scavaging for amunition. This is great because it 
 really makes one think: "Should I waste my ammo on that enemy in the distance? Or should I walk 
 around this encampment in order to save my ammo for a more deserving enemy." Also the creepiness 
 factor is huge in this game (At least to me it is. I am rather jumpy) . I could feel my heart pounding 
 against my chest because I just didnt know if I open this door will there be a Super-Mutant targeting 
 my head with an assault rifle? Or just another dark and winding hallway?
  Gameplay is of course an important aspect as Fallout 3 is a game. I really like the combat system 
 for this game. It allows the user to play in first or third person (Its much easier to target enemies 
 in 1st) and also have this new VATS system (Makes it even easier to target enemies) which can make 
 the game feel very turn-based. I would constantly be switching between these 3 ways of targeting 
 to get the best tactical advantage at all times. When enemies were far off I usually used 3rd person 
 to target them. When up close, 1st preson made it feel just as good as any other First Person Shooter 
 on the market. When overwhelmed by enemies, VATS allowed me to slow things down and pinpoint my 
 targets. All 3 of these combined to allow the user to use whatever is easiest for them.
  The main storyline was fantastic but because I do not wish to spoil anything for anyone. I will 
 leave that to those on the message boards who have undoubtedly already ruined the story for some 
 of you. I will just say that after you finish the game it gives you a "Marvel Ultimate Alliance"esque 
 rundown of choices you made in the game and how the world of Fallout was/is/will be affected. 
 
  Now I will tell you why I have taken off .5 point from Fallout 3's overall score. I have taken 
 off .5 points because I never saw hide or tail of this dog that you were supposed to have had during 
 the game. But this of course could be my own fault for never having strayed far from the path of 
 the main questline. The other .5 I have taken off because of my own personal dislike for scary, 
 creepy of horror games. I am sorry but I cannot take it. I get so freaked out by the ambient noises 
 or the ruslting of an enemy or even that dead silence found in some of the subway tunnels. And 
 because the combat in this game was so good I have raised it .5 points because it combines so many 
 styles that everyone will find their combat smooth and easier. 
  So thats 10-.5 (for the missing dog) -.5 (because Im a 20 year old scaredy cat) +.5 (because no game 
 has such a versatile approach to combat) =9.5
  I hope you've enjoyed reading my review. Hopefully you will be able to go forth and enjoy Fallout 
 3 as much as I did... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JordanMJ
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 1, 2008 8:56 pm PT
Review:  I'm going to start this off getting all of the fan-boy praise out of my system before I get into 
 this; WEEEE I LOVE THIS GAME!!!
  
  Moving onward, Fallout 3 is set 100 and some odd years after a nuclear holocaust that practically 
 decimated U. S. A and turned everything into a huge wasteland. You play a Vault dweller who oddly 
 gets a lot of choice of how he/she will turn for just coming out of the womb.... but I congress. 
 The first 45 minutes or so will be spent in Vault 101, where you go through a 19 year tutorial. 
 After some complication, you end up in the wasteland looking for your father, as well as embark 
 on a quest to save/waste the wasteland. Oh, and do a meager collection of side quests, and if you're 
 bloodthirsty, kill everyone and everything.
  
  Fallout 3 is set in a post-apocalyptic world, and to address you whiny little crybabies about how 
 bland the environment looks, work your damn brains and look up the meaning of "nuclear wasteland". 
 The bleak and dreary "feeling" of a screwy future is captured well in the world; bottle caps from 
 soda are used as currency, everyone is pissed, slavers run rampant, a town with a nuke in the middle 
 exists, and just about every tree, building, and city is in a completely rundown state. The game 
 definitely does well in making you feel like you're in a wasteland.
  
  Combat in Fallout 3 is mostly real time, and can be paused for the use of the V. A. T. S system, which 
 lets you target individual parts on an enemy, and gives you a % chance of hitting them. People 
 can complain all they want about how "useless" it is, but it's damn handy if you have it on a difficulty 
 above "easy", and you want to get a glimpse of what you're up against so you don't get absolutely 
 slaughtered and blah blah blah. Combat is a pain if you don't have any stimpacks on you, as you 
 can be over-runned and out gunned in a matter of seconds. Running in gun a-blazing works well in 
 some situations, but later in the game it's just an quick and painful murder death kill.
  
  Speaking of killing, killing enemies in this game is so ridiculously inaccurate, and it gets even 
 more off-the-wall with the Bloody Mess perk. Shoot an enemy in the chest, his legs fall off, shoot 
 an enemy in the leg, his whole body explodes in a bloody mess. Luckily, the deaths are ridiculous 
 enough for me not to care, and just keep laughing and enjoying it all each time it happens. Honestly, 
 how can it be tiring to watch enemies explode into a bloody pulp after stubbing their toe?
  
  Stubbing toes reminds me a melee combat in this game... coincidence? Anyway, melee in this game 
 is pointless; not only does it feel clunky, it looks clunky as well. If you've played through the 
 game a bunch, and just want to plow through with nothing but your fists, well then more power to 
 you. Otherwise, using most melee weapons in this game is nothing short of useless. Example; I run 
 in with huge sledgehammer, enemy has tiny knife. I being pounding at enemy with said sledgehammer, 
 but the enemy can just simply block my hammer without effort.... see where I'm going with this one?
 
  
  So where does that leave me? This game uses the Oblivion engine, so it is very safe to say that 
 this is Oblivion with guns, but I prefer guns over constant melee combat anyway. My only gripe 
 with this game is that the main story feels rushed, and not very... inspired. The endings are done 
 in slide rubbish, so you don't really get to feel the overall impact of your choices. Oh, and you 
 can't continue the game after you beat it, so make sure you completionists get all the quests done 
 in one playthrough.
  
  Even if you don't want to do quests, you could just always explore everything; but a fair warning- 
 this game, like I said, is Oblivion with guns. So, don't expect every area to be unique; in fact, 
 a lot of places are simply copy-paste with minor changes (holes in walls in different areas, all 
 that fun stuff.)
  
  This game has its minor flaws, but all of those are blown away by all of its strong points. Though 
 the story isn't the greatest thing ever, Fallout 3 is definitely a single player experience that 
 cannot be missed. This game will eat up at LEAST a weekend of a casual gamer's schedule, and a 
 whole hell of a lot more to anyone else. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rogerjoseph6969
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 1, 2008 8:22 pm PT
Review:  After clocking more than 450 hours of game time in Oblivion and now with this title playing it 
 is sooo much better then their previous efforts.
  
  I loved their past work and to see they even surpassed my expectations knowing it's "oblivion with 
 guns" is incredible. Amazing work. So far nothing on the platform to compare. I own fable 2 but 
 there is no comparison here and the reviews reflect that.
  
  Very beatutiful graphics smooth back ground loading. Large expansive areas and very realistic environments 
 (considering, i've never lived in a toxic waste land) .
  I am curious to see waht kind of Downloadable content they have in store. If it's anything like 
 oblivion, damn that will be sweet. Cow armor anyone.
  
  Prepare for the future. I can see the Game of the year award sneaking on it. Feel Bad for GOW2 
 for it too will be stellar but will no clinch it again this time. Oblivion beat the first GOW. 
 Now its a repeat of the same. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deadalus91
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 1, 2008 5:06 pm PT
Review:  Firstly there are so many RPG's on the market, not just from Betheseda, but from Lionhead's Fable 
 2, Biowares Mass Effect and Oblivion. 
  All of these have been massive games that truly revoloutionizes this genre. My favourite has to 
 be Mass Effect however, Fallout 3 has arrived.
  
  The game starts you off at birth, you may be thinking why.
  But this all fits in very well. The 
 Doctor (your dad) is stating question if you are a boy or girl. You choose. He then goes on to 
 say lets see what you look like when your older, from there you create your own model character.
 
  How deep it takes you is about the same as Oblivion's creation, this however is not a bad thing.
 
  
  From there you will start young and start to unfold events whilst cunningly customizing your skills 
 (this works very well) .
  
  You eventually grow into a 19 year old and then escape to the surface, i am not revealing the story 
 as this would ruin the experience.
  
  Now to the points.
  
  
  The graphics are quite a remarkable edge, they have the physics and textures modeled perfectly.
 
  The sound and lighting could do with a little work as you see some jaggied edges now and again 
 but nothing serious, the sounds can be slightly annoying sometimes.
  
  There are a wide variety of weapons spanning from Baseball bats to laser pistols, this includes 
 rocket and missile launchers. Yummy yes?
  
  It has a nice amount of gore and is very violent, which sometimes can throw off the realism because 
 there can be too much, then again it was never built for realism was it?
  
  Sometimes however, the character voices can be exstreamly annoying esspecially female ones they 
 just cannot bare listening too.
  
  The speech system in this game works.
  Not as good as Mass Effect but it works well.
  
  It is a very long and exstensive game to complete 
 properly it should take a good 30 hours and even then you may be compelled to explore even more 
 with the map being absoutley huge.
  
  Overall Fallout 3 will keep you coming back for more.
  It may take alot to get into but once 
 your there you will love it. If your looking for a game to tide you over until Gear 2 or CoD WaW 
 then this is not for you as it will proberbly take you more time to do this game.
  It really is huge. Bigger than Oblivion yes. Bigger than Mass Effect yes.
  
  It truly is one 
 of the RPG's ever done proberbly the best.
  However this is only for RPG's fans and newcomers may be a little overwhemled.
  
  Overall top 
 game 9/10
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: guitarist1980
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 1, 2008 3:06 pm PT
Review:  I liked oblivion, thought it was a good game but it seemed better fit for a pc/keyboard style game.. 
 Fallout 3 delivers what oblivion didnt, a more engaging story and a better user interface for a 
 console. I was very skeptical about the combat with v. a. t. s system that they implented in this 
 game but it turned very fun and more strategic than i thought it would be. Another thing it does 
 a hell of alot better is the overall loading times. The loading time has decreased significantly 
 over all, which really helps out the overall gameplay imo. A mild complaint i have is that i wish 
 they implented an over the shoulder view point like dead space or gears, i find the 3rd person 
 view they chose.. well it basically sucks.. but no big deal. IMO its more addictive than oblivion 
 i love the combat and i like the story.. and just exploring this apocolyptic world is very fun. 
 Its basically everything i thought it would be. I highly recomend this game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheSilverArrow
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 1, 2008 11:47 am PT
Review:  Indeed, quite likely this will be Game of the Year. Graphically its very impressive, for one thing. 
 Also, despite being built with the Oblivion engine, the combat actually requires more than two 
 brain cells. Sure, Oblivion was a "pretty" game with multiple class options, etc but the combat 
 absolutely made the game fall from grace.
  
  Not the case this time. They struck a great balance with this game. In other Bethesda games, like 
 Morrowind or Oblivion, you have to play down your character so he doesnt get too strong. Im not 
 fond of that kin of micromanaging in a game to keep it challenging. Thats why i say the balance 
 and flow of Fallout 3 is spot on. Basically, you can just enjoy the game and not constantly limit 
 yourself - thats fun.
  
  This year has been bad for review's from Gamespot in my opinion. As I said, a 9.0 isnt far off 
 or wrong, it just makes me laugh that they gave GTA4 a 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deanfense
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 1, 2008 10:55 am PT
Review:  This game started out slow, so I am sure a bunch of people gave up... I almost did. My wife was 
 making fun of how hokey the beginning was, but then something special happened. The game picked 
 up, and last night when I turned on the TV to watch NFL Live on ESPN she actually says "Aren't 
 you going to play your game?". Fallout 3 won over the biggest video game critic I have ever met. 
 She never plays games, but when I jumped in the shower yesterday, I got out to find that she completed 
 two mission check points for me.
  
  Fallout has a HUGE replay value. It is a shooter game, but not like the ones were used to. It forces 
 you to think, and adapt. I can't get enough of this game. I just bought it so I would have something 
 to play until GoW 2 came out. If you only buy one game in the next six months this should be the 
 one... ENJOY! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: karriston
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 1, 2008 10:23 am PT
Review:  I've been looking forward to this for a while. I haven't played any other Fallout game, so luckily 
 they didn't influence my opinion on this. However, I have played Oblivion... and there's a LOT of 
 dja-vu. Not so much of a bad thing, but it seems lazy and too familiar. Still, the underlying 
 game is good enough for this to be forgiven.
  
  The game's set in Washington D. C. in the year 2277, 200 years after the world's been reduced to 
 a wasteland by nuclear war. You start off the game in a vault filled with the descendants of the 
 people that hid there to shelter from the war. As with many WRPGs, you start off customising your 
 character. Sex, race, face and hair are all fully customisable so you really can get your character 
 to look however you want. After this, you get to customise your S. P. E. C. I. A. L. (an acronym of the 
 game's base stats) stats, as well as your skills (big gun, medical, melee etc.) . The great thing 
 is the way the game handles this. The game takes you through different stages of your characters 
 life to make these choices. For example, gender and appearance are chosen at birth and skills are 
 chosen through an exam taken at school. It all helps to add to the fantastic atmosphere and immersion 
 in the storyline that the the game spews forth effortlessly. While on the subject of story, it's 
 not going to win any awards, but it's more than adequate, which I won't spoil here.
  
  One of the game's highlights is the combat. The game's combat can be played in 2 ways: as a semi-tactical 
 RPG or a full blown shooter. As a shooter, it's competent at best. You get a selection of guns, 
 point at the enemy and shoot. Nothing strange or wonderful. The combat comes into its own when 
 you enter V. A. T. S. mode. Upon holding down the V. A. T. S. button, the game scans for enemies and 
 pauses the action. Any enemies in the vicinity are then highlighted. When you choose an enemy, 
 you can then choose which body part to target. Depending on your skill with your current weapon 
 and distance from your target, a percentage is displayed beside the body part, representing your 
 chance of hitting it. A health meter for the part is also displayed. Once the health meter is depleted 
 for the body part, it's crippled. Shooting and crippling different limbs have different effects: 
 do you shoot for the head for a quick kill but risk missing, or do you aim for the arms / gun to 
 disarm them, but deal little damage? This combined with the wide range of guns (you can make some 
 weird and wacky guns with the Repair skill) adds tactics to the combat. It's a shame that you never 
 really need to use much thought beyond this though, as the enemy A. I. does little more than run 
 at you and shoot. The RPG is where the game really comes into its own though.
  
  Your S. P. E. C. I. A. L. stats, which can't be changed once you leave the vault (but can be increased/decreased 
 with equipment) change certain gameplay elements: how much you can carry, how many skill points 
 you receive at level up, how far from the enemy you have to be to detect them. It really makes 
 for a unique character, as do the skills. From big guns to small guns, from bartering to speech, 
 there's not much you haven't seen here before, but, as with the base stats, they help define your 
 character, as do the perks. Perks are special always-on abilities, one of which can be selected 
 upon levelling up. These range from doing extra damage to characters of the opposite sex to having 
 a mysterious stranger appear every so often to blow your enemies to bits. These are where the RPG 
 elements shine, and without them the game would seem duller. One thing that isn't dull, however, 
 is the atmosphere and world.
  
  The graphics are stunning. From facial expressions and characters look great, as do the landscapes, 
 desert-like though they may be. The samey environments seem repetitive after a while, but they 
 don't break the game. One negative that is truly disappointing regarding graphics, however, is 
 the animation. Your character iceskates instead of walking, so 1st person is preferred over 3rd.
 
  
  The comparison with Oblivion comes with everything else. From the way the game zooms in on a character's 
 face when you speak to them, to the way the game looks and plays in 3rd person, it's easy to mistake 
 the game for Oblivion. This makes the game seem like a clone, and really impacts the charm and 
 atmosphere. Still, it's not such a bad thing as Oblivion is an impressive game, but recycling the 
 engine with Fallout 3 seems like a bad idea, and the game becomes over-familiar before it's barely 
 started.
  
  So there you have it. A great game, 100s of hours worth of content, miles and miles of land to 
 explore, but the experience is dampened by its over-familiarity. Well worth it, but has its flaws. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Moester10
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 1, 2008 9:01 am PT
Review:  This game is the type of game that just eats up your time like nothing else. Its been a long time 
 since I've played a game that was so engrossing. I've lost over 10 hours of sleep since launch 
 just enjoying this game. Maybe the purists are right... its not Fallout... but it sure is the best 
 post-apocalyptic game that has come out in the last 10 or so years since Fallout was originally 
 released. 
  
  Most of this games' flaws are those of any sandbox type RPGs. Basically, the main quest can suffer 
 at the result of the side-quests. I found that the "Normal" difficulty was easy, with the setting 
 of Hard being just right. But that's mostly semantics. This game allows you some really great opportunities 
 to role-play and basically go on an adventure, and when you strip away everything that makes a 
 game great, its that feeling of having fun and accomplishing something. 
  
  I know that I will play this game over and over again which in my opinion is what truly makes a 
 game great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: legacywolf
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 1, 2008 5:51 am PT
Review:  Fallout 3 is a game with a mix of chocies and action. I am really impressed with how big the world 
 map is and there are just so many places to explore and loot. And about the looting, it is fun 
 exploring as you will most of the time face enemies such as raiders, super mutants or even ghouls. 
 Shooting off their heads give you a sense of satisfaction. The conversations in the game play a 
 big part in the game as it will decide how much you get for a quest or even if you get bad or good 
 karma. All is brilliant in Fallout 3 but the graphics could have been more dynamic and detailed. 
 The graphics looks like the sort of hellgate london. The game's storyline is not really immersive 
 too as you can practically ditch the main quest and just explore the capital wasteland. This game 
 has shown that it is worthy to be Game of the Year. In my opinion it has surpassed the greatness 
 of fable 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JB1994
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 15, 2009 10:17 am PT
Review:  
  
  So i got Fallout 3 a couple of days ago because the makers of Oblivion made this game so i thought 
 that it would be incredible, my thoughts, are great. I think that Bethesda really outdone themselves 
 again.
  
  Story- Well right now ive not played much of the game but ive got an idea whats going on. Basically 
 you were born in a place called "vault 101" you can chose what gender you are and how you look. 
 You start as a baby, then grow up to a 10 year old at your birthday party. After that you then 
 turn 16 and some cockroach things break into vault 101 and these people have taken your father 
 away or something like that. You then escape the vault and then your free to explore. After you 
 get out of the vault its were the game really begins. This is all ive got up to right now and i 
 have done a few quests.
  
  Gameplay- (9.6) You will probably tell that the makers from Oblivion made this game because its 
 basically an updated version of Oblivion with a different setting. The role playing elements are 
 now a lot more in depth like when your talking to someone there's a lot more options making it 
 more fun. As for combat well you can now use guns, which is pretty nice. Your able to use this 
 slow motion thing when the game alows you to get head shots or whatever part of the body you want 
 to shoot easier. Its really good.
  
  Graphics- (9.2) From what ive seen, Fallout 3 looks great. The environment inside the vault looks 
 pretty boring but when you get outside the game looks really good. It really gives you that feel 
 like your in a deserted waste land, that's been abandoned for years.
  
  Sound- (8.2) Voice acting is solid and there isn't much audio. So if your expecting a lot of music 
 like Oblivion then there really isn't. The only problem with the sound are the sound effects the 
 guns sound pretty crap, they sound like toys.
  
  I think that anyone who liked Oblivion should defiantly like Fallout 3. I think that its a solid 
 purchase for every RPG fan and i think that it is one of the xbox 360's best games yet. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: zaqqaz713
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 31, 2008 7:42 pm PT
Review:  This game is great and has a huge world just like the Elder Scrolls, has a great story and many 
 things to do, just like Elder Scrolls. To me i think the true prequal to this is Oblivion becuase 
 it is just so much like it. 
  
  The Good: Immense world, fun combat system, in depth side quests-more than you ever seen, similar 
 to the best PRG of all time Oblivion.
  
  The Bad: not much but the change in the leveling system isnt unique at all and isnt realistic unlike 
 Oblivion, using VATS can ruin a lot of the fun and skill of the game, the karma system isnt to 
 great and is barely important, doesnt live up to MY expectations and isnt better than Oblivion 
 (for reasons not opinion, for me the pit boy and HUD is kind of bland. The beginning is also a 
 little slow and boring until you get some good weapons.
  
  Getting imaginary numbers (EXP points) from quests is classic but boring, not original, and isnt 
 very realistic. Oblivions leveling system was fun, and realistic (IMHO) I am downing this game 
 because i am picky and i had so much hype for this game. (Its a great game though buy it really 
 i just wanted to let out what i think) I also hate how when i seen some brotherhood of steel guys 
 i killed them so i could get their amazing armor (one of the only outfits that look "cool" in any 
 sense) and i need "Power Armor Training" to use it. This pissed me off so much becuase i hate games 
 where i have to be a certain "level" just to where or use soemthing. That is unrealistic, not unique 
 and extremely annoying and that is why i liked Oblivion, i get Umbra, and Ebony armor at level 
 1 i can use it "hell ya!". Oh wait hell no! That !@#$ is retarded. They turned what was suspose 
 to be a revolutionary, absolute "all-time" RPG into just a normal RPG.
  
  This game is still great and is DEFINETLY worth playing but for me it was a little dissapointing. 
 You might (probably will) have a different opinion than me but i still think this game is kick 
 !@# and i have been palying nothing but this since it came out. 
  
  92/100 
::::::

::::::
UserName: N9ne-xx
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 31, 2008 6:51 pm PT
Review:  This game was worth the wait, and possible the money, and possible the time depending on how much 
 you have.
  
  Starting off with the story; it's decent, nothing amazing; but the landscape and the world map 
 and every town makes the story what it is. So much to explore, so many things to do, not enough 
 time for it.
  
  VATS-system is surprinsgly fair, to be honest this is my first fallout i've ever played and i expected 
 that it was going to be cheap, but nah, it's not.
  
  These are the two best gaming genres you could possible put together: Shooting & RPG. Character 
 interaction is something that can't be complained about even though sometime's it's annoying in 
 the choices you have to say.
  
  And it could end up being very frustrating, which is the only down-side; but other then that, this 
 game deserves a 9. (If i wasn't too lazy i'd deliever a better review but yeah) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: flavioviana
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 31, 2008 6:22 pm PT
Review:  The game is great overall and I'm a big fan of both previous games. My only comment is that the 
 character modeling seems a bit old and not as detailed as I expected, seems that the Oblivion engine 
 is a bit older nowadays. Also, 3rd person view is mainly useless since you can only see your character 
 from behind. He moves in a funny way as if he slid across the terrain instead of walking or running. 
 It would have been excellent to see this on another graphic engine (Mass Effect quality) .
  
  A few silly issues aside the rest of the game is just 100% pure Fallout fun. From the awesome 
 stuff you pick up along the way to the hilarious perks and stats you get to the cool storyline 
 and side quests.
  
  Kudos to the Bethesda team for taking such a difficult project and making it shine. They were able 
 to make a game that gives you the same sense of freedom as the GTA series but in an incredibly 
 cool Mad Max style setting. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: swiney50
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 2, 2008 3:17 pm PT
Review:  Normally I wait a bit to review a game. No matter I can always ammend my review as I move through 
 the game. These are really what amount to my first impressions. To say that this game is brilliant 
 is a gross understatement. Did I say it was magical? Yes it is pure magic. What Bethesda has done 
 both with 'Oblivion' and now 'Fallout 3' is to create an entirely new genre of entertainment. It 
 is like a game... but something more than that. It is like a book.. but again something more than 
 that... it is like a movie... but even more than that because you are the central character and you 
 determine, to a large extent, the outcome of the show. It is a game that both challenges and excites 
 the mind while providing plenty of heart pounding excitement. It requires both thought, guile, 
 cleverness, strength and intelligence. The Wasteland is fraught with hidden dangers, surprising 
 quests and great challenges. The characters that you will meet are memorable and the voice acting 
 is superb. This is not a first person shooter which is a mistake that some reviewers have made 
 who have, therefore, rated it poorly. In this game you will not be able to hit the ground running 
 and blasting because the story begins with a clever set up sequence to define your character and 
 his or her traits and fundamental abilities. This is sequence is nothing short of brilliant I might 
 add. Fallout 3 is an RPG game which does not stand for Rocket Propelled Grenade it stands for Role 
 Playing Game. You become a character in the game and that is the fun of it. Let me also make another 
 point that many have missed. The graphics in this game are also brilliant as well and not because 
 they are photo realistic... they are not. The graphic rendition is meant to create a certain atmosphere 
 in conjunction with both the sound track and the story. It succeeds brilliantly. The Graphical 
 presentation creates a truly magical world that convey's the impression of a post apocolyptic wasteland 
 without photo realism. It is not clear to me what a photo realistic rendition would accomplish 
 when it is the story and the questing that are paramount. The graphic's in this game are surreal 
 and that is what the designers inteded. I have only scratched the surface but am really beginning 
 to sense the depth and richness of this game.
  
  SPECIAL NOTE ABOUT THE GRAPHIC APPROACH:
  
  I suspect that the graphic presentation was meant 
 to be the way that it is. The game developers did not want to rely on photo realism say... as in.... COD 
 4. They may have concluded that so called 'eye popping' graphics would have detracted from the 
 overall effect that they were trying to achieve and I agree with them. I believe that the development 
 team wanted to create a surreal environment that had a distinct if not somewhat unusual character... and 
 it does work. What is amazing is that from the at times almost cartoonish graphics these amazing 
 graphical moments arise that are subtle yet convey an amazingly desolate, intensly post apocalyptic 
 world that has a certain visceral feeling of horror to it. When coupled with the howl of this windswept 
 wasteland this combination creates a real eerie feeling. For exaple At times you get these sweeping 
 vistas of the wasteland that seem amazingly, if not beautifully rendered.. or, for example, a scene 
 emerges from a momentary lighting effect as dusk rolls in that are just plain stunning with a real 
 feeling of the aftermath of a nuclear holocost. This is one of the ironies of the game that by 
 utilizing a kind of subtle impressionism that is simplistic while able to create this complex post 
 apocalypic aura. Bethesda could have gone with photo realistic settings but I am glad that they 
 did not. Also the somewhat cartoonish character of the enemy models belies the brutality of the 
 combat giving it a very surreal flavor. I love it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: godfather_1
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 31, 2008 3:37 pm PT
Review:  I had never played the original Fallout 3 games, but when this was announce years ago, hearing 
 that there would be a post-apocolyptic RPG from Bethesda, I had boarded the hype-train. I have 
 to admit that in my mind I was actually thinking of a "Oblivion with gun" concept.
  
  As months passed and more gameplay videos and news came out I started to loose interest in the 
 game for some reason. I guess the concept of Fallout 3 being exactly like Oblivion was not what 
 I had in mind.
  
  This week I was wrecking my head over whether to get Dead Space or Fallout 3. On the UK release 
 date of Fallout 3 I went to GAME and standing there and went "F*** it, I'll buy Fallout 3 for the 
 360" (I have both consoles) .
  
  Onto the main review and I have to say this game is very addicting. I would have to say that i'm 
 having the same experience as Oblivion. I guess Fallout 3 is a hint better, as I think Bethesda 
 has improved on the story elements of the game which adds to the atomosphere.
  
  GRAPHICS: - Fantastic graphics with a well built wrecked D. C., breathtaking when you just walk 
 around with the sunset hitting the landscape, you just have to stand there and gaze at your surroundings. 
 The player models could have been improved, but has been a step forward from Oblivion.
  
  GAMEPLAY: - Easy controls, VATS is so simple to use. Enemies are smarter than I hoped, a little 
 harder to takedown, but none the less fun. I could have used some sort of transport such as a bike 
 or something, nothing too big. Third-person is awful to play in, first person would be a good bet. 
 Speech trees are easy to use with some great speech text to choose from.
  
  SOUND: - Great music to add to the atmosphere, whether you are just exploring or in combat, the 
 music suits every situation. Bethesda seem to have a knack for getting the right music for situations 
 like they accomplished in Oblivion. Voice acting is also good, even though some are a bit annoying 
 like Moira (some high pitched b****)
  
  OVERALL: - Even though I haven't even scratched the surface yet, I encourage all RPG lovers to 
 play this, even if you have not played the previous titles before, Bethesda has catered Fallout 
 fans and non-Fallout fans with a game, that gives you a gaming and movie-like experience that you 
 won't forget for a while.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: spikey3
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 31, 2008 3:27 pm PT
Review:  The "MEAT" of the game you ask? Well thats easy. Survival....
  
  You see- Ive had to start over. Thats right. I had to rethink my fighting, while living afterwards. 
 In this game you can box yourself in a corner in a hurry... This isnt just kill or be killed. After 
 the fight matters here. Its all about survival in Fallout 3. If you go out there without thinking 
 about how to survive, you wont. Its that simple. Do what it takes to leave you in the best shape 
 before, and after the quest. If you cant do this without lots of damage, then- DONT do the quest 
 yet. Wait till ur a little stronger or smarter or what ever the many enhancements your toon may 
 be gaining later... This is a thinking type of combat involved fun game, and you dont go in there 
 blastin away at everything that moves, or you just wont live very long.... Simple, and yet not 
 so simple. And Brilliant as well.... 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: FleshTone
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 2, 2008 6:53 am PT
Review:  I may be the odd man out; but I simply can't agree with many of the reviews giving this a 9+. It's 
 a good game; there's no question - but I think many people are simply swept up in the hype... this 
 game has several technical glitches which diminish the enjoyment of the game play; and at 'normal' 
 or higher, this game becomes very difficult... but not in a realistic or logical way. Rather than 
 improving the AI of the mobs, for example, they simply take more damage (on harder levels, they 
 require 8 direct shots to the 8 to kill) . This decreases some of the realism that made Fallout 
 2 such a classic (where swift, brutal fights ruled the day) . On the plus side, there are literally 
 dozens of quests - and you can choose how you proceed through them (with hits/increases to your 
 karma as a result of your decision making) . The weapons are logical for the theme of the game (but 
 not as diverse as soe have said) . The S. P. E. C. I. A. L. system remains a strength of the title as 
 it was in the previous. All in all, I recommend it - but try and get it on sale. 7.5 score. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HalcyonJedi
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 31, 2008 1:42 pm PT
Review:  Alright, I have to admit; I have never been fond of the first 2 Fallout games. I played both of 
 them briefly, but the turn based strategy/combat was just a turn off for me. With that said, I 
 was very interested when I heard that Bethesda was creating a new Fallout game from the ground 
 up that would essentially be realtime from a 3rd person or 1st person perspective. What I did not 
 realize, was that Bethesda would attempt to pass off this Oblivion mod as a genuine Fallout game.
 
  
  I did enjoy Oblivion - it offered gorgeous graphics, an absolutely gigantic world to explore, and 
 a dizzying amount of content to absorb, explore, and tinker with. But it did have its issues: poor 
 character animations, weird graphical issues, and a clunky combat system. All of these issues are 
 present in Fallout 3; everyone of them. 
  
  But this isn't an Oblivion review, it's a Fallout 3 review. I definitely enjoyed the initial character 
 creation chapter, and props to Bethesda for coming up with something unique in terms of the character 
 creation/introduction process. Seeing your character at various times during his childhood was 
 very well done, and actually connected you to your character more so than other games in the genre. 
 
  
  After leaving the Vault however, this is where the problems begin... despite all of the hype over 
 the VATS combat engine, the only real reason to use it is because real-time combat will drive you 
 absolutely insane. The bottom line is that it is quite bad. I won't call it terrible, because it 
 isn't; but it is very clunky and poorly implemented. Attempting to shoot an enemy without VATS 
 assistance is virtually impossible, despite the fact that enemy AI shows no intelligence - they 
 simply charge you straight on regardless of the circumstances. 
  
  The "action points" system was meant to pay homage to the old-school turn based tactics of previous 
 Fallout games. This was something that the hardcore Fallout fanboys/girls demanded be included 
 in the game, else ruin the "feel" of traditional Fallout games. But instead, Bethesda used a shady 
 tactic to convince everyone that the "action points" system would not be forgotten and that they 
 had included it as a major component of Fallout 3. What they failed to tell anyone was that it 
 was identical to the "stamina" bar used in Oblivion. If you swing your weapon too fast or too often 
 in Oblivion, your bar will drain and you will be forced to retreat or go on the defensive until 
 it recharges. Same thing in Fallout 3: use all of your "action points" in VATS, and you will be 
 forced to run away from an enemy or go hide until it recharges so you can take the fight to them 
 yet again. 
  
  Graphically, Fallout 3 does not disappoint. The visuals are nicely polished, and the Wastelands 
 are exactly as you would imagine: desolate, dangerous, and virtually abandoned. The art team has 
 done a great job here with showing an ancient "shell" of what Washington DC used to be. It does 
 have its fair share of issues though that were problems in Oblivion: bad character animations, 
 pop-in, and clunky combat controls. I'm not saying that the combat here should be as smooth and 
 fast as say, Call of Duty 4; but for a game that is virtually based on combat with firearms it 
 could have been a bit more polished. 
  
  On the plus side however, I can say this: This game is freaking HUGE. A simple trip from Megaton 
 to deliver a message to a nearby town took me nearly 30 minutes, not to mention the distractions 
 I came upon along the way. Like its counterpart, this game is just jam-packed full of content and 
 places to explore that can easily distract you from your main quest for hours and hours on end. 
 Seemingly vacant buildings are jam packed with enemies and equipment - while exploring what I thought 
 was a vacant school, I spent well over an hour going thru every hallway and every room.
  
  Some may say that I set out from the beginning just to bash on this game since it has received 
 high praise from virtually every media outlet, but that is not the case. I *REALLY* wanted to like 
 this game... I truly did. But after the first several hours spent wandering the wasteland, I realized 
 that this game was virtually identical to Oblivion. In my humble opinion of course. For those of 
 you who are on the fence about this game, I recommend giving it a rental to see how you enjoy the 
 first 4-5 hours. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vader359
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 31, 2008 11:22 am PT
Review:  to all you people out there that are trashing this game i respect your opinon but you dont know 
 what your missing. this game is awesome as a big fan of oblivion this is right up there . the graphics 
 are amazing and the whole story line is really well written. the sound is top notch. ok so the 
 combat is a little wonky but you have to admit the v. a. t. s system is pretty fun especially when 
 you see a head shot or limb go flying. i like how after a while some of the enemys will try an 
 run away because they are gettin thier a*** kicked an you can either go chase them down or not 
 your choice. sometime in combat its better to run than to fight but isnt that how it always is. 
 not to keen on the level capping out at twenty but thats minor compared to the rest of the game. in 
 my opinon no game is perfect there are always going to be good points and bad points but in this 
 case the good outweighs the bad. i will take fighting the gangs over monster any day, especially 
 those damn lobster-men. over all a great game well worth the money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: billaboy69
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 31, 2008 10:20 am PT
Review:  I'm only in about 6 hours and i've never felt so pulled in by a game before. Thats all i need to 
 say. The setting is right. The story is great so far. The environment is awesome. Unlike Oblivion, im 
 actually scared for my life while walking around. Its dangerous and highly interactive with the 
 pick up almost anything gameplay. There are hookers and whores and cursing kids. you can use drugs 
 and get addictied. u can blow people up and watch their body parts fly off. what else do u want in 
 a game. Its better than oblivion in a lot of ways. The graphics are good too. i like the wasteland 
 with the tinted green sky from the post apocolyptic times the have scorned the land for 200  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gold_prevalence
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 31, 2008 7:28 am PT
Review:  Where do I start... perhaps when your character is born. It's truly a game worth playing, one way 
 or another. The artwork, voice acting, action sequences, and the millions of variations you can 
 do in the game is worth the money. There are minor differences in the game from the previous ones 
 in the series. You do not travel from place to place via map on the screen. You literally walk 
 from where you are, to an unexplored area. All usable items worn over time will deteriorate and 
 repairing is necessary for those. The VATS system implements the aiming system from it's predecessors 
 quite nicely. Don't think just because you can pause the game and aim at a body part that it will 
 land. I've had many attempts and both succeeded and then others... miss completely and caused a 
 nice chunk of damage to be brought to me. And being able to good and bad in a game at the same 
 time really can make you enjoy. Where else can you give water to beggars but then blow the head 
 off of the town leaders, or turn people into slaves, but disarm a bomb to save a town. This is 
 the only game where I've played less than a days time and had to save over 100 times. Not because 
 of reliability, but because of consequences of your character's actions or hesitations. Open ended 
 / sandbox is the icing on this cake... you want to be level 3 and fight a Super Mutant Behemoth, 
 go right ahead. You want to play a game where you can eat a corpse in front of the whole town, 
 have at it. The choices YOU can make go on and on. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tidal-Spiral
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 31, 2008 3:25 am PT
Review:  Let's start with what everyone knows. It's Fallout, and it's number 3. The long awaited sequel 
 to number 2, which was my personal introduction to the series and I'm willing to bet is a lot of 
 people's beginning. So instead of beating around the bush let's hit the main G-spots and wrong 
 holes of this title.
  
  Right: The atmosphere is totally post-nuclear, the Wastes are long and tedious and desolate as 
 they should be. Good job Bethesda. All environments in fact make sense as to what is appropriate 
 for the timespan, and despite complaints any my own feelings, they did try to make compelling characters. 
 Much better than any other game I've played recently - just not better characters than Fallout 
 2. (Keep it in mind - Fallout 2 introduced me, and I'm very fond of it so those references are 
 common.) The combat is gruesome and wonderful (VATS is brilliant and shall NEVER be exchanged so 
 long as you hold onto Fallout - that is, no Fallout 4 or 5 or 6 will recieve different treatment.) 
 but does become mundane. Cool, head flying off. AWESOME, BODY BLOWN APART! Yet where are the moral 
 feelings attatched to my decisions?
  
  Not because it's boring, but why? Because you don't have the awesome allies of the past. Sulik 
 - enslaved tribal warrior with expertise in sledge hammer and SMG's. Vic, cowardly pistol and mechanical 
 expert. Cassidy, balls to the wall shooter ally. Marcus, super mutant big guns carrying badass. 
 K-9, close assualt battle dog robot. What's the common difference here? All are not represented 
 in any way by Fallout 3. They seriously needed a more awesome cast for this game. The job isn't 
 wasted - there are definitely good parts (Moira, the Alfea townsfolk, different citizens done well.) 
 The problem is you don't have permanent allies who affect the story on their own. Their own plights 
 mean nothing compared to yours.
  
  Bad: Little resembles the original. There are many enemy types and organizations that fit, but 
 most locales are cheap knockoffs of original spots. The many gas stations / garges / half towns 
 in existence are based on old material but styled much more difficultly (normally these designs 
 would be easy to navigate in 2-D but with the full dimensional range even a simple shop keeper 
 visit becomes a tedious long walk. It extends the game time, but not for story or effect, just 
 sheer tediousness. We miss lots of the moral elements of the past games, especially the idea that 
 mutants become insane but the ones avoiding mutation are just as crazy. This game seems to support 
 the idea that mutations are generally bad instead, and it cancels out what Fallout 2 taught us 
 about how an individual's actions are what really count.
  
  Overall - great game for new Fallout fans, but a three quarter's experience for the dedicated. 
 We appreciate what was done right but expect more of the past to be brought up next time and much 
 more likable characters. Do that with what VATS is, and I'll be your full supporter. Good job Bethesda. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iron_zealot7531
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 30, 2008 11:06 pm PT
Review:  After the massive anticlimax that is the end of the game I'm still coming to terms with how I feel 
 about Fallout 3. Its definitely enjoyable, but I'd rank it well below the original fallout games. 
 In fact, more than anything else this game made me want to go dust off my old fallout disks, too 
 bad I have vista = (.
  
  The story is pretty weak, with clear good guys and bad guys, and lets just say the final "boss" 
 is no Master. The gameplay is alot of fun, but not nearly as tactical as the combat in fallout. 
 Also there isnt the same sense of consequences for your actions that the original games had. The 
 1st person perspective doesnt detract from the game, and if anything I feel it adds to the immersion. 
 Exploring the giant world is one of the game's greatest pleasures, and this added immersion definately 
 helps make exploration fun.
  
  The game just doesnt really seem to know what it wants to be. It kinda feels like a fallout game, 
 but it also feels alot like oblivion. I'd say the game is 3 parts oblivion, 1 part fallout. It's 
 just not a dark and humorous as I expected from a fallout game. The Brotherhood of steel is diverse 
 and politically correct, and are the clear good guys in this game. When they were at best neutral 
 in the first fallouts.
  
  Overall I'd give the game a B+. I really enjoyed it, but a large part of me would have preffered 
 if Interplay had finished Van Buren*, and not sold the Fallout liscence to Bethesda.
  
  * Van Buren was the code name for the "real" Fallout 3 that was being made by interplay (makers 
 of the original fallout games) , but was eventually cancelled
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: gunslinger_boy
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 30, 2008 10:45 pm PT
Review:  I'll start of by saying that this is one of the hardest reviews I have ever written. Not because 
 it has has a thin red line between good and bad qualities, but because of the amount of opportunities 
 you are given at one time make every adventure into this world unique! Honestly, this was the game 
 that I was waiting all year for, and dying to get my hands on. Was it worth the wait and the hype? 
 Is it the next Oblivion? The years best game? Read on readers, and you will see. 
  
  
  To start off, the graphics are amazing, but as with every other game, it has it's blemishes. Every 
 now and then, you will see your weapon clip and go straight through a wall, and you still magically 
 move through grass and bushes without any reaction from them. Although some still see it, I think 
 the facial movements, while still rough at spots, look much cleaner and the lip-sync is more fluid. 
 Now to clarify, THIS GAME IS ABSOLUTELY GORY!!! There is no other way to say it. Walking through 
 halls, down the streets, by trash cans, etc, you will see almost every part of a body, inside and 
 out, strung across the wasteland. When using V. A. T. S. (more on that later) , and you land the final 
 blow on a limb or the head, it usually ends with blood and gore going everywhere, and even painting 
 the floor and walls red. Great effect for both shock and style. Now onto the environment and characters 
 themselves. The only words that come to mind are stylish and detailed. The environment has tons 
 of little detail and objects that put you directly into the world. Characters look cool and distinctive 
 and I've yet to see a recycled character design. 
  
  
  Now to the talk of the town, the gameplay. First off, the V. A. T. S. ( Vault-tec Assisting Targeting 
 System) just plain rocks!!! Basically, it pauses the game to let you shoot different parts of the 
 opponents body, from arms, legs, head, and even the weapon the foe is holding at the time. Its 
 original, easy to use, and adds that flair of, "Oh s***, i just blew that... name body part... off 
 with my gun/melee weapon! That was so cool!" Yes moments like that make Fallout 3! Just don't go 
 thinking that you can use this without some sort of consequence, and that is where action points 
 come in. As you use V. A. T. S., the AP meter drains, and when it is empty, you have to let it recharge. 
 Fortunately, it refills quickly, so tough gunfights aren't as tough as they could be otherwise. 
 However, when not using V. A. T. S., the shooting takings some getting used to. This is not Farcry 
 2 or CoD4, mind you, so don't try to play it as such. With that mindset, you will play this game 
 just fine. Speaking of guns, there are a surprising amount to be found. There are pistols, shotguns, 
 assault rifles, a minigun, and a bazooka. The pistols, shotties and assault rifles all have a few 
 different models, like a revolver and standard 10mm. Then there are the melee weapons that include 
 pool cues, butterfly knives, tire irons, and many many more. On top of that, you even have energy 
 weapons. To top it off, you have my personal favorite, the Rock-It Launcher. This baby can turn 
 the most useless junk in your inventory into fast moving death-bringers. From teddy bears to plates, 
 darts to old books, all are fare play. Just don't expect to shoot something as big a door or dumpster. 
 This IS NOT the gravity gun from Half Life 2. Kinda wish it was. *sigh* The best thing about it 
 is that the gameplay stays frest because of the constant finding of new weapons, new enemies, new 
 locations, new characters, and...
  
  
  ... missions. This game has an abundance of missions. From story to side quests, this game has you 
 covered. I have played the game around 15 hours, and only got 2 main story missions complete, mainly 
 because I am captivated by all the things around me, including the side quests. Many of the characters 
 you encounter will have a problem to be fixed and/or a wrong to be righted. Thankfully, from what 
 I have played, they are all fun and engaging, while being challenging. Thankfully it stays challenging 
 without being infuriating. All of this is done in a huge game word, and is easily bigger than Farcry 
 2 and GTA IV put together. No exaggerating whatsoever! The only gripe I really have about the gameplay 
 is that, other than than the warp-to location ( if you have discovered the area that you want to 
 go to ) , all is done by on-foot travel. To top it off, there is no sprint button. Why can't my 
 repair skill get myself off from walking to fixing up on of those motorcycles I see every once 
 in a while to ride to a location!? But that is it. BTW: I have to hand it to Bethesda for one of 
 the most interesting and unique openings and tutorial levels for any game to date. 
  
  
  Now onto sound, and I must say, wow is the only word that comes to mind. For being a wasteland, 
 there are a bunch of noises. From crickets chirping to the sounds of the breeze, and even nearby 
 water sources, the effects are stunning. Guns sound appropriate ( got to love it when you go into 
 V. A. T. S. and hear the bullet slow down with the time. It kinda has that Matrix feel to it) , characters 
 sound gruff and pissed, raiders yell profanities and warcries toward you when spotted, and more. 
 Their isn't much music in the game, but like in Dead Space, as an example, the music kicks in when 
 you are in immanent danger. For the plot and tone, the sounds are near perfect.
  
  
  The replayablitiy for this game is high, and for those who love achievements, FO3 will take at 
 lease three (3) playthroughs to get the Good, Neutral, and Bad karma achievements. Go to http://www. achieve360points. com 
 to see what I mean. With a wide open landscape, immersive gameplay, a cool story, and an altogether 
 well made game, we have a contender for Game of the Year for sure! 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShiroTehAwesome
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 30, 2008 9:02 pm PT
Review:  Bethesda knows what I want. Limitless freedom.
  I did whatever I felt in Oblivion, and that's what I'll do in Fall Out 3. Some say it doesn't do 
 a great job being true to the Fall Out series, but I never played any of the Fall Out games so 
 I could care less.
  
  The combat in this game does an excellent job keeping you interested and keeping you think. You 
 can't just run in and blow enemies away. VATS does an excellent job, too.
  
  One thing you must keep in mind is to save a lot. I've found myself just getting blown up by junk 
 when not even paying attention. I got tired of being underground so much from the damn main quest 
 so I just started doing my own thing. Why not?
  
  As for the PS3 version, I was informed it sucked.
  Sucks for the people who bought the 600 dollar 
 paper weights.
  
  There's my review. It's more of a rant.
  Bottom line this game deserves a 9.9 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BigGunTommy90
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 30, 2008 8:48 pm PT
Review:  Well, I basically summed it up on the top. I must say, if I ever had to love a man, Todd Howard 
 would be the one (not to be creepy or anything) . The vats shooting system never seems to get old 
 and ties in perfectly with the combat. Let's face it, we all have those friends who play first 
 person shooters on the easiest difficulty possible. They either can't aim a gun or they're trying 
 to get some far-fetched achievement without the conflicts that come with higher difficulties. Well, 
 if they suck at shooters, then this game is there best friend. Nothing says friendly fun like a 
 safety button (and it looks amazing!) . Granted this safety button has a limit (the AP bar) , but 
 it's still something your ten year old cousin can play. Don't let him though. That's not morally 
 right. I could go on forever about stats and other things, but I have to go play this game now, 
 so. Come to think of it. I have no idea why I'm righting this? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NCO21
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 30, 2008 8:14 pm PT
Review:  I must say this game is a great experiance.
  
  One the cons to this game i must say is the the post war era of 1950 style history. This game is 
 set in 2277 that 1950 era doesnt fit in. Dont get me wrong it is the best era to creat a game off 
 of such as this but to skip over what is our modern day to the future isnt a good idea. I would 
 of based it right in that 50s era and to make up for the future items i would of set the story 
 into the area 51 appeal, so it can flawlessly fit into the puzzle. I just think its a story line 
 messup to jump past modern times or completley eradicate it all together so the 50s era can hold 
 up bad move say its not so. 
  
  Another issue is game saves everytime you leave enter new area etc. it auto saves and since this 
 game is important to save games prior to actions it would be smart to allow saves to be titled 
 and text added so you can keep track of them and place them in order. 
  
  The game killer i know most gamers arnt playing to read and learn so having dialog to the game 
 itself is very important but constantly talking clicking what says what, gets old and then this 
 how the story gets destroied players tend skip over it all just to get thru the day of chatting 
 to continue the journey.
  
  Just Junk but another mans treasure:
  i notice that theres tons of stuff you can pickup and carry. The issues there are you can carry 
 an unlimited amount of stuff or have an unlimited amount stuff inside a samson breifcase. Most 
 those treasure hunter players dont like leaving stuff behind and so they get the only limitations 
 of tons of stuff that is walking slow and moving slow. My cure to this or stratigey is to have 
 1 area close to a quick travel location and just dump what i collected off and return to areas 
 where i left stuff to reload at the max carrying weight. This way you can have easy place go to 
 grab stuff and get the ball rolling rather finding it.
  
  Whats i like:
  After ripping the heart out the game i would like say im putting it back in and shocking it to 
 revive it. This game is a game and all have flaws and dislikes but great thing about this one it 
 over rules the dislikes like Mose spreading red sea. Its a awsome game by far no one can come close 
 to it. Hek its Halo, Resident Evil, Hitman, and Final Fantasy all in one. 
  
  Sampling games rather music is hitting a new feild and this one drove in a grand slam homerun...
 
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: n31else
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 30, 2008 5:02 pm PT
Review:  this game in my opinion is one of a kind. it can be very fun and entertaining but at the same time 
 it can be very scary and very realistic. the game is very similar to a nightmare, in ways of the 
 vibes it gives off, the idea that this can happen, and many other ways. the game play is great 
 but kinda of glitchy and freezes from time to time, but other than that outstanding, the new targeting 
 system V. A. T. S. is very entertaining and adds a great aspect to the game. the story is very entertaining 
 and once you get into it its very hard to get out. it is very similar to oblivion and morrowind 
 because of the feel and style of the game, but in many other ways it is completely different and 
 is the best of its type. i would recommend it to anyone who likes a sense of realism in video games 
 and great stories, and limitless control. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jimmmmmy1
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 30, 2008 2:48 pm PT
Review:  I'll have to admit, before Tuesday I was a Fallout virgin. In the days of its prime on the PC I 
 was more interested in Warcraft II, and the wonderful fair on the original Playstation. Now that 
 I've played this new installment I feel as if I wasted all of that time on Warcraft for no good 
 reason!
  
  Bethesda will go down in history for all fans of video gaming. They released a game that even without 
 its illustrious reputation easily deserves a 9-10 score, and even more so since it did in fact 
 live up to the die hard fans expectations.
  
  The sprawling and hauntingly beautiful terrain causes the deepest parts of you to ignite with passion, 
 and you truly will feel what post apocalyptic Earth would be like. It's Beautiful.
  
  For those of you wondering I didn't just give it a perfect 10, it is purely a matter of opinion, 
 and I personally would have enjoyed it more if it were closer to the FPS genre. That being said, 
 this game isn't an FPS, and I have to recognize its brilliance regardless. If you haven't played 
 this game yet... if you haven't heard of it yet... get out from under your rock, and get to the nearest 
 store, and buy this. You will pray to the dark gods of the chaos realms to let this game continue 
 forever and ever.
  
  ^^ Cheers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Althax
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 30, 2008 2:46 pm PT
Review:  This game is just plain awesome. If you like the action/RPG (heavier on the RPG side) genre it's 
 a sure thing. While it does have the oblivion feel to it, the game is definetly not oblivion with 
 guns. 
  
  I haven't finished the game but I have played enough to know that I want to. A lot of big RPG's 
 tend to lose me halfway through the game and I never end up finishing it. Either the story gets 
 lost or you get sidetracked by so many side quests that you forget about the story (Oblivion) . 
 This game however, has good RPG elements in it but doesn't take itself too seriously. It's fun, 
 whimsical, and addicting.
  
  I have the 360 version and the graphics are good. Most of the pics on the net are of the PC version 
 which of course are going to be sharper and better. But overall I like what I see. The sound is 
 also great and the voice acting I've seen so far has been top notch by game standards. The story 
 is ok so far, nothing hugely exciting yet but knowing the previous games in the series, I expect 
 that to come down the line. The quests are interesting, exciting, and worthwhile. I keep wanting 
 more exp so I can get better at all my skills. The game keeps pulling me in to see what's next, 
 to find more gear, to kill better and faster, and also (and this is a big one) to want to come 
 back and play again as a different type of character so I can approach quests differently.
  
  The biggest complaint I have is that the animation definetly has the oblivion feel. Facial 
 expression is limited and everything moves fairly puppet like. But it's easy to overlook that unless 
 you're nit picky. Forget about 3rd person view, it's only good to take a look at your outfit, not 
 good to see or watch.
  
  The map is huge and you really feel the impact of the lonely wasteland. Cities feel like a real 
 oasis against the nuclear desolation. 
  
  I would recommend this to anyone who likes action/RPG games that isn't afraid of some level of 
 depth to their games. I have friends who say Fable is about as complex as they want their RPG experience 
 to be so if that's your cup of tea then this might be deeper and more complex than you like. But 
 honestly this game is fairly middle of the road in terms of RPG complexity. It's not hardcore but 
 it's got more customization and choices and decisions to be made than kingdom heart or fable 2. 
 I would liken it more to Bioshock with a lot more RPG elements to it.
  
  This is also not a run and gun FPS, you have to take your time and explore. If you couldn't care 
 less about exploring new areas and would rather run around shooting everything, then you'll probably 
 be dissapointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bIacklisted
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 1, 2008 3:33 pm PT
Review:  This game has everything and anything you could ever want in an single player R-P-G. It provides 
 choices that effect everyone and everything. An epic story line that sucks you in from the start 
 of "birth". It also has some of the best graphics on the market sufficing Gears of War and Oblivion 
 by a long shot. The combat system is a breeze to get used to and is easily the funnest out of all 
 FPS games I have ever played and with V. A. T. S it just makes it that much more fun and shows its 
 "tyrant" graphics off. Understandably some people don't like V. A. T. S because they think its to 
 easy but really you don't have to use it but its fun and always for an EPIC kill show for you and 
 others to enjoy. The quests are not repetitive in the least always something new and exciting for 
 a challenge. The Waste Lands are very vast and flourish with utter post apocalyptic beauty. The 
 one single problem I have and learned to get around with was the cursor that shows you where to 
 go in small places but this is solved with checking your local map every now and then and I know 
 there are some Indolent people out there who find it to be a "drag" to keep checking the local 
 map but come on people its a simple tap of the buttons not that difficult. And to all those ignorant 
 people calling this Oblivion with guns play the first two Fallout's and you'll see the game-play 
 is the same as them just adapted to the next generation. And besides Oblivion had a crap story 
 and the only reason you keep coming back to it now and then is because you hope it becomes fun 
 again but guess what its not going to become fun. So there is my two cents on Fallout 3.
  
  *Stay Black-Listed* 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Church_TOG
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 30, 2008 10:43 am PT
Review:  Fallout 3 is a departure from the game style that Fallout fans of the past are used to. Gone is 
 the grid style, turn by turn combat system, top down camera. It has been replaced with the Oblivion 
 Engine and a 1st or 3rd person style of FPS/RPG Hybridization.
  
  With that said, this is not Oblivion with Guns. It is more like Oblivion meets Mad Max with all 
 of the feel of the predecessors in the series. 
  
  The Graphics and Sound simply put, get a 10. I have not experienced any glitching in either area 
 in over 10 hours of gameplay. Beyond that, the visuals and the audio are immersive and draw you 
 in to the world. 
  
  Replay value gets a 9.9. Each decision you make has ripple effect consequences. Within the first 
 hour you have probably made a decision which will decide the fate of a city and close some quests 
 off to yourself, while opening others. I personally like games where all quests are available in 
 one playthru as I like having one character, but I am willing to let it slide here due to the impressive 
 amount of detail that has gone into not only crafting the main quest, but the epic and normal side 
 quests.
  
  A. I./Game Mechanics: 9.5 Here is where it slips up just a bit. Bethesda did not take the time to 
 fix ALL of the problems with the Oblivion inventory system, like separating equipped items from 
 unequipped ones. However they did provide a key ring to hold all of your keys instead of scrolling 
 through them all. There is still alot of menu driven content to work through in the Pipboy, but 
 the way the menus and options are all integrated into a device that appears on your person makes 
 it feel far more real. The A. I. is good for the most part, except that some enemies (mutants are 
 stupid after all) will chase after you oblivious to traps that they made, that you have now reset 
 to spring on them. The new targeting system is very well done, and its use is integral to success 
 in the game. No more manually aiming projectile weapons in first person view when you want to play 
 in 3rd. 
  
  Value for the Money: 10. There is a world pretty much the size and scale of Oblivion to explore 
 here and the environment is very well done. I would figure that you could spend hundreds of hours 
 on one character and not do everything here.
  
  Bethesda isn't stupid. oblivion has done very well and they have built upon that solid foundation 
 successfully here. If you liked Oblivion, you will LOVE this game. if you like Post-Apoc, you will 
 LOVE this game. If you were looking for a Fallout 3 that feels like Fallout 2, prepare to adapt 
 to the future. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mikeamcewen
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 30, 2008 9:02 am PT
Review:  Very fun game. The Wastelnad design is awesome. The Game leaves it up to you to figure a lot of 
 things out on your own such as your abilities and combat functions. Targeting feature is really 
 cool and easy to use. Watching a head explode with the eyes popping out is a sight to behold. There 
 are many attributes to consider when leveling up. Once you have the controls down you will enjoy 
 playing a lot more. It is a massive world full of mutants, raiders, dogs, bloatflies, and mole 
 rats and they all want a piece of you. Take advantage of the diversified arsenal that includes 
 missle launchers, a variety of pistols, assault rifles, shotguns, frag grenades, hunting rifles, 
 and railguns to name a few. Some weapons are left to you to create once you have the knowledge 
 and the neccessary parts. Grab this game and enjoy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Phoenix73nj
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 30, 2008 8:47 am PT
Review:  Oblivion, Fallout, guns... if it stopped there it'd be my dream come true. However, it's been a 
 long, long time since I've felt the true HARDCORE nature of OLDSCHOOL RPG gaming. Back when men 
 were men and death was permanent, games were dicey affairs where a characters survival wasn't a 
 birthright, nor completion of a quest a given. Fallout 3 resurrects a similar level of intensity 
 in its immersion, while not being so harsh as to alienate the modern gamer. The best part of FO3 
 is that leveling up and spamming specials, getting uber gear etc... isn't the answer to all your 
 characters issues. Most times a creative solution is just as effective no matter what your combat 
 stats. ;)
  
  Those that can think creatively, coble together a mystery from clues and solve a puzzle with pen 
 and paper, will see a deeper story written into the crumbling concrete of FO3's waste land. This 
 game IS NOT ALL TOLD BY COMPLETION OF the next kill quest and survival to the next quest marker. 
 Those with patience and curiosity are richly rewarded in FO3. 
  
  Additionally, the VAT's system seamlessly integrates a turn-based flavor to FPS combat. BRILLIANT. 
 It's honestly, what holds the combat together, and a welcome addition for someone that appreciates 
 both FPS and Turn based gaming. Sadly, younger gamers will see VAT's as a crutch or a clunky add 
 on because the games FPS system "can't cut it" (gun accuracy is modified by your skill level, therefore 
 even FPS godz will miss) . The truth is your character has lived in a VAULT they're entire life, 
 safe, sanitized, and comfortable, they are no John Rambo... Their pipboy is the only advantage 
 they have, of course they would use it's auto targeting feature... wouldn't you... that being said 
 the VAT's system is hands down one of the most enjoyable combat systems I've had the pleasure to 
 play with in quite a while.
  
  Too much criticism is bandied about at games these days because they are different than game "X" 
 (usually Wow) .
  Too much criticism is heaped on games that don't immediately satisfy some bratty notion of immediacy. 
 Our society is rotting from this fast food culture and sadly it is even seeping into the last great 
 bastion of nerd sanctuaries, the video game. It's a shame that more folks can't enjoy diversity, 
 art, and slow cooked flavor. Personally, I thrive off it. FO3 delivers.
  
  However, it requires an open creative and mature mind.
  ADD kiddies need not apply... Try Fable 
 2 it's awesome in it's own right and it's got training wheels.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: moo223
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 30, 2008 3:25 am PT
Review:  So i have been waiting for this game to come for a long time. I have to admit when i heard Bethesda 
 was making it i was a little hesitant at the idea. considering they don't have experiene of making 
 a first-person shooter. but oblivion was awesome so I gave them the benefit of the doubt. Boy was 
 i wrong, they blew this game out of the water. the graphics are absolutely amazing and the amount 
 of detail that they put into the game is astounding. I actually felt like i was in a war torn D. C.. 
 The game just sucks you into the story and the enviroment. The vass amounts of munitions and ability 
 to "create" your own weapons is awesome, fitting right into the survival apect of the game. Creating 
 something that is nothing but garbage until you put it together to make it a weapon of destruction. 
 The voice acting in the game is also very well done. Liam Neeson (Dad) was very well done and Malcolm 
 McDowell ( President Eden) really poured his experience into the role. The vast amounts of ways 
 to kill is crazy thanks to V. A. T. S. the targeting system allows you to choose where on the body 
 to wish to target making for a clean head or leg shots. leaving you with a bloddy mess of brain 
 matter and eye balls splattered everywhere. So finally i just have to say this game is a fantastic 
 RPG/shooter game and a must have for any serious gamer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Motza22
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 29, 2008 9:22 pm PT
Review:  Much like Oblivion, this games feels so intense right off the bat; you're forced to make choices 
 that will be the foundation of your gameplay before you are even introduced to any of the concepts. 
 You're are asked to assign attributes and bonuses to your stats when you have absolutely no idea 
 of the usefulness or effectiveness of any of them.
  
  If you can look past that, you're left with, simply, another mediocre game with shiny graphics. 
 The map is vast but empty; sure there's the occasional random mob that you'll encounter along your 
 travels, but other than that you'll just be faced with a disturbing feeling of loneliness. And 
 the fact that the entire game is set in a post-apocalyptic wasteland, with a consistent brown and 
 sandy feel, doesn't help at all.
  
  One of the key features of this game is that it's so immersive; while this is definitely a possibility, 
 the characters and conversations all feel dry and boring. While manipulating people's opinion of 
 you and using persuasion to get what you want can be fun, it gets very dull after a while.
  
  To me, it isn't surprising that this game receives such high scores; it really feels like a 
 more high tech version of D&D. I suppose that's exactly what the people who consider themselves 
 "hardcore gamers" want. But for those of you, like me, who just like to play games solely for fun, 
 then this game isn't for you.
  
  It feels exactly like a copy and paste of Oblivion. While it receives good scores from the gaming 
 community, it brings absolutely nothing new to the table. Definitely worth renting, but don't waste 
 your money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tacohashi
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 29, 2008 9:06 pm PT
Review:  Many Fallout fans will likely be annoyed at the score I have given, so let me start out by saying 
 the only other Fallout game I have ever played aside from this is Brotherhood of Steel. 
  
  Still reading? Good, glad that didn't discourage you from hearing me out.
  
  
  So what is 
 there to like in this game? A lot, for one the beginning is so perfectly put together, where you 
 go from being born, to a year old, to ten, to sixteen, and finally nineteen.
  
  The whole story and tone of the game sets together very well here, and a good establishment of 
 the characters is made.
  
  Now obviously, this whole simple tone must be broken sometime right? Your dad has now left the 
 vault and is considered a traitor, I will not spoil anything more here, so lets just say you leave 
 the vault as well.
  
  With a sudden flash of bright white light you can now see the world for what it truly looks like, 
 I remember how amazing this looked the first time around in HD, truly spectacular, for the first 
 time ever in a game, I actually FELT like I was there. You make your way down the cliff side, you 
 pass a bombed out town, and walk through small radiated puddles riddled with garbage. This place 
 truly looks like a bomb had hit.
  
  Soon after, you make your way to Megaton, your first livable town! There is just one problem, it 
 has an undetonated nuke in the center! 
  
  You are greeted by a gruff man wearing a cowboy hat, who claims to be the "sheriff" of the fair 
 town. He also reacts to your current charisma and your nature, whether it be good, evil, or neutral. 
 This is one of the first real encounters where you notice what you are doing has a reaction, and 
 its a welcome change to the standard games of constant repetitiveness.
  
  Now, your whole "mission" is to go find your father, so you start in the tavern, where you are 
 approached by a Mr. Burk who has a proposition for you. He wanted to find someone that does not 
 belong to the town (and therefore has no sympathy for the townsfolk) to arm the bomb and detonate 
 it, he is also willing to pay quite a fair amount. You could arm the bomb, you could refuse, you 
 could KILL this Mr. Burk and end it right there. Hell you can even take his clothes from his bullet 
 ridden corpse and look like a classy businessman, should you decide to kill him. Now this is quite 
 arguably the BEST beginning to a game, it throws you right into the action with a devastating choice 
 that will have major consequences no matter what you do.
  
  Now I will not spoil anything further in the story, I simply wanted to create a synopsis of what 
 I believe made this a great game right from the get-go.
  
  
  Now we can dive right into the core gameplay, and ignore all story from here.
  
  Some consider 
 this game an FPS, others an RPG, and most consider it both. Now depending on what you want out 
 of this game, you will have a different reaction, those who want a full out FPS that rivals COD 
 and Halo will be disappointed. However, those that want a little of both will get what they want 
 out of it. So I suggest before you play this game, you look for and expect nothing more than a 
 game that does two things well but does not revolutionize either genre.
  
  
  So lets start with the fighting mechanics, not just shooting, but CQC as well.
  
  Now the first 
 most noticeable thing about the shooting mechanics is that your reticule is the EXACT same size 
 for every firearm, now this will likely be a problem for most FPS players out there because it 
 is odd to see the same radius for a shotgun as there is for a pistol, this does not however change 
 the path of your shots. However it is distracting nonetheless.
  
  The V. A. T. S system is implemented very well here. It allows you to pinpoint any enemy within your 
 sights, and which body part to hit, however range and position is a factor, and each has is own 
 percentage to hit. Will you shoot the weapon out of your enemy's hand? or simply go for a headshot?
 
  
  The cripple system is very innovative and unique, as each body part has its own effect. Headshots 
 for disorientation, leg shots for movement etc. This system is applied not only to your enemies, 
 but you as well. And it is great fun to shoot someone in slow motion and see their head explode. 
 
  
  Melee weapons operate as a simple "right trigger to hit" and "left trigger to block" system, which 
 works just fine, but does not invoke a lot of crazy melee fights like Condemned 2 did.
  
  The weapon set is great, ranging from simple weapons like pistols and shotguns to a mini nuke launcher 
 and even a rail road spike gun, which is almost to much fun for its own good.
  
  Radiation effects you negatively and is acquired by eating contaminated food or drinking the water, 
 however it is a negligible problem, and is basically ignored, it was a nice thought, but it isn't 
 as deadly as I would have expected.
  
  There is also lockpicking, hacking, pickpocketing and all that good stuff, this doesn't really 
 need an explanation does it?
  
  Your weapons also degenerate as you use them, and must be repaired or they will operate worse and 
 worse until finally breaking.
  
  The running in this game is somewhat slow considering the size of the world, and in some cases 
 can get boring depending on where you are headed, fortunately, your Pip Boy has a feature that 
 allows you to instantly teleport to any place previously visited, which lightens the annoyance 
 factor.
  
  Now my biggest problem, although the world looks great, the city related areas are where it becomes 
 a chore to find where you are going, and how to get there. Why? because many areas are blocked 
 by debris and you will find yourself running back and forth, all around, going underground through 
 tunnels and still not getting it. This is where the game becomes a chore, if they had instead riddled 
 the blocked off areas with enemies instead of rocks and garbage to keep you out, this would not 
 be a problem, and much more direct and straight to the point, which is important sometimes, regardless 
 of the complicated game.
  
  Another issue is eventually, I really stopped caring about finding my dad, and side quests became 
 a bit more mundane and typical, there are many fun and unique enemies, but fighting nothing but 
 raiders and super mutants over and over gets a old. It should be noted however that I have yet 
 to be bored of the slow motion V. A. T. S kills, so something could be said for that.
  
  Another addition is NPC allies, and they follow the same tone the rest of the game does: "If you 
 die, your dead, PERIOD."
  
  Now although this makes sense, it is really annoying to make it so far into a group of enemies 
 only to have your beloved dog run out and attack a super mutant with a minigun, and get killed. 
 I personally found myself getting attached to my buddy "Dogmeat" and restarting my save whenever 
 he died. The Fable 2 dog would have worked much better here, even if your other NPC helpers could 
 die.
  
  Overall:
  
  So aside from a few mundane tasks and hard to navigate cities, there really is nothing to complain 
 about, its a damn good game, and although disappointing in some aspects, still worthy of a buy. 
 
  
  I would normally deduct one point for the annoying factors in the game, and leave this as a nine, 
 but because this was over hyped, I am afraid I must make this an 8/10
  
  -1 for annoying factors that didn't need to be added
  -1 for Pretentiousness 
  
  8/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darknyarth
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 29, 2008 3:16 pm PT
Review:  This is the Fallout game you've been waiting for.
  
  Want the majesty and all the atmosphere of the first two games? You'll find them here in technicolor 
 waiting to hop over some busted up rebar to bite you in the ass. This is gaming creation at its 
 finest. Bethesda has come a long way since their bug ladden days of Daggerfall to present a compelling, 
 immersive and truly amazing role playing adventure. Welcome to RPG 2008!
  
  This dark universe was so desperately in need of a new game and here we have it. Fallout fans get 
 everything they need with no skimping. Ron Pearlman as the narrator, the PipBoy, Dog Meat, vaults... 
 all in stunning 3D. It's like what we were all hoping for back when we played the originals only 
 to find that they actually waited around long enough to pull it off!
  
  You can find many reviews that will detail out gameplay and specifics but I'll be a bit more general. 
 The controls are intuitive and simple, the world is immersive, the weapons feel right and the VATS 
 system that I heard people grumble with a leery noise about is really nicely accomplished. If you've 
 watched the movies and haven't bought Fallout 3 yet, it's because you aren't a fan. Well, let me 
 tell you: even if you have never played one of these before or even know what the hell the setting 
 is, I swear, you will love this game.
  
  True to Bethesda, they bring a cinematic, open ended experience to the table. I spoke with a friend 
 who went right instead of left out of the Vault at the beginning. His experience has been totally 
 different than mine. It's crazy. Just like Oblivion, you can do what you want but then we have 
 the benefit of a real conversation system! 
  
  Let me not ramble too much because let me tell you, I could... but this game should be recommended 
 to anyone with a TV. This is one of the best games I've played in years. Buy it now. You won't 
 regret it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CronoJKL
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 29, 2008 2:17 pm PT
Review:  So, I rented Fallout the day it came out, played it for a while, and I have to say, it's a great 
 game. The story is brilliant, the graphics phenomenal. However, the only real negative thing I 
 have to say about the game is the reversed movement and viewing controls. You look around with 
 the left stick and move with the right. Maybe I can change it and I'm just looking in the wrong 
 place to change the controls, but really that's my only problem with the game.
  
  However, everything else is great, the original enemies, you're ability to really be good or bad, 
 and having such an influence on the world around you. It's not fable where you can be pure evil 
 and still be able to marry that sweet little girl back at Bowerstone. No, you can do whatever you 
 want, feel like being a raider? By all means. Want to be a slaver, go for it. Want to hunt down 
 all evil doers and help a child save his family? Go for it.
  
  The game really sucks you in. There's always something new to do. And the combat is nothing like 
 anything I've seen before. I mean, you kill your foe, then you can continue to dice him up? Brutal! 
 Unthinkable! Frickin' sweet.
  
  Well, in my opinion, go out, buy it, rent it... But get ready to be all messed up when you try 
 and play Call of Duty again, what with the messed controls. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rupes1986
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 29, 2008 1:49 pm PT
Review:  I'm gonna just sum it up for the review, but I'll post a full-on blog of my adventures for those 
 who actually read them.
  
  Graphics - Compared to the Elder Scrolls games, it's a HUGE improvement. I'm not dogging Morrowind 
 (though dated even for its time) or Oblivion (a great leap forward from Morrowind) , but the artistic 
 elements in this are outstanding. The first time you step out of the Vault and into the Wasteland 
 to take in the scenery is nothing short of breathtaking. From the splatter of every Super Mutant 
 skull, all the way to the grass swaying in the breeze, it's beautiful.
  
  Gameplay - I know a lot of fanboys are pissed off about the real-time combat, but it's awesome. 
 It breathes life into a tired format (sorry, but it's true. Turn-based reached its apex long ago) . 
 The V. A. T. S. is wonderful, the first time I "asploded" a head, I literally yelled, "Holy *expletive 
 censored*, yeah!"
  
  Sound - Solid as it comes. The whistle of the breeze, the groaning of the ghouls coming up on you, 
 the hiss of the pipes, and the radio is great. Unlike Oblivion, there's a cavalcade of voice actors, 
 so there's very little chance for repetition. Liam Neeson was an outstanding choice as Dad, and 
 I'm hooked on every word he speaks. The '50s-era music sets the tone, and walking through D. C. 
 at midnight and hearing the crackly song echoing about the place is very unsettling to say the 
 least.
  
  Overall, I've been a hardcore Fallout fan for a long time, and this game was very, very, very much 
 worth the wait. Amid the dark satire and humor, the amazing quality, and ravishing gameplay, we've 
 got a surefire game of the year.
  
  One final thing; if you were born post 1996-on, do NOT talk about this game as "Oblivion with guns", 
 go play the original Fallout (free now on GameTap) and Fallout 2. You'll see why it's not Oblivion 
 with guns. And to you fanboys who are hating already, play it and if you can find a problem with 
 having Fallout in three dimensions I'd like to know why.
  
  I'm Kyle Ruppel, and I give Fallout 3: 5 asploded Super Mutant heads out of 5. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: threeblackdudes
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 29, 2008 1:10 pm PT
Review:  Ive only played about 10 hours of this game but I have to say that Im really enjoying it.... the 
 story line is solid up to this point, the characters interesting and the combat is pretty damn 
 cool. You really feel like the choices you make will make a difference and it gets you thinking. 
 The graphics are cool and the entire atmosphere of the game reminds me of BioShock so if you enjoyed 
 that game and Oblivion you'll definately enjoy this...
  
  The sound in the game is another highlight, the voice acting is actually not bad unlike other games 
 and the addition of that "old time" radio is a welcomed one as well....
  
  I'm probably gonna end up playing this game for a few months sort of like Oblivion, I can already 
 tell that there's going to be much to do and alot of exploring. I'm looking forward to stepping 
 foot onto Washington DC and seeing how the wasteland looks....
  
  My only beef is that it's almost a little too much like oblivion as nice as it is, at times it 
 does feel like it's oblivion with guns... which isn't a bad thing... but you know what I mean... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aripatear
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 29, 2008 12:38 pm PT
Review:  After being let down by Mass Effect (in only beating it in 24 hours) , I've been waiting for an 
 rpg that I could play and be completely engrossed in that had substantial length. I bought Lost 
 Odyssesy and while it had the length, it lacked substance and was often repetitious. Fallout 3 
 (as far as I've played) lets you do what Oblivion does, but without the (in my opinion) horrible 
 combat system. I think that being able to stop time in order to pick your shots is amazing. This 
 was the one aspect of the game that I thought I wasn't going to like, but I was wrong. Even though 
 I didn't like Oblivion (I know, I'm sorry) , this game is definitely worth checking into if you're 
 not into the online fps or even if you are into the online fps type of game! I'm mostly an online 
 fps kind of guy, but I'm been in an rpg mode as of late and this game definitely delivers what 
 I've been looking for in an rpg. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Trav3577
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 29, 2008 11:54 am PT
Review:  I will get this out of the way: I owned Oblivion. Great RPG, but I really didn't care for the story 
 and I eventually stopped playing it. The only thing that kept me playing was leveling up my character.
 
  
  Fallout 3 IS the RPG I have been waiting for! I love the way it starts out and the story has me 
 drawn in like no other. The wastelands really makes you feel like you are in a post-apocalyptic 
 world. I have never played an RPG so immersive since KOTOR (which is still considered one of the 
 best RPG's of all time) . 
  
  I love the VATS system, and it does not take long before you are thrust into many game-changing 
 decisions that will affect your overall Karma. I find it hard to be completely good or evil. I 
 am somewhat nuetral 10+ hours into the game, and I am just amazed at the detail to attention throughout 
 the graphics. 
  
  Yes, the character animations are old and played, and the emotions of the faces of the NPC's are 
 no Mass Effect quality, by the dialogue makes up for this shortcoming. 
  
  I have not thought about a game this much since Gears of War first came out. All I want to do is 
 get home and play some more. This is the game to have in your library, as I already want to start 
 over to pick different attributes and perks. It really gets no better than this, and I am a picky 
 gamer at times. 
  
  Strap yourselves in for this one, you are in for one helluva ride! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pro_96
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 29, 2008 11:18 am PT
Review:  A successful breeding of two exceptional games. This game carries with it both the bad (an occasional 
 bug) and the great of the greatness of the two. 
  
  Picture the bottom two games as a wild stallion and mare (sex interchangable) that decided to breed 
 in the moonlight. NEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEAAAAH!
  
  "Fallout is one of the best role-playing games to be released in several years." 1997 Fallot 1 
 Gamespot Review.
  
  "The core elements of 1997's best role-playing game are intact and, in several ways, have been 
 improved." 1998 Fallout 2 Gamespot
  
  "The Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion is simply one of the best role-playing games ever made." Gamespot 
 2006
  
  "It's a beautiful, sprawling, and open-ended game that lets you play pretty much however you like" 
 The Elder Scrolls III: Morrowind Gamespot 2002 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tbonezzzz
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 29, 2008 9:40 am PT
Review:  I think the thing I am most impressed by is the a real system for player consequences as NPC's 
 react to what you have done. The first time it really happened to me, I think I said, oh sh*t. 
 Games that claim the consequence system create a statistic, but many times fall short on actually 
 having NPC's respond to multiple outcomes. 
  
  I have played Fallout 1 & 2. Liked them both. In comparison to the prequiles there was one thing 
 that I noticed, but it may just be that I havent played it long enough. In 1 I would come around 
 a corner or aproach someone & then all of a sudden they are attacking me & they are atleast twice 
 as strong as me. I run for my life but die. Leaving a taste in my mouth that this is a dangerous 
 place & I need to be careful. So far I havent run into anyone that tough, yet, or run into any 
 stimpack shortages. But I may not have played it long enough. But if you do go prancing around 
 not paying atention you may catch a sniper bullet, or have some rad dog chewing on your leg. That 
 is it. I love this game. 
  
  This should be the standard for the genre. Bethesda sets the bar.
  
  Im currently whistling 
 the theme song at work. I dont want to set the world on fire......... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Analog_Death
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 2, 2008 6:43 pm PT
Review:  Don't get me wrong, I loved elders scrolls oblivion IV. It was the first next gen game I ever owned, 
 and I ended up putting about 150 hours into my character. By the hundredth hour, however, several 
 flaws began gnawing at me. Listening to the same voice actor have the same riveting conversation 
 about mudcrabs, the level scaling which basically allowed you to go anywhere at anytime draining 
 the game of tension or a reason to level up, and the environments and quests begin to look cut 
 and paste due to repetition. All the elements of oblivion I loved made it into fallout 3, and everything 
 I hated was trimmed out. There's no ridiculous level scaling, ensuring that if you set your sights 
 on the capital and make a beeline at level 3, your ass will be handed to you and if you want to 
 level up a specific skill you are not forced to perform that skill repeatedly. F3 is basically 
 my ES4. I've always preferred dys-topic fiction over fantasy, so this is truly a world that I can 
 get lost in. The environments are gorgeous, very detailed, and literally dripping with atmosphere. 
 Bethesdas character animations are beginning to look a bit dated, but its not much more than a 
 minor nuisance as the content and gameplay are so incredibly deep. This is definitely my game of 
 the year. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: molitorious
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 29, 2008 7:35 am PT
Review:  Players who loved Oblivion will love Fallout 3.
  Having not played Fallout I and II (yet) .. it is hard to say what die hard Fallout fans will think 
 of the game. 
  
  The game is great to explore and problem solve in a variety of ways. There is no "right" or "wrong" 
 choice. But like all choices, they have consequences. 
  
  I am sure I will be playing this game for months to come.
  I feel like I am barely scratching 
 the surface of what the game has to offer.
  
  This game won't be for everyone, but I recommend giving it a shot.
  
  Visuals: A- (nice, but 
 a little too gritty and monochromatic)
  
  Audio: A+ (great subtle environment and radio stations set the tone)
  
  Presentation: A- (good 
 but its not always obvious of your next course of action)
  
  Game play: A (solid engine.. targeting system is good.. fun to explore the land)
  
  Replay Value: 
 A- (fun to see how different choices affect the game and to solve problems in other ways.. be it 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: yourule41
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 29, 2008 5:46 am PT
Review:  First, I will start with the sound: The sound in the game is amazing and the voice acting is great. Their 
 mouths open at the right time and helps you feel like you are really there. Graphics: This game has 
 probably the best graphics out there now. Gameplay: The gameplay is absolutely amazing. There are 
 not many games like it. You can use the V. A. T. S system to kill your enemies and select a body part 
 you choose to shoot. You can pop of their arms or legs and they will sometimes try to crawl away. Then, 
 you can pop off their head. It's so bloody and fun. It is very addicting. The story in it is great. There 
 are not many games like it.
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  Everyone is trying to survive in this harsh world. You can go around and just pop everyone's head 
 off for the fun of it. Even though that may be very fun, that's not the whole game. The quests help 
 you feel very involved in it. The world is absolutely gigantic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: demosnipe1589
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 28, 2008 11:13 pm PT
Review:  This games' storyline easily rivals the best out there. Bethesda nailed this on the head in every 
 aspect; the musical score is spot on, the scenery is spot on, the fashion is spot on. The list 
 goes on and on. Do not get this confused with Bethesda's other RPG series, The Elder Scroles, because 
 they are different games. If you want a new oblivion... this isn't it, instead it is a beautiful 
 work of art on its own. At first I was finding myself frustrated because I wanted this game to 
 be more like oblivion, but as the story and game progressed i found myself appreciating it for 
 the game that it is. Must Buy, I am looking fore ward to the sequels and the, hopefully soon to 
 be released, downloadable content. This is the most immersive game to date, that i have been fortunate 
 enough to get my hands on and play. Buy it already!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darth_Brahma
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 28, 2008 9:52 pm PT
Review:  Alright people, I came home just right now and checked my GameSpot account only to find that a 
 lot of people e-mailed me hate mails because of a review I supposedly wrote about Fallout 3. I 
 apologize to everyone and I'll never leave my account logged on while I'm away from my computer 
 ever again. Thanks roommate for ruining my rep on GameSpot. Anyways, this is a review about the 
 game...
  
  Fallout 3. Game of the year? I don't know yet, but it's swaying in that position. I agree, it will 
 be. Will it beat a lot of games out there? Hell yes it will. Game play is awesome, graphics are 
 awesome, everything an RPG should be. By the way dumb ass, it isn't an FPS. Thanks everyone for 
 pointing that out. This is the best game in the series and it clearly deserves a 10 out of 10, 
 not no 9 or 9.5. A 10 dammit! It'll get that way sooner or later. For you newbies out there who 
 are just tuning in on the gaming world, Fallout 3 is for you. It's a good game for both teens and 
 adults and I highly recommend it for anyone who loves playing RPG's Action/Adventure and a little 
 shooting. It's quite different from most, but it's surprisingly great!
  
  To everyone else, I apologize once again for the stupid review and thanks GameSpot for taking it 
 out from the review board. Fallout 3 doesn't deserve that. Not 1 for abysmal, but #1 in gaming 
 right now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lennex
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 28, 2008 9:29 pm PT
Review:  YES!
  
  This game will easily be the best game for the Xbox360 this year... or at least the best game that 
 I've played this year (so far... still 3 titles on my list, but I don't think they will stack up!)
 
  
  First off, how the game gets you to build your character and setup the plot of the game is brilliant. 
 Just how they introduce your character was incredible, unique, and just so much more fun than a 
 character creation screen of old. It has to be done right if other developers copy it though, so 
 hopefuly it won't get destroyed by others.
  
  At first as your going through the setup the graphics are pretty ho-hum, voice acting is decent, 
 but other than Liam Nielson's character the others so far have been pretty one dimensional. The 
 sounds themselves though are pretty cool. As is the ability to wander around with this retro radio 
 playing. Nice little treat that is!
  
  But once you step outside the vault... wow. The post-nuclear wasteland is just breathtaking. The 
 graphics are UNREAL! I just paused and watched the scenery go by in all of its great detail.
  
  Game mechanics are pretty cool. Sure the isometric view of RPG's of old is gone, which is disapointing... 
 but the VATS system is a great way to engage in combat. The only thing I wish though was that it 
 was less full blown FPS, and done more like KOTOR or Mass Effect for combat systems. 
  
  The thing that really impressed me was how much events had an effect on each other. For fun I decided 
 to kill the bar owner in Megaton. Yea... big mistake, everyone starts chasing you down and it's 
 pretty hard to escape. 
  
  I have a feeling this is a game I won't be able to put down and will actually want to do all the 
 side quests possible!
  
  A must have! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NOS_MONSTER_666
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 28, 2008 6:25 pm PT
Review:  OMG OMG OMG. Fallot 3 is here boys and girls. And it has some Game Of The Year potential. Yes, 
 that's right GOTY potential. I wasn't really thinking of buying this game, untill Friday. I started 
 seeing videos and the OXM review i then i said to myself "This game is going to be uber good!". 
 Turns out this game is more then uber good. It's actually OMEGA UBER good. The sound in the game 
 is amazing when a nuke goes off. The graphics are georgeous. The gameplay is BLOODY and fun as 
 hell and you wont have a hard time shooting or hitting your enimies with V. A. T. S. Witch is what 
 you use to target different body parts. And like Oblivion you can roam Washington D. C. s wasteland 
 doing whatever you want. You can kill travelers, steal from them, or just let them pass. It's up 
 to you in Fallout 3. You can be good, bad, or neutral. Whatever floats your boat!
  So Fallout 3 is a must buy game for the Xbox 360. Simple as that. You won't forget this game for 
 years and years to come! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rainbowsix777
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 28, 2008 6:10 pm PT
Review:  I have always loved oblivion, and always will. Bethesda made the mistake of trying to make Fallout 
 3 become the next Oblivion, while only TES5 can really be that. I feel like Fallout is much more 
 linear than the TES series, as it seems much more centered around the main quest, which I don't 
 like. I have no clue where to go to find quests, and the general environment really disappoints 
 me. I just didn't get that classic feeling that I had when I walked out of the Oblivion sewers 
 after leaving the vault. The weapons aren't even nearly as fun as the spells and swords of Oblivion; 
 there don't seem to be many, and apart from the mini-nuke they seem pretty generic compared to 
 other games. Now I know this is an RPG not a shooter, but I was looking for more customization 
 for just that reason. It says the year is 2077, but I feel like I'm using guns straight from the 
 40's. Not to mention, the game seems to be extremely hard. They thrust me out into the first dungeon 
 with five pistol shots on a pistol that can only shoot three more before it breaks, no money, and 
 a baseball bat. Not to mention that I get killed in 3 shots anyway. I think I'm going to finish 
 up Fable then go to Oblivion again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TalSet_11
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 28, 2008 4:54 pm PT
Review:  I got fable and Fallout on the day they came out. Fable wasn't all i thought it would be, but Fallout 
 is a masterpiece (not to say that i hate fable) . 
  
  i hadn't paid this game any attention (i thought it was another first person shooter) until my 
 friend asked me a simple question. he asked, "yo, you like oblivion and morrowind, right?" i told 
 him "who the hell do you think you're talking to? i've spent over a thousand hours playing morrowind 
 (much to my dismay) ." he has a cracked xbox and has been playing fallout for the past two weeks. 
 he told me "how would you like to play oblivion in the future... with guns?" i told him "SIGN ME 
 UP!" he said "get fallout"
  
  
  i'm glad i took his advice
  
  fallout is awesome. It is with great regret that i say i have never played the other fallout games, 
 but i must say, this game is absolutely astounding in its presentation, combat, and depth. unlike 
 oblivion (this game runs on the same graphics engine, the "havok" engine, and is from the same 
 development team) Fallout 3 is deep, rich with fantastic dialogue, and the combat is fierce and 
 frenzied. 
  
  the visual presentation is top-notch. the rolling wasteland's beauty is something to behold. this 
 game is a testiment to Bethesda's commitment to providing a rich game world to explore. i've NEVER 
 seen anything like the wastelands of this game. it is meticulously detailed (keep in mind, i play 
 on a crappy non-HD tv, and it STILL looks amazing) and everything about this game looks amazing.
 
  
  the audio is also incredible. crickets chirp in the moonnlight. enemies and npc's talk to eachother 
 and carry on intricate conversations. the music is deep and provides a good amount of emotion to 
 the game. the gunshots and sound effects are of the highest caliber.
  
  the combat and gameplay are entertaining and fun (whether or not you use the turn-based or real-time 
 battle systems. i use both) the world is easy to interact with, and the mechanics are simple to 
 pick up (i still dont understand a few of the inventory mechanics, but over time, i'm sure you'll 
 get it.
  
  the game is hard, though. i've died more than a few times. it's difficult because enemy attacks 
 to a comparable amount of damage to your own. this game isn't for the casual fps fan (it is an 
 RPG, after all)
  
  overall, i give this game a 9.5. it's fantastic. i love it and don't think i'll EVER stop playing 
 (called in sick to keep playing) and i hope that everyone who has an itch for a new go at an open-ended 
 RPG gets a chance to experience this fantastic game for themselves. this game is a fully-realized 
 masterpiece, and i put my vote in for game of the year.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kevinataii
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 28, 2008 4:13 pm PT
Review:  I Have Played fallout 1,2, and tactics and this game is a first perosn 3D version of all three 
 of these games. For those first timers this is the most unquie RPG ever made, Period. You are free 
 do what you want to achieve your final out come, you can be BAD or you can be good or indifferent, 
 Murder Whole towns , slaughter children at will and yes eat them if your hungry. Of course for 
 every action theres a reaction, and this will make people agnry and not like or trust you, however 
 the villians will like you. But the best thing is you can be so BAD in this game evil Satan will 
 fear you.
  
  The VATS combat system is needed for EXPERT shooters and people looking to end a fight with a sinlge 
 blow, Luck, perception and small guns on high will achive defeats of even the most advanced enemies, 
 even when your a low level. The world is dangerouse and so must you be, we wary of this game it 
 may consume you and the next thing you know, you'll be eating rat pie. 10/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: berkyjay
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 28, 2008 4:00 pm PT
Review:  This game for me failed before it was released. Bethesda is a great game studio and I usually praise 
 any game that they produce. But their take on the Fallout franchise showed me that they are a one 
 trick pony. This isn't because they made a crappy game out of FO3. On the contrary, FO3 IMO is 
 a pretty darned good game with mechanics that stay true to the previous Fallouts. What let me down 
 however is the decision to turn this game into a FPS game. 
  
  This is not what Fallout is and during my first few hours with the game I kept wishing that they 
 had stuck with the isometric view. This isn't a total deal breaker for me because it is still a 
 rock solid game. I just wish Bethesda would have broken out of their FPS habit and brought us a 
 true Fallout 3 that played with an Isometric view. I feel that the Isometric view has been forgotten 
 by the game industry and Bethesda would have done us all a service if they had brought it back 
 with a modern look. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Acronomic
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 28, 2008 2:55 pm PT
Review:  Fallout 3 is a game I've been waiting a long time for, and I think it's safe to say that it was 
 worth the wait. 
  
  I can't say I'm a veteran of the series, since I only played Fallout 1 and 2 for a bit before giving 
 up. Luckily I've gained a bit of patience and a love for role playing games since then, and Fallout 
 3 is just right for me.
  
  I'm going to mention some of the shortcomings of this game, just to get it over with; animations 
 and characters seem lifeless, weapons are perhaps a bit unbalanced (with some weapons (pistols, 
 mainly) it takes multiple shots to a human enemy's head) , and the AI leaves a bit to be desired.
 
  
  Despite these faults, it is truly a great experience. While other games might be destroyed by such 
 shortcomings, Fallout 3 has so many and deep features that it makes up for it, by far. The combat 
 system is incredibly rewarding and fun, not to mention varied. The game gives you the choice to 
 use switchblades, pool cues, mines, grenades, swords, all kinds of conventional weapons, all kinds 
 of huge, unconventional weapons and even teddybears as means for destroying your enemies. The high-point 
 of combat in this game is, however, the VATS-system. It enables you to target any enemy and body 
 part in front of you, giving you the ability to unleash a massive amount of carnage with a lot 
 of control. Watch you character grit his or her teeth while pulling the trigger of a scoped .44 
 revolver, blowing some poor Raider's head off.
  
  There's more to Fallout 3 than gunplay, however. I've found myself scavenging ruins, raiding all 
 sorts of bandit-camps, doing several missions for some loon in order to compile a "wasteland survival-guide", 
 shopping for nice clothing, styling my character's hair, listening a radio station I "uncovered" 
 solely playing violin-music, and much, much more. I think I'm going to have a hard time getting 
 tired of this game, simply because there are so many fun and dynamic things to do.
  
  There are heaps of fun situations in Fallout, and a lot of it is because of very good level design. 
 Don't read too closely if you haven't played the game - a lot of these things are a lot of fun 
 to discover on your own. For example, I tried to sneak into a slaver's camp to release the slaves 
 and take whatever I could find. As I made my way inside, I came up on a shack the slavers used 
 as shelter. When I tried to sneak around to try and get an overlook of the camp, I suddenly heard 
 a thump by my feet. Turns out I'd tripped a wire, and three grenades had landed right next to me 
 - I froze for a second, and the blast sent my character flying, instantly killing her and knocking 
 her into a pile of rubble. In the middle of this camp was a huge cage built by various debris and 
 destroyed parts, housing a gigantic super mutant. I didn't catch on until I'd killed everyone in 
 the camp, but it turns out I was able to blow the generator powering the electrical fence keeping 
 it inside, unleashing it onto the camp. That's the kind of surprising and fun situations the game 
 places you in. :)
  
  Well, I think I've written enough for one sitting... but I can say that if you like TRULY open-ended 
 and varied games, Fallout 3 is highly recommended. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ace77765
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 28, 2008 2:39 pm PT
Review:  This game does not look like crap first off and I just wow... seeing how it looks and the setting 
 of it hits close I know many of you dont imagine things like this because people like to think 
 positive about situations at hand but many are seeing things just may not turn out so positive 
 this time. Seeing how these folks on here live after everyone goes crazy nuking people is just 
 damn kinda depressing to see it like that and everyone is back to the way things were in the old 
 old days (when our grandparents were kids) . How people had to rely on the good will of another 
 person and not laws for good things to happen. They mix it up a bit with this war and how people 
 regressed down to listening to music from the 50's with other concepts on that too. It's wild to 
 see because they actually build vaults and stuff in case things do happen or when they do happen 
 and it's interesting also to see how they dont leave and just spend the rest of their lives down 
 in a hole basically for safety reasons. Bethesda did a really good job with this game and what 
 I see is they put this title out there to get people of course to enjoy another one of their games 
 but also just think... in the era we live in today with conflicts the best selling games are? shooters? 
 Fallout is going to get a lot of attention for expanding on this idea of a global catastrophe. 
 Just hope it gets people to think more 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zgort
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 28, 2008 2:04 pm PT
Review:  that dude that gave it a 1 has issues... clearly didn't know what he was buying
  
  ANYWAY fallout is a great rpg. you definitely feel the survival factor as the game starts out, 
 and it still feels challenging as you progress. V. A. T. S. is so satisfying to use, and it offers 
 a welcome break in the constant shoot-age. The absolute best part of this game, though, is how 
 you can handle any situation in numerous ways. not just one, most times not just two... numerous. 
 oh yea, and you can be whatever kind of character you want to create. definitely adds replay value, 
 as you can be an all out big gun heavy armor dude, or a kamakazi explosives expert who charges 
 in sword in hand, or a stealthy .44 tote-in' lock pickin' kina dude. The possibilities are almost 
 endless. did i mention you can can be good, evil, or even SOME CRAZY COMBINATION OF THE TWO. CHYEA!!! 
 haha so you owe it to yourself to at least rent this game.
  
  great fun, totally worth the cash. and THAT.... is what's up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: charlie_killer
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 28, 2008 1:51 pm PT
Review:  Haters be damned, claiming the developers molesting and raping an undying PC game rpg classic made 
 by the no longer existing Black isle studios.
  
  10 years have pasted since players were wandering around in the capital wasteland blowing away 
 raiders and other mysterious creatures. While the series have been hiding in a shelter significantly 
 changes has been made. Not only getting developed by another group of Rpg legends that are behind 
 the masterpiece The Elder Scrolls Obilvion.
  
  So lets get one thing clear: Fallout 3 is not Oblivion with guns, while its coming in close this 
 game stretches far more and perfects everything that Oblivion missed out on.
  
  The year is 2277 its been 200 years since the nuclear war errupted and the majortity of american 
 citizens retreated underground in a fallout shelter.
  
  Picking up 30 years after Fallout 2, little things has been to setting. Laser weapons, raiders, 
 mutants are all here again.
  
  The game opens with your actual birth, thats right you get to witness your birth from a First Person 
 perspective and right of the bat you are forced to pick your sex/apperance and so on.
  
  Liam Nesson the guy who plays your father, guides you through a suprisngly cool tutorial where 
 you get very early quests like "Baby steps" where our father teaches you how to crawl and then 
 later walk.
  
  The game moves on about 9 years and at your 10th birthday where you get your Pipboy 3000, a wrist 
 mounted device where you can acess everything you need with a press of a button. Including Stats, items, world 
 map, radio stations, skills and more.
  
  moving on another 9 years and you wake up as a 19 year old kid only to find out that your father 
 has left the vault. With the overseer thinking you got something to do with this you have no choice 
 but to leave the vault. 
  
  The first steps out of the vault is breathtaking, and with Inon Zurs music kicking right in to 
 get the chills down your spine, you can tell its an atmoshperic game.
  
  The S. P. E. C. I. A. L system and how you level up is very similiar yet refined in Fallout 3.
  
 
   and luck) 
  
  lets you give out specific points that will effect your characther in how well he or she will be 
 when youre in combat, dialoge on going for the stealthy side.
  
  the skill system also lets you choose how you wanna play, If you wanna be a guy who talks more 
 than he fights you should spend points in Speech.
  
  Then theres also the perks. Perks are super powerful and super awesome special abillites you can 
 pick when you level up.
  
  Some will based on whenever you wanna be good or evil while others like "Bloody mess" which gives 
 the games already brutal gore a huge boost.
  
  Then theres Karma. The actions you do in the game will affect your karma that lets you become good, evil 
 or neutral and depending which way you choose to go, it will lead to a diffrent ending.
  
  All of the systems in the game are well executed and feels really nice. While the karma feels abit 
 unbalanced since being evil is more difficult then being a good guy.
  
  The combat system is undoubtley the true star here. If you want you can play the game like a straight 
 up shooter, but rpg fans and those who wants to be satisfyed at any time can use V. A. T. S (Vault-tech 
 assited targeting system)
  
  Vats lets you pause time and examine your combat situation. You can then play the combat with the 
 help of your Action points wich lets you pick any body part of your enemy and you then get to que 
 up these moves for example you might wanna spend a few action points trying to blow a guys arm 
 off.
  
  This system is completely based on your stats. So the game tells you the health of each body part 
 and your prencetage to hit them and even if you dont manage to kill them you will atleast cripple 
 that body part, which can be a benefit since crippling an enemy makes them lumber around and in 
 the head makes them disoriented for awhile.
  
  Its just awesome grabbing your sniper and see the camera fly with the bullet in slow-mo and seeing 
 the camera zoom in to the head and seeing your enemies body parts explode into a bloody pinata.
 
  
  The cinematic view its awesome and its more satisfying then ever seeing a guys arm fly away and 
 land hard on the ground with matrix style effects.
  
  Apart from combat, an RPG is nothing without solid quests and as you expected its all here.
  
 
  The quests variates everything from delevering messages, killing guys or even rig or disarm the 
 bomb in megaton that never went off.
  
  All these big dicisions will make the game react differently to you, like for example if you choose 
 to disarm the bomb in Megaton you get a house there and the people will worship you. However this 
 means that Mr Burke will send a hitman after you. But if you agree to help Mr Burke and choose 
 to destroy the town you get a suite in Tenpenny tower, but you get bounty hunters after you.
  
  The main complaint i have about the game is that the dialoge and the characters can feel kinda 
 stiff at times. While much better then those ber repetive charachters in Oblivion, some of the 
 voice actors arent all that good, and the models and animations of them can look rather ockward 
 at times.
  
  The rest of the graphical aspects are top notch. The world looks beutiful and the art design is 
 outstanding. Effects like rain and the gore aswell as the weather and the 24h day cycle are all 
 impressive touches.
  
  the sound design are great and the music form Inon Zur is outstansing, and of course you got the 
 Ink spots too with old classical 40s songs "I dont want to set the world on fire" (So ironic) 
 and "Maybe".
  
  Overall this game is absolutely the sequel we have been waiting for 10 years. 
  
  The charm 
 and humor, the combat, the stats and levleing systems, the questing and technical aspects are all 
 extremly well put to together to form the best RPG i have ever played, i might aswell add the fact 
 that it is probably the best game i have ever played in general. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dg3215
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 10, 2008 10:41 am PT
Review:  Darth_Brahma are your parents related? This games is not for kids at all. The VATS targeting that 
 you were complaining about does let you target the head over and over but it does not guarantee 
 a hit. Have you even played the game or are you some stupid fan boy just running your mouth about 
 something you know nothing about. Personally I think that this is a great game, I have not gone 
 to far in it yet but I already like it better than elder scrolls. One of the things I like about 
 this game where elder scrolls went wrong in my opinion was how your actions truly affect the way 
 you are treated by NPCs in the game. It does not allow you to be every ones hero which elder scrolls 
 did. If I can say that there is one must get game for any system (360 ps3 or pc) this is it. So 
 in short do not listen to Darth_Brahma's review as he knows/understands nothing about this game. 
 Oh and if you want to see a video review go to IGN. Gamespot what happened you use to have the 
 best video reviews now they are non existent or epic fails. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dsp_connell
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 28, 2008 11:25 am PT
Review:  This game has exactly what I was looking forward to from the next installment in Fallout. Still 
 Dark and Witty, this game brings all the core and classic elements back with some updated twists 
 (more weapons, headgear, wardrobe adding additional abilities, etc.) . If you were a fan of Oblivion, 
 this game is a MUST. I can't wait to play this game over and over tag different traits to be come 
 a smooth talking looker to an oafy brute. There is so much to explore and have already found some 
 elements of the past game included in this game, and I know there are so many more (Dogmeat and 
 Harold anyone??) 
  My only gripe about it is that the game will not be for everyone, specifically for those huge FPS 
 fans because of the VATS shooting style (it's nostalgia for me) and the amount of dialogue you 
 need through out the game. But if you enjoy the open endedness of other games (Fable and Oblivion 
 to name a couple) you will without a doubt fall in love with this game. 
  
  Enjoy - I know I am and will! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DominicanAG
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 28, 2008 9:35 am PT
Review:  If you're familiar with Bethesda work you'll know what yourself into when you get Fallout3. If 
 you've played the Elder's Scroll for the PS3 and the 360 last year you'll know exactly what I'm 
 talking about. This is Oblivion with guns and yes you will love this game as much as you did Oblivion.
 
  
  This time instead of you being a mid age character like in oblivion you're beginning the game from 
 the time you're born as an infant. As times go by you'll turn from infant to 10 yrs of age than 
 to 13 yrs of age and than 16. At 16 is when you're journey begins. You've been living with your 
 Dad all your life in a vault until you've realize your father has left the vault and you're curious 
 to know what happened. The people that kept you and your dad in the vault are known as the Overseers. 
 They've attempted to kill your dad for whatever reason and you as well. So you've no choice but 
 to escape from the vault and find out why your dad as left.
  
  The game is pretty good at tutoring you on how to use the controls. You'll have access to the Pip 
 boy once you turn 10. This is when you'll also find out how to use the V. A. T. S. system which pretty 
 cool to use. I'm hoping some RPG FPS shooters if there are others after fallout3 start to use. 
 V. A. T. S. let's you pause the action and lets you aim at different body parts on your enemy and 
 let's you take them down strategically. See the action afterwards never gets old. I love see the 
 blood and gore after you've done your action.
  
  The game looks amazing in First person but you'll also have the option to play it in third person 
 view as well. But I've tried playing it third person but I don't think the game looks as good as 
 it does in the first person view. This game is meant to be played in first person the graphics 
 are just amazing and the voice acting is just as good. The game play is just like it is in Elder's 
 scroll. Some of the things you do will affect the story elements of the game so choose wisely. 
 
  
  If you're a fan of Bethesda and Oblivion than you shouldn't even think twice about buying this 
 game. From the different story elements this looks like a game that has plenty of replay value 
 because of the different choices you make have affect on the storyline. This is a must buy for 
 any RPG fan!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Travelingpngwn
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 28, 2008 8:18 am PT
Review:  Fallout 3 sucks you in from the very beginning and makes you part of the game. it combines elements 
 from so many games that the list alone could go for pages. in the time i have played this game 
 i have seen things that have shocked me, amazed me and made me laugh in a way that made me happy 
 that i played this game. it takes all the parts of the fallout series that made it beloved and 
 combines Oblivion's open world dynamic with GTA IV type music and radio. the combat system is perfect 
 and the difficulty is just right on target to keep the game fun but challenging. this game is well 
 worth the cost and will remain perennial favorite. i have logged over 10 hours already and know 
 that there will be many more to come. fallout 3 is too good to make a Christmas present you should 
 give it now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Drealoth
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 28, 2008 7:59 am PT
Review:  Big companies like Ubisoft don't understand that video games have the potential to be art, and 
 so they focus on the technical aspect of games. Ubisoft's games tend to be beautiful and stable, 
 but ultimately bloodless. That said, I don't think any video game has the true lasting power of 
 art, some games are starting to flirt on that boundary. Fallout 3 is one of them. While Bethesda 
 is by no means small, they still manage to create a game that above all has heart to it. It's not 
 perfect - there are times that you'll get annoyed by the camera (to be fair, are there any games 
 where this isn't the case?) - times when you'll get annoyed by the technical mechanics of it, and 
 such. However, Bethesda has created a wonderful fantastical world, so that all of this can be overlooked 
 with no effort.
  
  To live up to the original Fallout games is no small task, Fallout 3 has done just that, and is 
 a worthy 3rd entry to the series. It's full of black humour and wit, and enough distorted 50's 
 style to make Bioshock jealous. I do recommend that you play the original games (or at the very 
 least Fallout 2) before this one, as a lot of what you see will make more sense to you. It's a 
 shame that they didn't package them with the PC version.
  
  In summation, technically the game is not perfect, but has no show-stopping bugs that I've encountered 
 so far. The story, the world and the immersion factor are all top notch. It is a very mature game, 
 and needs to be taken seriously (strange for something called a "game") enough that you can suspend 
 your disbelief to truly be enjoyed, and enjoy it you will. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Expansive
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 6, 2008 9:16 pm PT
Review:  Look im going to keep this short and blunt. This game is everything you would want in a new age 
 RPG. Not only that but the game is yet another great installment in the series. Each Fallout game 
 was refreshing and an adventure, but Bethesda not only were able to bring this to the Next Gen 
 Systems, but they revolutionized the future of gaming. I havnt played this game thoroughly but 
 i will tell you that with just the few hours of playing, it certainly will not dissapoint. Great 
 game and im happy for this purchase.
  
  Good Graphics, Great Sounds, and the controls takes time but is one of the best once you get accustomed 
 to it.
  
  And i just have to say that hopefully you dont have many friends because they wont be seeing you 
 for a while once you get this game. Its THAT addictive. Didnt think this game could live up to 
 the hype but it delivered an early christmas gift for all of us. Thanks Bethesda 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Valkarie3
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 26, 2008 11:52 pm PT
Review:  Hey, don't have long to write on this. Lost sleep last night playing this till 5am after the midnight 
 launch. :) If you enjoyed Oblivion there are alot of simularities. Thats to be expected with the 
 company that made it. But serprisingly it does very well for the fallout setting and I only hope 
 there is enough content to keep it a satisfying experience. Totally worth the wait and I look forward 
 to all the little things you can unlock and find. Such as finishing the servival guide, or getting 
 your first laser weapon. You still have an encumberence system like the previous ones to limit 
 what you can carry. And it still leaves you stealing everything not red to sell for afew caps to 
 buy your things. One thing I miss so far is the crass subculture humor the way the previous games 
 have hidden in text, but thats to be expected without the origional creators there to flavor it. 
 Even without the hidden meanings behind sayings, it certianly is a great game on its own so far. 
 Updates should follow after going through it. Happy hunting
  ** edit 11/27/08 ** 
  Well after playing this game like a fiend, I can say that its just as addictive as Oblivion was 
 once upon a time. :) I particularly enjoy using the VATs Targeting system to add a stragic edge 
 to my combat against multiple opponets. I have found some of the jokes to be cheeky, and the voiceovers 
 quite welcome. I wish the general NPC's you notice comment out of the blue don't reflect your faction 
 in a paricular location very much. If you know what that means anyway :) If your doing alot of 
 quests in an area like Megaton, you don't get alot of thanks for it. One thing I enjoy to see in 
 a faction based setting. I love how open the world is and you can play it like a FPS if you wanted 
 to, but the ammo limitations dont let you do that too much. I particuarly enjoy decking out my 
 house with all the nifty gear I salvage from various places, and repairing them to high value before 
 I sell them. You certianly can invest alot into your house and you get to make your character into 
 just about anyone type or two you want. Certianly worth replaying as a good character then as an 
 evil on your second run through. My advice, stay alert and keep an eye on Dogmeat. He's invaluable 
 in combat if used well. I look forward to adding more as I get closer to the end of the game, but 
 don't play through it too quickly. Alot of the story is short lived and playing around with the 
 extra quests and the like can be quite satisfying. Nothing like getting a flameing sword to catch 
 monsters on fire n. n 
  Happy hunting 
::::::

::::::
UserName: padawanjp
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 28, 2008 4:17 am PT
Review:  this is really a masterpiece - hands down! no other rpg or similar games comes close. i find it 
 better than oblivion, though oblivion was near perfect for me, I can't say it's literally oblivion 
 with guns - but they do have a lot of similarities. but still i find this better. what really dazzled 
 me is how the story evolves. i really got absorb to it and i feel like i am part of it now. the 
 graphics and sounds are really amazing. and the best part of it is the VATS. woohooo! i think the 
 person who thought of this is really a genius. it makes the combat system very appetizing. i love 
 fps games but this feature in combat is really something. its kinda like front mission and half 
 life rolled into one. but still its better than both. hehe.
  
  thank you bethesda softworks for making this wonderful game. 
  
  
  
  game on! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yahooforpoop
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 28, 2008 3:47 am PT
Review:  Even though ive only spent roughly three hours playing this game, this is simply AMAZING. Essentially 
 its Oblivion, yet way more in depth, humorous, and who doesn't like the post apocalypse genre? 
 I picked it up at midnight, and its 3:45, and im still playing. VATS is something you have to truly 
 experience for yourself, and it is awesome every single time you do it. It is not a cake walk game, 
 and that's what makes me not want to put it down. the shooting system is superb, and i was personally 
 expecting it to be a little weak, but it is definately on the spot. As stated before, I have only 
 played for roughly 3 hours so far, but i have been completely taken away into this wasteland. I've 
 been looking forward to this game since it was released, and it has not only not disappointed me, 
 it has completely shocked me on how dead on it is, how free of bugs and glitches it is, and how 
 simply stunning it looks. Simply put, get this game, no matter what it takes, and prepare to escape 
 from the vault! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Guitarfreak15
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 25, 2009 8:06 pm PT
Review:  Fallout 3 takes places in a post-apocalyptic wasteland of future Washington D. C. With such high 
 ratings and reviews with Bethesda's 'Oblivion', they really had to own up to a lot with this game. 
 And I can honestly they have.
  
  Without going into immense detail to avoid spoilers, the game's story line is indeed one of the 
 most unique I have ever experienced. You really feel as if you are your character. This game has 
 to offer the most in depth view on an RPG to date. Everything is interact-able making it feel as 
 if you actually are exploring a post-apocalyptic wasteland. Even the dialog has quite a few options 
 to choose from. You can toggle between third and first person view quite easily and you can even 
 alter the distance of the third person view to your liking. Again, EVERYTHING is interact-able 
 that you come into contact with thus giving you limitless possibilities on to dress your guy with 
 clothing, weapons, and stats. The game brings forth a whole new view on the RPG genre for they 
 have found a clever way to include the tons of fighting interactions thus making the game even 
 more real. You're one person in a big land fighting for your survival. In this land, law does not 
 exist thus allowing multiple clans of bandits to form. The story line is realistic and intriguing 
 creating hundreds of hours of gameplay. The amount of options to choose from is so vast it's pretty 
 much impossible to play the game just once through. The game is so in depth I spent a good 4 hours 
 in just one town. Again, there is no law in this land and EVERYONE is fighting for their own survival 
 either from each other, mutants, or radiation. But now I leave you with a summary of the good and 
 bad:
  
  Good: The story line is unique, real, and intriguing. Everything is interactable and in depth. 
 The graphics are amazing. The sound quality is quite alright but there are some minor sound annoyances. 
 Example: The gun shots don't really 'echo' through the terrain, in fact, they sound roughly the 
 same inside as they do out. The realism of the game is quite intense. The V. A. T. S system is amazing.
 
  
  Bad: Some minor realism issues such as having a gun battle with bandits in one room, then traveling 
 to the next room and more bandits are standing there as if nothing happened. This doesn't happen 
 to much for the alarm/sneak/detection system is fairly good. The animations are kind of jumpy and 
 stiff but good none-the-less. The up close detail of most everything isn't very good but the overall 
 detail of everything is astonishing. The bullet reception isn't very good. Seemingly half a clip 
 par bandit seems a bit ridiculous. 
  
  Going from a fantasy mid-evil genre, to a post-apocalyptic shooter, Bethesda has done quite well. 
 This has to be the best RPG out to this day and is a must have for any RPG/shooter lover thus giving 
 this a game a perfect
  
  10/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TIHanTime
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 28, 2008 12:53 am PT
Review:  Considering I knew how Oblivion played, I knew that Fallout 3 will use the same engine as Oblivion. 
 You will quickly see the similarities to Oblivion as you progress through the beginning in the 
 Vault related to character development.
  
  The combat is outstanding. Using VATS and shooting any limb you choose is just so much fun! I remember 
 shooting shooting two enemies' heads off one after the other. It was too wicked.
  
  Story line is just too good, it sucks you in, makes you feel like everything that happened, really 
 happened!
  
  Graphics are phenomenal. After you finally leave the Vault, you will know what I mean. The world 
 is big, REALLY big.
  
  Game runs extremely well on the 360, perfect frames and no hitches what so ever. I'm sure it will 
 the same on the PS3 and PC.
  
  GO BUY THIS GAME! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aleo125
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 28, 2008 12:37 am PT
Review:  This game made me **** my pants when i first popped it in. You don't know how excited I was to 
 finally play this.
  
  Just like many others, I have waited a VERY long time to play this game. As a fan of the first 
 two games in the Fallout series, and The Elder Scrolls, well, any game Bethesda throws at me, I 
 fell in love all over again as I had years ago. 
  
  This game was better than I had expected, and has topped the list on my favorite games. The game 
 put me in a complete shock in awe when i first exited that vault. The gameplay videos are nowhere 
 near as great and amazing as when you are actually sitting in that gaming seat!! I know for a fact, 
 that I'm calling in sick tomorrow just to play this game a little bit longer.
  
  I'm sure that this game will compete with a few others for GOTY, but who knows who will win! All 
 i know, is that Fallout 3 has locked in my vote with a definite YES!! 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
