-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Fantastic 4: Rise of the Silver Surfer
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/xbox360/action/fantastic4riseofsilversurfer/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Decent story until the end.
 Upgrade system is a good idea in theory.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Unbalanced characters ruin the upgrade system.
 Lame mission objectives, such as opening doors and turning on elevators.
 Button-mashing gameplay grows old quickly.
 Not much to look at.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jun 21, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 5
Critic Score: 4.9, 30 Review (s)
User Score: 5.0, 388 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: 2K Games
Developer: Visual Concepts
Genre: Action
Date: Jun 15, 2007
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
There's nothing fantastic about this movie tie-in. 

  It's no secret that games based on movies often get a bad rap. It's also no secret that games based 
 on movies that are based on comic book characters tend to be among the worst offenders when it 
 comes to portraying their source material. Fantastic Four: Rise of the Silver Surfer for the PlayStation 
 3 and Xbox 360 does little to buck that trend. There's nothing inherently broken with the game, 
 and until it fizzles out at the end the story's not bad, but the gameplay is so contrived and repetitive 
 that it's unlikely anyone will garner much enjoyment from the game.  

          Shockingly, Invisible Woman is both invisible and a woman. Talk amongst yourselves.    

  Fantastic Four loosely follows the plot of the movie, but it takes several liberties with the story. 
 As in the movie, Reed (Mr. Fantastic) and Sue (Invisible Woman) are all set to get married when 
 the Silver Surfer and Dr. Doom show up and complicate matters. Galactus, unlike in the movie, where 
 he plays an integral role, is mentioned in the game but never makes an appearance. This omission 
 means the whole plot falls apart at the end of the game, which is a shame because, until that point, 
 the story is pretty good.  

  FF: Rise of the Silver Surfer is a standard beat-'em-up. You can play alone and switch between 
 characters by pressing the D pad, or you and up to three friends can play together on a single 
 system. You'll play as Mr. Fantastic, Invisible Woman, The Thing, and Human Torch as they brawl 
 their way through the game's six levels, which will see you do battle in locations such as the 
 Skrull lair, outer space, New York City, and Shanghai. The locations may be exotic, but the mission 
 objectives certainly aren't. You'll spend most of your time activating doors so you can deactivate 
 lasers so you can activate an elevator so you can activate a door, which lets you do it all over 
 again. There are a few levels where you'll fly through barren caves and a repetitive subway system 
 with Human Torch. Simply put, these levels are awful -- though they're a tiny bit better when playing 
 with the Sixaxis' motion-sensing controls.  

  All the characters have basic strong and weak attacks, and if you mix up your attacks you can string 
 together combos. Of course, each person has special powers that you'll need to use from time to 
 time. Invisible Woman can turn invisible and use telekinesis; Mr. Fantastic can stretch and bend 
 to hit hard-to-reach switches; The Thing can lift heavy objects and damage bad guys by pounding 
 the ground; and Human Torch can toss fireballs and even fly. Unfortunately, the game does little 
 to take advantage of these superpowers. Human Torch can fly like a bird during cutscenes, but he's 
 limited to an altitude of about 15 feet when you're actually playing. The Thing can smash his way 
 through a few walls here and there, but most items in the game are impervious to his strength. 
 Mr. Fantastic is generally useful only for hitting switches that are high up, and Invisible Woman 
 is pretty worthless as well, able to go through only some lasers and not others.  

  Unbalanced characters negatively affect the game's upgrade system. By smashing certain objects 
 you can earn tokens, which can be used to upgrade the abilities of each character. However, you'll 
 quickly learn that The Thing's shockwave attack, where he pounds the ground and takes out all enemies 
 in the immediate vicinity, is the best way to make it through the game. Human Torch's ability to 
 throw fireballs also comes in handy, so you'll most likely power up those two characters and those 
 two specific abilities and do little with Mr. Fantastic and Invisible Woman. The game tries to 
 encourage you to balance out your characters by sending each person on a brief solo mission, but 
 as long as you've got their attack and defense leveled up a bit, each character should do fine 
 on its own.  

  Fantastic Four's visuals are just as bland as its gameplay. Most rooms and areas are barren and 
 look nearly identical to one another. This makes it hard to figure out where you're going and where 
 you've been -- a problem, given all the backtracking you'll be doing. The enemies you'll be fighting 
 look decent enough, but there's little variety to their looks, so you'll be fighting the same few 
 guys over and over again. The Fantastic Four don't look too hot themselves. It's not easy to make 
 Jessica Alba look unattractive, but Visual Concepts has done it. The camera frequently has problems 
 following the action and often ends up at the worst possible angle. When you're just running around 
 a room or fighting one or two foes the frame rate is fine, but as soon as you throw a bunch of 
 bad guys and a few lighting effects into the mix, it falls apart. All the characters are voiced 
 by sound-alikes who do a respectable job in spite of the amateurish script. The sound effects and 
 music aren't much to get excited about, either.  

          Want to lose three friends? Have them come over and play co-op.     

  While it may 
 often feel endless, Fantastic Four is a short game that can be beaten in around six hours. The 
 typical assortment of extra costumes, artwork, movie trailers, and the like can be unlocked by 
 finding tokens hidden in each level, but once you've finished there's little incentive to play 
 through again, though you can earn more achievements by doing so since it lets you finish powering 
 up all of your characters.  

  In the end, it's difficult to recommend Fantastic Four to anyone. Fans of the comic book and movie 
 will likely be frustrated by the limited abilities of the main characters, and everyone will be 
 let down by the generally unexciting, repetitive gameplay.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (30 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: SteamPipe
Rating: 2
Date: Aug 2, 2008 10:23 pm PT
Review:  Fantastic Four RSS is a 2007 game based off the Movie of the same name. You basically play as the 
 Fantastic Four and have to find out the mystery of the Silver Surfer and why he is here like the 
 movie. You will also have to fight villians that weren't seen in the movie like a mad scientist 
 who is able to control primates. The game plays like X - men legends and Marvel Ultimate Alliance 
 but much worse. The cutscenes look worse than the ingame graphics and the ingame graphics are poor 
 especially for the X360 and PS3. Typical, for a movie game of it's kind
  
  The combat is satisfying for a little bit until you get bored of repeating the same moves over 
 and over again. The game trys to copy X - Men Legends in the character customization system. You 
 kill creatures and you level up, once you level up you upgrade your character's special moves. 
 X - Men Legends has a much deeper customization system of course. Typical, for a movie game of 
 it's game
  
  FFRSS has hidden secrets all over the levels, finding these will be the only challenge in this 
 game. This game is very short and lacks any online features which is another downfall in the already 
 numorus pool. Fantastic Four is a horrible mediocre game that sucks testicle sweat in almost every 
 way. You should not ever play it for you are wasting your time and money if you do. I made that 
 mistake by buying it for $60.00. I will never buy another movie based game again because of the 
 gay, lame, and stupid game Fantastic Four: Rise of the Silver Surfer. Typical, for a movie game 
 of it's kind
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: CharlieLFCFan91
Rating: 4
Date: Jul 26, 2008 4:01 pm PT
Review:  THE GOOD
  ----------------
  The controls feel great, one of the few things that I like about hero games.
  Nice ideas, such 
 as double team moves.
  You can actually have four people play now rather than two in the previous game.
  The upgrade 
 system is a nice addition.
  Nice attempt to follow the movie.
  Helps cure sleeping problems.
  
  THE BAD
  -------------
  The levels are a joke, they go 
 on forever and they're uninteresting and tricky.
  Ridiculous voiceovers, they sound just as bored as when you play it.
  The graphics are disappointing 
 for a next-gen system.
  Just an utter bore to play after 30 minutes on the same lame level.
  
  The Fantastic Four sequel 
 game is based on the sequel movie. It's a hell of a lot better than the first movie-tie in game 
 but it still doesn't bring much new to the table. 2K is the new developer of it, and they bring 
 some cool ideas in, but nothing spectacular. After about a week this game will be on your "games 
 I never play" shelf. Well I'd suggest a rental if you are a die-hard fan. Don't even think about 
 it if you are a casual gamer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NBAmaster33
Rating: 1
Date: Dec 5, 2008 6:45 am PT
Review:  I mildly enjoyed the second Fantastic Four movie, but I still don't know why I bought this game. 
 Is worth buying at all, even for fans of the FF? Absolutely not. Is is worth renting? No way! I'll 
 give you the reasons why this is probably the worst 360 game I've played.
  The good: Harmless if not played. You can sell it to Gamestop for a decent price.
  The bad: Just 
 about everything else
  Story -- there's not much of a story throughout the game, but it is the best part about it. It loosely 
 ties in with the film, but it's still pretty bad. If you want the real story, see the movie. For 
 those who actually finish the game, the storyline is bad. The story is bad, and won't draw you 
 in, just like the rest of the game. The voice acting is also terrible.
  Graphics -- everything about the game looks bad -- the fantastic four, enemies, environments, objects. 
 Somehow the managed to make Jessica Alba look unattractive. There's nothing even remotely good 
 about the graphics.
  Gameplay -- this is the worst part about the game. You play as the fantastic four, and you can easily 
 switch between characters. There are light and heavy attacks, or a special attack with another 
 comrade. The enivronments look the same so you'll be doing lots of backtracking, making the game 
 frustrating and quite annoying. The camera does more bad than good, and the combat becomes repetitive 
 after the first 5 minutes. In fact, you'll see everything this game has to offer within the first 
 5 minutes. There's nothing satisfying about any of the character's, and you might actually want 
 to chuck your controller at your xbox.
  Story: 3.7/10 -- really bad, but it's sad since that's the best part about this game.
  Graphics: 
 2.2/10 -- it's hard to say if the graphics are even worse than the gameplay, since they're both so 
 horrible.
  Gameplay: 1.9/10 -- absolutely abysmal. This is the most repetitive, frustrating and boring game 
 I've ever played.
  Final Thoughts: Don't get this game period, for any console, even for the achievements. It's just 
 absolutely horrible and shouldn't even be on store shelves in its condition. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pennington247
Rating: 6
Date: Jun 19, 2008 3:35 pm PT
Review:  Fantastic Four is OK i dont think that is that good. I got it for Christmas and its preety easy 
 in the beginning, but i got to the part when Mr. Fantastic is on his own on mission red ghost and 
 its kinda dume, its like you have lasers shooting you and monkeys attacking you and after you beat 
 the monkeys there are like more lasers and then you like get passed more trip beams then there 
 are three huge lasers shooting at you at once and one guy vs. four lasers at once all at once shooting 
 at you and like you die in like litearly 10 seconds and every time they shoot you you stop for 
 like 2 seconds and while you stop they keep on shooting at you! Impossible to DO! If you have any 
 tips on this mission please help me because its like really hard/annoying. I hope i can do this 
 some time in the future. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: delta_116326
Rating: 7
Date: May 14, 2008 5:37 pm PT
Review:  F4 Rise of the Silver Serfur is a great super-hero game with many great aspects and some flaws. 
 The story is a expansion and reversion of the film's and is quit good until its disappointing ending. 
 The graphics on the 360 are also above most Comic-Book Video Game graphics and the voice acting 
 is very similar to the film's cast. The upgrade system is a very fun addition to the game and allows 
 you to improve your charecters or just focus on one character. The extras are plain except for 
 the unlockable costume variations that come from years of Fantastic 4 Comics. The combat system 
 is simple and can become annoying just to mash a button over and over, But the boss battles are 
 very enjoyable due to thier individuel weaknesses. The soundtrack is horrible as its barely noticable. 
 The best thing F4 offers is a great comic-book story and lush graphics and it might disappoint 
 most gamers, therefor its a game for fans of the movies or comics and not a serious gamer's thrill. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: YaMissed2
Rating: 5
Date: Feb 26, 2008 4:58 pm PT
Review:  Review: Fantastic Four 2: Rise of the Silver Surfer (360)
  
  Ok before I even begin to review this game I need to make a few statements. 1. I am a huge Silver 
 Surfer fan. 2. I have seen the movie that this game is based on and they severely nerfed him in 
 the movie, and the disappointment began, and that is after high hopes that I had coming in. 3. 
 Jessica Alba is nice to look at, but couldn't act her way out of a paper bag and Julian McMahon 
 was completely miscast as Dr Doom, now they may actually be a nice people in real life, but I don't 
 know them so I can not make any other judgments than what I have seen of them from all of the performances, 
 and public appearances on TV I have seen them in. Having made these statements can anyone really 
 be surprised that I would come in with low expectations for this game? But could I be wrong, could 
 this game rise above my low expectations and prove to be worth while?
  
  Story:
  The earth is being attacked by a silver skinned alien entity riding what appears to be a surfboard. 
 It is now up to the world's greatest super hero team The Fantastic Four to try and stop him from 
 completing his task. Meet The Fantastic Four: Mr. Fantastic (aka Reed Richards) the brains of the 
 group, a scientist extraordinaire whose abilities include being able to stretch himself to amazing 
 lengths! The Invisible Woman (aka Susan Storm soon to be Susan Richards) Sister of Johnny Storm, 
 and a brilliant scientist in her own right, with the powers to turn invisible, fly, and create 
 force shields to defend her team mates. The Human Torch (aka Johnny Storm) Brother of Susan Storm, 
 a hot shot pilot and daredevil, the second man to carry the title The Human Torch can Fly, and 
 catch his body aflame, super heating himself to over 2000 degrees Kelvin, and last but not least 
 The Thing (aka Ben Grimm) Reed Richards best friend, and personal pilot, lost most of that made 
 him human in the accident that gave the group their powers, he has amazing strength, rock hard 
 skin but has lost his human appearance, and feels outcast from society because of it.
  
  Graphics:
  Well what can I say it looks like the development team took Marvel Ultimate Alliance 
 engine for the original Xbox and gave it a glossy over coating in a weak attempt to make it appear 
 to fit into the next generation console that it was placed on. Is it the worst looking game that 
 I have played on the 360? No, but it definitely is up there. You know what? Look all you really 
 need to know is that it looks like a really good last generation game not the next generation game 
 it is supposed to be.
  
  Music & Sound:
  Bland and lifeless are the words that I think sum up the music and sound effects, and that will 
 be all I have to say about that. To be honest after hearing the completely forgettable music and 
 sound effects I was actually surprised to find that the voice acting for this game is actually 
 pretty good, and actually brings in many of the actors from the movie to reprise their roles for 
 this game, something most movie tie in movies don't do.
  
  Control & Game play:
  On the Bright side the game play is not all too bad, but could have used a lot of tweaking. To 
 be honest if the development team had spend another 2 or 3 months, maybe even waiting to release 
 the game when the move was released on DVD, than the clunky and sometimes hokey game play like 
 having many dumb puzzles that really could be solved by any member of the team, but because of 
 hoe the game play is set up only a certain member of the team can solve it like Mr. Fantastic's 
 stretching to a certain height puzzles... wait can't The Human Torch, and The Invisible Woman fly? 
 So what would I compare this game to control wise? The answer is simple, X-men Legends with all 
 of the worst flaws that the X-Men Legends and Marvel Ultimate Alliance games, without the ability 
 switch characters or any of the leveling up options of any real consequence.
  
  
  Design & Fun Factor:
  Like I said earlier this game really could have used a few more months 
 of polish, but as it stands this game is playable, which is more that I can say for some of the 
 games I have played in 2007, it isn't the worst looking game on the 360, but they are well below 
 average as a 360 game, the voice acting is actually decent, but the music sucks. Over all the game 
 has clipping and collision detection problems galore, some times comically so, as well as camera 
 angle problems like you wouldn't believe. That leave Fantastic Four 2 Rise of the Silver Surfer 
 feeling like an over all sloppily put together game.
  
  What can I say? If you are a fan of either the Fantastic Four, or the Silver Surfer, go out and 
 buy Marvel Ultimate Alliance on your 360 since it is a finer polished game and feature all of the 
 characters in this game as playable characters (either by unlocking them or download them) , you 
 know that is if you didn't get a free copy of it when you bought your 360.
  
  
  Graphics
  6/10
  
  Game play
  4/10
  
  Sound
  5/10
  
  Fun factor
  5/10
  
 
  Tilt
  2/10
  
  Average score
  5.0
  
  
  Fantastic Four 2 Rise of the Silver Surfer:
  
  
  Pros:
  This game is the bomb.. after 6 
 or 7 beers if you really need a laugh.
  
  Cons:
  This game feels like a cheap underdeveloped Marvel Ultimate Alliance clone
  Too many to name 
 really 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mazdaman99
Rating: 6
Date: Jan 3, 2008 5:55 am PT
Review:  To be honest the game feels rushed and unfinished. There is nothing here that hasn't been done 
 a million times before and it won't take you long to complete. Oh, and the graphics are sloppier 
 than a cheese burger from McDonalds. Having said that, at times this game can be fun, not all the 
 time but some of the time. Moreover, on the Gamestation website it's only 4.99, so even if you 
 don't like the game, which you probably won't if your used to the standard of games such as Call 
 of Duty 4 or Gears of War, there are still an easy 1000 achievements here for just a fiver. That's 
 50p per 100 achievements. Now that is a bargain. If it wasn't for the fact the game was so cheap 
 I would have not given it a second look, however for a fiver, it's well worth a try, and at least 
 you'll bump up your gamerscore even if the gameplay leaves a lot to be desired. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: godzillavskong
Rating: 4
Date: Nov 21, 2007 4:37 pm PT
Review:  First let me start with the graphics. I have seen better graphics on my Dreamcast. The character 
 models look unfinished. The environments aren't well thought out and look bland. The textures are 
 awful and when you crush or destroy items such as rocks or boxes they expode into 2 or 3 triangles. 
 I am not joking when I say that this game could run on the Dreamcasts hardware with no problem. 
 
  Next is the gameplay. This area suffers also. If you have played Marvel Ultimate Alliance then 
 get prepared to be shocked at the control scheme of this gem. They tried to borrow from Marvel 
 but it just doesn't work out at all. Each charcters special moves really aren't that special. I 
 know I'm not a "pro gamer", but it took me about 10 tries to get Torch to fly over a electrical 
 beam in the first level. 
  Last is the sound. This might be the only bright spot in the game. It really isn't that good but 
 it is far more enjoyable to listen to the game then to play it. I know this is a movie tie in game 
 and could've been rushed to make release along side of the movie, but haven't we learned anything 
 from rushing games? Not only that, this game was released on all 3 next-gen platforms and the PS2. 
 So the development team might have been spread too thin. 
  My final advice on this is game is to buy it if you are a big Marvel Comic geek or if you can find 
 it for $10 like I did. I wouldn't even recommend renting it. I figured I could spend $10 just for 
 the achievements. I can't believe this game comes from the same publisher that gave us Bioshock. 
 I know that they didn't develop it (Visual Concepts did) but it seems like 2K could have done a 
 lot better! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: treb3
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 7, 2007 7:57 am PT
Review:  well today im here to talk about fantastic 4: rise of the silver surfer the game based on the 3 
 star jessica alba movie of yester-summer. the first thing you notice is that you have diffrent 
 powers these power are essential to getting through this game. the graphics are alright, not the 
 best but there ok there ok. the gameplay blows its like a weak marvel ultimet allince. I'd recomend 
 this game to anyone who can play local co-op otherwize avoid this game or else you'll be like me. 
 have that game dusting on my shelf. this game also has really easy achevment points. Its worth 
 a rent I guess 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mr_manboy
Rating: 3
Date: Sep 29, 2007 3:26 pm PT
Review:  I got this game free with Halo 3... and there was a reason it was free. The gameplay is pretty 
 poor, although the use of the superpowers and multiple characters is pretty cool. The fights are 
 all the same, sometimes going into identical rooms and rooftops dozens of times, and fighting the 
 same enemies over and over. The fighting is more or less just button mashing, ( Press X Five times 
 to do an uppercut! ) . It's cool that you can do four player multiplayer, but the camera is nearly 
 impossible to control, and you can't tell where you are. The game is easy to a point where there's 
 nothing to it, and you basically just choose which power you want to kill people with, even if 
 you die you just take another character, as long as you have at least one of your 4 characters 
 alive, you stay in the game. The only real challenge is playing the game without getting bored 
 of your mind 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mad4gamez
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 27, 2007 8:08 pm PT
Review:  Guess, you could say I'm a little influenced... I got this game free with Halo 3. Even though I've 
 just started the game, at first glance I can't see what all the negativity is about. The graphics 
 are decent, gamplay is acceptable and sound effects though at times can be repetitive, is ok. Character 
 interpretations are pretty good. Not a garbage game by any means. The only gripe is that it can 
 be rather annoying having control of 4 characters lives if your a single player, so play with some 
 friends. Maybe not worth 50-60 bucks; but it's definitely worth a look. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MasterChief725
Rating: 7.2
Date: Aug 1, 2007 7:59 pm PT
Review:  This game is alot like what I wanted the first one to be like. Although it is rather repetetive, 
 there are little or no bugs, and the graphics are much better, and the campaign is longer. I personally 
 liked the campaign if you ignore the repetitiveness, (and rather interesting mission objectives) . 
 The ability to play as all 4 at any given time is a big plus, not to mention, more abilities for 
 each of the four. While the thing is useful for just smashing through enemies, the human torch 
 requires more skill with the fireballs and stuff, Mr. Fantastic is fun to use sometimes, with those 
 stretchy attacks, and the Invisible Woman is fun to sneak past people and use psychic attacks. 
 It really depends on what mood you are in. I love button mashers, and this one was pretty good. 
 It was a very average game though considering if I didnt love button mashers... But, the main complaint 
 with this game, and the reason it didnt score 20 points higher, was the fact that their abilites 
 were hindered so much. I mean I guess I cant expect Mr. Fantastic to reach to the end of levels 
 (literally) and for Invisible Woman to sneak past everyone, Thing to destroy everything, and Human 
 Torch to fly through the whole level, but it needed a lot more freedom, something like spiderman, 
 or superman returns freedom. Great cutscenes also, pick up for your PS3 or Xbox 360 when it is 
 around $30. Definately not worth $60.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VitaExodus
Rating: 5.1
Date: Jul 31, 2007 8:44 am PT
Review:  Fantastic four, the game.... I highly advise reading 80% of the reviews for this game before even 
 thinking of touching this game in a rental place or even the thought of buying it. Movie-to-game 
 attempts have been known to be pretty bad, and this is most definitely no exception.
  
  The gameplay is a feeble attempt to take the x-men legends formula and work it for the game. It 
 doesn't work: The RPG element of it isn't as interesting as it could be at all, the action itself 
 isn't very fun, and the story part itself is quite flawed. The graphics are more like a ps2 graphics 
 - Not god of war graphics, I mean the launch titles. One of the few enjoyable moments is hearing 
 the thing do his impression of spongebob squarepants when you switch to him: I''mmmmm ready. 
 
  
  The audio is quite lame, no exciting music or enjoyable voice acting. No need to mention replay 
 value because by the time you get halfway through and start fighting ravenous stun-locking mutant 
 space monkeys, you'll turn off your game system and start to cry. I rented it for $2 and wanted 
 my money back. Treat this game like a virus. Nice try, but no go this time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rulo_rezn0r
Rating: 1.7
Date: Jul 28, 2007 12:41 am PT
Review:  to be honest i didnt went to the movies to see this one
  but today i went to my local blockbuster and i rented this game, in hopes of easy achievements
 
  im sure im gonna return this game right away tomorrow
  is completely horrible
  terrible graphics and control, ugly cinemas, crappy animations
  when i started playing i just 
 asked my self, is this a ps1 game? because the cinemas and graphics are comparable to games of 
 2 gens ago
  Never ever get this game, unless u want to experience one of the worst videogames out there for 
 the 360, its a rushed effort in all the ways you wanna look at it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: miiiguel
Rating: 4.9
Date: Jul 9, 2007 4:09 am PT
Review:  Because we buy them..., that's why!
  Well, I bought the game, I confess. 69 Eur, that's around 90 Dollars (yeah, that's how much games 
 cost here, crazy, isn't it?) .
  I'm a huge comix fan, I collect different genres that goes from Strapi to Busiek. Allthough I prefer 
 Vertigo, Marvel have been improving in the last two years.
  Not in games, I'm affraid. This has one of the worst implementation of a fairly good source material 
 I've seen in ages.
  The art is poor and as the whole game, shallow. It's bland, it has a plastic look (wich could be 
 good) with no personality whatsoever. All in all the least bad is the thing , it's sort of... okish. 
 Landscape-wise starts from beeing so-so, to beeing plain boring and very dark sometimes, wich becomes 
 allmost unplayable unless ones tunes the tv, pumping up brightness.
  I the sound department, wich in my idea, should be easy to deliver, it also messes up, sometimes 
 the sound goes up with no reason at all (in the middle of a dialogue) , sometimes it almost fades 
 completly.
  Characters are very unballanced ibn terms of power, like GS said, and anyone who have played the 
 game, notices that the thing is way more powerfull than all and any other characters, specifically 
 it's wave attack.
  It has the possibility of increasing the characters levels by spending coins , wich can be found 
 by smashing objects, but it's all too shallow, due to the unballenced power.
  The game all-arround reminds me of X-Men The Official Game of the Movie , but allthough, artistically 
 they on par (or maybe, just maybe, this later one, can be a tiny little bit more polished) , X-Men 
 had a few good bosses to battle with, it was soemwhat engaging. Not this one. To illustrate: there's 
 this one boss Terrax that takes, what seems ages to kill, but it bores one to death, with little 
 to no sense of achievement.
  Well, Achievements are there and a bit well placed, so it's kinda ok to play the whole game.
 
  Below average. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tarantula878
Rating: 4.6
Date: Jun 27, 2007 11:40 am PT
Review:  When I first played Fantastic Four rise of the silver surfer I was disappointed and wish I never 
 spent $60.00 on a game so bad. To start this game isn't that pretty even on next gen consoles. 
 There are plenty of rough and ugly parts of the game that you can tell that there was not enough 
 time spent into making. The cut scenes are also ugly and have silly looking animations. There are 
 just no facial expressions either, especially when you watch the cut scenes. The game also asks 
 you to teetius tasks that are especially boring. The combat in fantastic four rise of the silver 
 surfer is probably the best part of the game, But that statement eventually fades away since you 
 cant learn any new moves or combos in the game. Another bad thing is the camera especially when 
 you play cooperative play. At the end of the day Fantastic four is another rushed low budget movie 
 game like Spider man 3 or Transformers. Fantastic Four Rise of the silver surfer ain't so fantastic 
 on consoles. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Aperez428
Rating: 2
Date: Jun 27, 2007 10:05 am PT
Review:  Got my money back after opening the game!!! Wow I didn't even take the rapper off... I used a razer 
 just to be safe got the game out... played 10 minutes and then put it back and wrapped it like it 
 was new for a return. This game taught me that I will never give in to a movie game... until the 
 bargain bin comes along I will use it as a coaster for my cups. I rather play the first atari 2600 
 100 days striaght with no food, oxygen, dipped in sewer water, then watch a pethetic attempt of 
 a game. I mean come on. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smarts1563
Rating: 4.9
Date: Jun 25, 2007 11:35 am PT
Review:  What can you really expect for a game made from a movie? What you can expect isn't a lot. All the 
 game designers want to do is make a game out of a hit blockbuster movie and try and get it out 
 onto the market not far after the movie came out. They don't focus for years on end about graphics 
 or shading, they just hope the movie's hype will sell the game no matter what it looks like, or 
 how good (or really bad) the game play is. It all depends. If you want to act like the actors in 
 the films and live the story of the movie then you should buy the game. If you're a hard core gamer 
 like me, don't waste your time or money, wait for a game like bioshock or mass effect to come out. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: destinyreeper
Rating: 2.3
Date: Jun 23, 2007 9:39 am PT
Review:  This game was extremly poor on every aspect of gaming standards. When movies are made into games 
 they are usually very poor anyway, but this game took it too a whole new level. Because the movie 
 tells you the storyline the game is ruined ,but thats not the only reason. The gameplay was absolutely 
 terible, it was the same as every other movie game!! It has something to collect the moves are all 
 virtually the same and the game was not a challenge at all. If you have ever seen the incredibles 
 game or have played it, you would see how alike they are and how rubbish they both are. This game 
 took me about 6 hours to complete-which isn't alot-and i could of spent that time on something 
 that was actually usefull and fun!! If you want to play this game definetely rent it first thentake 
 back when you finished, which shouldn't be long after renting. I wouldn't reccomend this to a gamer 
 but to a little child with no idea what their doing.
  
  destinyreep3r______/\ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hybrid_Soulja
Rating: 3.3
Date: Jun 23, 2007 4:10 am PT
Review:  I'm gonna make this as short and sweet as I can. This game is just bad, it's not fun at all to 
 play unless you have 3 other players and even then the fun doesn't last long. The levels have no 
 detail at all to them and the character models look so-so nothing that screams next gen. But the 
 biggest disappointment of all is the gameplay, it has a level up system that offers the usual (new 
 moves) but thats about it. All in all the game won't take long to finish (8-10 Hours) and its done 
 with. Unless your a massive Fantastic 4 fan and have to play the game then by all means rent it. 
 Other then that see the movie, skip the game... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bucfan47
Rating: 2
Date: Jun 22, 2007 10:42 am PT
Review:  Why does anyone buy games that are based on movies? They always suck! Except Chronicles of Riddick 
 Butchers Bay, which is the best movie-based game of all-time. Why does anyone buy games that are 
 based on movies? They always suck! Except Chronicles of Riddick Butchers Bay, which is the best 
 movie-based game of all-time. Why does anyone buy games that are based on movies? They always suck! 
 Except Chronicles of Riddick Butchers Bay, which is the best movie-based game of all-time. Why 
 does anyone buy games that are based on movies? They always suck! Except Chronicles of Riddick 
 Butchers Bay, which is the best movie-based game of all-time. Why does anyone buy games that are 
 based on movies? They always suck! Except Chronicles of Riddick Butchers Bay, which is the best 
 movie-based game of all-time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: anthonykohart
Rating: 5
Date: Jun 22, 2007 12:43 am PT
Review:  I will start off by saying the game did not follow the movie at all. The only part that was like 
 the movie even remotley was the end. To make things even worse you don't even get to be the silver 
 surfer. I thought the game dragged on. Everything you fight was pretty much the same. It felt like 
 i just kept fight the same monsters over and over. Another thing is the game was really short and 
 really easy. I beat the game on fantastic mode (hard) in about 4 hours. There was one thing i like 
 though and that was the ability to level up everybodies super powers. That was a big plus. If you 
 are looking to buy this game i would advise you not to. I don't even know if i would tell you to 
 rent the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheVinster
Rating: 5
Date: Jun 21, 2007 11:41 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: You have the option as playing as any of the Fantastic Four (Thing, Invisible Woman, 
 Torch, Mr. Fantastic) in a beat'm-up fest of repetivity. Guess what? This is your basic tie-in, 
 so here we have a crappy game based on a sub-par and overhyped movie (hey, we can argue about Galactus 
 all day but I gotta review) . Anyway, you press A for light attacks, X for strong, you can combine 
 powers with the character you're using and a nearby one, you can also choose to use one of your 
 character's 4 abilities. As far as abilities go, the Torch can throw fireballs, Mr. Fantastic can 
 be useless (like always) , Invisible Woman can completely avoid being invisible, and the Thing is 
 probably the weakest character of selections... even though he's a human hard-on. Throughout the 
 game you'll do the same thing over and over again, bosses are uncreative and the enemies are of 
 the same sort, oh hey a monkey, a monkey with goggles, a freakin' huge monkey with red eyes, oh 
 a monkey boss, okay on to the next level. That's about it folks. The only fun thing in this game 
 is playing as the Thing and picking up and throwing enemies off the level, and guess what, that's 
 not very fun. One last thing to add, you can't even accidentally fall off edges, that's right.
 
  
  Graphics: Probably some of the worst graphics on the Xbox 360, I'm saying this could be a decent 
 PS2 game, that's how bad they are. Not only are the textures re-used over and over again, but the 
 graphics themselves are muddy, and since there really is no distinction between what you can and 
 cannot destroy you'll be attacking random stuff waiting for it to break. The characters themselves 
 look nothing like the actors from the movies (except Reed, he resembles his counterpart I suppose) , 
 and Jessica Alba's looks cannot save her digital other. The worst part is they use the actual actors 
 as place-holders to help select your characters, and this just not fit in.
  
  Sound: Boring, nothing new, I can make better sound with a balloon and Jell-o.
  
  Value: Nada, 
 it makes you collect stuff trying to add in replayability, but who really wants to play it again? 
 Also, the achievements are uninspired, and uhh... ya. Basically this game is hardly even worth 
 the rental fees of a Xbox 360 game nowadays, so you could borrow it from some idiot who bought 
 it, or search for pennies under your bed in an attempt to rent it.
  
  Reviewer's Tilt: Doesn't do the significantly better movie justice, this game makes the Spider-Man 
 3 game look like God of War 2. Overall it's probably one of the worst tie-ins I've played in my 
 gaming career. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: killyou44
Rating: 2.7
Date: Jun 21, 2007 7:18 pm PT
Review:  FF4: ROTSS is the worst game I've played this year hands down. From the worst voice acting I've 
 seen in quite some time to combat that literally becomes boring five minutes into play. Fantastic 
 4: 2 is a suck fest of epic proportions. To start the graphics are ugly as sin. I thought this 
 was a 360 game? Why do all the environments and enemy models looks like they were copy and pasted 
 from an early PS2 game? Am I supposed to be impressed by the fact that the boxes and boulders in 
 the area destructible? I think not. This game is just plain and simple butt ugly. I guess the fantastic 
 4 themselves don't look completely awful as character models but they're nothing over mediocre 
 either. The story is a joke as well that does little to grab your attention save for the hilariously 
 awful voice work. The robot voice on the speech function of your computer would have been more 
 acceptable then the horrendous voice work of this game. Just truly embarrassing stuff. The game 
 play is truly awful as well. The character balancing as the GS review pointed is terrible. The 
 only character you'll want to play as is the thing as you can button jam your way to victory with 
 ease. All three of the other character are nothing short of useless save for maybe Johnny in some 
 cases. Anyway repetitive button smashing is all youre in for the whole game and it gets old as 
 I said before the instant you start playing. There are only 5 missions in the game so the agony 
 of playing won't last to long but I couldn't manage to finish the game even with the allure of 
 easy achievement points I simply couldn't stomach the game for that long. This is a terrible game 
 that isn't worth a second of your time. There is just justification for suffering through this 
 mess of a game. It's a worthless cash in that's an embarrassing even to many cash in titles like 
 it. Stay far away from FF4: ROTSS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alexmon
Rating: 4
Date: Jun 20, 2007 8:22 pm PT
Review:  Ok, I'm not gonna go into depth about each catagory (gameplay, sound, etc.) like I do with my other 
 reviews. This game doesn't deserve that sort of treatment. Overall, this game pretty much sucks. 
 Well, what can you expect from a movie-game? The graphics are plain out bad, with wonky animations, 
 character models, and the actual levels are dull. Gameplay is your usual boring, uninspired button-mashing 
 beat-em-up, but with a few added special attacks and such. However, i did like that the actual 
 actors provided the voice-acting, and some of the sound effects were nice. The bad camera and the 
 usual hollywood game with the  load of bugs is present yet again. 
 The AI in this game is absolute crap offering you no challenge whatsoever.
  
  Overall, this is just another one of your rushed, garbage, over-priced, money-milking pieces of 
 crap movie-games.
  
  P. S. How come the only 2 good movie games out of HUNDREDS are King Kong and Chronicles of Riddick? 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bdiccus
Rating: 4
Date: Jun 20, 2007 8:54 am PT
Review:  Typical game from the Hollywood pukes slapping together bogus storyline and bad graphics. Total 
 garbage not worth 20 bucks, let alone 60. The game is full of bugs, bad camera angles and for the 
 PS3 doesn't support optical out audio. If you want to enjoy a Marvel game stick with Ultimate Alliance. 
 Here are some bad design examples: Johnny's flame throwing ability is totally useless. It arches 
 from left to right w/o no control over it. His flying is nice but not very useful. The AI is absolutely 
 horrendous and deaths are mildly entertaining except when The Thing throws someone and the animation 
 show him throwing him forward but he ends up throwing it behind him. Oh and every now and then 
 he'll possess telekineses because as he throws an enemy it magnetically returns to him. There are 
 way to many examples as to why this game sucks to cover this here but we shouldn't be surprised 
 that the developers would churn out this garbage nor should be blame them. I'm sure that the movie 
 studios were pressuring them to cop a squat and drop this steamer on us. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheOne5416
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 19, 2007 8:33 pm PT
Review:  With such a slow summer, there could be no better choice than to turn to movie-based games. And 
 what better than ANOTHER sequel, right? So it's Fantastic 4: Rise of the Silver Surfer this week.
 
  
  Basically, the game is ok. It's a marked improvement over the last one, but mostly gameplay-wise. 
 The fusion attacks are pretty nice and work well against large groups of enemies (what they were 
 made for anyway) . Everything looks pretty good, but mostly the character models. Ben and Sue fluctuate 
 a bit though and could end up looking kinda weird (not bad, just weird) . The environments are pretty 
 basic and get really repetitive.
  
  Once again, all you really have to do is beat people up. There's a few puzzle-ish things to do, 
 but they aren't too hard. It gets pretty old after a little while though, more so because it the 
 game just drops you into a level and, like I said, you beat people up until you get to the end. 
 Some levels don't even really have a boss. And what sucks, there's not much incentive for the 360 
 version. There's no extras. The DS seems to be where it's at because you can play as the Silver 
 Surfer AND control the Fantasticar. Anyway, for a full length review, check this out:
  http://www. gamer20. com/gamehub/fantastic-four-rise-of-the-silver-surfer-x360/review/996/ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BigC43
Rating: 4.3
Date: Jun 19, 2007 5:18 am PT
Review:  The Good: It follows the movie pretty well, there are some easy achievements, combo attacks are 
 kinda cool.
  
  The Bad: Extremely repetitive, some levels are just plain boring, no original film cast members 
 are featured, Xbox quality graphics, plays very genericlly, no online multiplayer.
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  In 2005, The Fantastic 4 finally got a movie. The movie itself was decent, but the game adaptation 
 wasn't so good. 2 years later, a second Fantastic 4 movie came out, and there has to be a game 
 to go along with it. This game is being published by 2K instead of Activision, and developed by 
 ESPN NFL vets Visual Consepts. Unfortunately, a change in developer and publisher can't save Fantastic 
 4: Rise of the Silver Surfer, from being anything but a generic, bad movie based game. In the game, 
 you can control the entire team of super heroes, whose members include Mr. Fantastic, The Human 
 Torch, The Thing and The Invisible Woman. Each hero has their own unique moves, all of which are 
 used to progress in the game. Sometimes, The Thing may need to break a rock wall, or Torch will 
 need to melt some ice. All basic stuff, but it adds some variety to the game, I guess.
  
  The game's storyline follows the movie's quite well. The additional sections that were not in the 
 movie flow well with the rest of the story. It would seem as though this is a subpar game that 
 could be enjoyable. That's where you're wrong.
  
  For starters, the game is extremely repetitive. You enter a room, defeat some enemies, open the 
 next door, defeat some more enemies. I could go on and on... The combat isn't inventive, nor is 
 it particularly fun in any way, shape or form. None of the character's basic attacks are very interesting, 
 and even their special attacks aren't exciting. It's just the same, basic action game level, in 
 a blue skin. Nothing special, only somewhat painful to play.
  
  The visuals aren't the worst, but they aren't the best either. It looks like a higher end Xbox 
 game, which is better than what I can say for some other 360 games. The voice acting is ok, but 
 none of the movie's cast provides voicework. You know you want to hear Jessica Alba's voice, right?
 
  
  The boss fights can be somewhat enjoyable, but they honestly aren't unlike anything you've seen 
 before. They are basic, but can be fun. Not only is the gameplay itself bad, but you aren't even 
 treated to the easy achievements like most movie games. Shame... It would have played decently 
 with some kind of online co-op, but there is none, so you're stuck playing by yourself by switching 
 characters, or with friends on the same system.
  
  Overall, I would avoid Fantastic 4: Rise of the Silver Surfer at all costs. Marvel Ultimate Alliance 
 is a much better game where you can play as all four team members and the Silver Surfer. This superhero 
 game is a super looser in my book.
  
  Gameplay: Boring, repetitive action sequences that aren't fun at all.
  
  Graphics: It looks 
 like a nice Xbox game, which is ok, I guess.
  
  Sound: A subpar score with none of the movie's cast. Sound's pretty bad to me.
  
  Value: If 
 you must play this, rent it. Don't buy it. It's a complete waste of money.
  
  Final Thoughts: Play this game, and The Thing will find you... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rowletteagle09
Rating: 4.2
Date: Jun 18, 2007 12:47 pm PT
Review:  First let me tell everyone that the new movie is actually very good. If you haven't seen it yet 
 I highly suggest you go out and see. I was hoping that this game would show people how good the 
 movie really was. Man I was wrong. So thats why i wrote this review. I hope I can save you not 
 spend your $60 on this game. I hope you don't even to spend your $8 just to rental this game. The 
 graphics just boring and plain. None of the characters look anything like the actors except Mr. 
 Fantastic. Each level looks exactly the same from each room or area you just came from. The gameplay 
 is maybe the bright spot, which is a huge reach. Each charcater has its own special moves from 
 character to character. Mr. Fantastic can reach to that the others can't, and he throws grenades.... 
 Why? The Thing can beat up rocks or any other obstacles that get in your way. He was my favorite 
 by far. Johnny can fly when needed, and throw fireballs. To bad they made him seem like a little 
 good boy, instead of the cocky guy he really is. And Sue can walk invisible to remain unseen. Which 
 is pointless because the team is always following you. So while your trying to be sneaky, the team 
 gives away your position and you start getting pounded. The powers are fun for about 10 minutes. 
 Until you get so bored you want to do some good old button mashing against the bad guys. O wait 
 you have about 4 combos to use so every time you fight they do the same moves OVER AND OVER. The 
 boss fights are boring. The only fun part is flying The Torch after Silver Surfer. The sound also 
 is horrible. Of course they couldn't be like Spider-man and get the actors to actually talk in 
 the game. O no they get some random people to talk who really dont sound anything like the actors 
 from the movie. Also the music is annoying. And to top it off there is no Xbox live Co-Op so no 
 playing with your friends unless there in the same room. Xbox Live would have made this game alot 
 better. Cause the only time I had fun was when my two buds and I were all playing together. Well 
 to make my review short and sweet, which really hurts me so say this. Please don't waste a single 
 dollar on this game on this poor game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: robdpremier
Rating: 4.6
Date: Jun 16, 2007 11:22 pm PT
Review:  Folks, this is where your Gamefly or Blockbuster game membership pays off!! F4 ROTSS looked to 
 be really good and the movie is great. So, why wasn't there a playable Demo? Didn't want to spoil 
 the upcoming movie? Uh, NO. This game fails on most levels and the developer knew if we had a hands 
 on Not many of us would be dropping 60 bucks June 15 for this disappointment! The Graphics are 
 passable, the enemies get repetitious and NO Online at all? This is a step backwards from for ex: 
 Marvel UA! I am a big fan of Marvel in general but even I expect More from this game! Unless you 
 have a bottomless well of funds and MUST have Every 360 title that gets released, wait for this 
 to at least drop a few bucks before you pick it up! Or rent it and figure you spent 5 to make sure 
 you didn't waste 60 dollars! 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
