-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Far Cry Instincts Predator
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/xbox360/action/farcryinstinctspredator/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 One of the best shooters on the Xbox comes to the Xbox 360.
 Two single-player campaigns and a big multiplayer suite to play.
 Tons of excellent gameplay to experience, especially if you never played Far Cry Instincts.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 The new campaign not as sharp as the original campaign.
 Graphics, while good, aren't quite up to Xbox 360 standards.
 Mostly redundant if you played last year's Xbox version.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Apr  3, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.9
Critic Score: 7.7, 60 Review (s)
User Score: 8.0, 3,679 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Ubisoft
Developer: Ubisoft Montreal
Genre: Modern First-Person...
Date: Mar 28, 2006
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
By packaging last year's excellent Far Cry Instincts with a new campaign and a bigger multiplayer 
 suite, Far Cry Instincts Predator delivers a ton of content to Xbox 360 owners. 

  Far Cry Instincts was one of the best games released on the Xbox last year. It was also one of 
 the most demanding, and you could easily tell that the Xbox was being pushed to its limits. Unfortunately, 
 Xbox 360 owners looking to run the game on their next-generation consoles haven't had any luck; 
 the game isn't currently backward compatible with the Xbox 360. Enter Far Cry Instincts Predator, 
 a convoluted name for what is essentially an Xbox 360 version of Far Cry Instincts, along with 
 a new campaign and enhanced multiplayer support.  

          Jack Carver and the jungle, two good things that are great together.     

  There's 
 a lot of gameplay in Predator. The first campaign tells the tale of how Jack Carver, a retired 
 Navy commando now a charter-boat captain, gets stranded on a remote Pacific island where a mad 
 scientist is doing his best Dr. Moreau impersonation, creating human-animal hybrids. Along the 
 way, Jack himself is injected with the mysterious serum and becomes an incredibly lethal killing 
 machine, adept with both guns (lots of them) and his animal powers to tear people to shreds. If 
 you missed out on Far Cry Instincts the first time around, you're in for a treat, because there's 
 a reason why this is one of the best shooters on the Xbox. Far Cry Instincts combines traditional 
 run-and-gun gameplay with a healthy amount of skulking around a jungle. You can stealthily infiltrate 
 enemy compounds, set up elaborate traps in the bushes, and sneak up behind guys and knife them 
 in the back. Along the way, you'll be able to haul around in a variety of vehicles, from pick-ups 
 to boats to even a hang glider.  

  The new campaign is more like an expansion than a full campaign, as it's about half the length 
 of the original. Still, considering that the original campaign was easily at least 10 hours long, 
 there's about five to six hours of content here to enjoy. In this new campaign, Carver still finds 
 himself down on his luck in paradise when he meets Kade, a beautiful woman who hires him to act 
 as muscle for a gun-running deal she has going with the local warlords. Of course, something goes 
 wrong, and before too long, Carver finds himself once again on the run in the jungle, battling 
 rebels as well as a tribe of animal-human hybrids who leap about like characters from  Crouching 
 Tiger, Hidden Dragon . Maybe it's the sense that we've done this already before, or maybe it's 
 some of the contrived gameplay mechanics that rear their ugly head, but this new campaign doesn't 
 measure up to the original. For instance, enemies have a constant habit of instantly spawning next 
 to you (so much for sneaking around the jungle) , and in some cases, there are unlimited waves of 
 them, a not-so-subtle hint to move on. Then there are the numerous jumping puzzles that border 
 from mildly annoying to downright frustrating.  

  With that said, there's some good stuff in the new campaign as well. One of our issues with the 
 original campaign was that it was fairly linear. The new campaign introduces a couple of wide-open 
 environments that let you tackle the objectives any way you'd like, and you have to hunt around 
 a bit to figure out what to do, which gets rid of some of the hand-holding inherent in most shooters. 
 The artificial intelligence seems a bit sharper than before, and you'll see guys duck behind cover, 
 though they'll still also be inclined to charge at you. Meanwhile, you can play around with a bigger 
 arsenal, including Molotov cocktails, and there's nothing more enjoyable than setting a bad guy 
 on fire and then watching him run toward you in panic. There are a few new vehicles as well, but 
 the corny vehicle physics remain unchanged from the original game. In particular, the physics seem 
 a bit too loose; there's too much bump when you hit objects, as if you're driving around in bumper 
 cars.  

  When you're done with the two single-player campaigns, there's a full-featured multiplayer suite 
 to delve into. The original multiplayer levels are all here, along with a number of new maps based 
 on the Predator campaign, including Shanty Town, an elevated fishing village. Multiplayer modes 
 still feature deathmatch and team deathmatch, as well as capture the flag (steal the sample) and 
 predator mode, in which one player gets animal powers and the rest don't. One of the nice features 
 about the game is the built-in map editor, which makes making and sharing maps incredibly simple. 
 Indeed, there's about an equal split between official and user-made levels on Xbox Live, and downloading 
 new levels is seamless and automatic.  

          The new campaign isn't as good as the original campaign, but it still has its share of 
 moments.     

  There's no denying that Predator looks good, with its incredibly lush jungle environments. However, 
 there's little question that the game could look a lot better. Frankly, it seems just like a high-res 
 version of the original Xbox game at times, a fact that you're reminded of whenever you see the 
 horribly blocky weapons models, or the incredibly plastic-looking characters, or some downright 
 low-resolution textures. On a standard-definition display, it's hard to distinguish Predator from 
 the original Xbox version. Things get somewhat better on a high-definition screen, but the sharpness 
 also emphasizes some of the low-polygon models. The audio still sounds good, from the primal techno 
 music to the subtler sound effects. However, the mixing seems off, particularly during cutscenes, 
 and it's hard to hear some of the dialogue at times.  

  If you didn't play Far Cry Instincts on the Xbox last year, then you'll definitely get a lot of 
 value out of Predator, since you're effectively getting two games as well as the multiplayer suite. 
 This is a good package that offers a ton of excellent content to chew through, especially if you're 
 trying to unlock the myriad achievements. Far Cry Instincts veterans, on the other hand, may balk 
 at the full price -- in which case you have some good news. You can pick up the Xbox version of Predator 
 (titled Far Cry Instincts Evolution) and get just the new campaign, at a lower price. (You also 
 won't have to play through the original campaign again to unlock the new campaign) . And on a standard-definition 
 display, it'll be hard to tell the difference, anyway.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (302 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: hoffses420
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 20, 2009 9:33 am PT
Review:  it was a good game, it was fun running throughte jungle like some wild animal stalking then killing 
 your prey with the savage abilitys of some kind of wild beast! i spent many hours playing this 
 game listening to metal killing every one and everything that stood in your your way wether it 
 was with traps, a sniper or your bare fists like a cold blooded freak! if you like first person 
 shooters youl like this game i promise, im mean come on you start out running from your problems 
 trying to find an some peace in your life at the bottom of every glass and then a photographer 
 comes and asks you to bringher to an island to take some close up photos and you did so only after 
 sleeping with her, so you get out there and she takes the jet ski you fall asleep next thing you 
 know your under attack so you jump of the flamming boat into the water where swim to shore and 
 your journey beguins and you end up getting captured and they inject u wityh some weird steriod 
 type deal thats been extracted from a local plant and as you go on you get all sorts of neat tricks 
 night vison, super smell, super strength, super speed it was good i highly recomend playing this 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 6StringShredder
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 17, 2008 7:49 pm PT
Review:  Far cry is a very adventuress game, once you are blown off your own tour boat. You become stranded 
 on this old WW2 Island full of heartless mercenaries. You will fight your way through the mercenaries 
 in attempt to get off the island, soon getting a huge reputation among the merc's and they will 
 hunt you like a deer. The master mind behind these Merc's has a special plan for you once he gets 
 a grasp on you. But he makes a wrong choice for you, and soon the hunters become the hunted. Later 
 in the game you become almost super human, I wont ruin the ability's but you will some times feel 
 like road runner mixed with hulk.
  
  The graphics are pretty good, there are times when you will walk through some shrubs and trees 
 and intake an amazing view from what seem like 600 feet above with waterfalls poring down into 
 the river below. Mountains in the distance add to the amazing view. Very vivid, makes you feel 
 like you are really lost on a massive island. ( forgot to mention that later in the game monsters 
 attack at night)
  
  THE MAP EDITOR!!! So much stuff you could do, and make mountains and rivers and forest's and scape 
 the land however you want, endless possibility's which also adds to multiplayer. There are infinity 
 maps, and there are some interesting and really fun game modes that kept me up allll night playing. 
 
  
  The only down sides I could think of really think of is, that some points in the game are pretty 
 difficult and get annoying, but once you pass it you will want to keep going.. AND when you shoot 
 at enemys it takes unrealistic amounts of bullets to kill them but doesn't kill the fun. I would 
 deffinaley buy this game if you are into adventuress FPS's with deep story's.
  
  Graphics-6/10
  Story-8/10
  Audio-7/10
  Mechanics/Glitches. Ect-9/10
  Multiplayer-8/10
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarthVillainous
Rating: 3
Date: Nov 6, 2008 11:42 pm PT
Review:  Far Cry Instincts Predator consists of two games: the original Far Cry, and the expansion, Far 
 Cry Instincts. While it might seem like you're getting a good bang for your buck with two games 
 in one, Far Cry Instincts Predator is a total letdown, a waste of money, and one of the worst games 
 I've ever played.
  
  PROS
  
  You get two games on one disc.
  
  CONS
  
  There are many things wrong with this game. To begin, the game is very buggy, and broken. There 
 are numerous glitches that occur, ranging from show-stopping ones like cutscenes that won't load, 
 or doors that won't open but should, to milder ones like enemies that spawn in midair. The worst 
 one that occured to me was one bug where the end boss of Far Cry suddenly stopped moving, and wouldn't 
 die. I had to kill myself and reload the previous checkpoint, and had to do the fight all over 
 again, for about the dozenth time. The amount of bugs in the game is incredibly annoying, especially 
 since many of them are major ones.
  
  The story is also broken. It consists of a loosely strung-together narrative in which the protagonist 
 is injected with some stuff that is supposed to undo human evolution and make people strong again. 
 Or something. It doesn't really make any sense, and the plotholes and lack of explanation carry 
 over to the expansion pack. It's poorly done, so much so that it's one of the worst stories I've 
 ever seen in a video game.
  
  There are also numerous problems with the controls. They are extremely imprecise, and the targeting 
 reticule is an awkwardly large circle. What this means is that when you're shooting at someone, 
 you don't even have to be targeted on them - you can simply have them somewhere inside the circle, 
 and your bullets will home in on them. It's incredibly lame, and the combination of bad controls 
 and auto-aiming that can't be turned off makes for a game where it's simply not fun to fire a gun. 
 Not a good thing for a first person shooter.
  
  Still with the controls, the game won't let you pause if you are either: a) doing anything, such 
 as moving or shooting, or b) getting shot. You have to be at an absolute standstill to simply pause 
 the game. It's amateurish programming.
  
  The difficulty between the two games varies. The original Far Cry has a punishing difficulty. There 
 seems to be little to no difference between easy and hard. On both settings enemies armed with 
 pistols hslf a screen away from you will hit you with stray shots and take away a third of your 
 damage. I'd expect something like this on hard, but on easy? Come on. The difficulty of the first 
 game is compounded by a lack of checkpoints. It's very frustrating to clear an area after trying 
 to get through it 10 different times, only to die from a random enemy armed with a pistol or a 
 simple machine gun and have to do the whole thing all over again from the beginning.
  
  Instincts, on the other hand, is ridiculously easy. After having difficulty with the main campaign, 
 I blew through Instincts without dying until the second-to-last level, when the difficulty suddenly 
 ramped up to come closer to the first game. It's as if the developers were criticised for making 
 it too hard, and then went to the other extreme. Something in the middle would have been nice.
 
  
  Finally, there are the graphics. While they might be okay for an XBox game, this is the 360 version 
 we're talking about here, and the graphics simply don't cut it. Even by XBox standards the graphics 
 aren't very good. One might argue that that's to be expected from a port; however, Half-Life 2 
 was also originally on XBox, and that has better graphics in the XBox version (let alone the 360 
 version) than the 360 version of this game does.
  
  The achievements, likewise, are a joke. Half of them are online multiplayer - which is laughable 
 since there is literally no one playing this online ever. As for the campaign achievements, they 
 are as bad as Perfect Dark Zero's. Beat the campaign? Great. You get 10 gamerpoints. It's incredibly 
 lame, which summarizes just about everything in this game.
  
  CONCLUSION
  
  Far Cry Instincts Predator is a game to be avoided at all costs. It is probably the worst 360 game 
 I've ever played (well, retail game, anyway) , and it is the second-worst shooter I've played (only 
 Pariah was worse) . Even fans of the genre should skip it; there are literally dozens of shooters 
 on the 360 which are far superior. This game is simply a waste of time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shadygeneral
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 27, 2008 3:23 am PT
Review:  This is a suprisingly good FPS game. For those who dont know, this was originaly released on the 
 Xbox as 2 seperate games. Farcry Instincts & Farcry Evolution. This 360 version tarts upthe graphics 
 (only slightly mind) & lands them both together so you basicaly get 2 games in one. Or 1 & half 
 games in 1 as Evolution is quite short & more like an expansion pack. Either way its good value. You 
 play a character called Jack Carver that gets shoved onto a tropical island & has to kill badguys 
 for reasons I cant quite remember. Needless to say the story isnt a particular highlight. 
  
  What is a highlight however, is the setting. Now this is an XBox game & it can be seen, especialy 
 when put next to the current gen FPS games. But that doesnt mean it isnt absolutely gorgeous in 
 places. Sure the leaves & bushes can look 2D & none of them move when you walk past, the character 
 models are pretty crude & the effects arent brilliant. But, just climb to the top of a hill, stop 
 for a second & look out. You'll see clear blue sky's, lovely greenery as far as the eye can see, 
 white sandy beeches & the most beautiful water ive ever seen in a game. The way the light bounces 
 off its light blue surface is a truly great site. It is really picturesque. Even just walking through 
 the jungle is a very pretty site, with light puncturing the shadows cast by the trees. Theres also 
 a suprrising amount of variety for a tropical jungle. One moment you'll be fighting in middle of 
 the forest, then navigating a city built on the trees & the next on a volcano. 
  
  The gameplay is pretty solid. It plays out predictably enough. You'll walk through the jungle to 
 a clearing & have to kill some bad guys/blow something up/switch something off, then move on to 
 the next clearing. The clearings are normaly huge though & you can tackle the enemies in a variety 
 of ways. Even trying to play stealthily works surprisingly well. Especialy for an FPS. But its 
 never forced on you which is a good thing. You can even set little traps. You can hook spikey branched 
 to tree barks, hide somewhere & throw a rock. The enemy will come & see what made the noise & SMACK! 
 The branch will snap back at him sending him flying. These work against you too though so remember 
 where you put them & keep an eye out for enemy ones. It is really quite difficukt though. I died 
 a hell of a lot of times on normal, but luckily the checkpoints are well placed so it never sends 
 you too far back.
  
  You get a compass telling you where the next objective is which is helpful as the size of the jungle 
 can be quite daunting. But it does play out in a linear way. Very rarely will you get lost as there 
 is always some subtle (& some not so subtle) ways the jungle tells you where to go. Theres a nice 
 selection of guns but the aiming can be a bit twitchy & sensitive. You'll get used to it though.
 
  
  Next we come onto something that will split people down the middle. You get powers in the game 
 as you become infected with something. At the tap of a button you'll be able to see in the dark, 
 run at twice the speed, smell enemies out & climb certain rock faces. This also brings with it 
 mutated enemies to fight later on too. Personaly I didnt mind this & found it a refreshing challenge. 
 I also liked the extra abilities & the gameplay changes they made to the general FPS formula. But 
 I know a few people that feel these parts let the game down hugely & stopped playing. 
  
  But if this is something that wouldnt bother you I really do recommend this game. Its not brilliant 
 but its certainly enjoyable. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TOOMAGA
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 6, 2008 12:13 pm PT
Review:  Having played this game to near death, completed both story lines and played endless online matches 
 I can clearly say, this is an awsome game. There are 2 story lines to the game, the second is unlocked 
 by completing the first. they are both filled with intence action, as you gain predator like powers 
 along the way in which you use to your advantage to climb trees, branches, smell the scent of blood 
 and mercenaries, a night vision, and the ability to go double your speed and jump higher. It has 
 a very good story line, and once you get into it, its hard to stop playing. The online play is 
 excellent, I have played endless matches of chaos (FFA) , steel the sample, predator, team deathmatch 
 and many more game modes. There are many realistic weapons and traps. there are also other pick 
 ups such as predator, flags, armour and heath. some of the weapons consist of, P90, (predator weapon) , 
 RPG, machine gun, sniper rifle, scout rifle, uzi, desert eagle, M15, blow darts, and many more. 
 The game also has an intence map maker. where you can spawn basically anything in the game you 
 want any where you want. this ranges from over 15 different types of trees, loads of small and 
 large brushes, weapons, pickups, vehicles and special items such as turrets, ladders and zip lines 
 that can be streched from one side of the map to the other.
  there is also a terrain edditor that comes in 3 forms, bump, raise, and another that will raise 
 the land to a given measurement. oh and not forgetting a paint tool. 
  The game also has many drivable vehicles shuch as quad bikes, pickup trucks, hover boats, gliders! 
 sampans. loads of different variations of other boats and trucks.
  
  overall I think this game is awsome. 
  +2 different stories
  +emence multiplayer with many 
 different game modes
  +Pro map maker!
  +Map Sharing
  +The game has many different setting and handicap options.
  +its just addictively fun
  +beautiful 
 tropical enviroment which will blow you away.
  -can get glitchy online 
  -some bits get frustrating, not many though
  
  despite many other peoples views on this game, 
 i think it is awsome and i would recomend investing in it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ikavnieks
Rating: 5.5
Date: Sep 26, 2008 3:47 pm PT
Review:  This game is last gen standards, the graphics are the worst I have seen of the xbox 360, Far Cry 
 2 will no doubtly be much better, but ugh, this game, the controls are so clunky, multiplayer is 
 glitchy and laggy... Please don't buy this game for the 360... Although it does have an awesome 
 map editor, and hey, I got a little enjoyment out of it. All in all I reckon i gave this game a 
 fair rating, is pretty bad in my opinion, but i did get some fun out of it in the end,
  
  I have to say, the map editor is amazingly fun and simple to use, create any map you want, shame 
 you cannot add AI now that would be really good.
  
  I guess it is slightly better than the original xbox version, you might aswell try to pick it up 
 cheap if you can.
  
  Mediocre attempt at a game, could have been much better, had the potential to be much better, heres 
 to Farcry 2! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dr_Schwartz
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 10, 2009 3:42 pm PT
Review:  The Plot:
  
  Far Cry is a action/adventure game that barrows elements from the storys like "The Most Dangerous 
 Game" and movies like Predator. Here you play as Jack Carver, a boat man with a shady past whose 
 just trying to stay out of trouble and earn his keep. But trouble has a nasty way of following 
 him around. While showing a tourist the sights of the tropics, two unmarked helicopters come and 
 blow his boat to hell. Jack is now trapped on an island infested with brutal mercenaries and henchmen 
 that are out to get him. The hunt is on. Your objective: get out of there in one piece. However 
 it may not be as simple as all that, as this island is home to a mad scientist who's got something 
 special in mind for you.
  
  
  The Pros:
  
  Here are some of the games memorable qualities. Since you're pitted against an entire private army 
 and then some, it makes sense you have some heavy-duty toys to play with. Far Cry has pretty good 
 variety of weapons: you get everything from various pistols and submachine guns to long-range recon 
 rifles and heavy machine guns. The game has a great sound, this is definitely one to play on the 
 surround sound. It also has terrific voice talent from all the characters, especially by the hero 
 Jack, who's voiced by actor Stephen Dorff (he played Frost in Blade) . The controls are very comfortable; 
 if you played the Halo games, you'll feel right at home. There are usually two ways to approach 
 a situation: you could go in using stealth tactics, play sneaky by stalking your targets silently 
 and setting booby traps. OR if you're feeling a little rambunctious, you go with what I call "Rambo 
 tactics", which basically means taking everybody out the old fashion way with a gun in each hand. 
 The multiplayer is good, but it really stands out when online. The thing I loved the most was the 
 inclusion of a second story mode, so there's alot in this package to keep any fan of shooting games 
 busy for a while. br / 
  
  
  The Cons:
  
  These are the games least admirable qualities. One of the biggest problems with Far Cry - Instincts: 
 Predator is that if you played the original Xbox games, there really isn't much point in playing 
 this one, since they're virtually identical. The graphics aren't really up to 360 standards, the 
 game looks almost like the original but with a fresh coat of paint. Another issue I had was with 
 the AI: For the most part the bad guys can be smart, but sometimes they'll do stupid things like 
 run right up to you or right past you. If you're lucky, every now and then one of the soldiers 
 will end up killing their own men by accidently misthrowing a grenade. 
  
  
  The Overall:
  
  While it's not perfect a perfect game, Far Cry - Instincts: Predator is a shooter 
 certainly worth the price of admission for anyone looking for something challenging and fastpaced. 
 Plus you can't go wrong with a game that's actually two games for the price of one.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Supaza
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 17, 2008 6:59 am PT
Review:  This game bombed on the Xbox 360 and for the silliest reasons. While the game is called Farcry, 
 gamers should not mistake this for a console version of the PC game. Farcry is the PC game whereas 
 Farcry instincts, Farcry Instincts Evolution and Farcry Instincts: Predator are all pretty similar 
 console games. At this point it should be said that I have played all. All the console games are 
 based off the PC original, but like films are sometimes based on books they are very different. 
 That said, I am reviewing Farcry Instincts: Predator and not the original game. 
  Farcry Instincts: Predator is a game based off the original Farcry and a compilation of the two 
 previous Xbox games Farcry Instincts and Instincts Predator. In effect, Farcry Instincts Predator 
 is the Xbox 360 version of the two Xbox titles revamped and slightly improved much like Burnout 
 Revenge was released on both Xbox and Xbox 360 simultaneously. It's all a bit complicated really. 
 
  Farcry Instincts Predator is down to basics, a pretty good shooter and has a considerable amount 
 of content. The single player campaign has the original Farcry Instincts and it's expansion "Evolution" 
 which a both long and entertaining. That said, the campaigns do not contain the free roam element 
 seen in it's PC sibling, the game is essentially a linear Xbox title with revamped graphics for 
 the next gen. Its not a next gen game, it is however a good game. This is where the game did badly 
 in that everyone was expecting an amazing new farcry and when Ubisoft simply re-released the original 
 but redone, no-one was happy. All it seems, but me. The story has you taking control of Jack Carver, 
 an ex-marine who retired from war on his small fishing boat somewhere in the tropics. He is then 
 hired as a boat man to take a journalist (who is an undercover agent) to take photos of some wrecked 
 ships off the coast of some of the nearby tropical islands. Only once in the vicinity of the islands, 
 Carver is attacked my mercs who attempt to capture him. From then onwards you are on the run, sneaking 
 through the jungle and tropical paradise laying traps and taking out your enemies as stealthily 
 as possible. The opening part of the game has plenty of stealth elements as well and some run and 
 gun and driving modes. You can hop into hum-vees, boats, jet skis and even hang gliders. About 
 one third into the game Carver gets captured while seeking to find his client, the journalist. 
 Here he is tampered with and experiments are done on him which basically give him animal senses. 
 You wake up from surgery with the ability to run super fast, jump extra high, and a sense of smell 
 that allows you to track your enemies through the forest. At this stage in the game Carver seeks 
 revenge and the hunter becomes the hunted. You decide to get revenge on the people who did these 
 experiments on you and subsequently tear up and down the tropical forest ripping your opponents 
 to shreds in search of the culprits. The next few levels consist of a basically duck hunting. You 
 stamp around the jungle reeking havoc until you start finding more victims of the crazy scientists 
 experiments. So begins the final third of the game. 
  After finding more clues as to the whereabouts of your target, you begin working your way further 
 inland, away from the tropical beaches and forests and into more dark and gritty parts of the forest. 
 The final third of the game takes place in laboratories and industrial parks dotted around the 
 jungle. You will be required to drive, fly, float or swim between them, battling zombie like freaks 
 and soldiers who've also been tampered with and altered. This is probably where the game loses 
 it's fun a little. The end of the game slips into the classic old routine of zombie pumping and 
 other elements of the horror genre. By the end of Farcry Instincts, you'll be fighting large beasts, 
 crazy zombie freaks with strength greater than yours, only armed with bazookas. You'll also have 
 completely moved from the lush forests to a desolate and deserved volcano littered with baddies. 
 It's not quite so much fun then. 
  After completing the first instalment, there is the expansion game, Farcry Instincts: Evolution 
 which carries on from the end of the first story. This time, you are once again enlisted by a pretty 
 woman to do their bidding. After hooking up with this woman at a bar, she asks you assistance in 
 a deal that's going down on another island. Once again you agree, insisting that you don't want 
 to get involved in anything more than a run. No shooting and no risks. Just as the first story, 
 this goes to pot and you are forced on the run again, but this time with slightly more purpose. 
 Having experience with mercs in the jungle before, the first half of the game is similar to the 
 first game where you trek around blowing things up and beating up your enemies. You've still got 
 your super powers which make the game a whole lot more interesting. You've also got a large number 
 of new weapons and vehicles at your disposal, all of which are fun to use, easy to control (though 
 it is in 1st person) and sound good. After not much digging around you discover that the people 
 causing the issues on the island are in fact more men, like yourself, doctored and engineered to 
 be super-animal-men. They go about baiting and challenging you and eventually force you to hunt 
 them down and wipe them out. So the story takes another twist whereby you move deep into the jungle, 
 hunting down more freaks, this time with a blow pipe, or pipe bombs, maybe a Molotov cocktail. 
 Freak on Freak battles are quite intense as you're skills are matched in the physical terms which 
 requires the player to use his own skill in out manoeuvring, out shooting, and out jumping his 
 opponents. This second story will lead you through much more interesting environments for lush 
 rivers to shanty towns and doesn't have quite so dark an ending as the first instalment. It is 
 an expansion, so its short but sweet.
  Thats all the campaign, which is actually quite a lot and is very enjoyable as long as you approach 
 it as a very good Xbox game, not a really bad Xbox360 game (graphics, AI etc are not the most amazing) . 
 After your finished with the main story, there is still much to do with the multiplayer and the 
 extensive map editor, the combination of which is incredible. The map editor is the best i've ever 
 seen. Given a large square of water, you can then pretty much build whatever type of map you want 
 from there. You can fill in the water to make land, then bumps as high as you want so as to make 
 a hilly level. Of, make small bumps and beaches and you have a beach level. Do whatever you want. 
 I made hundred of maps that varied from mountains, volcanoes, river valleys, oasis', industrial 
 factories, shanty towns and tree-top towns. You can populate your map with a large number of different 
 vegetation types so you can have a forest should you chose to make one. You also have a number 
 of buildings, walkways, ladders, sniper towers and more you can throw down to play with. Once you've 
 created your map of choice, lay down roads, paths, vehicles, weapons, health, spawn points, and 
 bases. Then with the touch of a button, jump in and test it all out. Don't like something, jump 
 out and change it. Once you're happy, change the time of day and ambient sound effects to go along 
 with it. Overall, it truly is the best map editor I've ever seen and has yet to be matched by any 
 other game. Only Farcry 2 will match this. 
  So once you've spent a day making and editing a map, you can save it and name it then take it online 
 with your friends. The multiplayer has the basic layout from capture the flag to regular death 
 match. All of these take place in preloaded maps on the game, or should you choose to do so, player 
 made maps. Play on other peoples maps, or share your own. Its awesome fun. The map editor also 
 allows you to create maps perfect for 4 player offline games, catering to whatever you want to 
 play. Want a water level to play with your friends when they come over, build one and the next 
 time their round, bash each other up on it. It's as simple as that and took me a good year at least 
 to get bored of. 
  In conclusion then, Farcry Instincts: Predator has more than meets the eye, and deserves more credit 
 than it got. Its big, its fun, and although its not the most complex and "next gen" game out there, 
 its worth a play through. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: spunky_chrispi
Rating: 4
Date: Jul 28, 2008 5:57 pm PT
Review:  There is a significant delay from when you move the aim stick and when the reticle moves on the 
 screen. I can't believe a game of this caliber would be released with unusable controls like this. 
 This an FPS! You can't have aim delays in an FPS!!! Don't waste your money.
  
  There is a significant delay from when you move the aim stick and when the reticle moves on the 
 screen. I can't believe a game of this caliber would be released with unusable controls like this. 
 This an FPS! You can't have aim delays in an FPS!!! Don't waste your money.
  
  There is a significant delay from when you move the aim stick and when the reticle moves on the 
 screen. I can't believe a game of this caliber would be released with unusable controls like this. 
 This an FPS! You can't have aim delays in an FPS!!! Don't waste your money.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: bakerskate21
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 27, 2008 9:09 pm PT
Review:  Ok so if you have the money and if you can still find this game then you should probably pick this 
 bad boy up. I really don't like the campaign mode. The campaign mode seems very dull and lifeless. 
 The levels all seem the same and well you lay down, shoot people, run, shoot people, finish the 
 level. REPEAT. Now the mutiplayer is great. I love playing with my friends when they come over 
 to my house. I tried it on live one time and well... NOBODY was on. Im not sure why but there wasn't 
 a single person on live. Anyways the top feature is definitley the map maker. You can really make 
 a paridise shootout or a large scale forest shooter. Ive made many maps and ive learned that you 
 really need to take your time making these maps. Anyways, I give this game and 8.5 out of ten. 
 I would give it a ten but the capaign mode took away the rest of the rating. Hope this helped. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lemmy2
Rating: 4.5
Date: Jul 18, 2008 8:42 am PT
Review:  I'm still playing the game. The dated graphics don't bother me, it's about gameplay not graphics. 
 When you first start the game it feels really fresh, I liked setting traps, I liked the option 
 of stealth. However, I still have yet to stab someone n the back since the tutorial. Setting traps 
 seems useless once you start getting into the game, because stealth is so frustrating ... why bother! 
 If you so much as even russel the leaves why moving through the brush, it alerts everyone. Trying 
 to remain unseen hoping they will eventually calm down and give up their search proves futile, 
 because once the troops are riled they don't settle down..... might as well just attack.. 
  
  I found it annoying that as soon as you throw a gernade one enemy shouts "Grenade!" Even though 
 it's still in teh air, and they didn't see it coming because they weren't even looking in your 
 direction! Happens everytime! Grenades aren't as useful as they should be. Enemies spawn from places 
 you just cleared out...... having exploding mutants spawn five feet from you sucks! 
  
  Another bad featrure is the auto saves, which feel appropriate at times, but will have you frustrated 
 wondering where they are at other times, especially during certain difficult times that will cause 
 you to repeat several times due to death. And the fact that the enemy can always spot you even 
 when you're hiding in the bushes also ruins the stealth aspect further. 
  
  This games just feels unbalanced and cheap sometimes and after awhile the environments start to 
 look the same. Ambushs are obvious, you can always tell before you even enter an area that it's 
 an area that you'll have to end up fighting for your life.... it's not sublte! This has got to be 
 one of the longest FPS i've played since REturn to Castle Wolvenstien, but unlike RTCW which I 
 felt was balance and the levels never felt the same, most of the levels in this game have a sameness 
 to them...... doens't deserve the high rating it has gained.
  
  Okay so I've edited my review. I played the game alot more, although I could only play this game 
 10 mins. at a time before getting annoyed with it. After my third boss battle, which was the same 
 big ugly mutant who swats barrels at you I'd decided I'd had enough. The game is so redundant that 
 it even recycles bosses..... endless stretches of jungle terrain on every level started to make 
 the levels indistinguishable. It was nice when I didthe mine level, at least it broke up the monotony. 
 Anyway I decided to trade teh game in for a small $3 off... wow!! This game tortured m I wanted 
 to keep playing it because there are moments I really enjoy it, but they became outwieghed byt 
 the moments I didn't. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: B-boy
Rating: 10
Date: May 26, 2008 12:25 am PT
Review:  What I like about this is leith about this game is game is very long, it took me 2 weeks to finish 
 this awesome, game it doest have repetive game play, sometimes you sniping some you driving vehicles, 
 sometimes you hideing mode, this diffent types of mode in role in one game, the a. i. is not stupid 
 this game will keep on edge.\
  Thing I dont like about the xbox port, I whish it build from xbox 360 hardware, the graphic are 
 not bad you have hdtv monitor, the graphic is not bad the game is coloful and the water effects 
 the waves.
  This game is better the pc version, has lot action, I dont have xbox live so I dont have idea about 
 the gameplay. online mode This dics have two game evulution and inticsts this game will keep busy 
 for two weeks, if you are fan of fps or action game get this game.
  I can't wait for far cry 2 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vrygar777
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 11, 2008 11:42 pm PT
Review:  This is a remake of instincts from the xbox but includes and additional story. The additional story 
 isnt all that engaging, but does give you achievement points for beating it! This games biggest 
 plus is the map editor. Although it doesnt have that many options for decorations, you can make 
 practically any place you can think of (besides "there", yeah you know what i'm talking about) . 
 The story is good, but be prepared to here a little line like this a lot.
  Soldier A: Did you see him? He went in there!!!
  Soldier B: Hey shut the H#& UP DUMB@$$
  Soldier 
 A:*Looks around nervously* Dont F&@K with me
  Soldier B:*Dies a painful Death and falls to ground*
  Yes I'm not that detailed but it does go 
 a lot like that most of the time. If your the kind that likes to shoot people and talk $h! t all 
 the time then this game is up your ally.
  The games audio and video visuals are also not really up to date, but its still a pretty good game, 
 if only for the map editor. Or achievement points.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DBZ180
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 3, 2008 8:29 pm PT
Review:  FarCry Instincs Predator is a very cool game, and is fun to play. The game takes place on an island 
 that is populated by mercenaries. You play the role of Jack Carver, a former navy merine. Along 
 the way of the story Jack Carver gets injected by the enemy (mercenaries) after that he gets these 
 intense farrow powers, such as super speed, and super strength. The multiplayer that is featured 
 in the game is fun to play, it's fun to control the vehicle's and set traps. The graphics in FarCry 
 Instincts Predator are great looking and realistic. 
  Also for the controls, are easy to use and to remember. The only time the controls might be hard 
 is when you are driving the vehicle's. 
  
  OVERALL 9.5: FarCry is a great shooter for the Xbox 360, is very fun and is highly addicting when 
 playing the story. I would definitly recommend it to add it to your Xbox 360 game collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ash2X
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 3, 2008 10:11 am PT
Review:  The Good:
  +Great overall Gameplay
  +Not much but great scripted cutscenes
  +Original Atmosphere
  +2 Games in 1 who are already somthing worth as single games
  +Great 
 Sound
  +Great Amount of Time to spend with for a FPS
  +Yes, even the german PAL-Version is uncut too!
  
  The Bad:
  -The Graphics did get a lift, but 
 seriously I dont really see it that much
  -Most selfmade Maps are crappy
  -Nothing really new
  
  First off, I played both FCIs on XBox, but since I had a little bug with 
 the saving, I never finished them. And since this one was aviable at a Budget-Price it was worth 
 every cent.
  
  The Graphics:
  They look good, but since the game has its slowdowns or moments the game freezes a bit even the 
 small lifts they are almost a negative thing. Plus I cant really see the differences. On a PC-Screen 
 or HD-TV (I tested both) it looks cleaner, but its not really a major improvement.
  
  The Sound:
  Fitting Soundtrack, good 5.1-Mix and a good Voice-Cast.... well some Magazines described 
 FCIs Sound as the best on XBox so I think that says all.
  
  The Gameplay:
  Even if there are some little issues with the Framerate sometimes, it doesnt affect the Gameplay. The 
 Auto-Target helps almost a bit too much, but since you loose Energy sometimes almost faster then 
 you can look its fitting.
  The great Level-Design and the possibility to choose the way makes it hard NOT to enjoy the game. After 
 all it wasnt one of the best XBox FPS.
  While the 1st introduces your new abilitys, I was really impressed how the 2nd Part made use of 
 it.
  The Game basics are a bit stealth, a lot of shooting and a few chases that whould make Mr. Bond 
 look a bit laughable. There is almost no time to take a breath in hours!
  The Multiplayer is good too. It isnt well visited anymore and most self-made Maps are not really 
 good, but fun to play if you got egnough people.
  
  Only the Ending was a disappointment, but since you had a great time with the game and its Story 
 until that point it doesnt matter that much anyway.
  Its really worth playing and both together are one of the longest "Action-Movies" you can get 
 until today.
  
  So...:
  If you never played FarCry Instincts its time to do it. Its possible to get it pretty cheap and 
 even without XBL you got more then egnough to do and enjoy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KOKASportugal
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 23, 2008 4:51 pm PT
Review:  nao deixa de ser um remake de um jogo de 2005 pra xbox, mas far cry instincts predator  sem duvida 
 uma boa experiencia para quem ainda nao jogou o original. graficos que nos deixam  
 inteligencia artificial dos inimigos nao  muito boa mas tambem nao  muito m. razovel. far cry 
 instincts predator e a meu ver melhor que o original far cry para pc. feral instincts, feral atacks, feral 
 run, etc, isso torna um jogo diferente do far cry original mas ao mesmo tempo um ambiente identico. tem 
 uma boa e vasta gama de armas, granadas, minas e at armadilhas nas arvores. a versao predator tem 
 no mesmo disco as 2 versoes da original xbox. instincts e evolution. far cry instincts predator  
 um do meu top 10 xbox360 e a versao instincts um do meu top 3 xbox. um jogo a nao perder. sem duvida 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lilman5100
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 2, 2008 2:29 pm PT
Review:  Ive played the first two farcrys for XBOX when they first came out and it was a thrilling game 
 to play... well when i heard that it was going to come out for the XBOX 360 i got exciting and told 
 myself i had to buy it and i did. Well i thought they would add more stuff, rather then keeping 
 it moderatly the same... however i like the fact that the graphics where enhanced however, i dont 
 believe they were enhanced that much. It is rather fun on multliplayer but when it comes to the 
 campaign its just same ol stuff, which is fine because it was entertaining to play again but it 
 was boring because i had seen it before, so my advice to players who wish to play this is only 
 buy it if you have not played the first two but if you wish to buy, then i hope there is more than 
 one playing because thats all the fun youll have... However, the game is fun! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MickaelJulliard
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 31, 2007 2:42 pm PT
Review:  I first played this game in October round about i think, yes, October Half Term, i LOVED it, Map 
 making and being able to share it with other people on an online playlist!!!
  
  Please if you know any other games of this sort tell me.
  
  With so much to do, including two 
 story modes to complete! and MAP MAKING! the fun never stops, you can have an amazing Urban City 
 world, or a dark scary Island Jungle, secret bases in the tree tops!
  
  Or maybe try and duplicate the Oil Rig from MGS2 like i did on the original Xbox verision!
  
 
  There are so many great battle arenas out there, and even amazing Maps to complete, and wicked 
 rides, like Rollercoasters and loads more! Don't forget an amazing race track, with twisty corners 
 and narrow streets!
  
  So come on and join the amazing gaming sensation! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XenoGearZ_XZ
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 27, 2007 2:02 pm PT
Review:  I have this game and i can say that the campaign is very repetative, alot of the graphics are quite 
 good, especially the Water..... to be able to build ur own maps and play online with them or play 
 other players maps gives this game online re-play value. The campain gets very boring at times, 
 sometimes some suspence, but at most times... boring...... get this game for multoplayer if u like 
 online FPS games. I need 100 words to finish this paragraph which sucks, so.... guns are great...... 
 when u talk on ur character you will see his mouth moving, making Obsticle courses on this game 
 takes along time to build and are very fun to test out. i will see you guys online if u wish to 
 play.. my gamertag is XenoGearZ XZ . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: savetehhaloz
Rating: 4.5
Date: Dec 5, 2007 12:41 pm PT
Review:  Far Cry... one of the best games... for the PC. This series has spread to the Xbox consoles and 
 has been quiet popular.. but I don't know why. This is the first Far Cry game on the Xbox 360, 
 and I was pretty excited that it would take after the original experiences I had. The game is amazing 
 in the terms of water... it is beatiful. But try actually PLAYING the game and you'll see the game's 
 major problem; the aim and look system is choppy and it will give you an outright headache. Thats 
 right folks; choppy. Instead of fighting pirates and rebels in the singleplayer and other folks 
 on multiplayer, I was constantly fighting with the controls. To add to that, some of the character 
 models are terrible (some textures as well) and the MP5 model looks terrible (Counter Strike 1.6 
 has a better MP5 model) . This however is not a problem, the controls however, are. 
  This is not to say that Far Cry is not a bad game and concept, the series is cool (amazing island 
 visuals) but this game does not cut it. Even though its packaged with two games for the price of 
 one, this game is not recommended. Go back to the original Far Cry game (which is now available 
 for free from Ubisoft) for your Jack Carver fix. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lilhawkkid182
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 28, 2007 6:00 pm PT
Review:  When I got my Xbox 360 Far Cry Instincts Predator was one of the first games I got. I was a huge 
 fan of the original on the PC that I figured that there was no way that I could be let down from 
 this title. On the PC Far Cry was known for its stunning visuals, amazing enemy AI, and a story 
 that makes you feel like you are in a movie. Lets see how they compare shall we? Well in the Xbox 
 360 you get two single player games, decent graphics, and awesome multiplayer. 
  
  The two single player campaigns were released seperatley on the original Xbox so it may see like 
 you are getting a good deal. The thing is that these games show their age as you find things gong 
 wrong that you would not find in newer shooters. In fact there is not much as far as updates go. 
 Seeing as how the original PC and Xbox game looked stunning, there really has not been much of 
 a graphical update, so although the game still looks good, you can tell that it is no-where near 
 the quality that it should be seeing as how it is an Xbox 360 game. 
  
  Another reason why fans of the original Far Cry game on the PC might not like this game is the 
 story. Because there is simply not enough new stuff to do in this game that would make you want 
 to play all the way through both campaigns. Plus if you played any of these games on the original 
 Xbox you might as well not even have a thought about purchasing these games because you will be 
 even more disappointed.
  
  Well what about the multiplayer? Well the multiplayer portion of this game is hands down the best 
 thing about it. The multiplayer takes everything from the two Xbox games and puts them together 
 for one big multiplayer component. So really it is more like three games in one. The fact that 
 you can play this game split screen is nice, since it seems like some publishers forget about the 
 people without Xbox Live or just want to have some living room fun with their friends. The multiplayer 
 is the best part of this game hands down, but with games like GRAW, Call of Duty 2,3, and 4, and 
 Rainbow Six Vegas it is not enough to make the game worth a purchase alone, seeing as how those 
 games mentioned about also have amazing single player games. If you are completely new to Far Cry 
 that is the only way I can reccomend a purchase, other than that a rental should do just fine. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CalibusTheCrab
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 14, 2007 11:57 am PT
Review:  Far Cry Instincts Predator is a good getaway from Halo and it even allows you to create your own 
 Level! Far Cry's story is highly addictave and really well done with the A. I. The Graphics were 
 amazing when it came on the 360 but if you get this game a couple years later from launch, You 
 could be a bit disapointed if you were looking for graphics.
  Far Cry's multiplayer has been so much fun to play, You can customise your character (not much 
 but its still good!) , You can create your own map to suit your own game modes or make an unfair 
 advantage. Overall Far Cry is an amazing game to come on the 360 and I hope there will be a sequel. 
 
  PS: They could do with some download content too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: biggy887766
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 30, 2007 7:00 pm PT
Review:  If you want to invent your own maps and then take them online to show them off, get this game. 
 The map editor is great and is so easy to use. The possibilities are endless on the editor. You 
 can put hangliders, Atv's, cars, and trucks almost anywhere in the map. As for regular deathmatch 
 multiplayer, it is highly addictive. The Game isn't really all that violent even though it has 
 a M rating. The only thing with it is the main character likes to cuss... a lot.... I think if you 
 are looking for a solid FPS you should definately go for this game. If you are looking for more 
 competitive multiplayer, I would suggest halo 2 or call of duty 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ivory_soul
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 29, 2007 7:41 pm PT
Review:  The Good: Two Far Crys in one, some nice visual effects, great stealth gameplay, great voice work, 
 amazing ambiance makes you feel like you're really there, Feral abilities are interesting, map 
 builder is a nice feature, great online play
  The Bad: Story is bland, graphics feel to old, game starts to fall apart 3/4 through, not enough 
 weapons, AI can be iffy sometimes
  
  Far Cry looked pretty damn sweet back in the day but now since the next-generation has rolled along 
 Far Cry can look pretty ugly in some places. Yes it was one of the only games that pushed the Xbox 
 beyond it's limits but now that the Instincts games are on 360 there's not much of an upgrade. 
 Predator, in terms of visuals, is just a slight upgrade from the Xbox versions. It seems Ubisoft 
 just added a bit of bump mapping here and there and that's it. Instincts seems very realistic and 
 the guerrilla warfare was implemented really well here except when you get half way it falls apart 
 and becomes your typical run-n-gun shooter. I rented this and I just stopped playing about 75% 
 through the Instincts story since Evolution was just the same but with the second part of the story 
 and slightly better visuals. The story isn't anything really special here either and it's kind 
 of messy and hard to follow. The main attraction to Instincts though is the Feral Senses which 
 gives you super human strength and the ability to see in the dark and sense smells. While these 
 are great and all they don't make the game much better. You can set traps on trees and plant claymore 
 mines which is also why the stealth in this game is just so awesome. The best part about this game 
 though is the multiplayer. I never got a chance to try it but if it's anything like the PC version 
 then it would be wonderful. You can make your own maps and everything and that's a big plus but 
 it doesn't hinder the fact that this game feels to much from 2003. If you have the PC version then 
 just stick to that and wait for Crysis and Far Cry 2 but if you don't then this would be a good 
 bargain bin pick-up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sam_2006
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 1, 2007 7:45 pm PT
Review:  Farcry was a great game on PC when it came out about three years ago and I had sweet time playing 
 it on my PC, afterwards Farcry instinct predator came out for the xbox and later on the xbox360 
 !! sounds great for me and befored I even had a xbox360, I was looking forward to playing it on 
 a nextgen console like the 360, When i got this game I was so excited as I'd had plenty of pleasure 
 playing the original one on PC , however I did not expect it to let me down. I played it and was 
 quite happy with some aspects, and let down by others and disgusted with a few others !! Graphics 
 : I was hoping for better graphics and what I realized did not come off that good in fact, ya the 
 water is well rendered and there are some sweet graphical aspects but over all, I still felt I 
 was playing on an old generation machine, especially at certain moments !! I know the x360 can 
 do a lot better than that ... I wasn't really that satisfied although the game looks good overall 
 Gameplay sucked because of enemies AI and some lame issues with the control system; first I found 
 it pretty challenging to get a fine shot and the aiming system drove me crazy , though i'm great 
 with FPS games and I have payed a lot of them in my life both with a controler or a mouse. second, 
 the enemies are so dumb and sometimes painfully smart, or may be stupidly smart because they can 
 spot you when you're 5 or 6 miles away, even when ducking behind a tree or a rock , they still 
 can see you you and shoot at you !! I mean comooooooooooon that's lame !! not only that, they're 
 too damn hard to take out and you need a whole bunch of amunition for each one ! however, they're 
 very talented at taking you out in a few seconds, espcially that the health system sucks too. I 
 felt that the enemy AI is totally unbalanced !! well there are some new stuff like holding tow 
 pistols or submachnie guns at a time which looks good but does nothing good since you're still 
 gonna be overpowered by your enemies !! and the stealth mechanisms are so aweful ! in fact you 
 should struggle to death in order to sneak up on an enemy since they can spot you ( or smell u 
 may be) so easily .. i don't even know why they've put a stealth missions in there in first place 
 !! the story; I don't care about it because no matter how good it might be, still the gameplay 
 can spoil it for you, but the game is painfully long
  
  I don't know how to praise this game as it has so little to it that could be praised and I was 
 definitely let down by it, though I had some travial fun every once in a while .... anyways, I 
 hope FARCry 2 will correct all this and bring back the game we all enjoyed once I gave this game 
 a 7/10 because I actually had some fun in the beautiful island of paradise and that's almost all 
 I loved about this game , in fact ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarkPhoenix142
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 25, 2007 11:46 pm PT
Review:  Personal Comment:
  I never played the original Far Cry but I have watched videos about it. But when I heard my friend 
 had gotten this, I just had to play it. I liked it alot, and when he just handed it to me saying 
 I could have it I almost couldn't do it. The fact is I love the way Far Cry is designed.
  
  Review:
  When you start FC Instincts you'll notice that for such an early game in the 360's launch 
 it still looks good. The graphics look great and don't believe the stupid reviewers who say, Oh 
 the characters look blocky and they have no expression. its all lies. Another thing you'll notice 
 is that enemies are cheap! A shot from a pistol with out armor will take about 25 health, but that's 
 forgivable. Especially after you jump online with this **** The online play is really great. Oh! 
 I almost forgot to mention the Level designer. You can make very complex battle maps, Steal the 
 sample maps, and even Mazes and Race Tracks. There are so many players online at one time so needless 
 to say, you won't be alone on the server. The fighting while online is very cool. Many things can 
 be used to dispose of opposing team members. Tree snares, Claymores, Vehicles, and even Feral Powers. 
 If you get lucky enough, or know where it is instinctively, to find the Predator Power-up you'll 
 be able to jump literally over buildings and kill opponents with one hit. The Multi-Player definitely 
 out-shines the single player. Although with the single player you actually get 2 games. But they 
 still don't compare to the wonderful Multi-Player.
  
  Conclusion:
  If you're looking for a great Multi-Player game, definitely pick this one up.
  
  Pros: Good 
 Graphics, Great amount of customization in level creator, One of the best Multi-Player experiences 
 you'll play, You get 2 games to play through.
  
  Cons: Enemies can be rather cheap, The difficulty of the game (even at Rookie) will challenge even 
 hardened veterans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: llTylerll
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 21, 2007 11:26 am PT
Review:  When I fianally bought this game for the 360 it felt good knowing ill always have a trustworthy 
 game for online and two single player campaigns seeing how i rented this game for original xbox 
 4 times.  
 FarCryFarCryFarCry FarCryFarCryFarCry FarCryFarCryFarCry FarCryFarCryFarCry FarCryFarCryFarCry 
 FarCryFarCryFarCry  FarCryFarCryFarCry FarCryFarCryFarCry FarCryFarCryFarCry 
 FarCryFarCryFarCry FarCryFarCryFarCry FarCryFarCryFarCry FarCryFarCryFarCry FarCryFarCryFarCry 
 Come on i should be passed a hundred words damn FarCryFarCryFarCry FarCryFarCryFarCry FarCryFarCryFarCry 
 FarCryFarCryFarCry FarCryFarCryFarCry FarCryFarCryFarCry FarCryFarCryFarCry FarCryFarCryFarCry 
 FarCryFarCryFarCry aldaldsfd d df fg grg gr grg r rg ggrg g g rg r g r r g rg rg rg rg g rg rg 
 g rg rgg g g rg gg 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nutta27
Rating: 3
Date: Aug 21, 2007 10:47 am PT
Review:  Far Cry instincs Predator is a first person shooter which originated on the pc.
  
  The Story starts with you taking a journalist on a tour of an island, she shortly takes of on one 
 of your jet skis and your boat in fires at, as you take refuge on the island a man talks to you 
 via a walkie talke. The man asks you to resue the journalist and from their on you encounter scientific 
 experiments and plenty of guirillas (not the animals) .
  
  The Gameplay is very mediocer, it is your basic first person shooter and really never brings nothing 
 new to the genre, even when you do get the predator powers. The game sees you kill what seems to 
 be an endless amount of terrorists with a very limited ammout of ammo. This game is very inferior 
 to the pc version, the only similarity is see is the characters name and that you are in a jungle. 
 I did like the trap setting element though, its pretty fun setting a trap and attacting teh etention 
 of a near by bad guy to then see him get mangled up. The Guns are also your basic fps guns, in 
 my opinion they feel and sound a little weak takinhg 6 or 7 shots in the body to take a man down. 
 Another minus with this game is the health system, first you take damage very easily and alot and 
 also your health does not recharge you have to use medi pacs, i thought we had got rid of teh old 
 system with Halo but i guess not. The controls are your basic fps controls, nothing really new.
 
  
  The game looks bad, that is really all you can say. It looks more like an original xbox game than 
 one for the Xbox 360. I would not reccomend this game to anyone, i found it no fun at all. The 
 positive elements of this game are very thin, the few positives i did see were the trap element, 
 is new and also very fun and the game is a good length (around 10 hrs for instincs and 5 or 6 for 
 predator) but that does become a negative when you take into account the poor gameplay.
  The main flaws in this game in my opinion are bad guys pretty hard to kill, a little slow paced 
 and dull and very bad visuals. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SeanReuben
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 9, 2007 1:31 am PT
Review:  Farcry xbox does all the right things and has the backbone of the pc game, but the control scheme 
 just doesnt cut it, the mouse and keyboard much smoother. the xbox version seems more toned down, 
 even though the island looks just as gorgeous and beautiful. the enemies don't look like scary 
 grunts and they dont exhibit ragdoll physics and tumble everywhere when you shoot them down. i 
 like the same tactics like sneaking and ambushing enemies while hidden in bushes, but the levels 
 seem more linear and less choices are offerred in some places on how to approach the stage. the 
 xbox version is different progression from pc and perplexing for that i thought i was playing a 
 different story. there's more shooting and less sneaking though and less suspense. the framerate 
 is 30fps but my pc version can go to a smooth 60 fps and so that loses some minor points for me. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: YONMAC
Rating: 7.8
Date: Aug 5, 2007 10:28 pm PT
Review:  Far Cry is one of the greatest first person shooters I have ever played on the Xbox 360. It has 
 two great storylines, the first of which leans more toward the horror side. Basically if you combine 
 Halo and Quake your end result would be Far Cry. There are so many pro's to this game from the 
 two storylines, the map editor, and the fantastic multiplayer. I have little to say about the cons 
 to this game except 3 things. The first is the graphics. These are absolutely abysmal. Worst I 
 have seen on a 360 yet. The second is no co-op. This game doesn't need co-op but it would certainly 
 help in the first storyline on higher difficulty levels. And the third is the custom made maps. 
 Overall it's a good thing except on Xbox Live. Mostly everybody hosts a game with a custom made 
 map so you have to wait forever to get into a lobby because you have to download everyone's custom 
 made map. But overall it's a decent game if graphics aren't that important to you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ChrisBoi17
Rating: 8.9
Date: Aug 4, 2007 8:09 am PT
Review:  Farcry Instincts Predator is a brillant creation by Ubisoft. You play as Jack Carver, who is currently 
 being pursued by an elite force of mercenaries on a remote tropical island, you will have to put 
 your survival skills to the test in this brilliant action/adventure thriller that you simply wont 
 wanna miss. You get to unleash the best within you with your new and improved feral abilities to 
 become the ultimate predator. The environment stretches for miles with a great texture and awesome 
 realistic graphics. As you go through the game you will come across rebel pirates and feral warriors 
 but use your very own methods of attack by land, sea or air this game is simply a must play/own 
 game it really is a great survivor with a brilliant storyline to go with it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gunnerkidd
Rating: 6.3
Date: Jul 25, 2007 8:18 pm PT
Review:  I enjoyed this game for a good 60 hours or so which is great for a first person shooter but, i 
 didn't like that i had to play through the first game again just to get to the new stuff. I bought 
 and played all the way through the first far cry for the original Xbox so it felt like they just 
 sold me the same game twice. However, there was a full game after you beat the first one again. 
 (For those geeks out there that are screaming at the top of their lungs I know there is a far cry 
 for the pc that came out first.) If you have read any of my other reviews or talked to me online 
 you know that I am a sniper, thus I tried sniping on this game an found it difficult due to the 
 fact that there are evolutions that give you super speed. So if you want a good sniping game stick 
 with battlefield 2 or rainbow. Over all this game was pretty good. I liked that you could go prone 
 then roll on your back and shoot upwards through the cracks in the floors. And the integration 
 of land mines and other traps into a FPS was a great idea but i am not into the cartoonish graphics. 
 I'll give it a 6.3 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Airswoop
Rating: 5.3
Date: Jul 23, 2007 5:25 pm PT
Review:  Having never played Far Cry on the Xbox I came into this game expecting to experience what I missed 
 out on; and well, thats exactly what I got. From everything I have read this seems to be the exact 
 same game, same story, same feature, same graphics. This makes me wonder why it even is $60 to 
 begin with, because the Xbox game is backwards compatible. I could have just spent $20 on the old 
 version and had just about the same experience. With that said, I can get onto the controls. The 
 aiming in this game is disgusting. Your reticle in this game is huge, it covers enemies heads, 
 and you never know where the bullet will end up in the circle. Its also almost impossible to aim 
 with great accuracy. It almost seems random how far the reticle will move with every movement of 
 the stick. Another gripe with the game is that it can be difficult to tell when you are being shot; 
 theres no rumble, theres not sound, the only way you can tell is by glancing down at the numbers 
 at the bottom of the screen. The quality of the audio is very unsatisfying, and the voice acting 
 feels awkward. The graphics continue this trend of meritocracy; everything looks last-gen, its 
 almost as if they just took the textures from the Xbox title and slapped them on. I would not recommend 
 this game to anyone, plenty of things exist that are better for you to spend your money on. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lebbin
Rating: 7.9
Date: Jul 25, 2007 3:22 pm PT
Review:  The feel of being hunted works great. The game has the action feel mixed with slealth, which creates 
 a very fun experience. The setting of the jungle works, and the vehicle segmants work better than 
 expected. The gameplay has you trying to outsmart your enemies. The A. I. is simply put: amazing. 
 They are very smart. The shooting and slicing with your knife is pretty smooth as is setting traps. 
 The graphics aren't great becuase this is bascally a last-gen game, but they still work. The sound 
 sets the pace, and the value is leangthened by the very fun multiplayer. This is a must buy if 
 you like action! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: a2entertainment
Rating: 6.3
Date: Jun 23, 2007 12:05 am PT
Review:  Far Cry was a game I had read and heard alot about. Considering this I jumped at the chance of 
 buying a 360 version. I had seen trailers which looked amazing and read alot of positive reviews. 
 You could imaging my disappointment when I started playing it.
  
  Gameplay :
  Gameplay in Far Cry was very very repetitive. I found new levels to feel very familiar. Enemies 
 aren't programmed as well as they could be. (ie: I was standing behind a rock and there was no 
 way the enemy could see me but for some reason one came running around and started firing at me) 
 Graphics:
  Nothing special. The only good thing with the graphics is the water. All the rest is late-xbox 
 standard. Could be much, much better but the creators were too lazy to improve them during the 
 port from xbox to 360...
  
  Sound:
  Also nothing special. Quite standard. Nothing stood out for me. Didn't feel like I was there.
 
  
  In conclusion, I wouldn't recommend this game except to diehard FPS players. It was very bland. 
 Online play was good though. Map editor was a nice bonus. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Harding19
Rating: 6.2
Date: Jun 19, 2007 11:35 am PT
Review:  Far Cry on the PC ushered in a new era, or at least new dynamic, for the FPS. Sprawling landscapes, 
 multiple paths, responsive and intelligent AI, and smooth graphics and sound made Far Cry a must 
 have (assuming you could run the darn thing - it was quite the hardware-demanding diva of its time) .
 
  
  In comes Far Cry Instincts, and it successor Far Cry Evolution. Similar game, slightly different 
 story, lots of ammo. While the graphics don't compare to your best PC, they do just fine - the 
 water was especially cool. Graphics are fine, sound's fine, game runs smoothly... what's missing 
 here?
  
  Oh yeah: depth. This game is pretty much a critical success, and maybe it's because I don't like 
 shooters that much, but this game is flat out boring after 30 minutes. I turned on God mode halfway 
 in because I just wanted to beat it. The enemies were the same and I found their behavior odd at 
 times; sometimes I'd be standing right in front of them, but alas no reaction. I found many of 
 the chase levels to be too easy. The feral powers had almost no value, though it was cool to think 
 I was mauling someone to death.
  
  Far Cry Instincts Predator commited two major sins when it came to the FPS genere: terrible weapons 
 and repetitive levels.
  
  Starting with weapons, developers, please note: sound, sound, sound. If it sounds weak, it feels 
 weak. I don't care if I'm holding a bazooka, if it sounds like a Super Soaker, it's lame. Help 
 me feel the bullet-spewing lethality by having truly authentic sound effects. The generic ratatata 
 is not good enough. It's even worse on the shotgun. This is where Halo did it right; every round 
 I shot off in this game felt like a peashooter.
  
  Level design. Granted, there weren't too many corridor levels, but Far Cry boasts an open world. 
 but quite frankly there's really only one way to go in almost every level. For the more open ended 
 levels, the map sucks, and finding your way around is frustrating. This sounds picky, but a good 
 medium between free-roaming and some guidance is something many other shooters have gotten the 
 hang of.
  
  If you feel like just flat-out blasting baddies, pick it up. Otherwise, save your money and find 
 a better shooter. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MattdaWarrior
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jun 10, 2007 6:36 pm PT
Review:  Hmm... Far cry, where to begin? Far Cry Instincts Predator, is a game exclusively for the 360, 
 and as such , the production value is at it's best. The best, unfortunately, is not the greatest. 
 This game is a port of the original Far Cry Instincts on the Xbox, and the graphics, mainly recived 
 a lighting touch, but not much else. That's not too much to say, though, considering how good the 
 original version looked. Beyond that this is still the fun, challenge from a Far Cry game. The 
 game has fairly open environments and plenty of weaponry for you to stalk, assassinate, and outright 
 kill your prey. In the later levels of the game, stealh tactics are for the most part, forgotten, 
 considering that your tank of a superhuman, can take just about anything that his enemies through 
 at him. And, your advesaries are no push overs. These guys can take a bullet just as well as you 
 do. But I've found that they don't like to be shot in the face. The campaign, will probably last 
 you 10-12 hours if you play well. And there's not much to bring you back. The multiplayer, though, 
 will have you dusting off the case long after you've beaten the game and put it away. The multiplayer 
 supports both on- and offline play. The modes contain the standards (Deathmatches, CTF, etc.) , 
 but a special mode known as Predator pits up to 4 predators against the rest of the mercinaries 
 in play. There is a deep and very fun map maker that allows for almost anything one person could 
 imagine. The game at this point in time will run you about 20 bucks sso there is no excuse to not 
 have it. But if you're looking for a fun shooter for a almost now money, pick up Far Cry Predator. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bubear666
Rating: 7.6
Date: Jun 6, 2007 12:12 pm PT
Review:  I had the orginal for PC and at the time that game was revolutionary. However after buying the 
 360 version I was happy to see that the story was altered slightly but dissapointed to see that 
 the graphics were not up to the standards set by the original. This is not to say they are bad 
 but the 360 has soo much power and they have not really used a lot of that in this game. The story 
 is a little boring and the game can sometimes be a little bit diffcult at points but it is two 
 seperate games rolled into one and the length of it is incredible. Took me hours to complete but 
 once completed there is no real reason to go back and play it. I would rent before buying as it 
 may not be too everyones taste. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: djsaskdja
Rating: 5.7
Date: May 28, 2007 1:13 pm PT
Review:  I have an active subscription to GameFly and I like to rent a lot of games I hear are good but 
 would normally never buy. Every once in a while I'm surprised to find that it is a good game and 
 end up buying it. This is not the case with Far Cry Instincts Predator. I played the original campaign 
 first and at first I kind of liked the cool traps and knifing someone from behind, but after a 
 while this got extremely repetitive and boring. But for some reason the original campaign seem 
 to rely on this stealth approach for almost the whole game. After a while I just said screw it 
 and got my butt kicked when I tried to do it like a normal FPS. Now on the second campaign the 
 game seemed to rely less on this stealth approach and was way more about action sequences which 
 I enjoyed a lot more. But this more actiony approach just made problems with the game all the more 
 obvious. The graphics are the hideous spawn of a direct port except for the second campaigns environments. 
 But the horrendous character models made me cringe every time I looked at them. The voice acting 
 and story were acceptable even though I can honestly say I don't remember what the music was like 
 so that tells me that it was likewise. The replay value is good if you look at it as two long campaigns 
 and a multiplayer. But if you hate this game as much as I do that won't be a good thing. All and 
 all I would say if you want fun FPS action see Halo, Half-Life, and Call of Duty. If you want fun 
 Stealth Action see Splinter Cell and Metal Gear Solid, do not see Far Cry Instincts Predator. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: r4v3gl0ry
Rating: 7.4
Date: May 27, 2007 8:07 pm PT
Review:  So~what is Far Cry, you say? Far Cry is a series of video games made by Crytek, the company that 
 is developing Crysis. You play as Jack Carver, a man forced to disappear from the United States, 
 who has just been paid by a woman to take her to a rather dangerous island. She takes your little 
 boat motor cycle thingy (forgot the name) , hands you $200, and disappears into the island to explore, 
 not knowing that she'd vanish a while later. So, you take a little nap, and wake up in the middle 
 of a helicopter bombing on your boat. That is when you swim to safety and the game begins.
  
  Game Play ~ Overall, I'd like to say that the game really has its moments. What I mean is, 
 when it's boring, it's completely tedious. When it's fun, it's super fun. Let me explain. The instruction 
 manual has promised Far Cry owners with a wide-enough range of weapons. But, when it comes to fighting 
 in the jungle, game play becomes rough instead of smooth. Some vehicles, like cars, are extremely 
 well-known for toppling over and sliding off cliffs. Not cool. In this jungle battlefield, you 
 can kill in numerous ways, such as: set up traps, stealthily kill with your knife, grenade a group 
 of victims-to-be, run them over, or just shoot the crap out of your enemies. The truth is, all 
 of these ways of killing aren't always going to be fun. For example, some missions will just throw 
 groups of 2 to 4 soldiers at you every few minutes,. Most of the time, they'll be in little huts 
 with an ocean scenery behind them. A great amount of time will be used in crawling under the huts 
 and shooting at the unsuspecting enemy above through a crack.
  
  Still, it ain't always gonna be like that. The fun factors of this game are the challenging objectives 
 you must achieve. They will involve getting across bumpy terrain while running from an enemy helicopter, 
 having health that will reduce by up to 7 health points per shot, and enemies that know damn well 
 how to aim and eliminate you with explosives, including the ones around you. Ammo is also very 
 limited, so you must conserve it. Although you can perform a stealth attack with your knife- which 
 is highly satisfying and devious- you'll be in a blood bath of trouble if thats all you have left 
 while infiltrating a mercenary base and trying to steal a vehicle. The AI is exceptionally skilled 
 in combat. They really know how to use grenades and scout for you, as well as hide in the bushes 
 without getting noticed. Of course, you could always set traps by twisting broken-off tree branches 
 onto other trees, throw a rock at the AI with the grenade button, wait for them to approach you, 
 and let them trip on it. Fun? Well, not as fun as the stealth move.
  
  But... do you still remember what I said about having its moments? Sometimes, you'll have to play 
 through the same area many times, mainly because you'll be outnumbered by AI who are a bit TOO 
 tough sometimes. No, I'm not a n00b, and yes, I play on the middle difficulty. Rather than just 
 being killed off like good victims are supposed to do, the developers decided not to put up a set 
 number of enemies, but to have them RESPAWN. That, my friend, is ridiculous. Health packs are scarce 
 in numbers, and may I say that the AI can shoot through walls from ANY angle? You could resort 
 to using the unlimited ammo cheat so your machine gun lasts (since you'll be using the handgun 
 most of the time) , which doesn't ruin the game at all. It gets kinda tiring to watch yourself shoot 
 with a handgun at a far-away enemy with that HILARIOUSLY giant crosshair
  
  Graphics ~ Hmm..... Far Cry Instincts is just remake of the XBOX original with a few graphical enhancements, 
 which is a pretty minor disappointment. Still, the water is superbly detailed. The character models 
 still look strange..... Anyway, the graphics are OK, but still better than Ninety-Nine Nights, which 
 really pisses me off. Sound ~ Sounds decent to me, but the voice acting is a bit off. The timing 
 is not done well.
  
  *NEW* ~ THE ENVIRONMENTS ARE VERY CREATIVELY MADE! IT REALLY LOOKS LIKE A PARADISE FROM FAR AWAY, 
 WITH THE WATER MOTOR CYCLE THINGY ABLE TO TRAVEL ON WATER IN THOSE BEAUTIFUL SEA CAVERNS. THERE 
 IS ADVENTURE EVERYWHERE! A FREE WORLD TO ROAM!
  
  Pros:
  - Clever AI.
  - Challenging missions.
  - Nifty ways to wipe enemies out and have fun.
  - Great environment, 
 despite graphical details. Full of adventure, and you are free to fall off cliffs and swim in the 
 water. You can even jump around on ledges and get stuck in nooks and crannies.
  
  Cons:
  - For the people who played the original Far Cry Instincts won't find anything too new here, and 
 you'll have to play through the first game to unlock the Evolution campaign. NOTE- You may use 
 a cheat to unlock the new campaign.
  - AI could be too hard.
  - Harder missions may make the game extremely boring.
  - Graphics aren't quite there yet.
  
 - Dialogue. is said with bad timing.
  
  Replay Value ~ There's a good amount of it. And if you think the middle difficulty level is hard, 
 check out Predator difficulty. Or, you could go on the easiest level and play through the entire 
 game with just your knife and rocks .^___^.
  
  Overall, I'll say that this game is good. It's a very enjoyable shooter that you have to be cautious 
 with. Check it out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gbird991
Rating: 7.9
Date: May 18, 2007 6:32 pm PT
Review:  Though it offers little that's new, what really matters is if the game's still fun, which FCIE 
 most definitely is. Slaughtering things with feral powers is always enjoyable, and the expanded 
 multiplayer options help to keep this game entertaining long after you blaze through the new single 
 player content. If you're thinking of buying this game, consider the following. If you never played 
 FCI before and are looking for a new shooter experience, by all means get this game. If you were 
 a big fan of FCI and are really into map modding, you'll appreciate FCIE's expanded options. If 
 you were one of the many waiting for a true sequel to FCI, however, keep waiting. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LiLLaRkIn
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 10, 2007 4:12 pm PT
Review:  This game is the one i always play. Creating your own maps makes this game addicting. I have been 
 playing farcry since the beginning and i can never put it down. Through map editor the possibilities 
 are endless!!!!!. Such as creating new modes ( you only get Chaos, Team Chaos, Steal the Sample, 
 Predator, and a new mode called Seek and Secure) . But we have created first assault- each Team 
 starts with the other sample. Second assault- one team starts with the other teams sample ( offense) 
 while the other team tries do defend them from scoring. King of the hill- in this you use the start 
 glitch and place the two samples on top of each other (in map editor) and when you stand on it 
 your score increases dramatically. Plus many other ideas. If you wanna make your on scenarios this 
 game is definitely for you. The only cons i can think of are that the story mode still fells the 
 same as the first but with alot more roaming around. Also online there is NO BOOTING not even in 
 a player match, so you cant kick that idiot team killing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 11cairborne
Rating: 8.4
Date: May 8, 2007 5:36 pm PT
Review:  well i got the game 2 weeks ago and it rocked until i realized the whole game is the same and the 
 same the only difference is new enemys. they do the same thing as the others and well its kinda 
 hard. even when i beat the game and tried easy it was kinda hard. i love the create a map its so 
 cool the graphics are pretty good but the gameplay definetly gets boring. while the sound is pretty 
 good b/c they yell to each other and signal each other wen they see me. which is pretty cool. so 
 overall this game i give an 8 out of 10 but on gamespot i cant make it like that without the real 
 things i think of it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lokiisback
Rating: 7.7
Date: Apr 20, 2007 9:30 pm PT
Review:  This game is not the best game on the XBox 360, but it's defiantly worth buying if your a Far Cry 
 fan, or maybe to the casual gamer, just rent it. The games online isn't the best... With the user 
 maps flooding the web, and all the people glitch'ing, it's hard to find an actual game, and when 
 you do people stand-by... And almost everyone doesn't have a microphone. The single player is alright, 
 but there is too few points from beginning to end with cut scenes that you actually care about... 
 Not to say that the campaign mode sucks, you can still have fun with it, just not as much as you 
 could. This game is best for local multi player. If you just want to beat the campaign, then you 
 might be better off just renting it, as the story isn't that long, and the extended 'Predator' 
 section basically is just a short boss sequence. A good game, just not as good as it could have 
 been......... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bluedragon99
Rating: 9.7
Date: Apr 5, 2007 2:16 pm PT
Review:  When you first start out on your boat sitting around sleeping, you would never expect for a horde 
 of enemies to destroy your boat start you on the run of you life. The dual-story single player 
 action is busting the seams with action, violence, and mature content.
  
  Even after you have seen all there is in the single player campaign, there is still the plethura 
 of maps, and modes for multi-player. Not only is there a character customization system for online 
 and offline gameplay. There is also a map creation system. The system allows you to take hours 
 of your life and turn them into endless levels of construction, and destruction. Many form of levels 
 are available. Many online players have come up with a massive amount of ideas for the predator 
 mode that include cheap horror movie thrills, and the awesome puxxle map insanity. The fun and 
 action never stop in this thrill ride of a lifetime. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XxGreatScythexX
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 25, 2007 11:05 am PT
Review:  As this game reaches its first year on the xbox360, its makes me look back at all the great times 
 I have had with the FarCry series.
  
  Gameplay:
  Jack Carver has reached his third game and is back for more action, this time on the 360 (then 
 there is FarCry Vengeance... a total letdown) ! When FarCry came out, this unexpected game took all 
 PC players by storm. A year later when its sequel FarCry Instincts came out, all xbox players realized 
 that this could be a revolutionary series. An ok game later, we get to this game... and it didn't 
 really get that many people to keep their positive thoughts about the FarCry series. The gameplay 
 itself is the same in all the FarCry games out for the 360, so there is not much more to expect 
 if you have Instincts and Evolution. The story is just Instincts and Evolution with a little update 
 to the graphics... but not by much. This game is supposed to be a tactile shooter, but no one really 
 hides or sets up traps when you get the Predator powers that enable you to just crush everything 
 in your path using your monster claws. You only get several chances to sneak up and back stab someone, 
 and that is only in the Instincts story.
  The A. I. has decreased alot. You could kill someone right next to another guy and it would take 
 them several minutes to realize that his friend just died. Even after they realize you are there, 
 they will not even shoot you sometimes because they are so stupid. I was looking foreword to some 
 major updates when this game was going to come out on the 360, but all Ubisoft did was make the 
 game worse. The multi player is where everything is at! Everyone is nice on the FarCry community 
 except for a select few. It is not that hard to get good at this game and to enjoy yourself. Since 
 there is absolutely no rankings or competitive gaming, it is all just good fun. There are a huge 
 selection of maps, which brings me to the major strong point of the game...
  The map editor is by far one of the greatest map creating systems I have ever seen. There are so 
 many ways to get new ideas and create new maps for you and your friends to enjoy playing on every 
 time. I myself have made many terrific maps and if you want to see some of them, just click the 
 links below...
  
  
  
  
  If you want to see all of them just send me a friend 
 request. Graphics:
  There is nothing special about them. The old FarCry games had amazing graphics but these are just 
 horrible for the xbox360. There is a very noticeable online frame-rate problem that gets annoying 
 after awhile. The only graphical change is the water, and even that is not that great.
  
  Sound:
  The ambient effects fit nicely in the FarCry series and even in the multi player maps. 
 The gun sounds and explosions are a bit cheesy, but besides that it is sometimes nice to just sit 
 and listen to the beaches of these games. Value:
  It is well worth the money to buy it. There are two games in and a terrific multi player. The campaign 
 may not seem that great, but the online will be alot of fun. Tilt:
  The game is sometimes uneven since people can make cheap maps or horrible ones that just waste 
 space on your hard drive. The graphical flaws and annoying A. I. get in the way alot too. The map-editor 
 is alot of fun though and offers many things to have endless imaginative possibilities. Final Words: 
 I would say this would be a good game to rent, see what it is like, then try all the old FarCry 
 games because that is where it is all at. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PSYCO109
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 21, 2007 9:15 am PT
Review:  I went into this game not expecting much as all I heard was rather negative feedback from the gaming 
 community. After breaking this open and playing for quite a while, over 20 hours and still not 
 finished, I must say that I am pleasantly surprised. The levels are vast and stream together, there 
 is rarely ever loading and these areas are huge. From indoor to outdoor and everything in between. 
 The areas are varied and all very interesting to look at and explore. The graphics are another 
 high point! There is so much going on in the game that it is a shock that there isnt slowdown. 
 Some textures are basic but the lighting, water and vast areas make up for it in spades. The real 
 superstar of the game is the enemy AI! On medium difficulty, it is very challenging, but not to 
 the point of being frustratng. The enemy AI finds its way around trees, looking for the best angle 
 to shoot you at, it also calls out to local squadmates who will flank you while its teammate is 
 laying down supressive fire. What is great about this AI is that it will follow you in and out 
 of buildings, up staircases and anywhere you can think of. This game reminds me more of the Rainbow 
 Six series than it does a regular FPS. As you have to take into account your environment and where 
 enemies could be hiding. There is alot of planning to be done if you want to get through a level 
 in one piece. Not to the point of dismay though. I cannot say enough good things about this game. 
 Prepare to sit down with this game for a long time! I am 20 hours in and have no clue how close 
 I am to finishing the game, though I feel I am near. Did I mention that this is only the first 
 game that I am on. I havent even played the second!!! The only real knock against this game is 
 the short supply of enemies that are reused throughout the game and some mini-bosses that are used 
 alot. Other than that, you cannot go wrong paying $40 for this game. It will last you a long time 
 and I havent even touched on the online portion yet. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: golonghorns
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 19, 2007 6:43 pm PT
Review:  This game is simply AWESOME! This review will be multiplayer only, as I haven't really played single 
 player.
  
  So basically, there are 5 different multiplayer modes. The first is called Chaos, which is a free-for 
 all deathmatch, obviously. The second is Team Chaos. It should be obvious what this is. The third 
 is called Steal The Sample. This is the most fun multiplayer mode (well, to me anyway.) It is like 
 CTF except with samples instead of flags. The 4th multiplayer mode is called Predator. In this 
 mode, there will be a couple of predators (The number varies) and the rest of the players are just 
 normal humans. The predator has many superhuman abilities, I won't list them here as I bet some 
 of the other reviews on this site have them listed somewhere. The humans must activate a sonic alarm 
 that will kill the predator. In order to do this, the humans must go into Predator territory.
 
  The final mode is called Seek and Secure. This mode is similar to King Of The Hill, in which your 
 team has to capture a point on the map and hold it.
  There is also a map editor on this game, but I've never used it, as I have been glued to playing 
 other users maps over Live (some are VERY good, by the way.) , but I've heard it is very fun to 
 use, although newbies may have a hard time when they first load it up, because they will be overwhelmed 
 by all the features of it.
  
  The multiplayer is FUN. It's not really laggy, and is one of the best multiplayer experiences I've 
 experienced in a video game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KinkySPOT
Rating: 5.2
Date: Mar 9, 2007 6:29 am PT
Review:  When Farcry came out for the pc, we were all left stunned, now there's plenty of Farcry remakes, 
 quite sadly none of them lives up to the original's spirit. 
  
  Game-play wise, it's incredibly stupid. I must be honest as a reviewer that I haven't finished 
 the game, not even by half - It's so broken that it left me wanting to give it away, but keeping 
 it to myself considering its price and ever teach me of my own stupidity.
  
  Regardless how blind or dumb one is, it should be on the note that this game packs a bunch more 
 than most other shooters on the console.
  You get a map maker which is fairly nice considering that a simple editor must remain simple to 
 the people, so that it may be useful for whoever wants to try it out. You can always share the 
 maps on-line by playing them on your server which is of course a plus, and it makes the game live 
 longer for those of you who like the maps. However, and this is a big side note, no matter how 
 good a simple map maker is, it will never feel quite the same playing a user-created map as opposed 
 to playing an advanced studio-made map.
  
  The presentation in the game, is very dull indeed. It starts with showing off several bugs and 
 the limitation of its graphics. Neither is it impressive in any way, leaving you wondering how 
 bad the game will be once it starts, and it does not deliver less than the player's anticipation.
 
  
  The action starts way too fast, leaving you in a war without being prepared for what is to come, 
 this would mean for the better if it was a WWII shooter. But it's not. You are left with too few 
 ammo pickups, weapons and an annoyingly awful enemy artificial intelligence. While the single-player 
 mode does look fair sometimes. It's often less impressive than walking outside with your puppy. 
 (No I don't intend to offend you puppy lovers.)
  
  Good's and bad's
  
  + Weapon Graphics
  + Map Maker
  + Much Single-player
  + Many Multi-player choices
  + Fair 
 Controls
  
  - Presentation
  - Value
  - Bad Overall Graphics
  - Graphical Glitches
  - Awful Enemy AI
  - Broken Single-player
  - Too Fast
  - It's not Farcry Anymore
  - Uninspired 
 Modes
  
  Rent it first, unless you can have it for a cheap trade. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mastermuk
Rating: 8.9
Date: Feb 27, 2007 10:29 am PT
Review:  Well what to say more. I'm not a fan of 3rd person shooters so i won't talk about Gears Of War, 
 have the game but i just don't like the engine. 1st Person shooters YES!!! What to choose? Well 
 just get Perfect Dark Zero or this one : Far Cry Predator Instincts. Although many people complain 
 about the graphics this is well being compensated by the level build feature in this game (probably 
 this makes the game less beatiful but what the heck) .
  What's better than making your own multiplayer levels and play with anyone you like? The game never 
 get's boring. There are a few minor complaints about this game...... yes bigger multiplayer space 
 to create your own bigger levels. Yes they are spacy enough but i would like m bigger.
  
  Okay some other critics about this game. The aiming could be better, i mean the aiming spot is 
 a bit big, steers well enough. Maybe for people who had the previous part they got a bit fed up 
 but this game is most certainly not boring and well worth your money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: oldmenkickbutt
Rating: 7.9
Date: Feb 21, 2007 7:18 am PT
Review:  Far Cry Instincts Predator uses a unique special powers system in this game to do different jobs. 
 These jobs include super jumps, claws, and super strength. The super strength comes in effect when 
 you rip apart a turret. You have the ability to make a stationary machine gun on a turret, portable. 
 The claws come in effect when you want to perform a stealth kill. These claws pay a huge part in 
 staying hidden during missions.
  
  A cool part a bout this game is that it is actually two games in one. There are two full length 
 story modes which are both worth playing. A nice feature in this game is the scenario creator. 
 You can completely customize a playing field for multiplayer battles. If you want to fight on an 
 island, go right ahead!
  
  The weapon selection in this game is pretty good. The guns vary from hardcore machine guns to smaller, 
 yet deadly pistols. The missions in the game are very different from one another which gives you 
 a beter FPS experience. In conclusion, its an amazing FPS and I highly reccomend it to others! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MallratsJaySB
Rating: 8.1
Date: Feb 20, 2007 3:31 pm PT
Review:  The original Far Cry on the PC was simply an amazing game. Everything about that game was top notch 
 from audio to visual to gameplay. Far Cry Instincts Predator isn't quite as polished as people 
 were hoping and it's well under the bar that the original game set. But it's still just as addicting 
 as it was originally and with it having two games in one, it's well worth a look from people who 
 own 360's. You are Jack Carver and while out on a routine trip with a tourist your ship is blown 
 up and you are stuck on a remote island with mercenaries and strange creatures trying to kill you. 
 The plot is practically the same as the original on the PC so it's nothing really that exciting, 
 but it's fine.
  
  As mentioned before, Predator includes two games in one. This is excellent and with the tremendous 
 amount of content, it's definitely worth a purchase from Xbox 360 owners. But the problem is that 
 both of these games were made on the original Xbox, so if you've played those then there is really 
 no reason to play this because nothing is different besides enhanced graphics. Both games play 
 exactly the same with nothing significantly changing from one game to the next. Early on in the 
 first game, you will gain feral powers, which is basically animal instincts. These powers will 
 help you see in the dark, smell odors, track living things, and of course a claw attack to dispatch 
 your enemies. None of them are that useful and you'll hardly find yourself using any of them besides 
 the claw attack. Besides that, the FPS segments are about the same as other games and it's nothing 
 that impressive, but it works surprisingly well. The biggest difference between the two games is 
 that the first game is fairly linear while the second one is just a bit more open-ended. Now although 
 this game isn't as hard as the original, it is still rather difficult. During the first few levels, 
 the game is unrelenting so don't be surprised if you find yourself dying more than you like. But 
 after you gain your feral powers, your health will regenerate after a small amount of time without 
 being hit, so it does become easier. Even still, this game is no cake walk.
  
  The graphics aren't nearly as good as they should be on the 360. Maybe it's just me, but I found 
 the game on the PC to look considerably better than this game. It has been quite a while since 
 I played that game so they may not be as good as I remember them, but this game really is nothing 
 special in terms of visuals. Since these games were originally Xbox games, the graphics are only 
 slightly enhanced. That's not to say that these games look bad because they definitely look very 
 good in some spots. When it comes to the water effects, it looks awesome, but when it comes to 
 some of the bushes and various forest areas, it looks very bad. It did get its job done though 
 so it's not a big complaint.
  
  The sound is decent. The voice acting is pretty bad all across the board and it's understandable 
 since the story isn't particularly interesting to begin with. The guns are a mixed bag in the audio 
 department. Some guns packed quite a punch while others sounded like a squirt gun. All in all though, 
 the sound was fine.
  
  The value of this game will be different for everybody. If you are like me and never played the 
 games on the Xbox, then this game is a great deal. It should be rather cheap by now and you get 
 two very solid games in one so it's hard to not pick this game up if you own a 360. If you have 
 played those games originally however, I would say pass on this game because it adds nothing new 
 to the single player experience.
  
  Overall, Far Cry Instincts Predator is a very fun, challenging, and addicting game that is well 
 worth a look if you haven't played it before. The graphics aren't the best, but they get their 
 job done. The sound is about the same: uncomplimentary but not terrible. But the real reason this 
 game is getting such a high score is because you are getting two very good, very solid games in 
 one for a great price. It takes about 15-20 hours to finish the game depending on your experience 
 and difficulty level so it does tend to get stale after the first game, but if you are looking 
 for a bloody fun time on your 360, then Far Cry Instincts Predator fits the bill nicely. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: emeraldqueen
Rating: 5.2
Date: Feb 10, 2007 3:58 am PT
Review:  I personally didn't like this game at all specially the graphics and the way you control the game. 
 The story wasn't that bad but I still think Ubisoft can do a better job on working out things for 
 the players. Basically this game is all about that you're Jack Carver, stranded on a remote tropical 
 island. A legion of elite mercenaries, blood-thirsty pirates and native warriors are rapidly closing 
 in. Whether they kill for money or for revenge, they're all heavily armored and they all want your 
 head. Outmanned and outgunned, your survival won't come easy. You must draw on Jack's most savage 
 instincts and abilities to make his predators his prey.
  
  In the open-ended tropical environment, discover many ways to kill. Set up and unleash brutal jungle 
 traps. Commit stealth kills amidst the foliage. Snipe from extreme distances. Steal the enemy's 
 weapons and launch brutal counter-assaults over land, sea and air-ranging from hand-to-hand strikes 
 to rocket salvos. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cooper182
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jan 28, 2007 6:43 am PT
Review:  I have already played farcry for the xbox and the story was fun. Not much has changed it the terms 
 of the story aprt from one new story (evolution) . This story is ok and is the same back drop but 
 different story. Its still fun if you want that feeling of stalking your prey through the jungle. 
 But this time your prey has the same abilities as you. Which is a nice twist to the game. The thing 
 i love the most about the farcry series is the map editor. The way you can download or create maps 
 is amazing. Others games should have this feature. Though not good single player game what it falls 
 it that it makes up with the mulitplayer. The best feature of the game. So if you want a great 
 mulitplayer that will keep you entertained for hours this is your game. Thanks for reading. Cooper182 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Seiki_sands
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jan 15, 2007 7:33 am PT
Review:  There is ALOT of misinformation floating around in the player reviews for this game, mostly relating 
 to how they ruined the game, and posted by so-called fans. I have trouble believing they are fans 
 because while this is not a great port, specifically it doesn't fully leverage the 360's abilities 
 graphics wise, it is slightly better than the original Instincts. An original, I might add, that 
 was and still is one of the best FPS available. Graphics- Not dramatically improved in a technical 
 sense and not as good as other games on the system, yet the game still looks fine. Heck, let me 
 take that back and say the game looks attractive. And, as can be seen especially in Hi-Def, has 
 been improved. Don't believe me? Watch the comparison video youself, which is here on Gamespot 
 and shows that the 360 version even compares favorably with the PC version, which was sharper than 
 the XB version. In addition, some of the new enviorments in the expansion are artistically interesting 
 and there is a good deal of variey to the levels. None are as striking as the standard tropical 
 scenes you encounter at the beginning of instincts, but they are pretty. There is plenty of low-res 
 stuff going on (character models are stinky, the weapons are fine but not fantastic) , and there 
 is still some silly looking 2D foliage, all of it from the original, but while it looks out of 
 place, it NEVER overpowers the scene and you would have to be looking for reasons to trash the 
 game to pretend it does. I think people were so focused on the WOW factor when it comes to the 
 tropical islands and their surrounding water that they didn't bother noticing the fact that even 
 the original looked mediocre at times, the last 1/2 hour of Instincts has always been a little 
 blah. Story- The story in the original was acceptable, not fantastic. It did a little better than 
 merely explain why you were fighting endlessly similar mercenaries in a tropical enviorment, but 
 thats about it. Not supremely well written or acted it was slightly inspired B-Movie action stuff. 
 Same holds for the slightly less interesting plot and less inspired plot of the expansion, although 
 at times its story actually holds together a little better. It was nearly always quite clear why 
 you were doing exactly what you were doing in the expansion. Whereas the original was less insistant, 
 especially early in the game and to me anyway I was just going inland or following a road without 
 too much urgent motivation. Gameplay- Far from a run &amp; gun or a tactical shooter, Far Cry has 
 a feel all its own. Your outnumbered enough, and your opponents due enough damage, to where you 
 have to slowly set the stage, but when the fight begins its frantic, run &amp; gun fun. IOW, most 
 fights are about carefully trimming the odds in the first couple of blows, then busting loose. 
 Most of the time your then expected to move on mid-fight because your usually in the act of escaping 
 or getting to some point where you can rescue so finding routes out of fights becomes intense and 
 fun. When you get feral powers the game picks up even more, what it loses in balance it makes up 
 for in fun, jumping huge chasms in the mountains at high running speeds in a tropical setting while 
 a enemies take potshots until you claw them to death is a great moment in gaming.
  
  In the expansion, since you have your speed increasing feral powers from the beginning some of 
 the balance is lost, with the game only slowing you down by turning a part of the stage into a 
 sniper's shooting gallery or by threatening you with unknown numbers because of a level design 
 that permits a lot of surprises, a level design that is good for a linear shooter (or linear after 
 the first main area anyway) , by the way. However, high speed fights with new opponents whose powers 
 are similar to your abilities are just fun and the expansion definately has some nice moments, 
 I actually liked what Gamespot called jumping puzzles (there is nothing puzzly about them) though 
 they did get repetitive toward the end of the game. The game also features a more interesting main 
 boss than the first, who I found to have no personality whatsoever. The AI is also better this 
 time around, though still not great, and considering everyone wrote in the reviews of the original 
 that it was good, I find some funny hypocrisy going on.
  
  A special note on the crappy vehicle controls: the first-person ATV, pick-up, or PT boat controls 
 are loose, but if the ATV was a sinch to control, it would of single-handedly ruined much of the 
 tension of escaping firefights in instincts. I know that sounds cheap, but while they control a 
 little crazy I did not find them unauthentic to the moment.
  
  A special note on aiming: I always turn aim sensitivity UP when I play any game so the complaints 
 everyone seems to have on that account sooo did not effect me. And, if the player reviewers are 
 to be believed they affected only people who had gotten used to the first game anyway, and this 
 game was absolutely not suggested for such users by any commercial review. I'm sorry, but the aiming 
 isn't broken or messed up in any way, it just starts at a different point in the scale.
  
  The map editor is still fun and quite easy to use considering the input and the multi-player (I 
 played almost nothing of it yet) seems fine on 1st impression, but I'll add something later if 
 I find problems (besides, most people aren't complaining about MP anyway) .
  
  Sound- The music is fairly unique and a good match for game and for the most part gets going right 
 when it should. Some reviewers have mentioned overlapping music on top of audio cues being a problem 
 (the last reviewer mistakenly made it sound like this was a problem with the port, it isn't) , it 
 has affected all Far Cry games and by now I suppose they should have remixed it, but that is a 
 really small quibble for a game that sounds as good as this. The SFX are pretty great actually 
 and I say that because while I'm no audiophile, normally I'm pretty oblivious to this category 
 unless the game has awful sound, this time I noticed because it was so good. The guns sound good, 
 the footsteps sound good, the jungle sounds good, the enemies sound good. Bottom Line: Don't buy 
 if you own the original, unless you get it for $20 bucks or so, because that's all the expansion 
 is worth. DO buy it and buy it now if you have never played the original because this is the EXACT 
 same game that everyone rightly called one of the greatest shooters of all time, only with achievements, 
 enhanced graphics, and more MP maps. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Elite29
Rating: 6.3
Date: Jan 16, 2007 11:48 am PT
Review:  Being a gamer for over twenty years, there are times where this hobby can be very frustrating. 
 When a developer completely cashes-in and delivers an obviously sub-par port of a game on a new 
 system just to make money, it frustrates me. What frustrates me more than that, however, is when 
 I have moments where I am dumb enough to fall for it. Unfortunately Far Cry Instincts Predator 
 (don't even get me started on the stupid name of this title) is one of those moments .
  
  I never played the original Far Cry on the PC. I did buy &amp; play it on the Xbox and absolutely 
 loved it. I gave it a glowing review and I thought it was the best FPS on the system other than 
 the original Halo. Unfortunately, I got rid of my Xbox (damn addiction to upgrading systems) before 
 I had a chance to play the 'sequal' (a. k. a expansion pack) Far Cry Evolution. So after I got my 
 360 I was very happy to know that I could pick up both games in one package and I thought this 
 would be a must-buy. Unfortunately, after puchasing this game and spending some time with the original 
 game again I realized I had been duped. This is a crappy port that not only doesn't offer much 
 of anything new, but it actually is WORSE than it's Xbox counterpart. To better explain my feelings 
 about this crappy port, let me take you through my expierences with this game to maybe better explain 
 my frustration:
  
  I booted up the game with much excitement because I was going to get to play a great shooter once 
 again and I even get achievements along the way? Sounds great! Then I saw the opening scene that 
 looked exactly like it did last year while I was playing this on my Xbox. After a bit, I was forced 
 to jump into some fantastic looking water and swim for safety. While climbing up on a wrecked ship 
 I noticed that my aiming controls were very touchy. I then went into the options and turned the 
 sensitivity down a notch. That resulted in very little help as I still was experiencing the pain 
 of my aiming curser going all over the place even with the slightest of movement by my right analog 
 stick.
  
  I overlooked that flaw for now as I figured it was just me and let's get on with this great game. 
 When I eventually came to a part where I swim again, I ended up on a patch of sand listening to 
 some guy in a headset (I knew the plot already as I have played this before) , but I couldn't hear 
 him well because some stupid music just popped in and drowned him out. I then came upon a beach 
 and a few enemies. I thought I would use some stealth in dealing with these foes, so I pulled out 
 my 'magic thorn branch' (which you essentially pull out of nowhere) , attach it to a tree, make 
 a noise by throwing a rock that I had in my inventory (you have an endless amount of rocks even 
 when there aren't any around, for some reason) to make a sound and the stupid enemy came over and 
 killed himself by walking into my trap.
  
  While that was amusing, I realized the A. I. in this game was still very stupid at times. After 
 that, I thought I would sneak up behind someone and start getting stealth kills for the achievements, 
 which brought me a little sense of amusement. I also noticed that while the enviroments and water 
 still looked great, the foilage that you are crawl around in looks awful. It's laughably bad. Then 
 I thought I would start firing my silenced pistol. When I came to the next batch of enemies I noticed 
 that it was very hard to hit anything. The aiming controls didn't get better from before and I 
 basically tried to use the right analog stick only when I had to. That is obviously a hinderence 
 and shouldn't be happening. But yet again, I trudge on wondering why the hell the game looks like 
 it did when I played it on my Xbox.
  
  Still with me? Ok good. I am getting to a point here. Eventually I get to my first major 'fire-fight' 
 area and I noticed a big difference over the Xbox version. This game is much harder. I am generally 
 a guy who likes a challenge in a game. I also tend to play a game on the 'medium' difficulty setting 
 to start off with. I can't remember if the Xbox version had a choice of difficulty settings, but 
 if it did. I know I would've taken the middle one. I did that with this game, and for some reason, 
 all of a sudden the A. I. went from being incredibly stupid to sharp-shooters. Not only that, apparently 
 the crappy looking foilage that I was crawling around in wasn't providing me as much cover as I 
 thought. Apparently the enemy soldiers had thermal vision (obvious sarcasm) of some sort and could 
 see me even though I couldn't see two inches in front of me save for the cardboard-style looking 
 plant that was covering up my shooting angle.
  
  After defeating these enemies, I went on to the next section where I would attempt to do the same 
 thing. Unfortunately I died (probably something I did and not because you can't hit anything with 
 the crappy aiming, right?) and then remembered my biggest pet-peeve in gaming and Far Cry Instincts 
 Predator does it worse than anyone: LACK OF WELL PLACED CHECKPOINTS! There is NOTHING, and I mean 
 NOTHING, that gets my blood boiling with a game more than developers who are too stupid or lazy 
 to put in adequate checkpoints in a game. And after playing this game for hours and hours (a lot 
 of replaying parts I have already played) , this really killed the game for me. Yes I know the Xbox 
 version had the same problem, but the difference with that was I could actually hit someone when 
 I shot at them and it didn't have crappy aiming controls so I didn't need the checkpoints as much 
 because I stayed alive longer.
  
  And why the hell didn't they fix the worst vehicle controls in videogame history?!!!
  
  At 
 this point, I didn't care that this game was offering me both Instincts and Evolution in one package. 
 I didn't care that I used to love this game. I didn't care I just dropped $40 on a game I no longer 
 want to play. I only cared about the fact that I was stupid enough to buy it in the first place. 
 I mean, who couldn't see this one coming a mile away? This is a crappy &amp; lazy port of a great 
 PC &amp; Xbox FPS that gamers should be digusted with. The graphics are not next-gen in any way. 
 The music is nice, except when it drowns out the dialogue. The controls are WORSE than any other 
 version before it. And the fact that it offers you Evolution along with the original game doesn't 
 excuse the fact that Ubisoft was expecting people to fork out $60 for this turd when it came out.
 
  
  If you already own or have played Far Cry on any other system, stay away from this game. There 
 is nothing really new here and it's shocking that Ubisoft Montreal has actually managed to make 
 the game worse than the previous incarnations. If you haven't played the game before, I would highly 
 recommend renting this. If you can get over the crappy controls &amp; lack of a compentent checkpoint 
 system, you might find a fun game in here somewhere. I just feel that along with everything else 
 that was great about this game last year, the fun got lost in translation. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mackey12345
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 11, 2007 10:16 pm PT
Review:  This is a better version of the Original Far cry Instincts if this game cameout before the xbox 
 version came out.
  
  The graphics, I say aren't lacking, but they don't take advantage of the certain features that 
 Games like Gears of War did, all it did is enable 4x AA and 1600X1280 textures (exaggerated a bit 
 there...)
  
  Sound was borrowed off of Black arrow or the Rainbow six series on the consoles, but I can't blame 
 them cause it was a great use of weapon sound effects for that game, so I hold nothing against 
 it.
  
  The gameplay is a bit better then the original far cry cause it is better stealth based and weapons 
 have a better feel, except the far cry on the pc had better ai, and felt alot larger, and the graphics 
 were so much better, (I find that the far cry instincts is too bright.)
  
  The rest is good, can't say its great, but its good for the series to take another step and a different 
 direction then sticking with the basic shoot that guy mechanic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Truth_Hurts_U
Rating: 5.2
Date: Dec 30, 2006 4:40 am PT
Review:  This game is terrible. I just had to get that out... Solder or pirate or what have you... Is all 
 you kill in this game the majority of the time... The missions are lacking the fun value and the 
 story is weak.
  
  Feral abilities are fun at first but the fun of hitting people 50 feet in the air with a single 
 blow wears thin on your fun level. You will soon be back to guns blazing.
  
  This game does nothing right. You just kill and thats all you do is kill. The killing isn't fun.... 
 Thus the who game falls apart because thats all you do.
  
  The graphics are bad except for the water. But where are all the fish? You will find this game 
 isn't very open. It is basically an expansion to the original Xbox version. Nothing new.
  
  The only good thing is that, it comes with the enhanced version of the Xbox version... Giving you 
 2 terrible games in one... This game is a pass... It's not even rent worthy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crazychris90
Rating: 8.2
Date: Dec 20, 2006 11:40 am PT
Review:  Far Cry Instincts Predator is one of the more under-appreciated Xbox 360 shooters but dont let 
 these messages disturb you, Far Cry does deserve a place on your shelf. It should last you a pretty 
 long while, because most of the achievements require you to either Get so many kills with traps 
 or any type of Technique shown on the achievements.
  
  Single Player Gameplay: 3/5
  
  There are two games on Predator, each last around 8-10 hours. If you have played Instincts before 
 you will probably be focusing on its sequel Evolutions or if your fan who would like to relive 
 the Instincts, You would like to try Instincts again. I have never played Far Cry until I got my 
 hands on this, and I was pretty surprised, but once I completed the hardcore Instincts I rushed 
 through Evolutions and nothing more was an improved Gameplay wise. I found the story much more 
 compelling and understandable in Evolutions though, which did add a little more Replay value than 
 Instincts had. There is a wide amount of weapons and vehicles to choose from in both games, which 
 is pretty cool for those who would like to get off your feet and start some pure action. Another 
 great feature Ill like to add is that every scene, every FMV is scene is seen from Jack Carvers 
 Point of View which is cool when there are action-packed scenes. Either from that youll find that 
 nothing has improved from each mode, so you may feel the game has lost its Next-Gen feel.
  
  Multi-Player Gameplay: 4/5
  
  Multi Player is a goodie, a brilliant achievement Instincts 
 Predator has earned, although with no bots it can be pretty frustrating when playing with very 
 few players. The matches run very smooth and it is extremely rare to spot the slight lag especially 
 with the lack of players in the game. My favourite feature of Far Cry is the ability to create 
 your own maps and share them online, which is what me and my friends have been doing for a range 
 of weeks, It never gets old and making a really nice adventurous map leaves you with the feeling 
 of success. This is definitely the main point to place Far Cry Instincts Predator on your shelf.
 
  
  Graphics: 8/10
  
  The visuals are very eye-popping especially when it comes to the colourful environments. The water.. 
 Hehe the water baby, it is real, you will spend most of your time staring at water, I am not kidding 
 it looks fantastic. Many character designs look awful for todays standards but in Evolutions they 
 do look much better so you cant argue about that, Im not sure if they are recycled from the previous 
 Far Cry games? Many objects look dated, if you compare the buildings etc. with games like Perfect 
 Dark there will be a big difference so the graphics does slightly flaw.
  
  Sound: 8/10
  
  I dont write much about sound but this has some pretty interesting effects. The voice acting 
 is fantastic, Jack Carver sounds like a proper action star. The sound effects are great although 
 there are parts of sound that needs fixing as it occasionally goes quiet especially while driving; 
 this needs to be fixed. The sound is fantastic so is the voice acting but problems need to be fixed.
 
  
  Conclusion:
  
  Far Cry Instincts Predator is an underdog only flawed by a few sound and Gameplay issues but overall 
 this game will stick by your side for a good Year or so. Ubisoft, keep up the good work! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Icthereed
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 18, 2006 12:27 pm PT
Review:  First off far cry for the xbox 360 is dissapionting .... Why is this.... Well theres many problems 
 with the game... First off.. Its basically a port of far cry from the xbox thrown over to the 360 
 in a higher resolution.... Now it does look better then the xbox version but it would have ben 
 nice if they made a new far cry from scratch that could show the xbox 360's graphical powers. Next 
 is the aiming in this game is very jerky not found in the xbox version... it makes it to where 
 the game isint all that fun.... ( note that a recent patch fixed the online aiming but not single 
 player... The other problem they have is that... the online is good ... but theres hardly anyone 
 to play against... Despite all the cons... there are some good thing to far cry such as it gives 
 you 2 game in one... so there a lot of single player here.... Also the map maker is pretty good 
 ... but like i said there hardly anyone you can use it against.... So if you have never played 
 far cry before . Seeing that the price is now lower go ahead and give it a shot its a decent fps 
 that you might enjoy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gawk24
Rating: 7.9
Date: Dec 17, 2006 7:25 pm PT
Review:  There are some coarse language problems but that does not really matter anyway. This game is just 
 plain fun. There are some coarse language problems but that does not really matter anyway. This 
 game is just plain fun. There are some coarse language problems but that does not really matter 
 anyway. This game is just plain fun. There are some coarse language problems but that does not 
 really matter anyway. This game is just plain fun. There are some coarse language problems but 
 that does not really matter anyway. This game is just plain fun. There are some coarse language 
 problems but that does not really matter anyway. This game is just plain fun. There are some coarse 
 language problems but that does not really matter anyway. This game is just plain fun. There are 
 some coarse language problems but that does not really matter anyway. This game is just plain fun. 
 There are some coarse language problems but that does not really matter anyway. This game is just 
 plain fun. There are some coarse language problems but that does not really matter anyway. This 
 game is just plain fun. There are some coarse language problems but that does not really matter 
 anyway. This game is just plain fun. There are some coarse language problems but that does not 
 really matter anyway. This game is just plain fun. There are some coarse language problems but 
 that does not really matter anyway. This game is just plain fun. There are some coarse language 
 problems but that does not really matter anyway. This game is just plain fun. There are some coarse 
 language problems but that does not really matter anyway. This game is just plain fun. There are 
 some coarse language problems but that does not really matter anyway. This game is just plain fun. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Melfencik
Rating: 8.4
Date: Dec 8, 2006 9:01 pm PT
Review:  The Good: Fast paced and fun action, Feral powers are amazing, Good amount of content.
  The Bad: Controls dont feel quite right, Difficultys feel unbalanced, A lot of this content came 
 out last year.
  
  Far Cry Instincts was one of my favourite games last year and i new I just had to get this game 
 along with my 360. It wasnt quite as revolutionary as i had hoped but it certainly did not dissapoint 
 me. It features two campaigns, a great online multiplayer mode and a mapmaker to boot making for 
 a great amount of value for just one game. The Campaigns follow the story of Jack Carver, a navy 
 seal turned mutant hybrid. The campaigns are both fun and well designed and feel very similar except 
 for the fact that the story of the original campaign (the campaign from Far Cry Instincts) is a 
 bit better and the original campaign is also a bit longer. Together thought they weigh in at about 
 15 to 20 hours which is a very good length for a shooter these days. The campaigns never really 
 seem to get repeditive though seeing as there are a fair amount of options for taking out enemys 
 such as through stealth, just running in and shooting everything and using your feral powers. Speaking 
 of which your feral powers are one of the nicest things about the game. Shortly after the start 
 of the first campaign you get injected with this weird serum that turns you into a sort of half 
 human-half animal creature. This gives you some very cool powers such as the ability to rip and 
 enemy apart with your bare hands and run extremly fast and jump very long distances. There is a 
 new power added in the second campaign called feral climb but it isnt really that interesting.
 
  
  The multiplayer of Predator is very good and featues a good variety of maps and modes. The multiplayer 
 has all the weapons and features of the single player mode including your feral powers. It has 
 to be said that ripping someone to shreads online is a very satisfying thing to do. It also comes 
 with a very deep and fully functional mapmaker that is simple to use but can still make very complex 
 maps. This again helps keep the multiplayer experience fresh
  
  There are a few problems with the game however. For a start the game was built for the original 
 Xbox's controller and it shows as the game sometimes controls rather awkwardly. The difficultys 
 are also rather unbalanced. Instead of the actual number of enemys and there accuracy and intelligence 
 increasing, all that happens is that you die alot quicker. There is also the fact that half of 
 this game came out last year.
  
  From a technical standpoint Predator is very good but not outstanding. The graphics arent much 
 better than the Xbox game was last year and have rather low polygon counts although some aspects 
 of the graphics namely the water effects and jungle foliage look great. The sound is very good 
 but has nothing that truly stands out.
  
  In all Far Cry Instincts Predator is a great game that should keep Xbox 360 owners happy for a 
 very long time. Its not perfect, and alot of this content came out last year but if you never got 
 a chance to play the original Far Cry Instincts this game is a must buy 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lolster12345
Rating: 7.3
Date: Dec 7, 2006 3:43 am PT
Review:  Being a FPS nut I could not wait until I got my hands on this game, origionally I had a N64 and 
 Goldeneye was my game of choice which got me into shooters, after having a PS2 for a few years 
 (and many FPS games later!) I decided to get a 360 because I could not wait to play this game. 
 My initial thoughts were wow, the graphics are amazing with this game but I have since learnt that 
 there are graphically better looking games for the 360, none the less I soildiered on and overall 
 I am very pleased with the game play, if you play any game for long enough you are bound to find 
 flaws with it.
  I found the game very interesting with lots to do, plenty of vehicles to play with, lots of cool 
 weapons and places to explore. I found that occasionally the save points were to far apart and 
 I ended up playing the same part over and over again which started to get abit annoying, maybe 
 that is because I was getting used to the contoller I dont know!
  Occasionally whilst ducking to snipe enemies I found leaves floating around in front of my face 
 which obscured my aim, moving slightly further out meant i got hit!
  Ive played better and I have played worse, overall it will keep you entertained and there is lots 
 to do, its a good game but not a great one!
  Happy Gaming 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheMuffin_man
Rating: 6.3
Date: Nov 30, 2006 2:14 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay- I got this game looking for a great far cry experience. But instead I just got a sloppy 
 port from the xbox version put into higher resolution. The gameplay is basically the same. But 
 the aiming in single player is so clucky its not enjoyable at all. ( Recent patch fixes the chopyness 
 of multiplayers aiming but thats it.
  
  Graphics- Looks like an xbox game. It looks a bit better though because they put it in a higher 
 resolution
  
  sound- I guess the sound is ok nothing special.
  
  value- The single player is low. Because like I said . The clunckyness of the aiming makes it unenjoyable. 
 And Youll have trouble finding people online to play against
  
  tilt- IT comes out just to be a very fair game. That you should rent if you never have played far 
 cry 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vinnie222
Rating: 8.4
Date: Nov 26, 2006 2:01 pm PT
Review:  THE GOOD: Nice story line, Great multiplay and Map editor, 2 games for the price of one.
  
  THE BAD: Graphics while good arn't up to 360 par, If you have the games for xbox there is nothing 
 new Far Cry: Instincts Predator is a show case for online multiplayer on the 360. You can play 
 your friends in some very diffrent game modes and on player made maps. When the game first came 
 out the online was so laggy it was unplayable but it has had a few updates seince then that fixed 
 almost all lag/bugs. Not only is the multiplayer great but the singleplayer is solid too. The story 
 sorta dosent fit with the ending of Far Cry (PC) but that dosent make the storyline any less intreguing. 
 One of the things that keeps you playing through the whole single player experience is the furral 
 powers you gain fairly quickly in the game. these powers add a little excitment to the game. Once 
 you beat the Single player on instincts you unlock Eveloution which is kind of a single player 
 add on. this isnt quite as good as as instincts because the story line is almost non exisint but 
 they traded off the story line for a pretty good open ended add on. The add on allows you to tackle 
 any task at any time. While the game has a lot of good things like the few i mentioned it also 
 has some bad. This game has a very small graphical update from the previous versions of the game. 
 This may or may not put a damper on your experience. Besides the graphics there is a small issue 
 with the multi player while the game types are diffrent they just dont keep your intrest for very 
 long making you want more game types. My last complaint is the multiplayer maps are not really 
 good which forces you to either make your own or download a lot to find a few really good ones 
 All in all this game is a solid game with a good single as well as a great multiplayer experience. 
 Also the add on of eveloution is a nice addition to the pacage
  
  VERDICT: Buy Used 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GodKn0wn
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 18, 2006 11:07 pm PT
Review:  My favorite part of the game is the mapmaker feature. The campaign isn't as good as I thought it 
 would be, but the multiplayer truly stands out. Multiplayer is loads of fun, especially playing 
 on your completed maps. You can publish and play your maps on X-Box Live too. The mapmaker comes 
 with many new features you will like. The multiplayer is unending fun. I suggest you buy this.
 
  
  You're going to love this game for the weapons, vehicles, and predator abilities. These are new 
 and provide you with some deadly advantages against the enemy. For example, you can use your claws 
 to shred the crap out of your foes, tossing them far away from where you stand. It's awesome! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LuthorLex54
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 18, 2006 5:14 pm PT
Review:  Far Cry Instincts Predator is an Interesting Game. It has it's moments, but when it comes to playing 
 a great shooter, it probably isn't worth it.
  
  Gameplay: Far Cry has some interesting game elements that keeps you going for a while. Graphics: 
 The graphics are the best part of this game and the drawback is incredible. Makes you truly feel 
 like you're on a Island. However can kind of dull at points.
  
  Sound: Basic
  
  Far Cry Instincts Predator is a interesting game altogether. The multiplayer is interesting and 
 creating your own maps is cool, but can get old after a while. Worth playing, but not at it's current 
 price. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MonkeySpongezc
Rating: 5.3
Date: Nov 10, 2006 8:56 pm PT
Review:  There isint much to say. He game could have been better but there are better shooters. The PC game 
 is far better than this one. The gameplay is a little out there but the graphics and sound are 
 stunning. Some times in the game you die when you souldent. Like by a greanade or something when 
 it is really far away from you. The games story is rather intresting in the ways that it unfolds. 
 Multi-player in this game so great. It is one of the best multi-player games i have ever played. 
 The screen can have lots of shadow image sometimes. Overall the game could have been much better 
 but the multi player can sometimes really make up for the lack of everything else. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eyebrowless
Rating: 3.6
Date: Nov 10, 2006 10:54 am PT
Review:  i bought this game after seeing all the praise that the original got on the original xbox. since 
 this game has 2 campagns i figured it would be great and last me a while! sounds perfect right? 
 wrong! This is the worst controlling game since Enter the Matrix, no matter what sensitivity i 
 put the analog on, its the same thing: you move it a tiny bit and your aim goes across the freakin 
 screen! I found it impossible to kill anyone unless i was two feet away and they were standing 
 completly still. Since i dont have Xbox Live, i probly could have had a little bit of fun with 
 it, but sadly i didnt. The map editor is pretty sweet. And although the enemies look like butt, 
 the water is THE BEST ive ever seen. I guess the sound was good, i cant complain, and the value 
 could be good (just not for me) . All in all, one of the worst games ive ever played! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BamTino024
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 9, 2006 2:51 pm PT
Review:  Far Cry Instincts Predator is definitely a game with a lot of bang for your buck. For about $40.00, 
 you get two games in one disk: the original Far Cry that came out for Xbox ramped up to Xbox360 
 specs, and the Predator expansion game. Both games will take about 10 hours to play. There isn't 
 much to Far Cry... no sneaking around, no choices to make... just shoot anyone in your path. That's 
 probably why it's so fun to play. The only thing you have to worry about it just blowing the crap 
 out of everyone. The graphics of the game were very good. The lush jungle environments looked very 
 pretty, and were detailed for as far as the eye could see, especially in parts where you were at 
 the top of a mountain and could look all around. The controls were very easy to use, especially 
 aiming, since the game sort of had a bit of an auto-aim feature built it. As long as your aiming 
 reticule was near a target and turned red, the bullets would hit the target. The weapon choices 
 were also very diverse too. There wasn't much to the story. It's pretty much an Island of Dr. Moreau 
 type deal with weird experiments being done on people to make them like animals. You get injected 
 with the animal stuff but have to find a way to get the implant out of you and get off the island. 
 Then expansion game starts where the previous left off... you're on the same island still, but have 
 to defeat one of the experiments who sort of runs the island you're on and is trying to kill you. 
 Still, all of the action is fun and awesome, espically the feral abilities you gain which allow 
 you to run faster, jump higher and farther, see in the dark, and mele-attack people with your feral 
 punch and send them flying. If you're looking for a fun bargain game, definitely pick this one 
 up, because you will get a lot out of it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: StarFry
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 30, 2007 12:41 pm PT
Review:  Jack Carver has been through many platforms from PC to Xbox to now the Next-generation that doesn't 
 need a graphics card. "Far Cry Instincts Predator" is the 360 version of the original. The story 
 is still the same as he drives a boat for a news reporter who goes to this remote tropical island. 
 Hours later he wakes up now being hunted down with his boat destroyed. His task is now to save 
 the news reporter and get the hell out of there. This is not your typical run and gun games which 
 you might figure out already in the first 30 minutes. Its stealth is very cool as you can do tree 
 traps, throws rock to cause sound distraction, and other ways. When you get "powers" after eventually 
 being caught, it kind of seems ridiclous especially that annoying alarm that instantly kills you. 
 The car chases are awesome as the helicopter is chasing you and trying to BOOM you. Overall, the 
 single player is great (Instincts part) . The predator single-player is 50/50 as its the same thing 
 you are in a different island but start off with your powers from Instincts. Its okay but the jumping 
 puzzles are repetive.
  
  The multiplayer is the highlight as you can create your own maps and then let others download it 
 and play in it. Its a cool feature but will take 2-3 hours to fully complete and might take forever 
 if you want it to be truly perfect. The gameplay in multiplayer is okay but feels sometimes slow-paced 
 when it comes to trying to find a person to kill. I love how people create mazes, its cool. Always 
 love a challenge (Sky Bridge, The Steps, IncredaRace, etc.) . Overall, its gameplay is very fun 
 and cool. The graphics could have been better for a 360 game. The sound is great from water to 
 environmental but the guns could have more variety. The tilt is very easy to use. I recommend buying 
 it if you like the previous games and also are interested in buying it actually. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bewarethehorns
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 31, 2006 11:18 am PT
Review:  This game packs some great action. So great that I, from time to time, forgot why I was running 
 around the jungle in the first place, rather I was happy to be wielding dual SMGs and killing an 
 army of unsuspecting mercenaries. The graphics and sound are great which infinitely adds to how 
 I felt immersed in the environment. And it was learning how to best use your environment that added 
 a very nice angle to the game. As an army of one, I found it best to use guerilla tactics to take 
 over my enemy: stalking guards through the brush, distracting them by throwing rocks, sniping from 
 afar, and making quick hit-and-run raids to thin their forces. However, I was not limited to such 
 tactics, I could just as well bring down any sniper towers with a well placed grenade and then 
 run into an encampment guns blazing, picking up much needed health and ammo during my sprees. The 
 only thing that drove me nuts with this game is the enemy AI. Often I would stumble into an enemys 
 peripheral vision or make such a racket near him that I thought I would be discovered, but I was 
 rarely ever found out. I suppose while these guards are fun to dispense with, the game developers 
 are making it too easy. Then there are the soldiers who charge you head on ignoring all cover from 
 my fire. Other soldiers will find cover but will not adjust accordingly to my attacks. All of which 
 sometimes makes the game feel as if it is on a rail. But despite the AI problems, the game is still 
 very consuming and offers fun and quick action that any Fry Cry fan would love and will surly hook 
 anyone who has not already played an older game in the series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mr_Abandon
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 30, 2006 5:06 pm PT
Review:  The single player in this game is great, good story line and lots of action, but it is realy short, 
 you could complete it in under 10 hours or so, and the fact that it has no diffecuty setting and 
 it is a very easy game dont help it out, The Muti player in this game is great, fun and very addictive. 
 The map maker is great and works great and helps in the mutiplayer department. Oh and it is even 
 fun to make the maps. The new story line isnt all that great and its very short. Its not worth 
 the big price tag, but with the mutiplayer and map maker it is worth it if u have xboxlive, but 
 if u dont its not worth it, The Grahis are basicly the same as the xbox game, but the water effects 
 are perfect. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mouthforbathory
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 29, 2006 7:59 pm PT
Review:  I had high hopes for the rebuilt Far Cry Predator Instincts on Xbox 360. Not having an original 
 Xbox, I didn't get to play it. I already was a fan of the original PC version (which is a masterpiece 
 of the FPS genre) . I did purchase an Xbox 360 though last May, and this was the first game I picked 
 up for my white, shiny, hourglass shaped console. Far Cry Instincts Predator also includes the 
 Evolution campaign that is in Far Cry Evolution on the Xbox, so essentially it's two games in one.
 
  
  My first reaction to this game was whoa as I took immediate notice of the beautiful water effects 
 that had been previewed before the game's release. Yes, they are beautiful, and only believable 
 when seen in motion. This is nice, but what about the rest of the graphics and the game? Far Cry 
 Predator Instincts doesn't really climb to a very high apex of overall greatness. What's sad about 
 the Xbox versions of this game was the fact that it's a complete overhaul of the original PC masterpiece 
 that already had things right. Whether the lack of overall RAM in the Xbox required the overhaul 
 or what, this destroyed much of what Far Cry great in the first place such as the massive open 
 enviroments and replayability of it. The gameplay is more on rails rather than open ended, and 
 just an average shooter at best, especially as the controls can be frustrating at times. One thing 
 that bothered me is the lack of range your weapens can fire. When the enemy was a certain distance 
 away, your shots wouldn't even be detected as hitting him. Realism dictates this to be right (due 
 to velocity and ballistics) , but at the same time, when you take effort to line up that shot using 
 a control stick and not a mouse, it's frustrating, especially as the enemy CAN hit you from that 
 distance. Periodic points in the game are very difficult and the controls only seem to make it 
 harder. On the graphics side, the game does immerse you into the enviroment pretty well, but the 
 visuals are not much of a step up from the Xbox version. It uses the same shadowing technique (as 
 you get closer it goes from a faded look to detailed) and the polygonal counts are not that much 
 higher. It's seems that the only upgrades were the added water effects, some bumpmapping, and somewhat 
 higher resolution textures. The graphics are not bad, but the 360 is no where being pushed to it's 
 limits.
  
  One field where Far Cry Instincts Predator is above average is in the multiplayer. Multiple modes 
 as well as a map editor do add alot a value to the game. The Man vs Predator mode is especially 
 interesting as most games (including this one) have capture the flag, deathmatch, and other usual 
 modes, yet this one added something else for once, rarity these days for multiplayer.
  
  Far Cry Instincts Predator is worth a rent, especially if you'd like a well fleshed multiplayer 
 component, a fan of Far Cry on PC, or an FPS afficionado. However, to the gamer looking for a very 
 good game in all aspects, look to Call of Duty 2. It can be entertaining yet frustrating, an aspect 
 of many games these days. It's just above marginally good, but against a slew of other titles out 
 and games due to come out in November, it's not anything special. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: anasazi23
Rating: 5
Date: Oct 29, 2006 12:48 pm PT
Review:  My PC ran out of juice video-card wise a number of months ago, so I eagerly anticipated getting 
 this installment for the 360. What a disappointment. The game's premise seems good, but the execution 
 is mind-numbingly annoying and frustrating. You take the 1st person role of a typical semi-interesting 
 storyline whereby you are stuck in the Jucatan fighting for your life. You develop instinct powers 
 that are largely useless and feel tacked-on.
  
  The environment is largely the same, with lush jungles and some hut villages that allow your view 
 to be obscured, but allow snipers 1/2 mile away to see you and pick you off while you have a leaf 
 in your face obstructing your view.
  
  At least you can reload and be more careful at that same spot, right?
  Wrong.
  There are pre-determined 
 save spots that seem miles apart, ensuring that you play the same frustrating showdown half a dozen 
 times before you get lucky enough to get it right.
  
  There are few games I actually stopped playing prior to their finish due to frustration and repetitiveness. 
 This is one of them. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brentc
Rating: 8.8
Date: Oct 26, 2006 12:16 pm PT
Review:  better than i thought it would be. the graphics are pretty good and the gameplay has some unique 
 aspects to it that were a nice suprise. the controls are easy to get used to if you've played any 
 first person shooters before which makes for an easy quick game to pick up and explore. the levels 
 remind me a lot of the jungle level for goldeneye on the 64. the weapons are cool to use and ammo 
 is a little hard to come by so you have to use a bit of strategy. i also like how your character 
 can duck, crawl, jump and do all of that vs some games that don't allow you to jump or crawl. it 
 gives the game more options and keeps it interesting. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xxLordGxx
Rating: 8.8
Date: Oct 24, 2006 2:55 pm PT
Review:  This game has the best map editor on any console. if you put time into your maps, you can make 
 a masterpiece. Anyway, this is a great game on the Xbox 360. The single-player campaign is fun 
 and challenging. The multiplayer is great if you have a good connection, and playing on other peoples' 
 maps is always a great way to see what talent the rest of the community has. The map editor is 
 possibly the best element of this game. It's fun, easy to use, and when you get the hang of it, 
 you can make some truly great maps. Anyway, If you're a fan of first-person shooters, FCI: Predator 
 is a great buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crazy8_882000
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 23, 2006 4:30 pm PT
Review:  This game Is one of the first great games I played on the xbox 360. So comparing it to what I played 
 so far it kicks ass!!!! Comparing this game to -OBLIVION, TEST DRIVE UNLIMITED, CALL OF DUTY 2, AND 
 HITMAN BLOOD MONEY (WHICH IS WHAT I PLAYED SO FAR) this is by far the best in gameplay and definatly 
 in graphics I think A 9.6 sounds pretty right on. I gave up on the 360 and thought there was no 
 good games out until around the time of Halo 3, and assassins creed or Turok 3 all hit games coming 
 in the near 2007, But when I just recently got this game and turned it on it literally had me amazed 
 I was caught in the tense action and couldnt move from my spot.... I didnt blink for so long that 
 my eye contacts got stuck to my eyes and I had to go clean them! The kick ass Tense and realistic 
 graphics and sound and all the action this game offers makes it a must have such as the big hit 
 series Halo 3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jaclarks
Rating: 8.3
Date: Oct 23, 2006 9:14 am PT
Review:  I purchased and played Far Cry for the xbox360 because I had never played any other Far Cry Game.... 
 and it still wasnt that great.
  
  The water graphics are amazing I can tell you that right now, but besides that, the games graphics 
 are no better than the xbox version with some better textures due to being HD (and yes I play it 
 on an HDTV)
  
  The game was nice and long for an FPS due to being both xbox games. So no complaints there. But 
 it really does feel as if you are simply playing an xbox game on your 360... so dont get to excited 
 and dont even touch if you have played the xbox games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jdawg1003
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 21, 2006 7:35 pm PT
Review:  i give tis game a 9.5 the game is a great game a game that every person should have the game is 
 openended you have many differnt things to do and so little time to do it. the replay value is 
 at a good rate to there are many differant things that u can do to finish a oblective if you want 
 to fly down the hill you can if you want to blast your way down the hill go fore it not onley is 
 this the first game that i played but the story line will be in my head fore the rest of my life. 
 it stats off good and ends good. Jdawg1003 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BANDESGANG
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 13, 2006 12:47 pm PT
Review:  To start out I need to tell you that this is my favorite 360 game. I bought it the first week it 
 came out and I'm still playing it more than any other game in my collection. I only play multiplayer 
 now unless I lose my internet connection, then I'll dabble with the single player. The graphics 
 are really good. Just a step below games like Half-life and Oblivion. The control has a really 
 good feel. Not too sensitive and not too sloppy. The variety in weapons and vehicles is awesome. 
 With the predator abilities, there is an almost endless amount of stratagies you can use to be 
 successful during matches. There are several multiplayer game modes to select from: Chaos, team 
 chaos, steal the sample, predator to name my favorite. The best part of this game though, is the 
 map creator. The quality of maps a gamer can make in unparalled in console gaming. The Map Editor 
 is the most user friendly and intuitive editor ever created. That alone is reason enough to try 
 this game. There is nothing like working on a map for a few days and testing it then invite your 
 friends list and stangers to try it after you publish it. You get honest feedback instantly. I 
 actually get a hint of the feeling game makers get after they complete a game. Every night I hop 
 online and get to try some new user created maps. Now there are plenty of ugly duckings out there 
 that you won't play more than once. But there are also dozens of maps that are incredible creative 
 and a blast to play. Up to 16 players can play at once. A match with 6 players or more can get 
 really rockin'. If you like FPS games don't miss out on this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RocketMasterH2F
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 9, 2006 9:52 pm PT
Review:  Far Cry Instincts: Predator starts you off with two stories to play through on three different 
 diffculties, a online mode which will blow you away, and a Map Editor perfect for a console. In the 
 first Story of Far cry predator you star out as jack carver, a ex-navy drunk who finds himself being 
 at the wrong place at the wrong time. His boat is destoryed by mercenaries and he must find a way 
 to escape. Soon after a few firefights you become a predator, a deformed man with Feral powers, which 
 include Feral punch, smell, sight, speed, and jump. You must find a way to escape the dreaded Island 
 your on. The evolution story picks up a few months after the Instincts story. You get in bed with 
 a girl, become her bodyguard, and the get attacked by rebels. In this Evolution story you start out 
 with your feral abilities. Also this story is shorter than the first but still very fun. The online 
 mode is very fun and very fast-paced. The modes for online are Chaos, team chaos, steal the sample, predator, and 
 seek and secure. The modes are very fun to play and will keep you playing for a long time. The map 
 editor is also a cool tool to use. You can make your very own base to run around in, islands to fight 
 on, and many more fun things to make. The graphics in this game are fair but some times have its 
 pronlems. The water looks amazing but the things around it don't but for what they are they look 
 good just not very next gen. The achievments are mostly very challenging to get and most can be 
 found online so you'll be spending awhile with this game if your a achievment junkie. So Far Cry 
 Instincts: Predator for Xbox 360 is great game and if you a 360 and a taste for first-person shooters 
 then this is your game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: andrewmickey14
Rating: 7.8
Date: Oct 8, 2006 9:24 am PT
Review:  Far Cry Instincts Predator for the 360 is a consolation of Far Cry: Instincts on the original xbox 
 and a new campaign called Far Cry: Evolutions which puts you once again in the shoes of Jack Carver 
 basically doing the same thing in Instincts: killing a WHOLE lot of sh##. Both the Instincts and 
 Evolution games have updated graphics.
  First, the gameplay. What can I say more but the feral abilities rock. They really add a new kind 
 of depth to the gameplay since you have so many powers to use from. Most of them are necessary 
 in the game especially for Evolutions. In Instincts you dont start off with Feral abilities but 
 you soon will. Carver is Injected with some kind of Serum from a guy named Crow under the direction 
 of Dr. Kreiger. There are some apparant flaws though to the gameplay that hold it back. The A. I. 
 on your enemies side is rather dumb. Miss a sniper shoot? No problem, they'll just keep on doing 
 what their doing. It's also really easy to sneek up on them, even though you may be making a ton 
 of noise. They rarely use cover, and never work as a team should (unlike the amazing PC version) . 
 Also, the game has an arcady feel to it unlike the amazing PC version that spawned it.
  Yeah on the box it says they upgraded both of these games to have Jaw-dropping visuals . Did they 
 lie? Yes. I had a hard time telling if I was playing an xbox game or a next-gen 360 one. Most of 
 the textures looked washed out and the character models are very bland and bad. The graphics somewhat 
 get better in Evolutions, but not by much. Still, some things look good such as you can see over 
 1 km which is impressive. Also, the water in this game, I must say, is amazing for the most part. 
 It's strongest in big oceans and weakest when its trying to simulate a small creek or pond. In 
 any case, the reflections on the water is awsome. I only wish it was more interactive.
  The sound is decent for this kind of game. The voice acting for the main characters is decent, 
 as for the enemies. It may be over the top and campy at times but it does its job to progress the 
 story. Sometimes, though, I had a hard time telling what they were saying, sounded like they were 
 talking under their breathe, making me have to turn the volume up a lil'. The weapons sound good, 
 but lack a lil omph I expect in fps these days. Also, some of the sounds the enemies make in battle 
 can get quite annoying too.
  What can I say at the end of the day but Far Cry on the 360 is worth picking up if you have never 
 played Instincts and if you like fps. A ton of content is included here, with 2 campaigns and a 
 map editor to boot which can be time-consuming but very fun and test your creativity. the multiplayer 
 online or off is exciting especially with a patch that has come out reducing lag to a minimum. 
 Try out this game, have fun, but dont expect it to ever each the level of intensity of the PC version. 
 7.9 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bigshot_Drum
Rating: 7.2
Date: Oct 3, 2006 9:17 am PT
Review:  Having 1st played the original PC FarCry, I noticed the graphical difference very first thing when 
 popping this game into my 360. The game does display in HD formats, but just because the resolution 
 is good, it doesn't mean that the game engine is taking advantage on it's part. The game does introduce 
 some good playing abilities, like scent hunting and some cool super-human strength type stuff, 
 but other then that it is your basic FPS. FCI is a lot like the original in the sense that it really 
 isn't a game that you would choose to run into enemy territory with all guns blazing. The AI is 
 well done, for the most part, and they deffinitley try and kill you to the best of their abilities. 
 Setting traps is a cool feature of this game but it's pretty difficult to persuade the enemy to 
 walk near the trap. The vehicle aspects are very similar to FC, so if you like the way those vehicles 
 drove you'll be happy with these as well. I personally prefer a 3rd person view while driving so 
 I didn't like the 1st person mode very much at all. Overall the game is fun and has some pretty 
 easy achievement points if you're playing just for those. If you like a good FPS and don't set 
 your expectations too high then FCI wont dissapoint. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BoSox09
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 1, 2006 3:27 pm PT
Review:  Its such a good game overall from its graphics to its gameplay. If u own a 360 either rent it or 
 buy its amazing. I say that the kinda weak rating gamespot gives it is not right its deserves a 
 8.5 to a 9.1 its that good
  
  I wouldnt pass up on this game. buy it. I enjoyed the weapons and the cool creature mode it was 
 really cool. I have to say its one of my favorite 360 games.
  Its online play is good too. Jack Carver was a good main character. It did have alot of language 
 though. But that doesnt take away any value 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smiggles116
Rating: 8.2
Date: Sep 15, 2006 11:48 pm PT
Review:  While the cover says that this game is an expansion to the Far Cry series, this game is just another 
 port. While this is not a bad thing, all the problems that where in the console edition of Far 
 Cry Instinics have made a very noticable return. While most pepole will forgive this game for it's 
 flaws thanks to it's fantastic single player story and great multi-player, there really is no excuss 
 for this, considering the power of the 360. Let's start with the campaign. While the AI has been 
 enhanced (barely) and the draw distance has been greatly increased, the improvments can't hide 
 the fact that this game is just a port. However, the graphics are insanly beautiful and the jungle 
 inviroments (which make up 3/4 of the game) are incredibly lush and massive. Charecter models still 
 lok a bit outdated, and so do the weapons, but that dosen't make the game suck. Thankfully, the 
 great story is still here, along with the insane action and intense gun-fights. There is always 
 an option to either go all-out or go stealthy. The chocie is up to the player. which adds a layer 
 of realism to the title. While the game contians a brand new campaign dubbed Evolutions, the mode 
 is about 4-5 long, which is a bit dissapionting. On the plus side, the Evolutions campaing offers 
 lager enviroments for the player to explore, making the mode worth a few extra play-throughs. However, 
 the most annoying flaw in this game is that you must play through the frist campaing befor you 
 play the second. Bummer. Prehaps the best thing about this game is it's multi-player. While the 
 game dose come with some well thought out maps, the real draw here is the ablility to creat your 
 own multi-player maps and play them on Xbox Live. Trust me, I've seen some really creative maps 
 that are very impressive. But I've seen others that really suck too. Oh well... The tool system 
 you use to creat the maps with is a bit frusturating at frist, but later it becomes second nature. 
 As for the in-game controls, everything functions nicly, but aiming is a bit on the slow side, 
 and vehicle controls suck as bad a Paris Hilton's acting. Honestly, the slightest movement could 
 send you jeep flying off a cliff or into a ditch. To make things worse, you are always in the frist-preson 
 view mode while in a vehicle. It's just one of those things you must deal with. The sound is a bit 
 standard, with decent wepon and explosion effects, but the main draw to the audio is the hilarious 
 (but corny) voice acting. That all I have to say about that. Please forgive me for any spelling 
 mistakes I have made. Sorry. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: beachde2
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 12, 2006 5:53 am PT
Review:  This was one of the first games I got for Xbox 360. I really liked it. Visually it was awesome. 
 The water textures and islands are very impressive. I never played any of the games in the series 
 before so it was all new to me. You really get the feeling of being some animal stalking prey in 
 the game after you develop some of your feral powers. Also its fun to slash up your enemies into 
 little pieces with just your hands. Haven't played online yet but I heard that is where the real 
 value is. If it is near as good as tey say, this is well worth buying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Silly5
Rating: 9.3
Date: Sep 10, 2006 1:58 pm PT
Review:  If you ever played the orignal xbox version and are still wondering if this one is worth it, then 
 you are right. I played and beat the two xbox versions of the game and just recently bought this 
 one. When I first got it I thought it would still be a good game but might let me down a little. 
 I was totaly wrong. The game is totaly polished up and revamped a little bit, and the graphics 
 are very good and Im only playing it on a standard tv. The weapon models are different from the 
 xbox versions and look a lot better. The game has an excelnt story and very creative and new. Both 
 single and multiplayer seem the same but the game gives you eneough difference and new settings 
 that it almost seems like a new game. If you are a fan of Far Cry then deffinatley get this game. 
 If you don't have an xbox360 then dont buy one just for this game. Do I recondmend this? Yes! Highly. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shawn7324
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 7, 2006 1:03 pm PT
Review:  I had always been completely a Sony Playstation Fan, talking bad about other systems for which 
 I usually knew little or nothing about. I bought the original Far Cry Instincts Xbox game on Ebay 
 and took it to my Brother's house to see whether or not Xbox was really as bad as I was lead to 
 believe. Not long into the game, was I blown away and upset for all I had been missing. So after 
 buying the 360 this game was at the top of my list. Far Cry Instincts Predator takes two games 
 and unites them into one creating a new game, filled with good graphics and exciting game play. 
 The controls are perfect and the story is very interesting, and this game is a must buy for every 
 Xbox 360 owner. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drummer04
Rating: 7.8
Date: Sep 1, 2006 9:24 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay - First off the gameplay is very solid. Theres a lot to do in the game.... First you can 
 play instincs story mode wich took me about 12 hours to complete... And then you have the evolution 
 story wich took me about 6 hours to complete. The single player is rock solid and will keep you 
 busy a little while. The multiplayer is probablly the best part of the game feautring some great 
 multiplayer modes as well as some great weapons.
  
  Graphics- The graphics in this game look like a xbox game in a higher resolution but there not 
 bad. They still look ok.
  
  Sound- Not much I can say in sound its not excellent nor terrible. Solid sound all around Value- 
 The pretty good value in this game. Featuring a lot to do in the single player aspect. As well 
 as the multiplater aspect.
  
  tilt- It all comes out to be a very solid game and should be at least rented by anyone who hasent 
 played far cry and is a fan a fps... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheKretinousQ
Rating: 9.1
Date: Sep 1, 2006 3:26 pm PT
Review:  I love Far Cry on the PC an played a very small amount of Instincts on the original Xbox. Luckily.
 
  
  FCIP is the Instincts game from the Xbox bundled with the new chapter Evolution also with an improved 
 map making suite and Xbox Live capability. Unfotunately the current situation with the online play 
 means that games lag and getting a kill means putting a lot of holes in someone! However Ubisoft 
 are working flat out on a patch for FCIP to fix all these things and make it better.
  
  That over with the single player is great fun and the game itself doesn't feel dated at all, the 
 only thing that does feel that way is the graphics. But since when did that get in the way of a 
 great game?
  
  If you are a fan of the Far Cry series like moi I suggest you think well despite the fact you like 
 the series because if you played Instincts there isn't all that much here to do if not however 
 its a great game and its due for a hefty price drop.
  
  TKQ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ubiquityxx
Rating: 8.4
Date: Sep 1, 2006 12:22 am PT
Review:  I played the original Farcry on the PC back in 2004. Although the graphics and sound implored you 
 sit up and take notice, there were some serious flaws in the story line and missions which ultimately 
 took away from the overall experience. Can you say mutants with rocket launchers on steel girders?
 
  
  Regardless, it'll go down in my personal black book as one classic title.
  
  After the release of Farcry on the Xbox, the 360 port delivered the same game with the added bonus 
 of HD support and an additional story line campaign. Quite a value if you missed the first two 
 and are looking for a killer FPS on the 360.
  
  I remember at GDC2004 while wandering the halls of the expo I came across a booth with a massive 
 screen displaying some of the most intense firefights and visuals I'd seen in a game. Lush islands, 
 crazy draw distances, water, boats ... I mean complete inverse of all other FPS's on the market. 
 It happened to be the Fort level of Farcry.
  
  I immediately went home and downloaded the demo. And waited in quiet anticipation for the imminent 
 release of the game. I ended up playing and designing levels for this game the remainder of 2004.
 
  
  I tell you this because that's the feeling you'll experience while playing through the entire game. 
 The graphics and sound are great and save feature is seamless. Immersion factor is high. You're 
 always discovering new skills which are constantly reinforced throughout both campaigns. It's just 
 fun. And the cussin is great, you dirty sailor!
  
  The control scheme makes this game a joy. And this is coming from a die-hard PC gamer. I've refused 
 to play FPS titles on consoles for years until I sat down for a few levels. It was intuitive and 
 fun to play. I was comfortable with the control mechanism 15 minutes into playing. 
  
  Unfortunately there's always a little blemish to be found beneath pristine surfaces. And Farcry 
 Instincts Predator is no exception:
  
  Level size - Ok, they're insane ... but like a run-on sentence you never know when they're going 
 to end. Honestly at hour 20 I'd wish they would have been more terse in their story lines. Bring 
 it home already.
  
  By the way, the level design in both campaigns is some of freshest I've seen in this series and 
 by far trumps the original PC version. The feral abilities add a dimension to the game play sorely 
 missed in the original.
  
  There are some very difficult choke points in this game, To the point of frustrating. You know 
 something is wrong with the flow of a mission when it takes multiple deaths to pass specific points 
 in the level.
  
  Not good when the person playing just wants the level to end. That said, thank god for a forgiving 
 save system.
  
  A great title for the 360 and a value to the wallet. Enjoy.
  
  On a final note - load screens can be used for more than repeating imagery. These guys got it wrong 
 and drove me nuts the entire experience. Why not show the status of the loading data ... how about 
 delivering some background to the level you're about to play? Please tell me there's more to a 
 load screen than repeating a dozen or so images and bland copy over the course of 30 hours? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: neutralx2
Rating: 8.2
Date: Sep 13, 2006 11:30 am PT
Review:  Far Cry Instincts Predator is a repackaging of the Xbox game Far Cry Instincts and its stand alone 
 expansion Far Cry Instincts: Evolution. There are some minor differences between the two, such 
 as improved graphics, but this is more or less the same game that came out months earlier on the 
 original Xbox. It is important to make that clear right away so there is no confusion over what 
 exactly you are getting.
  
  For the main campaign, Far Cry Instincts Predator puts you step into the shoes of Jack Carver, 
 a retired Navy commando who now pays the bills by taking tourists out on his boat. After being 
 hired by a woman to take her to a mysterious tropical island, Jack finds himself on the receiving 
 end of a helicopter gunship. With his boat destroyed, Jack must find a way to rescue the woman 
 and get off of the island. Of course that sounds a lot easier then it actually is. You will discover 
 that there are some odd things going on deep inside the jungle, something that an army of mercenaries 
 dont want you to discover.
  
  The games setting is probably the most important part of the game. The entire main campaign takes 
 place on one huge lush tropical island. This setting opens the game up to some interesting gameplay. 
 For most of the game you must rely on Guerrilla warfare since you are almost always outgunned. 
 Hiding in the jungle and sneaking around is a big part of the game. It is possible to sneak up 
 on enemies and perform stealth kills by stabbing them in the back. You can also set branch traps 
 on trees, and then throw rocks to lure unsuspecting enemies to their death. There isnt much that 
 is more satisfying then taking out whole groups of enemies without any of them ever seeing you. 
 While stealth is more of a suggestion rather then a strict requirement, you will have a much easier 
 time covertly taking out as many mercenaries as you can then if you run in guns blazing.
  
  Thats not to say that there isnt a ton of gunplay to be found in the game. The firefights can 
 be pretty intense at times. There is a pretty good selection of weapons, though they are pretty 
 much what you would expect to see. You have your assault rifles, machine guns, sniper rifles, shotguns 
 and more. Jack can carry three weapons at once: a pistol, a medium weapon like an assault rifle, 
 and a heavy weapon like a rocket launcher. This doesnt include grenades or claymores that you 
 can use as well. You can also dual-wield many of the games smaller weapons.
  
  Your most effective weapon in the game though is definitely your own two hands. Not too far into 
 the game, Jack becomes a victim of one of the strange experiments going on (this is written on 
 the box, so its not really a spoiler) . The experiment gives you feral abilities like super human 
 strength and speed. Early on you can essentially rip enemies apart with your own bare hands. As 
 you progress through the game, you are constantly getting new tricks. For example, you will gain 
 the ability to pick of sent trails from your enemies, or run extremely fast and jump incredible 
 distances.
  
  You can also take control of a few vehicles in the game. These range from ground vehicles like 
 ATVs to water craft like jet skis. There are even a few hang gliders in the game which you can 
 use to fly around the huge environments. While you can shoot while in the vehicles, driving and 
 shooting is pretty difficult. The awkward vehicle physics can make a lot of the vehicles frustrating 
 to control. You will mostly use the vehicles simply as a way to travel across the big levels.
 
  
  There is also a pretty good variety in the environments. While most of the levels take place in 
 large outdoor jungles, there are a few underground levels as well as a volcano fortress to mix 
 things up a bit. This keeps the levels feeling pretty fresh throughout since looking at a bunch 
 of trees the entire time could get a bit boring. On the PC, Far Cry featured very open ended levels, 
 where you could pretty much pick your own path through the island and tackle objectives in a variety 
 of ways. This seems to have been scaled back for the console game. The underground levels, which 
 last for a good amount of time, are completely linear. The outdoor levels do offer you more freedom 
 then most first person shooter, but they feel pretty linear compared to the original Far Cry game. 
 Perhaps this was due to technical limitations of the first Xbox, but it is unfortunate that one 
 of the best features of the original game has been watered down.
  
  Once you have finished the Instincts campaign, which should take you around 12 hours or so to complete, 
 there is the Evolution campaign for you to tackle. It is no big surprise that it is actually pretty 
 similar to the main campaign. It is an expansion after all. This time around however Jack Carver 
 is hired by a woman (again) to help her with some illegal gun-running. As you would expect, things 
 dont go as planned. Shortly after delivering the weapons, rebels attack, stranding Jack on another 
 tropical island. While the expansion is still a good amount of fun, it doesnt manage to meet the 
 same level of excitement as the first campaign. This is mostly because it doesnt manage to feel 
 as fresh.
  
  Since this game is set in a tropical island very similar to the last one, the game plays almost 
 exactly the same. There are, however, a few changes in the level design that are worth mentioning. 
 On the good side, some of the levels feel a lot more open ended this time around. For example, 
 early on you will have multiple objectives across a few smaller islands that you can tackle in 
 any order you want by using boats to travel between them. On the bad side, the game has some very 
 annoying jumping puzzles later on that seem to simply be there to extend the length of the game. 
 Also, sometimes there are infinite amounts of enemies that spawn in. It may take a while to realize 
 what is going on and that you are supposed to just move on.
  
  There is one bug that shows up pretty often during both campaigns that deserves mentioning. The 
 bug involves locking onto enemies to use your claw attack. Similar to the sword attack in Halo 
 2, when you target an enemy to attack them with your claws, the game automatically has you fly 
 in a straight line towards your target until you hit them. The problem is that it is extremely 
 easy to get stuck on objects while flying towards your victim. When you do, you will be unable 
 to move until the game gives you back control. The problem is that it takes way too long for the 
 game to realize that you are stuck and give you back control. There will be many times when you 
 will die because of this, and it can be extremely frustrating at times.
  
  There is not much else to say about the expansion campaign. Its pretty much just more of the Instincts 
 gameplay with a new storyline. But that is not necessarily a bad thing since Instincts was pretty 
 fun. The Evolution campaign should take most players around 6 to 8 hours to finish. After finishing 
 both campaigns, there is still the multiplayer left to check out.
  
  Far Cry Instincts Predator has great Xbox Live support. It is one of the few games to feature an 
 easy to use map. Its surprisingly easy to create your own levels. Most of the map editing is point 
 and click, so you can very quickly develop and test your own ideas. When connecting to a game running 
 a custom map, it is automatically downloaded. The custom map editor combined with a good number 
 of retail maps and game types makes the multiplayer experience pretty solid. You could easily spend 
 a good amount of time playing this game online.
  
  Overall, Far Cry Instincts Predator is a pretty good game. It is a complete package that features 
 a ton of content and is definitely the best version of Far Cry to date. That being said, if you 
 already own Far Cry Instincts on the Xbox, there is not enough here to warrant buying the game 
 again. You would be better off just buying the expansion separately. But if you have yet to play 
 Instincts, this is the best version to play.
  
  ---
  
  On a side note, I have to take issue with some of the other reviews for this game out there. Review 
 sites such as Gamespot gave Far Cry Instincts a significantly higher score then Far Cry Instincts 
 Predator. Considering Predator contains Instincts and Evolution as well as some minor upgrades, 
 it is definitely the better version of the game and in my opinion deserves a higher, not lower, 
 score then the original. The gamplay is no less fun today as it was when the game first came out 
 on the Xbox. The lack of true next generation content (such as a major upgrade to the graphics) 
 does not make the game any less fun then it already was. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gta11
Rating: 9.6
Date: Aug 29, 2006 12:08 am PT
Review:  Far Cry Instincts Prdator For XBOX 360.
  
  First off ill just say this has the funniest multiplayer in the history of games.
  
  Before 
 starting the review, let me say that if you own FarCry: Instincts on the original Xbox, DON'T buy 
 this one. The majority of the single-player game is a remake, with a short new section after you 
 beat the original. I only own the 360 one, and I suggest buying it only if you are new to FarCry.
 
  
  You are Jack Carver. Your boat has just been blown up and the women who you were hired by has disappeared. 
 But not to worry, as Jack has a history of... being a badass. The short of it being, you're now 
 stranded on an island with a whole load of hostile mercenaries, and a man named Doyle has enlisted 
 your help - you help him sort out some bad guys, he'll help you get off the island alive. But all 
 this gets complicated very quickly. The story is somewhat different from the PC version, kind've 
 like an alternate timeline of events, but essentially remain the same... Until the whole special 
 abilities part. Don't get me wrong though, the game is COMPLETELY different in its levels and gameplay.
 
  
  GAMEPLAY : Sneak, run, gun, and explore your way through a gigantic island. This game is extremely 
 strong in the gameplay department, as you can use stealth, brute force (literally, in some cases) 
 and even crude traps to defeat the mercenaries you'll be agressively slaughtering. Later in the 
 game you gain unusual abilities that let you see scent trails and kill enemies with your bare hands, 
 which makes the game much more interesting. The multiplayer is great as well, so you won't get 
 bored of this one. This is where the game really shines. Cutscenes are brilliantly done in a first-person 
 view; you literally see everything Jack sees, AS he does it. This works to make me feel really 
 immersed in the game, as the cutscenes alone were just plain fun to watch. Otherwise, it's standard 
 1st-person shooting. You're one guy running around an island (or islands) trying to get out alive. 
 Naturally, basically anything that isn't a rock is trying to kill you. You can only carry 3 guns 
 at a time - small arms (pistols, desert eagles etc.) , then the larger guns (shotgun, sub-machine 
 guns etc.) and finally heavy arms (rocket launcher, sniper rifle etc.) I often found myself begging 
 the game to provide a new type of weapon, as in the beginning you will play a long time with the 
 first guns you find, before you find something new and exciting to kill with. Smaller guns can 
 be dual-wielded, like submachine guns and pistols (shamefully not shotguns though) .
  
  Sometime through the game you will pick up Feral abilities; basically you can now punch REALLY 
 hard, heal slowly, run really quickly and see enemies in what can be described as a "heat-vision/night-vision 
 cross". These do really add to the gameplay as you're no longer restricted completely to "run and 
 gun" gameplay. Vehicles also play a fun important part. Jet-ski's, 4x4's, hang-gliders... It's 
 all useable. Some of the vehicle controls could have been a bit smoother, but the variety is well 
 implemented.
  
  The beginning gives you the choice between gunning everyone down in sight or playing it sneaky; 
 set a branch-whip trap on a tree, throw a rock to draw your victim's attention... WHACK. But after 
 getting found out repeatedly, you'll eventually just resort to plain shooting. After the first 
 few hours, there's not really much choice, as there aren't good opportunities to be sneaky. Staying 
 hidden seemed to depend on whether or not the AI felt like seeing me. Sometimes you can be REALLY 
 close to someone and stay hidden; other times you'll be hidden but a guy at 100m will start shooting 
 at you. Another trick is crawling underneath a hut, turning on your back, and shooting the guy 
 through the floorboards - this just fizzled out after the first 2 hours as there were neither huts 
 not floorboards to opportunistically shoot through! Did the developers just forget about this?
 
  
  
  GRAPHICS : Let's start visually. The game is GORGEOUS. A lot of work has gone into making this 
 one seriously visual game. The water is crystal, the trees are abundant, and most of all it's just 
 a pleasure to look at. The few small complaints I can honestly say I have are that the game does 
 lag at times, not nearly as bad as it could do on a PC mind you, but the lag is sometimes noticeable. 
 Annoying? Slightly. But this by no means detracts from anything at the end of the day. Also, for 
 a next-gen system game I do think some graphics could be more polished, but when you take into 
 account the abundance of objects on-screen some lag does make sense.
  
  
  SOUND : WOW. Enemies talk, the main character cries out in pain, and the explosions, bullets, and 
 ambient effects sound great. Music, while sparse, is pretty good as well. The only problem is that 
 some of the guns sound kind of... well, lame. Plus, there are glitches with the second player's 
 sound in split screen. Other than that, very nice.
  
  
  Original, fresh, and inspired. Plus, Jack Carver is one of the biggest badass on the 360 right 
 now. I'm not kidding, he's right up there with Sam Fisher and Leon Kennedy, the reigning badasses 
 of other systems. This game has a surprisingly developed storyline for a first person shooter, 
 and while it's certainly no Shakespeare, you will be interested in finding out what happens next.
 
  
  
  This game has more replay value than any FPS ever made, beyond a shadow of a doubt. First off, 
 there are multiple paths to take through the game, and multiple paths within those paths. Next, 
 the multiplayer is addicting enough to have you blowing away people you don't know for weeks on 
 end. Finally, the cherry on top is the game's exceptional map editor. Although maps eat up hard 
 drive space like nothing else, you can literally play on a different map every match on Live. Not 
 to mention, the editor is strong enough for you to make some real gems yourself. This game refuses 
 to get boring; even a month after buying it, I'm still having fun.
  
  An excellent shooter. While there's nothing new from the last game except new multiplayer stuff 
 and a short new segment of the story, new FarCriers will eat this up for weeks on end. Plus, the 
 map editor simply rocks.
  
  
  Buy! You will be making and playing maps for months after you buy it, and the Xbox Live is great 
 even without new maps although i haven't played Live yet. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 50centsteelers
Rating: 9.4
Date: Aug 26, 2006 6:13 pm PT
Review:  Far Cry Instincts was one of the best first person shooters ever created for xbox. Far Cry Instincts 
 Evolution, the sequel to that, is another amazing first person shooter for the xbox. These two 
 games, both with enhanced graphics, are put into an amazing package with unique predator gameplay 
 that every first person shooter fan should have.
  Also, there is the online mode. There are many unique maps that can be played online, with changeable 
 weapon sets, many unique vehicles including hang gliders, boats, jet skis, trucks, and ATVs, and 
 many game modes, including predator. The online gameplay of Far Cry Instincts Predator is an amazing 
 adventure.
  Overall, it is one of the most impressive xbox 360 games released thus far. It is definitely good 
 enough to be in any xbox 360 owner's collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheCritic9392
Rating: 9.3
Date: Aug 20, 2006 6:05 pm PT
Review:  The Far Cry series made its debut back in 2004, on the PC. The game was a critically acclaimed 
 PC powerhouse, which ended up winning a few awards. Last November, the game was ported over to 
 Microsoft's console the Xbox with the title of Far Cry: Instincts. This version was also hailed 
 by critics and opened up a whole new audience to the game, allowing console owners to experience 
 this excellent adventure. It wasn't long until an expansion was put into the works (it's not really 
 a full-fledged sequel, just more of the same) . This expansion, entitled: Far Cry Instincts: Evolution 
 was released on the Xbox, for a bargain price, and gave Xbox owners enhanced multiplayer via Xbox 
 Live. 
  
  Since Microsoft never put Far Cry: Instincts on their backwards compatibility list, the developer 
 Ubisoft decided to enhance the original Far Cry: Instincts, package it with the new Far Cry Instincts: 
 Evolution, throw in a map editor, and put it on the Xbox 360. The result is nothing short of what 
 you'd expect from a Far Cry game, and more.
  
  Pros: Intuitive controls, amazing graphics (especially with the water effects) , lush; tropical 
 setting, tons of vehicles to commandeer, you're getting two games, a map editor, and great Xbox 
 Live support for $30.
  
  Cons: Achievements aren't too easy to earn, the difficulty can be pretty brutal, vehicle controls 
 aren't too great, sometimes the start button is a bit unresponsive, some levels get a bit repetitive, 
 spotty AI.
  
  Gameplay: You play as Jack Carver, a cynical, salty, former Navy SEAL who now charters boats out 
 to tourists. On a routine trip over to a seemingly-deserted island, Jack lets a young woman go 
 off on her own with a simple: "be back on time", and falls to sleep. 
  
  Jack wakes up to helicopters and gunfire. He jumps off deck into the water, losing his boat in 
 the process. Now he must fight his way through tons of guerilla mercenaries, evil scientists, and 
 set plenty of traps in order to survive. 
  
  The game in general controls very well. The game's basic control layout is very typical FPS controls, 
 and that's not a bad thing. FPS nuts will have no problem with the controls, as will novices. 
 
  
  To throw some variety into the mix, there are plenty of turrets and vehicles that you can commandeer. 
 The controls for the vehicles just aren't too tight. They'd probably be fine if the vehicle driving 
 wasn't in first person. You see, the there are a lot of ramps that you can perform jumps off of 
 in most of the vehicular segments of the game. I can't tell you how many times I've screwed up 
 because of not hitting the ramp right and having to abandon my vehicle. With trial and error, you 
 will eventually get it right, but that trial and error shouldn't really be necessary in the first 
 place. We can only hope that Ubisoft gives us a 3rd person option for the next game.
  
  The thing that separates Far Cry from the other FPS series is the whole "animal" thing. You don't 
 get these animal abilities until a good few hours into the Instincts campaign. Once you do, however, 
 it's a lot of fun to use. The main attack is called the "Feral Claw" which basically makes Jack 
 into an overgrown human cat..... with superhuman strength. When you use the claw, your enemies not 
 only die, but go flying incredibly far. It's just as amusing as it sounds. 
  
  Aside from the Feral Claw, Jack also is able to heal when he's not taking fire. This makes the 
 game vastly easier, and gives you a healthy does of revenge on the mercenaries who put you through 
 hell earlier in the game. Your hearing is also heightened, allowing you to eavesdrop on enemy conversations 
 from incredibly far away. 
  
  When fighting the mercenaries, you'll be able to set traps in the woods. These are also amusing 
 and will kill the mercenary instantly. When your foes are not on high alert, you may find one with 
 his back turned. By pressing B, you execute a stealth kill. These come in handy for when you do 
 not want to set off an alarm. 
  
  Speaking of those mercenaries, the mercenaries in this game are either geniuses, or have a Pre-K 
 education. In other words, the AI in Far Cry Instincts: Predator is quite variable, and can be 
 a subtle let-down in terms of quality. It's still decent enough to pass with me though. 
  
  The two campaigns aren't very different at all, except in the length. In Instincts (you have to 
 play through this to unlock evolution) you can get through the campaign in 20 hours tops. The game 
 is satisfyingly long, and you'll enjoy nearly every minute of it. Evolution, on the other hand, 
 is an expansion in every sense of the word. It delivers what you come to expect in a shorter length. 
 While it does work, most of the gameplay flaws haven't been fixed
  
  The Xbox Live support is great, while not chock-full of different game modes. You get what you'd 
 expect from a multiplayer game, nothing more. The ability to make your own maps really ups the 
 anti though. If you can get used to the different tools, you can really create some cool, quality 
 maps to play on. 
  
  Overall, I give gameplay an 8/10.
  
  Graphics: The graphics in this game are nothing short of excellent, there's no doubt about it. 
 The environments are some of the best parts of the game. While swimming I wanted to stop and drink 
 the water numerous times. The graphics are great, but they're not perfect. 
  
  By now we've seen games like GRAW, and Fight Night Round 3, which have nearly photo-realistic graphics 
 and visuals. Far Cry's graphics are great and all, but I think by now we're expecting a bit more 
 from the 360. When compared to the original Xbox versions, there's a bit more polish in some spots, 
 but it's virtually the same. 
  
  The physics in the game are pretty good too, if you kill someone in the water, the body floats. 
 Touches like that show you how much effort the designers put into these superb environments. 
 
  
  The graphics are impressive by most standards, but don't deliver the full potential. I give graphics 
 a 9/10.
  
  Sound: There really isn't anything you can say badly about the sound in this game. The guns sound 
 great, the voice acting's great, the vehicle sound is great, all of the audio in this game sounds 
 flat-out awesome. Jack speaks his mind, and though there is a lot of a profanity, you actually 
 believe a lot of the scenarios he encounters. 
  
  It's top-notch. What can I say? It's the closest thing to half-life 2's quality you'll get. 10/10.
 
  
  Value: You don't get more value than you do with this game. For $30, you're getting two campaigns, 
 a map editor, and some Xbox Live play. Of course, if you've already played through Far Cry: Instincts 
 you probably just want to pick up Far Cry Instincts: Evolution, for the original Xbox. 
  
  You're getting an awful lot of bang for your buck, need I say more?
  
  Value gets a 10/10 for 
 me.
  
  Bottom Line: As I've mentioned before, this game is not for everyone. If you're new to the series 
 like I was, then it's a dream come true. It packages too truly great FPS's and gives some intense 
 replay value with the map editor and Xbox Live support. If you haven't played Far Cry then don't 
 deny yourself this top-notch experience any longer. It's just that great.
  
  OVERALL SCORE: 9.3/10
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: destinhpark
Rating: 7.8
Date: Aug 18, 2006 9:34 pm PT
Review:  Far Cry, as you probably already know, started out on the pc. Well, in late 2005, Ubisoft Montreal 
 brought the franchise over to the Xbox. They called it: Far Cry Instincts. 
  
  Now, as you probably noticed when the Xbox 360 launched, Far Cry Instincts didn't quite make the 
 backwards compatibility list.
  
  Therefore, Ubisoft went back to the studio, took the Xbox version, Far Cry Instincts, and totally 
 revamped it. Well, most of it anyways. 
  
  As on the Xbox console, the 360 version of this game features a phenomenal single player campaign.
 
  
  Well, actually, it features two phenomenal single player campaigns. Yep, two. 
  
  They took the Far Cry Instincts campaign, then brought in the sequel's (Far Cry Instincts Evolution) 
 campaign, and put them all into one. Thus, making the 360 version's campaign quite lengthly. Which 
 is definitley a good thing, considering both campaigns are extremely intense, and a lot of fun 
 to play.
  
  The gameplay in the story mode is absolutely incredible. It really gives you the "alone in the 
 jungle" feeling, and it gives it to you quite strongly. You'll feel it right as you start playing.
 
  
  Now, enough about this single player information. You know all about it by now, and you're probably 
 thinking, "Oh come on, move on to the multiplayer already."
  
  Well, here's a starter. Don't and I repeat, DON'T be expecting much from the multiplayer in this 
 game.
  
  Now don't get me wrong, it can be fun at times using the game's built in map editor, but mostly, 
 the Xbox Live multiplayer falls flat on it's face. You want to know why? On word...
  
  LAG.
  
  And it's not even the host's fault or anything. It's very simple. Ubisoft was too lazy 
 to revamp the multiplayer...
  
  I mean sure, they added a few for features, maps, etc. But they didn't really focus on the one 
 important thing. That being the actual gameplay and feeling of it.
  
  Online multiplayer matches lag at least 75 percent of the time, and that ruins it a whole lot. 
 Trust me, if you're in a lag-free game, that's great! Because the multiplayer games can be pretty 
 stinkin' fun. But it's just when that lag cuts in there, it ruins most of it for you.
  
  And that's quite a shame. Quite.
  
  But, I guess I'll need to give you some info about it anyways.
 
  
  The multiplayer features all weapons and vehicles from the single player campaign. Yes, even the 
 hanglider. Which is actually a really neat thing to do online.
  
  There are tons of maps, and as I said before, there is also a map editor. Allowing you to create 
 your own maps, and download your friend's maps as well. Playing on your created maps could be one 
 of the most fun things about this game. For sure.
  
  Let's get a little more technical about this now, shall we?
  
  The graphics in Far Cry Predator 
 are, well, pretty good looking. 
  
  The reason I only say, "pretty good looking" is because, well, they look great, but just not really 
 up to 360 standards.
  
  But, the draw distance is totally jaw dropping. As is the water. Both are fantastic achievements 
 in this game. And I must give Ubisoft credit for those two things.
  
  Sound...
  
  Sound is good. Just good. Nothing memorable. Nothing awesome. Nothing revolutionary. There's just 
 sound. And it's good enough for me.
  
  And that's all I really have to say about that.
  
  hm. As for value, I would say this game should be around 49 bucks, rather than 59, and only 
 because the multiplayer could have been alot better than it is.
  
  But overall, this game is really solid. It's not perfect, it has its problems, but it's really 
 just an all around great game. If you've already played through both original Xbox versions of 
 the game, I wouldn't bother picking this one up. But if you've never played any Far Cry, then I 
 say get up and head to Gamestop. This game is definitley a good one. Especially for FPS fans.
 
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: xboxgamer07
Rating: 8.6
Date: Aug 14, 2006 10:44 am PT
Review:  i must say i loved the far cry that came out on the pc back in march of 2004. but i really like 
 this game for the 360. the fact is because it is on next gen consoles. it was cool have two games 
 in one box. but i already played instincs on xbox so it sucked having to play it again to unlock 
 the new far cry. but it was all fun both of them are really good game and both are really interesting. 
 also the multi play is really fun and the xbl achevments they have are intersting to work for so 
 i recommend this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Woodchuck
Rating: 8.7
Date: Aug 11, 2006 8:52 am PT
Review:  When Far Cry originally came out for the PC in 2004, it was one of the best looking games to date. 
 When Far Cry Instincts came out last year on the original Xbox, it was one of the best if not the 
 best for Microsoft's original console. Now that Far Cry Instincts has been released for the Xbox 
 360 along Far Cry Instincts Evolution in the package Far Cry Instincts Predator, it is one of the 
 best FPSs on the console. Both of its single player games are interesting and time-consuming, and 
 the multiplayer mode will keep you hooked long after you've beaten the stories.
  
  In the original Instincts story, you play as Jack Carver, a criminal from New York who is hiding 
 out in the South Pacific, using a boat to take a reporter named Valerie to a mysterious island. 
 While there, Val goes missing and Jack's boat is destroyed by mercenaries. While there Jack must 
 survive by shooting first and asking questions later. Sometime into the story, Jack is injected 
 with a substance that has a delayed reaction, giving him strange abilities, such as running extremely 
 fast, having health that heals quickly, jumping long distances, using a one-punch kill, and the 
 ability to see in the dark.
  
  After you beat the Instincts story, you will unlock the Evolution story, which takes place not 
 long after Instincts. You are hired by a girl named Kade, who is about to take place in a weapons 
 deal and needs some muscle, hiring you. Of course, everything goes wrong. Rebels attack and the 
 deal falls through. You must survive on the island again, but this time you get to play through 
 the entire game with your powers.
  
  Both of the stories are very interesting and pose some challenge, even when playing on the rookie 
 difficulty. You can also choose a medium difficulty and a predator difficulty, and the predator 
 story makes it much more difficult by taking away your radar, making it hard to know where to go 
 since the levels are pretty open-ended.
  
  Instincts takes around 15 or so hours to beat and is very good. Evolution is also very enjoyable 
 and at sometimes even more, but its problem is its length. It takes at most 8 hours to beat, and 
 most people can beat it in 6. In addition to that, Evolution adds almost nothing with the exception 
 of a few new throw-weapons and the ability to climb a few rock surfaces. Besides these few complaints, 
 Evolution is still a decent game.
  
  Graphically, Predator does indeed look better than its two Xbox counterparts, but when compared 
 to the power of the 360 to the original Xbox, it is in away less impressive. However, all of the 
 characters look great, the framerate rarely drops, and the environments look fantastic, especially 
 the water textures. They look incredible, and more than make up for the rest of the graphical problems.
 
  
  The voice acting was great in Instincts, even though no real big name actors provided their voices 
 to the game. The same is for Evolution as well, but it isn't as good as Instincts either. The sound 
 effects, however, are great. The sounds the weapons make are very impressive, and the explosions 
 the grenades make are as well. However, whenever you kill an enemy with a punch, they shriek like 
 a little girl. Kind of weird for guys who are trying to kill you.
  
  Online play is where the game really shines. There are 5 different game modes, and as you can expect, 
 you see your standard deathmatch (chaos in this game) , team deathmatch (team chaos) and capture 
 the flag (steal the sample) , but the two modes unique to Far Cry are the seek 'n' secure modes 
 and predator, with the latter being very interesting, where one player gets all of the powers of 
 Jack from the story and the rest are trying to kill him, and trying to kill everyone else in the 
 progress. Matches are very easy to get in, and creating them on your own will quickly get you some 
 people to play with.
  
  One of the problems with Far Cry is the achievement system. Some are pretty easy like obtaining 
 30 headshots, 30 feral punches or 30 trapkills in single-player and it gets you a good amount of 
 points, but it suffers the same problem as Perfect Dark Zero in that it will only give you a few 
 points for beating the entire story, which is kind of ridiculous and unfair to those who don't 
 Xbox Live to get some achievements with friends. There are also easy ways to exploit the Xbox Live 
 achievements, though I won't mention them for fear of someone using them and unfairly earning points... even 
 though I also did it.
  
  Far Cry Instincts Predator is not the game for you if you already bought FCI on the original Xbox, 
 since you'll have to play through it all over again and you'd have to pay $60 when you could just 
 pay $30 to get Evolution. But if you didn't buy FCI already, are interested in it and own a 360, 
 this is the version to get, since it is easily the superior of the two (or three, depending on 
 how you look at it) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jackazz17
Rating: 8.1
Date: Aug 9, 2006 2:02 pm PT
Review:  FarCry is a great FPS. 'Nuff said, really. It adds in some interesting topics to try to make it 
 innovative and add something new but really only comes away with the Feral abilities, which for 
 those who don't know are the "animal" instincts that Jack Carver, your character, obtains a short 
 bit into the game, allows you to do things like rushing towards your foe and slashing him to death, 
 seeing in the dark, moving and jumping like crazy, etc.
  
  Graphically is where the game almost comes out as a dissapointment. It definately does not come 
 close to pushing the XBox 360 to it's limits, and it's a shame because the game could look absolutely 
 gorgeous. The environments, while varied, appear bland, and this is offset only slightly by how 
 big each one is. A couple levels in fact are so varied that from getting from point A to point 
 B could mean that you can take three different paths, by air, land, or sea. Character models are 
 way behind and just not that fun to look at, and look like half assed attempts even compared with 
 the blandish environments.
  
  Where FarCry really packs in the goods though is in the variety. This is not your standard "pick 
 up a gun, shoot this guy, pick up this stronger gun, shoot that guy" shooter. The weapons all serve 
 a unique purpose and you can choose the three (the game only lets you carry three at a time) that 
 suit to your liking, whether it be all-out power weapons, stealthy silenced guns, or a mixture 
 of both. Traversing through the environment even has it's adventures. You'll play through deep 
 jungle, sprawling beaches, go island hopping, and even fight your way through old WWII era bunkers 
 and encampments.
  
  The vehicles present in FarCry warrants their own point, as many of them are fun to drive and experiment 
 around in. You have your standard jeeps and vans with mounted turrets, but also thrown in there 
 are ATVs and JetSkis to help you zip around quicker, and it's very exciting and adrenaline-pumping 
 to fly around while being shot at from all angles.
  
  As mentioned earlier, a bit into the game and Jack will receive what are called Feral Abilities. 
 This will initially grant Jack the ability to lock on to a target and from a short distance away, 
 charge on a target and slash at him, sending him flying into the air in an instant kill. You actually 
 end up using this more often than you might think, even though you have to get in pretty close 
 to lock on. Abilities you'll gain later on are things like a vision sense that highlights enemies 
 and a stance that lets you move significantly faster and jump insane gaps.
  
  Multiplayer is as solid as the single player, again, nothing new but fun nonetheless. Split screen 
 game modes are fun, but system link and online are where it's at. They throw in some interesting 
 twists such as the Predator mode, but it's really just a glorified version of tag.
  
  Overall, the game is solid. It's nothing excitingly new, and the extra campaign tacked on is not 
 much different than the original one, but that's not necessarily a bad thing either. It'll give 
 you plenty of hours of enjoyment on the single player alone, so it really deserves to be picked 
 up by anyone who is a fan of the FPS genre. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Aurelien48
Rating: 7.2
Date: Aug 8, 2006 10:43 pm PT
Review:  This game is really long!!! the gamplay are excellent, so many vhicule and weapons to play with!!! 
 the graphic suck but the game itself make it look better. the sound is alright could of been beter. 
 the value are ok! so, this game start pretty good and get really interisting during the game. if 
 you have 7 days with 5 each day you could probly finish the game. its not woth buying!! but rent 
 it when bored and play it just fo fun!! this game should be a xbox game!! after its really boring 
 the old same stuff and guns!!! i ll give it a 5 out of 10 cause its really weak for xbox 360 !!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DS-man
Rating: 8.1
Date: Nov 19, 2006 1:29 pm PT
Review:  You play as a man in the wroung time and the wroung place as you fight Prates and feral warriors!, 
 can you servive?
  
  GOOD- Playing as Feral is awesome; place traps and use your instincs to survive!
  BAD- bad graphics; 
 Driving is very difficult
  
  GAMEPLAY:
  This is'nt your avrage FPS game, in this one you must use your instincs... and i dont mean basic 
 instincts, but Feral!, as you transform into a beast and use your preditor skills to survive, place 
 traps and sneek around to win all battles!
  
  GRAPHICS:
  It may not be has good as you exspected for the 360 but its still a nice wonderful backgrounds, 
 but dont go down the beach for a tann.... you'll get shot!
  
  SHOUND:
  It has pretty good voice acting and sound effect, but nothing specile 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mcberserker
Rating: 9.1
Date: Aug 7, 2006 7:27 am PT
Review:  The only reason I give this a high score is because this is my first far cry game. Now i understand 
 the hype. This game is one of the best fps ive ever played. I played the game 4 times so far. The 
 map editor is amzing. I have spent so many hours on the editor alone. So far, i have about ten good 
 levels (i made others but they sucked) . The graphics arn't an improvement from the last game, but 
 they arn't horrible. The best looking thinng in the game is probably the guns. This game will last 
 you a long time, and most of time will be on the editor. If you haven't played the xbox versions, 
 this is probably one of the best games on 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DivineTears
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 2, 2006 5:18 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: If you havent played this game and this is you're first you will be blown away to the 
 next room, But people who have played the game will get the feeling that it's the same thing with 
 a different story.
  Graphics: Hmm I thought this was next-gen believe me the water is the most beautiful graphical 
 gems it can offer but if you recall it isnt a big update, the graphics dont look as enhanced as 
 it's xbox prequal partner.
  Sound: Yes the ambience, gunshots, explosions, Sound so far is good and always has been.
  Value: 
 I cant say much there besides it has 35 achievements but some are unfair as you have to beat all 
 of the first game in each dif. mode just to get some of them and then the second story in each 
 dif. mode to get the others and so on and so forth.
  
  I can tell those who havent played far cry at all, To get this as soon as possible but those who 
 have played and passed the first, Give it a rent if you like it buy it. I love the game and wont 
 stop playing it but you get the feeling it's the same, I just wish games would give me that feeling 
 when you drop you're controll run to the next room to grab you're father or friend to show them 
 how awesome the game is. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fatality013
Rating: 8.8
Date: Aug 1, 2006 10:57 am PT
Review:  Far Cry Instincts Predator is a visually great game. The graphics will really allow you to immerse 
 yourself into the game. There is no music in the game until you get into a confrontation with the 
 enemy like most FPS. There is a slight problem with the kneeling feature but other than that the 
 controls are solid. So lets get down to the game. When you first start out you are on a boat giving 
 a woman a tour of the island. You tell her that it is not a good idea to go ashore but she doesn't 
 listen. She flaunts some cash at you and takes off on the jet ski. You take a nap and wake up to 
 two military choppers checking you out. They open fire on your boat and you take cover and end 
 up jumping out into the water. And that's where the fun starts. You will have to make a swim for 
 it to a ship that has been stranded on the island for years before you are caught and killed. You 
 will make your way through the back of the ship and head into the forest. When you start out all 
 you get is a knife. But as you will see if used properly it is a very effective weapon. One of 
 my favorite features and probably yours is the ability to set traps. Now the traps will only work 
 if the enemy is green on your map. If he is yellow, orange, or red then the trap won't work. Even 
 with this very small window of opportunity it is very fun to do. But be careful the enemy can set 
 the same traps for you. When you get your gun you will notice that the zoom is not very good. And 
 if the sight is not red when you shoot you wont be able to hit them. One of the cool features is 
 that you can dual weld weapons. When you finally get the sniper rifle (my favorite weapon) . You 
 will notice that in zoom mode the kindly added the affect of a person holding the weapon with his 
 hand. This means that you will not have a perfectly steady shot as in Halo. But instead you will 
 have to fight with the camera to get the killing shot. This little feature make the game all the 
 better. By the time you get the sniper rifle you will have to had driven a car by now. And as you 
 can see the handling is controlled by the left analog stick. The camera has no effect on controlling 
 the direction of the vehicle. So it make it very difficult to drive if the camera is not facing 
 forward. But the cool thing about the vehicles is the ability to mount onto the gun with out having 
 to get out of the vehicle and move to the gun. You can also do this on the boat. The quad doesn't 
 have a gun but is in my opinion has the best handling. After playing the game for a while I noticed 
 that the map doesn't show enemies unless you have already seen them. And some times the map will 
 not show an enemy if they are close. So I m telling you not to trust the map. If you rely on the 
 map too much you will end up getting killed. There are many cool features in the game and I don't 
 want to spoil all of them so you will just need to play the game and find out the rest. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lil_jay0507
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jul 31, 2006 11:56 pm PT
Review:  I think this game, despite what most people think, is above an average game. Though I never played 
 Far Cry on original Xbox (which I heard makes a lot of difference) I still think that this is worth 
 the sixty bucks that you pay. Theres plenty of gameplay varietys, the graphics are pretty good, 
 and the sound is awsome at some points. But then there's its bad points, like the graphics couldve 
 been better and the sound is a little annoying at some points. But the gameplay is the best point 
 of this game. There are a lot of ways to kill people, you can do a mission the way you want to 
 as in you can run n' gun or sneak around, and the cut-scenes are pretty cool. Im not going to say 
 this is a "must-have", but it is easily a must-try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gogiants46
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jul 29, 2006 12:07 pm PT
Review:  Ubisoft's re-doing of Far Cry for the X-Box 360 is almost identical to that of the X-Box version 
 released in winter of 05/06. There have been some minor, technical upgrades (ie. better graphics, 
 better physics) but other than that the game is basically the same. The reason for the lower score 
 is that well the 360 is a significantly more powerful system than that of the original X-Box but 
 yet the graphics have only a slight upgrade and everything else is basically the same. It's more 
 of a dissapointment on the 360 but a solid game still. Recommended if you didn't play or don't 
 own Far Cry for the original X-Box. For a more extensive review, check the one I left for X-Box 
 version. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tazzydnc
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jun 24, 2007 5:02 pm PT
Review:  Sadly the 360 doesn't have Full backward compatibility, and far cry was one of the great titles 
 left off the list. Fortunately microsoft released this game specifically for 360 so first time 
 owners could enjoy the experience.
  
  I was one who missed out on Far Cry on the original xbox, and I can easily tell it didn't get rave 
 reviews for nothing.
  
  In a world plauged by First person shooters that offer you little more than another corridor crawl, 
 Far Cry brought some novelty to the genre that has anything but worn off.
  
  Far Cry takes place on a vast scale with absolutely gorgeous scenary. I'm about a third of the 
 way through the long campaign and haven't seen a corridor yet. The story is engaging and certainly 
 has it's plot twists. It starts of rough and fairly difficult but once you get your feral insticts 
 the gameplay just gets more and more fun.
  
  Graphically this game doesn't exactly make your jaw drop and it's basically an xbox game ported 
 to 360, but far cry still does boast some of the best graphics to ever grace the xbox.
  
  The sound is as good as it gets, with fitting music and nice voice acting. Playing it in surround 
 really adds to the atmosphere.
  
  The gameplay itself takes getting used to. The aiming on the guns is a bit akward so you really 
 need to get the hang of the system. Just keep playing and it will get easier. Its hard at first 
 but once you get the hang of it, it doesn't mar gameplay any.
  
  This isn't a game you can just run and gun and expect to survive. You need to rely on stealth/guerilla 
 tactics to make your way through forces that greatly outnumber you. For me this brought a steep 
 learning curve as the game is fairly hard anyway. Learning when and how to be stealthy is of the 
 essence. I've found it best to spot baddies from afar with your binoculars, then to creep up on 
 them prone in the grass before you start popping some heads. Other guys will run up to check on 
 the dead bodies and at that point it just becomes a shooting gallery.
  
  The bad guys aren't stupid however. If you are too trigger happy they will soon discover your location 
 and pounce in on you from all sides. The AI is great in this game so it really makes it worth your 
 while to think before you shoot.
  
  The whole feral insticts really makes this game unique. I dont want to spoil it to much but you 
 gain special animalistic qualities in cluding strength, speed and a tremendous sense of smell.
 
  
  The game is as long as it gets, multiplayer is great and with a map editor you cant get much more 
 value. If you have already played the game or still have it on your old box there isn't a whole 
 lot new here. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gutterfly
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 27, 2006 7:21 am PT
Review:  I am not much of a fan for FPS on the xbox360 usually i leave them for the mouse... But farcry has 
 converted me...
  
  My fav parts
  I love the A. I, they work together, patrol different arreas and get scarred by birds
  Amazing 
 Graphics
  Feral abbilities are just stupendusly fun...
  And its two games in one,
  
  not so fav parts
  The game is very hard
  Even in Hunter difficulty i had to retry alot of the 
 game to pass each level
  
  All in all this is a very good game and im looking forward to playing it over and over until the 
 next farcry title comes out!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: kingcow2064
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 26, 2006 4:01 pm PT
Review:  Far Cry is a real treat to play. The controls are excellent and when u get Ferral Powers it gets 
 real fun. The only tiny issue is driving, which is semi weird because one thumb stick drives and 
 the other is for looking around. The graphics are breathtakingly beautiful and the character animation 
 look very good. Now for the bad stuff, the story is good but its a little slow. The sound disapointed 
 me greatly, I was playing this game in Surround sound and it didn't quite me that POW feeling when 
 something exploded. The language gets bad at times and is my only real disapointment about Far 
 Cry. This game is also extremely tough you'll need to be prepared to throw the controller several 
 times. But the Ferral Punch makes everything better!!! Everyone should check out Far Cry Predator 
 because its long, fun, and has Ferral Powers!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ryanrodriguez
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jul 26, 2006 3:11 pm PT
Review:  This is probably one of the worst FPS's I've played to date. Seriously, the game controls are sketchy, 
 plotline (I know it's a game) is weak, and the overall feel is just lame. Now the environments 
 and some of the ideas for this game were good, just poorly executed. The tropical islands colors 
 are amazing and the water effects are really cool but I can't live off just that when dedicating 
 myself to a game for hours. I love the concept of predatory powers and being able to set traps 
 but it just comes off cheap. I wouldn't even buy this game at a discount knowing what I do now. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BoonDockSaint15
Rating: 2
Date: Jul 22, 2006 4:35 pm PT
Review:  Kind of not my thing i am sorry the first person thing is great and all but the stoires and all 
 not my thing the guns and the cars i like i like alot the guy that does the voice ok job i guess 
 but there it really know ponit to the game i meean it does not even tell you why the things are 
 happing to this guy untell your half way thru it i am sorry it is just not my cup of tea i hated 
 it to tell you the truth the cover looks great but in the end the game i would say is BROKEN 
::::::

::::::
UserName: theimperishable
Rating: 4.3
Date: Jul 22, 2006 3:51 pm PT
Review:  Within this review 2 point are to be covered, the quality of the game if you have played its previous 
 version and if you have not.
  1) If you played the xbox version:
  If you have played the xbox version, when you come to play this game you will notice one very similar 
 property. Everything!!! The graphics are practically the same, with the exception of the water 
 (which to be honest isnt to great up close anyway) . You cant play the extra 'predator' game untill 
 you complete the instincts mode. So it really is a waste, u may aswell keep ur old xbox and play 
 instincts.
  2) If you have not played the xbox version:
  If you have not played the xbox version then you will find this game quite amazing. The graphics 
 will seem great, especially when around the water. The gameplay is awesome, and is totally un-linear, 
 with new things being added continuously throughout. The map editor is quite frankly the best in 
 any game i have ever witnessed and the online multiplayer isnt far of Halo quality (but ofcourse 
 Halo owns!) .
  In my conclusion however, i have to say this game was huge dissapointment to me as i have played 
 the previous version, and i cannot be bothered plumaging my way through the identical game again! 
 just to get to some extra content! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rebel108
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jun 2, 2007 1:34 pm PT
Review:  Far Cry is an extremely fun fast paced game that has great gameplay. In FCIP there are two single 
 player campaigns which is a great deal. The single player missions are fun and keep you going. 
 The multiplayer is extremely fun and innovative except for the lag. I'm pissed at Ubisoft for not 
 creating a patch yet. If you get bored of the single player, you can make your own maps. It takes 
 a while to make a map but as you make it you don't notice the time going by. It's very fun and 
 very useful to creat your own maps. Every game should have a map maker. Please Ubisoft, make a 
 patch for this great game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spoogan
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jul 19, 2006 10:29 pm PT
Review:  Well Far Cry Instincts lets us take control of Jack Carver, a former US Navy Commando-now turned-fishing 
 boat captain who is on the run from his past. Eventually, after having his boat annihilated, Jack 
 finds himself battling for his life on this island against pirates, mercanaries, and a mad doctor 
 named Kreiger. Soon enough this Kreiger fellow gets a hold of you and injects you with some virus 
 that transforms you into a lethal killing machine with abilities such as smelling people, seeing 
 in the dark, super strength & speed, and the ability to jump great distances. Anyway, you basically 
 have to kill Kreiger and the leader of the Mercanaries named Crowe and escape the island.
  
  In Evolution, we find that Jack has been spending his time basically getting drunk when this 
 young dame hires him as a muscle during a weapons sale between her and some local militia. Just 
 as the sale is about to go down, some rebels come and obliterate the militia - and after you kill 
 them - it looks like everyone is poiting the blame on you for the death of the militia. Anyway, 
 your trying to escape from this new island when you get assaulted by people who have the same kind 
 of powers as you, and the big cheese known as Sereum (or something like that) tries killing you 
 and that dame from early... so naturally you want vengenace.... especialyl after he kills your 
 man Doyle from Instincts.
  
  Though different stories, both games play exactly a like. Through Jack's eyes you get a lot of 
 weapons from assault rifles, shotguns, .50 caliber machine guns you can rip out of the ground, 
 sniper rifles, and others to destroy numerous enemies - though you can only carry 3 types of weapons, 
 most of the smaller ones can be duel wield. You can also use your animal moves which can be entertaining 
 like when you punch a pirate 100 miles away. There are a lot of vehicles to drive such as hummers, 
 ATVs, hand gliders (that was cool) , various types of boats, trucks, and many more.. though there 
 are no tanks. In both games you can set traps, which include laying claymore mines into the ground 
 or tying up branches so when enemies walk near them the branch whips back scoring you an instant 
 kill. It was pretty cool, but got pretty useless later on.
  
  There is a multiplayer and it is pretty fun. There are many types of game modes ranging from mere 
 deathmatches & capture the flag games to "Predator" games where one person becomes feral and stalks 
 other players. There is also a map editor where you can make your own stages with any kind of box, 
 vehicle, emplacement, or anything which is a really cool feature. Great for X-Box Live.
  
  Lets talk difficulty. Far Cry Predator is a pretty hard game for a few reasons: You'll be fighting 
 ALOT of enemies at one time (both in air and on ground) , the weapons seem sort of weak when you're 
 using them, and your health depletes WAYYY too fast - for instance you'll get shot like twice with 
 an assault rifle and you're almost dead. However, the boss fights are pretty simplistic and just 
 require you to slash at them with your claws for a few moments.. so its a win-lose situation: It's 
 hard to get up to the boss, but the boss is easy.
  
  Graphics are kinda subpar figuring they just used the normal X-Box mechanics, but they still look 
 pretty good. The white beaches, dense jungles, dark caves, and crystal clear water look beautiful... 
 the character models look a little lame and boxy, but one quick glance at the enviroments and you 
 can easily forget about them.
  
  Almost all of the sounds were great. The music was really thumbs up and helped add a bit of lonliness 
 & freakyness to the atmosphere. The guns sounded great, and the voice acting was awesome - Jack 
 Carver is the man. He curses, is sarcastic, tough... he has a lot of personality that is shown 
 through his dialouge.
  
  Now for endings. Instincts was boring - you beat Crowe, Kreiger gets killed by some mutants, Doyle 
 & Cortez pick you up in a helicopter. You say, "Cortez - you owe me a damned boat!" and Doyle gives 
 you a suitcase full of money. You grin and fly away.. thats it. In Evolution, after you beat the 
 leader of the new Feral people (Sereum) , you meet the dame who hired you and tried to kill you 
 near the end of the game, and she starts freaking out because.. well... she tried to kill you and 
 you survived. You throw her money at her and she says," There was nothing else I could do Jack." 
 and your character looks at her and goes, "There was a time when I used to think like that too." 
 and kicks open a door to reveal a way off the island. Thats it.... sadly, Doyle dies. Sort of lackluster, 
 but every game's ending has been bad so far.
  
  To finish it up Far Cry is a pretty run of the mill FPS with only a FEW qualities that make it 
 stand out slightly. Sure its intense, and sure the multiplayer is good but the game is kinda short, 
 the ending doesn't feel rewarding, and when your done with the stoy (and don't have X-Box Live) 
 then there really isn't much reason to play Predator again. Rent it first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mish55
Rating: 4
Date: Jul 17, 2006 5:46 am PT
Review:  when far cry instincts came out, it was an okay game. Long campaig, better than some multiplayer 
 with great map editor. The graphics were ok for that generation. 
  
  Now this game comes out for the 360, and god knows why. The game just has an extra story. But the 
 hideousness and sloppy gameplay just isnt great anymore.
  
  its a first person shooter, you shoot people..... lots of people, sometimes little monsters. You 
 get to use feral powers, which are cool but done sloppily. You have every aspect of an fps. 
  
  The graphics are a prime example of developer laziness. This game has a vague graphics upgrade, 
 which makes you think "how come it didnt look this good on the original xbox, which it coulda been 
 on?." The environments are practically the same lifeless jungle, with still trees and 2d foliage. 
 The water is upgraded, sure it looks good but doesnt act good, it doesnt react to boats, or anything. 
 The graphics on the characters are just laughable. This game is ugly, lets just leave it at that.
 
  
  The sound in this game isnt really spectacular. You got the voice acting, the jungle music, the 
 gunshots. Theyre all decent.
  
  This game is a total let down, even the multiplayer is practically the same, you cant hold a full 
 party without major lag. Lag isnt fun.
  The map editor is fun, but loading other peoples maps arent.
  
  This game is not great, it 
 got a 7.9 in gamespot, which is too high for gamespot standards.
  
  Its pretty low that you have to use and hdtv to maximize the mediocreness of this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SgtCorona
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 15, 2006 7:36 am PT
Review:  Loved Far Cry Instincts, played it online all the time with the Xbox. The 360 version is terrible 
 online. Far Cry Predator is a great game but the online performance is awful. I could host a game 
 with 16 players with Far Cry Instincts, but the same Internet connection can't even host 5 players 
 in Far Cry Predator.
  The headset is very handy in first person shooter games, unless everybody playing is saying "can't 
 hear anybody, your all breaking up", so voice communitcation is also a let down in this version 
 of Far Cry.
  If you liked the campaign mode in Far Cry Instincts on Xbox, you'll love it in the enhanced version 
 for the Xbox 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheNIM
Rating: 7.2
Date: Nov 13, 2006 7:42 pm PT
Review:  Ok so I tried FC out and I liked it, but then again I didn't The graphics are actually better than 
 people are giving it credit for. The water looks extremely real. It is very solid. The thing that 
 really kills it for me is that online play usually has a bunch of user maps that people design 
 and most of them are terrible. I entered a room that contained nothing but solid ground the size 
 of a boxing ring and it was a bor. The maps take up more memory than the game itself. The actual 
 game story line is dull and doesn't grasp you the way other shooters do. It's a good game to play 
 for a couple of days, but after that it's just too boring to play considering the competition it's 
 pitting itself against. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigroy666
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jul 13, 2006 5:44 am PT
Review:  One of the best FPS shooters I had ever played on the original xbox, and even better on the xbox 
 360. While the player models, and environments are beutiful, (although some textures get a little 
 muddy up close) its not quite what I would have expected from an xbox 360 game, but good enough.
 
  
  It seems as though the original campaign is a bit lengthier than the original xbox version (At least 
 it SEEMS that way, I dont remeber the original version too well) I havn't unlocked the second campaign 
 yet so ill comment on that at a later time.
  
  The AI is quite a bit better this time around. They seem to take cover and try to flank you alot 
 more in this version which is definatley a good thing. It has a very stable frame rate most of 
 the time, Ive only noticed a little bit of lag sometimes but not enough to care about.
  
  I havn't delved into the online mode yet, but I plan on it very soon, the map editor is awsome 
 there is just so much you can do.
  
  So far my overall experience has been great. It absolutley blows the original version out of the 
 water, its not the same game with a new coat of paint, it seems to be quite a new experience all 
 together, I will add more once Ive delved into the second campaign, and online. My first immpressions 
 though is that this is an awsome game, not just another rehashed port.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jburde
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jul 10, 2006 1:54 pm PT
Review:  Far Cry Instincts: Predator is an amazing first person shooter for the 360. The graphics are definitely 
 next generation compared to Far Cry Instincts for the XBOX. It has very simple controls but as 
 many people have said, the aiming isn't great. Other that, and the laggy multiplayer, it plays 
 pretty well.
  The sound is great in this game especially if you have surround sound. Overall, Far Cry is a must 
 buy, it has boring multiplayer without Xbox Live but with the original Far Cry Instincts game and 
 an Expansion story the singleplayer is worth the $60 all by itself. If you don't want to buy, you 
 have to at least rent it or you're missing at on a great experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maxinshoes
Rating: 8.2
Date: Nov 28, 2006 7:45 am PT
Review:  The orginal Far Cry for the PC was the best FPS since Half Life, they tried to replicate that with 
 the sequel Instincts exclusively for Xbox, unfortunately, it was inferior to such games as Halo 
 and Doom.
  They then ported the game to the 360 and adding the Evolution campaign to it, the game was more 
 or less the same, except more expensive and on a better console.
  Far Cry is far from perfect, and it is still quite far from being a failure. One of Far Cry's main 
 bugs is its graphics, the character models look absolutely attrocious up-close, but the water is 
 so very well done it actually looks ... wet! Far Cry is basically just another FPS, except for 
 the fact that you adapt to your surroundings and become one with your inner beast, or predator 
 (hense the name) . The story is quite mashed up with very little explanation and you being thrown 
 in the deep end (literally) at the beginning of the game.
  
  [UPDATE] The multiplayer update is magnificant and this game deserves and additional 0.1 :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bambamcoolio
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jul 7, 2006 8:23 pm PT
Review:  Far Cry Instincts Predator is a surprisingly good. I admit I did'nt have high hopes with it but 
 I still walked out of EB games with it. The main thing that will grab your attention is the stunning 
 graphics powered by your Xbox 360 and the fact that the game comes with the original Far Cry Instincts 
 and the coming soon Far Cry Evolution from the original Xbox. In this game Jack Carver gets mutated 
 and becomes more powerful than ever before. The game also lets you drive 3 new vehicles and plenty 
 of new weapons, enemies, and graphics. The water graphics are absolutly amazing. Even though the 
 enemies are as sharp as a bowling ball you will still have great time with Far Cry Instincts Predator. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crypto-236
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 30, 2006 7:22 am PT
Review:  The new Far Cry has somewhat of better graphics, but a little bit too much run and gun gameplay. 
 The map editor is really what holds my attention.
  The games player models now look slightly smoother and sharper but nothing real great. The story 
 characters, in the cut scenes, look just odd. Their skin is just bumpy and looks a little blocky 
 in places, their hair looks frozen, and limbs just don't look right.
  The gameplay has not 'evolved' (not so much in a good way) from hide and ambush, or guerilla tactics, 
 to run side to side hoping they dont hit you, and now that you start out with feral the edge of 
 a wild firefight is kinda gone. It is nice seeing people being flung through the air with your 
 clawing ability.
  The map editor is where this one shines. You can create your own maps, like in the last ones, from 
 a chunk of sand to a living, breathing forest, which will later be splattered with your enemies 
 blood, or your own.
  So if your a fan of the others this is still good, but for newbies, you should go with the earlier 
 ones. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nebuzad0
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 29, 2006 12:33 pm PT
Review:  So you bought a 360 and you bbought xboxlive with it? Then I can find no other game to buy than 
 Far Cry: Instincts-Preadator. This game is amazing if you have never played any Far Cry games. 
 Like all of my reviews I will start with the story. Your name is Jack Carver and you are not having 
 a good day. Your out near a small island, your boat was destroyed by some wierdo merrcienaries, 
 your client dissapeared on your jetski, your being shot at and to top it all of you were injected 
 with some fluid and now you can smell people's scent and trow them 30 or so feet!
  
  I'll start out with whats good with this game first the game play. Shooting is as it always was 
 and its still uber fun. Theres a nice amount of weapons including three new ones: the blow dart, 
 pipe bombs, and molotov cocktails. There are three ways to play this game: steathy, run n' gun, 
 or both! Each of those are fun because yuo usualy have the element of surprise on the murderous 
 mercs. Some of the elements in the single player are realistic for instance: you see two mercs 
 in a sniper tower with high powered sniper rifles but those dumb mercs left some nice bright red 
 barrels next to the sniper tower so simply shoot those barrels then BOOM... the sniper tower is 
 gonne except for the now chunks of it scatered all over the small wooden village, and of cource 
 the dead mecr corpses sluping over the roofs of the wooden village. i almost forgot after done 
 with TWO lengthy single players you have a highly addictive Multiplayer MAP MAKER that is highly 
 addictive! I will mention the new stuff for the map maker for you FC: I players well you get the 
 ziplines and turrets and a new bruch set called the refinery. there are also three new vehicles 
 for play the Transport Truck, the san pan, and the mortar pickup! 
  
  now the sadness with my review: THE BAD. Okay the graphis are not up to par with the 360s' capability 
 but it is a port so that is okay for me because of the quote: "its not the graphics but the gameplay!" 
 And driving is hard for new comers because one stick controls the car stering and the other is 
 controls the gun you are holding... Multiplayer is fun on xbox live but the problem is that it ccan 
 be pleauged with either crappy lag or crappy player created maps unless you find the people who 
 can make good maps. ;p
  And the last and probably biggest beef wioth this game among the (whiny) forum area is the aiming. 
 But I over look it because there are worse 360 games with bad aim (im looking at you PDZ) !
  
  That is Nebuzad0's Review On FAR CRY INSTINCtS: PREDATOR 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Doomlike_Mitc
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jun 28, 2006 11:47 am PT
Review:  WHY I GAVE THIS SCORE:
  
  GAMEPLAY: The gameplay is good, but as you might have seen in the riview text or review video you 
 might have noticed that it is not that good, I have several things for it.
  
  1. Turn auto aim off, the auto bullets are working enough as an auto aim. I also have put sensitivety 
 to 8, and it works exelent for me ! 
  2. Turn it sensetivety down to four, I have heard it from people and they say it works.
  3. Do 
 something yourself, just dont start playing while you hate the controlls, if you do that you wil 
 ruin the game.
  
  So you have to do something about the controlls, ok that is something that is not done so well 
 by the developers, but once you have it right the gameplay is awsom ! it deserves an 9 for me, 
 but because you need to get used to it and have to experiment with it an 8.
  
  GRAPHICS: I can imagine that veteran farcry players it seems a bit like the old game... well yes 
 it does, I will tell you wath you will get graphically, oh this is mostly wath I know wath you 
 get.
  
  1. Better water effects
  2. Better draw distance
  3. Its a bit more sharper
  4. Improved light effects
  
  O. k that would make the game look greath would it, I have seen 
 the pics and it looks awsom... well thats not completely the case, the models are the same and 
 that way you can see it was an xbox game. But it is in the details only, after a while you wont 
 notice it anymore. It really is in the details you dont watch really at only... but it still looks 
 greath and thats why it still gets an 8.
  
  VALUE: 
  
  Wath you get more then FARCRY INSTINCTS:
  
  1. Evolution campaign
  2. Some mulplayer stuff. 
 
  
  I personally played the campaign over on a harder difficulty, the AI of the enemy's is not shocking 
 good, but good anyway, atleast good enough to get each time you play a bit more differend feel. 
 Also the gamerpoints give a lot of reason to play it over. also the multiplayer is greath, I have 
 no xbox live but I tried it by an friend and its a lot of fun. Especially map editor give a lot 
 of fun, because then you can play in your own map. This game has a lot of variation and fun for 
 me that it gets an 10, but for an veteran FCI player its more to an 7 for MP and the campaign only, 
 8.5 , and since its not possible in this revieuw and 9. 
  
  SOUND: It has some good music that gives the action some extra feel to it, and it fits with the 
 game so its good, you hear the enemy's screaming and making painfull sounds if they get beaten 
 away. Weapons sound right. you hearing your steps over the ground right. tough I have noticed with 
 a very few places you dont hear a bump when you land after jumping, but this is very few. Sounds 
 good, an 9.
  
  TILT: Well I think the game itself is good, so this wont spoil it an 9.
  
  SOMETHING TO ADD: This game should get an 9+ for people who have not played this game yet. 
 For veteran FCI players, think wise, you should wait till this game drops in price, or should only 
 buy it for the extra campaign. And for the multiplayer. Also not that from wath I have heard, FCI 
 doesnt work on the 360, so you might want to buy this to go on playing FCI online with your 360, 
 if you dont have you xbox anymore for wath reason ever. But an 7. for people who have played FCI.
 
  
  So I will give it an 8.5.
  
  SO OFF TO THE LEARING AND AND PLAYING STUFF:
  
  Difficulty: It can get pretty hard, on harder difficulties.... first novice, it will save you a 
 lot of frustration... because you also need to experiment some with the controlls ( for new FC 
 players especially ) 
  
  Learning Curve: its not hard but the controlls isue wath I sayd above.
  
  Time spend: This 
 is hard, because everybody is differend, but with the multiplayer you will atleast make 20 hours.
 
  
  Classification: It isnt very new to old FC players, and graphically the difference is not that 
 extreemely big. so its good for new FC player, but not for the oldies.
  
  I hope I have helped you in your dession, and have a good time with the game if you would buy it 
 !
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Smiddy_666
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jun 28, 2006 6:25 am PT
Review:  Far Cry: Instincts: Predator for the XBOX 360 is great and addicting!
  
  It features 2 single player story modes - Instincts and Evolution. The single player game is very 
 fun to play. Multiplayer on XBOX LIVE or splitscreen is a hoot!!
  The graphics are very nice, bright and beautiful. They are Xbox textures right through the game 
 but the water effects are gorgeous, and the draw distance has been improved on the 360.
  The controls are easy to use, not very sure about what people have been saying about them being 
 bad, sloppy or sticky?
  
  Overall a very fun game, lots of singleplayer and great multiplayer make this an addicting game 
 worth your money!!!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: cpttemplar
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jun 24, 2006 6:53 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: A very fun mix of stealth and run-and-gun shooting is included in this game, but when 
 the game goes from its lucious forests to its claustrophobic mines and testing facililties, the 
 game begins to lose its finess (or however you spell that)
  
  Graphics: The game is very similar to the Far Cry Instincts on the original XBOX, items are a bit 
 sharper, and some things have more detail but otherwise they are very similar. The only extreme 
 differences are some of the lighting effects, the distance of view, and the water effects which 
 are some of the best i have ever seen.
  
  Sound: Sounds okay, some of the pervasice swearing kind of brings it down.
  
  Value: Its two 
 different games in one, so their is a lot of game to go through, and it also which is quite fun 
 but not as good as some of the other games for this console.
  
  Far Cry Predator is a pretty good game even with its graphical flaws. The one thing that is extrmely 
 annoying about it though is taht you must complete the Instincts story to be able to move on the 
 Predator story. You may use the cheat though. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MADVLAD123
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 22, 2006 4:16 pm PT
Review:  First of all, I must start by saying that this game is only fresh and fun if you have not played 
 the original far cry's ... Luckily I have never played the Xbox or PC version so I will be able 
 to provide an unbiased and fair review...
  
  GRAPHICS:
  I grew up playing a Super Family Computer for my entire life until 4 years ago when I moved to 
 Canada. I saw a whole new opportunity of gaming and I got myself an Xbox... soon (about 1 year ago) 
 I got my hands on the 360... What I am trying to say is that graphics seem amazing to me all the 
 time compared to the Super Family Computer (Nintendo) . Although everything to me is amazing, Far 
 Cry stands out to me the most because of its bright, vibrant, and beautiful graphics. The draw 
 distance, the true-to-life water graphics, the life like and cool rag doll, and the nice lighting 
 all create an immersive and wonderful environment which is truly amazing. Although you may have 
 heard that its graphics are not up to par by 360 standards, I was still amazed by this game. Do 
 not be discouraged to buy this game because of what people are saying. The graphics are truly amazing 
 and will amaze you as soon as you put the CD in the 360.
  
  SOUND: 
  The sound is as amazing as the graphics. These two combined will make you think that you are actually 
 on a beach of a tropical paradise. The most amazing part of the sound is the ambience. It works 
 really well in a surround sound system. The cawing and screaming of the tropical birds will be 
 on your tail at all times, the slow and tranquil rush and sway of the leaves and water as you walk 
 through them, and the satisfying crunch of the sand as you ran on them will all surround you in 
 the environment. The sound is also exceptional during cutsense, for the voice acting is excellent. 
 You will hear the mercenaries and pirates screaming in a menacing way and you will hear the fear 
 in their voices as you leap towards them with your feral powers. The sound is top-notch and is 
 definately what holds up this game. 
  
  GAMEPLAY:
  At first when I started playing I became worried. I though that this will be just another generic 
 run and gun shooter with the same qualities as other games with a different packaging. I soon realised 
 that I was wrong when I began dying countless times due to these thoughts. This game requires great 
 stealth and intelligence as to how to position yourself in a tactical way. Stealth works great 
 in this game. The traps and the slow and careful stalking really puts you in the mood and feeling 
 that you are a predator. The surprises kept on coming when I was soon faced with the feral abilities 
 which became more developed and advanced as I progressed through the game. It is really satisfying 
 when you leap at your enemy with your claws ready to sink into his flesh (that sounds pretty psychotic 
 but its true) . I also must stress that this game is HARD. I play it on normal difficulty and I 
 have died many many times and have encountered many tough opponents, but due to its fun and innovative 
 gameplay, I was always willing to go back and try again. After a couple of weeks of great fun, 
 I managed to finish the Instincts campaign... but it was not over, for I now realised that there 
 was another campaign ahead of me: the Evolution campaign. I have yet to start that campaign but 
 I am already excited just talking about it. I was also surprised with the multiplayer. It is very 
 well done, and the map-making feature makes it very fun and always creative. It is very easy to 
 download people's maps and share yours with others... So to close up this section, let me just say 
 that the gameplay is SUPERB!
  
  VALUE:
  The single player campaign has kept me busy for a long time, and I am still working on it. The 
 multiplayer will surely keep me coming back to the game, and I basically have had a great time 
 with this game. 
  
  OVERALL: 
  After reading this review I am pretty sure you know what I will say here, so I will just keep it 
 short and say: THIS IS AN AWESOME GAME! THOSE OF YOU WHO HAVE NEVER EXPERIENCED THIS GAME SHOULD 
 GET THIS INSTANTLY! 
  
  Hope you like this review :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 360player
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 21, 2006 2:22 pm PT
Review:  Far Cry Instincts Predator is one of those good games, but no ones played it. One of the major 
 thing about this game is the multiplayer. Because there are a lot of people out there that are 
 just like me and get games for live, this is a must have! 
  A good thing about the multiplayer is that it lets you make your own maps, and share them with 
 the rest of the world through Xbox live. The map editor actually has a degree of entertainment. 
 If you don't have any friends online you can make a map. The only thing about making maps is that 
 to make a good map, it might take 2-3 hours or more. It takes a little while to figure out the 
 controls, but after you make your first map, you shouldn't have to look at the controls anymore. 
 If you go on live, most of the maps are really good. Like people make caves, which i have no idea 
 how to do. And different tunnels coming out of the cave. They get pretty complex. Another good 
 thing is that after you play with someone else's map, you can use it, and I think you can edit 
 it too.
  This is a really fun game, but i've only played the first level, which was pretty fun, so I don't 
 know how good the story mode is. But I love this game. I could play it for hours, and hours on 
 live. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mattybman
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 19, 2006 7:52 am PT
Review:  So I got this game about 2 weeks ago, it's pretty cool. The game is especially hard for me, as 
 this is the first ever fps i have played lol. It was hard getting used to the controls, but they 
 came to me after a while. The graphics are quite good, but not up to the usual Xbox360 standard, 
 it feels like a slightly upraded xbox game. The aiming system is appalling, meaning you have to 
 be within 20 foot of the enemy unless you're using a gun with a scope. Also for noob players (including 
 me) even on the rookie level, you will die an astonishing amount of times, thought it gets easier 
 as you go along. The best points of the game are the online multiplayer, which are great fun or 
 just staring at the sea on tropical levels, as the sea looks brillaint.
  
  Pros
  - Graphics are lush in tropical island levels
  - Fun game for online
  - Nice idea of a game
 
  
  Cons
  - Poor Aiming System
  - Graphics not up to Xbox 360 standards
  - Game can get repetitve for new gamers as they will
  die again and again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: StanleyHandyman
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jun 18, 2006 4:01 pm PT
Review:  This game doesn't even match up to any FarCry games its just too sloppy.
  
  Gameplay
  Good: Well its FarCRY but.....
  Bad: The controls are way too sloppy for it to be fun, there 
 is no happy mediums in the thumbstick sensitivity
  
  Graphics
  Good: They are a little sharper than the Xbox versions
  Bad: Even though they are a little sharper 
 they aren't to impressive
  
  Sound
  Good: Same sound effects from the first game.
  Bad: Nothing thats bad about it
  
  Value
  Two campaigns to play through which you think would 
 be fun except if you've played FarCry instincts your playing through it again just to unlock the 
 new campaign. Online isnt very fun. Lots of achevements though.
  
  Overall
  If your a FarCry fan and must have this game than get it ,but if not there are other better shooters 
 on the market for the 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pms81350
Rating: 6.8
Date: Jun 18, 2006 5:52 am PT
Review:  After playing the PC version of Far Cry for over a year now, I was more than a little disappointed 
 with the quality of the graphics and the audio as well. This title looks like it was whipped out 
 just because there was a platform for it. I purchased an X-Box 360 to take advantage of my home 
 theater but I might as well be playing it on my kids TV. If you're going to port a title, then port 
 it. If not then change it from the ground up. Same Ai dialogue from the PC and it sounds hollow, almost 
 as if it were dubbed. Overall the graphics were worse than playing it on the PC with all the settings 
 lowered. Once again this gives it the feel of it being created just because they could. If this were 
 a woodworking project, they would still be sanding. When you're dealing with a franchise like Far 
 Cry it behooves you as a designer to adhere to certain criteria and 
  fidelity to the original. It wasn't a very challenging experience, as you would 
  expect from a 
 Far Cry title and trust me, at my age (55) even entering account information into the X-Box 360's 
 virtual keyboard turns into a mini-game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jemlyn
Rating: 8.2
Date: Aug 3, 2006 1:08 am PT
Review:  I know a lot of people seem to have some major problems with this game, but I must admit I was 
 blown away by Far Cry Instincts on Xbox, and similarly impressed with it's sequel Evolutions. The 
 fact that both titles appear together on this disc makes it all the more worthwhile, though obviously 
 not for those that already own the others.
  
  Let's focus on the few and slight improvements. Those familiar with the Xbox versions will notice 
 the water effects have taken a true next-gen step. Realistic waves and ripples are a really nice 
 touch, it's a shame everything couldn't have been visually enhanced so well. Those with a half 
 decent sound system and a good ear may notice an improvement in sound quality as well, mostly subtle, 
 but obvious when you fire off a nice, bass-ridden mortar round. BOOOM and then some! I personally 
 detected a slight increase in difficulty on the normal setting, and found myself dying more often. 
 It's a welcome challenge though, and feels better than the Xbox version.
  
  Really the most refreshing and time-consuming aspect of Far Cry Instincts Predator is it's excellent 
 map editor. There's really not much you can't design as long as you have a little patience and 
 creativity. My girlfriend is absolutely addicted to building maps on this game (she's hogging the 
 360 right now!) , and I couldn't believe I'd spent five hours on it last week until I realized the 
 sun was going down. It's a great feature, and one a few other titles would do well to emulate (Halo 
 3 map editor, anyone?) .
  
  There are a few negatives. Generally the graphics are not to a next-gen standard, and this may 
 disappoint. The loading times can be agonizing, though these are really only prevalent when starting 
 the game up, and navigating between menus and the editor, etc. You unfortunately cannot play the 
 Evolutions chapter until you have beaten the Instincts chapter, and I really wouldn't recommend 
 Predator to anyone who owns (or at least played often) the Xbox versions, as there is little new 
 on offer. 
  
  If though, like me, you're a real fan of those games and hungry for additions to your 360 collection 
 you'd most likely consider Predator be an essential purchase. If you're unfamiliar with the series, 
 perhaps rent it first to be sure it suits your tastes. Far Cry Instincts Predator doesn't break 
 any new ground, but it's entertaining and fun to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zweihanderhero
Rating: 6
Date: Jun 14, 2006 8:06 am PT
Review:  If there ever was a contest on the most updated FPS in recent history Farcry would sure as hell 
 get it. First it came out for the PC, then the Xbox and now the 360. Each edtion boasted some new 
 additions (tongue twister! Say that 5 times in a row as fast as you can!) with the PC to Xbox port 
 being the most substantial.
  
  Farcry Instincts on the Xbox rocked. I should knowI gave it pretty high scores when I reviewed 
 it late last year. Farcry Instincts Predator for the Xbox 360 thoughwell, it doesnt rock. Theres 
 a lesson to be learnt here. Never assume a good game, when ported over to a new system with a fresh 
 coat of paint and some add ons will get the same (or higher) acclaim.
  
  Farcry Instincts Predator is actually 2 games in one neat little package. It has the original Farcry 
 Instincts game from the Xbox and a new single player campaign mode for those who played the original 
 game. Heres where the developers made their first mistake. They assume that those who finish Farcry 
 Instincts would WANT to replay Farcry again so they made the whole second campaign unavailable 
 off the bat. One word sums it all: Why? What made them make such a boneheaded decision, Ill never 
 know. I played the original Farcry and while it was nice, I have no desire to play through it again 
 anytime soon. I just wanted to see the new content goddamn it, not waste 10+ hours slogging through 
 the old game just to see the new parts! Its not as if the damn games are integrated or anything, 
 the second campaign is just that, a totally new story! So kiddies, like it or not, youre gonna 
 be screwed having to play the original Farcry and let me tell you, it does NOT age well.
  
  The new campaign isnt all that good. Its about half the length of the main game, which isnt 
 saying much. Truth be told, its like playing the main game at times, everything is so familiar. 
 Most of the same guns, some of the same enemiesyou know the drilldj vu territory. A massive 
 letdown it was as I was honestly expecting something to take advantage of the 360s horsepower.
 
  
  Farcry starts off wellfor the first five minutes, then everything goes to hell. The first half 
 of the game is too ambitious for its own good, the second half too generic. The first half has 
 you sneaking around a jungle mostly, hiding from your enemies and taking them out swiftly and silently. 
 Well, that was the plan anyways. Due to a crappy AI though, the first half of the game is totally 
 a chore. No matter how well you think youre hidden, chances are youll be spotted by the inhuman 
 eyes of the baddies. Nevermind that you cant even see whats right in front of you as youre covered 
 by dense foliage, that doesnt matter to the baddies! THEY can see you, if you cant see where 
 the hell you are in the first place. Add to that the lame ass physics engine in the game (enemies 
 dont even react when shot!) and youll be cussing yourself for even thinking of getting interested 
 in the game in the first place. The AI is wildly inconsistent, marksmen one moment, complete morons 
 who cant hit the broadside of a barn the next. Hell, when the enemies shoot at you, either they 
 will hit (no matter from how far) or theyll completely nail the tree thats 20 meters away from 
 you. To compensate for you getting shot (a lot) , the developers have kindly scattered a ton of 
 medkits throughout. Geez, they sure made life easiertoo bad NOBODY thought of fixing the broken 
 checkpoint system. Like the AI, the checkpoints too are inconsistent. Some are so close to each 
 other, others take more then 15 or more minutes to reach from the previous one. Add to the fact 
 that youll probably die and have to repeat sections, what it equals to is massive amounts of funNOT!
 
  
  Controls too are a problem in the game, the vehicles seem to be looser than I remembered, flying 
 all over the place at the slightest bump. The worst offender though is the broken aiming. I tried 
 adjusting the sensitivity, I tried using a different controller but in the end, it just doesnt 
 matter. The response time is either too fast or too slow. Note this is the first FPS ever where 
 Ive had to adjust the settings from the default and STILL couldnt get a satisfactory result. 
 If you cant aim worth a damn, whats the use of having guns? Thats precisely why I went and hammered 
 enemies with my fist from the second half of the game onwards.
  
  The only truly redeeming factor in the whole deal is the mapmaker. Deceptively easy to use, yet 
 incredibly frustrating to get right, the mapmaker lets you create your own maps to play on and 
 if you like, even share them online. Not that a lot of people are playing this online in the first 
 placePerfect Dark Zero, a launch title has more people playing at one then Farcry. I kid you not!
 
  
  The much ballyhooed updated graphics isnt worth a damn. I admit, I saw the realistic water demo 
 video and thought it kicked ass! It still kicked ass in the game but the rest of the graphics still 
 are average quality at best. Apart from the requisite beefier models and higher res textures, most 
 of the game has a decidedly current generation feel to it, like Battlefield 2 did. Foliage still 
 sucks, even with the new horsepower of the 360 the developers are too lazy (or arent able at all) 
 to do realistic trees and grass. A single texture thats painted green and made to resemble a leaf 
 doesnt make it next gen. Hell, the bushes dont even react when you crawl through them or interact 
 with them. Updated and improved my ass!
  
  Ambient sounds give the game a deceptively serene atmosphere though. The birds chirpings, the sound 
 of waves washing ashorethats nice and kinda fits the game though the music is sparse and only 
 occurs at set pieces. Voices are pretty average but hey, who bothers, right?
  All in all, if you REALLY must have a FPS to play on the 360, Farcry fits the billbarely. Its 
 more recommended to those who missed the original game than to those who want to play the extraseven 
 then its still a crapshoot if youll like it. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: BigC43
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 13, 2006 8:28 am PT
Review:  You get Far Cry Instincts: Predator for the Xbox 360! For those who don't know, Predator is the 
 exact same thing as both the original Far Cry Instincts and Far Cry Instincts: Evolution on the 
 Xbox, but they look a lot prettier on the Xbox 360. It's also only compatable with the Xbox 360 
 version, so you can't play with your friends who own a 360 unless you have this game. You play 
 as Jack Carver, a dude who's having a very bad day. His boat it sunk on the coast of a tropical 
 island and he must kill all of the bloodthirsty mercenaries standing between him and freedom. Carver 
 is also experemented on, giving him abilities that no other human has, which he can use to let 
 his primal instincts loose. Everything you loved about the original Xbox versions of both the original 
 Instincts and Evolution is intact here, and the already fantastic graphics look even better and 
 more realistic on the Xbox 360. The biggest question is, if you already own the original versions 
 of the game, why should you buy this one? If graphics are a kicker for you, then Predator doesn't 
 dissapoint. It also supports several 360 exclusive features, so that may also help with your decision. 
 If you loved the orignal versions and demand the ultimate Far Cry experience, this is the version 
 for you!
  
  Gameplay: Wild, frantic shooter action with cool feral abilities and great multiplayer modes make 
 this a great game.
  
  Graphics: Even flashier than the original version!!!
  
  Sound: The sound has also been improved to use the Xbox 360's potential.
  
  Value: It costs 
 $60, which is the standard price for 360 games, but you can find it used for $50 and it is two 
 games in one!
  
  Final Remarks: Although it may not be worth upgrading to this version for some gamers, this is 
 still the best version of both games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: treyskillz
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 12, 2006 11:29 am PT
Review:  Far Cry is one of the games that you hear about but never play... it less thats what happened to 
 me. I never got to play it on xbox but thankfully it came out for X360, and I got my chance. Far 
 Cry Instincts is a great game already, but Predator adds Evolution, Touched-up grahics, and MapMaker. 
 MapMaker is reason enough to get this game for some stupid and crazy ideas you and your friends 
 come up with or you can go online and download other people's maps. Some people are really good 
 at it and they make great maps, look out those ones.
  
  If you haven't play Far Cry yet get this, its a great FPS, but if you already have played it for 
 xbox there isn't much reason to get it besides to play on your 360 instead of you xbox.
  
  Downside:
  Xbox 1 graphics
  Evolution could be better
  
  Flipside:
  Great FPS
  Two 
 games for a next gen price
  Multiplayer Madness
  MapMaker (really fun) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HAMODA
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 25, 2006 3:18 am PT
Review:  First of all, I must start by saying that this game is only fresh and fun if you have not played 
 the original far cry's ... Luckily I have never played the Xbox or PC version so I will be able 
 to provide an unbiased and fair review...
  
  GRAPHICS:
  I grew up playing a Super Family Computer for my entire life until 4 years ago when I moved to 
 Canada. I saw a whole new opportunity of gaming and I got myself an Xbox... soon (about 1 year ago) 
 I got my hands on the 360... What I am trying to say is that graphics seem amazing to me all the 
 time compared to the Super Family Computer (Nintendo) . Although everything to me is amazing, Far 
 Cry stands out to me the most because of its bright, vibrant, and beautiful graphics. The draw 
 distance, the true-to-life water graphics, the life like and cool rag doll, and the nice lighting 
 all create an immersive and wonderful environment which is truly amazing. Although you may have 
 heard that its graphics are not up to par by 360 standards, I was still amazed by this game. Do 
 not be discouraged to buy this game because of what people are saying. The graphics are truly amazing 
 and will amaze you as soon as you put the CD in the 360.
  
  SOUND:
  The sound is as amazing as the graphics. These two combined will make you think that you are actually 
 on a beach of a tropical paradise. The most amazing part of the sound is the ambience. It works 
 really well in a surround sound system. The cawing and screaming of the tropical birds will be 
 on your tail at all times, the slow and tranquil rush and sway of the leaves and water as you walk 
 through them, and the satisfying crunch of the sand as you ran on them will all surround you in 
 the environment. The sound is also exceptional during cutsense, for the voice acting is excellent. 
 You will hear the mercenaries and pirates screaming in a menacing way and you will hear the fear 
 in their voices as you leap towards them with your feral powers. The sound is top-notch and is 
 definately what holds up this game.
  
  GAMEPLAY:
  At first when I started playing I became worried. I though that this will be just another generic 
 run and gun shooter with the same qualities as other games with a different packaging. I soon realised 
 that I was wrong when I began dying countless times due to these thoughts. This game requires great 
 stealth and intelligence as to how to position yourself in a tactical way. Stealth works great 
 in this game. The traps and the slow and careful stalking really puts you in the mood and feeling 
 that you are a predator. The surprises kept on coming when I was soon faced with the feral abilities 
 which became more developed and advanced as I progressed through the game. It is really satisfying 
 when you leap at your enemy with your claws ready to sink into his flesh (that sounds pretty psychotic 
 but its true) . I also must stress that this game is HARD. I play it on normal difficulty and I 
 have died many many times and have encountered many tough opponents, but due to its fun and innovative 
 gameplay, I was always willing to go back and try again. After a couple of weeks of great fun, 
 I managed to finish the Instincts campaign... but it was not over, for I now realised that there 
 was another campaign ahead of me: the Evolution campaign. I have yet to start that campaign but 
 I am already excited just talking about it. I was also surprised with the multiplayer. It is very 
 well done, and the map-making feature makes it very fun and always creative. It is very easy to 
 download people's maps and share yours with others... So to close up this section, let me just say 
 that the gameplay is SUPERB!
  
  VALUE:
  The single player campaign has kept me busy for a long time, and I am still working on it. The 
 multiplayer will surely keep me coming back to the game, and I basically have had a great time 
 with this game.
  
  OVERALL:
  After reading this review I am pretty sure you know what I will say here, so I will just keep it 
 short and say: THIS IS AN AWESOME GAME! THOSE OF YOU WHO HAVE NEVER EXPERIENCED THIS GAME SHOULD 
 GET THIS INSTANTLY!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: gameboy360
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jun 9, 2006 11:04 pm PT
Review:  The new Far Cry has somewhat of better graphics, but a little bit too much run and gun gameplay. 
 The map editor is really what holds my attention.
  The games player models now look slightly smoother and sharper but nothing real great. The story 
 characters, in the cut scenes, look just odd. Their skin is just bumpy and looks a little blocky 
 in places, their hair looks frozen, and limbs just don't look right.
  The gameplay has not 'evolved' (not so much in a good way) from hide and ambush, or guerilla tactics, 
 to run side to side hoping they dont hit you, and now that you start out with feral the edge of 
 a wild firefight is kinda gone. It is nice seeing people being flung through the air with your 
 clawing ability.
  The map editor is where this one shines. You can create your own maps, like in the last ones, from 
 a chunk of sand to a living, breathing forest, which will later be splattered with your enemies 
 blood, or your own.
  So if your a fan of the others this is still good, but for newbies, you should go with the earlier 
 ones. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JoeyHawk
Rating: 6.7
Date: Jun 9, 2006 5:50 pm PT
Review:  Far Cry Instincts Predator is a port of Far Cry Instincts for the Xbox. Not only does it get a 
 longer name, but also a new addition to the story mode, which was released separately on the Xbox 
 as Far Cry Instincts Evolution.
  
  This game sounds really good on paper. Sporting the original and new story modes, plus loads of 
 online modes and a map editor. An FPS fan's dream, right? Wrong. This game has so much wasted potential... 
 and here's why.
  
  Graphics. Meh. I thought the Far Cry series was known for their awesome foliage effects? I don't 
 know where you're from, but here, leaves don't look like green construction paper.
  
  Sound... average. It serves it's purpose, but it's nothing special. Standard gunfire, slashing 
 noises, footsteps, Jack Carver yelling "Awww ****!" when he falls off of a high latter. Everything's 
 there.
  
  Gameplay is good, I guess. PDZ is much better.
  
  The story mode is really not worth your time. Brain-dead enemy A. I., boring shooting, and down-right 
 stupid vehicle control.
  
  And, of course, the online mode. I actually spent quite a while with the online mode, and it was 
 quite fun, unlike the rest of this game. The map editor is also very fun to use, but having to 
 download user-created maps half of the time is so very annoying.
  
  Overall, if you're thinking about buying this game, rent it. This is only for the hardest of hardcore 
 Far Cry fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SSJAssassin
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jun 9, 2006 7:44 am PT
Review:  Not much to say, this game is just okay, good graphics, nice multiplayer but could be better. Single 
 player is fun but can get repetitive. Map editor is great, but there are some glitches..
  I have played Farcry for a while, mostly in map editor. It needs a lot of player to have fun. I 
 would reccomend renting this game. Just not a buy for me. It's still fun though, I'm wating for 
 Crysis..
  - - - - - - - - - - - - - ---- -- -- -- -- -- ----- -- -- -- -- --- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- ----- 
 -- ------- ---- - -- ---- -- ---- -- -- - ----- -- - -- ----- - ----- ----- - - - - - --- -- - 
 --- - -- --- ------- - - - -- 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dyeoh
Rating: 4.1
Date: Jun 8, 2006 10:23 pm PT
Review:  I really gave this a thorough chance to impress, but have to say it is my most disappointing Xbox 
 360 game purchase to date. Graphics, animations and the general "feel" of the movement, vehicle 
 control and the "one person per Xbox" restriction for multi-player system link or Xbox Live render 
 this game inferior to other early release 360 shooters such as Perfect Dark, Call of Duty 2 and 
 GRAW.
  
  When compared to the original 2004 PC Far Cry release, the game fares even worse. It comes across 
 very much as a "dumbed down" poor man's version of the PC game, and IMO doesn't even remotely live 
 up to the high standards set by the original.
  
  Overall, mediocre when considered in isolation from its PC progenitor, when measured against the 
 original Far Cry, downright disappointing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HammerMan333
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 8, 2006 4:41 pm PT
Review:  Far Cry - greatest thing to hit the 360 besides G. R. A. W. & Oblivion. People who are dissapointed 
 with this game are retareded. I can't aim I'm such a retard. Take the five seconds to go to go 
 to the controller options to change the controller sensitivity tard **** I'm super serial. Gameplay 
 is so amazing. I do agree that the graphics could have been improved and online does have a couple 
 problems but the tards are missing the many great possitives about this amazing, revolutionary 
 game. Map editor will never get old, I'm suprised that not many other games try to replicate this 
 idea. Also, the game doesn't become dr y after a couple of houras, some people are just tards. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EXxile
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jun 8, 2006 12:59 pm PT
Review:  As a person who has never played Far Cry Instincts on the original Xbox it was like enjoying two 
 brand new games to me. The idea of the game is great, and playing through the first Far Cry you 
 don't realize what lies ahead for you. Stroyline is awesome, and the gameplay is addicting and 
 setting traps has never been so fun and rewarding. I love the fact that you get enhanced with animal 
 instincts, and the way the story continues to remain polished is golden to me. Never once did I 
 feel that the game's storyline drag, and this goes for both games. Though the graphics are really 
 nice to look at, they do fall short all in all. Seeing how the Far Cry's on the Xbox display the 
 Xbox's power, I expected the same from this version. However, it fail short. The enemy character 
 models are hideous as well as the indoor environments. But where those fall, others shine. The 
 jungles burst with life with ocean waters to top it off and the sounds all sound authentic. A. I. 
 is moderate but has obvious hiccups during their quests to find you. Don't have enough time to 
 write more but the fact is this; Far Cry Predator offers you two great games with awesome online 
 multiplayer, and oh yea, did I mention you can create your own maps? Theres no way that a game 
 that offers you this much two full games that are both great deserves any less than an 8.5. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: twiggysmallz69
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 8, 2006 8:47 am PT
Review:  FarCry Instincts Predator has a very short campaign plus the graffics are cheaper than anyother 
 xbox 360 first person shooter. I played i for both original xbox and the 360 graffics the same. 
 I believe they rushed this game could of bin alot better with time. Predator took around 5 -7 hours 
 to beat the campaign, the online is glitchy but great predator mode. I wouldnt recommend this game 
 but if you havent played the original your realy missing out on a great shooter plus i believe 
 its on top for original xbox games. z z z z z z z z z z z z z z z z z z z zz z z z z z z z z z 
 z z z z z z z z z z z z z z z z z z z z z z z z z z z z z z z z z z z 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joshismetal
Rating: 4
Date: Jun 5, 2006 7:24 pm PT
Review:  theres not much to say about this rather boring FPS game. the whole basis of this game is to sneek 
 around a stupid jungle and kill the same looking characters over and over again. thats not even 
 where i am going to begin with the problems with this game. theres bugs and control problems all 
 over this game. some buttons dont work properly and on top of it the game gliches like crazy. online 
 play is a bore and cheaters heaven for modders and stand bye players. i do not reccomend this game 
 to anyone plain and simple. buy any other fps but this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dubbsy69
Rating: 6.2
Date: Jun 5, 2006 10:10 am PT
Review:  
  I've played the PC version (which is still a great game even to this day) and now after having 
 played the 360 copy it leaves me utterly dissapointed. I was hoping to give this game a good run, 
 but I just wanted to throw it away after merely 1hr running through the jungle. The controls just 
 felt sluggish, the aiming never seemed right at all. The actual motion of shooting just for some 
 reason didn't feel right and it wasn't enjoyable at all to dispatch the enemies in my opinion. 
 In fact I preferred sneaking up on people and stabbing them in the back but you can only play stealthy 
 for so long...
  
  Anyways, I think in order to be a great first person shooter, you have to first capture the feel 
 of combat and make it as fun as possible and make you want to get further in the game.
  
  In my humble opinion this game failed in that department and perhaps if I had played a few more 
 hours maybe things would get better... but the bottom line is to me this version is by far one of 
 the more boring games and left me with little interest in playing it anymore. Sure the graphics 
 where ok and all that but if the gameplay isn't all that great whats the point..
  
  That's all from me folks - for those who did enjoy it, my apologies for trying to burst that bubble. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lordhebe
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 4, 2006 9:27 am PT
Review:  With the Xbox-360 only just out, owners like my self turn to whatever new games there are for the 
 system to satisfy the need for more next gen loveliness. I have never played any of the other Far 
 Cries or the original instincts this was only 40 (which was cheap for an Xbox-360 game and i had 
 loads of money from Christmas) so I decided to get Far Cry Instincts Predator for the Xbox-360. 
 Before i had two games, Full Auto and Elder Scrolls: Oblivion and despite those games full next 
 gen titles developed for the 360, Far Cry Instincts Predator still holds up to next gen standards 
 when it comes to sheer frantic and fast game-play with huge and detailed environments. Far Cry 
 IP looks brilliant, it has the best water effects I have ever seen and well designed weapons, unfortunately 
 the environments look very washed out and fuzzy especially when compared to Oblivion. Although 
 the best thing about the game is of course the brilliant, fun and addictive game-play. It's genius 
 mix of stealth and Gun ho is FPS heaven, and now there is more of it than ever before, as Far Cry 
 Instincts Predator is two games in one, Far Cry Instincts and Far Cry Instincts Evolution. They 
 are the same as on X-box but improved. Overall I highly recommend if you haven't got the originals 
 and have an Xbox-360, that you get this as it's fun, fast, beautiful and amazing value for money. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Colin_B91
Rating: 6
Date: Jun 3, 2006 5:17 pm PT
Review:  I first got this game on the xbox and never really played the single player.. It was always just 
 the multiplayer. But now I have it for the 360 and nothings changed. The single player just doesn't 
 have the appeal. Multiplayer was good for a while but even with the ability to create maps it just 
 doesn't deliver. When I got this game I was ready to jump straight in and play the Evolution storyline 
 but was shocked to find out that I had to complete instincts first which I had already completed 
 on the xbox, this just put me off completely.. Don't get this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kash_1095
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 2, 2006 6:02 pm PT
Review:  Far Cry instincts predator is a game made by Ubisoft Montreal, and its very meh at its most.
  
  Gameplay:
  The game features two campaigns, Far Cry instincts and Far Cry instincts Evolution, 
 They are EXACTLY the same Gameplay wise, No freaking difference exept for the story and characters. 
 Basically Instincts puts you in the role of Jack Carver, who later on gets injected with this serum 
 and becomes a sorta badass super strong animal-man i will NOT spoil the story for you. In evolution 
 Carver still has his powers but now, with a different story. The gameplay is fun but theres just 
 nothing new compared to the xbox version of both games.
  
  Graphics:
  Graphics are good but they just dont live up to the xbox 360 standards.
  This game looks more 
 like an XBOX game in HD, which isnt too good judging by the power of the XBOX 360. The graphics 
 could have been something but oh well. But this game does maintain a solid framerate, exept online....
 
  
  Sound:
  This game has some great voice acting, good music, so id say the sound is a highlight for a game 
 like this.
  
  Value:
  Once you beat this game theres just nothing more to do, no point of playing it again, unless you 
 are an achievements freak.
  
  Tilt:
  Well this game has a good camera i guess.
  
  In the end Far Cry instincts predator is a good game, but i feels like its a souped up XBOX game, 
 and it is roughly unchanged from the XBOX version gameplay wise. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cartmanstein
Rating: 8.8
Date: May 25, 2006 8:30 pm PT
Review:  Even though the game places a big arsenal at the palm of your hands, including "scary man" powers. 
 With so many ways to approach a fighting situation, Predator is more intelligent than any other 
 shooter that I have ever laid my little eyes on, and allows you to play however you want. Would 
 you like to emulate Sam Fisher, or just charge straight into the battlefeild? Do you want to use 
 traps to kill your enemies, or shoot them head-on? It's all up to you. This thing also includes 
 the first Far-Cry, and it's sequel, Evolution, which makes Predator about as action-packed as a 
 video game can get. The campaigns put you in the shoes of Jack Carver, some dude that got blessed 
 with inhuman powers and a savage mind. You have to play through the first game to unlock Evolution. 
 The second campaign feels alot easier than than the first, because the AI in Instincts has been 
 made deadlier and much more difficult to give those who played the Xbox version a reason to play 
 it. There are many moments in Instincts where foes act stupid and make glitchy mistakes, and they 
 are all a deadly bunch, and Instincts is a long, hard challenge. Evolution seemed way easier to 
 me, but it's not without the parts where I always get stuck. Multiplayer is lot's of fun, but I 
 experienced some lags with online play. This title is plenty of game for your money, and has tons 
 of thrills to give enough nightmares to scare the living hell out of Freddie Krueger. Overall, 
 this game kicks @$$, and I can't wait to see what Ubisoft comes up with next for Far-Cry. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: raymcd2007
Rating: 4
Date: May 25, 2006 7:52 am PT
Review:  I paid 50 for this game thinking i would be delving into the power of the xbox 360. Having bought 
 the three most outstanding fps on the 360 (Quake 4, COD 2 and GRAW) I believed that a treat was 
 comng my way...... Wrong.
  
  The game embarasses me to be honest i felt like i was going back in time. I cant believe the difference 
 in graphics and variation in other games ie Oblivion (where you could spend months to complete) 
 to this game. I can tell you right now that if your considering buying this game for the 360 and 
 you allready have an xbox, just go for the latter because you will be getting the same thing. Trust 
 me I have been playing video games for 20 years.
  
  If you really wanna play it because your a fan of fps or this series in paticular then i suggest 
 you rent it.
  
  For the record I have to say that this game has to be the most dissapointing episode ive ever experienced 
 on a console. Shame. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 09BA8053
Rating: 8.7
Date: May 22, 2006 3:47 pm PT
Review:  This game is and all around good game. Their is a good single player campaign, actually their is 
 two. The first one is from the original xbox game revamped for the xbox 360 and then the new Evolution 
 campaign which i think looks a little better than the first. This game also has a cool map editor 
 so you can create and share your maps online or play multiplayer on them. The graphics on this 
 game a pretty good, especially the water graphics, they are great, i have never seen water look 
 this good on a game. The enemy AI is also pretty good. 
  
  Over all i would recommend this game even if you had the original Far Cry for the xbox1. It's worth 
 the money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KaseyJamesOwns
Rating: 8
Date: May 21, 2006 4:59 pm PT
Review:  The Good: One of the best shooters on the Xbox comes to the Xbox 360; two single-player campaigns 
 and a big multiplayer suite to play; tons of excellent gameplay to experience, especially if you 
 never played far cry instincts.
  
  The Bad: The new campaign not as sharp as the original campaign; graphics, while good, aren't quite 
 up to xbox 360 standards; mostly redundant if you played last year's xbox version.
  
  If you didn't play Far Cry Instincts on the Xbox last year, then you'll definitely get a lot of 
 value out of Predator, since you're effectively getting two games as well as the multiplayer suite. 
 This is a good package that offers a ton of excellent content to chew through, especially if you're 
 trying to unlock the myriad achievements. Far Cry Instincts veterans, on the other hand, may balk 
 at the full price -- in which case you have some good news. You can pick up the Xbox version of Predator 
 (titled Far Cry Instincts Evolution) and get just the new campaign, at a lower price. (You also 
 won't have to play through the original campaign again to unlock the new campaign) . And on a standard-definition 
 display, it'll be hard to tell the difference, anyway. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zealot51
Rating: 7
Date: May 19, 2006 11:04 am PT
Review:  the game itself is a good value for money because its 2 games in one but the graphics overall are 
 pretty much the same as the origonal.
  
  the gameplay is very entertaining jumping out of the bushes and smacking someone 10 foot in the 
 air but it all gets a little repetative after a while. the maps are quite big especially the first 
 map on evolution its three tropical islands and you will be using your feral run to get around 
 alot.
  
  the character models look last gen but dont let it put you off its still fun ( if you havnt played 
 the origonal ) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NickE189
Rating: 9.9
Date: May 17, 2006 6:11 pm PT
Review:  As soon as you begin, you're being shoot at, your swimming for you're life, and you're already 
 climbing cliffs. This action packed game has been the thrill of the 360 so far. This game out-plays 
 and out-captivates GRAW and Call of Duty. I'm a strong 1st person shooter gamer and rarely branch 
 out, with the exception to Elder Scrolls, and I have to say that this game ranks in the same arena 
 as Halo, Half-Life and Doom. As a matter of fact, it combines the best elements of each.
  Just as in Doom, you're scared to death to turn the corners, you'll find yourself in hiding afraid 
 of the enemies at hand. Just as in Halo, there are incredible firefights, and it adds its own touch 
 of stealth and infiltration. This is a revolutionary title, that shows a great future for Ubisoft's 
 game development. 
  If you're not up for non-stop heart pounding action, then this game is not for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ryanwhtkr
Rating: 8.9
Date: May 16, 2006 12:57 pm PT
Review:  Far Cry was one of the best games though. I think this game is good enough to be a movie. I think 
 there should of been more powers to evolve into, then i would of gave this game a perfect. My favorite 
 power was super speed because that is what power i would like the most. Then i like the power to 
 smell things that is another thing that made the game cool. I wish there was a power to be able 
 th breath under water. I also didn't like how you had to beat the original Far Cry instincts first 
 before you play the new one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: magicorange26
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 14, 2006 12:11 pm PT
Review:  Wow. This game is fun. A lot of people are complaining about how the graphics aren't all "next-gen," 
 but it's the gameplay that counts. Besides, the graphics aren't all that bad at all (man, does 
 that water look good) . Setting branch whip traps, riding like a maniac in a variety of vehicles, 
 seeing in the dark, tracking enemies by scent, then proceeding to chase them down and tear them 
 up with a feral attack... good times. Multiplayer will get you hooked. Perhaps my favorite part 
 of this game is the awesome, easy-to-use map editor. You can make tropical, forest, or swamp-looking 
 maps, as well as combine them with several different building sets. The fact that user-created 
 maps can be downloaded in about 20 seconds is a major improvement since the XBox's Far Cry Instincts 
 came out. This game is totally worth buying even if you had Instincts on the XBox. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CriticalDamage
Rating: 8.6
Date: May 14, 2006 2:18 am PT
Review:  The ground-braking series of Far Cry has come to the Xbox 360 with Far Cry Instincts Predator. 
 Could the title be any longer? lol! 
  
  This game is 2 in 1! The first story is Far Cry Instincts, the Xbox game released last year, and 
 the second story is Far Cry Evolutions, the Xbox game released early this year. 
  
  You play the roll of Jack Carver, a navyman turned gunrunner. During an escort for a military reporter, 
 you and your boat are attacked by helicopters and you're forced overboard. You swim to the nearby 
 islands, and that's where the fun starts. The rest of the game, you find yourself gunning thru 
 jungles, forests, and rebel bases. A third of the way thru the story, you'll be captured by your 
 enemy, Crowe, the head of a mercenary militia you've been killing, and he injects you with a new 
 untested drug. You become superhuman, your punches can knock down some doors and can kill an enemy 
 in one swing. The Instincts Story is about 10-15 hours long depending on the difficulty you have 
 it on.
  
  The second story, the Evolutions story, takes place shortly after Instincts. Carver's war against 
 the rebel army is over, but is sucked back in when he takes a gun running assignment from a woman 
 named Kade. Soon after the deal goes sour, you find yourself once again, picking up a gun, and 
 shooting thru tropical hotspots. The Evolutions Story is about 5-9 hours long. Shorter, but still 
 a Far Cry game, right?
  
  This game is basically a straight original Xbox port. You're gunna see near-like Xbox graphics 
 and textures. AI may look stupid sometimes. Lag in online multiplayer. Reticule/crosshair is too 
 big. But if you haven't experienced a Far Cry game before, you will love this game, because of 
 the intense gun battles, and fast car chases. If you are a Far Cry fan, you will enjoy this game 
 (because it's Far Cry!) . Transition from Xbox to Xbox 360 is that graphics have been cleaned up, 
 and the water in this game looks fantastic! 
  
  16 player Xbox Live is fun on a dedicated server (NO LAG!) . Also the Map Editor is great. You can 
 build your own maps and share them with friends on Xbox Live. Chaos, Team Chaos, Seek and Secure, 
 Steal the Sample, and Predator are supported.
  
  A lot of people are saying this game is horrible because they expected a next-gen Far Cry. If you're 
 in that category, don't buy that game. But if you're looking for a good, fun, gaming experience, 
 Far Cry Instincts Predator is for you! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LoneSierra
Rating: 8.1
Date: May 13, 2006 9:40 pm PT
Review:  It's true, the game doesn't live up to next gen graphical standards (well, asides from the water 
 graphics holy crap) but it's still extremely gorgeous.
  If you put the XBOX and 360 version side by side, the graphics are a little sharper now, but for 
 the most part, very unchanged.
  
  The only problem with the game, is that you pay 60 bucks for a game you've already played *if you 
 have* and the second chapter is about half of the first. 
  Luckily a friend of mine bought it, and didn't like it, so I'm getting it for 40 bucks instead. 
 That's about what the game is worth for a player who already has played the first Far Cry.
  
  Just because the graphics dont live up to next gen standards, don't count it out. It's amazing 
 to look at, you won't be dissapointed.
  The game's fun, plain and simple 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crow114
Rating: 8.8
Date: May 13, 2006 11:07 am PT
Review:  This game showed mild signs of difference from the old version for the Xbox. This game has a moderate 
 storyline and great weapons and physics but still the AI leaves alot to be desired by the fact 
 that you can trick them into running into a door so you can kill them. But aside from that this 
 game will keep you busy and allow you to have some very good experiences by stabbing and shooting. But 
 if you did not like the Far Cry for the Xbox then this game is not for you but if you did I reccomend 
 that you get this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: henryfreeman
Rating: 8.7
Date: May 10, 2006 6:59 am PT
Review:  This game is mega adictive, I recently completed the Instincts storyline and am now moving on to 
 Evolution. This is essentially two Farcry games on one.
  Both of them look fantastic and have a great cheesy action movie with a runaway budget feel about 
 them. The explosions look really special and the tropical scene has never looked as good as it 
 does here. The game does seem a s though it may be a little too easy. I first played it on the 
 easiest setting but after 5mins realised that if I played it this way I wouldn't get anything out 
 of it. I played the game on the Hunter (Normal) difficulty and found that there wasn't many parts 
 of the game I got particulary stuck on.
  I think its because most of the enemy's you encounter are pretty dumb but the number of enemy's 
 you can have on screen at some points is really impressive. Of course when there is that many angry 
 mercanaries after you its difficult to stand still and appreciate how many of them there are.
 
  Of course this isnt just your normal FPS, early in the game you are injected with some kind of 
 virus that turns you into one of the super-human monsters you face towards the end of the game. 
 (If you played it on the PC you'll get the general idea of what I mean) This presents you with 
 different abilities during the game and puts a really unique edge to the game.
  If you like action this is where you can find it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tdouglass
Rating: 6.1
Date: May 9, 2006 8:28 pm PT
Review:  Farcry: Instincts Preditor is a decent game. But that's really all it is. It has some fun moments, 
 with Halo Beamsword-esque moves that are constantly funny to pull off on unsuspecting foes. Duel 
 wielding is pulled off the same as Halo 2, grenades... the same... it seems to mimic Halo 2 as much 
 as t can really. It isn't really that challenging, just a standard FPS that reminds me a lot of 
 Halo 2. The graphics are very disapointing since it's just ripped from the Xbox, no impressive 
 High-Def environments or characters, so it doesn't even have that edge on Halo 2. This is truly 
 a game for people who liked Halo's gameplay but want a new story. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scotty0123
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 9, 2006 6:43 am PT
Review:  This game is absolutly genius, i think that having two games in one really gives good value for 
 money and the added graphics are just a bonus! You play as jack carver in both games (Instincts 
 and evolution) and on both stroys jack is forced by paying customers to go onto an island where 
 they believe no one is there, but they are wrong, he is forced to travel through the jungles by 
 foot and by veichle facing off merceneries and feral troops, these feral troops were once normal 
 people until they take an injection which changes them into something horrific, Jack gets the injection 
 and gets such powers as increased strengh, running real fast, can jump far and also can see in 
 the dark. The online play is awsome and has loads of cool options to choose from, this game was 
 way underated and i think should of at least got a 9.2. This is a must own for any shooter fanatic. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: psp_junky2005
Rating: 8.2
Date: May 8, 2006 4:04 pm PT
Review:  first off this game is underappreciated and has much potential. Has millions of online maps because 
 of map editor. BEST MAP EDITOR, i just had to put it out there.... im sorry 
  
  Gameplay: good but not great. controller layout is easy to use and effective during the game. 
 
  
  Graphics: Far from good and good from afar. Even the ****ing ferns are 2D. The terrain is unrealistic 
 (especially in map editor) and looks like an xbox games graphics on hd. 
  
  Sound: good music and ok sound effects. The intense emotional music adds a better feel for the 
 game. 
  
  Story: great, just recently beat evolution, its a roller coaster ride of a story with twists and 
 turns you wouldnt see coming. cant give you anymore info, youll have to buy the game to find out.
 
  
  Online: great. there is lag in the game with as many as 6 people. it basically just slows reation 
 time (if you were to pick up a weapon it would respond a second or two later) Edit maps are fun 
 online and predator mode has to be the funest.
  
  Overall: good shooter that is worth it for the map editor (if you like creating maps) and has great 
 online and offline. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: inoperativeRS
Rating: 8.6
Date: May 7, 2006 10:06 pm PT
Review:  If you've played a far cry game before, the single player isn't worth it. Sure, if you have only 
 played the pc version, you'll have 2 new campaigns to try out, but you'll quickly find out that 
 neither of them hold up against the original.
  
  The multiplayer, on the other hand, is what this game is all about. There's an almost unlimited 
 amount of player made maps on xbox live, and they're almost all surprisingly good. The bad side 
 of the muliplayer is that the host cannot chose to disable auto-aim, so if you want an even match 
 without "cheating", you'll have to kick the people that insist to play with it (auto-aim) on.
 
  
  Oh, and did I mention the water rocks? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheTruth2500XL
Rating: 8.3
Date: May 7, 2006 11:49 am PT
Review:  I've never played the original so it's all pretty new to me. This game is pretty fun, it's no Halo 
 but it good. Graphics are great, the chracter models aren't that great but enviroments are gorgeous 
 and water. Gameplay, it's solid and great control. Vehicles can be a little difficult to mauever 
 but are real fun to drive. Good wepon selecton. The use of traps are really fun, love seeing a 
 guy get whip with a branch full of spikes. Turning into a beast is awesome. All these elements 
 in the game are a blast. Online is real fun and there are alot game modes. One of the reasons that 
 this game is a buy. The map editor has alot of depth and alot of things you can do. This game is 
 great, it's not the best FPS I've played but it does have more feautres than others and is really 
 fun 
::::::

::::::
UserName: swizz-the-gamer
Rating: 5.3
Date: May 6, 2006 9:43 am PT
Review:  Well, to start of, the game look's great, It's a good concept. The graphics are nice, the opening 
 cut scene is nice. And then when you finally start playing thing's start to go wrong.
  
  First, your thrown onto this island. And find a headset, you then walk around the island, taking 
 some guy's orders. Now... Stealth, this is the worst thing about this game. The stealth is terrible, 
 plain awful. You just lay down, crawl your way to your target and then press B. Then it does some 
 crappy blood effect. 
  
  What I really liked about this game was the idea you were a hunter, stalking your pray. Most of 
 the time your laying on a hill with a bush in your face. And then you slowley creep down and stab 
 someone in the kneck, this got old fast. Thank god for uzi's.
  
  The game does have it's good points, the graphics are nice. There is a pretty good variety of weapons, 
 although you can only carry 3. 
  
  The multiplayer is pretty dumb, if you have the evolutions you win. Simple, you get the power up. 
 Everyone runs away, it's a pretty conventional multiplayer experience.
  
  So, don't get this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TwoStepsBehind7
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 3, 2006 1:09 pm PT
Review:  Great Shooter this Changes the way we play FarCry. When your Jack Carver you may also be the predator. 
 Anyway its a must have with the best online game, yes better than Halo 2. Like i said Great graphics 
 you can see up to 2km in the game. Way better than the xbox version. Also Introducing the best 
 technology in water ull ever see. Dont believe me check out the water rendering video. Well i hope 
 to see you online. Check it out ill always be happy to get on. Oh and one more thing the Map Creator 
 is the most in genus thing ull ever see. you will never play the same map twice. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: illzmasterofyou
Rating: 7
Date: May 3, 2006 5:32 am PT
Review:  Farcry for me is enjoyable unitl about 2hours in you think, hey i've seen this scenary before it's 
 just like the bit i was doing before. The shame jungle area with a bit more huts. When you finally 
 reach predator mode where you get your powers given to you, you are so sick of the game that you 
 want to stop, but you cant let the hours you've put in wasted on this game to not get any achievements 
 out of it.
  
  The developers asume you will want to play this game again again to get all the achievements big 
 mistake guys. We don't its not fun the first time. There is not enough varation on this game, and 
 the levels in the dark jungle are no fun whats so ever. Can I be bothered lattering the map with 
 traps to kill my enemies no chance takes far to much time. 
  
  Everyone has been saying its been saved by the mulitplayer but i've been on it on xbox live and 
 its appaling about as fun as it was on Call of Duty before they eventually fixed all the bugs. 
 There is tones of lag and not many different game modes. There is no way until its better you will 
 want to go on it. Secondly the achievement for the multiplayer are ridicolously hard 1000 kills 
 here 1000 headshots here 1000 places in 1st there no way you will seriously bother doing all of 
 them.
  
  In my opinion good laugh with mates multiplayer not online but its a fair game overall. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: warandpeace
Rating: 7.8
Date: May 1, 2006 3:13 pm PT
Review:  One of Instincts' most striking qualities is the sense of being The Thing In The Bushes. One side 
 of that is the game's range of attacking options - you can crawl around undetected, stalking up 
 to people and knifing them in the back; you can set traps like swinging branches and mines; you 
 can click the right-thumb-stick to zoom and pop people in the head at distance; you can toss grenades; 
 you can watch people moving about uncertainly and then pounce on them like a cat. Later on, you 
 can move like an alien and see like a predator - and stalking people actually fuels these abilities. 
 The other side of it is the bush itself. Instincts isn't like its PC cousin, which was very open 
 about how you could approach your very-clever enemies; here your vectors are fewer, and your enemies 
 dimmer. But the density of jungle built up at its edges is convincing. You can't see the lack of 
 a forest... for the trees! And not only are you the thing that's going to go bump, but you're not 
 just hiding in a convenient shadow, you're lurking on ground where it's unsafe for the mercs to 
 venture. They're the ones peering into the unknown and you're the threat.
  
  Sometimes, anyway. Instincts can be a very conventional and straightforward FPS game. Say you approach 
 an area with some buildings. There are enemies milling about, as you can see on your ever-present 
 radar. If you're in view, they react to you and a gunfight ensues. You toss grenades and unload 
 your machineguns into them, or sit back and try and pick them off with a silenced pistols or a 
 sniper rifle.
  
  Instincts is a game of seeming novelties surprisingly well bound together. Cars, boats, guns, stealth, 
 traps, super-strength, scent-vision... its all well done, in a beautiful world that showcases above-average 
 graphics.
  While it may not play as strategically or controllably as something like Halo, or as evocatively 
 and inventively as something like Half-Life 2, it's still atmospheric, involving, and empowering. 
 There's plenty you could criticise, but that's not your first instinct. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: daveg1
Rating: 6.7
Date: May 1, 2006 9:14 am PT
Review:  me like most people were dazzled when we saw the first video's of farcry for the 360, namely the 
 water effects and draw distances, but for me once the game is started up, that is where the dazzling 
 ends! the game start's out in the same old way as the pc game, and for me the game set out as it 
 started, never doing anything great to fit in with what 360 has shown so far,, the game suffer's 
 from glitches and another really anoying thing is the distance that you can shoot enemy's just 
 isnt very realistic or is good for gameplay either, if you havent played farcry at all then by all 
 means take a look, but from the stand point of someone who was expecting more than a slightly graphical 
 update (water only) give it a rent!!
  
  the only good thing for this game is the on-line map maker which is pretty good if your good at 
 making maps!
  
  closing statement: flashy water isnt enough to warrant paying hard earned for this game! rent it!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CrocStock
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 1, 2006 1:55 am PT
Review:  In The main story youre Jack Carver and youre on an island full of soldiers and all youve got to 
 do is get off of it whilst spilling some blood. The Main story is good and what i like about it 
 is there is some variety in what you do. The combat controls are normal with the added Tree Trap 
 which basically pulls a spiky vine onto a tree which when run into, slings back for a cool, funny 
 death.
  
  The multiplayer mode is good on Xbox Live and split screen is good if you dont have Xbox Live but 
 there is 1 and only 1 thing the game is quite good for and that is the Map Editor. There is a lot 
 of variety to the map editor and a lot of templates to use including island bamboo shacks, observatory 
 towers, ATV's, and depleted houses.
  
  The bad points are that the graphics arent up to spec with the Xbox 360, the story is relatively 
 quick and the map editor in certain areas should of had more variety still.
  
  If you like the idea of letting your creativity go wild and sharing it online whilst serving up 
 your enemies a quick, sneaky and bloody death then this is the game for you, but if you like the 
 Far Cry series and want to play the "updated" version then this still maybe the ticket. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: orionreplay
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 30, 2006 8:58 am PT
Review:  I began playing Far Cry Instincts Predator for the 360 remembering what an amazing title Far Cry 
 was for the PC when it first came out. I distinctly remembered what a thrill it was then to have 
 the AI actively "hunting" me, the player. I had never experienced that in a first person shooter.
 
  
  FCIP starts out beautifully in HDTV. The graphics are top notch on a big screen. Once the eyecandy 
 thrill faded away for me, I began to notice little things that bugged me, like getting stuck on 
 a simple leaf of a bush/tree I am attempting to hide behind. Suddenly the whole beauty of the game 
 abruptly disappears as I am left floundering on a leaf, a small rock, or a branch. The "realism" 
 being portrayed in the game leaves me very quickly as I can't simply step over a small rock or 
 push through a leafy bush.
  
  The enemy AI also left me in tears at times when I'd snipe one individual and his buddy standing 
 next to him continues to smoke his cigarette or simply pace around. Your co-worker/friend just 
 fell to the ground dead... and you miss this fact?
  
  For the 360, this is probably the best FPS to date. I just wish there were a few details that were 
 worked out before we spent $60 on the title. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: craigjeffery82
Rating: 8.9
Date: Apr 30, 2006 3:46 am PT
Review:  Ever since playin Far Cry on the PC i've been hooked. The stunning visuals and the indeph story 
 aswell as a heafty arsenal all add up to be one of the greatest FSP's ever. 
  And the Xbox 360 version doesn't dissapoint. Ok the graphics are not really testing the 360's power 
 but thats the only fall back.
  The levels are still detailed to the horizon and if you get up high enough, you'll be able to see 
 for miles. 
  Giving Jack his trible powers is a good feature because you'll have the ability to punch enemies 
 half way across the screen. You can also see the enemies body heat through the dense jungle and 
 follow there smell. 
  The Story mode is splint in two. The predator story is similar to the original game and can be 
 very challenging in places. There are no trijans in this version, but instaed you have tribal warriors 
 with similar attributes.
  The second part of the story is called Evolution. in this game you have to help a girl called Kade. 
 She drags you off to the islands to help her diliver some weapons to pirates. Things go wrong as 
 you can guess. So you end up hunting down a group of warriors with similar powers to youself.
 
  The game's multiplayer is the bee's knee's. Remember Goldeneye on the N64? This is much better. 
 There are several different game modes which will keep you occupied for hours.
  Fifty pounds is still alot of money for a game but Far Cry Instincts Predator is worth shelling 
 out for. Two campaignes to keep you going in solo player and a multiplayer side to things which 
 will last for years. To top it all off you can create your own maps to use with friend on your 
 console or on Xbox Live. Fantastic. Buy this game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ghog69
Rating: 8.4
Date: Apr 29, 2006 7:15 am PT
Review:  OK single player, great multiplayer. If you don't have Live, a rent will suffice. 
  
  Map editor will keep the game alive; easy to use and pretty powerful. The creators have said they 
 cannot add to the number of templates which is a negative. 
  
  Online gaming is fun although lag can sometimes be a major problem, especially with 8 or more players. 
 
  
  Well-balanced weapons and vehicles for the variety of locations. The sheer number of weapons including 
 fixed and vehicle-mounted is excellent. 
  
  Small, but very friendly online community, some of which have created some really unique maps. 
 Some of these maps rival any the developers have created. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spicylemon89
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 26, 2006 4:42 pm PT
Review:  I was very disappointed with this game. To keep it short and simple:
  
  Single Player = repetitive and gets boring. The begining was new and refreshing with an interesting 
 character Jack Carver and the jungle. But it got old quick and running through enemies got more 
 annoying than fun.
  
  Multiplayer = laggy and so many player maps makes it annoying to constantly download other maps. 
 It was a real chore for me to change weapons and exit vehicles.
  
  I sold the game after less than a month and about 7-10 hours of playing. I can't really recommend 
 this game but there are people that do/will enjoy this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: E2ESQUARE
Rating: 8.3
Date: Apr 25, 2006 5:51 pm PT
Review:  Far Cry Instincts Predator is Far Crys 3rd bid to Xbox franchise and its first to the 360. Far 
 Cry is good, but sadly it could have been better.
  
  Single Player - Exactly the same as 2005's Far Cry Instincts for the xbox with more beautiful water 
 and in HD. The only real difference is that it has another side story that adds about 5 hours to 
 the already short game so you end up with a 15 hour game instead of a 10-12 hour game. Basically 
 you shoot mercs with guns and sneak up for stealth kills and trap kills. Once you become a predator, 
 you can tear them up with devastating swpie attacks, sweet!
  
  Multiplayer - Unless you get a really stupid map, FCIP has one of the best online and offline multiplayer 
 experiences on the xbox 360. It has 16 player online and system link and 4 player spiltscreen. 
 It has the regual CTF, Deathmatch and Team Deathmatch modes (with different names of course) as 
 well as one mode that stands out above the rest: Predator. Alot like Juggernaut from the Halo, 
 the predator is the most powerful with the best gun, increased speed, higher jumps and feral powers. 
 He spawns and the mercs dont. His job is to kill every single mercenary, the mercenaries need to 
 activate a machine to kill him. Online and off, its the best and most original mode in Far Cry 
 and the only one that really takes advantage of its feral powers from the campaign. The game also 
 has a mapmaker that is easy to use and can create some really spectacular and useful maps. You 
 can publish them on XBL and even download other maps to your Hard Drive and use them. Overall, 
 the FCIP multiplayer is a stacked, fully figured game that you wont be ready to quit for a while.
 
  
  There are 2 major glitches that hinder the gameplay: Stupid enemy AI (self explanatory) and the 
 facthat bullets only hit enemies in a specific range which is almost impossible to determine so 
 often you will unload a clip into an enemy and the shots will disappear before they hit their mark. 
 Its annoying and obvious, but it doesnt break the game.
  Graphically, this is an HD xbox game with HD xbox models and awesome water effects, but its not 
 truly next gen 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JL2K6
Rating: 9.8
Date: Apr 25, 2006 12:51 pm PT
Review:  The Good: Great gameplay, followed up with graphics to support it; Fun shooting action makes you 
 wanna kill mercs in Hawaii; Swimming is 
  kick@$$; Controls are easy; Sounds great; Good story as well as visuals that give it a dark feeling; 
 When you slash a merc, he screams!
  
  The Bad: If you look really close, the leaves/trees look sorta crappy.
  
  
  
  There is 
 almost nothing to say. The water looks so real I feel like I'm at the beach. The gameplay is spotless 
 shooting action, with a twist. The feral abilities you can use are utterly satisfying: A feeling 
 Halo could never give me. You can't ever claw a guy to death in Halo. As said by Adam Sessler on 
 XPlay, the mercs scream like girl scouts. Entirely true. Far Cry IP is one of the best games Xbox 
 360 has, even if you played the Xbox version. The PC version is good, but doesn't stack up to this 
 one. If you have a love for FPS games than this one is the one to pick. All the aspects of this 
 game make it a very worthwhile choice for the consumer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Funny_bunch71
Rating: 4.5
Date: Apr 25, 2006 11:18 am PT
Review:  I recently rented the game and played it completely though the water looks extreamly impressive 
 the gameplay and graphics of the surrounding world dont quiet meet up to the standards of recent 
 releases. I found the controls extreamly uncomfortable to play with and the gameplay to just become 
 more irritating and boring then it being fun the online looked very choppy and watching other players 
 move around reminded me of how games looked while playing on the origional playstation with a 2 
 player game the thing that bothered me the most was the Ai on which would just stand facing you 
 firing there was no taking cover or anything to show the next generation technology that is sopose 
 to be powering the game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: venator117
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 24, 2006 10:22 pm PT
Review:  This game is great, But a couple things get me made like how u have ot beat the first game to play 
 the new one now that is gay as hell. But muiltiplayer is so much fun i can play predtor all day. 
 Now let me talk abou the single player alittle more the grapics are amazing expely the water. there 
 are so many guns to pick from. there are so many guys to kill to thats what is so mych fun about 
 it. This game is not that bloody though they could of made it more bloody. There are so many veilcles 
 to pick from. And they have a better map editer. To top things of this game desreves a 10 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: timmy343
Rating: 8.2
Date: Apr 24, 2006 3:28 pm PT
Review:  After playing this game a while I noticed that the graffics arnt as supped up as they should have 
 been, and that they make you start with the original story instead of the new one. I already beat 
 that one, give me the choice to play the new. Gameplay is pretty much the same as the first one, 
 no big changes. The one live game i played was really fun, but there were only 6 people. Doesnt 
 seem like theirs enough people online ranked matches for this to be as fun as it should be. Map 
 editor amps up the fun, and overall the game isnt too bad. but with the time ubisoft got, should 
 have made this game up to par with the other 360 titles. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: txbagz4fun
Rating: 8.2
Date: Apr 24, 2006 2:12 pm PT
Review:  I was a big fan for far cry on the pc and amazed by the xbox version a year ago. The release of 
 pedator for the 360 brings many new elements and good ideas to the table, but they don't run as 
 smooth as you would of hoped. Single player is fun and will last a little while in your 360, but 
 the gameplay mechanics are to rough and move slow. The instincts addition is a good feature, but 
 i buy games to play new things not the old. Xbox live is fun a times, but results in many lags 
 and glitchs to often. At the end far cry predator for the 360 isn't as great as its prodescors. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KungPow1985
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 23, 2006 7:31 am PT
Review:  If you have played FCI for te xbox, then i dont suggest getting this game. The only reason i bought 
 it was because i didnt have Xbox Live on my XBOX.
  The multiplayer is very innovative and in terms of lag, ive only seen it in map editor when you 
 try to put an item near a big group of other items. The single player is good if you havent played 
 the first one. I would just say to get evolution for XBOX. I am a FC fan but Ubi needs to stick 
 to the Tom Clancy franchise. Not sayin this to be a troll or anything and i love FC but I think 
 they are better off that way.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DryvBy27
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 22, 2006 6:58 pm PT
Review:  Good Idea:
  Adding a map editor is just smart.
  Great looking wave effects.
  Proximity mines!
  
  Bad Idea:
  Whoever designed the aiming system needs to be decapitated 
 for not using his head in the first place.
  Single player mode feels very generic.
  Graphics are like the Xbox version.
  
  Overall:
  If you want a cool single player shooter, 
 this one is not one of them. If you want a fun multiplayer game with a ton of multiplayer value, 
 this game is cool that way. But single player is just bunk.
  
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------
  
  Far Cry for the 
 computer is a pure, gorgeous masterpiece. A work of gaming art with a great load of features and 
 a ton of visuals to hide around in. It was also one of the first games to feature a true sniper 
 deathmatch meaning you didn't have an icon waving above your head to give away your position. If 
 you're dead, you have no idea where it came from. So, back to what Instincts did totally wrong.
 
  
  The graphics are good and a bit of an improvment over the original Xbox version, but not by too 
 much. It's mainly the texturing is just kinda plain and only a tad bit better. The biggest things 
 with the graphics are the character skins. They look really crap at times. The guns were modeled 
 well and the lands are huge but really, the textures could have been redone with less compression. 
 I honestly think the multiplayer game looks better than the single player, besides the huge mistake 
 of having characters "walk" up ladders instead of climb them.
  
  I like the sound system a lot but for the love of God, does the main character have a potty mouth. 
 It's like Eminem did the voice scripting. Even though I didn't like hearing that much language, 
 it has really well-done voice acting. Maybe it's just the whole Hollywood lifestyle these days 
 that you can't get a good mature game without it being over the top in language. The gun sounds 
 rock and the explosions sound good. 
  
  Now to the worst part of the game is the controls. They feel unpolished and this is the first FPS 
 game I've played where the controls are so terrible, it makes the game less fun. There's a mission 
 where you have to do sniping to defend a retarded NPC and it's seriously only hard because the 
 aiming is way to fast and, well, just crap.
  
  Multiplayer is a blast though. The map editor is easy to use and basically anytime you play on 
 Live, you get a new map. It keeps you coming back for more. It has some of the best on any system 
 actually, but Far Cry has always been one to bright the greatness into multiplayer. Snipers are 
 going to be everywhere so keep ya head down.
  
  The multiplayer: It's like "dance party" on Perfect Dark. That's how fun it is. Actually, multiplayer 
 is all that saves it.
  
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------
  
  Violence:
  There's 
 a good amount of blood but no real gore.
  
  Sexuality:
  None that I'm aware of.
  
  Language:
  More language than Pulp Fiction meets Casino. And no voice volume control to turn 
 it off.
  
  Substance Use:
  Steroids for that extra boost. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Arbiter4444
Rating: 8.1
Date: Apr 22, 2006 1:04 pm PT
Review:  Jack is back in an all new tropical adventure, well mostly new. Far Cry Inctincts: Predator offers 
 a brand new campaign, along with an "upgraded" version of the award-winning Far Cry Instcincts.
 
  
  The Gameplay
  Is quite addictive, I had lots of fun playing the singleplayer campaigns; but painfully the long 
 break inbetween checkpoints can get very frustrating. (and beleive me... you WILL get frustrated!) The 
 gameplay itself is also somewhat hard to get used to. But, I still found myself always saying..."Dang 
 this game is so fun!". The Online play can be a blast, but the game suffers from atrocious lag at 
 times, which makes the game rather unplayable. The inproved Map Editor on the other hand is awesome, you'll 
 find yourself creating, and fine tuning your maps for hours.
  
  The Graphics
  Are not that great, considering it's supposed to be a next-gen title, while some enviroments and 
 elements look good, others look like crap, and not next-gen at all, this was a dissapointment for 
 me. The sand does look nice though, and the water looks amazing.
  
  The Sound
  There are some extremely nice jungle and island sound effects in this game, it really makes you 
 feel as if your on the island. Gun, explosion and vehicle effects are nicley done to.
  
  The Value
  This game does offer you not only the new evolution campaign, but it also offers an 
 improved Far Cry Insticnts to boot OMG! It is pretty stupid that you have to beat the Instincts 
 story before you play the new Evolution story, but that's why we have cheat codes!
  
  Overall, there's an amazing game somewhere hidden in Far Cry, but it just never got the chance to 
 get out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jazmacfaz99
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 22, 2006 12:33 pm PT
Review:  Far cry instincts predator is fun cool edgy funny and the best fps out for the 360. Firstly i am 
 going to tell you i havent played the xbox 1 version so i cant really tell you if its much better. 
 
  
  GRAPHICS 
  The breathtakingly realistic water makes up for the lush but not so extravagant jungle enviroments 
 you find yourself in. The guns and npcs looks fairly average but when it comes to lighting water 
 and.... hands (thats right jack carver looks photo realistic when tearing apart a pirate!) this 
 game is visually astounding. 
  
  GAMEPLAY 
  This game plays like a dream. The perfect mix of firepower melee halo style health regeneration 
 and a subtle hint of auto aim needlesly to say make a damn good game. The melee combat is especially 
 brutal when throwing mercaneries off cliffs and into trees or stabbing them in the back! 
  
  AUDIO 
  Far cry is a heavily sound oriented game. The steady beat of jungle tunes steadily 
 increasing in tenacity indicating a battle the smooth rustle of the leaves the harmonic peirce 
 of the gunfire and even the brutal roar of ripping someone apart all come together to make great 
 audio work. 
  
  If it werent for dodgy scenery and overly cartoony blood this game would be in everyones collection. 
 Still a must buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lonestarebel32
Rating: 6
Date: Apr 22, 2006 9:53 am PT
Review:  Alright il just say it how it is, i have gameznflix and rented expecting an awesome game, (mabe 
 i got to caught up in all of the hype of it) , but im sure glad i didnt dish out 60 bucks for it.
 
  
  The Good
  Map Editor, WOW. Its that damn fun. For the week I rented this game I was on the map editor 50% 
 of the time. You can make gorgeous beach enviorments, and jungles and stuff. It was just fun to 
 screw around with that. Also the water effects and the predator mode were both positve features 
 in this game.
  
  The Bad
  played single player and thought hey this is pretty fun, i mean the water looked amazing and the 
 enviorments looked decent, but as far as the single player goes, when i got to the third level 
 i just felt like it was so boring that it was almost work, but the predator mode does make up for 
 it so i say there is some fun to be had here
  
  The Ugly
  Multiplayer. You have no idea how disapointed i was about the multiplayer. I almost dished out 
 the full 60 bucks on this game just because i wanted a fun little online first person shooter. 
 Wow it was not that. There is very litte fun to be had here. First the lag is a HUGE issue. Every 
 one i talked to said every game had lag issue's except dedicated servers. Like you will be shooting 
 at a guy and he will just disapeer and pop up 3 feet away. Also the Amount of damage resistance 
 in this game is rediculus. When playing Chaos or Team Chaos (Deathmatch or Team Deathmath) you 
 start out with one smg and a pistol. Single wielding the pistol and killing some is HARD. like 
 im talking about a clip and a half- two clips of ammohard if ur going for body shots. Head shots 
 with the lag are hard as !@#$.
  
  Well, theres my review, im not a negative review writer usually but this game just got to me. A 
 good Patch/Update can fix the multiplayer if they do it (just like they did with Call of Duty) 
 so don't buy this game for now, rent it, or probbly just hold on to your money and keep watch for 
 an update to come out and people thought on it.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: D1rty_Dawg
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 22, 2006 3:20 am PT
Review:  This was one of the biggest disappointments I have had with a game since getting my 360. I was 
 a huge fan of the PC version of Far Cry and had hoped for big things with this game but for me 
 anyway, it fell far short of the mark.
  
  Now don't get me wrong, it is a pretty solid FPS that looks nice (the water effects always impress 
 me in these games) , the controls are easy to use and it sounds OK. But compare this to say BF2 
 or GRAW and it doesn't even come close.
  
  There are some saving graces though, the map editor is fantastic and adds a whole new depth to 
 the game and I like how you can share your maps with other players over Live and all play, that 
 is very cool.
  
  And then there is the Live play of course, all of the usual game modes are here and they all seem 
 to play quite well. The maps are well designed and the action is fast and furious. I experienced 
 no lag while playing and connected to the game sessions without any of the problems shared by other 
 games like CoD2 etc.
  
  So in closing, this game is OK but don't expect anything revolutionary, this has all been done 
 before, many times! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamefreakwill
Rating: 8.4
Date: Sep 6, 2006 4:27 pm PT
Review:  This game is really fun. I love playing it and hunting down maniacs who are after me.
  
  The graphics are pretty good. Fighting guys can be really fun and tricky. The graphics are up to 
 X360 standards and are good when dealing with environments.
  
  The voice acting is pretty clear. ALthough at somepoints its too quiet. Like when Jack mutters.
 
  
  I think the campaign is really interesting and it sometimes keeps you going. Most FPS fans will 
 come to like this game. Plus other fans of the Farcry series.
  
  This game is a good buy and many fans will probably think it was worth the wait.
  
  An 8.5 
 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bizzarro_strife
Rating: 6
Date: Apr 21, 2006 2:47 pm PT
Review:  IT's Got an alright story with an alright engine but the controls are extreemly bad. THey're sometimes 
 unreponsive, and overall not mapped very well on the controller as it is. It has absolutely AMAZING 
 graphics (if looks could kill - or in this case make up for gameplay) , If Ovbilivion was a FPS 
 (that sucked) it would be farcry predator. OVerall I say it's something you rent and see if you 
 like it. Some people really like it but I don't and think it to be a waste of $60. So the bottom 
 line: Rent or wait for a price drop. Play farcry insincts on your 360 instead. IT's got good graphics 
 AND gameplay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: reaper2491
Rating: 3.4
Date: Apr 21, 2006 12:50 am PT
Review:  Over the years i have played so many First Person Shooters some very good and some very bad and 
 others that we best not talk about. But the thing that gets me the most about FPS games is the 
 FPS glitches E. g. What you do on your screen is something totally different to what the character 
 model is doing. Things like loading weapons, selecting weapons, and the hand movements of your 
 player. It really makes me angry to see these same glitches Fumble on to the X BOX 360, thats 
 right the next Gen Consol that was supposed to change the way we look a games is still making last 
 Gen mistakes. I dont know how the developers of the games can make such foolish mistakes surly 
 they must know how poor it looks. 
  
  And this game, this "far cry" is no exception not only dose the game look as if it should be on 
 the PS2 (no offence) But it still makes the same mistakes as Time splitters. (You know that game 
 that was released For the PS2 about 4 years ago) Call me demanding if you want but i think that 
 4 years is more than enough time to work out some foolish glitches.
  
  But if you dont care about detail and just want the basic shooter WITH THE BEST DAM MAPMAKER EVER! 
 Then you may like this.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: tomdelonge0686
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 20, 2006 8:15 am PT
Review:  no feeling? like the pc far cry the aimin was better, guns were better, enemies were better, plot 
 was alittle better.. the xbox one is good but im getting tired of only having a pistol and a smg 
 or a sniper rifle. plus the aiming is really horrible, im a not fps guy on a console but im a big 
 fan of the series and this was reeally sad : ( everything was good besides the long boring story 
 and guns and enemies.. if u ppl havent played the pc version of far cry it rapes this one.. yes 
 this one has better graphics with water and trees and grass. but it draws in more with control and 
 surroundings, basically my biggest complaint is the freaking aiming system u aim alittle it doesnt 
 go to far u wanna aim quick it goes across the screen that was terrible, overall it was a decent 
 game it just really confuses me how crytex sdtill made the same mistakes on the 360 like they did 
 on the pc. my last bone to pick with the game is ok its kinda hard to aim but i can understand 
 it but this game is freaking hard, they know where u r everytime like i ll be behind bushes and 
 theyll be shooting me through and buildings or ull say huts 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mada_Nniuq
Rating: 8.7
Date: Apr 20, 2006 7:18 am PT
Review:  I know you've read reviews that said "All the graphics r teh badness except for the water", "It's 
 so hard I couldn't even beat it on Rookie" and "The multiplayer is laggy." Well, trust me, anyone 
 who writes stuff like that must be playing a different game.
  
  Anybody who has the original Far Cry and still has their old xbox might not want to pick this up. 
 You either have to beat the original story or cheat to unlock the all-new, modern Evolution story. 
 Well, I didn't have my old xbox, and its not compatible with 360, so of course I picked FCIP up. 
 For those who played the original, it's much like an improved version, I had more fun with it but 
 it might be boring if you played through the first one.
  
  For those who haven't played the original xbox version, pick this up. In a sense, it's a lot like 
 Condemned or Escape from Butcher's Bay because of the compelling FPS plot and fun battles. It also, 
 like the 2 games, has amazing graphics. But, graphics don't make a game, but the screenshots don't 
 show all of what I'm talking about either. To sum up the graphics, you'll see the best hands (remember, 
 its a FPS) , water, and realistic graphics you've ever seen. 
  
  The fighting is also fun. You always have several options. Will you go Sam Fisher and lay a few 
 traps or sneak up behind the enemy and backstab them? Will you use your special powers to make 
 the enemy go flying away with your powerful arm? Or will you just run in and blast everything with 
 an SMG? They are all effective tactics, but if you are patient you'll find yourself needing a lot 
 less health packs. 
  
  The multiplayer is no Halo. It can be compared to TS: Future Perfect on xbox. You can share and 
 compete on the maps you made in Mapmaker, but be ready for a 45 second download. The only problem 
 with multiplayer is that not many people play online. It never lags unless you're using dial-up.
 
  
  So, overrall, Far Cry Instincts Predator is a great buy and will keep you entertained for a good 
 while. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: digitalreaction
Rating: 3.5
Date: Apr 20, 2006 4:52 am PT
Review:  I was pretty fired up about this game but frankly the controls are so bad I am barely enjoying 
 playing through it for the sake of doing so.
  
  To be specific, the aiming is just impossible to get any real accuracy. I'm talking every weapon, 
 every turret and especially the vehicles. It's like you move the stick and then the crosshairs 
 jump in whatever direction you point with no hope for precision aiming on any level.
  
  I even resorted to aim assist which is against my grain as an avid gamer and tried to tweak the 
 sensitivity but it just ain't happening...
  
  I have no idea how this hasn't been mentioned in a big way in most reviews of this game but it 
 was really a deal breaker for me... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tonytheprawn
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 18, 2006 11:54 am PT
Review:  Evolution- The greatest part of Predator the next chapter of the game with new vehicles and new 
 wepons and new objects to hide behind, destroy, push and crawl under. All in all after playing 
 both the Xbox version and Xbox 360version so I can safely say they are both outstanding games that 
 have showen they are worth the hard price of $59.00 ie 45 quid english price by the way if you 
 were wondering my xbox live gamer tag is not tony the prawn.
  When I first played Evolution I was ashamed that the graphics were not as good as the modded Instincts 
 but the gameplay is miles better.
  
  Insticts- Great game would recomend to any one especialy people into stelth / halo type games either 
 way this game kicks ass and it definetly beats the first farcry game I gave this Game 9.5 because 
 of the speed of gameplay and the kick ass guns so all you sados still playing halo 2 and batlefront 
 two (not battlefield you idiot) the get your teeth into this. 
  
  Level Editor- Amazing and great how you can still put anything in to anything great new objects 
 and seanery so you can basicly create your own far cry game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jakked
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 18, 2006 6:40 am PT
Review:  I liked the pc version but not so much on the home systems. The graphics aren't much bettter then 
 the xbox version but it does share the same crappy control. Even after ajusting the sensitivity 
 its still far to touchy in my opinion. good luck trying to take enemies out with a headshot more 
 frustrating then fun. mutiplayer is also hit or miss. cool in theory but because of the control 
 issues and also i experienced to much lag. The reason i prefer the pc version is simply the control 
 . i love playing fps shooters on consoles if get they control right like call of duty or even battlefield 
 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: boxo
Rating: 2
Date: Apr 17, 2006 3:47 pm PT
Review:  Far cry insticts predator Yes the name sounds pretty cool but when It comes to the actual game.... yea 
 its pretty bad first of all I would like to say that this is easily the hardest videogame I have 
 ever played even on rookie you'll be killed countless times by advisarys that have perfect aiming 
 so good that they can shoot through walls! There are some things to spice it up and by that I mean 
 being bored in a vehicle sometimes when in a vehicle you miss a jump and need to reset the entire 
 checkpoint challenging is good but it shouldn't be fustrating the online play is very laggy so 
 have fun dying alot due to serious lag issues I really wanted to like this game after playing it 
 I traded it in for Fable the lost chapters and advent rising this game dosen't deserve anyones's 
 time just leave it on the shelf to rot like it should 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DoTheDew2207
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 15, 2006 8:08 pm PT
Review:  Far Cry Instincts Predator offer alot of gameplay and features for its price. With 2 stories, an 
 improved map editor, and online gameplay, FarCry Insticts Predator is definatley worth at least 
 a rent if not a buy.
  
  Sure, its the same great gameplay as the original, but personally, I think Fist Person Shooters 
 have had higher expectations since the original was realeased on the PC. I did have alot of fun 
 while playing, but it felt like something was missing. I did notice plenty of AI glitches, which 
 smothered the realism and adreniline from the game.
  
  Another downside from the game is the graphics. There was no big improvements, except from the 
 brand new water effects.
  
  Sure FarCry Insticts is a great game, but X360 games need to be more than just "High DEF upgrades" 
 with improved graphics. Games like Riddick for the Xbox have better looking graphics then Far Cry. 
 And if you ask me, Riddick was more of a "next gen exerience" then many games out for the 360 now.
 
  
  Dont get me wrong, FarCry Insticts Predator is a great game, and worth checking out. But if your 
 like me, I would save your money for a more nex gen experience, rathher than a high def ugrade 
 of a game thats over 3 years old. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pyroman343
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 15, 2006 12:17 pm PT
Review:  a awsome shooter with a fantstic map editor + one great multiplayer. All i have to say is great 
 job ubi on this game! the only downfal is you need to be able to have a guest on xbox live. People 
 argue thta this game is worthless but in my eyes A+. You can sit for hours building a map then publishing 
 it on xbox live like
  I keep saying great solid shooter 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
  a awsome shooter with a fantstic map editor + 
 one great multiplayer. All i have to say is great job ubi on this game! the only downfal is you 
 need to be able to have a guest on xbox live. People argue thta this game is worthless but in my 
 eyes A+. You can sit for hours building a map then publishing it on xbox live like
  I keep saying great solid shooter 
::::::

::::::
UserName: revolution12
Rating: 8.6
Date: Apr 14, 2006 8:38 pm PT
Review:  One of the greatest shooters of all time on the xbox is now on the 360. Theres a really great value 
 here with to games in one and a full out multiplayer mode. The only real bad part about the game 
 is that the graphics are good, but not the best and could have been better. The multiplayer mode 
 is just OK but it does have a map editor so if you enjoy the multiplayer you be in heaven. The 
 game is generally the same with the same story. The evolution campaign is still great but problaby 
 not as good as the instinct story. Overall this game is great with tons of features. If you own 
 instincts you should just pick up evolution if youre wanting more far cry action, but for the rest 
 of us you should definitely pick this up 
::::::

::::::
UserName: briandap
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 14, 2006 10:53 am PT
Review:  I like the game, it's entertaining, but is it me or is this game really hard? I am playing on Hunter, 
 the medium setting, and this game is just tough. I don't remember the PC version being this hard. 
 
  
  I'm not really talking about the aiming, but the fact that the enemy generally doesn't miss and 
 I die quickly. Ah well, overall it's a good game. Mpayer is great too!
  
  And the sound isn't too good, not loud enough either. Not the overall sound, but sound effects 
 like guns and explosions. I just think that being their third release of the franchise, it would 
 have some improvements. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Solidesnake2004
Rating: 4.2
Date: Apr 14, 2006 10:31 am PT
Review:  Its dissapointing to know how a franchise can be shot down by XBox players themselves. reading 
 the full review of this game seems to tell me that the game team that created this hasn't put enough 
 effort for the 360 console, and it seems like that the original for Xbox seems to be in a better 
 shape than this version.... heck they shouldn't even call it Far Cry Instincts : Preadator... they 
 minus well call it Far Cry Instincts: Continuation of Far Cry instincts. The game has Graphics 
 that are not up to 360 standards.... so that means... put this into an XBox and get the same framerate 
 as the original? , Campain mode... hmm what to say about that.... its not as good as the original... i 
 didn't say it.... the gamespot guys said it. Enemy AI seems to be a bit better than the original... dodging 
 bullets... and ducking cover... and yet they still want to charge and get you in close combat.... if 
 an enemy has a gun arn't they supposed to shoot anyway? Multiplayer Maps.... seems like a joke.... it 
 has a number of original maps...... but then.... a few new ones.... WHATS WITH THAT? they are building 
 a game onto a new console with new CDs with about 30 gigs of space to work with. it seems that 
 this will tell a story along the way of how a deveoper that didn't seem to care how much a game 
 is worth until a consumer is on their way to purchase it, play it, and then .... Rank it!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thechedude
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 12, 2006 5:46 pm PT
Review:  YOU are Jack Carver a retired hitman (of some sort I believe) . You are Stuck on a island called 
 Jacutan. Your boat - ''Lady Karma'' is blown up by Mercanaries hired by a dangerous man. You are 
 forced to get to the bottom of this whole entire island.
  
  The gameplay in this game is simply awesome such as when you are forced to get injected with some 
 type of syrum and become a Animal- Human Hybrid. The sheer adrenaline that flushes through your 
 mind as you are about to execute a Feral Punch Or a Backstab. 
  
  This game is simply amazing for i can explain no more. find out yourself!
  
  thx, 
  for reading 
 this for no aparent reason, and thinking about what i care about. 
  
  
  ThetoChetoDUDE 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jusbish
Rating: 8.4
Date: Apr 12, 2006 10:41 am PT
Review:  Far Cry Instincts Predator is a great game. True, this is pretty much the same game as the Xbox 
 version, but the Xbox version was a great game, and I didn't mind re-adding it to my collection. 
 True, you do have to play through Insticts before you get to unlock Predator. However, there are 
 codes to unlock Predator without having to play through Instincts. Instincts looks so good on 360 
 though, it's totally worth playing through it again. Basically you need to know that Instincts 
 is still Instincts, don't go thinking you're getting an entirely new game going in. Knowing that 
 though you'll still get a great game regardless, especially if you haven't played through any of 
 it's various counterparts. My score 8.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: T-tronicum
Rating: 3
Date: Apr 12, 2006 6:06 am PT
Review:  Yeah, thats a shame for the Creator.
  I think we all know FAR CRY from the PC and XBOX!
  The PC Version is one of the Best Games i ever played.
  The XBOX Version was one of the best 
 XBOX Games 2005!!!
  The XBOX 360 Version: THE WORST!!!
  I dont know why? They spend so much Time in this Game and then this Result!!!
  HORRIBLE!!!
  
 Incredible Bad Conversion!!
  To Control Jack Carver is very Difficult, i mean to appoint an Enemy.
  The Intelligence of the 
 Enemys is so bad, and when you kill one, he fells down like a Doll!
  The new Evolution Story is not worth to talk about. Its shorter and not better then the Instincts 
 Story!!!
  The Graphics are only Mediocre!! The Best thing in this Game is the Water, but thats it, nothing else 
 to say about this bad Version!
  Thanxx to the Creators that we spend our Money in this CRAP, to make more bad Games like this!!!!
 
  Better spend it in GOOD Games like G. R. A. W or OBLIVION, because there you become much Game for 
 your Money!!!
  
  Sorry for the Grammar, im not English, but hope you understand all well!!
  
  Thanxx
  T-troniC Spain
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: shady555
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 11, 2006 4:07 pm PT
Review:  Farcry Instincts Predator continues where Farcry Evolution left off. It still has it's luscious 
 Jungle enviroments, with great 1st person fun. If you've never played the original, this game is 
 definetly worth the $60 it sells for, since you get 2 games in one. The gameplay is fun and addicting, 
 although the new campaign is fairly short. You will get through it quick, but then you have it's 
 multiplayer mode, where you can even create your own maps and compete against people around the 
 world in a enviroment you created. The graphics are good, though not up to the 360's peak. An hdtv 
 will definetly help. The thudding music will make you sense danger and then become relaxed again 
 throughout the game. All in all, FCIP is a worthy buy if your a fan of the original, or if you 
 like 1st person shooters, and you wanted to check it out. You'll have plenty of animal tendencies 
 after a day of playing this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ghsacidman
Rating: 6.6
Date: Apr 12, 2006 3:13 pm PT
Review:  Not only is it possible for a game on a next gen system to look worse then it's last gen counter 
 part, it's also possible to make you buy it for $60. The story is great, now if only the controls 
 were good enough you could actually shoot someone.
  
  Pros: Jack is still an interesting charector and is ammusingly colorful as you'd come to expect. 
 The dramatic storytelling is in effect for both games, and is really the only reason I had for 
 playing it as long as I did. The sound is very good, the background sound effects make the jungle 
 more atmospheric. Back stabbing and branch traps are still very fun, and sometimes the only way 
 to get clean kills. The setting is still very full of color, even though the graphics are mad choppy.
 
  
  Cons: Almost everything.... From how crappy the graphics look to how incredibly difficult the controls 
 make it to kill.... The Xbox versions are better in every single way possible. Why is it that the 
 last gen version of Far Cry is better then the 360 version? My game has frozen about 12 times... 
 I've accidentally ventured off the path and gotten stuck twice. The controls are crap. I've tried 
 changing sensitivity as others have suggested, but it doesn't do anything at all... The controls 
 still take a good half a second to respond no matter what you do. I know that half a second doesn't 
 sound like much, but in the large fire fights this game has.... that half a second makes the game 
 almost unplayable for my tastes. The controls also have issues sensing small analog stick movements, 
 making the sniper rifle near worthless. With titles like Battlefield 2: MC and Tomb Raider coming 
 out.... And with most of us still looking at another 100 hours of gameplay in oblivion.... There 
 really is no reason to buy or even rent this title. If you really want some Far Cry action, I'd 
 suggest either the regular Xbox or PC version of this game. I'm sure some of you have the controls 
 down.... but I'd rather play Oblivion then try to play Far Cry with a handy cap.
  
  Final Word: Total crap, don't buy this title. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mwmartin00
Rating: 6.3
Date: Apr 11, 2006 1:29 pm PT
Review:  I loved "Far Cry" for the PC, and was looking forward to playing it in High Def on my TV, in my 
 living room. What a letdown! The Xbox/Xbox 360 game is like the PC Game in name and theme only. 
 The greatest thing about the PC game, in my opinion, was that in one important way, it truly was 
 next-gen: you could go anywhere you wanted. You see an island on the horizon, you can swim, or 
 boat, or hang glide to it! You see a hill that will let you get around some enemy: go over it! 
 You see a hidden trail up a mountain: take it! There were no artificial boundaries to limit your 
 playbox. But FC: Instincts and Predator bring those horrors of yesteryear back. Invisible walls 
 and mysteriously impassible "leaf sprites" abound. It really makes the open islands feel like cleverly 
 disguised corridors and hallways of any other game. No longer can you scout out an enemy camp and 
 attack it how you want: there's usually only one or maybe two paths to get there. Very disappointing, 
 especially since we know the 360 could handle it. 
  And that's not even touching on the botched controls. I play plenty of FPS's and love the genre, 
 and this is the first on in a while which gave me so many problems. Check the forums and you'll 
 see this is a common complaint. The turn/look acceleration is very poorly tuned, so the simple 
 act of looking around is a hassle. Hopefully this problem can be patched, but I doubt they can 
 patch the bigger problem of the game maps/content.
  Bottom line is if you haven't played it already, go play the PC version. It's a much better experience. 
 Predator just doesn't fulfill the potential of the game, the Xbox 360, or of the term "next-gen 
 gaming". 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MattVans
Rating: 3
Date: Apr 11, 2006 1:17 pm PT
Review:  I bought this game even though I do have my concerns when a game is released before you can even 
 find a review anywhere.
  I can honestly say I should have definately left it in the shops and on the shelve.
  I attempted 
 trying to enjoy it for about 5 days on and off yet even about five or six levels in I was left 
 wondering when the boring "walk along, shoot a few people. walk a bit more, shoot a few more people" 
 would stop and something would make me go "yeah! now this is fun". That's the problem; This game 
 is about five years (if not more) behind everything other 1st person shooter in terms of imagination. 
 There is absolutely nothing that got my heart racing apart from I had paid 50 for it. My only 
 saving grace is that I took it back and got a refund.
  Verdict: Possily the worst game on the 360 (including Xbox Arcade) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: macemuscle
Rating: 2.5
Date: Apr 11, 2006 1:01 pm PT
Review:  If u already played FC on PC or old XBox, then save ur money for something else...
  
  Yes the graphics are better than old XBox, but we should really be demand better / real next gen 
 games as opposed to ports of old games with minor tweaks
  
  I'm sure it makes a lot of business sense to the developers/publishers... in other words a quick 
 way to make a quick buck at the expense of the gamers!!!!!!
  
  And what's up with **** / jerky controls on this game?!?!?!.. much much worse than any FPS I've 
 played recently on any platform... even much worse than old FC on old xbox... completely unacceptable!!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shadowHYREN
Rating: 7.1
Date: Apr 11, 2006 12:48 pm PT
Review:  this game has a good multiplayer, but the single player has much to be desired. if your thinking 
 about it, rent it first. if you like it, by all means buy it.
  
  gameplay - the online is exciting and fun, the single player is moderately bland and uninteresting. 
 not enough weapons etc...
  
  graphics - best xbox graphics went hi-def. not going to cut it. theyre alright, but there is much 
 better out there. when you shoot enemies, its almost like they dont notice until they die.
  
  sound - its great, but the voice acting is balls.
  
  value - the online is worth playing, 
 its really good. the single player i didnt find to be that good.
  
  tilt - im not much of a far cry fan, so maybe thats why i reviewed it a bit low. if your a far 
 cry fan, you most definately like this game, but rent it first, thats my advice. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DragN1
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 11, 2006 12:39 pm PT
Review:  This game is fun, but it just doesn't get me hooked on it. The environments are ok, just not 360 
 standards, the water is amazing though. The sound is still good, and the gameplay is good too. 
 The live part is the strongpoint in this game though. The map creator is something that is different 
 for a live game, and I love it. With the map creator it opens up new possibilitys for Live multiplayer. 
 The multiplayer does get laggy though some, but if you can get a lag free game then it'll be a 
 blast. It is pretty cool to have instincts and evolution in one game, but you'll only like that 
 if you haven't played the xbox version of instincts. All in all FarCry Instincts Predator is a 
 decent game it just didn't meet 360 standards. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nandito3555
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 11, 2006 10:00 am PT
Review:  A solid game with some of the most outstanding visuals on the x360 and the best in the series.
 
  
  GAMEPLAY- This game worked on an almost perfect formula and improve it. A joy to slash your enemies.
 
  
  GRAPHICS- Great graphics and a joy watching the island. The best improvements are the depth of 
 the view and the water. Also the trees and the jungle look a lot better.
  
  SOUND- Great, the wind, the birds, the water, the animals, and the screams and the machineguns 
 sound surprisingly great.
  
  VALUE- Not so good and the levels are less enjoyable and only lasts a few hours.
  
  A great, 
 great game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: abanks
Rating: 8.6
Date: Apr 11, 2006 1:37 am PT
Review:  Having watched all the videos of the amazing water effects i couldnt wait to get this game. I had 
 the original on a high spec PC and that was great.
  
  However i feel the xbox 360 version is all talk as yes the water does look great and the graphics 
 are all crisp and next gen, until you get up close to people. What happened to there faces, they 
 look like they have had their chins pulled up to their foreheads !!
  
  The gameplay is fluid and perfect if you after a shoot now think later game, it does however offer 
 a tactical approach to situations its really up to you how you go about playing the game, i personally 
 mix the 2.
  
  I've been playing for about 3 hours now and have only just got 1 unloackable (100 head shots in 
 any solo game) so its not like other games such as GRAW where you get one for every mission completed.
 
  
  I do recommend this game but i feel it just doesnt scream next gen, currently for me out of the 
 games i own GRAW is the only next gen game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GIF
Rating: 6.9
Date: Apr 10, 2006 10:25 pm PT
Review:  Wheres the PC game I know and love? What the hell happened in its translation to my next-generation 
 Xbox 360 console? Was Ubisoft Montreal asleep at the wheel? Aren't next generation games supposed 
 to better than current gen PC games or console ports? Ubisoft spent all this time hyping the Brilliant 
 water effects but why did the open ended nature and the textures take a backseat for my console? 
 Why does this game LOOK worse than my PC game? Why does this game play like a linear pile of dung 
 as opposed to my PC game? What the hell happened in its translation? I was absent from the Xbox 
 version so if this is an improvement over that and not the PC game, I think i can try to understand 
 but I still don't like the end result. This game was one of my anticipated games and it just fell 
 short big time. Honestly, I'm not impressed and this game feels like a downgrade rather than an 
 upgrade from the original PC game. Skip this and go play the PC game on a high end PC to see what 
 you are really missing out on and how much the translation to a console suffered. At least the 
 water looks good right? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JustBlaze827
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 10, 2006 4:32 pm PT
Review:  Far Cry Instincts Predator is very entertaining. Jack Carver is a bada$$ main charatcer. The jungle 
 theme is one of the most fun and interactive places for a video game. Setting up traps and quietly 
 eliminating enemies in the jungle like Rambo is fun. I haven't tried multiplayer yet but from what 
 I've heard it's pretty good. The best part of this game is predator mode, it allows you to run 
 fast, jump high, kill enemies viscously, and see in the dark. I highly recommend this game (although 
 I didnt buy it, I traded in PDZ and The Outfit for it at GameStop) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tarjanian
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 10, 2006 2:59 pm PT
Review:  Loved Instincts for Xbox and was hpoing I could get into Predator with the same enthusiasm given 
 I'mplaying so many amazing 360 titles (Oblivion, GRAW etc) . 
  
  Rented it today and tryed all of it's offerings. Besides having hands down the most amazing looking/moving 
 water effects i've seen in a game, Predator is an overall disappointment. Why?
  
  Ubi only bothered to graphically enhance the water, vehicles, and weapons leaving most if not all 
 of the Environment and people textures and structures original blocky and bland. One minute you'll 
 be impressed with what your looking at, the next you'll be thinking "this ain't next gen compared 
 to what i've played already!".
  
  Combine those feelings with horrible movement animation for campaign and multiplayer and I just 
 can't justify spending the dough or the time.
  
  I'm holding out that Battlefield 2 MC will fill the old void left behind by FCI cause FCIP just 
 doesn't cut it!
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: bean23
Rating: 6.3
Date: Apr 10, 2006 1:31 pm PT
Review:  
  Far Cry innovates with tree booby traps and feral powers, but ultimately derivative FPS gameplay 
 disappoints.
  
  The game's narrative is weak. You are an ex-military small boat captain hired by a reporter. When 
 the reporter offers you $200 extra dollars to head out on her own, you fall asleep and all hell 
 breaks loose as you are attacked by mercenaries and must scramble to escape, find out what is going 
 on, save the girl and the day.
  
  While this sounds decent, if a bit derivative, the problem comes in with the game's sound. Often 
 during times when voice is being played on a radio, the game's theme music pumps up to completely 
 cover salient story information. Often you are left with just the basics. . . you are running away 
 from the bad guys or attacking the bad guys, etc.
  
  The jungle areas are pretty, and you can set up traps on trees and lure enemies into them by throwing 
 rocks, or sneak up on enemies and stab them in the back. These parts of the game are quite enjoyable, 
 but quickly exhausted as you use these same tactics over and over.
  
  Where the game suffers most is in the shooting portion of this first person shooter. The choice 
 of weapons are limited and they are generally very weak and difficult to shoot with any accuracy 
 or skill. Your choices for most of the game are to use a pistol (with optional silencer) or a weak 
 submachine gun that can require a full clip to take down a single enemy even at close range. Later, 
 you find better weapons, but they generally have limited ammunition and feel like power-ups rather 
 than the true way to play.
  
  Additionally, the game's graphics and interface suffer from fuzziness on an SDTV. Let me explain. 
 In HD, the game is beautiful and precise, but with an SDTV the picture is not only less accurate, 
 but so are the screens in the heads-up display. Clearly they did not use separate graphics for 
 the SDTV GUI.
  
  The feral attacks and adrenaline are a nice touch, but this game concept has been done before. 
 . . and better. It really feels like a small add-on to an otherwise disappointing shooter.
  
  Take my advice and play Call of Duty 2 or Perfect Dark: Zero to answer your X360 FPS cravings. 
 If you are an FPS nut and MUST play everything available, I suggest you rent this game before you 
 buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NeDi2004
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 10, 2006 4:38 am PT
Review:  I got this game thinking it would be a brand new remake "new story multiplayer" but i was let down.
 
  
  Story
  
  The first part of the story is the EXACT same as the original on the Xbox this was a slight letdown 
 but it was nice to play it again in HD with that sweet water. on average it took me about 7+ hours 
 to complete not looking for the secret samples or trying to get the achievements.
  
  As for the second part this was a huge letdown was "FAR" to short for this type of game took me 
 2+ hours to complete.
  
  Multiplayer
  
  The Multiplayer is good for this type of game 16 players seem a little short for the size of maps 
 you can play on so thats the only letdown. As for the editor it is the same as the Xbox one i 
 was hoping for a new huge remake of it being able to put 1000+ trees and objects in to make ur 
 own personal paradise.
  
  Sound 
  
  The sound is great in 5.1 surround it helps you to tell where you are getting shoot at. I also 
 thought the voice work in the game was quite funny the way jack was Effing and Beeing.
  
  Graphics
  
  As for the graphics they where the best part for me personally. but there was to 
 much of the same textures that where ported from the old Xbox original and didnt look that jaw 
 dropping in HD. But as for the new water it got me hooked every time i seen it i just wanted to 
 dive in it that was my favorite part of the game O. o...
  
  Conclusion 
  
  As for a Brand new game for the 360 its NOT that bad if u havent played the original on the PC 
 or Xbox this will be a big hit for you. But for the Price i paid for it50and the fact that 
 i already played the Xbox original it was not worth the big hype and wait its Good but not Great.
 
  
  Thx for reading all! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: b_wilcox
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 9, 2006 5:59 pm PT
Review:  Ubisoft dropped the ball, plain and simple.
  
  FCIP is not worth the extra expense if you've already whetted your appetite for destruction with 
 last fall's truly excellent XBox game. The visuals aren't spruced up enough (save for the water, 
 which does look really nice) and even the minor bugs from the original, such as the muted dialogue 
 mixing, haven't been corrected. There was plenty of time to remake the original game, add in the 
 new content, and produce a real winner. Ubisoft elected to push this out into the marketplace quickly, 
 and it's just not as satisfying as it could be.
  
  The core gameplay is still very good, but what the hell is up with the nuttiness? You can be locked 
 on to a target's head, but one shot doesn't kill. Or you can have an enemy near, but not in, your 
 sights and still clip him. Also, at times you can be shot while hunkering down inside one of the 
 makeshift island bunkers, but you can't return fire through the same walls? Weirdness abounds.
 
  
  The achievements require a lot of time and effort, too. 100 headshots is worth only 30 points? 
 They don't even throw you a bone for little level clearances along the way? Damn.
  
  All that said, FCI: P is still a pretty darn enjoyable game if you avoid giving it the discerning 
 next-gen eye. There's a terrific multiplayer with good variety to the maps and the games themselves, 
 and the single-player episode, flawed as it may be, has plenty going for it if you haven't ventured 
 into the Far Cry series yet. The game is undoubtedly a victim of its own hype and expectations, 
 because its wondrous debut on the PC and the exceptional XBox game had us all anticipating greatness 
 from this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cogginsm
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 9, 2006 12:11 pm PT
Review:  I can honestly say that when I played Far Cry on the PC, it was one of the best FPS I had played 
 to date. The graphics, precision gameplay, and story line all added to what I would call an excellent 
 buyer. With those high ambitions and many great memories in mind I was quick to rent Far Cry Instinct 
 Predator to test it out before I would buy it. Needless to say, I do not now own a copy of the 
 game and I never will. Perhaps I was coming down from the high that was G. R. A. W. (a must buy for 
 360 owners) , but from the get go I was not impressed at all with this title. The graphics are just 
 like I remember and the story line seemed to draw me in quite nicely, but the gameplay lacked. 
 I did not find anything unique in the few hours (granted that isn't much) I played that kept me 
 in awe, it just seemed like yet another FPS. For those that played Black, the monotony reminded 
 me of it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: isaacthedude
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 9, 2006 11:59 am PT
Review:  the game isnt as it was in instincts it got wierd .ubi soft is making more farcry games but almost 
 al of them are nearly identical.. only the xbox version of instincts was diffrent but preditor is 
 nearly the same only it has a bit better graphics (nearly no change) and its a bit longer thou the 
 boss fights are pitifull like in the first far cry game and the aiming is bad for a fps .one thing 
 that was a real improvment for my opinion is the voice acting and the story was a bit better then 
 the first far cry but still it got no sence like metal gear solid 2 (wich is puthaticly wierd) i 
 do not recommend this game i would like better to play the xbox version becuse its nearly the same 
 with better aiming and better multiplayer so i would never play this game again thou if u dont 
 have a possibility to get far cry instincts for the xbox then u should buy it (only if u dont find 
 a place to buy instincts) so i rested my case... an 8 out of 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: furionpride
Rating: 8.6
Date: Apr 8, 2006 11:08 pm PT
Review:  Ever since I saw the original Farcry in a magazine, I wanted to play it. It is now... Idk... two 
 years later and I finaly get it for the 360. My entire library of games are FPS's (With the exeption 
 of the Elder Scrolls, which I like to call FPRPG lol) And Farcry is decent for a next gen game... but 
 not quite. Farcry isnt the funnest game I've ever played, but It is really cool when the adrenalin 
 rushes hit you when you're mowing guys down with not but your bare hands. I enjoyed watching the 
 first person cut sceenes, which were written very nicely. suprisingly, your enemy's combat dialogue 
 is not cheesy. OMG!!! That is the only reason I hated Perfect Dark is because of the crappy voice 
 acting, and what they say is just... stupid. In Farcry, however, your enemy says what they need 
 to say in a serious and clear manner. You shoot somebody in this game, they go "aaagg, I need help 
 over here!" In Perfect dark, they say, "Ouch! you shot me!" ??????????
  Anyway, this is a game you should get, only if you havn't played the original for the xbox, because 
 I've heard that it's basicaly the same game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yourmom116
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 8, 2006 9:39 pm PT
Review:  this game is amazing far cry instincts looks amazing on 360 and if thats not enough far cry predator 
 is insane if you just look at the water in the game. you could mistake it for real water. The gameplay 
 is hella tight too and the sound is a breakthrugh in video gaming. so all you haters who ripped 
 on the origanol far cry this one is for you i think this is the best 360 video game to date. i thought 
 that ghost recon advanced war fighter had amazing gameply but this game brings it to a whole new 
 level. boo yah lol 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WTA2k5
Rating: 7.3
Date: Apr 8, 2006 5:37 pm PT
Review:  While this collection of games is still pretty fun to play, is just so sloppily put together, and 
 unimproved. It includes a remake of a game from just one year ago with a few minor improvements, 
 and the sequel which is extremely short and not as polished as the first.
  
  This game is still fun to play, the Instincts story is still awesome, but it was from only a year 
 ago. This is the basic gameplay of Far Cry; you get loads of guns and vehicles and an enviornment 
 that enable you to play multiple ways, and the gameplay also gets mixed up thanks to superhuman 
 powers "given" to you. While the Instincts story keeps all of this, the Evolution story lacks the 
 "... enviornment that enable you to play multiple ways," which is extremely disappointing. The Evolution 
 story adds a few new weapons and a few new vehicles to play around with, but no new feral powers 
 at all, and the new weapons are not very good. The Evolution story still has the basic elements 
 of the series to make it pretty fun to play, but the Instincts one is the main reason to buy the 
 package.
  
  The graphics definatley do not look next-gen in the Instincts story, but the Evolution story offers 
 improved models. The water effects look simply amazing and there's some neat blur effects when 
 you try to aim but, again, nothing special nor too next-gen.
  
  The sound is pretty standard. You still have some pretty good voice-overs for some pretty bad dialogue. 
 The music also sounds kind of weird, but the general sound effects are still good, but nothing 
 too special.
  
  The Instincts story is worth playing through again, but its possible to get sick of the same thing 
 that you played less than a year ago in the process, but new-comers to the series might love it. 
 The Evolution story is not as good, but is worth playing.
  
  I loved Far Cry: Instincts (the original) , and the PC Far Cry. But half this game is recycled, 
 and the other half is just not as good, so I beg Ubi, please put more effort into the next Far 
 Cry. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 281538960
Rating: 8.1
Date: Apr 8, 2006 12:09 pm PT
Review:  Far cry has been a crowd favourite since Ubisoft published the first game of this marvellous but 
 kind of boring journey. This series extended with predator come to the next gen. The game has amazing 
 and unbelievable graphics and the foliage in the game just seems to be real, but even with the 
 graphics the game did not make a good reputation because the game play sucked like a piece of rotten 
 ***** *****. the game's story is more boring than a Billy Joel album and has the worst shooting 
 experience a man could ask for, it was like the rock was holding a BFG while handling a AK-47, 
 but even with these flaws it does a great job of recovering by giving more stunning graphics and 
 better game play as the game progresses so i gave this game a well deserved 8.1.
  Thank you
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: touchofchaos
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 8, 2006 5:50 am PT
Review:  From the graphics, to weapons, and map building, Far Cry has definitely taken a step up from its 
 XBOX twin. To say the least, the game is still has fun to play on XBOX 360 as it was to play it 
 on the XBOX. But it you are a gamer looking for a great challenge to when it comes to multiplayer, 
 GET THIS GAME. Either choose a ready-to-play level, or customize your own level. That's a great 
 deal! The best was to customized the difficulty of a game is adjust how well (or hard) it is for 
 the other person to find you. Camo is the key. Play on with this game. The possibilities are endless. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tasuki100
Rating: 7.2
Date: Apr 7, 2006 4:02 pm PT
Review:  My XBOX and I dont have too many fond memories of each other, mostly because I kept on wasting 
 my money on games that were mediocre at best. I soon realized that there werent enough XBOX games 
 out there to satisfy me and fulfill my gaming demands, so I quickly focused my funds onto various 
 PS2 titles, shunning my poor little XBOX by stashing it away in my closet, while my PS2 enjoyed 
 my most affectionate love and care
  
  To this day, my feelings for my XBOX havent changed much, but there were still some XBOX games 
 that were simply revolutionary by any standard, and I adored playing every second of them. Among 
 these are such titles like Halo, Halo 2, KOTOR, and best for last, Far Cry Instincts.
  
  I could double the length of this review by putting in a second one just for Far Cry Instincts 
 (because its that good) , but that might be a bit monotonous and repetitive, since so many people 
 have played it and know just how good of a game it is. But, for all intents and purposes, lets 
 just say that FCI is one of the best FPSs ever to have come out, combining dazzling gameplay, 
 graphical presentation, story, sound, and an expansive world to collectively serve up a game that 
 can be called nothing else but remarkable.
  
  Continuing the miserable life story of my XBOX, it got an even worse treatment when I finally got 
 my XBOX360. I bought a couple of games for it, but they were pretty much uninventive; none of them 
 really stimulated me as a hardcore gamer, and alas, I predicted that soon enough, my X360 would 
 suffer the same fate that my XBOX did. But there was still one spark of reassurance left to keep 
 me from giving my 360 an early goodbye: Far Cry Instincts Predator. I got as giddy as a schoolgirl 
 when I heard that a sequel was to be released (on the same day as Kingdom Hearts II, no less!) , 
 and purchased it immediately when it came out. And now, after spending hours on this game, toiling 
 away at all the nooks and crannies that this game had to offer, I can finally give a full review. 
 
  
  To start off on a simple note, Far Cry Instincts Predator is essentially the original XBOX game, 
 remade for the 360. Still, dont let this turn you off and prevent you from buying this game, because 
 if youre as hardcore of a fan of FCI as I am, youll definitely enjoy it to some degree (I did, 
 but not as much as I wanted to) . And even for those who have never played the PC version or the 
 XBOX version, FCIP is great to get you into the Far Cry series. So, its not to say that FCIP is 
 a complete waste of your time, but that you can tell that Ubisoft didnt really take the time to 
 add satisfying amounts of new content to make it enjoyable for not only newcomers to the Far Cry 
 series, but for FCI veterans, as well.
  
  FCIP presents the same general form of gameplay as it was in FCI: a typical FPS setup with a well-thought-out 
 system of stealthily sneaking up on your enemies, and Feral abilities come back, as well. So, while 
 the gameplay and the setup is nearly identical to FCI (which can be called a good thing, since 
 its a fun system to play in) , its a shame that it hasnt built up on the gameplay from its predecessor 
 to hatch up something new and interesting for returning Far Cry players.
  
  The campaign for Predators is, mildly put, nothing special, and compared to FCI, at a much smaller 
 scale. Almost half the length of FCIs campaign, the campaign levels for Predator arent as absorbing 
 and engrossing as they should be. I would describe the plot, but Ive decided that its not worth 
 mentioning. Sorry, Ubisoft.
  
  One of the best and most beautiful aspects of the original Far Cry Instincts was its expansive 
 world that was amazing to play in, but with the linearity of FCI, there wasnt much room to explore 
 every corner of the map, and for that reason, gameplay was limited to some of the same environments 
 and surroundings. This time around, though, FCIP allows you to explore the vast and sprawling world. 
 Whats more, theres a newly-built in map editor in the game, allowing you to create your own maps, 
 giving you the ability to place specific vehicles and such. After youre done, your maps can be 
 easily shared over the online multiplayer server, and downloading other user-made maps is strikingly 
 easy and interesting to play in.
  
  The graphics are, by the XBOX360s standards, unimpressive, since they so closely resemble Far 
 Cry Instinctss. Though the water representations are gorgeous, the general graphics dont look 
 good at all. Normally Id go into a detailed analysis of a games graphical qualities, but the 
 ones in FCIP are so plain that theres no need; theyre just that: bad. Nothing else need be said.
 
  
  Far Cry Instincts Predator might be called a great game on its own, but with two amazingly-done 
 predecessors before it to compare to, it doesnt really measure up to the hype. Plus, the game 
 as a whole isnt exactly a great demonstration of the XBOX 360s capacity and potential in terms 
 of graphics, sound, and general gameplay (whereas FCI pushed the XBOXs graphical capabilities 
 to its limits, and so forth) . If youre short on cash and you want to make the wiser choice, stick 
 to renting this game rather than spending the 60 bucks to buy it, because chances are, the experience 
 may not be as enjoyable or worthwhile as you anticipate it to be. You may disagree and say that 
 since FCIP is so much like FCI, itll be amazing; you may be right, but in the end, its too repetitive 
 and redundant to be completely enjoyable to Far Cry veterans. However, if youve never played a 
 Far Cry game before and want to see what the hype is all about, FCIP is a great place to start. 
 In fact, Predators is much more suitable for newcomers than old Far Cry fans. So, tying back to 
 the story of my XBOX and my new 360, FCIP is just another one of those mediocre games that one 
 day, will cause me to store my 360 console right along with my XBOX. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: JeffisGawd
Rating: 8.7
Date: Apr 7, 2006 2:05 pm PT
Review:  Let me start by saying I loved the first Instincts. When I heard that Ubi was packaging both the 
 original Instincts with the new storyline and putting it on the 360, I was both excited and skeptical. 
 Personally, I'm really glad they did.
  
  Lets start with normal Instincts. It does look better now, with less pop in than the original on 
 XBox, but it doesn't look "next-gen" good. It doesn't look bad, but they could have definately 
 done a better job. It essentially just looks like the original, only sharper and with even better 
 water effects. That's about it. Is that a bad thing? When you're shelling out $400 a new gaming 
 machine, plus another $60 for the game.... yeah, it is. However, the first Instincts on XBox looked 
 really good, and a much sharper looking version still looks good in my eyes. It's almost like comparing 
 Burnout Revenge's graphics on the 360 to the original XBox version. The 360 still looks really 
 good, but not that much better than the previous gen's version. It more or less a lot about how 
 good it looked before. Instincts on the XBox is one of the best looking games available for the 
 platform.
  
  Single player wise, this game will really deliver if you haven't played the original Instincts. 
 You're looking at AT LEAST 15 hours of playtime between the two storys unless you cheat or try 
 to beat the game as fast as possible. I actually enjoyed the Evolution story more than the original, 
 which was a pleasant suprise, even though I see most people thought it fell a little short. 
  
  Ubi decided, for some stupid reason, to add a fast-look, much like Perfect Dark Zero. The only 
 difference is that PDZ gives you the option to turn it off, unlike Predator. You can work around 
 it (I turned my sensativity all the way down to 2) , but it's a bit annoying. Driving is still in 
 first person, and thus, it still isn't that great. I don't mind much, but third person is still 
 soooo much better. The feral powers are still in the game and I'm happy to report that they're 
 actually a little better. These powers really set this game apart from other FPSs gameplay wise. 
 
  
  I don't play on Live, so I can't comment on that, but I play four player split screen regularly 
 and it's a blast. A solid framerate, great looking maps, the only problem is that the pop-in in 
 much more noticable. A drag, but not a mood killer. It's still my favorite multiplayer game. There 
 are also plenty of maps to choose from that range from huge to small, 23 to exact.
  
  All in all, I fully enjoyed the game. I can understand why some people are disappointed, but I'm 
 not and that's all I really care about.
  
  My true overall score is a 9.6/10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lolgubbe
Rating: 9.9
Date: Apr 7, 2006 11:51 am PT
Review:  this game is awesome in many ways first off the graphics is really, really good you know the draw 
 distance the water effects and just everything is really, really good and impressed to be honest. 
 of course the first far cry instincts to the xbox was having good graphics and it was a amazing 
 game too. but this adds a really really fun online-multiplayer as the first one but this is just 
 more fun and better plus that it adds more advanced weapons and more amazing graphics and everything 
 in the package make this game a must-have for anyone owns a xbox 360 and looking for a thrill ride 
 like this game of course there's other amazing games like oblivion GRAW upcoming bf2: mc to the 
 360 and more........ but this worth cheking out for everyone 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lord-azrael
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 7, 2006 1:39 am PT
Review:  The game starts up with a first person cutscene of you talking to some women and here the first 
 and one of the worst problems of the game becomes apparent, Jack sounds like he has no balls and 
 wants to be Raiden, gone is the hardman voice from PC version, but this small problem considering 
 how many great games have bad acting. But as soon as the game starts those thoughts leave my mind 
 as i start running and gunning my way through the game sending corpses flying in all directions, im 
 loving it till i run into a building clear both floors and then as im walking back down the stairs 
 a bullet hits me from behind, i turn round and see 3 people spawn right in front of me, lame. This 
 is the main problem in this game but no way the only thing wrong with it, on several occasions i 
 saw corpses floating in the air break dancing, i even saw it happen to a truck on the second half 
 of the game, but hey glitches happen in even the best of games. So enough about the bad points onto 
 the good, the action is fast and frantic (much faster than the original PC incarnation) enemies all 
 over the place and some nice vehicles and weapons (would be better if you could use the vehicle 
 weapons while driving like PC) , the ragdoll is reasonably good but not as good as it could have 
 been (they should have used the cry engine from PC) but proberly best feature's is the animal powers 
 and water effects, nothing like uppercutting a terrorist and watching him fly for miles, oh and they 
 removed the stupid ape things that punch from a mile away even through walls. Only other bad thing 
 is the fact both chapters seem to just end. For example on second story you kill the evil guy at 
 top of a mountain in a area swarming with enemys yet once the villain dies that it, no chapter of 
 you making your way down the mountain and escaping from the evil tribe that wants revenge for killing 
 their leader, or from the rebels that think you also bad guy it just ends. Very lame. Multiplayer 
 is good but to many games are laggy like helll, surprising it seems to be the offical maps that 
 lag while most homemade maps i tried seem to work fine, and talking of homemade maps the map-maker 
 is great, no reading hundreds of tutorials just get stuck in, I just hope that they release more 
 templates for the map making on the marketplace and more matchtypes (a halo style one flag capture 
 would be great) So my final word for if you thinking of getting this and thats, YES get it, sure it 
 full of glitchs youll proberly see around 3 a level but the game is still great. Well im off to 
 Moltov some terrorist scumbags. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sharpshooter226
Rating: 8.7
Date: Apr 6, 2006 5:55 pm PT
Review:  In far-cry instincs predetor you will play the x-box version and then the new one the visual effects 
 in this game is amazing the ripples in the water and the waves in the sand make you actually feel 
 like you are on this island some of this game is really just more of the same nothing really new 
 has been added it would have been nice to play in a newer inviorment with some new weapons but 
 the ai was partially improved the map editor is one of the best things but overall if you are a 
 fan of the far-cry series and you own an x-box 360 then i would recomend cheking this one out 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jamesydagger
Rating: 7.3
Date: Apr 6, 2006 11:28 am PT
Review:  I have never played a Far Cry game before so I started with a fresh slate and after Halo 2 and 
 Call of duty 2 I think I expected too much. After cranking down the sensitivity way down to 1 as 
 the controls are way to fast for a FPS I decided the graphics were ok but the sound on this game 
 is amazing (apart from the dreadful music) I was talked into getting this by my cousin who wanted 
 to exchange maps we have made and after the recent Timesplitters map editor I thought why not. 
 Ahh, but.... you cant search and see if there are any good maps on far Cry multi-player because 
 you have to join a gme, download from host, get no preview or thiumbnail of the map and basically 
 cross your fingers and hope for the best. Needless to say this is going straight on ebay and i 
 will get myself Tomb Raider Legend as I cant even be bothered to complete Far Cry and get the remaining 
 achivements! (yes, its that bad!) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ravier666
Rating: 6
Date: Apr 6, 2006 11:09 am PT
Review:  Far Cry on pc, that's where it all started out and it was brilliant. Far Cry Instincts on Xbox, 
 great, but only for as long as the good parts would last untill you get the urge to do something 
 else. Far Cry Instincts Predator, near-overgloryfied Far Cry Instincts with absolutly no adjustments 
 made to the controls, sound, enemies (health) which really is a shame considering what this game 
 potentially could have become. Thats basicly it, I have nothing more to add, this is what I think 
 about it and unless the game can be patched then I don't think it will make it as far as many other 
 FPS' have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OMGFINE
Rating: 8.4
Date: Apr 6, 2006 10:08 am PT
Review:  The good: Great value, offers 2 campaignes, an excellent multi-player & the map editor, which is 
 half of what makes this game what it is... Decent gun & vehical collection. Still has it's great 
 implementation of the feral powers. It's almost a must buy for those who have not expiranced it, 
 it is a must buy if you have not expirianced it & if you have Xbox Live. tons of achievments, mostly 
 for multi-player, & they will remind you that you are a geek. Um... Great water effects?
  
  The bad: Graphics havent improved much since Instincts, except the water, but honestly, that gets 
 old 10 minutes after you start to play. The AI is somewhat mental. The only thing really bad about 
 this game is that it just hasent improved enough since the last.
  
  Final word: I just rented this game, & it is great, I beat the campaigns in about 10-12 hours, 
 but so far I've spent most of my time trying to create a map that somewhat will aventually look 
 like a tropical Helms deep. I only played through instincts once, so I wasent that dissapointed...
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Exodia_Necross
Rating: 4.7
Date: Apr 5, 2006 10:15 pm PT
Review:  The only reson I bought this game was because pc and xbox versions where damm good. But now I find 
 myself playing battlefield 2: MC 360 demo, oh yes its online too. Back to the review, let me make a 
 list of how terrible this game is. The graphics on this game look like the xbox version (except 
 the water rendering is good) the aming is awful you can't even get a head shot because most of the 
 time you'll be aiming with the left stick not with the right (as people call it strafing) the online 
 is worse than call of duty 2. I suggest too just download the battlefield 2 demo because if your 
 looking for next-gen gameplay and graphics your not going to find it with far cry. And an other 
 thing if you want to play the evolution story you got to play the instinct one first so if you 
 passed the xbox version they make you play it all over again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AFraud
Rating: 5.5
Date: Apr 5, 2006 5:01 pm PT
Review:  Just get FarCry for the PC. It's a far, far better game and it's at bargain bin prices at this 
 point. I think I've seen it for $20 at Walmart. 
  
  FarCry PC has massive outdoor areas that allow you leeway in completing your objectives. You can 
 use stealth, or go in and mow everyone down like a tank. In many cases the jungle is wide open, 
 and you can run off and hide if need be, or pick off enemies from a distance under cover. It's 
 your choice. Sure it has some repetitive indoor areas, but when you are outdoors it really shines. 
 
  
  FCI on the other hand insults your intelligence, and is really just a pale shadow of its PC self. 
 It's a rail shooter in the worst way, and you're basically being led around on a leash and told 
 what to do. The expansive environments are gone. You can't go more than a few steps into the jungle 
 without being walled in. The graphics, with the exception of the water, are horrible. The character 
 models look like poo and the AI is dreadful. I have no idea why Gamespot gave this game such high 
 praise originally last year. Perhaps they finally came to their senses with this 7.9? And I'm not 
 sure how they can charge full price on 360 for what is essentially just a repackaged Xbox game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 1valiantknight
Rating: 6.4
Date: Apr 5, 2006 2:45 am PT
Review:  I remember playing the original FC for the PC way back. As I recall it was fun. The graphics were 
 good, the controls were solid, the AI was retarded but not as bad as it seems to be now.
  
  FCI for the 360 comes up short in every catagory. The only thing it really has going for it are 
 some cool cutscenes and Stephen Dorff's voice.
  
  The graphics are horrible, yeah yeah except for the water, the water that doesn't react to your 
 character. Objects and bodies that float in the water don't even bob up and down they just sit 
 there static, unless you touch them.
  
  The character models are just horrible and even the lush forests the game is known for seem to 
 fall short.
  
  The controls are janky, and although you can get used to them, the games just not fun enough to 
 warrent taking that time.
  
  The enemy AI is as horrible as ever. The sneaking idea is great in theory but doesn't pan out. 
 Your enemies will see you when they shouldn't and wont see you when they should, and sometimes 
 take gun fire and not even notice. Other times you can riddle guys with bullets and they still 
 wont go down. If your too far away from an enemy your bullets wont effect him even though you can 
 see them going right through him, that's one of my biggest complaints.
  
  The vehicles are okay, but again nothing really special. 
  
  The game isn't all bad. Stephen 
 Dorff does some great voice acting and the cutscenes are generally pretty fun to watch. The feral 
 abilities are pretty cool and setting traps then getting the enemy to walk into them is fun, for 
 a while at least.
  
  The map editer is probably the best feature in the game. Unfortunately I enjoyed the game so little 
 I didn't even want to make a map to play on.
  
  Compared to all the other FPS games currently on the market for every and any platform you can 
 easily get a much better quality game.
  
  Remember kids be safe, rent first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: voodoomaster18
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 5, 2006 12:34 am PT
Review:  Ubi has rarely ever let me down, again farcry seems to never dissappoint. It has a slow, but steady 
 and semi-strong campaign. Although it is backed up by a really strong multiplayer. Making maps 
 for online play has never been so much fun. Just when you started complaining that bungie didnt 
 make enough maps for halo 2, you can go online and make your own maps with your own style. The 
 games online never really lag until it becomes 8 on 8, but i have really never seen someone who 
 has that strong of a connection to host that. Downloading other person's maps is pretty cool too 
 because you can download it and use it anytime you want when you host your own rooms. Plus getting 
 instincts with evolution in the xbox 360 version of farcry is not that bad of a deal for 10 dollars 
 extra. (just think the people on xbox had to pay 100 for both so stop your complaining.) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lawrencevanrijn
Rating: 8.3
Date: Apr 4, 2006 8:24 pm PT
Review:  The story starts a bit slow, but gives a nice feel to the game. Some "know it all better" reporter 
 goes into the outdoor covering in a much too visible jet ski and soon after your shot to barrels 
 having to fend for your life.
  
  As FPS games go, this is not a bad start, but not top notch either. The graphics are pretty good, 
 and this being a lower platform game the result seems to be ok so far. Control is pretty good, 
 and the graphics are just too smooth. This seems to be a limitation too. The limits of this not 
 being a true 360 game will be clear when you enter the first ship and inspect the walls. Decent 
 on the xbox, perhaps a little below par for the 360. Still the game play is good and that is what 
 truly counts.
  
  As a 'first hour release' this game might be accepted because of a lack of choice, but i reckon 
 that the extra's on this one only last so far. 
  As an alternative Call of duty 2 is definitely better, but i reckon most of us have had enough 
 of Shooting Germans, hence this being a nice alternative. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stealthrodent
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 4, 2006 3:32 pm PT
Review:  This is a great game and I recommend it to any 360 owner who likes FPS action, Stealth, or being 
 able to make and create your own maps.
  
  MAP EDITOR: This, I would say, is the best part, The size of the maps you can make is HUGE, most 
 maps don't even use 1/4 of the size. You can make huge towering mountains and rolling hills. The 
 options are endless for what you want to make. put vehicles like cars, trucks, boats, and hanggliders 
 anywhere.
  Theres plenty of options on how you want to make the map "feel" like too. a swamp, forest, beach, 
 jungle, etc. you can also put ziplines, make tunnels and place ladders anywhere.
  
  CONTROLS: the controls arent as tight as CoD2 and take a tiny bit to get used to. the reaction 
 time seems a little late, but I got used to it pretty fast.
  
  GUNS: Theres a wide veriety of guns, but what I don't like is how with certain guns like the submachine 
 guns and pistols, their bullets only go so far, then dissapear. If you want longer range then you 
 need a sniper.
  
  Well im too lazy to write anymore, but thats good enough. I need to get back to making some maps 
 and finish Oblivion, but you should definetally look into this game and buy it, if not rent it. 
 Great game, but coulda been a little better. O ya and the water looks AWSOME. BEST WATER EVER! 
 It's soo fun to swim around in it. LATEZ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 20832140255080296236607341728964-Carlo_Rossi
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 4, 2006 12:29 pm PT
Review:  Far Cry Instincts was one of the best games released on the Xbox last year. It was also one of 
 the most demanding, and you could easily tell that the Xbox was being pushed to its limits. Unfortunately, 
 Xbox 360 owners looking to run the game on their next-generation consoles haven't had any luck; 
 the game isn't currently backward compatible with the Xbox 360. Enter Far Cry Instincts Predator, 
 a convoluted name for what is essentially an Xbox 360 version of Far Cry Instincts, along with 
 a new campaign and enhanced multiplayer support.
  
  Jack Carver and the jungle, two good things that are great together.
  
  There's a lot of gameplay 
 in Predator. The first campaign tells the tale of how Jack Carver, a retired Navy commando now 
 a charter-boat captain, gets stranded on a remote Pacific island where a mad scientist is doing 
 his best Dr. Moreau impersonation, creating human-animal hybrids. Along the way, Jack himself is 
 injected with the mysterious serum and becomes an incredibly lethal killing machine, adept with 
 both guns (lots of them) and his animal powers to tear people to shreds. If you missed out on Far 
 Cry Instincts the first time aroun 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Killocity
Rating: 9.7
Date: Apr 4, 2006 12:26 pm PT
Review:  AN IMPORTANT NOTE FROM THE AUTHOR (CONTAINS OPINIONS AND THOUGHTS ON XBOX 360, PS3, ETC. FEEL FREE 
 TO SKIP TO THE REVIEW BELOW THIS PARAGRAPH) : I have some news for everyone that, after reading 
 some of the reviews I have for some of the 360 titles, I feel really needs to be said. *sigh*. 
 I hate to tell you this, but the Xbox 360 does NOT cook pizza. It also will NOT clean your room, 
 do your job, and revolutionize your entire life. The worse news? Neither will the PS3 or the Revolution. 
 I really feel that was worth stating because, and this is just my opinion, but I'm sick and tired 
 of reading reviews that contain nothing but somebody complaining that (enter any title other than 
 GRAW or DOA4 here) isn't up to Xbox 360 capabilities and isn't "next-gen." In fact, we shouldn't 
 even be saying "next-gen" anymore because the 360 is out right NOW, thus making it a part of the 
 "current-gen" if you want to get technical. If you bought a 360 thinking that you were getting 
 some sort of virtual reality machine, you really should have done some research. Fight Night Round 
 3, Condemned: Criminal Origins, Oblivion, Call of Duty 2; these are all "next-gen" games. And if 
 you have a PC, don't come and post about how much the 360 sucks next to your "gaming rig" that 
 you've dumped thousands of dollars into so you can play Quake 4 or F. E. A. R. If PC gaming was that 
 good, the PC gaming industry wouldn't be steadily declining in sales and you wouldn't have coughed 
 up $300 for a console. And anyone who says the PS3 or Revolution is going to "stomp Micro$oft" 
 is making statements on PURE speculation. Am I a fan boy? No. I love all games. But if you think 
 Sony won't try to pinch every single penny they can off of you when PS3 launches, you're kidding 
 yourself. Well, now that I got all that off my chest, here's my review. My apologies if I offended 
 anyone.
  
  FAR CRY INSTINCTS PREDATOR REVIEW:
  
  We were first introduced to Far Cry: Instincts back on the original Xbox. It was a very well-received 
 game and my personal choice for best FPS (single-player campaign) on the console. When I first 
 got wind that Far Cry would be coming to 360, my first question was, "Will we get a TRUE sequel?" 
 While Far Cry: Instincts Predator doesn't much deliver on that, it does deliver the best FPS experience 
 on the 360 since Call of Duty 2. (IMO) . Here's how this game breaks down:
  
  Graphics: They were amazing on Xbox, and they're amazing on 360. I wouldn't say that you've seen 
 it ALL done before in the first one, but alot of things do look similar. The most noticeable element 
 to have a stand-out graphics enhancement is definitly the water. It looks about as real as you 
 can get without diving in for real. Guns look good, there's an excellent use of shadowing, and 
 the environments are, for the most part, crisp and detailed, a bit moreso than their original Xbox 
 counterparts.
  
  Sound: Guns sound very nice, and explosions from the hand grenades look and sound alot like C. O. D.2. 
 Enemy chatter is alright but nothing new if you've already played through the game. Perhaps the 
 best part of it all is the ambient sounds (environmental sounds, i. e. birds, etc.) . You really 
 feel like you're walking around on an island.
  
  Control: Pick up and play for just about everyone. Anyone who's played a FPS has gotten used to 
 this scheme. The only tricky part is using the right bumper to set traps, and even that becomes 
 second nature with a little practice. Movement of your character is easy and responsive, as is 
 aiming down the barrel of your weapons. With the sniper rifle, you can hold your breath for a limited 
 amount of time to help you steady your aim.
  
  Entertainment: If you're the kind of person who likes to create maps, this game will keep you entertained 
 for a very long time. The map editor is awesome, and there's few things more rewarding than being 
 able to customize your very own tropical paradise for battle. The single player campaign is a direct 
 port from the Xbox version until you hit Evolution obviously, so you can set your bearings based 
 on that information. Also, one thing that does kind of suck is that you HAVE to play through Instincts 
 to get to Predator. I would love to know the train of thought behind that, since Ubisoft should 
 know that 80% of the people who are going to buy this game have played it on the Xbox. For that, 
 the game lost a couple of points. Also, be ready for a harder A. I. and more enemies in alot of 
 areas. I found myself repeating a few spots multiple times before clearing them.
  
  In short, if you like FPS games, you'll LOVE Far Cry: Instincts Predator. If you never played the 
 old Far Cry, you simply can't miss this one. If you have, then your feelings towards that game 
 will pretty much carry over to this one. It's been some time since I played the original and I 
 am enjoying playing this version very much. In the end, I have no reason NOT to recommend this 
 game as a purchase. If you're thinking of renting it first, I can also very highly recommend that 
 as well. Bottom line: Excellent game worth a playthrough for anyone who loves a GREAT FPS.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: philcorey
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 4, 2006 10:55 am PT
Review:  This game is an expansion of the first game, "Far Cry Instincts." The game is similar to the old 
 one, but you have your abilities at the start of the game. This is one of the best attributes of 
 the game. You can jump really high, run really fast, and see everything extremely clear. It has 
 improved graphics from the first game, and has a less liniar feel to it in story mode. The map 
 editor is better because you can change the terrain in the middle of editing a map, and because 
 the 360 has much more power than Xbox, it can handle many more objects to the maps. 
  
  The problem with this game is that you have too beat the whole first game (better graphics than 
 Xbox version) before you can play the expansion (use cheats.) The guns are the same as in the first 
 game, and the multiplayer is the same. 
  
  This game will only interest you if you liked the first game (I did.) If you didn't like it, you 
 won't like this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: a7medy
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 4, 2006 10:44 am PT
Review:  2 tell u somthing i now this game and the story of this game is the same story in the original 
 farcry but i think the graphics is 2 way diffrent its realy a good and fun game even in online 
 every one who love fps he should try this game or rent it then i now he will buy it 2 tell u about 
 my self my bro buy this game in the xbox and i didnt try it becuse i was a freek in halo 2 but 
 when i see in the site i asked my bro about it and i try it i said 2 my self i should buy this 
 game wright away and i did it one out of the best games you will ever played i like the way and 
 the style of this game anybody who like fps and not like it this is my advice 2 behonest whit you 
 its not a next gen but it so fun and cool 2 play you realy dont want a miss it if you dont no what 
 2 do you should at least rent it and thanks 4 reading my review : ) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chipdoc
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 6, 2006 8:30 am PT
Review:  I originally played the original Xbox version and was impressed with Far Cry's enviroment, the 
 feral abilities-twist and the excellent gameplay. When I purchased my Xbox 360, I was looking forward 
 to playing this amazing game on a more capable system.
  
  I was not disappointed. Although Ubisoft makes you play through the original story, it was actually 
 fun because the AI has been tweaked: the mercs dodge, retreat, attempt to flank you and are just 
 more aggressive. Some small map modifications are in there and they've placed new objective achievments 
 like finding hidden serum vials. The graphics have gotten a face lift and the water is just georgous. 
 Oh, and there are difficulty settings this time. The Evolution game is about half the length of 
 the original, but it's really fun because you get to use your feral abilities from the beginning.
 
  
  The map editor has been improved with zip lines, mounted guns, more vehicles and a new seek and 
 secure mode. You can't import your old maps from the original, though. Once you start playing around 
 with the editor, it's addicting. Multiplayer is a highlight and I find myself going back to it 
 again and again. The maps are balanced and the Predator mode is really fun.
  
  OK. So maybe the graphics aren't 'next-gen' enough for most reviewers. Yes, the character models 
 look wooden, the cut scenes are rough and the environment looks a lot like Far Cry: Instincts for 
 the Xbox. I'd really call it Far Cry Instincts 1.5: Predator. 
  
  If you haven't played the original Xbox version, this game represents a great value. You get the 
 original game, the expansion 'Evolution' game, an improved map editor and an excellent multiplayer 
 map set.
  
  At the end of the day, FCIP is a fun first person shotter that's got a lot of replay value with 
 the difficulty settings, map editor and multiplayer. If you have an Xbox 360 and you are a first 
 person shooter fan, buy this game.
  
  If you want to play Evolution right away: 'GiveMeItAll' will do the trick. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LouieV13
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 4, 2006 8:49 am PT
Review:  Gameplay: Its pretty good but when your a preditor its very buggy when you use the melee hit it 
 sometimes wont even hit them even when your right next to em!! The crouching is VERY sluggish you 
 will want to crouch and you will lay down or not even that!! 8
  
  Graphics: Great water effects but thats it everything else look normal high rez stuff nothing special. 
 The charecter models are horrible tho... 6
  
  Sound: GREAT ambiant sounds i love them exspecially the waves and the monkeys :p i dont really 
 see anything wrong accept the really funny bad voice acting by the the AI they are funny. 9
  
  Value: AWSOME multiplayer definatly play with friends trying there maps making funny stupid 
 maps is fun getting some laffs and stuff. 10
  
  Tilt: BUY IT!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Notoria
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 4, 2006 7:38 am PT
Review:  Far Cry started back in 2004 and impressed the gaming world with it's amazing graphics a awesome 
 gameplay. Then Far Cry Instincts came along and upped the ante for Xbox gamers. Now, with Far Cry 
 Instincts Predator, you get the the original Far Cry Instincts and the new campaign Far Cry Evolution 
 on one disc!! I played both version (360 and xbox) and i must say the 360 version is just plan 
 unbelievable. It's not as though Ubisoft made the graphics totally next-gen (the character textures 
 look sort of the same) but the environments are sweet (especially the water.) But what really stands 
 out is the value and the gameplay. i mean you do get two games in one with updated graphics and 
 amazing mutiplayer. The game will last you a long time. And the game has kept the amazing action 
 and suspense that we loved from the original. I wouldn't compare the 360 version to the xbox version 
 because in the end, you do get more "bang for your buck" in the 360 version. So for anyone with 
 a 360 this is the shooter for you! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarkSnakesoul
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 4, 2006 4:26 am PT
Review:  Another farcry well more like another addon or game bundle pack. This game contains 2 games basicly 
 which are both not bad for playing. The game has improved its story adding more things and changing 
 a bunch of stuff from the original farcry for the pc story. The game also adds a few new vehicles 
 but nothing to be jumping for joy.
  
  The game lacks the ability to fly choppers and also the ability to explore the island as the game 
 trys and makes you feel like your free to walk around just by the looks. The game play is lacking 
 some things such as gore or aleast some blood to tell you that you hit and killed your target. 
 The game also pushes you where you have an army vs you and they are equiped with machine guns, 
 grenades and rocket launchers vs you that only allow to carry 3 guns which makes some of the missions 
 hard even if you put it on easy settings.
  
  The game has some neat things added such as traps to ambush your enemies, a better hide system 
 which allows you to hide in bushes and the enemy will just walk by you if they can't see you that 
 well. The game also adds a few skills where you can attack and heal yourself over time almost feel 
 like halo the healing of the shields over time.
  
  Some of the missions though have spawn problems such as a large amount spawning all at once or 
 you seeing them spawn infront of you which takes away the realistic thought of hey these guys are 
 coming from the opening in the celling or they are coming from that tunnel but instead it gives 
 you omg they have teleport technology because they are appearing in my face out of thin area.
 
  
  But overall its a not bad game and a fun shooter up with a weird story. I suggest you rent it of 
 you can or buy a used working copy instead, overall this game could of been more improved i think 
 from the pc farcry version. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rubjeveen
Rating: 6.3
Date: Apr 4, 2006 2:44 am PT
Review:  i was very looking forward to this game, because i thought the 360 had the abbilities to make this 
 game very special (gameplay as graphically aspect)
  but in the end, it's nothing more then a pollished version of the orginal 
  the trailers i've 
 seen the last 2 months were very impressive, the graphics 
  were outstanding, but what i think is what they shown us is the thing we've missed in the 2 other 
 versions (pc ,xbox) like beautiful looking water.
  but that's it! All the other textures, like trees ,weapons ,grass etc..
  seem to be untouched 
 and look really the same as before!
  the gameplay overall is tight and fast, with a good frame rate (which is very important) But i don't 
 like the weapons and how they act, every weapon you shoot is allmost without recoil! its gives 
 absolutely no satisfaction!
  You run and gun most of the time, and when you get a new weapon 
  it just don't feel as a good 
 upgrade. most of the time you kill the enemy's
  with your own hands. thats is really cool but it takes alot of the game play
  it's just to easy 
 ,actually you don't need your gun because fighting is much more easier and effective! you walk 
 onto an enemy wait until the icon springs up and click on a button. after 2 hours of playing that 
 kind of gameplay is really boring!. the A. I of the enemy is good but not outstanding, most of the 
 time they won't notice that you've shot a guard nearby. On xbox live this is a good shooter
  but thats it! it has no tactical gameplay! something i like!
  So afterall do you like run and 
 gun gameplay? yes, buy this game
  but for people that like tactical gameplay, give it a rent
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Languish
Rating: 4.7
Date: Apr 4, 2006 1:11 am PT
Review:  I loved the original farcry, and had high hopes for this game, and they were dashed against the 
 rocks. I play with a group of very professional gamers and we simply had zero fun playing this 
 online. The single player was equally disappointing. Aiming is difficult and unintuitive, enemies 
 (AI and Humans) seem to require dozens of bullets to take down. The graphics are fantastic which 
 is a shame really. The sound is so-so. The main problem is for a FPS the guns should really be 
 of a high enough priority. The sound awful. The ambient sound in the game is excellent. Very much 
 a missed opportunity - i took my copy straight back. I would advise no one to even rent this game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alexistheshitbe
Rating: 6.7
Date: Apr 3, 2006 10:03 pm PT
Review:  Well, this game is alright. I never played it for Xbox so can't compare to that but it just doesn't 
 seem next-gen enough, especially after having played GRAW for the last month.
  At first glance, I like the environments. It's pretty cool mixing jungle/beach settings where you 
 can jump out of foliage and ambush unsuspecting fools. The lighting effects are good, but definitely 
 not the best seen on the 360.
  Graphics are pretty good, but lacking. There's still lots of things that are a little weird. The 
 foliage just doesn't do it for me -- doesn't look next-gen. The gun models are pretty good. The 
 one thing that looks amazing is the water. Oh man, does it look good. Otherwise, the graphics are 
 a dime a dozen.
  THe control is ho-hum as well. It seems a little awkward at times (like when getting in and out 
 of the water, etc.) .
  The aiming is a little weird although the further on I played, I found it pretty easy just to smoke 
 guys in the head and drop them in a hurry. Jury is still out as to whether or not that's a good 
 thing. 
  The controls for the vehicles are downright horrible. No mincing my words here -- they suck. They 
 are so bad, the game would have been better of not even having drivable vehicles. Oh yeah, they're 
 that bad. Did I mention the driving controls suck?
  Also, while a neat concept, the booby-trap thing is kinda bad. I used it once to kill a guy and 
 then decided it was a huge waste of time. It's way easier just to sneak up and stab a guy in the 
 back or just cap his ass.
  The story is lacking. Not enought of it and the levels are repetitive. How many little bad-guy 
 villages can there be in a single jungle? One around every corner, apparently.
  The sound is decent. Guns blast, grenades blow up and vehicles buzz along. 
  Online multiplayer 
 also leaves a lot to be desired. The one saving grace is that you can make your own maps with the 
 map editor that is surprisingly deep.
  It's so deep, I found it more fun to make maps than to play the actual game but maybe that's just 
 because I'm a huge geek. 
  Anyways, I couldn't recommend this game. It would be a good rent but I don't think the online multiplayer 
 is deep enough to warrant a buy.
  It's disappointing because I generally see Ubi Soft as a producer that puts out amazing games.
 
  Shame on you Ubi Soft programmers -- only because I know you can do so much better.
  
  -Alex
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mungen_Jin
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 3, 2006 5:58 pm PT
Review:  I love this game... not only does it include a new game but an amped up version of the old one. 
 It has a wide range of guns and the jungle is still looking good not to mention the swimming (most 
 FPS's water is like lava) . I would tell you to go buy this game based on that but the developers 
 just said "let's not stop there". Two words... Map Maker. The map maker is one of the best features 
 to ever appear in a game and sharing your maps online is fun. You also get to download other peoples 
 maps adding to the variety of this excellent game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WILdcatCHIMP
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 3, 2006 5:05 pm PT
Review:  .Ok I will make this short and sweat. I have found this game to be almost perfect in every way. 
 The only thing that made me really hate this game is a map that you spend 10 hours making and it 
 breaks. Other then that the game is easy to learn, has a fun XBL experience [ if you have a good 
 connection ] . Great graphics, great gameplay, great gameplay. This here is a must buy game for 
 the xbox 360. I have loved this game and I am sure that all of you will love this game. But when 
 your not sure there is always gamefly. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: T-Mac1H
Rating: 6.7
Date: Apr 3, 2006 2:23 pm PT
Review:  Single player doesn't really make any sense. You start the game as a fisherman and next thing you 
 know you are getting attacked by mercenaries and natives. The story is mediocre at best. The game 
 does nothing to break the mold of 1st person shooter games. It is like any other 1st person shooter 
 game except not as good. The graphics are unimpressive, they are pretty much the same as regular 
 XBox. Online is disgusting, it lags so bad that when you kill someone they die 10 seconds after 
 you kill them. If you like 1st person shooter games that are good and play well online you are 
 better off buying Perfect Dark, Call of Duty, Ghost Recon, or waiting for Battlefield 2. You bought 
 the XBOX 360 you might as well get a game that has graphics and gameplay made for the system. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cheerio2
Rating: 6.6
Date: Apr 3, 2006 1:22 pm PT
Review:  If I were the person reading this review I would not buy this game. I strongly reccomend NOT BUYING 
 THIS GAME. The graphics are not the best, looks like it came straight from the Xbox not made for 
 360. Sound is decent. The story line is VERY poor in my perspective. This game is not that great. 
 I regret spending my $60 on this. I would say that the only good thing about this game is the map 
 editor. The online community is pretty good. The online is decent but the whole game takes no skill 
 cause the aiming crosshair is a huge circle. I would save the money for a different game. Farcry 
 doesn't have many strong points at all. I mean c'mon. The graphics look like they were from the 
 Xbox. I have an HD tv, but it still looks bad. The whole game is mediocre. I strongly reccomend 
 not buying this game and I have learned my lesson. I hope Ubisoft can pull their stuff together. 
 And did I mention that you have to play through the first Farcry game in order to unlock the new 
 story line. (Both storylines are bad) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zacksteen
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 3, 2006 12:51 pm PT
Review:  This will be a game that is looked back on as a bridge between what games were and what they will 
 become. I consider this the "Obi Wan" of the 360.
  
  Yes, the game-play is for the most part intact, but the visuals can be ugly at times and "near" 
 next-gen at others. The AI is pretty lame and the checkpoints can be maddening.
  
  The online has potential, but true to UBI form, there is terrible lag, the VOIP cuts in and out 
 and I've already seen some glitching.
  
  All in all, this really just an excuse to cash in on the lack of games for the 360. It's qutie 
 the EA move, although in the end, EA has at least made some serious attempts to utilize the 360 
 hardware. 
  
  Play Far Cry for a few minutes and then pop in Call of Duty 2. You're jaw will drop at the difference 
 in quality. This is just an Xbox game with new clothes. I'd wait for a price drop. Trust me, you 
 aren't missing much. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MisfitsDanzing
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 3, 2006 8:18 am PT
Review:  a 50 / 50..
  
  yes the game was beautiful the only problem i had with it was the pistol fighting lasted to long 
 and the smg did to and it was kinda the same with same points... cry is a new company but they still 
 havent learned their lesson. this game is very long and very hard not loke hard serious hard but 
 when u get hit 3 times ur health goes down so much i wish u could just save at any point of the 
 game... i do give the 360 great credit cuz i feel llike im playing a different game the graphics 
 r jaw dropping but i still think its not better then doom 3 or hl2 on pc something is missing i 
 dunno what but something is... besides the point it was good so far i just wish this would come 
 out for the pc cuz i like shooters on a mouse. but if ur looking for a great fps and u played this 
 on the xbox before i dont think it would be different for u! so get this game the minor cons arent 
 biggies, from my stand point this game was worth its 60 bucks 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GoldFireFly
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 3, 2006 7:04 am PT
Review:  Its only been a few short months since Ubisoft released Far Cry Instincts on the Xbox, and many 
 of us were left wondering why they were even bothering with the Xbox 360 launch right around the 
 same time. We now have our answer as the ambitious company is unleashing their latest title in 
 the ever growing franchise. Far Cry Instincts Predator on the Xbox 360 includes the original storyline 
 from last falls Xbox title as well as a brand new chapter called the Evolution campaign. The Xbox 
 version was a showcase in what the big black box was still capable of, but many fans have been 
 eagerly awaiting the next-gen release of the shooter that was first seen by PC gamers before making 
 the transition to the console. Thanks to the power of the Xbox 360, Ubisoft has been able to once 
 again put together an impressive shooter that continues to push the boundaries of the FPS genre. 
 While Far Cry Instincts Predator may not move forward by leaps and bounds, it does offer Xbox 360 
 owners plenty of reasons to check it out. On the other hand, it might not live up to the high expectations 
 some fans have come to expect. 
  
  Gameplay 
  
  Those eager to dive head first into Evolutions storyline will have to complete the Instincts chapter 
 of the game as Ubisoft has decided to lock the Evolution campaign by default. Bummer right? Well, 
 thanks to a handy cheat code players who have already experienced Instincts can simply enter GiveMeItAll 
 in the cheat menu and get down to business. Although the visuals have gotten a nice boost on the 
 Xbox 360, the Instincts mode of the single player campaign is basically a port from the Xbox version. 
 The controls are a bit more precise and players can adjust their sensitivity to accommodate according 
 to personal tastes, but for the most part the two versions are identical as far as gameplay is 
 concerned. 
  
  Once moving on to the new Evolution campaign, Jack will progress through eight maps that are more 
 interesting than those of Instincts, but still very much feel like the same game. More frustrating 
 is the fact that the first three maps actually comprise the entire first level of the new campaign, 
 leaving the overall impression of Evolution a bit on the short side. To be perfectly honest, Evolution 
 feels more like an expansion pack to Instincts rather than any type of sequel or follow up title 
 of its own. Still, having both campaigns in a single release is a great value, but we cant help 
 but wonder why Ubisoft seems intent on releasing as many versions of Far Cry as they can without 
 actually coming up with a true sequel to the PC version released two years ago. The original PC 
 version of Far Cry dropped jaws and amazed shooters, but since then we have yet to really experience 
 a leap forward in the games offerings. Thats not to say Far Cry Instincts Evolution isnt still 
 a great shooter that offers up hours of excitement, but Ubisoft better step things up a notch or 
 the franchise may start to taste a bit stale.
  
  Gameplay Controls 
  
  Both campaigns feature the same basic control scheme with the Evolution story allowing Jack to 
 utilize his feral abilities from the start. These abilities include seeing enemy scents that make 
 them easier to spot in the dense jungle foliage, as well as being able to run on all fours at a 
 high speed. Jack will also be able to jump much higher in certain areas that cannot be passed without 
 doing so. Probably the most entertaining feral power is striking an enemy, which results in instant 
 death as they are sent flying fifty feet into the air. To enable the feral mode, simply tap the 
 Y button once. Holding the Y button will enter the scent mode which causes any enemy scents to 
 show up an orange color. Jack will also be able to see which plants in the jungle will help recover 
 his stamina while in feral mode. All in all, the feral abilities are interesting and they do add 
 to the gameplay experience of Evolution but since they are available right away, its not quite 
 as exciting as in Instincts as the powers gradually come into fruition Jacks non-feral gameplay 
 includes the standard shooter movements that will allow him to crouch or go prone in addition to 
 standing upright. When crouched or prone, Jack is much less noticeable, allowing for a more stealthy 
 approach to a situation. If the feral strike is the coolest way to kill enemies using Jacks animalistic 
 powers, sneaking up on an unsuspecting foe and stabbing them in the back is his most impressive 
 humanistic blow. In a single motion, Jack will whip out his knife, uncovering the blade as he delivers 
 the lethal strike to an enemy. At any time Jack will be able to carry three weapons, which will 
 usually include the pistol, the automatic rifle and the sniper rifle. Later in the game there are 
 more weapons such as shotguns and automatic pistols. Most weapons allow for dual wielding except 
 for the special weapons like sniper rifles, just in case Jack is in need of maximum firepower at 
 any given time. Pressing left on the D-Pad once will select the primary weapon, while pressing 
 it again will bring up a second gun if available. Pressing right will bring up the secondary weapon, 
 as pressing it again obviously enables dual wielding of the current secondary weapon. Pushing down 
 on the right stick will bring up the sight view, which is simply looking down the barrel of the 
 gun, but when using a sniper rifle it will allow for a precise use of the guns scope. When looking 
 through the scope, there are a number zooms that can be used, including the default 3X zoom and 
 the more powerful 7X zoom of the standard sniper rifle. Holding the left trigger will cause Jack 
 to hold his breath to stable his aim before shooting. As Jack is moving around, the left trigger 
 will throw objects such as grenades, pipe bombs or rocks if he has nothing else available. Rocks 
 are good for drawing an enemys attention to a certain location. This can be quite handy if Jack 
 wants to set up a tree whip trap that will instantly kill an enemy. Tree whips are useful, but 
 a bit cumbersome to setup, particularly if an enemy is closing in. Jack will need to stand near 
 the trunk of a tree, and after pushing a button to call up the trap icon, Jack will need to move 
 into the right location on either side of the tree as the icon will highlight when the position 
 is just right. Pulling the left trigger will set the trap and anyone who happens to pass within 
 range will become impaled by the deadly device. 
  
  Multiplayer 
  
  Far Cry Instincts Predator has a decent single player mode, that includes two separate campaigns, 
 but the real fun of the game is the multiplayer arena. Composed of solid offline and offline competition, 
 Predator also features a robust map editor that goes beyond that of the previous Xbox version. 
 The map tool is still a very intuitive, user-friendly device that will allow players to design 
 their own creations, save them on their hard drive and make them available for download from other 
 users online. For Predator there are a good number of new objects, including zip lines, as well 
 as some much needed adjustments to the UI. The game wont allow for maps from the Xbox version 
 of Instincts to be imported, but Far Cry Instincts Evolution on the Xbox will. However you look 
 at it, the map editor is a welcomed addition to the game, and one that is sure to give players 
 a lot of opportunity to share their creativity in ways that will only benefit all those who take 
 part in Predators online gameplay.
  
  far cry instincts Predator is a solid shooter that die hard fans of the series or genre will enjoy 
 until the next trigger pulling title hits the Xbox 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EnderWorley
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 3, 2006 5:22 am PT
Review:  I have played and enjoyed Far Cry PC, then I got Instincts, it was fun and the graphics were nice, 
 but now that I have Far Cry: Predator for my Xbox360 I am very pleased with it. 
  
  The game first starts off with re-playing or playing for the first time the Instincts story mode. 
 Now for new comers to the game of Far Cry this is a new, fun and exciting adventure. Though to 
 the veterans of the gamePlaying the Instincts story again is still fun with the new AI which I 
 will discus later on. 
  
  First thing off that I noticed playing Far Cry: Predator is the graphics... They are very well done 
 with great textures, wonderful lighting, realistic water effects and movement, but most of all 
 now its much clearer and less fuzzy in the distance also with the new draw distance it makes the 
 grass and vegetation look less fake.
  
  Well although the graphics are extremely impressive, I would say that its not the best part of 
 the game. The game really shines in its AI. On the hardest setting Predator the AI is obviously 
 re-done and much more life like now, sometimes feels like playing a human player. Now when you 
 strafe around an enemy they will counter-strafe your moves, or if they are sniping they will crouch 
 down and crouch up so its not easy to score an easy headshot. Another element now that adds immersion 
 is the advanced tactics the AI now uses. First off they are way more aggressive, they will come 
 for you, but won't just plain out charge. They will send say three men to attack you in your face, 
 then while sending two to flank your position, and not only on one side they may also flank both 
 your sides, depending on the amount of them at the moment. This new AI adds hours of game play 
 and makes the playing the Instincts story again not so much of a bore for people who have already 
 beat it. Now last note on the AI is that its the best and smartest computer player I have seen 
 and played against.
  
  New game play elements... are there any? Yes, a very cool feature is blowing towers up in Story 
 mode. I was once sniping in a tower, I thought I was safe just chilling in spot then I heard the 
 cry of an enemy "fire in the hole!" I didn't think much of it. Then I scope out to reload my rifle 
 and the platform starts to move and shake! It then starts to tilt towards to the ground. I hit 
 the ground and die not only because of the fall but also getting rammed by falling debris from 
 the tower. After this experience I was much more cautious about where I set up sniping. 
  
  Aside from blowing towers up there are other new advances to the game play. First off the addition 
 of enemies calling for help actually has a difference in game play. Now its worth it going on 
 around being sneaky and making sure the enemies don't call for help. In one instance I played the 
 enemy hit the alarm and I was assaulted by many enemies and was killed very quickly, especially 
 with the new bullet damage in the game, you can't take to many hits before you are dead. Anyways 
 so I did the same part over but this time shooting out the alarm and killing only two guys. So 
 now its worth it to eliminate your enemies with stealth and speed.
  
  Some of the changes may seem minor in themselves but when played together they really do make the 
 game play amazing and the game more exciting. So congratulations to UbiSoft for making the game 
 feel solid and adding new game play without losing the same wonderful experience in the past Far 
 Cry: Instincts.
  
  Well the story mode is great and everyone knows the editor is unmatched with its new sleek look 
 and smoother terrain editing tools, plus new objects to place in you map, well before I get into 
 the editor I tell you about what really makes Far Cry: Predator stand out more than it already 
 does. 
  
  The multiplayer... Its different but the same, all in a good way. It feels like Instincts but plays 
 much better. Its way polished. The predator actually now works (in Instincts sometimes you would 
 get a square hit and it wouldn't count the hit) and also with the predator is a sweet new animation 
 for when he jumps, looks really good. Also with new levels and the addition of the Molotov cocktails 
 which are sweet. With the Molotov cocktail you can throw at your enemies and set them on fire and 
 a direct hit is an instant kill, and even if you miss, whatever you hit will burst into flames 
 and burn for a bit. Thus though blocking off that part of the level for a bit, well if you do walk 
 into the flames it will hurt you severely so its best to find an alternate route. Well all in 
 all the new Molotov cocktails are sweet and work real nice into Far Cry multiplayer. Now as I mentioned 
 early the levels in Far Cry Predator. There are 23 of them. So you get all the old ones and some 
 new ones. I do say though the new maps are well made and offer great game play. My new favorite 
 is Sunset bar, small but intense map; I would say is right up there with hollow town (A classic 
 level in Instincts) which is still there if you prefer it instead. What is also cool is that they 
 have a good balance of big levels and small ones, also the medium sized ones too. So whatever gamer 
 you may be Sniper or CQC player you can have fun playing Far Cry: Predator multiplayer online or 
 offline, or system link.
  
  Last thing that needs mentioning is the new Editor. I already stated that it looks and feels better, 
 but what makes it much better is the addition of the new objects place able for your maps. The 
 Zip line is cool and easy to add to your map. You can now add mounted gun turrets. Well the editor 
 is something you should explore when you but the game, there is lots of content and ability to 
 make your own true war zone for you and your friends. 
  
  This review is getting long... but its hard to cut it short because of how much content is in this 
 game and how many options there are too. So I will finish up with saying the game is great, and 
 not to discredit anyone or anything, but I have read reviews stating this game is nothing new or 
 that there are no new game play additions. Well to those people who think that I would say, first 
 off put the difficulty level to Predator, and if you have already... then i say keep playing the 
 game try being stealthy, get some of your friends on Xbox Live and make some maps to share and 
 use the many options and tools in this game to have fun. 
  
  Now to those who are undecided to but this game. I would say its well worth at least a rent if 
 you truly are unsure. This game is fun and again has many things in one package. Unmatched game 
 play and replay value is what you get with this game.
  
  Well that pretty much wraps up my review I hope it helped anyone who is undecided about this game 
 or encouraged anyone to go for another try at it if they were unpleased the first time.
  
  Gamertag: dirtyPERUVIAN, hit me up with a Friend request and we can play some Far Cry: Predator.
 
  
  Game Info/Tips: Far Cry Predator 
  -16 players online.
  -10 players best played for no lag unless dedicated server.
  -23 Multiplayer maps.
  -Two Story 
 modes.
  -In controller options put analog stick sensitivity to 4 for best game play experience.
  -There 
 are many alternate routes to take in the Story mode... they are worth finding.
  -There are numerous Easter eggs that are fun to find.
  -When a Truck or any vehicle is coming 
 at you hold X and you can board it and then press B to get in passenger position and kill the driver.
 
  -Building Jump parks is fun in the editor.
  -Press A when driving the ATV to jump
  -Going prone in grass in Multiplayer makes you unseen when viewed at from a distance but shooting 
 will reveal your position.
  -Pipe bombs are good for blocking off area in STS
  -STS = steal the sample
  -When you go to multiplayer go to the custom match option and make it 
 so you only see Non-player created maps, this way it cleans up clutter and you can find rooms quicker.
 
  -After searching for rooms in custom match option next to the amount of players in the room there 
 will be a bar. Depending on its color is how good the server is. Green being "good" and Yellow 
 being "ok" with Red being "bad".
  -Finding good friends to play with is much better then playing with people you don't know.
  
 
  Amways I hope anything I said helps your Far Cry experience.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Echo13791
Rating: 8.4
Date: Apr 2, 2006 8:56 pm PT
Review:  This is a good, solid game, and if it was a release title, than I would have given it a very high 
 score, but it doesn't live up to others shooters that have came out. COD2's SP took most people's 
 breathe away, and Ghost Recon's MP is one of the intense MP's you will ever play. This game should 
 have been those two games combine, seeing at Instincts for xbox had the best multiplayer of 2005, 
 and Far Cry for PC was had a revolutionary SP. Overall, I was disappointed. I thought that this 
 game was going to have the same feel as Halo, but it just isn't as fun. Don't get me wrong, this 
 is a very good game, but my standards have risen since the 360 came out; this game might look pretty 
 next gen, but it doesn't play like it. I was hoping more, but it is still an great game, and I 
 recommend buying it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: amirul2005
Rating: 4.5
Date: Apr 2, 2006 4:52 pm PT
Review:  i own the pc version and that was an amasing game, from graphics to gamplay and stary line..... but 
 when i went out and bought the 360 version hoping they done some more improvements before it was 
 release but i was wrong!!!!!!... bought from eb games and friday... put it on for, played it for 
 like 10min and i had to take it out of my console... its an insult to my 360... so returned it the 
 next day and got my refund.... arghhhhh what are they thinking!!!.... i hope "rainbow six-Vegas" 
 isnt going to be a dissapointment.
  i live in Australia and the games cost 120.00AUD and this games is not worth that amount of money.... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Volcom12
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 2, 2006 2:13 pm PT
Review:  THis game is great, BUt a couple things get me made like how u have ot beat the first game to play 
 the new one now that is gay as hell. But muiltiplayer is so much fun i can play predtor all day. 
 Now let me talk abou the single player alittle more the grapics are amazing expely the water. there 
 are so many guns to pick from. there are so many guys to kill to thats what is so mych fun about 
 it. THis game is not that bloody though they could of made it more bloody. THere are so many veilcles 
 to pick from. ANd they have a better map editer. TO top things of this game desreves a 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blaze0506
Rating: 6
Date: Apr 2, 2006 12:16 pm PT
Review:  Let's be honest, Far Cry on the PC is great.
  The game is superbly done in any way, because you are mostly free to do what you want. That's something 
 THIS game lacks, and it's not just bad because it's turned into an arcade shooter.
  
  Take Far Cry (PC) , a gorgeous game;
  take away that beautiful jungle, take away all places to 
 hide,
  insert a stupid strafing all-seeing AI (yes they can see you THROUGH bushes) , and you've got this 
 installment of Far Cry.. that's right:
  
  FarCry Instincts: Dissapointment
  
  I want to sneak up on enemies, stab them in the back whenever i want, not just when the game wants 
 me to.
  I want to HIDE in bushes, but you can't because they can see wherever you go. It's like i had some 
 discolight on my head, cause everywhere i went they were shooting at me.
  
  Why?! why did they make an arcade shooter out of this franchise?!
  Damn you Ubisoft, what you 
 did to Rainbow Six (Lockdown) is unacceptable; now you're doing the same to FarCry! I trusted you! 
 
  All those.. louzy Xbox ports, and sequels, sequels, sequels... what's next.. rayman kart.. Ubisoft 
 has lost alot of respect from me. 
  
  /Respect -35pts.
  
  FarCry Instincts Predator:
  Xbox ports (with Xbox graphics) of Instincts and Evolution.
  Same AI, sound and Gameplay.
  
 These are two mediocre Xbox games on a Next-Gen machine.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: oldgeek44
Rating: 4.3
Date: Apr 2, 2006 9:48 am PT
Review:  This is the worst game I have purchased for the 360. 
  
  As many of the reviewers have said.... the aiming is terrible. The graphics remind me of PC games 
 several years ago. You shoot someone (if you are lucky enough) and they float about a foot above 
 the ground. Driving a vehicle is just awful. You barely touch the stick and you are taking an immediate 
 90 degree turn.
  
  I have not having a save feature (appears to be normal in Ubisoft's games) . You spend a lot of 
 time killing off as many people as you are lucky enough to kill...... with the lousy aiming of the 
 game... and you are almost finished with the mission and you get killed........ great.... now you 
 have to start all over...... wow... what fun............... NOT. 
  
  I can't believe they have the nerve to charge $60 for this crap......... wish I could get my money 
 back. I have to settle for a $30 lesson by trading it in on something decent. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DJMist
Rating: 2.7
Date: Apr 2, 2006 8:46 am PT
Review:  Far Cry just made it to the top five list of the worst games on the 360!
  It's sure the worst port out there!
  The graphics are awful! Only the water is better from the 
 original Xbox game and nothing else!
  There is clipping everywhere!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! OMFG!!! Worst than the Xbox game!
  I hoped that the 
 animations would be better... but then again... i hoped.... terrible!
  The enemy AI? Useless!
  The multiplayer on Live? maybe the worst out there!
  
  To all of you! Keep your money in a 
 Bank!! It's better there.. trust me!
  
  This is a very powerful console... why so many awful ports out there? Where is a game like Crysis? 
 Why , why , why?
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Echelon_One
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 2, 2006 7:04 am PT
Review:  Far Cry Instincts was a great game for the Xbox. It was one of the few games that did a better 
 job than the original. With CRYTEKs first forray in the Next gen market they bring FAR CRY to the 
 next level. The Level design are simply amazing. If you found yourself stopping to look at the 
 environment in Far Cry for either the PC or the Xbox verison, you will be taking a long time to 
 finish this game. 
  
  Everything about FAR CRY INSTINCTS: PREDATOR screams revamp. This isn't a bad thing at all. Sure 
 people will complain that this is the same game, and for the most part it is. But For fans of the 
 series or new comers this game will be a trip that will throw you around and you will enjoy it 
 every step of the way. 
  
  The graphic upgrades are the most noticable difference in the game. The water and beach make you 
 think you are at some messed up CANCUN resort. The jungles you fight in are pacted and give you 
 plenty of chances to do a stealth kill or a BEAST ATTACK. One thing that is true impressive is 
 the new physics engine. EVERYTHING moves, I mean everything. Unlike other games with, when you 
 walk into a bush it just seems to stand still or go invisible, they will move. This little touch 
 makes the "WHAT WAS THAT IN THE BUSH!!" saying take on a new meaning. Other than this the new additions 
 to the vechical line up are nice and allow for some more fun. The map editor will add a lot to 
 the games replay value. If you have never tried to make a map for a multiplayer game, it allows 
 you to feel like a master of it in just a few minutes. Although the map editor is fun don't forget 
 about the excellent pre-built maps which are diverse and accomidating of anyones play style The 
 multiplayer aspects of the game are still there. For HALO 2 fans this multiplayer will be frustrating, 
 for a number of reasons. One being that your health doesn't regenerate unless you have the predator 
 mode/pick up. Another is the fact that you have a number of multiplayer play style options. Halo 
 2 has only one. RUN AND GUN/SNIPE/ROCKET/etc. Far Cry allows you be a tiger on the hunt, a Rambo 
 style psycho path, or a Hawk eyed sniper, The list goes on. 
  
  As the sun sets on Jack Carvers adventures you will be satified and please that you have a 360 
 and this game. No it is not the best 360 game out there, but it certainly is in the top 5. The 
 game sticks to the formula set in Far Cry for the xbox with next gen-ities. A must buy for 360 
 owners.
  
  9.1 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DrMatta
Rating: 6.2
Date: Apr 1, 2006 2:18 pm PT
Review:  If there is one thing i hate nowadays is that games don't deliver what they promise.
  
  Let's be honest, Far Cry on the PC is great.
  The game is superbly done in any way, because you 
 are mostly free to do what you want. That's something THIS game lacks, and it's not just bad because 
 it's turned into an arcade shooter.
  
  Take Far Cry (PC) , a gorgeous game;
  take away that beautiful jungle, take away all places to hide,
  insert a stupid strafing all-seeing 
 AI (yes they can see you THROUGH bushes) , and you've got this installment of Far Cry.. that's right:
 
  
  FarCry Instincts: Dissapointment
  
  I want to sneak up on enemies, stab them in the back whenever i want, not just when the game wants 
 me to.
  I want to HIDE in bushes, but you can't because they can see wherever you go. It's like i had some 
 discolight on my head, cause everywhere i went they were shooting at me.
  
  Why?! why did they make an arcade shooter out of this franchise?!
  Damn you Ubisoft, what you 
 did to Rainbow Six (Lockdown) is unacceptable; now you're doing the same to FarCry! I trusted you! 
 
  All those.. louzy Xbox ports, and sequels, sequels, sequels... what's next.. rayman kart.. Ubisoft 
 has lost alot of respect from me. 
  
  /Respect -35pts.
  
  FarCry Instincts Predator:
  Xbox ports (with Xbox graphics) of Instincts and Evolution.
  Same AI, sound and Gameplay.
  
 These are two mediocre Xbox games on a Next-Gen machine.
  
  Don't be ignorant, ignore it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: konichiwa21
Rating: 5.2
Date: Apr 1, 2006 8:42 am PT
Review:  Gameplay - This whole game is nothing but a port. No better gameplay at all. 
  The story mode is boring , with crappy gameplay. The entire game is the exact same thing as the 
 xbox version. 
  
  It is nothing like the pc version of far cry , like it should be. I don't recommend this game to 
 anyone. 
  
  Graphics - There are tons of 2d objects in the forrest and it really dosen't seem like a next gen 
 game. The blood is extremly fake as well. 
  
  Sound - The only thing that is average with this game is the sound. The problem is you can barley 
 hear what other people are saying sometimes. 
  
  Value - It's 60 bucks for some game , anyone who would have liked on the xbox alredy has. The multiplayer 
 is horrible , all gametypes are the same , it plays like some old goldeneye for the n64 type of 
 fps. 
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: bclagrange
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 1, 2006 7:05 am PT
Review:  When I bought Far Cry for the xbox 360 I knew what I was getting. Great story, gameplay, and graphics 
 from the original xbox version. For a 360 game it's still one of the best if not the best fps shooters. 
 The gameplay is the same which is not a letdown. I loved the way Jack can switch to predator mode 
 and savagely kill his enemies. The same great gameplay is brought to the 360. The graphics are 
 great in some spots and not so great in others. The environments look outstandind especially the 
 water, but then the character models look just like the ones on the the original xbox. Ubisoft 
 could have done so much more., like creating next gen character models making buildings and surroundings 
 destructible. The story to me is what makes this game great and the voice acting by Stephen Dorff 
 is outstanding. Ubi acquired the rights to Far Cry and I hope the next outing will be more next 
 gen. That being said this is still one of the best 360 games going even with weak points, go out 
 and purchase it and see if you can be successful as Jack Carver. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HCgamer12
Rating: 6.8
Date: Apr 1, 2006 5:49 am PT
Review:  You're Jack Carver, stranded on a remote tropical island. A legion of elite mercenaries equipped 
 with a military stockpile is rapidly closing in. Outmanned and outgunned, your survival won't come 
 easy. Only with skill, instincts and ingenuity can you conquer the enemy and make it out alive. 
 
  
  This Xbox 360 version of the hit shooter, features both Far Cry Instincts Next Chapter and an enhanced 
 version of the original Far Cry Instincts game. Gamers will experience advanced pathfinding and 
 new enemy and vehicle artificial intelligence for improved chase scenes and more enemies on-screen 
 at one time, allowing for more adrenaline-rushing fast-action sequences.
  
  DONT READ ABOVE 
  
  
  = THIS GAME IS BROKEN 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SLI-FI
Rating: 8.2
Date: Aug 29, 2006 8:57 am PT
Review:  [size=9] 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SgtLaggy
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 1, 2006 1:41 am PT
Review:  This is one of the best games I have ever played. I'll keep this review short but basically this 
 is the prettiest and most gripping first-person shooter of the entire franchise. I will also mention 
 the map editor- now with better smoothing techniques and more weapons and items, there is also 
 new templates and object packs. The only drawback I have found is that you have to play through 
 the original Xbox Far Cry: Instincts campaignbefore embarking on the Evolution campaign. And the 
 developers have added a a new game type; seek and secure, which is like a cross between Halo's 
 King of the hill and Battlefield 2's conquest. The all-time favourite PREDATOR mode is back and 
 improved, this time you can respawn dead players by using the Reinforcement station, and after 
 a predator kills someone it does a very inpresive roar. Overall well worth the hype. BUY IT NOW!!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: markt50
Rating: 5.6
Date: Apr 1, 2006 12:57 am PT
Review:  The first thing that hit me when I played Farcry was the graphics, they are not good, they look 
 very similar to the Xbox versions graphics with the added bonus of running at a higher resolution. 
 I don't know what happened to those lovely screens showing of the water, but I feel somewhat cheated. 
 I know games are not all about the graphics, but this is not the graphical goodness of next gen 
 gaming that I have come to expect. 
  
  The next problem is the controls, they have not been implemented well at all, if you move the stick 
 a little bit the crosshairs move slowly, as you move the stick more it suddenly moves very quickly. 
 There seems to be no gradual speed increase. Changing the sensitivity settings doesn't really help. 
 The result is that it is difficult to aim quickly over any target you want to shoot.
  
  The final thing I wasn't impressed with is the AI. There are times where it seems to be ok, but 
 there are other times where it is aweful.
  
  Despite all these problems the game somehow manages to remain enjoyable, If you missed Farcry on 
 the Xbox then it might be worthwhile although I'd still rent it first, if you've played it on Xbox 
 then it give this one a miss. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GreyHairedGamer
Rating: 8.4
Date: Mar 31, 2006 6:14 pm PT
Review:  Ive played Far Cry on every platform now (PC, Xbox and now Xbox 360) and I have enjoyed it on 
 each platform. Is the 360 version an improvement on the Xbox version, not a lot but then again 
 Im more into the gameplay then the graphics.
  
  Here is my review:
  
  Difficulty: I said Just Right. The controls took a little getting use to but nothing extreme. 
 I was really pleased to find the Stand/Squat/Prone was attached to the left-sticks click! I play 
 GRAW and that was a plus!
  
  Learning Curve: I rate it 0-30 minutes not much to learn if youve played FPS games on a console 
 before.
  
  Time Spent Playing: Roughly 30 hours.
  
  Classification: Underappreciated, so far the reviews have not been kind to the game and it isnt 
 bad.
  
  Gameplay (8) : The gameplay is standard FPS and enjoyable. Nothing stands out as outstanding but 
 then again nothing stands out as bad. I could play this several times at Hunter and Predator levels.
 
  
  Graphics (7) : The graphics are very much like they were on the PC and Xbox. Is that bad? Not really 
 but Im sure for most it is important and compared to other games for the 360 this one just came 
 up short in this area.
  
  Sound (9) : I like the sound. There are a lot of ambient sounds. Birds chirping, your foot steps 
 sound good, grass rustling, etc. Good quality.
  
  Value (9) : Is the game worth $60? It comes with Instinct and Instinct Predator so I think so.
 
  
  Reviewers Tilt (9) : I like the series and the game. I enjoy the storyline and everything about 
 Far Cry. I would have bought even if everyone reviewed it as a 5!!! 
  
  Personally I think most FPS fans will enjoy it. I like the fact that there is stealth included 
 in the game. It isnt all run & gun. You can sneak up behind enemies for a backstab. Were 
 all getting spoiled by better graphics and sound, but I believe the two qualities I like most Gameplay 
 and Storyline are represented well in this game. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: sirk1264
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 31, 2006 2:19 pm PT
Review:  Ok so I've read alot of review about this game saying it sucks. First off what were you expecting. 
 It was a port from the original xbox game. It wasn't a whole new game. Overall this game is great 
 and here is why.
  
  Graphics - They may not be the best graphics on the 360. But they are updated and look very good 
 for a port. The character models and trees had to be the biggest disappointment but other than 
 that the graphis look good. The explosions could have been worked on a little more.
  
  Gameplay - FCIP's gameplay is still great. It resembles classic Far Cry which isn't always a bad 
 thing. The action is still as intense as ever. Online multiplayer is good. Sometimes it can be 
 laggy but its not as bad as Instincts.
  
  AI - Playing through Instincts and evolution, the AI shoots the **** out of you. There are intense 
 firefights everywhere especially in evolution. I just started that and its a huge firefight right 
 off the bat. So the AI seems better than in the last Far Cry Instincts where sometimes the AI wouldn't 
 do anything. But the AI seems smarter in this round. There are rare times where the AI won't do 
 anything which might be a glitch in the game. All games have glitches too. 
  
  Overall, FCIP is a solid port of the xbox version. Its still one of the most intense shooters on 
 the market today. Even though graphics are not what most people were hoping this game is still 
 a must buy. Also for people that are complaining about not being able to play the Evolution campaign 
 before the instincts campaign, your problem is solved. There is a cheat code in the hints and cheats 
 section called GiveMeItAll that unlocks the Evolution campaign and you can play that instead of 
 going through instincts all over again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Derrico_8448
Rating: 6.8
Date: Apr 5, 2006 5:38 pm PT
Review:  I've had to rewrite this entire review. When i started the game, it had all of the lovable features 
 that the farcry game for the PC had. (besides the HUGE open ended environments) But when you get 
 the serum inject, the game becomes a bit mindless and not challenging. Your health regenerates. 
 WTF And when your down in the battle, you just mash the b button to get yourself out of it. I personally 
 got used to the aiming. It was kinda odd because i got so used to the delayed type of aiming in 
 this game, when I popped in Halo 2 after (a MUCH better game) i thought it was like the best thing 
 i've ever seen. And Holy hell we need a patch for the multiplayer. You cant here what the people 
 are saying, and when you shoot someone, it soesn't wven respond sometimes. I have a fast broadband 
 router, and all the other games for the 360 are AWESOME. Probably THE ABSOLUTE WORST THING that 
 happened in multiplayer is when i would shoot other players forever and finally it turned out to 
 be suicide. Yes, when I shot someone i killed myself. He was running away and i was shooting him 
 and and it sayed "You were killed by BLAH BLAH" And i would walk around and then die after that. 
 Also getting into vehicles is the most frustrating thing ever. You'll hold down the x button and 
 nothing will happen. You'll hold it down again, and you'll get in the vehicle. However, it was 
 really responding to the first time you pressed x. So then a minute later, you'll be ejected from 
 the vehicle beacause of the second click. WOW has my review changed. ^_^ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sofika8
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 31, 2006 11:10 am PT
Review:  I have been a fan of the Farcry series since the firs computer version. I mean, a guy stuck on 
 an island, with BIG guns. Knowing in advance that the Xbox 360-version of the game was not going 
 to be What The Pc Can Hadel, I went and bought the game for its great value. IT comes with FArcry 
 Instincts, which I didnt ge to complete on my freinds old xbox. But now i could do it on my xbox 
 360. Im almost dome with Instincts, and I love it. Sure, at times it gets a little bit repetitive, 
 but it keeps you going forward to unlock the story hidden in this game. Unless you have $1600-to 
 dishout on a good computer, then dont tell me this isnt eye-cady for the casual gamer. I love graphics, 
 and this game isnt a BIG let-down at all. Try graw, yeah, those graphics SUCK on hd, and regular (except 
 dry-dock) . The sound in this game has my listening. Graw didnt. I would definitaly buy this game 
 over graw. The graphics just in the Instincts part are very much imporved. Try splitscreen, and 
 how beautiful it is. Well, I have to go, but ill leave you with this, this game is pure fun. The 
 online is GREAT. I have already enjoyed 3 custom maps from people, and I have my own map, called 
 "hills". And I just wish people would stop whinning. This game is Farcry instincts too! So dont 
 give it a 5.3-when you gave Farcry Instincts on the xbox a 9.0. Its the same freaking story, WITH 
 UPGRADED GRAPHICS AND GAMEPLAY. So I believe this game is great, and people should buy it, and 
 stop whinning 
::::::

::::::
UserName: X9MMBULLETSX
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 31, 2006 10:20 am PT
Review:  this is a port of an amazing xbox game which i use to own........ now its back and better than ever. you 
 play jack carver the owner of floating debree (buy the game and u will know what i mean)
  
  graphics......... the graphics are very god i would say call of duty good maybe even a little better 
 but the character models in the instincts game are crap... they look bland and also blood does not 
 look that good.
  
  framerate......... great only tiny hiccups when it loads but so it has to do that.
  
  ai................. ok 
 so i was told that the ai was bad now that i own it and have played it i have come to this conclusion............. they 
 shoot the **** out of you......... they r good at hitting on target but not as good ai as cod2 or 
 oblivion
  
  sound.................. ok but im only sayin that because i dont give a **** about games sound it 
 graphics etc which appeal 2 me
  
  gameplay............. good but the sneaking is hardly ever used
  
  value......... well i owned 
 instincts and still love this game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZombieInABox
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 9, 2006 4:08 am PT
Review:  If you like Far Cry you will like this game. Graphics have been bumped up nicely with the water 
 (mainly) , weapons, and vehicles. As for trees, shrubs, and textures on everything like buildings 
 its a CLONE of xbox. The gameplay is virtually the same and because you have to unlock the new 
 story mode I cant even comment on that. The map editor is supposed to be good but I also cannot 
 comment on that although it was awesome for XBOX and any improvement would make it the best map 
 editor on a console game EVER.
  
  Ranking mode has been wrecked by the ever so hated TRUESKILL system as now you cant invite friends 
 or host more than 1 room in a row... this is a real bummer that you actually LOST something you 
 had better on XBOX. If this game cost a bargain price like 39.99 id say this game was phenominal 
 and well worth it for the bargain price. Though in reality they charged 60 bucks which is a next 
 gen game price and this game is NOT next gen. Though when you weigh the graphics with GRAW's multiplayer 
 graphics this game is better than GRAW's in my opinion. 
  
  Its nice to finally be able to play Farcry on 360 and its got a overhaul to it that makes it a 
 fairly new experience but sadly I feel a little angry that it cost 60 dollars. Better things to 
 come but if you need to know what games to get and not to get this game is only for those who CANNOT 
 live withought theyre FARCRY and you will get your fix but do not expect a MILESTONE forward into 
 next gen progress.
  
  Update: I finally made a map that is really good in my opinion and anybody who has been on it. The 
 making of this map was pretty cool as the Map Editor really makes it all worth it in the end. My 
 love for Far Cry is overpowering my knowledge that this game really is 110$ after you consider 
 you bought the first Far Cry for Xbox.
  
  Also after getting into single player I have to say this game is MUCH harder than I remember it 
 being for XBOX. Im only doing normal mode and I dont know what im doing wrong. Im only to the part 
 where you get CHANGED into the predator and I must have died like 20 or something times on the 
 way. I dont know if its just the AI that is so retarded but hiding and all that most of the time 
 doesnt even work as the AI seems to always be able to shoot you no matter how far and no matter 
 how many bushes your behind.
  
  Basically this game for Single player seems to be very lacking even though ive not even played 
 the Evolutions version. I remember that the Demo for the Xbox version of Instincts REALLY was bad!!! 
 Then the actual game was suprisingly fixed and pretty darn fun. This single player is NOTHING to 
 score really and since im a Multiplayer gamer this game is better there if you can find it withought 
 lag. The map editor is really where the game is better than anything else on the market. So scoring 
 the map editor and the online madness this game is a 9. Scoring this game for a stand alone 360 
 game and a single player game this game misses that mark. Perhaps some brilliant patching would 
 help... but im careful what I wish for after the AutoLauch patch that made FCI even worse for Xbox.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: English_Death
Rating: 6.8
Date: Apr 3, 2006 3:15 pm PT
Review:  Well, I got far cry on the PC when it came out 2 years ago. And boy was I pleased, stunning graphics 
 with great game play.
  
  I was that pleased I played it twice and still have in my collection in pride of place next to 
 BF2, The Doom series and Half Life 2.
  
  I couldn't wait for the 360 version, imagine what the 360 could do with graphics like these???
 
  
  Well I have it now. Oh dear, I thought when I started playing. It's not to say it doesn't look 
 good, it does. Just, I think my expectations may have been to high with all the hype about the 
 power of the 360.
  
  The Ocean. 
  This does look stunning. Beautiful. The way the waves gently roll. The light reflecting across 
 the back of the waves. Even the reflected scenery is great. There is a distance cut off though 
 in the water. On the beach level I got in a boat and drove out to sea watching the reflections, 
 at a point of around 40/50 feet away from the beach the is a sudden cut from high detail reflections 
 (more trees, and bushes) to a lower count. This is quite noticeable if you move back and forwards 
 a couple of feet at the cut point. Thats not to say its bad, just that I havent noticed this 
 kind of thing before in games, however I am sure they are there.
  
  The land.
  Well, Ive gotta say that it does look consoley. If you are used to playing PC games then I think 
 you will understand what I mean. Somehow a little disappointing. There is lots of vegetation and 
 you can hide well. 
  
  The Baddies.
  The look ok. But, thats it. Not stunning, but ok..
  
  The control.
  I find a little tricky. 
 To aim is quite hard with the controller, but I am not sure I am being a little too critical as 
 I am mainly used to a mouse.
  
  A. I.
  This seems ok. They dodge well and are hard to keep track of. The bad guys chase the stones you 
 throw, you would think they get fed up but no you can throw stones all day and get what was that 
 or I must be hearing things etc. 
  
  I have only played Far cry on my TV. So I will play on my HDTV later. If my opinion changes I will 
 let you know.
  
  latest update 02/04/03
  Played all day on my HD plasma. It looks far, far better, but it is still a dissapointment graphically. 
 The game plays ok. Just used the level creator, now that is very good.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: GodsBusy
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 11, 2006 10:54 am PT
Review:  Before I go any further, I just want to say that I think I was expecting too much out of this one, 
 right from the get go. I'm not going to delve too much into the details of the plot/gameplay mechanics 
 - go read the GS review of FCI for the original Xbox, because it is basically the same game - I'm 
 just going to attempt to summarize my experience with the game thus far. 
  
  First of all, I enjoyed the original FCI, but more importantly, I loved the original PC version 
 that kicked the whole thing off, and I guess that's where this game went wrong for me. Now that 
 we're in a generation with CPUs that aren't pitifully underpowered, and GPUs that actually have 
 more ram than my old Pentium Pro, I was expecting to experience something similar to what I experienced 
 when I booted up Far Cry for the first time two years ago, and what I was hit with instead was 
 an Xbox game I'd already played. 
  
  And nowhere was that more true than in the presentation. I own an HDTV, and even on that, the graphics 
 underwhelmed. The water is very pretty looking, with nice animations, and there were some nice 
 added effects, but all in all, it just felt old. The sound was great in 5.1, but not a terrific 
 overhaul (unlike Burnout Revenge, which is one of the loudest, most badass sounding games ever!) 
 The best way to say it is that I was expecting GRAW, and I got THAW.
  
  Now, if by some miracle of circumstance, you haven't played either the original Far Cry or the 
 console follow-up, Instincts, and if you're not really into the tactical gameplay of GRAW, than 
 this is without doubt the best shooter on the 360 - long and exciting single-player, with excellent 
 multi-player to back it up. But if you have played both those games, you should probably get your 
 first-person on with Oblivion, because there is nothing new here. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lost_forgotten
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 30, 2006 7:17 pm PT
Review:  OK, one controls Are not clunky they fell fine, i put my sens on 4 moves fine to me, the warter 
 and tree effects are very very stunning could do with some work with the trees but there still 
 good. ok the online is very bad but so was cod:2 I wonder why GRAW works and FCIP dosen't who knows 
 but i like the single player, i love the visuals and how the water looks stunning A I is good i 
 think bump up the Diffiy and your good to go. i realy like how the Cars and stuff are so detailed 
 not the guns are even better looking, tree look sweet but could be alil better., The Bots you face 
 some are butt ugly but thats ok i like kicking ugly ass., just be patient with the online i was 
 for cod2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bradjust45
Rating: 5.8
Date: Mar 30, 2006 6:56 pm PT
Review:  first there was the one for the PC and i loved the game and i couldnt get enough of it.
  then when i heard FAr cry instincts was coming out for the xbox i was really siked to get this. 
 i also loved this and needed more. the map maker and everything were a lot of fun
  WHEN i heard far cry instincts predator was coing out i coulndt be happier. when i got it u could 
 play the original far cry game in the xbox version but with better graphics? the graphics looked 
 worse on the 360 then on the xbox!!!! also there are many glitches in the game. for example, i 
 got stuck behind some rocks 4 times and u have to restart the mission!!
  but gameplay wise it was overly fun but i really shouldnt have payed 59.99 for it when i could 
 have rented it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FG6
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 30, 2006 6:40 pm PT
Review:  This game is very possibly the best FPS ever made, it has everything 10 vehicles, 20 weapons, map 
 editing, good A. I., Good graphics, and much more. This game is amazing, of course if you have Xbox 
 live. when you fit enough people into a multiplayer game you can have the most amazing game experence 
 ever. I had alot of fun just using some of the weapons, just throwing pipe bombs and molotov cocktails 
 it was amazing, and it never gets boring becuase this game has one of the best map editors on the 
 console. Even if you dont have Xbox live this game has 2 chapters of story mode to play through. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jackrm
Rating: 8.3
Date: Mar 30, 2006 1:31 pm PT
Review:  Far Cry for the Xbox 360 is an overall solid game. Unfortunately, the gameplay feels identical 
 to the Xbox version of the game, which was released last fall. The two Single Player games and 
 great Multiplayer Mode makes Far Cry for the Xbox 360 a worthwhile investment.
  
  The first Single Player Mode is Far Cry Instincts, which was released for the Xbox last fall. Basically, 
 everything is identical to the game except for the slightly updated graphics. The second Single 
 Player Mode, Far Cry Evolution, feels exactly the same as the previous story, except the graphics 
 are improved over the Instincts game.
  
  Graphically, Far Cry Instincts Predator is major disappointment. Expectations were high, because 
 the Far Cry series is known for having superb graphics. Unfortunately, most of the textures that 
 were in the Xbox version of Far Cry Instincts made their way onto the Xbox 360 version of this 
 game.
  
  The best part about this game is the Multiplayer. There is an array of multiplayer games, including 
 Deathmatch, and a mode called Predator, where one person has all the powers of the juiced-up predator 
 in the Single Player game, and everyone else has normal human powers.
  
  Far Cry instincts is a decent First Person Shooter for anyone that has an Xbox 360, but there are 
 other games that make Far Cry look dated. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bigbearpimpin
Rating: 5.1
Date: Mar 30, 2006 11:04 am PT
Review:  First things first, CONTROLS! The controls are horrible. When you are trying to aim either the 
 cursor moves way too fast or way too slow. I have tried to fix this by turning down the sensitivity 
 but nothing. Also it feels like when you move the stick it lags about half a second before it responds. 
 That trashes the gameplay because you can not aim during a heated firefight. Aiming will be all 
 over the place. 
  
  The graphics are alright, nothing mind boggling but just alright. The water is nice but thats about 
 it. The gfx remind me of last years gfx for pc, not bad but by todays standards not good. 
  
  AI, oh man... You have two choices here., either the AI sees you and sends in everything in 
 the area to kill you or, the AI doesnt see you. It is very hard to single out one or two solders 
 with out having other soldiers from waaaay down the road join in the fight. AI is just down right 
 retarded. 
  
  The game is alright, its not horrible. But I am regretting jumping on the band wagon and buying 
 it. This is a renter first and foremost and if you like it then buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SleepingSoftly
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 30, 2006 9:34 am PT
Review:  This game is graphically appealing and just plain fun to play. It is two games packaged together, 
 FarCry Instincts, and FarCry Evolution. The price works since its two great games in one solid 
 package. I own the Pc version of FarCry , which I thought was a great game, and now i have even 
 more of the same great thing on the 360. The story is fresh and the controls are smooth. Anyone 
 who calls themself an FPS fan shouldn't pass this game up, and neither should anyone just looking 
 for a well rounded gaming experience. If you are still uncertain then go out and rent FarCry Instincts 
 for the Original Xbox and if you like that game then do yourself a favor and pick this game up. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Slappnuttz
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 30, 2006 9:09 am PT
Review:  I am reading that a lot of people are hating on this game because they do not like the feel of 
 the controls. What most people do not realize is there is a controller sensitivity adjustment that 
 can be made in the menu screen under options. I was a huge fan of the original Instincts on the 
 original Xbox. But, when I started playing Predator last night I was having trouble aiming at people 
 and I was missing almost everyone. I went and adjusted the sensitivity and now the controls rock. 
 The default is set on 5 and I only had to change it to 4 to start rocking out on the multiplayer. 
 Please do your research on these games before you start posting a poor review. I guarantee that 
 you will love this game after you adjust this simple setting.
  
  How do those taste?
  
  Slappnuttz 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DeusExMathias
Rating: 8.3
Date: Oct 6, 2006 10:34 am PT
Review:  I had previously given this game a bad review but had stated that if Ubi came out with a patch 
 that addressed the iffy controls and the super-laggy multiplayer, I would re-review the game &amp; 
 give it a much higher score.
  
  Its fixed! Oh joy of joys! This game is very fun once again. The X1 version of the original was 
 far superior to the initial 360 sequel release until now.
  
  The graphics, while not next-gen, are still very clear and the ability to see 2km or something 
 is very nice. The character models, too, are nothing special, but (and I hate it when I hear people 
 say this) the graphics arent so much important as the gameplay (I hate saying that.)
  This is a great multi-player experience. Now that the lag and the ability to change game options 
 without having to explode the room are fixed, this is a really fun game. The map editor gives this 
 game (almost) infinite re-playability.
  
  I had originally purchased this game when it came out. My clan (Clan LMB  GeezerGamers. com!!!) 
 also picked this up when it came out. Wed played the X1 version of the original and loved it. 
 Within 15 minutes of playing our first multi-player game of the new 360 game, however, we had all 
 ejected the game and most members had traded the game in for something else by the next day. Since 
 the release of the patch there has been a revival, of sorts, as about half the clan has re-purchased 
 the game and started making custom maps again. Thank you, Ubisoft! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bradyboy5
Rating: 8.6
Date: Mar 30, 2006 8:25 am PT
Review:  when i got the game i was amazed by the cover thats how good it feel. with the map editor it just 
 amazing to create your own map and alson the water effects are pretty good multi player is mind 
 blowing. buy it buy it buy it. if u don, t want to buy it thats your problem but this game is just 
 entertaining and fun my best part is the map editor and multi player  
 im loving  
 best of all the series, woth every dollor. yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes 
 yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hyperk7
Rating: 5.7
Date: Mar 30, 2006 7:52 am PT
Review:  The only reson I bought this game was because pc and xbox versions where damm good. But now I find 
 myself playing battlefield 2: MC 360 demo, oh yes its online too. Back to the review, let me make a 
 list of how terrible this game is. The graphics on this game look like the xbox version (except 
 the water rendering is good) the aming is awful you can't even get a head shot because most of the 
 time you'll be aiming with the left stick not with the right (as people call it strafing) the online 
 is worse than call of duty 2. I suggest too just download the battlefield 2 demo because if your 
 looking for next-gen gameplay and graphics your not going to find it with far cry. And an other 
 thing if you want to play the evolution story you got to play the instinct one first so if you 
 passed the xbox version they make you play it all over again.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ddosen
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 29, 2006 11:49 pm PT
Review:  I never played the original on the PC or XBox but given those ratings, I belived the hype! So far 
 the issues are:
  
  - aiming with the controller is extremely difficult - so much so that it doesn't aim well at all.
 
  
  - so-so graphics - I was expecting much more. I have an HDTV and it only looks OK on there - nothing 
 like Halo2. 
  
  - tons of lag in online play.
  
  I feel ripped off! I should have waited for more reviews before buying this one. I'm not sure how 
 anyone in their right mind could give this game a 10.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: abstractreality
Rating: 7.7
Date: Mar 29, 2006 10:18 pm PT
Review:  I must say that I loved the first one on xbox, and the pc version. But this one mad me wishing 
 for so much more. The graphics on the original game were not upped enough to make me want to play 
 all the way through it again. And sadly I didn't get to experience the new levels before I exchanged 
 it for GRAW. Also I feel the control were very clunky in comparison to the xbox version. In my 
 opinion the only saving grace at all is the map editor which was still the greatest I have seen 
 to date. Ubi made a HUGE mistake by making you beat the original to play the game you paid for 
 and that is the main reason for my low score, but it would be a must have if you had not played 
 the original version. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DominicanAG
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 29, 2006 8:47 pm PT
Review:  If you're familiar to this game than you shouldn't even bother reading this review. But if you're 
 new to the whole Far Cry Series than you should read it as for myself I'm new to the whole game. 
 
  
  Graphics
  From the video game footage I've seen this game looks great. When I got a chance to see for myself 
 to see what all the hype was about I was a little let down by it. The game does look good but when 
 comparing it Ghost Recon and Call of Duty 2 this game doesn't surpass those two games that already 
 own as far as graphics are concern. Sure the water waves looks great but besides that the game 
 looks like any current gen game. You don't get the wow that you get from other games that are out 
 on the 360. One things for sure it does capture the Island very well. The setting in the entire 
 game is absolutely the same. I mean don't get me wrong I've enjoy playing the game so far but some 
 of the scene sometimes get repetitive. It looks great but I just haven't been wowed by it that's 
 all. 
  
  Gameplay
  One of the good things about this game is that you are getting two games in 1 which are Far Cry 
 Instincts for the original xbox and Far Cry Evolution which is the sequel to Instincts. So that 
 means you'll have a total of 17 missons on Single player. Maybe I was expecting a little more since 
 it's 2 in one. On Mutliplayer you're allow to bring your own custom made maps which is cool and 
 have 22 multiplayer missions. So you can imagine how much you'll be able to go back to play this 
 game. Also you'll have 3 different levels of difficutly to choose from. 
  
  If you're into FPS and would like a different type of climate like the beach/jungle for a change. 
 Then this game is worth checking out and if you're also a fan of the original Far Cry for the PC 
 than this would be a nice addition to the collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: judgepeter813
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 25, 2006 10:39 am PT
Review:  This game is way better than the pc and xbox versions, in the way of graphics and gameplay elements. 
 (i own all of them) You get the new story Evolution as well as instincts. All i can say about this 
 game is that it's amazing, and fun. This title is worthy of the next generation. You might say 
 that by looking at the pics, that the graphics are bad. They are probably 2x as good as the pc 
 version. This game is a rent for a shooter lover. They put you in the action right from the start 
 and don't stop until you've beaten the game. The other half of this game is multiplayer. The multiplayer 
 is where the game shines 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bphillips2
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 29, 2006 6:00 pm PT
Review:  This game is fun. Copious amounts of insane fun! Multiplayer is feature packed. Action is non-stop 
 and full speed. Graphics are gorgeous - especially in 720p - new 360-based effects are great, the 
 scenery and experience is atmospheric and engrossing. Expect character models to look a little 
 dated (almost disappointing) - character animations are also very limited when compared to CoD2 
 and GRAW - more of an "xbox plus" when it comes to character modeling. Multiplayers can eat a ton 
 of bullets before they go down. Head shots are the only one-shot sniper kills, so no worries if 
 you've grown to hate that about GRAW or CoD2. The controls on vehicles take some getting used to, 
 but not even close to being as bad as The Outfit. Get ready for vehicles (land, sea, and air) , 
 zip lines, jumping, swimming, and animal mayhem. A true run-and-gun multiplayer. Overall, this 
 game is not AS graphically detailed or beautiful as some recent 360 releases, but the fun factor 
 more than makes up for it. See you in the jungle! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rbunnell
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 29, 2006 2:57 pm PT
Review:  This is an excellent game that is well worth the price tag. I have played the PC and original XBOX 
 version and they just don't compare to this. 
  
  First off, there is a huge graphical difference between the 360 version and the other two. Anyone 
 who does not agree with this simply does not have a high definition TV to display the beautiful 
 visuals that this game offers. The audio is great, especially Stephen Dorff's voice acting which 
 makes the PC version embarassing. The value is great because you get two games in one package, 
 pluse multiplayer is pretty fun and let's not forget that you can create your own maps. 
  
  If you want a great FPS that you will be playing for a while, check this one out. The single player 
 campaign is easily going to take you 20-25 hours to complete so that alone is worth the $60.00. 
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: rj1991
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 28, 2006 4:10 pm PT
Review:  The graphics are revoluytionary.
  I love how one can have those super powers. AMAZING!
  The gameplay is immersive, and at the same time it takes stealth, patience, and a cool head to 
 get throught this game. I recommend it to everyone. It is much better than its prequels. 
  
  This is the best game ever made for XBOX 360 is better than the older one
  For XBOX I just 
 started playing and now I cant stop it! Definitively is the best XBOX 360 first person shooter!!
 
  
  The Good- Many improvements over the previous game, amazing graphics, Innovative AI
  
  The Bad- AI notices you too easily, as like the last game, othe rthan that, one of the best Xbox 
 360 games around 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gravycat
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 28, 2006 1:53 pm PT
Review:  This game is one of the best games out for the 360 yet. I am a huge fan of the far cry games and 
 this only makes things better for the far cry fans just like me, this shows off what the xbox 360 
 is made for Great games for just having a good time, It has the same great game play from the previous 
 far cry games with updated graphics, and sound All of the great powers are available from the begging 
 of the game which is pretty cool. But with all that is good about this there are some Miner problems 
 such as, The AI is not that good It's like ubi doesnt care for Great AI. And the Graphics online 
 arnt that great, I don't know why they couldn't fixes this stuff with all the time they had to 
 work on the game.
  But all in all It's a great game that any Far Cry fan would love.
  
  Word. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Legusto
Rating: 9.8
Date: Mar 28, 2006 1:31 pm PT
Review:  This game is simply awesome. It take the original Far Cry Instincts, and adds plenty more gameplay 
 to it. The game looks amazing, so whoever though Instincts looked good will be shocked by how life-like 
 these characters, envirnments, and guns look. The water is the big pretty point, with waves and 
 sand wetting. The new abilities that Jack can use this time around really make you enjoy the game 
 more. The mapmaking and multiplayer have been greatly incrased, allowing for bigger, deadlier maps. 
 The new vehicles add for some new touch, and the new campaign will almost double the first one. 
 This is an awesome FPS that nobody should pass up on. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: markscpu
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 28, 2006 12:26 pm PT
Review:  If you haven't played this game yet and you like 1st person shooters, this is the best FPS since 
 Halo. But nobody cares because they are off playing Oblivion. 
  
  I feel sorry that the developers didn't wait a few months after Oblivion came out to release this 
 game. Its sales are going to suffer severely, even though it is an incredible, fantastic shooter.
 
  
  My recommendation: Take 10 seconds away from Oblivion and get this game too. You will then have 
 the only two games you'll need for the next decade. For that matter, you won't need to waste the 
 money on PS3 when it comes out.
  
  The graphics, sound, and gameplay are superb, arguably better than oblivion. At least rent it, 
 spend this weekend to beat it, then get back to Oblivion.
  
  -Peace out 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
