-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Far Cry 2
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/xbox360/action/farcry2/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Incredible amount of freedom to approach each mission.
 50 square kilometers of visually stunning African landscape.
 Hefty single-player campaign should take at least 30 hours.
 Diverse reward and upgrade systems feed off each other very well.
 Robust map editor on all three versions.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Story does very little with politically-charged setting.
 Traveling for long stretches can become tedious.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Oct 21, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.5
Critic Score: 8.5, 62 Review (s)
User Score: 8.3, 3,111 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Ubisoft
Developer: Ubisoft Montreal
Genre: Modern First-Person...
Date: Oct 21, 2008
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Although you can't say the same for the plot, Far Cry 2's first-person action squeezes every last 
 drop of potential out of the unique African setting. 

  In Far Cry 2's chaotic world of mercenaries, gunrunners, and armed militias, you'll find yourself 
 dropped into a dizzying web of shady clients and paper-thin alliances. All manner of names and 
 faces are introduced during the course of the storyline, but the real star isn't anyone brandishing 
 a smuggled weapon in search of blood diamonds; it's the daunting and awe-inspiring 50-square kilometers 
 of African landscape that make up the game's open-world setting. Aside from providing the opportunity 
 to soak up an amazing sunset, Far Cry 2's free-roaming terrain brilliantly harmonizes with the 
 first-person combat. The diverse landscape and myriad environmental factors work alongside a wide 
 assortment of weaponry to give you tremendous freedom to approach each mission. Combined with solid 
 multiplayer, Far Cry 2's sheer breadth of action provides you with plenty of reason to stay lost 
 in the African wilderness despite an underwhelming plot and the occasional sense of tedium in navigating 
 from one location to another on the gargantuan map.  

           Far Cry 2 is quite the looker.      

  Far Cry 2's story is filled with potential. 
 You're a mercenary working for a client who's sent you to an unnamed African nation engulfed in 
 civil war, and your job is to take out a notorious arms dealer known as "The Jackal." He quickly 
 proves to be an elusive figure, so you'll need to begin working for various warring factions that 
 the Jackal has armed so you can trace the supply line back to your target. The two primary organizations 
 at the heart of all this bloodshed are the militaristic UFLL and the revolutionary APR. You'll 
 spend the bulk of the story working for these two groups, getting to know their power structures, 
 and taking on all of the violent tasks they throw your way. Complicating things is the fact that 
 your character has malaria, which means you'll need to occasionally play nice with the more ragtag 
 Underground, the only group with the medical connections necessary to keep your potentially life-threatening 
 symptoms at bay.  

  Each story mission can be played in multiple ways. There are 12 potential buddies randomly scattered 
 throughout the storyline who you can befriend (nine of whom are available to choose as your silent 
 protagonist) , and they're often keen to tack on their own interests to the quests handed out by 
 the UFLL and APR. Instead of just taking out a target, you have the option to earn extra reputation 
 points by working alongside your buddy to first squeeze any remaining assets from the soon-to-be-deceased. 
 This also earns you the ability to increase your level of companionship with that buddy. It's a 
 neat reward, but it doesn't shed much light on their backgrounds. But that's par for the course; 
 the main story is delivered in such a rushed, quick-and-dirty way that you never feel very involved 
 in the game's overarching conflicts. The plot is less  Blood Diamond  than it is early Grand Theft 
 Auto, a long roster of changing faces that scroll by far too quickly to capitalize on the politically 
 charged setting.  

  Although disappointing for a single-player campaign that could easily drain more than 30 hours 
 of your time, any shortcomings in the plot are mostly forgivable thanks to Far Cry 2's overall 
 structure. The game is organized in a way that provides a daunting amount of freedom to explore, 
 earn currency, and wreak havoc on the game's landscape and its denizens. It's all laid out in a 
 manner typical of sandbox action games. Pulling out your map reveals a collection of icons that 
 signify available missions and points of interest that you can meander toward at your own leisure. 
 Among these are dozens of side missions that you can take on, with various forms of rewards. Delivering 
 transit papers to trapped refugees earns you malaria medication, destroying rival convoys for gun 
 merchants unlocks new weapons for purchase, and performing assassinations for mysterious voices 
 at the other end of your cell phone rewards you with diamonds. You can also rough up militias stationed 
 in small camps and turn their dwellings into your own safe houses. The side missions can feel a 
 bit repetitive when played through in rapid succession, but they offer a great change of tempo 
 when sprinkled throughout the main narrative. But what's most clever is how their differing rewards 
 intermingle so wonderfully with your needs in progressing through the story: Malaria pills keep 
 your HP and stamina up, diamonds buy you new weapons and ability upgrades, and safe houses provide 
 temporary shelter to stock up and save your game.  

           With so much ground to cover, you'll be spending a lot of time driving, boating, running, 
 and swimming.      

  The freedom of choice that goes with selecting which mission you want to perform carries over to 
 how you execute them, and that's where Far Cry 2 really shines. There are a variety of factors 
 that affect the way you approach each mission, from the number of people you need to kill, to the 
 landscape, to the weather and time of day. If your job is to take out a key figure hidden deep 
 within a militia camp in the jungle, you'll do well to take a nap at your safe house until nightfall 
 and silently stalk your prey under the cover of darkness. If it's a windy day and you need to take 
 out a bandit outpost in the dry plains, you can start a fire from far away with a flare gun and 
 let the breeze and arid conditions collude to spread the flames toward their camp, finishing off 
 the survivors with a sniper rifle. Need to clear out a bunch of scattered guards? Why not shoot 
 an oil drum near an ammo stockpile and watch as the bullets erupt in every direction like deadly 
 pieces of popcorn? Of course, you can also get up close and personal with pistols and machine guns, 
 but the moments in which elaborately planned assaults succeed are some of the most gratifying points 
 in the game. The whole process of staging an attack only becomes more intricate and rewarding as 
 you slowly upgrade your safe house into a full-blown armory and unlock new weapon and vehicle abilities -- all 
 done through the gun shops.     

  The sheer variety of weapons plays a big role in your ability to craft a personalized approach 
 to each mission. For every situation, there's a weapon ideally suited to delivering mercenary justice. 
 From the AK-47 to the Molotov cocktail and the remote-detonated improvised explosive device, they 
 all feel like weapons that could easily be plucked from the civil wars of Africa. Furthermore, 
 your weapons will cycle through an authentic level of wear and tear, particularly those picked 
 up from ragtag militiamen; secondhand weapons will show dirt, frequently jam, and eventually break, 
 which means that it's best to buy them from the shop. All of the above makes for a uniquely desperate 
 and makeshift style of combat compared to other first-person shooters.  

           Fire is often your best friend, but not when it's raining or a mission takes you to a 
 dense jungle.      

  If there's one drawback to the combat, it's that it tends to be a little too forgiving after the 
 first few hours of the game. Your health is divided into several individually regenerative bars 
 like Resistance: Fall of Man, but once it gets low, you can inject yourself with a syrette for 
 added health (though if it's really low, you'll first need to perform a slick self-heal such as 
 yanking bullet shells out of your leg or snapping a broken arm back into place) . You can eventually 
 upgrade the amount of ammo and health you have to further tip the odds in your favor, and even 
 have a buddy rescue you whenever you die (though you need to keep an eye on him because he can 
 be permanently killed in a scuffle) . Most of the challenge arrives when you're looking at your 
 map in search of the next mission and then get surprised by a bunch of roadside bandits while you're 
 driving one of the game's numerous run-down SUVs or river boats (which exist alongside hang-gliders, 
 trucks, licensed Jeeps, and dune buggies as the types of vehicles you can operate) . However, there 
 are still very few moments when you don't feel like an everyman caught in a nasty situation, and 
 that sort of improvised payback is what makes Far Cry 2's combat so engrossing.  

  Visually, Far Cry 2 is a stunner. Though not as technically amazing as the jungles of Crysis, Far 
 Cry 2's depiction of the sprawling African wilderness makes up for it with environmental diversity 
 and intimidating scale. Several landscapes are represented here: dense forests, rolling plains, 
 arid deserts, craggy badlands, and even shantytowns and hut villages. You'll see trees swaying, 
 the charred remains of a brush fire, and several forms of wildlife running around. It all looks 
 incredible in the transitional period of the day-night cycle when the sun is falling or rising 
 through the horizon and everything is cast in a warm glow. The game also sounds great, with tribal 
 music accompanying you at all times, from a relaxing ambience in calm situations to a rapidly escalating 
 roar of drums in battle. The voice acting during mission briefings feels strangely hurried (as 
 if it's some trick to squeeze more dialogue onto the disc) , but that's largely offset by excellent 
 enemy banter during combat.  

  Adding to Far Cry 2's value is the 16-person online multiplayer. The gameplay modes on display 
 are nothing terribly special (you'll see variations of Deathmatch, Team Deathmatch, Capture the 
 Flag, and Territories) , but the fighting captures a lot of the appeal of single-player, including 
 vehicles, fire-based weaponry, and a great sense of scale in each map. But what sets the multiplayer 
 apart is that you don't need to settle for the included maps; each version of the game comes with 
 a deep but intuitive map editor capable of letting you create everything from dense urban locales 
 to sprawling forests. And downloading new maps is simply a matter of seeking out featured selections 
 or hitting "download" when a Quick Match search lets you know that you don't have that one yet. 
 Such uninspired gameplay modes are certainly a letdown, but the map editor has great potential 
 to inject loads of lasting appeal into Far Cry 2's online component.  

           The map editor is easy to use, but capable of making great maps.      

  Although the 
 original Far Cry was available only on the PC for the first year and a half of its existence, Far 
 Cry 2 will see an expanded audience with the PC, PlayStation 3, and Xbox 360 versions all available 
 out of the gate. However, its roots are clearly on display when taking in the differences between 
 the three platforms. Far Cry 2 looks best running on a PC, with clearer textures, better foliage, 
 and less pop-in. The console versions also suffer from the occasional loading hitch when you're 
 driving into a highly populated city. Another key difference is that the PC version lets you save 
 anywhere you want, whereas the 360 and PS3 games only let you use predefined save points. However, 
 the latter difference isn't quite as lopsided as the graphical disparity; saving anywhere gives 
 you more room for experimentation in approaching your missions, but the console versions provide 
 a more clearly defined sense of consequence that adds extra tension to the combat. You'll definitely 
 want to go with the PC version if you've got a system capable of approaching the hardware requirements, 
 but the differences aren't so great that you won't have a blast with either console version (which 
 are virtually indistinguishable from one another) .  

  Overall, Far Cry 2 is a game in which you can quite literally get lost for hours at a time. But 
 that feeling of exploration is precisely what makes the game so much fun; your creativity never 
 feels stifled when approaching a mission, and the game's overall structure of side tasks, friends, 
 rewards, and upgrades is a diverse ecosystem rivaling the landscape itself. No matter whether you're 
 a PC fan whose played through the similarly structured Crysis or a console owner new to the world 
 of open-ended first-person shooters, you won't be disappointed by Far Cry 2.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (270 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: chasase
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 15, 2009 7:29 pm PT
Review:  First of all this game is pretty sweet... but it does have some flaws. A thing that annoyed me a 
 lot in this is the gun stays perfectly still when you're looking down the sight of a sniper rifle. 
 Also another bad thing was the story telling. Half the time I don't even know what I'm doing and 
 why I have to. All I know is I have to blow up some stuff, blow up some trucks going around in 
 a circle, or just kill a guy. The driving in this can be annoying too because you run into a couple 
 of guys in a truck while you're traveling a thousand miles to your destination and they just start 
 shooting at you. This happens every couple of minutes so it can get really repetitive. 
  The coolest thing in this was the fire. Its pretty cool how many different ways you can use fire 
 to take down you enemies. One other cool thing... at least to me it is... is when you have to stabilize 
 yourself, when doing so you either pry out a bullet with your knife, stick a pack of lit matches 
 in you arm, crack a wedged bullet out of your elbow, or bite a bullet out of you forearm. The weapons 
 in this are pretty cool too because you can up grade existing ones by either increasing reliability, 
 expanding ammo capacity or increasing damage. There are a variety of weapons from sniper rifles 
 to special weapons like the flamethrower. There should also be a warning because of the addictingness. 
 You will not be playing this in short bursts. 
  If you liked oblivion and call of duty games you should like this a lot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jmeads
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 12, 2009 4:03 am PT
Review:  HATED... i mean HATED FarCry instincts/instincts evolution/instincts predator. lol
  
  This game simply does it right!
  
  Everything in it is above par (except one pet peeve of mine) .
 
  
  It's one of the best shooters out there right now. I wouldn't necessarily consider it THE best 
 but it's up there i guess.
  
  I had ONE pet peeve with this game. It was that the mapping sucks... 
  There is no GPS which 
 would be fine if it wasn't such a big map...
  I had to keep going to my map to make sure i was making the right turns to get to my destination.
 
  It sort of felt like GTA4 without the GPS... there is a marker on the outer edge of the map (until 
 you get close to it) but what roads to take to get to that marker seemed impossible.
  Knowing the direction doesn't do much either because sometimes you have to turn left to go to the 
 destination on the right.
  If you didn't check your map 347821309870 times, you wouldn't know that until it's too late and 
 you have to turn around.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: niches_hugic
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 11, 2009 4:46 pm PT
Review:  I just recently got this game and am loving it so far. I don't have live yet so I can't tell you 
 about the multiplayer other than that it really needs a offline multiplayer. I love how detailed 
 the game can be, the GPS's in every vehicle, the destructible plants is very helpful, one of my 
 all time favorite things is the huge amount of guns in this game every thing from mac 10's to .50 
 sniper rifles to flare guns. Like I said the biggest problem is the lack of an offline multiplayer 
 game especially with the awesome map editor feature. One other very annoying problem with the game 
 is that (at least on my TV) the speech volume is so quite I can't hear them with out turning the 
 volume up loud enough that it blows the roof of next time I fire. I can't wait to get live and 
 check out the multiplayer. Over all this game is worth buying but I would suggest buying it used 
 (mostly because I'm cheap ;-) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mowmoocowcoo
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 7, 2009 12:19 am PT
Review:  As I stated, Farcry 2 has a lot going for it. From the 1st moment you set foot in the game, you 
 are drawn into an incredibly personalized world that feels, more than many games, like you are 
 within the character. It opens with action, and presents enough highlight moments and classic giggles 
 to keep one very entertained. Also, the voice acting from the AI does occasionally give you a satisfactory 
 laugh. The game is solid and extensive, but there are, as I also said, a few downsides. The first 
 and most notable is the AI. It is far from great. They are far too observant, and even with stealth 
 upgrades, they easily see you hiding behind several trees, bushes, and even some solid objects. 
 however, they don't always see you if you are standing right in the open on some rock... huh...
 
  Also, the missions get pretty repetitive, and fire, though interesting, isn't all that helpful. 
 It doesn't spread like it should, and isn't nearly as effective as it could be. 
  But still, the game has enough exciting and fun moments to make up for most of these minor issues. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SephirothTDL
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 6, 2009 8:58 pm PT
Review:  Farcry 2 is an immersive game that will have you playing for hours. Being a sandbox game you will 
 have a huge African landscape to explore. What sticks out the most in Farcry 2 is obviously the 
 visuals; stunning and beautiful. It's one of the best looking games out right now.
  
  If you break it down, the game itself is not long. What can make this game long is going around 
 exploring, doing side missions, and collecting diamonds. You can spend countless hours just exploring, 
 or getting to your objective, but that's not a bad thing.
  
  Farcry 2 has a real open game world where anything is possible. The AI is pretty much unpredictable, 
 although they do pretty stupid things that will only make you laugh. The day and night cycle is 
 also something truly unique in this type of genre.
  
  Expect lots of action, and a compelling story that's not cheesy and brings real world issues into 
 play. I do recommend this to anyone who's a FPS fan.
  
  - Seph 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kevin8se7en
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 30, 2009 1:01 am PT
Review:  I HATED... i mean HATED FarCry instincts/instincts evolution/instincts predator. lol
  
  This game simply does it right!
  
  Everything in it is above par (except one pet peeve of mine) .
 
  
  It's one of the best shooters out there right now. I wouldn't necessarily consider it THE best 
 but it's up there i guess.
  
  I had ONE pet peeve with this game. It was that the mapping sucks... 
  There is no GPS which 
 would be fine if it wasn't such a big map...
  I had to keep going to my map to make sure i was making the right turns to get to my destination.
 
  It sort of felt like GTA4 without the GPS... there is a marker on the outer edge of the map (until 
 you get close to it) but what roads to take to get to that marker seemed impossible.
  Knowing the direction doesn't do much either because sometimes you have to turn left to go to the 
 destination on the right.
  If you didn't check your map 347821309870 times, you wouldn't know that until it's too late and 
 you have to turn around.
  
  I don't really have much to say about it other than that and that it's simply a good game. Definitely 
 worth playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RicForce
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 28, 2009 10:04 am PT
Review:  1) Understand that you will spend hours traveling from point to point throughout Africa. For the 
 most part, reviewers have been very down on this aspect of the game. If you play it, you must learn 
 to embrace it. As it may take you 30 minutes to find the next objective, the experience in getting 
 there is filled with surprises, attacks and places to explore. Not to mention the vast and beautiful 
 African landscape. Just don't rush to the next objective. Go with the knowledge that it's an adventure 
 all in itself just getting there.
  
  2) The game has the most idiotic A. I. that I have ever seen in a FPS. You can shoot the enemy square 
 in the temple from point blank range and they will not flinch. The will also appear right in front 
 of you and never see you as you lazily walk up to them and cut their head off. You never know what 
 they are going to do. You will shoot many enemies several times. Some will die if you breath on 
 them. This aspect of the game really detracts from the overall enjoyment.
  
  I'm still playing.... and I am enjoying the game. It's huge, almost too long. Other reviewers have 
 also said that the game play is repititious. It's not.... at least no more than any other game that 
 only has one locale in which it takes place. The game is exactly what it is supposed to be. A battle 
 inside Africa. 
  
  Take your time, and you should find hours and hours of fierce shooting action. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: greasysteve927
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 26, 2009 8:34 pm PT
Review:  Far Cry 2 is a good game. The combat system is good, I like how you have a health bar instead of 
 regenarating after getting shot twenty times. Healing was also pretty fun. If your health gets 
 really low the screen becomes hazy and there are red flashes on the sides of the screen. Once this 
 happens you press LB and a you will perform an action that is pretty cool, such as jerking your 
 arm to make a bullet squirt out or cracking a limb back into place. The story, however, is quite 
 basic and the game can get repetitive to some people after a while of playing. However if you know 
 how to play this game it won't be boring for a long time. You can approach every situation differently. 
 If you are trying to get through a guard post at night, you can simply go around quietly and they 
 will never know you were there, or you can drive in and run over a few guards then jump out and 
 kill all of them. You can also be stealthy and knife them in the back or snipe them from a distance. The 
 graphics are pretty good and it is nice to see some forests in a shooter. The guns are quite fun 
 to use, such as the flamethrower or sniper, and you can unlock many guns from local arms dealers. 
 It is a great game, but you might want to rent it first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kholdstare61
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 25, 2009 1:15 pm PT
Review:  Far Cry 2 Review (3/25/09)
  
  Pros:
  
  Solid Action- The gunplay and the weapons are solid, and make for some spectacular gunfights. The 
 health system is a mix of both recharging shields and health packs which neither make the game 
 just a quest for the next health pack or make you feel as an invincible super soldier, achieving 
 a good balance. Overall the main gameplay is not bad.
  
  Presentation- Africa is rendered beautifully in this game, definitely one of the best looking games 
 released in 2008. The world is huge and really gives you the feeling that you're trekking across 
 the African savannah. Some of the cutscenes are also amazing to watch, such as taking a piece of 
 shrapnel out of your leg, fixing a dislocated joint, or watching as your buddy rescues you from 
 death. 
  
  Fire- Anything can catch on fire and spread, making the molotovs, the flamethrower, and the flare 
 guns some of the deadliest weapons in the game. And it all looks amazingly pretty.
  
  Cons:
  
  Long and Tedious- Although the action and gameplay is solid, the missions are brutally 
 repetitive and there is not much point to the game once you unlock all of the weapons you want. 
 The main story is touted as being over 25 hours long, but should've been only seven or eight hours.
 
  
  Disappointing and Annoying- Before release this was supposed to be a game where you, the player, 
 take on of the two sides in an ongoing war and affect the outcome. However, that's not the case, 
 as even though you do work for both factions in the game, EVERYONE in the game is against you, 
 and enemies frequently respawn once you leave an area for five seconds. This is disappointing, 
 not to mention annoying later on when you're just trying to drive to a mission area and have to 
 get out of the vehicle every two seconds to fight off enemies who attack.
  
  Multiplayer and the Map Editor- Multiplayer is solid, but can't hold a candle to other similar 
 games such as the Call of Duty series. The map editor is very user-friendly and broad, but can 
 only be used for custom multiplayer maps, which means no user-created single player maps.
  
  Voice Acting- Everyone in the game talk very fast without any pauses between sentences. What 
 a way to destroy most of the presentation.
  
  Malaria- The worst aspect of the game, every once in awhile the game will force you to stop whatever 
 you were doing and do a stupid fetch quest to get some pills so your character doesn't die of malaria. 
 This should have been left out.
  
  
  Overall: C+ (One of the biggest disappointments of 2008, being tedious, repetitive, and in some 
 parts annoying.) 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: 0oMAGIKo0
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 24, 2009 2:19 pm PT
Review:  Yes this game does have a few flaws but.... it also has its major good points!
  The game is based in africa and you play a mercenery (So far so good) your hunting an american 
 arms dealer known as The Jackel. Now this is where it gets interesting... You have malaria..... (this 
 game is possibly one of the most realistic games ever made) To treat your malaria your gonna need 
 some medical drugs and to get them your gonna have to work for them by doing a few side missions. 
 Anyway so in this game your gun can jam after it ages, Your car can break down and the fire on 
 the game is incredibly life like as it spreads through the trees and creates a small bush fire. 
 Your currency is diamonds and seen as this being the first really free roaming far cry game you 
 can use them to buy new weapons from weapon stores around the map. When you first enter the city 
 you are free to choose which faction of the african civil war you want to join... missions include 
 assassination and other fun things but aside from the main story there are a good amount of side 
 missions all over the place. You can make friends with other mercenerys and do missions with them 
 to gain relationships between you and them and if you get knocked down in battle you have a chance 
 of being revived by them as you both fight your way out of the danger zone (Its all quite sweet 
 really =D)
  But dont be fooled as this game is Hard. It is really easy to die if your not keeping your eyes 
 open, i miyself havnt died once on the game yet but from what i know the game gets beyond impossible 
 in some shooting situations where you find yourself pinned down by enemy fire. So there you have 
 it my short summery of far cry 2... (its nothing like farcrys before it in fact its more of a different 
 game as there are no links between them) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: schmellycat
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 22, 2009 1:36 pm PT
Review:  It is very rare that I do a review, but I have been waiting since XBOX 360 first hit the market 
 for a game that was additive, has real replayability, realistic and creative storyline, and above 
 all.... an FPS that really does stand out among the rest. This game has a map maker that blows 
 away any editor I have ever used. The navigation system is not too small, not too large (to the 
 point where I am running around for days to get between objectives - or get ambushed) 
  
  What I really appreciate is the fact that I need to be careful when I am walking on a road, or 
 out in the open. Because UbiSoft did an awesome job with vehicular ambush behavior. I am walking 
 along - all is quiet and then I get the crap scared out of me when I hear a loud sound of a 50 
 cal mounted jeep screech to a halt... or even better.... the jeep runs me over. Sure it sucks, 
 but you learn to be more careful. This fact hightens the gameplay experience and makes for a level 
 a realism in tactics that is almost unheard of when these companies make FPS games.
  
  The characters are all unique. The buddies don't have some cheesy dialolg.. you actually want to 
 listen to what they are saying. When one of the female warrior buddies told my character that she 
 was going to make a surgical strike.... or "just kill them all, I haven't decided yet." ... I just 
 about spit my red bull all over myself it was so funny,
  
  I am not going to give away the ending, but it's original and I appreciate the fact that it is 
 not predictable or in any way "fluffy". It is not anti-climatic, either. It's exactly the type 
 of ending that fits the theme and is a very creative yet subtle way of saying "you have been allowed 
 to get away with much, but here is a friendly reminder of the way karma works in the real world."
 
  
  Finally, what I appreciate the most is the code behind this. Procedurally generated terrain, destructible 
 environments with realistic progressive damage (a fire will spread and have its effect on what 
 it touched depending on which way the wind is blowing) and the best weather system I have ever 
 seen.
  
  So if you don't want those bad buys chasing you down in their jeep, if you see a propane tank sitting 
 close to it.... shoot it and let the fire consume the jeep.
  
  Or just make sure you get ALL the bad guys who happen to be pulling guard duty for that post. More 
 will take their place later, but it will allow you to continue to your objective.
  
  This game deserves nothing less than a 10.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shupey
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 22, 2009 10:17 am PT
Review:  The single player campaign is long. I am sure I have 50-60 hours in it before I finished. The problem 
 is that, while it is long, it never really advances. All the missions feel the same. Go hear, kill 
 this person, get diamonds...... The world is huge and beautiful, but having to drive 10-15 minutes 
 to reach a mission gets really old fast. You will encounter enemies every couple minutes on these 
 roads so I found I did alot of travelling cross country or along railroads.
  It makes me wonder if the people who gave this game a good review actually played through it. I 
 found it a chore to finish it. Multi-player is fun but not as polished as COD4 etc.
  
  As much as I was a fan of the previous Farcrys, I can't recommend buying this one unless it's in 
 the bargain bin.
  
  Pros-beautiful open world
  Cons-terrible voice action, having to hit an enemy 10 times in the head before they go down, repetitive 
 missions, so so multi-player 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamer_Guy_07
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 22, 2009 8:15 am PT
Review:  Story: 8.5/10- You are a mercanary sent to an un-named African nation where you must kill an arms 
 dealer named The Jackal. As you enter town you have a Malaria attack and this comes back through 
 the game. You don't get the Jackal at the beginning but now you must choose a side. Eitherr UFFL 
 or APR and do certain missions for them. The game progresses like this untill its over. I think 
 the story is really good but the missions have nothing to do with the Jackal so it missed the mark.
 
  
  Gameplay: 9.5/10- The gameplay is great and immersive. This game is a sandbox game where you can 
 approach you mission from any angle and finish your mission anyway you please. Need to assinate 
 a guy? Use a bazooka, knife, grenade, flamethrower, wildfire! Anyway you like. Your health is a 
 bar of 5 or so. When you get hurt the bar will go down but if you have syrettes then you can heal 
 your self to full health. When your health gets down to 1 or less bars you can press the heal button 
 and your character will do a quick scene of either fixing a broken bone or pulling out bullets 
 and these are sweet to watch. So you have 1 bar of health and you die, don't worry your buddies 
 that you find throughout the game will come and rescue you. A quick scene where it shows your buddy 
 carries you to safty while killing enemies. You can also do the same for your buddeis but if you 
 don't have syrettes to heal them you can pull out your pistol and shoot them in the head. There 
 are also conquest diamonds and diamonds are the currency in the game. You can use these to but 
 new weapons and upgrades. The map itself is 50 km squared. There are rocky cliffs, forests, rolling 
 hills, dry grass planes, deserts, towns. You get every African climate in this 50 KM squared map. 
 There are veichals you can drive and fly. Jeeps, SUV's, Boats, Hang Gliders, Dune Buggies ect. 
 Another added feature is the fire spreading and the bad weapons. If you have a flamethrower or 
 cause an explosion then the fire will spread around and cause your enemies to be crazy and run 
 into the open. One time i had to blow up a convoy so when the convoy approached i caused a fire 
 on both sides of the road an the wind blew the fire all over the place. This freaked out the driver 
 and made him crash into a tree, i pulled out my RPG and blew him to kingdom come. The other added 
 feature is that weapons can jam or even break so if you have the chance do no pick up a weapon 
 from a dead guy. There is also a day and night system so if you are to assinate a guy i would go 
 at night when some of the guards may be asleep. The only thing i wish for the game is some of the 
 glitches to be patched. For example I was 65% done the game and there is a glitch in the game where 
 your save will get corrupted. This is being fixed in the patch but i have to start al over again. 
 Also I wish there were more enemies in the battles you get in. These small battles don't always 
 cut it. Plus when they put the mission objective on the other side of the map you have to drive 
 10 minutes for a 5 minute mission then drive all the way back for another 10 min! And to stop you 
 from getting bored they put checkpoints where the guards shoot first and ask questions later!. 
 And these checkpoints get replenished 5 minutes after you clear it out. Overall the gameplay is 
 well done!
  
  Sound: 8.5/10- The sound is pretty good. The sound of a sniper shot makes you paranoid because 
 of how they camoflage into the trees. The voice actors for your buddies are dry and monotonous. 
 You can here the animals in the game like monkeys and birds. The guns sound authentic and the fire 
 has that crackly noice. Overall i love the sound effects.
  
  Graphics: 9/10- The graphics are very nice. On the HDTV you can see all the rough edges on everything. 
 Everything has a chunky outline but you can get over that quickly enough when your causeing havoc 
 in the middle of Africa. The shadows in this game are nice and they move to where the sun or light 
 source is located. 
  
  Multiplayer: 8.3/10- YES there is a multiplayer. With such a big singleplayer you wouldnt think 
 that there would be a multiplayer at all and if so you would also think it would be horrible. You 
 would be wrong. YES there is a multiplayer and YES it is very sweet. There is a ranking system 
 like Call Of Duty and different loadouts you can choose. There are 4 or 5 different classes and 
 5 weapons per class. There are about 25 online weapons to choose from. But they also take in the 
 fire physics and healing feature from the singleplayer campaign. There is TDM, DM, CTD (CTF) , and 
 UPRISING. CTD is basically Capture the flag but there are diamonds instead. Uprising is like capture 
 the command spots but only the captains can capture points so people need to protect him. OK so 
 you have a basic multi..... no there isnt just 10 or so levels. There are THOUSANDS of multiplayer 
 levels. THERE is an extisensive map creator where you creat what you want and some creative minds 
 will think of really cool things to do.
  
  Price: 9/10- I bought it for 39.99 a couple months after its release and i am 90% pleased that 
 i bought this game. There are other games i would like to buy before this one but i am really glad 
 i got this one. GREAT BUY!
  
  OVERALL: 8.8/10- AMAZING SINGLEPLAYER with some multiplayer and a sweet MAP CREATOR. This game 
 has almost everything. Great buy for a FPS fan.
  
  XBOX GT: SLUIS717 
::::::

::::::
UserName: soggywaffleman
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 19, 2009 12:20 pm PT
Review:  Far Cry 2 has left no room for the sci-fi mutant stuff of its origin, and it is not looking back. 
 Far Cry 2 is in no way linked to Far Cry story or setting wise at all, so if that's what u wer 
 hoping for your going to be a little dissapointed. However Far Cry 2 more then makes up for it, 
 with an incredible setting, a huge map, stunning realism, and above all this game is just fun.
 
  
  So the story is basically ur a mercenary charged with killing an arms dealer, but that doesn't 
 go to well so u end up working for factions for getting leads on ur target. The format is basically 
 mission after mission with no real story progression, just briefings. Now the story wasn't particularly 
 good but I found the ending to be quite a surprise and pretty good. It kind of make sense that 
 the story isn't the focus, u being a mercenary and all and just being in it for the money, but 
 that doesn't quite cut it as an excuse.
  
  So let's just get it out of the way, this game looks freaking awesome, the map is unbelievably 
 diverse, and gorgeous. Virtually no frame rate drops at all, despite having lots of stuff going 
 on at all times. More impressive is the lack of loading, the only time there is any loading is 
 wen u boot up the game, take the bus (which is essentially just a fast travel to specific locations) 
 and a little wen u sleep. Never between missions, in the game, not even to enter a building or 
 town. 
  
  So when I was playing this game I starting thinking about Assassin's Creed. This is because they 
 both have that huge sense of freedom, in doing what ever and whenever, end this feeling is greatly 
 increased in Far Cry 2. You can definately play this as a stealth game, or as an action game, u 
 can attack in broad day light, or under cover of darkness. You can choose from a large variety 
 of weapons, making it easy to find exactly what you need for each mission. The combat is great, 
 you really get a nice feeling of intensity, in a way that if your not constantly on the fly, the 
 A. I. will take total advantage of that and will make short work of you. Speaking of which the unscripted 
 A. I. is superb, they will act very differently and accordingly to your different tactics. This 
 makes every confrontation unique, despite so many. Now the only strike against this far cry 2 game 
 play wise will definately be the amount of traveling u do. This map is huge so navigating it can 
 sometimes be a chore, not to say it's particularly difficult thanx to ur spectacular map. But unfortunately 
 if ur pressed for time and only have a little while to chill b4 going to work, or class or w/e 
 Far Cry 2 can sometimes b a nuisance because of how long it can take to go from one task to another. 
 Something worth mentioning is far cry's health system. You have a health meter that you refill 
 with shots of adrenaline, which work as health packs. However if your health bar gets low enough 
 it will start to rapidly decrease and in order to gain health u have to heal urself, there are 
 a ton of different animations which range from taking out bullets, putting out fires that r on 
 ur arms and legs, snapping in joints, pulling out shrapnel and more. And they are all awesome, 
 i actually found myself taking down mi health just so i could see the animations, they are gritty 
 and just spectacular. 
  
  The multiplayer in Far Cry 2 is also a blast, it might not match up to the online juggernauts COD5, 
 and Halo, but it is still fun for fans of the single player. It works like a stripped down version 
 of COD4 with the experience, u gain diamonds through experience and spend diamonds on classes to 
 get better weapons. The map making system is incredibly deep, and while some use it better then 
 others it as anything you'll ever need if ur in to putting ur creativity to it's test
  
  So unless story is a must have, there is really no reason to not get this game, even if realistic 
 shooters such at this, bore u, Play Far Cry 2 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GrieVeR_FoReVeR
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 17, 2009 6:39 pm PT
Review:  Far Cry 2 is a sandbox FPS game set in Africa. The game is wholly open-ended, meaning you will 
 have the freedom to do whatever you want in the game. The game is widely known for its realism, 
 map editor and 50 squares kilometer of gameplay area.
  
  The plot of the game is average, nothing outstanding. You are hired by someone to Africa to take 
 out an arms dealer called The Jackal. Two factions: United Front for Liberation and Labour and 
 Alliance Popular Resistance are currently vying for control of the country by that time, forcing 
 many people wanted to leave the country but are unable. You choose between 12 different characters 
 of different look, nation and back story.
  
  The other characters whom you do not choose to play as will become your buddies in the game. Your 
 buddies will provide you with alternative ways to complete a main mission. Besides that, they will 
 also come to your aid and revive you when you are downed in a gunfight, and kill the remaining 
 enemies. Similarly, your buddies will also need your help when they are wounded, you can choose 
 to inject them with a syrette, or eliminate them.
  
  You will be receiving a variety of missions in the game, such as destroying a convoy, delivering 
 transit papers to trapped refugees, eliminate someone and blowing things up. Doing the main missions 
 and the cellular tower missions will earn you diamonds to buy new weapons. Delivering transit papers 
 earns you malaria pills to recover from malaria. Completing the convoy missions allows access to 
 newer weapons. While completing a buddy mission will earn you reputation. There will be many safe 
 houses in the game for you to unlock to save your game, initiate buddy rescue and rearm yourself.
 
  
  There are many ways for you to complete your mission. The time, weather and landscape will affect 
 how you would want complete the mission. For example: It is currently raining in the night, a stealthy 
 approach would be effective. You can wield 3 weapons at the same time: primary, secondary and special. 
 There are a variety of weapons for you to wield in the game: AK-47, Molotov, IED, Grenade Launcher, 
 Dart Rifle......
  
  Far Cry 2 is the most realistic game I have ever seen, the flames spread according to the wind, 
 weapons will jam, bullets shoot through walls, and realistic AI. With the Flamethrower, mostly 
 everything in the game can be burned. In the game, you use syrettes to restore your health. But, 
 if your HP gets really low, you will to perform self-heal before using a syrette. The moves you 
 use to self-heal are many, cool and realistic. While traveling to your destination, you will be 
 using your map very often to check guard posts, which is seriously annoying. The way the AI reacts 
 is pretty realistic. Instead of just walking around, they will smoke, have a chat, sit down, sight-seeing 
 and even sleep. While they are attacked, they will quickly run for cover, will often try to flank 
 you. If they are incapacitated, they will call for the help of their teammates or helplessly rush 
 for cover. 
  
  The graphics of the game is impressive, the lighting, the shadows and even the way things blow 
 up. If you shot at the branch of a tree or a fire catches it, the branch will fall down. The game's 
 musics is nice to hear and always fit the theme. While the voice acting is great, everyone sounded 
 like how they should be.
  
  I won't be telling anything about the multiplayer as I have yet play it, and won't be doing so 
 in the future. Although the gameplay area is around 50 square kilometers, traveling can be really 
 tedious. This game is also famous for its repetitiveness, after clearing guard post, try walk away 
 500 meter and come back, by this time the guard post should have re-spawned the enemies. Although 
 AI is intelligent, sometimes they can be very stupid and die for no reason. In addition, there 
 is also a major glitch in the game, around 50% your game saves have a chance of being corrupted. 
 Though I have just encountered this problem once only.
  
  Far Cry 2 is lasted me for about 40 hours+, including all the side missions, but not all the diamonds 
 and jackal tapes. So, I would just assume that it will last you for around 50 hours plus. If you 
 are finding a great, sandbox, FPS game that will last you long, then Far Cry 2 is your choice. 
 But if you are just looking for a fun and cool game like GTA 4 or whatever, then look elsewhere.
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: tomtaraz
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 16, 2009 7:08 pm PT
Review:  I bought far cry thinking that it would be awesome. But it wasn't they tried hard to make it good 
 but they failed. The respawning enemies at checkpoints were cool until you killed them and tried 
 to go back past it. Also the stealth suit didn't do anything, enemies could hear the silent weapons 
 and it is practically impossible to sneak past checkpoints without getting shot at. It is cool 
 but annoying when a car runs you over and frustrating buddies which save when you are dieing at 
 random times (for example you get killed and your buddy comes and saves you then 10 minutes later 
 you get killed again and your buddy doesn't save you. This really just frustrates you and makes 
 the game seem less fun than it actually is) . I was disappointed at the storyline especially the 
 ending. The save game would become corrupted for seemingly no reason at all (happened twice to 
 me) . The enemies could snipe with shotguns and machineguns. By the end of the storyline I wanted 
 to end the game as I had become frustrated and bored of it. The map editor on the other hand was 
 quite good and I think could be used in many other games effectively as well. Unfortunately once 
 u made the maps and played online on them you didn't want to play them anymore as the multiplayer 
 was atrociously bad for a number of reasons these were lag, movement and combat didn't feel right 
 and overall it wasn't any fun. Overall it is all right game but I would suggest renting it first 
 before you buy, it can be a lot of fun at times but a frustrating 30 hour game on the other. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dynamix22
Rating: 6
Date: Mar 15, 2009 5:00 am PT
Review:  It's sad. The potential that Far Cry 2 had was huge - a 50sqkm African open world, gunplay, great 
 graphical design and gameplay. Too bad only some of that came true. Yeah, there is a 50sqkm open 
 world, and there's great graphics - but where's all the fun? The game play is horrific. All you 
 do, is complete missions which involve you driving from one place to another, killing a lot of 
 dudes on the way, and repairing your car like 20 times within your journey. The bottom line is, 
 it sucks. The multiplayer and the map editor are nice, so if you want OK multiplayer, and are a 
 creative person - you might want to consider playing this just for the multiplayer. Otherwise, 
 avoid this game. It's pretty, burning stuff is fun, but that's all.
  
  Pros:
  
  It looks nice.
  There's fire, and it's fun to play with.
  Map editor.
  
  Cons:
  
  Terrible, 
 repetitive single player.
  Clunky gunplay, sumtimes.
  No fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Neo-EGOS
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 13, 2009 9:13 pm PT
Review:  The game itself is very impressive: the game play is awesome, the environment is very well designed 
 and it brings the fire propagation, use full when using a flame tower, the story is catching because, 
 it creates a suspense of what is going to happen during the adventure, still, some things are anoying, 
 the map its too big and its annoying when you dont have a car to travel in, it lacs politics and 
 it have the auw ful stereotype that the payments are in diamonds, but they are easier to handle, 
 unlike cash, the buddies will help you during missions to upgrade your safe houses and, the malaria 
 business, can be very whoring because it makes you think: "Do i have malaria pills?!" "What happens 
 when they are over?!" Also you will get very friendly whit a buddy, and when you notice, he/she 
 IS GONE FOREVER. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: st0k3d
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 10, 2009 7:55 pm PT
Review:  Far cry 2 has a great story line and great developers in Ubisoft to make the game but there are 
 a lo of annoyances that can and will annoy you to the point of breaking.
  
  First is the story. I love the idea of picking your malaria infected character at the beginning 
 and heading into Africa. The game does a good job in breaking down objectives and missions until 
 you gradually make it to the end. Its not so much the objectives that annoy me, but the time spent 
 before and after and the driving to each objective.
  
  50 sq miles sounds nice, but when your driving every seven seconds it loses its flavour quickly. 
 The driving mechanics are good, but for me the constant driving everywhere seems to much like chores 
 than anything. The environments and graphics are solid though.
  
  This is what really annoys me though, every half mile or so there is a smal guard post where you 
 can stop, clear it out and then move on or try to drive right through. Driving right though usually 
 will work and the AI will chase you for a while (which will get annoying if your just in a hurry 
 to get to the objective) . The thing I hate is when you kill the 5 or 6 guards there, do your objective 
 and then drive back 10 minutes later and theres 5 or 6 nw guards there. How te heck did new guards 
 did spawn there? Then you have to kill them all again and it just wastes more time. Ubisoft said 
 it was over 20 hours of gameplay. Yes that is true but half is spent driving of clearing guard 
 spots.
  
  A couple other things I found odd is that there are now towns along the roads, only 2 or 3 cities 
 with about 17 people in them and you have to drive back and forth to the cities way to many times 
 to get the objectives.
  
  A couple of thigns that I found good though were the weapons. They each had their own pros and 
 cons and made solid gunplay.
  
  Multiplayer is good, only that the number of people playing this is so low because games like Halo 
 3 and CoD4 and 5 have all the people.
  
  Those were just a few of my thoughts on the game. I did finish the game and I enjoyed playing it, 
 but when I finished, it was kind of a relief finish almost. I want to give Far Cry 2 higher like 
 an 8 or 8.5 but my thoughts of the game kind of enable me from doing that. 
  
  St0k3d 
::::::

::::::
UserName: celtic1962
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 9, 2009 2:19 pm PT
Review:  I was initially interested in Far Cry 2 as I had an enjoyable time with the original Far Cry on 
 the PC several years ago. When I learned that FC2 would not have the sci-fi element of the original 
 I was a bit skeptical but when the reviews came out the more I read the more intrigued I became. 
 So, 30 hours of gameplay later here are my impressions.
  
  GAMEPLAY (8.5) - Far Cry 2 is a FPS in which you are a merc taking assignments from different warring 
 factions in a fictional nation in Africa. You'll find yourself in wide open world similar to Oblivion 
 or GTA. Missions are varied and include objectives such as assassinations, destroying resources, 
 recovering valuable items etc. While some of the objectives may be similar they are set in different 
 locations and each has its own unique challenge. There are many different vehicles available and 
 this is important as FC2 has one of the largest environments I have ever played. The fact is FC2 
 demands a lot of your time is to be spent traveling to your destinations, which may frustrate many 
 gamers but I have to say that the environments are done so incredibly well that I did not find 
 it to be that much of a chore. During your travels you will find safe houses which are very important 
 as they are not only places to save your game but will also contain valuable supplies. Combat is 
 done well as there is a large assortment of weapons to acquire and you can take different approaches 
 to your attacks. You can use silenced weapons for a stealth approach, heavy machine guns and shotguns 
 to blast your way through or various pyrotechnic weapons to set things afire as well as cause deadly 
 explosions. 
  
  GRAPHICS (9.0) - The environments of FC2 are some of the best I've ever seen, almost to the point 
 of being photo-realistic. Most of the environment is interactive as well. Wind rustles the high 
 grass, and will rapidly spread any fire in the direction it's blowing. Rain pours down, the tree 
 branches bend individually and can be shot or burnt. Most buildings are destructible as well. This 
 is the type of game where you occasionally just stop and look around, appreciating the amazing 
 surroundings that vary from jungle to grasslands to deserts to war-torn towns. The characters are 
 very detailed and move quite naturally.
  
  SOUND (8.5) - The voice acting, sound effects and music are all excellant. The voices sound authentically 
 African, and the AI responds with intelligent responses during firefights. The weapons all have 
 their own distinctive sound, and the environment is filled with the sounds of birds and insects, 
 the rustling of leaves and rush of flames as it engulfs the landscape. Going along with this is 
 great sounding African music.
  
  VALUE (9.0) This game took me about 30 hours, and there were still many side missions I hadn't 
 attempted. It's true that some of this can be attributed to the traveling but it's still a fact 
 that this game will provide you with a ton of things to do and a huge interactive world in which 
 to do them. The game not only provides different MP modes but also contains a very deep map editor 
 for the gaming community to take advantage of. No question this game will give you your money's 
 worth.
  
  STORY/SUMMARY - As I mentioned you play as a merc in a war torn African nation. The reason you're 
 there is to hunt down the "Jackal", an arms dealer that's been supplying the different factions. 
 By working with the different factions you hope to gain more info on the whereabouts of the Jackal. 
 During your adventure you'll meet up with various "buddies", other mercs that can help you out 
 in different ways if you stay friendly with them. This can include rescues when you've reached 
 near-certain death as well as different options when it comes to accomplishing the main mission. 
 While the story may not be as gripping as some other games have presented, it's still certainly 
 above average for a FPS. In conclusion I would say that if you can get used to the fact that there 
 will always be a journey to get to your destination then you can have quite a rewarding time. Whether 
 you're traveling a dusty road in a jeep or gliding along a river in a boat you will start to feel 
 like you're in Africa, especially for those fortunate enough to play it on a large HDTV. Highly 
 recommended.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: axpbf
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 9, 2009 12:23 pm PT
Review:  The first part of the game is terrifyingly difficult and you wonder if the whole game is going 
 to be a great big "attempt, die, attempt, die" and for a while it is. But after a while you get 
 into the rhythm of the game and a feeling for the kind of combat that suits it best. Which in this 
 case is be as bloody stealthy as possible.
  
  The graphics are at first disappointing. I was expecting Crysis level polish. However when you 
 get to the more open areas the game is nearly stunning, nice water effects, and the scenery, from 
 a distance, looks gorgeous. The models of baddies are detailed enough, however a niggling thing 
 for me is how their bodies loose all animation after death, by that I mean if you shoot them on 
 the floor or run them over they don't move. It's a small thing but something so common place in 
 other games now that I was surprised it wasn't implemented. Talking of missed tricks, one unforgivable 
 floor in this off-road game is the inability of nearly all vehicles to go off-road without getting 
 caught on a rock, or a tree-trunk, rendering them useless. If this stupid mistake was not present 
 then perhaps I would give this game a 9.
  
  The weapons in the game are pretty good, although it didn't take me long to find a load-out that 
 I stuck with for the rest of the game. Weapons bring me neatly onto fire. I was expecting big things 
 in this department, other reviews praised it greatly. Unfortunately, I found it underwhelming and 
 not much more then an alternative way of spooking the baddies without using a grenade. 
  Finally, the pros and cons
  
  pros
   Fun, a good distraction
   Just the rite length before 
 I gave up
   Satisfying missions
  Cons
   Cars can be useless, the hang gliders are less than useless.
   The citizens of this part of 
 Africa are all homicidal maniacs
   A little glitchy
  
  Oh, and the story! I don't normally bother listening to storeys in games so the ending was a little 
 lost on me, but it was interesting. If you're a story buff, anything of significance is few and 
 far between, but it's not awful.
  Righty, so I give this game an 8.5. I'm defiantly looking forward to seeing what the sequel offers. 
 Would I recommend it? It's a surprisingly sleepy game in parts, a very short session can result 
 in little to no combat at all. It's no call of duty. But if you're a patient gamer then yes. Get 
 it.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: GeneralSev
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 8, 2009 6:58 pm PT
Review:  The Sequel to the Amazing FPS Far Cry has finally manifested itself to next gen consoles. Far Cry 
 2 starts off with your choice of Mercenaries, then you get dropped off a cab ending up with Malaria, 
 in seconds later you get to see the Jackal. Chaos starts to rage between two different factions. 
 The APR also known as Alliance Popular Resistance and the UFLL or The United Front of Liberation 
 and Labor are at a Civil War against each other all thanks to The Jackal, The Arms Dealer who armed 
 both factions. When diagnosed with Malaria you find yourself in a place with other Mercenaries 
 ready for action. An Underground Mission can give you the medicine you need for your Malaria. Assassination 
 Mission gives you some nice diamonds for killing your targets. Arms Dealer Mission gives you better 
 and more powerful weapons, upgrades and equipment to play with. There are other sites to explore 
 around Africa, while you're exploring you can find diamonds all around Africa. You'll find some 
 animals as well. You can do a lot of things while fighting in the warzone, fixing a vehicle when 
 its broken, picking up some ammo wherever you can find one, exploring Africa, playing with some 
 cool weapons, killing lots of people, setting the enviroment on fire (one of my many favorites!) 
 and well.... blowing stuff up. In Far Cry 2 there are four weapons you can carry, primary, secondary, 
 special, and a Machete (up close kills) . Unlike other FPS, Far Cry 2 features Weapons Reliability, 
 which can cause even your favorite weapon to degrade overtime. The weapon will alter in looks, 
 jam up during firefights, and then explode in your hands. Never pick up enemy weapons, because 
 they degrade quickly and were already used up in enemy hands. You can play with some new one when 
 you purchased one, then appears in the armory and its all fresh and brand new. When you blow up 
 vehicles the fire will spread around and burn up anything on sight, and its beautiful. When your 
 injured you have healing items called syrettes, there are limited amount of them so use the carefully, 
 but if you run out of health your buddy will appear and save you but your buddy can get shot down 
 and you can save them if you have enough syrettes, if not put your friend out of their misery (warning: 
 when recovering from wounds, the scene will be brutal) . Far Cry 2 also features Day and Night cycles 
 for some interesting action when on a contract. Far Cry 2 is a great FPS with unique features, 
 if you're looking for some bloody, intense, over-the-top Mercenary action with some fireworks, 
 then Far Cry 2 shouldn't be anywhere far away from your Game store. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jarvis100
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 5, 2009 5:43 pm PT
Review:  This game is what a good FPS should be. It is more then a FPS. Fallout 3 is an RPG with guns. Well 
 this is a FPS with RPG elements in the game. You can choose what missions you want to do, and which 
 ways you do them. Which leads to some very innovative battles.
  
  Good
  First of all, the game is just beautiful. Once you start playing you will notice this. The enviornment 
 is one of the main reasons this game is so fun. Too just look around and move through the wilderness 
 of Africa is fun. The AI is also incrediblly smart. Once you start an assault on their posistion, 
 they do not sit there dumbfounded for a few moments before firing. Once you fire the first shot, 
 if they know where you are they are going to fire, and if they dont' know where you are they will 
 hunt for you until they do. They will also start to take sniping positions and try to flank you. 
 They will also hide and take cover, or get in to a vehicle with one of their buddies and chase 
 you down either trying to crush you with the vehicle or shoot you relentlessly. Also, as you complete 
 missions through out the game the safehouses you unlock will begin to improve. Either getting ammo 
 or health or vehicles to wait for you at the safehouse. The game is addicting and you can't help 
 but be immersed within it. Also one of the funnest things about the game is fire. When you unleash 
 fire in this game it will travel with the wind. Leading to some strategic moves for you to make 
 on an enemy base or a group of enemies closing in on your posistion. 
  
  Bad
  This game doesn't have many things bad with it, but one thing that is annoying is the guard posts. 
 There are guard posts scattered through out the wilderness of Africa, and when you come upon them 
 they will kill you and chase you. Once you do clear out a base and "unlock" it, when you pass through 
 it again you will find that new enemies have spawned and will kill you. Leading to some tedious 
 fights through the same bases over and over.
  
  Other then that this game is amazing and is a must play for gamers with a 360, PC, or PS3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Johnydoubt
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 2, 2009 10:22 am PT
Review:  I've played the MP and the campaign and noticed this
  MP- The MP is one of the best Multiplayer I've ever played (or seen) !
  But to me there's only 
 one problem, when you're on the low ground, trying to take over the other teams base, or just trying 
 to move from A to B on a hand glider, there's always the chance of getting sniped on the hand glider 
 or as you are about to take off.
  Also, if your at a lower level, or just have rubbish guns, there's always the possibility of been 
 shot at by a grenade launcher - which usually always means certain death.
  
  Campaign- This is why I didn't give it FULL marks (only 9.5)
  For me, this is what should really 
 be improved, 
  : ( I thought I'd make up a list of bad points : (
  
  = you never know when you're gonna be shot at
  # when you're driving
  # when you take over 
 a safehouse, the next morning, you'll probably be shot at by reinforcements.
  # when you enter a small village
  = you are ALWAYS on you're own when just wondering around, 
 or fighting.
  = you have to travel everywhere by either driving or walking
  # the only way to skip places is by taking the bus
  + the bus only takes you to 5 places (NE, 
 NW, SE, SW & the town
  = you can only have first person view
  = you're weapons can rust.
  
  
  
  
  To be honest with you, I'd stay on MP because campaign is all about the same thing 
 really, KILLING / SHOOTING 
::::::

::::::
UserName: parasiticpest
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 2, 2009 8:15 am PT
Review:  Firstly, I agree with everything Gamespot wrote in terms of gamplay, graphics, etc. I think the 
 engine is truly amazing, and the open-world gameplay with lots of options for how to tackle missions 
 really made it addicting to play. I enjoyed every minute of the game, and I'm actually one of those 
 people who seldom finish games so beating this means something from me. 
  
  Unfortunately, one thing really stuck out in a bad way. The game was so realistic from the get-go, 
 taking extra pains to make sure that the characters moved properly, that the animations and plot 
 seemed at least B-movie level, that it was very jarring to suspend belief in strange moments. For 
 example, why are all the cars just sitting out there in front of bus stops, etc. and no one seems 
 to bat an eyelid when you steal them? It's like anything and everything's just sitting there for 
 you to take. Or how about how "fixing" cars is simply a matter of getting out and twisting your 
 wrench a couple times? 
  
  Of course, gamespot also pointed out that the enemies in this game, whether they're on your faction 
 or not, all shoot on sight, no questions asked. As my friend says, "shoot first, shoot some more, 
 then when everybody's dead, ask a few questions." 
  
  Don't get me wrong - I fully understand that there's something called playability - you don't want 
 to emulate real life to the point where it sucks as a game. And maybe this is saying something 
 about how incredibly immersive the game actually is when I notice details like this - I doubt I 
 would have cared in a crappier game to begin with. But the fact remains that these little things 
 actually broke me out of a reverie and reminded me, rather abruptly, that I was playing an action 
 game and was not in Africa.
  
  What would have made this game a 9 would have been a more streamlined way to integrate gameplay 
 mechanics into this realistic "simulation" style shoot-em-up. Integrating little things like civilians 
 and a GTA style system for jacking cars, or other little touches here and there would have made 
 it awesome. To make the game a 10, up the story and make the little side missions connect together 
 and be meaningful, instead of predictable, mundane exercises in pattern recognition (I'm looking 
 at you arms dealer missions) . If the game were not about going from one spot to the other doing 
 random missions, but were more carefully woven together, it'd be an awesome experience. 
  
  Net net - play this game. Enjoy this game. Maybe you'll love it as much as I do. Like I said, the 
 game has to do something right when its little things like these that get to me... I can't wait 
 until Far Cry 3.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: tudyniuz
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 2, 2009 3:24 am PT
Review:  Far Cry 2 even if it's a pretty new game series, it's growing up to becoming a franchise. The first 
 game, amazed us at it's launch. It featured an entire island to explore, new game-play mechanics at 
 the time and fantastic visual design. It quickly became a fan favourite among FPS players and has 
 also become one of those games to witch all other FPS were judged by. Nothing really came close 
 to Far Cry 2.
  Now Far Cry 2 is out. It's a different game, a different fish bait. It doesn't feel like the original 
 but it does seem to be a little special in it's own way. It features a huge map to explore, dozens 
 of enemies and great graphics, but it doesn't even come close to it's predecessor.
  Far Cry 2 takes place in a fictional African state. You get there and receive some information about 
 a certain someone who needs to be killed in order for something to happen. Pretty ordinary stuff 
 for a FPS. The story isn't engaging, it doesn't suck you in or make you wonder what happens next. This 
 is just a standard free world FPS with pretty graphics. The game gives however huge liberty to the 
 player. The map is very big, there are towns around the map connected by roads. You can travel from 
 one place to another by many sorts of transportation. You got walking, driving a car, traveling with 
 a bus, water travel on boats and some crazy aeroplane, which I don't even know how it's called, which 
 basically flies. The map is very big and sometimes it can get really difficult and frustrating to 
 get to one point to another, especially with no fast-travel option, you'll have to stick with these 
 means of transportation. This is one of the bad things in Far Cry 2. The map and the way you use 
 it. This game has most of the things the original had, but they are not as good, and with nothing 
 new this game doesn't succeed.
  The worst part however are the enemies. With this brownish look the game has because of the African 
 landscape makes enemies usually very hard to see, thus making aiming and shooting difficult. Besides 
 that, there are on some junctions some small camps full of enemies, who attack you as soon as they 
 see you. You have no idea why they are attacking you and what you can do to stop them from attacking 
 you. But even worst than this is that even if you kill all the enemies from one of these mini camps, they 
 will respawn and you'll have to kill them again the next time you go by that junction. This get's 
 frustrating and can be a downside for the game, many left Far Cry 2 aside because of this matter.
 
  The good things in Far Cry 2 aren't that many. The graphics are good, but not much compared to other 
 games, games like Resistance 2, Gears of War 2, not to mention the perfect looking Crysis. The original 
 game had the best graphics of it's time. We all hoped this game to have them again, but it doesn't.
 
  The game-play is solid throughout but without many innovations, the game fails as well. Weapons 
 sometimes get jammed and you have to unjam them, but that's about it. The driving is terrible. Fortunately 
 the game has almost no frame-rate drops at all. It looks good and keeps a steady frame-rate.
  The online play is pretty good. Besides the good old modes, there is a map editor which gives this 
 game a chance to live for many years. You can create your own maps, starting from scratch, upload 
 them and play on them. The map editor is a pretty robust tool and works really well. The choices 
 are endless.
  As a Far Cry fan, I have to say I am unhappy with this game. But for those who haven't played the 
 original before, they won't care, so it's a good game. This game is worth buying just for online play 
 and the map editor, but with a single player campaign spawning around 30 hours, this game is a good 
 deal.
  
  My Score 8.2 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Villimax
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 28, 2009 11:50 pm PT
Review:  I could make a huge list of what is good about this game, but I'd much rather say what makes it 
 bad. THe multiplayer is great, but the single player has problems. Not small problems. Big problems.
 
  
  The primary problem is that you have to DRIVE EVERYWHERE. It's tedious, it's boring, I don't want 
 to do it all the time! Not only that, but you're alone like the whole game.
  Your character makes lots of friends, and they literally go on a "buddy" list, but these friends 
 never help you in battle or anything, they just give you "tips" and missions and help you improve 
 your safe houses. I guess. I dunno' what they're talking about with that.
  I can tell you precisely what would have made the campaign more fun: Fast-forward through the driving!
 
  Better yet, it would have been a lot more fun to have teammates, and if the teammates drove to 
 locations for the player, so the player didn't have to constantly check his map and drive all over 
 the place, it would have been a lot nicer, even if he had to watch all the driving, it'd be way 
 less annoying than manually driving there. It'd be more like a break and less like a chore.
  Somebody will give you a mission, and literally you will have to go across the entire map for half 
 of the missions. You can either drive for ten or fifteen minutes (if you don't get lost, run into 
 anything or have to fight anybody along the way, good luck with being that fortunate) , or you can 
 cut off some time by going to the bus station, which instantly takes you to the middle of the map, 
 or the corners of the map. But even then, you have to find a car near the bus station and drive 
 to your objective anyway!
  
  It's certainly extremely realistic, y'know, the map is a part of the world, rather than a magical 
 object. You have to look at the map to tell which roads to use, and every car conveniently comes 
 with a GPS to tell you where things are in the immediate area, but ultimately the GPS isn't useful 
 because they don't show enough of the area so you can't see how to get somewhere (and the GPS doesn't 
 tell you where to go) .
  The game also never remembers what map you were holding, out of three possible maps (immediate 
 area map, local map and whole country map) so if you put the map down, and want to look at it again, 
 you have to press the "map change" button again, which is really inconvenient. Also, the game lets 
 you use a scope to look for ammo and health supplies but I never understood the point. Plus you 
 have to be holding the map, so if you stop looking through the scope so you can get a better view 
 of everything, you get the map in your face so you can't see anything.
  What's extremely realistic is how, if you are looking at your map, which you pretty much have to 
 do CONSTANTLY to not get lost, you can easily crash into objects. Wow. You can just taste the realism. 
 That's real fun, crashing into stuff. At least you can fix vehicles by just turning a wrench like 
 magic.
  It's really neat how realistic the driving and map-checking to get places is, but it's not FUN. 
 It's not even slightly entertaining. It's just annoying.
  You don't have to watch your character sleep for eight hours, you can just fast forward through 
 it. So why can't you fast forward through DRIVING? Why do you have to drive all over the damn place!? 
 You're constantly going back and forth with the driving, the driving is like 9/10ths of the game! 
 And if you lose your car in the middle of nowhere and there aren't any more cars nearby (the player 
 just takes what he please) , tough luck! You're walking it! If you open the map on foot, it gets 
 really in your face so you can't see anything, and you have to walk to see, but then you can't 
 see the map. The only alternative to walking at this point is reloading your last save, and you'll 
 probably want to, because walking is UNBELIEVABLY SLOW compared to driving (just like in real life) 
 and it's an even more gigantic waste of time.
  
  Yeah, you can load your last save to fix it, but that's something that's really annoying, the saves. 
 Players have stuff to do in their day, and if they're dedicating their free time to play games, 
 then they want to play games, not dedicate all of their free time to virtually driving around bored 
 out of their minds, so it's a gigantic waste of time to have to constantly drive everywhere, and 
 it's really annoying how YOU have to drive, you can't make an AI drive or something, and you can't 
 fast-forward through it, but then, on top of all that, you can only save in certain places! You 
 save when beating an objective, or when finding a save point, and those things are only in certain 
 areas. So you might spend like 30 minutes driving around just to get some place, talking to people, 
 and crap, and then suddenly, YOU DIE. Yeah, that means you have to do all of that crap ALL OVER 
 AGAIN because you weren't constantly going way out of your way to get to save points! If you're 
 in the middle of nowhere, you'd better find a safe house so you can save because you're going to 
 have to fight through a million guard posts before you can get to a town.
  
  I could probably complain about the driving and its constant problems forever. And I might! The 
 game itself is good, but the driving is a huge problem.
  There are other problems, too. Like I said, you're alone all the time. There's no co-op mode, you're 
 the only person going around on these fabulous adventures. What's worse is, unless you're in town, 
 there's not a single friendly person outside! Everybody you run into wants to kill you! There's 
 hardly anyone in town, either, everyone just hangs around inside, only soldiers walk around outside.
 
  The soldiers won't shoot you in town, because all of the towns have a ceasefire, but even then, 
 the soldiers have these places where they'll kill you if you enter them, but these places are really 
 small and just have diamonds in them so if you're willing to go on a killing spree you can get 
 the diamonds, but an endless horde of enemies will attack you and they seem to do EXTRA damage. 
 Even if you make one faction mad, the OTHER faction will attack you! There is literally like no 
 difference between them. I'm not sure how you're supposed to get those diamonds, really.
  Otherwise, soldiers leave you alone in town, but if soldiers catch you outside of town, they'll 
 go on a manhunt for you, they want you to die so bad. They don't even know you! They're easy to 
 dispose of, but it's really annoying that you're by yourself and the only people you run into are 
 hostiles. There aren't even any animals anywhere. I found that to be really weird. I never wanted 
 to swim because I figured it'd be full of various beasties or something, but no, go ahead and swim, 
 ain't nothin' in there at all.
  Actually, one time I saw a gazelle out in the middle of nowhere. Yeah. One time. One gazelle. This 
 place is really bustling with life.
  Then I accidentally ran it over and it died horribly. All the gazelle in the area are probably 
 extinct now. In fact I probably wiped out the entire animal population.
  
  I mentioned "buddies". Buddies don't do anything useful, they just give you tips on how to do a 
 mission, or they give you missions way across the freaking map. Yeah, way across the freaking map, 
 and then, you have to drive ALL THE WAY BACK! Thank you, Far Cry 2, for being so fun. I've always 
 wanted a tedious driving simulation. Dream come true.
  Actually, what I've always wanted is a first person shooter set in Africa, and when I heard about 
 Far Cry 2 being set in Africa with free-roaming and a war going on, I thought, that has to be the 
 best idea for a video game I've ever heard. TOO BAD YOU JUST DRIVE THE WHOLE TIME AND THERE'S NO 
 WAR.
  
  Some buddies will save you when you die. These buddies are the cool buddies. When you run out of 
 health- I got ran over suddenly and instantly died when I got saved- the buddy will appear and 
 in a very cinematic scene it'll show him drag you away as he fires his gun at your enemies (he 
 seems to randomly switch guns during the whole process) . When he's dragged you to a safe place 
 (not far from the battle) , he hands you a gun, tells you how many enemies he thinks are left, and 
 urges you to get on your feet and start fighting. It's really awesome, because, when I first heard 
 about buddies saving the player, I imagined them just taking him to a safe house. But instead, 
 the buddy brings him back to good health in the immediate area and then helps the player finish 
 off the enemies. It's rad.
  But then, once the enemies are all gone, the buddy just patrols around the area. He doesn't leave 
 and he doesn't even follow the player. He just patrols about. You can drive up next to the buddy 
 with a jeep, but he won't get in. Which is surprising, because you can be twenty feet from an enemy, 
 but they'll still get in a jeep to cover the distance between you and them.
  Make sure you don't TOUCH your buddy with your jeep because it might instantly kill him no matter 
 what speed you're going. More on the jeep thing in the multiplayer section.
  So all you can do is just leave. The whole being saved thing is really awesome until the fight 
 is over, then the game goes back to sucking. To make it so that your buddy can rescue you again, 
 you just have to go to a safe house to meet him.
  One time, after the buddy asked "You need some help?" and it said he was rescue-ready, I was able 
 to press Y on him. When I pressed Y, he said, "You got it, I stick close by," but then he just 
 stayed in the safe house. I assumed this was some way to make him follow me, but instead it looks 
 like it didn't do anything. I couldn't press Y again, either. Lame.
  
  What's really stupid is, if your buddy goes down, you can save them. Well, that's not the stupid 
 part. The stupid part is that you can save them, or, if you don't have enough syrettes (those are 
 the things you use to heal) , or if you just don't feel like using a syrette, you can either "leave 
 them to their fate" by pressing Y, or you can literally pull out your gun and kill them to "end 
 their pain".
  What?
  WHAT!??!?!?!
  Why can't you just CARRY them!? Why can't you put them in a car and drive back to town or some 
 other place where you can get medical suppies!!?!??! You do enough freaking driving in this stupid 
 game, it seems like driving your friend to get medical attention would make perfect sense, and 
 it definitely makes a thousand time more sense than KILLING THEM! I mean, what if you generally 
 want to save them, but don't have syrettes? Then that's it? They just die? Do you have time to 
 DRIVE FOR YOUR LIFE to the nearest medical cache abd hopefully save them? You have to load a game 
 where they're alive and bring more medical supplies next time, or just keep playing the rest of 
 the game without them? WTF is the point?
  
  Anyway, these buddies would have been way more entertaining, and the convoluted revival system 
 would have been a lot more useful, if they went with you to do things. The battles would be ten 
 times more exciting if they were on a slightly larger scale, y'know, instead of having the player 
 fight like 12 guys by himself, have the player and some buddies fight 30 guys.
  Sometimes, when the player ACTUALLY gets to fight, he'll take on a whole village by himself, the 
 village miraculously being occupied solely by enemy soldiers, just an unstoppable one-man army. 
 And plot-wise, nobody notices how much of a non-stop killing machine you are, like in most games 
 where you take on the whole world by yourself. I'd rather die really easily and have a team than 
 be one lone unstoppable guy. But I wouldn't want to die really easily and have no team, which is 
 what you get if you crank up the difficulty.
  Not only would buddies be fun to have in fights, but like I said, they could also drive places. 
 Having to drive everywhere wouldn't be a bother at all if SOMEONE ELSE could do it, but no, the 
 player has to constantly look down at his map so he knows where he's going, and he has to do all 
 the driving. It's really annoying.
  Also, the game is full of jeeps that have machine guns mounted on the back. You see the AI driving 
 around all the time, a man in the driver's seat and another man on the machine gun. These guys 
 are all over the place and they like to shoot at you, by the way. They're amazingly ineffective. 
 They're usually just free jeeps for the player to take after he disposes of the two guys riding 
 it.
  But the player, he has to drive by himself. So if he wants to put that machine gun to good use, 
 he has to stop driving and get on the machine gun himself. If an AI were driving, or if an AI were 
 gunning, then the player could actually be mobile while using that thing, which is what they were 
 freaking designed for.
  This is especially awful, because many missions require the player to stop a convoy. Unless the 
 player gets ahead of the convoy and has the right weapons (like a well-aimed RPG) , the convoy can 
 just cruise right past him. Convoys generally consist of two jeeps (which means two drivers and 
 two gunners) , and a big truck that must be destroyed. The excitement of getting a gunner and driving 
 alongside it whilst the gunner shoots the convoy up is really appealing, but in this game, you 
 can't do that. You would have to drive ahead of them and stop, because if you stop near them and 
 get on the machine gun, they'll just drive away.
  Because other AI are driving around all the time, it's not like it would have taken extra work 
 to have the AI drive the player around along the roads to at least get near places. Plus, it'd 
 be more fun to fight with teammates. So, you'd kill two birds with one stone: Get the player and 
 a couple of guys into a vehicle, have the AI drive to locations, then have them all jump out and 
 do a mission together. It'd be a lot more fun and exciting that way, and the player wouldn't have 
 to do any tedious driving.
  
  The other big problem, aside from the constant driving, is the lack of warfare. The two mercenary 
 groups, which look exactly the same, just hang out in towns, like, literally right across from 
 eachother, even though they're bitter enemies. Because they have a ceasefire, they can somehow 
 stand being within 100 feet of their hated foes. The game does start off with a bang, though, because 
 the two groups start fighting suddenly and the player has to escape the area.
  When you get out of the ceasefire zone, you never see these factions clashing. It's just the player, 
 by himself, getting attacked by anyone that sees him. In the beginning of the game, it starts off 
 with a driving sequence where you just ride in the back while a cab driver drives. TOO BAD THERE 
 AREN'T ANY FREAKING CAB DRIVERS TO DRIVE YOU AROUND IN THE REST OF THE GAME. You'd better appreciate 
 RIDING while you still can because later you'll be doing all the driving. Anyway, on this ride, 
 you go by lots of soldiers, and through a checkpoint where the cab driver bribes the soldiers with 
 promises of beer to get through. But, after this whole driving scene, you're suddenly public enemy 
 number one for no reason, and all of the soldiers want to kill you without explanation! If you 
 run into a checkpoint, get ready to kill everybody there. Even after you kill everyone, they just 
 magically come back as soon as you leave, unaware that you had killed them all minutes before. 
 They still shoot at you though so at least there's some continuity THERE.
  What's also magical is that, when one of these guard posts spots you, the game will magically spawn 
 a bunch of vehicles to chase you. I think that you have to be in a vehicle for this to happen, 
 but if the guard post spots you in the vehicle, and you get out of the vehicle to fight the guard 
 post, you will immediately almost be ran over by a car or a jeep. It's really annoying that the 
 game so readily spawns cars to chase you, especially because when you get out of your car, you 
 can be run over by a vehicle that just magically spawned behind you. Literally, they just magically 
 spawn like thirty feet behind you.
  You can do missions for both of the factions, though, so WTF's with the shooting? I haven't gotten 
 far enough to see if either faction ever becomes friendly and stops shooting at you, because I'm 
 too busy complaining about the freaking driving.
  In fact, I can't even tell the difference between them visually. They will literally say that the 
 missions they give you are secret so none of their guys will help you, or know you're working for 
 them, or anything like that. Basically, this is just an excuse to make the game BAD. All of the 
 enemies look the same, so there might as well be just one faction, because you can't tell the difference 
 between them, and they both want to kill you no matter what you do, and they never fight eachother.
 
  
  Also, all of the side missions suck. You have to drive way out of your way just to do something 
 annoying like destroy a convoy and that's it, you don't get any plot advancement so it's just free 
 time down the drain. The main missions aren't way better, but at least the plot keeps moving, and 
 things happen. What's ridiculous is the game literally lies to the player.
  They say something cool is going to happen, like one of your buddies is going to ambush a convoy 
 with you. When you get there, she's wounded, so if you didn't bring syrettes, she has to die unless 
 the game lets you go get syrettes. Plus the convoy is already blown up and there's just a ton of 
 enemies you have to fight, she doesn't help you at all, being wounded. Why did the game wimp out? 
 Why did something else happen? How come I couldn't get there, and then wait for the convoy to get 
 by, and ambush them with her? Why did pre-destined stuff already happen before I got there so I 
 get zero excitement?
  There's another mission where you have to destroy some commandos' equipment. Your buddy tells you 
 that you can redirect the commandos into an ambush, making it easier to destroy their equipment 
 because they're distracted. When I got there, there was no ambush! There were no commandos! I just 
 had to kill a bunch of soldiers by myself, and then blow up a bunch of supplies. The game flat-out 
 lied to me! It even said in the objectives, "Destroying the equipment will be easier because the 
 APR will also be fighting the commandos." It was just me versus everyone, there were no AI fighting 
 any other AI at all! This game is so unbelievably lazy, it just lies to your face about something 
 fun that's going to happen, and then they don't deliver!
  A truck also gets blown up with the equipment, and immediately, my buddy calls me as if she saw 
 it happen, and she goes, "You didn't just blow up a truck, did you? I'm with the APR guys and they're 
 mad about that." Then they start shooting at her so I have to go help. How did anyone know I blew 
 up a truck full of medicine for the APR guys? Who are the freaking APR guys, anyway? Wasn't I just 
 fighting them when I was supposed to be fighting commandos? If my buddy had an agreement with the 
 APR about the ambush, how come she didn't tell them I would be there so they shouldn't shoot at 
 me?
  At least when I got there to help her out, she was ACTUALLY fighting, instead of just being wounded 
 when I got there. Then for no reason she fell over wounded anyway in the middle of the battle, 
 but I couldn't revive her until the battle was over. This game is just ridiculous. When she gets 
 revived, she just sits there and does nothing, like when the buddy who saves you just patrols around 
 the area after he saves you. One time he just sat still and shot at ghosts, leaving me to fight 
 by myself. They don't make it clear the first time that you're supposed to just leave, I keep thinking 
 they'll follow me or something.
  
  It's AMAZING how fast word will travel in this game, the second you do something, someone else 
 will call you and go "I HEARD YOU DID SOMETHING" which should be impossible. Word certainly travels 
 a lot faster than the PLAYER gets to travel.
  Ever played Oblivion or Fallout 3? Once you've visited a place, you never have to walk there again. 
 You can just "fast travel" which is the same as teleporting because the player has to do nothing 
 whatsoever, the only thing that happens is the player is somewhere else and the time changes according 
 to the distance. In this game, not only do you have to cross long distances, but you will have 
 to fight TONS of enemies unless you take massive detours.
  
  Y'know what really doesn't help the driving is you don't get a radio. You better turn on the built-in 
 XBOX 360 music player, or any alternative on your PC, because the car rides are dead quiet, except 
 for the sound of the engine, tires rolling over grass, and the chirp-chirp-chirps of nature. Yeah, 
 that's something you can tap your foot to. But the cab driver in the beginning of the game has 
 a freaking radio in HIS car, and throughout the game, there are radioes all over the place, actually 
 playing some sound, even though it's always some guy giving speeches, as opposed to music, from 
 what I've heard.
  The actual game's soundtrack is pretty good in some situations, but you barely ever hear it. It's 
 usually just background music, a little bit of a tense underscore.
  
  I guess that should cover all of my problems with single player. Let's recap:
  You have to drive 
 everywhere, manually, by yourself, constantly checking the map. No radio, no fast-forwarding, no 
 AI to drive you. There are also enemies all over the place, no friends or neutrals, so if you don't 
 take crazy detours or sneak past the guard posts (which requires getting out and walking anyway) , 
 you have to fight lots of people, and you can't just drive past them because most of the time they 
 will all get in jeeps and chase after you so if you don't outrun them (outrunning them is unlikely 
 because they shoot up your car as you drive away,) they'll catch up, so your best hope is to get 
 out of your car and go hide in a bush. Why do they want to kill you? Why would they chase you to 
 the ends of the Earth??? It's insane. Shouldn't they be fighting a war? Seems like they would have 
 more enemies to worry about than the lone player.
  Another thing that's no fun is you're alone. Fights are more fun with teammates. Not a big problem 
 not having them, though. Teammates would fix the lack of AI driving, but even if they didn't drive, 
 it would still be nice to have them. Also, the player has a phone. It'd be nice to be able to call 
 for a ride or something. Or backup in a fight. All he can do is take incoming calls. Why even have 
 buddies?
  Nobody's around outside, not even animals (though I did see that one gazelle) . Only soldiers are 
 outside when in town, and every soldier outside of town attacks you. There's an explanation for 
 a lack of people: They all left. But it just makes the world lifeless, no animals, no people but 
 soldiers outside of buildings.
  The factions don't fight eachother at all. I've never been driving around and randomly run into 
 a battle between the two sides. Just me versus them. Aren't they at war? Seems like there would 
 be some actual WARFARE in the game but aside from the intro, I haven't seen any at all as far as 
 I've gotten.
  Also, mission objectives just plain lie about when there will be fighting between other people 
 who aren't the player.
  
  Here's something that's unpleasant: When you fire the sniper rifle, you have to zoom back out to 
 pull back the bolt. If you stay zoomed in, you'll be pulling the trigger and nothing will happen. 
 Why doesn't he just chamber another bullet automatically? No matter what, when you zoom out, he's 
 going to pull the bolt back, so forcing you to manually zoom out so he can automatically do something 
 is just pointless.
  
  
  
  The multiplayer is at least really awesome and problem-free, thought that sniper thing carries 
 over, but who cares. There's one REAL, glaring problem with the single player that turns up in 
 multiplayer: If your jeep is moving, AT ALL, it'll kill anybody it touches. You can back up REALLY 
 SLOWLY to pick up a teammate, y'know, get the teammate on the gun mounted on the back of the jeep, 
 but if you back up and he touches the back to try and get on the back, HE DIES. You can be backing 
 up at a speed of one foot per hour and it'll still kill your teammate.
  How can such a problem exist? You'd think that, in a game where you would expect teammates to touch 
 your vehicle, you couldn't accidentally kill them just because you weren't completely motionless. 
 Look at other games like Halo. Your friend can wack his warthog into you and it'll still do zero 
 damage if it's not going extremely fast, making it perfectly safe for him to back up slowly to 
 get closer to you so that you can hop on.
  In fact, in the single player, you can take vehicles into town, but all of the soldiers walking 
 around town are in car-proof areas just so you can't accidentally run them over because they knew 
 they messed up with the car thing, but for some reason still refused to actually fix it.
  ANYWAY
  The multiplayer is cool, aside from the death-touch from jeeps. It's got all the fixings 
 of a decent shooter, y'know, weapons are fun to shoot, enemies go down relatively easily, the engine 
 is nice, there are vehicles (just don't move when people are getting on!) , and the player count 
 is 16. 16 isn't a lot, but it's enough, unlike other games that think it's cool to put a max player 
 count of 16 or 18 on the box, then limit you to 12 players or less in all of the gametypes. Cough 
 cough Halo and Call of Duty.
  You can also revive teammates, which is cool, and what's also cool is, rather than just magically 
 regenerating your health, you have to hide and then press the heal button, which does an animation 
 where your guy takes a bullet out of himself. Once that's done, you're fully healed, but you're 
 defenseless during the animation so you can't heal while people are after you.
  The thing that makes the multiplayer a real winner, on top of its functional gameplay, is the MAP 
 EDITOR. What an amazing thing: It's five billion times better than Halo 3's forge, and I've never 
 seen any other game with anything like it. On the PC, map editors are common for most games, and 
 when you play anything using the Half-Life 1 or Half-Life 2 engine, you're in for millions of billions 
 of custom maps.
  But on consoles, you NEVER get that. Even in the aforementioned Half-Life 2. I think you can make 
 maps on Unreal Tournament 3 for the PS3, but I've never seen any.
  So, Far Cry 2, with its built-in map editor, is REALLY impressive. The map editor is really versatile. 
 Personally, I've never tried to make anything and don't really want to, I've just screwed around 
 to see what it did.
  But the maps I've seen people make are AMAZING. I played on a map recently where EVERYTHING, from 
 the ground to the ceiling, was built from various objects. Then it became apparent to me that this 
 person had literally built a big airplane in the game and turned it into a level. You could even 
 go outside and, even though the big airplane, and the little biplanes below it, were all frozen, 
 it was still really cool to see that the airplane is actually in the air, far above the Earth (probably 
 as far as the game allows) , and below are water and islands.
  I'd seen other user-made maps, but this map in particular showed me that the map maker could literally 
 do ANYTHING.
  You can't bring in your own textures or models, but what you CAN do still allows for limitless 
 possibilities. The map downloads are also extremely small since they never use any new resources.
 
  Of course, not every map you will end up playing on will be good, as many of them are far too 
 open and lack cover, requiring you to do an excessive amount of walking with high chance of being 
 sniped on the way to the enemy.
  Still, most user-made maps are winners, or are at least fun to play on.
  
  The multiplayer 
 is seperated into player and ranked matches, like lots of games. In most games, such a seperation 
 is stupid and pointless, but in this one, they're at least completely different. In ranked matches, 
 you play on the maps that came with the game, and nobody can join in the middle of the game. So, 
 of course, why the hell would you want to play on the ranked matches?
  On the player matches, anyone can join at any time, and you can play user-made matches.
  I actually 
 have no idea what the maps that came with the game even look like. I've just seen lots of user-made 
 maps, but they're all great, so I love to just play the player matches.
  
  It is amazing that this extremely awesome map maker isn't adopted into other games. I can imagine 
 one reason being that game companies couldn't sucker you into paying big bucks for their crappy 
 map packs. Cough cough Halo and Call of Duty. On the PC version of Call of Duty, they didn't even 
 charge for the map packs, just in case you're wondering. Not only because it'd be difficult to 
 do but also with all the free custom maps people can make on the PC version, who would pay for 
 them?
  
  
  
  This lengthy review should cover all the bases on my impression of the game. The single player 
 could have been a lot better, but it's brought down by an empty, lonely world (especially because 
 there's no co-op) , and brought down further still by the unnecessary amount of tedious driving. 
 Plus the enemies never really fight eachother. Teammates would have been awesome too. Not necessary. 
 But awesome.
  The multiplayer is great, because it's plenty functional, and it's made thousands of times better 
 by the map maker. It won't make you forget about your other online first person shooters, but it 
 sets a standard for console games that other games need to meet, but probably won't, especially 
 because Far Cry 2 isn't popular enough. I didn't even know there was a map editor until I actually 
 got the game itself and saw it.
  So, if you like multiplayer games, get it. If you don't, I dunno' how much I could recommend the 
 single player. It has its moments, but the driving is a HUGE turn-off and the action and fighting 
 isn't fun and exciting enough to make up for it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DualDarkscout
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 3, 2009 4:54 pm PT
Review:  There are a good amount of cons in this game but they aren't that bad. Travel times can get a little 
 tireing but once you get to your destinaton, to me it's worth it. It's is very repetitive and can 
 get very boring. This game is also really buggy (lots of glitches) . I have to make saves frequently 
 because I have to make sure the save does'nt get messed up.
  
  There's lots of cool guns and there are lots of upgrades. The multiplayer is pretty much simple 
 and is fun. A nice addition is the mapmaking. There are thousands of stuff to choose from and the 
 map can be huge. The only problems with multiplayer that got me frustrated was
  
  1. the cheap beginner weapons
  
  2. the ability to get banned for no reason
  
  At first, 
 I never won a match unless I was on a team with experienced players. I always got blown away by 
 grenade launchers, the last sniper, light machine guns and other weapons.
  
  Also, sometimes when I get 25 kills and my teamates get 2 or 3 kills I get banned. After that, 
 I feel like I just wasted 15 minutes.
  
  
  
  Those are only two minor problems though. There are many great stuff about this game though.
 
  
  1. great graphics
  2. great gameplay
  3. good long story mode
  4. very addicting
  5. something different
  6. good online multiplayer
  7. map maker
  
  
  After I beat the 
 story mode, the game started to very boring. The multiplayer gets kind of boring at times, but 
 it pays off when you're a high level with cheap weapons. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sullie
Rating: 6.5
Date: Feb 26, 2009 7:44 pm PT
Review:  Basically for me it comes down to te story. Far Cry 2 should be the poster child for games that 
 are very pretty with solid gameplay that also totally lack a story. Basically this game throws 
 mission after mission at you, which at their core are almost all the same. The lack of any sort 
 of solid story makes it difficult to keep caring about moving onto the next bland mission. It also 
 doesn't help that it freezes pretty often. There is nothing more frustrating than driving a long 
 ways only to have the game lock up before you get a chance to save. And for me, online play was 
 a joke. There is just something about the shooter mechanics of the single player that don't really 
 translate very well to multiplayer. Gamespot says the lack of a story is no big deal because the 
 game has such nice graphics but I have to totally agree. Why should I continue to play a game that 
 doesn't even attempt to keep me interested/ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Katiff
Rating: 4.5
Date: Feb 25, 2009 9:02 am PT
Review:  So you go for a drive you come to a town you have to stop fight your way through, kill the badies 
 and then you repair your vehicle and get back on it then drive some more only to have more badies 
 drive up and attack you again so you stop get out of your vehicle, kill them and then fix your 
 vehicle and off you go and then you notice a diamond close by so you stop get out go find it and 
 start driving again and then you come to another check point kill all the guards, repair your vehicle 
 off you go and then another diamond and then a car drives up and attacks you and then another check 
 point.
  
  Over and over and over again like 12 times and you are just trying to get to 1 objective. 
  
 
  It wouldnt be so bad if you killed people at a checkpoint they stay dead but no they respawn so 
 you have to do it over and over again. As far as i was concerned i felt it got pretty tedious pretty 
 darn fast.
  
  At first i was really into it until i saw it was the same thing over and over.... cant stand it! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jainist
Rating: 4
Date: Feb 25, 2009 8:19 am PT
Review:  I can't work this game out - it seems to be one of two types.
  
  Rush In - and try and take out as many opponents as you can but not until you have amred to the 
 teeth and got invicible armour. This is because it takes 4 times as many bullets to kill your enemy 
 as it does you.
  
  Stealthy - not really possible as you cannot see where you are going and all your enemies can see 
 in the dark and through trees and bushes.
  
  If it is meant to be stealthy why can't you peep round corners, blend into your surroundings etc.
 
  
  If you are meant to fight it out why are you so weak.
  
  The fact is to be able to get anywhere you have to be crouched and you then cannot see where you 
 are going because the grass obscures ALL vision within reason. There is no way to use any form 
 of periphal vision as al you can see is a square in front of you. There is no help on screen either 
 to assist you in knowing your surroundings. I think they have tried to make noises in the surrouonding 
 area to help you detect your enemies. FOR GOD SAKE THIS IS A COMPUTER GAME NOT VIRTUAL REALITY 
 THE SOUND COMES FROM THE TV - so this is useless unless you have state of the art surround sound 
 and an IMAX screen.
  
  They'd have been better making this Third Person with an option to switch to first person for aiming. 
 I was advised do things in the dark - OK if you haev night vision or the developers didn't make 
 all the enemies change to the same colour as erm the dark so you can't see them until they're standing 
 over you with the gun barrell flashing.
  
  No Fun, poorly thought out frustrating - don't believe the hype.......... Stick to Fallout 3 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bodeen80
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 23, 2009 9:53 am PT
Review:  The most challenging part about this game was having the patience to finish off the final ten missions 
 or so. Like pretty much all of Ubisoft's games it is incredibly repetitive and you spend most of 
 the game travelling. 
  
  The visuals are breathtaking and the fire and explosions feel incredibly real. It would have been 
 nice to be able to climb in this game though. You are constantly at odds with the terrain and in 
 a game where you are on the move all the time this becomes very tedious.
  
  The story becomes failry irrelevant after about the first hour of the game. You're in africa and 
 everyone wants to kill you is really the story here. The malaria thing was interesting and very 
 annoying when a patrol jeep takes you by surprise and you get a sudden jolt of malaria.
  
  This game was very close to being amazing, but I don't think these morons at Ubisoft get what a 
 good game is. Like Assassins Creed this game went on forever, had no variety, and had no reward 
 in the end.
  
  I think this is the end for us Ubisoft. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jtbug
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 18, 2009 10:14 pm PT
Review:  If you wanna play Far Cry 2 you had better like bush-bashing. A lot. You better like getting the 
 compass and map out every five steps and stumbling through the underbrush in the dark. You better 
 like sore feet and smelly boots. You better like off-roading in (mostly slow) vehicles. You better 
 like safehouses (which are amusingly signposted on roads) . You better like Grand Theft Auto. But 
 above all, you better like bush-bashing.
  In FC2 you will find yourself stuck out in the jungle or on the wide savannah without a vehicle 
 or any living soul for as far as the eye can see many times. The only thing left to do is walk, 
 sometimes for miles. The game world is supposedly 50 square kilometres, and this game will make 
 you travel to nearly every corner of it.
  The story isn't a bad one, but I won't go into that. There are conflict diamonds scattered around 
 and good luck to you if you can find all 221 of them (one of the game's most annoying Achievements) . 
 There is help from your handy GPS unit which comes up every time you equip your map in-game, and 
 using it effectively will soon become second nature. There's just so many of them and a lot of 
 them are hard to reach for such a little reward and if you want to upgrade your weapons to something 
 decent you'll need to find a lot of them. 
  The weapons aren't anything special. You'll have three at any given time and will doubtlessly soon 
 discover that a lot of them are useless. Unfortunately, you'll end up using the same three guns 
 throughout the entire game because the rest don't aim well or fire effectively. Old guns jamming 
 in the midst of a firefight can also be infuriating, so you'll want to keep buying and replacing 
 them for new ones from the weapon stores.
  One annoying thing is the omnipotent enemy AI. They'll see in the dark, around corners, through 
 bush and trees, and the promised stealth ability is all but a moot point with such ridiculously 
 all-seeing enemies. Firefights can be intense, but they can also cause frustration if you don't 
 have a Buddy who is 'rescue-ready' to come in and save you when you cop a bullet in the head from 
 a sniper. You'll be saving a lot; at every opportunity in fact, because you don't want to traverse 
 20km to retry a mission every time - particularly for something as trivial as passing through a 
 road checkpoint. (Ah, the dreaded checkpoint. You'll be going out of your way to avoid these. The 
 enemies here are like zombies hungry for your flesh. Dumb and lumbering, but surprisingly good 
 shots, these guys will follow you in a machine-gun-mounted truck and hunt you down for even daring 
 to look at their roadblock. If they spot you, you're best off trying to eliminate them all because 
 you'll have almost no chance at outrunning them on the road, even if you have a faster vehicle.)
 
  On the plus side, the game is huge. Missions aren't varied but they are saitsfying to pull off. 
 All (and I do mean all) of the missions are of the "Drive here, shoot guys" variety, but you'll 
 have some fun doing it for the diamonds, which is the game's currency, so you can upgrade weapons 
 and health packs.
  Far Cry 2 is one of the best-looking games around. The world in it is staggeringly beautiful. The 
 much talked-about fire effects are probably the most realistic ever in a video game, and the water, 
 sunsets and plains make for an authentically recreated world. The sheer ambience is stunning. Hopping 
 in a sampan boat and driving downriver can be a nice chance to unwind after tense gun battles.
 
  There's so much to explore in this game it would be a shame to miss it because of the little problems 
 featured in the gameplay. And that's just it: the complaints are little compared to the sheer scale 
 of the single player campaign. Even the multiplayer is pretty solid. I've had some fun there in 
 ranked matches. Dive into the cool waters of an African stream and resurface to watch the sunset, 
 or fly over the landscape in a hang-glider looking for diamond briefcases. If you like adventure 
 games and FPS you should get something out of Far Cry 2.
  But you better like bush-bashing.
  
  (jtbug doesn't review games unless he has finished them) 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bazwilliams
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 12, 2009 2:41 am PT
Review:  I started playing this game thoroughly enjoying every minute, the controls are good and I liked 
 the on screen notifications on where you are being shot from, this quickly became an instinctive 
 indicator. 
  
  I thoroughly enjoyed the look and atmosphere of the jungle, the ambient noise and music added to 
 the feel of the game to help make it very immersive. The graphics and dynamics were fun to use 
 and I particularly liked the use of wind and fire. The buddy system was quite useful as it gave 
 you effectively an extra chance although their helpfulness in shooting the enemy was not so useful. 
 
  
  Unfortunately I found the realism problematic, I quickly tired of killing the same enemies over 
 and over - not through reloading the game, but through traveling through the same enemy checkpoints 
 and having to clear them out again and again. In some cases only traveling a short distance and 
 returning to have rockets fired at me from a hastily reconstructed checkpoint! Later in the game 
 I simply couldn't be bothered clearing a checkpoint and would take my chances of getting shot at 
 and usually made it through fine. 
  
  I liked the weapons, but found it difficult to remember what I'd bought. You are told the name 
 of the weapons in the shop, but in your armory the names don't appear - only an icon which looks 
 very similar to the others. If you buy 3 or 4 weapons in the shop you don't really know which ones 
 are which... 
  
  I found the AI a bit annoying at times too; on one mission I had to rescue my buddy as she'd crashed 
 her plane. On arrival she was absolutely fine and shouting at me to "see to my wounds" (which were 
 also fine) . I couldn't complete the mission until I'd 'rescued' her, but of course couldn't. In 
 the end I had to reload my last save to complete this mission as on the next attempt I found an 
 enemy soldier I had to shoot (who presumably wondered off the first time around) , then mysteriously 
 my previously fine Buddy was now wounded on the ground?!? 
  
  Similarly on one of the underground missions the enemy soldiers wondered off so I couldn't complete 
 that mission without reloading it. 
  
  The story itself seemed too long and drawn out to be interesting, I spent more time having to drive 
 across the wonderfully developed jungle environment than "in the story". The ending was very disappointing 
 and didn't make much sense to me. 
  
  The day after I completed the game, I took it back to the shop and exchanged it for another. 
 
  
  In summary: The developers have created a stunning environment, wonderful dynamics system and some 
 great weapons and effects. Unfortunately, I found the single player game quite poor. 
  
  I didn't try multiplayer as I don't have an Xbox Live Gold account. However, I imagine multiplayer 
 is where Farcry 2 will really shine as it has all the ingredients required! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JamieTallica
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 10, 2009 9:41 am PT
Review:  The game starts with a cinematic jeep ride, you pass through barren plains, past small shacks, 
 and over small streams. You think to yourself "i wonder if i can roam over there later in the game?" 
 the answer, yes you can. You can go absoloutely anywhere on the map, but it is too big. You will 
 find yourself saving your game (from a designated save point) , driving for an hour, then getting 
 killed, only to be reverted back to your save. The save points are too few and far between, and 
 will leave you reeling. You will find yourself playing a mini-game where you have to stop off at 
 every save point on the way to a mission to avoid this, and it can become annoying. The graphics 
 are second to none, and the character models are great, however it is all over shadowed by the 
 frustrating save system, which will probably cause you to stop playing after a while. If you have 
 plenty of patience, and are unemployed, persevere and im sure you will enjoy this game. For all 
 of us who have jobs, and not much spare time, you will find yourself playing something else because 
 it eats up too much time with tedious hunting for save points. Its a shame. Im sure theres a good 
 game in there somewhere. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Soulreavercross
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 8, 2009 7:19 am PT
Review:  Far Cry 2 is a deviation from the typical FPS genre and for the most part, it's quite a unique 
 experience on the Xbox 360 and is worth consideration by anyone who loves FPS and exploration games.
 
  
  The Good: Extremely large landscapes and a long single player campaign, outstanding visuals, a 
 variety of ways to complete missions, addictive and active online modes, excellent and easy to 
 use map editor.
  
  The Bad: Long tedious tracking from point A to B, weak storyline, sometimes stupid AI, unpredictable 
 glitches that severely affect single player gameplay.
  
  When people hear FPS, they think Halo or Call of Duty and expect game to be somewhat similar to 
 their gameplay. The developers of Far Cry 2 decided to approach the genre with an open world giving 
 players the freedom to do whatever they want and complete missions in a variety of ways. Far Cry 
 2 is an evolution for the series and does do a lot of things good while some are disappointing.
 
  
  The visuals in Far Cry 2 are outstanding and the game looks extremely good with great details being 
 placed on the various environments making players feel as if they are actually in the game. The 
 visuals are also assisted by a time of day factor. The game looks different depending on whatever 
 time you play the game (based on the game's own clock) . The visual beauty and details really show 
 when the sun is high and the game is very bright, illuminating everything in spectacular beauty.
 
  
  The game's audio and sound effects are good. The voice acting is okay but very often during real 
 time cut scenes you can hardly hear what characters are saying, even if you're at the closest point 
 to them in the game. It gets kind of annoying. Luckily there are subtitles to help you out. The 
 storyline revolves around politics and sometimes it's absent. The story was poor. Even though there 
 are some plot twists towards the end, it's nothing really surprising. 
  
  Far Cry 2 contains a very lengthy single player campaign. Depending on how you play the game, you 
 can spend well over 40 hours on it especially if you're after all the diamonds and complete all 
 side missions. Far Cry 2's single player is a huge game. It is made up of 2 large maps, each map 
 has 9 smaller maps (and one small map joins the 2 areas) . Don't be deceived by my choice of words, 
 the 'small maps' are actually very large and within each 'small map' are even smaller more detailed 
 maps for some areas. These smaller detailed maps are usually in areas where missions need to be 
 done. In a world this large getting from point A to B can be a very tedious chore especially when 
 there are enemy camps to pass through, uneven topography to cross or no vehicles to drive. There 
 are some bus stations scattered throughout the game, but they are not enough and are far apart. 
 Sometimes when you complete a mission you're left in the open and to get to the next area gets 
 frustrating, other times you complete one part of a mission in one area and the other part is three 
 quarter the entire main map away. It sometimes seems like this game is a chore. Saving progress 
 is always an issue for gamers. This game doesn't contain any auto save or 'save anywhere' feature. 
 Instead you save in Safe houses, special areas and after completing a mission. Luckily safe houses 
 are very numerous in the game (however you need to unlock them first by killing the enemies guarding 
 them)
  
  The controls in Far Cry 2 are just like your standard FPS however there are some marked differences. 
 There is a sprint feature so most of the times you will be walking and you can only sprint for 
 short distances until your character gets tired and starts to see blurred. There is no close melee 
 combat which is a shame because sometimes you'll be up close to enemies and all can do is shoot 
 them. There are a wide variety of weapons in the game separated into 3 classes and you can only 
 carry one of each class and a melee weapon. You will first need to purchase the weapons using diamonds 
 you find through explorations or completing missions. These weapons can be upgraded. Once you purchase 
 the weapons, you'll have an unlimited supply at the armory however weapons are unreliable, they 
 jam and eventually break, so you must change or swap weapons at your armory ever so often. 
  
  You're not alone in the game, as you progress, you'll get buddies. These buddies give you optional 
 missions, help you out on storyline missions and can even rescue you if you die in the game. You 
 can choose to complete missions anyway you like and use any type of strategy. Running in guns blazing 
 isn't always the best thing because you can be easily outnumbered and killed. You'll eventually 
 learn various ways to complete missions depending on your style of gaming
  
  Far Cry 2 was set in Africa however there is little to no wildlife in the game. Zebras, Buffalos 
 and domesticated goats and chickens are not the only wildlife in Africa. There was also no marine 
 wildlife in the swamps, rivers or watering holes, none whatsoever. 
  
  There were some glitches I encountered in the game; hopefully patches will be released to fix them. 
 I've read and heard of worse glitches, but I encountered only one major one. In the Northern area, 
 coming towards the end, when I was close to leaving the area, Mike's Bar was glitched and I could 
 not enter it to get my buddy missions. Eventually I decided to continue with the storyline and 
 left out the buddy missions and as a result I missed out on an achievement. The bar was even glitched 
 in the Southern area, but as I progressed with the storyline, it became accessible again. There 
 were some glitches I encountered online multiple times, however re-spawning usually fixed them. 
 First there was one where I re-spawned without any ammo in any of weapons and I could not even 
 pick up any ammo. There was one where I had no weapons. There was one where the weapon I selected 
 (AK-47) was constantly being swapped out for another (Grenade Launcher) . I know people have encountered 
 more, but these are just what I experienced.
  
  Far Cry 2's editor is detailed, very easy to use, provided almost infinite possibilities to create 
 and almost infinite multiplayer replayability. Far Cry 2's multiplayer was awesome! The online 
 multiplayer however is totally separate from the single player game. Nothing from the single player 
 campaign is carried over to multiplayer. As you progress in the online multiplayer, you get experience 
 based on various things and level up. As you level up, you gain diamonds. These diamonds are used 
 to unlock various weapons depending on your preferred style of gameplay.
  
  Far Cry's online multiplayer has 4 modes, around 15 default maps and infinite user created maps. 
 The four modes are Deathmatch, Team Deathmatch, Capture the Diamond and Uprising. Team Deathmatch, 
 Capture the Diamond and Uprising are all team based. The only solo mode is Deathmatch. Deathmatch 
 is your standard, kill or be killed. Team Deathmatch is one team must kill as much as the opposing 
 team as possible. Capture the diamond is a team must gain control of the opposing team's diamond 
 and drop it at their own base as much as possible. Uprising is you must protect your team captain 
 at any cost as he activates points on the map.
  
  Lastly I'd just like to mention the achievements for those interested in it. Far Cry 2 a mixture 
 of single player and online multiplayer achievements. They are not difficult to get, they are just 
 time consuming. A good bit of the single player achievements can be missed if you rush through 
 the game, however if you complete all missions and side missions in the North before moving onto 
 South and you complete missions with your buddy, you should be just fine. The online achievements 
 are also very time consuming, but none can missed, as long as you dedicate the time, you should 
 be able to get them.
  
  Far Cry 2 is not your typical FPS, however with a solid single player experience and an active, 
 and fun online multiplayer this game is an experience you will not forget.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: monkogamer
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 6, 2009 9:03 am PT
Review:  Like I said, I call this game ambitious for one reason, and that is the immense amount of ground 
 to cover in a single playthrough. I don't really think I'm anywhere near the conclusion of this 
 game, but I'm far enough to make a valid review. 
  Far Cry 2 is a story told many times but never like this. You are a mercenary hired to go kill 
 a weapons dealer in Africa named the Jackel. You proceed to fail this mission after contracting 
 malaria on your way into the country. 
  Far Cry 2's difficulty is derived, not from the challenge of the gun fights, but of the map. While 
 the actual gunfights are full of excitement and challenge, movement throughout the world map is 
 tedious. Sometimes, you will have to cover the entire map, to get to your objective. The bus stations 
 aren't a great help as they only take you to the four corners of the map, and the center town. 
 The good news is that if you fail the objective, you respawn close to the objectives, as autosaves 
 are frequent. The gunplay is fantastic. The only drawback to this, is that if you want the best 
 weapons, you will have to log several hours into completing quests for the weapons dealers. Out 
 of my roughly 15 hours into my playthrough, I'm guessing I've spent at least 7 of those doing weapons 
 dealer quests. 
  Lets talk about the direction in this game. The games tutorial takes 30 minutes to an hour. After 
 the tutorial, you are left with pretty much no objective. I must've covered at least half the map 
 before I realized I should head into the main town and start talking with the warlords. Once I 
 got to the main town, I was randomly strolling through when the Y icon popped up, I pressed it, 
 I entered a building, and got a mission. HOW WAS I SUPPOSED TO FIGURE THAT OUT ON MY OWN!!!????!??! 
 In any case, I'm being far too negative. The gunplay in Far Cry 2 is some of the most realistic 
 to date. Guns degrade, weapons jam and then break. Bullet trajectory can be determined by the wind, 
 and fire spreads somewhat realistically (even in an entirely dry field it will eventually die) .
 
  Far Cry 2 is a fun game with too much ground to cover. While the story is not nearly as convoluted 
 as Far Cry 1's was, it is not very dynamic either. Overall, I'm enjoying this game but not as much 
 as I thought I would. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tomamagic
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 5, 2009 2:06 pm PT
Review:  With so many titles that came out Q4 of 2008, I finally made some time to try out this hyped of 
 game. Far cry was really known for it's beautiful water graphics (at least that's how I remembered 
 the series) so I wanted to give this one a chance. It's an open-ended African setting. There is 
 a storyline, but very forgettable. You can choose from a set of player lists, but one doesn't really 
 get attached the their character. 
  
  The highs for me: Awesome graphics (especially the fire) , sound is merely ok, and lots of exploration 
 if you care about that (although the scenary is pretty much the same) .
  
  The lows for me: Been there, done that kind of gameply. Weapons break on you (jams) . Enemies look 
 all the same, very inconsistant at times (referring to the damage inconsistency) . Multiplayer is 
 ok, not too many modes of play. In the campaign, when you're using a vehicle, you quickly are ambushed 
 by patrolling enemies (frequently, which can be a bit annoying, seems like they respawn all the 
 time) . 
  
  Bottom line: I am glad I rented this game. The very least, I could say that I've played it, but 
 I'll go back to GoW2 and Fallout 3. FC2 is a solid, stable shooter, it just doesn't bring anything 
 quite unique to capture my interests to finish it all the way through. No, not even for achievements. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pelm
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 4, 2009 2:34 pm PT
Review:  We have all played an fps with a storyline where the protagonist is a hero on a personal mission 
 to stop an evil dominating villain from destroying the world, well in this fps that's different 
 the player doesn't just have to be the "hero" the player can be the "villain' as well. Throughout 
 the entire main missions the player has the choice to be good or bad and it's not like every other 
 fps where the player choose's a good or bad choice and nothing happens when the player choose's 
 to be bad or good that choice will have consequences just like in fable 2 and they affect everyone 
 and everything around you as well.
  
  But there's so much depth to everything else in the game. You can unlock new weapons by doing a 
 task for weapons vendors and you can then upgrade them which has been done before but since you 
 can get a huge arsenal of very different types of weapons the idea to upgrade them was to be expected. 
 You have this disease called malaria and you have to literally take pills to stop it that is a 
 interesting and cool idea since after all you are in Africa but there's a problem with this, sometimes 
 you run out of pills by temporarily stopping it that when it does come back you have no more pills 
 to fight it and you end up dying only to wake up to do it all over again which frankly is very 
 annoying. It would have been better and nice if you took the pills and it totally removed it from 
 your body but instead you have to go to the underground to get better pills to continue to fight 
 it until it's gone the idea was there but it wasn't implemented properly. 
  The characters you meet aren't as bad as you might think they do come to your aid if you get taken 
 down which is a nice way from stopping you from been killed and they do actually help you in some 
 of the main missions if you so choose to do things the good way, but that's pretty much all they 
 really do they never travel with you and even though they can help you in some main missions there's 
 other times where your just doing a job for them which is weird if they propose a different way 
 to handle a main mission. They also can die, go missing or be abandoned by you which pretty much 
 mean's you won't be seeing them again anytime soon oh and there outfits are nicely stylized and 
 unique looking.
  The day and night cycle is always a personal favourite of mine but it doesn't just turn day and 
 night the player can actually control when he/she wants it to be day or night by changing or reversing 
 the time of day. Which is always useful but only useful to the player not to anyone or anything 
 else mercs will still try to kill the player late at night or early in the morning. But in spite 
 of this the player can use this to determine how he/she wants to precede against their enemies 
 like if they want to use the shadow of night to silently kill their enemies or just tear them to 
 shreds its entirely up to the player. The vehicles look cool and if they get damaged you can fix 
 them but besides that they can still blow up and they are all still generic looking. Now the environments 
 are a different story they are not only colourful they are also have huge land mass and some even 
 have wooden huts, there's also lakes and rivers that run through the country everywhere which is 
 not only realistic but adds a nice touch to the environments.
  The audio is pretty much in sync and in tune with everything else it sounds very good and helps 
 add the thrill and excitement when travelling or fighting mercs. The voice acting is very realistic 
 and so is the music and the sound of things blowing up and guns shooting. The music sometimes gets 
 quiet then gets loud when you least expect but that's probably because it goes loud or quiet when 
 it's supposed to. The sound of cars starting and moving is uncanny to real cars and so is opening 
 and closing doors. The safe houses all look the same on the outside but look different inside but 
 even so once you see inside you won't be seeing anything more different. It's also nice that you 
 get to unlock safe houses and store your weapons in crates but it's a little weird to do so by 
 killing mercs that have them first. It would have been even better if the player could have bought 
 the safe houses that way the player wouldn't have to kill mercs to have them. The idea to go out 
 into the environments searching and collecting diamonds is interesting and it works and it also 
 works by being paid that way too for awhile but it doesn't work when the player has to scour all 
 over the countryside looking for diamonds one by one and those being the only ways to get diamonds. 
 There should have been more ways to collect diamonds instead of scouring everywhere for them and 
 by being paid them not only is this annoying its tedious and repetitive and it doesn't make getting 
 them anymore not tedious then being paid them.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: PowerTReveiws
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 4, 2009 4:40 am PT
Review:  Farcry games arn't know for amazingly good. But Farcry 2, is just about the biggest improvement 
 in a sequal I've ever seen. Ok, when you write a review for gamespot, you need to enter a classification 
 for the game. I selected "Grows on you" for many reasons. Ok, This happens in the first minute 
 or so of the game so don't accuse me of spoiling anything. So what happens is you get Malaria. 
 Your probaly asking your self something like this: "What! Malaria? How the hell do you make a game 
 where you have Malaria!" Well heres where the "Grows on you" come in. When I first started playing 
 the game, I was very upset and dissipointed that I got Malaria, but later on in 3 hours or so, 
 I was compleatly fine with Malaria. You start to not care and when tour Malaria strikes you know 
 the drill. Just take a pill. The more you play the game, the less you care about Malaria, which 
 can be applied to actually having Malaria. The setting also grows on you. You will want to explore 
 every last bit of Africa. The weapons are cool also. From assault rifles, to a flare gun, Farcry 
 got it all. Its missing no componants of a prefect game. The only thing keeping from getting a 
 10 is the physics engine is a little wierd, and gun fights are easy. I use the word "gun fights" 
 because you will fight compounds of enemies and some will only have guns but others have cars. 
 If there isnt a car your in luck the only real excuse for dying is you get run onver by a car. 
 Its too easy to heal yourself. In conclusion, Farcry too is a good game. If your not into intensity 
 or dont get this game. But if your a fan of the genre this is a must buy. You will like this if 
 your a fan of Mercenaries 2 ( you get a good merc feel in Farcry ) , GTA ( Farcry has a great freeroam 
 ) , and no HUD ( game really has no HUD so if your not into realistic games dont buy this ) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doomwarrior235
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 4, 2009 9:08 pm PT
Review:  When I first stepped into the world of Far Cry 2, I was amazed. One of the first things I told 
 myself was, "is this really on an Xbox 360"? Far Cry not only looks amazing, but it plays amazing. 
 In 2007 when the original Crysis came out, it nearly caused my head to explode, because, it was 
 so amazing. I'm now reliving this with Far Cry 2.
  
  What is the plot of Far Cry 2? Why are you in Africa? Well, in the beggining of the game, you get 
 to pick between a bunch of different mercenaries. The other ones are thrown into the game world, 
 and will pop up at random times in the game. You will build bonds with them, and they will help 
 you. They all help you try to achieve your goal. Anyone guess what that is? To kill the Jackal, 
 an arms dealer who has benn arming these two sides in this conflict in Africa. The two sides are 
 the UFLL and the APR. You except mission from both sides in hopeing to try and get more information 
 about the Jackal. These mission of course will have you running all around a iant map takeing place 
 in Africa. The story in Fr Cry2 is not super interesting, but it is enough to inform you about 
 what is happening.
  
  What type of game is Far Cry 2? It does not have anything to do with the original Far Cry or any 
 of the spin offs. Far Cry 2 is a croos breed between an open world RPG and a first person shooter. 
 You take mission and explore a giant map, but the gamecontrols a lot like a first person shooter. 
 The mission are not super interesting, but how you accomplish them is. Most people will say Far 
 Cry 2 is repetative, and it is a bit. The mission are normally go kill this guy, or blow up this, 
 or steal this. But how you acoomplish them is really interesting and fun. Now lets talk about Oblivion 
 for a second. Now most of the mission in the game involve going through some sort of cave or mine, 
 though there are a lot of mission that don't, most do. NOw imagone if you wnt through that game 
 and only used swords. NOw would that kind of be the same as driving to a camp in Far Cry 2 and 
 just going in there guns blazing. Now I know Oblivion had a fast travle in it, and Far Cry 2 doesn't, 
 But I will talk about that problem later. But would that get a bit repetative. Well I guess it 
 depends who is playing the game, but it would get repetative, but in oblivion, you could try useing 
 stealth or a bow and arrows or magic. You get my point. Far Cry has multiple ways that you can 
 tackle your objectives. You could go in with a shot gun and heavy macine gun and a bunch of mines 
 and just blow the place to heel and kill everyone. Or you could go in with a silenced sub machine 
 gun and pistol, and a dart rifle, and you trusty machete, and avoid every one or take them out 
 silently. Far Cry 2 is about strategy as well as blowing everything up. You get to do a lot of 
 both. Far Cry 2 is a game that you can play many ways, like other open world games should be. Only 
 in Far Cry 2, it is a bit different.
  
  To help you in your mission, you hve plenty of fire arms, and ways to upgrade them, and a handful 
 of vehicles to get you to places. Weapons include assault rifles, sniper rifles, grenade launchers, 
 shot guns, mines, RPG's, pistols, UZI's, flame throwers, etc. Flame Throwers are one of the funnest 
 weapons to use. Judgeing by how the wind is, the fire that you start will burn in that direction. 
 You can use it to burn enemies out of their camps, or just to unleash your inner pyro maniac. The 
 vehicles are cool to. You have jeeps and cars, and boats, and hang gliders, which are all great 
 to use to help your win your batlles and complete your mission. You could drive in on a jeep and 
 use its turret, or silently drop in with your hang glider and eliminate your enemies. There are 
 just so many ways to play this game.
  
  Now with all the options you have, this game would not be hard with out great A. I. The A. I in this 
 game is really good, and better than most games out there. They will flank, jump in vehicles and 
 try to run you over or just gun you down. They will drag wounded away, or try to heal them. The 
 A. I in Far Cry 2 is so hard to predict, because, since the game is open world, they will attack 
 from different locations every time. They will do their best to make sure that you do not survive.
 
  
  Now Far Cry 2's graphics are simple EYE MELTING!!!!!!!!!! Even on the Xbox 360 and PS3, and they 
 lookm even better on a high end PC. Everything from the environment to the weapons look absolutely 
 amazing. The trees and the bushes and grass look amazing swinging back in forth from the wind, 
 and they look good when Far Cry 2's amazing fire effects kick in and set them a blaze. The weapons 
 look amazing, and when the get old, they will start to rust up, jam, and even break. the vehicles 
 look good. The explosions all look amazing, and you will be seeing a lot of them. Character models 
 look pretty good, though they are repeated a bit. There are hardly any pop in textures in this 
 game. Only when a small rock covered in grass might pop up. But if you look at land a distance 
 away, you will see a bunch of trees, and if you zoom in, you will see every blade of grass. When 
 you are injured in Far Cry 2, you either take an injection, or self heal yourself by pulling out 
 a bullet or scrap of metal, or by snapping a broken bone back into place. These animations all 
 look amazing. There is also wildlife in Far Cry, though there are only about three different types 
 of animal, and some massive bugs that will sometimes land on your boat as you are riding down the 
 river, they all look realistic and the act real to.
  
  The sound in this game is really good. A burning fire sounds great, and just the sounds of the 
 world around you sound real. Guns shots and explosions sound down right great. Vehicles sound great 
 when they are driving. The music has the African twist to it and that sounds great. The voice acting 
 is good, though people tend to talk a bit to fast. But is still sounds good. Over all, this is 
 a great sounding game.
  
  Now Far Cry 2 does have its flaws. For one, the game can get a bit repetative, unless you try to 
 do different things, which is the way you probably should play it. Another problem is that giant 
 hill seperate sections of land, and since you can't climb over them, then you just have to go around 
 them. If you kill a bunch of enemies at a guard post, then in five minutes, they will respawn, 
 and that can get a bit annoying. Also, there is no fast travel, so you have to drive every where, 
 unless you take a bus, but there are only five buses on the map, and you can only travel to other 
 nus stations. Also, you can only save at save stations, or right after you complete a mission. 
 So is kind of sucks that you can't save out in the middle of some place, like in most open world 
 games.
  
  If you are not playing the single player, then you can play the multi player, and thankfully, the 
 multi player is fun and deep, unlike other shooters that jst have multi player basically just thrown 
 on. You play multi player, and rank up. As you rank up, you get diamonds, which you can apply to 
 a certain class to get more weapons. There are a ton of maps to play. There are only four modes 
 which are deathmatch, team deathmatch, capture the diamond, and uprising. Uprising is a game were 
 you have a leader, and your leader has to capture a few points on the battlefield, kind of like 
 in a Battlefield game, only that only one person can capture the point. The other players have 
 to protect the player that is the captain. If you are tired of the many maps that they give you 
 in Far Cry 2, then you can use the easy to use, very deep map editor, and create your own maps 
 to play on. There are so many options, that I don't even now where to start. You can cutomize the 
 terrain, and place tons of trees and grass and rivers, and vehicles, and buildings, and even things 
 that just make the environment look good. The map editor will keep you makeing maps for a long 
 time if you get into it. Far Cry 2's multi player is awesome, though it may come a little short 
 compared to Call of Duty, it is still awesome and a lot of fun.
  
  Far Cry 2 is simplely one of the best games to come out this year. Weather you are looking for 
 a great deep single player, of a deep multi player, or a map editor for you to build a bunch of 
 maps and then invite your friends or random people and just play on those, you have to give this 
 game a try. It blew me away, and if you try to play this game a little different every time, and 
 soak in the amazing graphics, and get hooked on the awesome multi player, then you will have a 
 blast playing this game. In my oppinion, Far Cry 2 has raised the bar to a new level for open world 
 action games, and shooter in general, and is one fo the greatest games out there, in my oppinion. 
 This is one game that you simplely have to try! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tomo90
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 3, 2009 12:34 pm PT
Review:  If any gamer is told, 50 Sq Kilometres of free roaming Africa to explore, I'm pretty sure that 
 gamer would drool. I almost did but I have some self-respect and whipped it away! However in short 
 this game is exactly what it says, and that's not always a good thing when it comes to a shooter 
 which takes its pride from realistic play. 
  Visually this game is astounding, in particular the flame effects and shade effects will amaze 
 anyone and just watching the African Savannah grasses sway in the wind is a feast for any gamer's 
 eyes. This is really credited as it was selected as a potential winner for Gamespot's GotY award 
 when it comes to graphics. However as any decent gamer will tell you, it's not all about the graphics 
 and visuals where the majority of my score comes from with this game review. 
  The visuals are defiantly not backed up by game play or the story. The game play as I have said 
 is exactly what they said in the previews. You literally do roam free 50 Sq Kilometres of Africa 
 in a small number of vehicles and this twinned with realism and your car breaking down after being 
 shot about three times within seconds of leaving the safe central area, it results in aggravating 
 play. Having left the safety of the central compound where you receive orders your instantly intercepted 
 by guard posts. Which prove annoying very quickly. Even when they have been 'scouted' and cleared 
 and used for an ammo resupply or for health the enemies respawn. This respawning element feels 
 out of place in a game that's supposed to be realistic. The AI you encounter again at the same 
 post take up the same positions and use the same tactics, which often result in a pursuit in a 
 jeep. These chase often end up with your car breaking down, and it is near impossible to out run 
 the enemy regardless of your car. 
  One thing that can be said for the realism is the way you approach enemies. One thing that I really 
 liked was the ability to start a fire with the flamethrower and if the wind is blowing in the right 
 direction the flames will reach the enemies and torch them out. These large number of ways to approach 
 the enemy guard posts is what saves the gameplay which is often repetitive. The lack of a fast 
 travel system apart from the buses which only go to each corner of the map and considering the 
 vastness of the map doesn't cover much area, is a big failing. This results in repetitive gameplay 
 that becomes frustrating, coupled with your gun breaking and your car breaking down you end up 
 screaming at the screen in frustration. 
  Multiplayer wise the game is solid with no surprises from previous instalments. Once again however 
 Far Cry excels in its map editor which is pure genius. Compared to the FC instinct's map editor 
 this is excellent. There is far more opportunities to create your dream multiplayer map. With the 
 ability to upload your map it increases the enjoyment ten fold, allowing your friends to play a 
 large number of old school game types on your dream map. 
  In conclusion, had Far Cry 2 been given the graphics of your normal 360 game I would have probably 
 traded it in by now. However the visuals are the one saving grace and allow you to play without 
 throwing your controller at the screen in frustration when you get caught in a number of its gameplay 
 faults. The lacking of a solid story that this game could have had and it's poor gameplay features 
 result in a game you'll probably only play once. The map editor is really amazing, but it's tainted 
 by its SP and will most likely be the reason why you won't go back to this game very often. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thomasque
Rating: 6
Date: Feb 2, 2009 10:11 am PT
Review:  The Good: 
  -The created world is very detailed and fantastically varied. The huge map has mountains, savanna, 
 desert, jungle, you name it. 
  -The variety of the available weapons is truly impressive and make the game a little more varied. 
 You actually have to make decisions when choosing between balanced weapons instead of just selecting 
 the good ones. 
  -Combat was very well done. Finally a game understands that just because the targeting reticule 
 is over something does not mean that every round from an assault rifle is going to go through the 
 "X". The gun jumps as it's fired. 
  -The use of fire as a weapon on the savanna is incredibly entertaining
  
  The Bad:
  Let me 
 break down the entire game for you.
  1. get transportation
  2. at the city in the center of the map, get a mission 
  3. start your 20 min journey driving 
 to the remote edges of the map to get to the mission point. 
  4. kill the 4 guys at the roadblock
  5. kill the 4 guys at the roadblock
  6. kill the 4 guys 
 at the roadblock
  7. kill the 4 guys at the roadblock
  8. arrive at mission point and accomplish the mission (this will take 5 min)
  8. Start your 20 
 min drive back to the center of the map for the next mission
  9. kill the 4 guys at the roadblock
  10. kill the 4 guys at the roadblock
  11. kill the 4 guys 
 at the roadblock
  12. kill the 4 guys at the roadblock
  13. Go to 1. and REPEAT ENDLESSLY.
  
  -They spent so much time making Africa come to life that 
 they forgot to make A GAME. I couldn't care less about which faction was having me do what and 
 whatever reason and you know what, it didn't matter! I've spent about 40 hours playing this game 
 and I couldn't even tell you the name of the factions. I don't know why they're fighting and I 
 couldn't care less. I finally just quit playing because if I had to fight my way through another 
 hopelessly inept roadblock on my way to a mission objective that's hell and gone away, I was going 
 to loose it. 
  -This is technically an "open map" game, but it FELT incredibly linear. All the missions come from 
 the same place and always send you out somewhere on the edge of the map. 
  
  It's such a shame that they wasted such an inspired world on such an uninspired game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FabulousGamer90
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 30, 2009 7:17 pm PT
Review:  I always felt that if Far Cry got rid of those overpowered, annoying monsters in the first game, 
 and just stuck to humans, while keeping the structure of the game, it would have been awesome. 
 The game WAS awesome up until the 3rd or 4th level when the monsters appeared and then just went 
 downhill from that point. So I was looking forward to Far Cry 2 because of it being a complete 
 rewrite of the game; forgetting the story of the first and focusing purely on guys with guns. Though 
 on that note it is pretty weird why they actually called it Far Cry 2, having nothing to do with 
 the first one. I suppose its an advertisement thing.
  
  This time around you're one of about 6 guys that you can select from the start of the game. (not 
 that it matters because the whole game is in first person with no cutscenes, so all the difference 
 it makes are how your arms look) and its set in a fictional part of Africa where you're assigned 
 to kill a guy called The Jackal. The whole area is controlled by two factions and you'll do missions 
 for both of them. The premise is solid, but the story doesn't really develop and its never interesting. 
 The guy you're trying to kill laughably saves your life 3 times, and all your 'buddies' who originally 
 might seem to be important to the story turn out to be very disposable. You're all alone with the 
 environment and a bad case of malaria, and though i'm sure this is what the developers were aiming 
 for, it doesn't do a whole lot to advance the story. The ending closes things up nicely, but they 
 try to be clever with endgame choices and don't really succeed.
  
  The game is graphically stunning, though not on par with something like Crysis, I might be tempted 
 to put it in at least the top 5 of most beautiful games ever. Fire effects in particular are just 
 phenomenal, and you can spread fire amongst the trees and bushes, basically anything that would 
 be flammable in reality is as dangerous in Far Cry 2. If you decide to carry a flamethrower you 
 can cause satisfying mayhem, but it can also be a deadly weapon for yourself if you're not careful 
 enough. All the environments look amazing, trees sway and all the shadows and wind effects flow 
 seamlessly. The game world is huge, though not as huge as some other games out there it definately 
 holds its own. The problem is that some areas look very much the same, and there is no way to quickly 
 teleport to certain points in the map, apart from using busses. But bus stations are few and far 
 between and even travelling just to get to one can take a long time. The graphics are beautiful, 
 sure, but how much travelling through same-y areas are you willing to take before you just want 
 to start the next mission?
  
  It doesn't help that everywhere you go, you can't travel for anymore than a few minutes without 
 being attacked. Because EVERYONE seems to hate you in this world. You have no real friends, and 
 everyone just wants to kill you. If you travel through an outpost (and they are everywhere so you're 
 forced to) you get swarmed by enemies and you have to kill them all, or escape (difficult) only 
 to encounter another very similar outpost a minute later. Yes constant action might sound entertaining, 
 but all I wanted to do after a mission is travel peacefully to the next one, and you're always 
 stalled by being shot at all the time. This makes the trudging from place to place even longer 
 than it really needs to be, and a million times more repetitive.
  
  When you're actually on a mission the game shines. You can approach missions in many different 
 ways, from many different angles, and with a good selection of weaponry. Personally I took this 
 opportunity to be tactical most of the time, and I was whoring the sniper rifle a lot. Its very 
 satisfying if you can find a good spot somewhere high to just pick everyone off, and then walk 
 into the area with your flamethrower to clean up the last of the remaining, helpless, enemies. 
 ;)
  
  I should mention the fittingly horrible healing animations (horrible in a good way) . You might 
 have to pry out a bullet from your arm, or snap your elbow back into place when your arm breaks. 
 They made me cringe, but I enjoyed all of them!!
  
  Far Cry 2 is a repetitive game. In the 22 hours it took me to finish the game, I must have spent 
 at least 10 of them repeatedly attacking outposts or just feeling bored travelling around. The 
 campaign missions are all really fun, but most aspects inbetween can be frustrating. I timidly 
 recommend this game, but it is very overhyped; and like Far Cry, it has glimpses of innovation 
 and brilliance, slightly overshadowed by its problems. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Paul_GameFury
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 28, 2009 4:57 pm PT
Review:  Take everything you know about Far Cry and throw it out the window. This story has no relation 
 to the first game. The feral abilities are gone. Instead of different levels, this game uses an 
 open world environment. There wasn't really any reason to actually call this Far Cry 2, but that 
 doesn't stop it from being a good game. Just be prepared for a very different experience.
  
  The gameplay actually has far more in common with Fallout 3 than it does the original title. 
 It is definitely an action game and not an RPG, but the basics are much the same. After the opening 
 tutorial sequence, you are thrust into an open world and can go anywhere you like. At first, this 
 can be a little daunting because the game doesn't give you much direction. Tasks can be received 
 by a number of different people that will reward you with information, assistance, or diamonds 
 (the currency of the game) . Most of the missions play out much the same, with only one of three 
 different objectives in most scenarios: kill a person, destroy a target, or get an item. Most of 
 these objectives are located quite a ways from where the mission starts, and you probably will 
 end up driving to your destination. This is one aspect that may impress some people and disappoint 
 others. You will be driving more than shooting in this game. The average mission takes around fifteen 
 minutes. Five of those minutes will be driving to the location, five will be fighting the enemy 
 at the objective, and five will be driving back to the person that gave you the mission. This got 
 particularly annoying when I wrecked my car or got it stuck between two rocks. I then had to walk 
 to my destination or hope to stumble across a new car. There are bus stops around the map that 
 allow you to fast travel, but not very many and their locations aren't the most convenient. The 
 vehicles controls are very good. They strike a good balance between fun and realism. It feels like 
 you are really driving, but you will never have to fight against the controls to keep the car on 
 the road at high speeds. Far Cry 2 is also an incredibly long game, especially considering that 
 it is a first-person shooter. Most of the time these games can be finished in under seven hours, 
 but this one can last anywhere from twenty five to fifty hours, depending on how many side missions 
 you attempt. There are multiple difficulties that further extend replay value.
  
  Traveling around the map in the game is brilliantly implemented. At anytime, whether walking or 
 driving, you can pull up you map. If you are moving, the map is lowered partially so you can see 
 where you are going but is raised back to full view when you stop. Like many other games, there 
 is a compass on the bottom corner that shows you which direction your objective is. Also like many 
 other games, there are sign posts at intersections that tell you which direction points of interest 
 are. Unlike other games, instead of having to slow down to read these signs, the one pointing to 
 your destination will be colored while all others will be white. This makes it extremely easy to 
 get around at high speeds without getting lost. My only gripe with the map would be that you cannot 
 set your own markers. This means when you aren't on a mission, getting where you want to go will 
 mean constantly checking your map to make sure you're heading in the right direction. This is a 
 minor issue, so otherwise, travel is a breeze.
  
  In the beginning, you start with four basic weapons: a machete, pistol, assault rifle, and rocket 
 launcher. As you perform missions for the weapons dealer, many more will become available. Once 
 a weapon is purchased, an unlimited number can be found in your armory. Upgrades can be purchased 
 for each weapon or other areas, such as camouflage or your ability to repair vehicles. This was 
 the driving force behind the game for me. I didn't care about the story or completing missions. 
 My main goal was to earn diamonds to buy all the weapons and upgrades.
  
  The graphics are probably the best I have seen on the next generation consoles so far. The envoirnment 
 looks like a real jungle with extremely realistic trees and grass. Each vehicle is intricately 
 detailed, both inside and out. They will even gather mud the longer you drive them around. Although 
 you do hear tons of birds and animals in the environment, you don't see many, which makes the land 
 feel empty and unrealistic at times. The character models aren't the game's strongest aspect, but 
 they look just as good as most other games. There are tons of little things that add to the experience. 
 For example when a NPC hands you an item, in most games they would reach out and the item would 
 disappear from their hand. In Far Cry 2, you will see your character's arm take the item. I was 
 a little disappointed at how little effect you actually have on your surroundings. Bushes and grass 
 don't move as you walk through them. In lakes or streams, it is clear that the animations for splashes 
 or ripples are playing on top of them and the water itself isn't affected. All things considered, 
 though, this game is still a treat to experience.
  
  Although there isn't really anything wrong with the game, nothing really made it stand out. All 
 of the characters are generic stereotypes that you would expect to find in a diamond-mining third 
 world country. There are the mercenaries (of which you are one) who are motivated only by money 
 and don't particularly care who they are fighting for. Then of course you must have the rebels 
 who want to drive out the foreigners. Everyone else that would be expected is there, from corrupt 
 police to the brutal militia that just wants to shoot at anyone they can. The only person with 
 any real personality is the main enemy, an arms dealer known as "The Jackal." This makes it hard 
 to dislike him, especially if you've seen movies like "Lord of War." In addition to the characters 
 being bland, the missions aren't very exciting either. There aren't many large areas and most missions 
 send you to a small group of run down shacks with ten to fifteen enemies guarding them. Most tasks 
 break down to shooting a straight line to your objective then running back out. Even the destruction 
 missions end poorly because just as your target begins to explode, a menu immediately pops up on 
 the screen to let you know you completed the task and breaks up the action. Thanks, the gigantic 
 explosion wasn't obvious enough. I also never understood why the militia always shoots as soon 
 as they spot you. In the opening scene, you drive right past them, but after the game starts, you 
 become public enemy number one for no apparent reason. Even after you kill enough of them to be 
 perceived as a reasonable enemy, they still open fire long before they would be able to recognize 
 you.
  
  Although I had fun playing Far Cry 2, it is also important to note that once I turned the game 
 off, I didn't feel it dragging me back. It's a very well done game; there's no doubt about that. 
 It is probably a good idea to rent this one first. Many people will love it from beginning to end 
 while others may not like all the driving or sparse action moments. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cigsmokingman
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jan 27, 2009 9:15 am PT
Review:  i picked up far cry 2 having heard some good things about it, such as it had a huge world to explore 
 and it would take a really long time to beat. unfortunately, these turned out being two of the 
 biggest drawbacks.
  
  you are thrown into the game right from the start, with no background information or anything. 
 storyline is almost non-existant even as you progress through the game. but that's not a fart in 
 the wind compared to the real problems with the game.
  
  the huge world is good and bad at the same time... good in that it is sometimes interesting to 
 see all the different areas and drive around, and there are some stunningly beautiful moments and 
 areas particularly at sundown. but it is also bad because many times you will accept a mission 
 and your objective will be clear on the other side of the map, forcing you to either drive the 
 long way or find a bus stop. driving wouldn't be so bad if you weren't assaulted time after time 
 after frikkin time.. over and over again you will be attacked and most times you will have to stop, 
 kill your attackers, then get out and repair your vehicle or take theirs. this can prove to be 
 excruciatingly annoying as you play the game more and more. 
  
  difficulty: i ended up switching the difficulty to easy early on in the game because it just isn't 
 worth it to me to spend an hour or so driving between objectives and collecting diamonds or whatever 
 just to get killed by an assault truck that comes out of nowhere and lose all my progress because 
 i forgot to save. even on easy the game can be rather difficult.
  
  i was hoping for a long, enjoyable action adventure game but instead i am stuck with a banal, repetetive 
 run of the mill first person shooter. i have not even unlocked the second half of the map and i 
 have spent a solid 20 hours playing. by this point i have little interest in continuing.
  
  long story short: buy it if you want to waste a hell of a lot of time. not if you want a good game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chozzenn
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 25, 2009 10:59 am PT
Review:  Far Cry 2 is without a doubt one of the better games of 2008. The graphics are simply the 2nd to 
 the best of Crysis but they aren't that much in difference. They are tuned down in the xbox version 
 but they still look amazing to anyone. The graphics are not the only thing about it, its also about 
 the physics engine used in the game. It is simply revolutionizing. I find myself running around 
 fighting rebels just to blow up houses and buildings. Another thing is the environment you are 
 in has dry grass and trees. Throwing a Molotov or grenade into an open field sets it up in flames 
 as well as trees. A great strategy to eliminate enemies coming up on you. 
  
  Enough of the games engine though onto the actually game. Alls I can say is I simply love this 
 game. The missions are somewhat repetitive but the amount of ways you can do missions on this game 
 makes it somewhat forgiving. Whether it be run and gun, snipe em out, or a more strategical advance 
 onto the enemies grounds. The combat is awesome, bullets are constantly flying around everywhere 
 and the AI isn't the brightest but its better than other games I have played. They sneak up behind 
 you in the jungle and hide in buildings or around them. But what makes this game the best I believe 
 is the reality of it. You don't have a ridiculously large health bar so you can't expect to just 
 run in pistols flaming. It's quite easy to die if you don't plan your attacks before you run them 
 and more often then not you will be at a certain spot for awhile trying to find out a perfect attack. 
 The healing system makes you feel like you really are the character unlike other games where you 
 press a button and are automatically healed (I know its because they are not meant to be a realism 
 game like this one is) , instead you heal when you get below your final bar by pressing a button 
 and your character will do something disgustingly real to a part of his body that has been wounded. 
 For example I was shot in the arm so he took out his knife and plucked the bullet out of his arm. 
 Then when you are above the bar your character while inject himself with a type of painkiller. 
 When you die you have these 'friends' that are helping you with missions throughout the game and 
 one of them will show up and fight off the bad guys while dragging you around to find a safe spot. 
 I thought it was pretty cool. After that they wont help you again till awhile longer then when 
 you die your dead.
  
  The missions mainly involve eliminating a specific target, interfering with a arms vehicle to disrupt 
 someones supply, liberating a enemy base, obtaining intel. All of this is done to obtain diamonds 
 which are the source of money here, unlock new weapons, and of course progress through storyline 
 to find the Jackal.
  
  Overall Far Cry 2 is a great game but I'm not sure that I would spend $60 on it just yet. It can 
 be hard to get into the game but when you pick up the controller it can be hard to put down at 
 times. If you love causing mayhem this game is definitely for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: charlieprince
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 23, 2009 9:02 am PT
Review:  Farcry 2 is easilly the best sandbox game ever. Don't believe all of these reviews about how bad 
 it is. Of course, the begining really is boring as you have no idea where to go and you feel like 
 running from everyone. as the game progresses, you gain a feel for the enviorment and you can use 
 the enviorment against the enemy, even more than Turok for xbox 360! now, time for the review:
 
  
  gameplay-10
  i think this game can be as fast paced or silent as you want. im more of a strategy player, so 
 i drive about 50 feet from the site, get out, take out all of the snipers with my silent sniper, 
 then i light the place up, laughing as they all scamper not knowing what to do while i snipe them 
 in a firey inferno. doesnt that sound awesome!
  
  special features-10
  i think having a map editor makes this game epic. i love making volcanoes for multiplayer matches. 
 also... ONLY GOOD 360 MAP EDITOR! can actually compete with crysis!
  
  multiplayer-10
  map editor+multiplayer=epic win. feels real... except when you blow up volcanoes and everyone dies 
 by an inferno while you snipe them! MUAHAHA!
  
  controlls-8.5
  eh, i dont typically like not ragdoll stuff. feels a bit constricted. hangglider feels like trying 
 to fly a 1,000 pound car with a single baloon. but, otherwise, everything else is good cept the 
 constriction
  
  enviorment-10
  detailed, and you can make your own, what more could you want?
  
  story-9.8
  eh... plot twists 
 make it interesting. just no cutscenes... which i guess is good... even though you NEVER SEE YOUR 
 CHARACTERS FACE!
  
  so, thats the review. it would have been a perfect 10 if the vehicle controlls and almost perfect 
 story didnt bring it down. 
  
  p. s. my live is ivory66, I NEED TO SNIPE YOU 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dartadion
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 22, 2009 12:59 am PT
Review:  Your Stuck in Africa with Malaria. Your mission is Simple, Hunt down and Kill "The Jackal". Or 
 so it seems easy. Stuck in a War between 2 Major Factions, you must outsmart and outwit your enemies 
 and Betray Everyone. 
  Good Luck cause your going to need it!
  
  THE GOOD
  
  -Great Graphics -Great Open World -Very Smart AI -Great Gameplay -Tons of Replay Ability -Good 
 Story especially at the End -Fun Multiplayer -Easy Map Editor -Nice Selection of Weapons -Very 
 Realistic -Immersive
  
  THE BAD
  
  -Weapons Jamming -Nothing Else
  
  Now Far Cry 2 may sound like your Average shooter but it's much more than that. Being a sequel 
 to the Original Far Cry on PC, it is missing many of the Features that made that Game Famous. The 
 Tridgens, Tropical Islands and The Characters from the First Game. Though it still has what the 
 First game should have always had, A Huge Open Non-Linear Environment. 50 Square Kilometers to 
 Roam around. And now with the Setting in Africa, it seems more serious than a Tropical Paradise. 
 
  
  So at the Start of the Game You have a choice to pick 1 of 9 Characters. Each Character being different 
 in their own way you choose who to be and the Rest of Them will be your Buddies who help you along 
 in the Game. So it starts off that your being driven to a hotel and you soon faint of Malaria. 
 You later wake up to find your target The Jackal searching through your luggage. He later leaves 
 you hoping for you to die and soon a Fight Erupts outside the Hotel. This is only the Begginingg 
 of What's to be a fun Game.
  
  So the Game has some very unique features that most games never thought of. An example is Repairing 
 broken down vehicles and Healing yourself in Battle. In other words this game has a lot of Originality 
 in it. The AI are also quite challenging at times especially in great numbers and strategy is key 
 to Survival. The types of missions in the Game are also quite original such as Going to Churches 
 and Clinics to Deliver passports for Medicine, Radio Towers for Assasination Missions, Speaking 
 to your Buddies for Missions, Talking to Either Warlord of The 2 Factions of United Front for Liberation 
 and Labour (UFLL) or Allience for Popular Resistance (APR) and even speaking to the Gun Store owners 
 for Weapons.
  
  In the game you encounter a Journalist named Reuben who wants you to help him with his story by 
 finding his Jackal Tapes. Jackal Tapes are tapes from Several Jackal interviews that Reuben himself 
 arranged. So Look very Carefully.
  
  The Map Editor is Very easy to use but is very time consuming so you must have patience if you 
 want to Create a Great Map. These Maps can be uploaded to Ubisoft and be played on Social Matches. 
 Which now brings me to my next Topic Multiplayer.
  
  There are 4 different game modes: Deathmatch, Team Deathmatch, Capture The Diamond and Uprising. 
 Team Deathmatch and Deathmatch is the Obvious game modes, But Capture the Diamond is your Standard 
 CTF except find the Diamond. Uprising is an Original game mode where a team needs to capture 3 
 Terrotories and then kill the Captain of the opposing Team. The Multiplayer also offers to upgrade 
 your class for better weaponry.
  
  So Far Cry 2 is a Great Game and should be Experienced by any FPS Fan!
  
  Review Score: 10 
 - A Perfect Shooter with Perfect Factors!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: evilmonkey543
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 21, 2009 6:10 pm PT
Review:  Far cry 2 is a great game. However, if your expecting something with the first Far cry you may 
 be disappointed. This new far cry takes none of the Story line from the old one and does not carry 
 over any of the fantasy elements such as the crazy mutated creatures.
  
  The main complaints of this game are generally these:
  
  Too much walking/ Driving around
 
  
  Repetitive Missions
  
  
  Weak story line .
  
  In my opinion the story is not too bad. Yes it could be better but there are so many moments in 
 the game that get you emotionally connected to the characters that you should be able to forgive 
 any flaws in the story. 
  
  As for too much walking/ driving around, well it does advertise a 50 square kilometer area. Any 
 smaller and you would feel as though you weren't really traveling through Africa but just a small 
 game world.
  
  As for repetitive missions, players should learn to approach some of these "repetitive missions" 
 with different strategies each time. Charge in with a grenade launcher. Wait till night and silently 
 slay your enemies. Create a large fire to distract your enemies while you move in from behind to 
 steal or destroy a precious item. I used all of these strategies and many more in my play through 
 of Far Cry 2. 
  
  The bottom line is of why Far Cry 2 is so amazing is because it is so innovative. It brings a lot 
 of new ideas to the gaming field that when all brought together create a great and unique game 
 well worth the 60 dollars i paid for it. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: sk8ngamer511
Rating: 2.5
Date: Jan 23, 2009 4:23 pm PT
Review:  To start off with, this review is for those gamers out there who are searching for a nice, solid 
 video game.
  
  
  So, in that saying, the Far Cry series is by far the most innovative series, to date, that I've 
 had the honor to play. Although in that saying, massive issues/bugs exist. Quite frankly, absolutely 
 no developer to date has managed to create a game that is a all-around, "good game". Quite frankly, 
 the way the gaming industry has taken itself is being to take a toll on me now. 
  
  So, back to the subject at hand. Yes, Far Cry 2 seems to present itself to be a "good game" the 
 first few hours you play it, but it eventually becomes pretty **** frustrating. For example, last 
 night I turned on my Xbox, put in the disc, only to find, IT FROZE! Supposedly, this issue is very 
 present because I went to search a solution on Google, and there were over a million hits, and 
 that saying, not everybody posts something about it. Not to stop there, the Artificial Intelligence 
 is TERRIBLE. Not to mention the pathetic rag-doll physics when they die. Still, I could probably 
 go on and on about how frustrating Far Cry 2 can get, but I won't bore you guys. To break the frenzy, 
 I would definitely recommend everybody to buy Far Cry 2 because after-all, you guys might just 
 get lucky and score a disc without an infinite number of problems. So, go for it!
  
  Note to shoppers: I bought my Far Cry 2 disc at Best Buy. That may have something to do with it 
 because Best Buy is a low-end retailer, and they tend to rip their customers off. So, I wouldn't 
 suggest you go near any Best Buy, if you're shopping for a quality product. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brekfestman
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 20, 2009 9:58 pm PT
Review:  Sure, it makes the game a lot more difficult to play when enemies always respawn after you return 
 to a guard post or other area you've cleared. But, I think the fact they respawn makes complete 
 sense in the context of the game and also helps heighten the immersion and the intensity. Also, 
 while it's true the story leaves something to be desired, the real story is the beautifully designed 
 African landscape, not the characters. 
  
  I haven't yet delved into the map making mode, but with already 30 hours logged in the single player 
 and maybe another 10 in multiplayer, this is a game that I am getting my money's worth. Don't get 
 it if you are looking for a game to breeze through in a week or two a la COD4. 
  
  
  Bottom line, this has been one of the most immersive and beautiful looking games I have played. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Cakeness
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 18, 2009 3:12 pm PT
Review:  personally i liked the game, the game is mostly about the look and feel of the game. And of course, 
 the guns (no s***) . 
  The game has an amazing landscape which looks natural and can be used to your advantage in many 
 ways. the games story mode is huge, so it's vital to get a car because walking from on side to 
 the other would seriously take a good 30 minutes.
  The automatic environment system is also great, when the time of day and weather changes you really 
 feel like the developers have put alot of effort into making the game feel real.
  Story mode is realy a bunch of chores to do and missions are all pretty similar but you'll probably 
 like doing them, since you'll want to unlock some sweet weapons and you'll most likely be killing 
 people on the way to victory.
  Trust me, guns on this game are class, and well balanced. Aiming may feel a bit dodgy to begin 
 with but it grows on you and you'll get used to it. All of the guns feel great to shoot and you'll 
 be wanting to use all of them just to feel what it's like.
  
  Multiplayer is alright, but going into it straight away you might feel helpless as you don't have 
 a clue what's going on, but you do get the hang and it's quite fun, as leveling up can unlock you 
 weapons that you decide.
  
  all in all it's not a bad buy at all and i do recommend if you can be arsed driving around
  9/10 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vigoureuxEVIL5
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 18, 2009 7:28 am PT
Review:  Any other enviroment and i would have put down the controller,
  Any other long car journey and i would have put down the controller
  Any other annoying 2mph 
 hit and run and i would have put down the controller
  Any other ridicuolus storyline and i would have put down the controller
  Any other Game, and 
 I would have not have loved it !!!
  
  Far Cry 2 is the wierdist game I have ever played in the fact that you dont mind the ridiculously 
 boring and annoying glitches and lack of physichs, 
  The minute number of KPM, or Kills Per Minute as i like to call it, or the many other troublesome 
 issues.
  
  Believe me, this game is far from Excellent, and lacks in the online multiplayer, Story and FPS 
 basics. But the Map editor and times where you actually feel remorse for your friends in their 
 passing, and glory when you blow up a whole outpost with a single well placed Molitov Coctail make 
 the long car journey worth it.
  In A Nutshell:
  
  15-20... Get it Gameplay : 8
  25-30.... Be Sure 
  Above.... Avoid Graphics : 9
  Sound : 8
  Fun : 7
  Value : 8 
::::::

::::::
UserName: martis7991
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 15, 2009 2:58 pm PT
Review:  There are alot of people I have talked to that said this game is for the birds. That yes, it is 
 nice to look at, but thats all. To those people, i pose this question.... Did you even play it?
 
  
  The only way you could not fall in love with this game is if you are one of those people that can't 
 play a game unless it tells you exactly where to go, and what to do. For those of you out there 
 that can think for themselves this game is amazing. 
  
  The open-endedness of Far Cry 2 is seemingly limitless. You can accomplish the missions in a variety 
 of ways that are unique to you, you can go in guns blazing in the middle of the day or you can 
 wait until nightfall and go in with the machette. 
  
  FC2's map is HUGE!!! You can go to wherever you want in the massive map, and always run into something 
 you missed before. The map and GPS system gives it a neat twist aswell. You can have the map out 
 while moving and the gps blinks when you are close to a hidden item. I have noticed that people 
 don't like the distance between locations, and the ability to get lost. I personally think that 
 this adds some reality to the game. 
  
  The weapons are fun to use too. Be it pistols, Assualt rifles, or even a humble Moltov Cocktail, 
 that when thrown erupts the surounding vegetation into a burning field of Death.
  
  All in all Far Cry 2 is an amazing open-ended FSP. It is visualy and audibly pleasing and the action 
 is never a let down. If you are skeptical, Rent it. I garuntee you will go out and buy it after 
 myou try it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GAW14
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 15, 2009 1:49 pm PT
Review:  Far Cry 2 is a game for people who don't get bored and like to play the same game for a long time 
 but get rewarded along the way because you get diamonds that is the only currency in the country. 
 So when you want to play a game this is generally the same through out the 40-50 hour campaign 
 game play. Far Cry 2 is a very unique game it has things that no other game designer could have 
 thought of. You can choose between about 6 characters that you go through the story as but none 
 of the different characters have a different story so pretty much you can choose some of your buddies. 
 You know who you are playing as by your hands. When you play Far Cry 2 you actually feel like you 
 are in Africa and if you live in Canada and buy the game you get a chance at a 12 day trip to Kenya 
 and Tanzania and a whole bunch of other stuff. For the people who don't like shooters definitely 
 don't play this game because it is for sure a full out shooter but an amazing shooter at that. 
 So people go out and purchase or even rent because you wont even dent the campaign in a week so 
 play it and love it. For sure a 9/10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pikapoka
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 14, 2009 4:34 pm PT
Review:  Its 1:28 in the morning and i am still coming off the buzz of finishing the game an hour ago... i 
 wont beat arround the bush, this game is seriously the best fps/adventure game i have ever played!
 
  
  and i have played just about all the major games in the past 10 years
  
  the graphics are top notch!
  the gameplay is outstanding.... people complaining about the boredom 
 of navigating the world and that the story is lacking are franquely full of ****
  
  the world is vast and gives you a sense of freedom... it realy is biiiiig... it took me a good hour 
 to get from end to end of the entire map... it would probably take days to see every corner of the 
 game's world, its that big
  
  all throughout the game i have only come across one bug, which was a sniper clipping into a rock 
 formation... other then that, the game was solid, performed superbly and never hung up
  
  the story is mind blowing and wont let you go for a long long time since you'll be replaying the 
 game over and over to do things differently and try out all the options... i know i will
  
  its a true pioneer in fps terms, yes it has its childs illnesses, but those can be easily overlooked
 
  
  all in all, YOU HAVE TO TRY THIS! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lydi30
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 13, 2009 9:30 am PT
Review:  Far cry 2 is a epic, free roaming first person shooter. Deep in africa the government has broken 
 down and war is brewing between two different fractions, each fighting for control of the people. 
 The people you choose to work for will affect this, but your overall mission is to kill the elusive 
 Jackal.
  Far cry 2's graphics are imense, with the african landscape spreading out infront of you. The controls 
 are simple yet effective, and the realism is amazing. There are a number of characters in which 
 you can choose from in farcry 2, although in the long run there is no apparent differnce.
  The many different weapons in farcry 2 work well with the landscape. e. g the flamethrower, personally 
 my favourite weapon, can be used to torch the landscape, when grass is set on fire it will burn 
 for quite a time before turning to charcoal, the same with the tree's. Another personel favourite 
 of mine is the exploding ammo boxes, if a round hits a ammo box , the ammo box will begin exploding 
 bullets and anything else that happens to be inside.
  I experience no lag whilst playing farcry 2, except when using mapmaker i piled as many explosives 
 and ammo boxes as high as it would allow me before blowing them up from the bottom, this game a 
 very large amound of lag which died down after a few minutes and the boxes had stopped exploding.
 
  Far cry 2 can last as long as you want, as it is a free roam you can do missions as soon as they 
 become available or ride around the landscape in a 4x4 killing people, and wildlife. There are 
 optional side missions, like underground missions to gain malrya pills or accepting missions from 
 electricity pylons. The main story missions are rather long but with plenty of places to stock 
 up on ammo, replace guns and save your game. On some main missions you will be rang by one of you 
 'buddies', he will tell you of a different way to approach a mission. If you do the mission his/her 
 way then you will recive safe house upgrades, eg ammo piles and better vechiles. Although the begging 
 may be found boring and slow to some people, with little actions and a lot of travels, if you stick 
 with it you will be awarded by a unique and thrilling story near the end, with multiple choices 
 for some missions.
  Another unique feature to Far cry 2 is that weapons age with use. E. g if you use the same gun without 
 replacing it for a long period of time it will begin to rust, resulting in stoppages and after 
 that your gun will break completly, you character will simply toss it aside into the scattering 
 of dead bodies around you. 
  The xbox 360 version, and the ps3, has a wide variety of achivements, from killing zeberas to killing 
 your own buddies.
  Overall i think this game is a must buy to anybody that likes free roaming or first peson games, 
 as missions can be done anyway you wish, ever that be stealth, or running in with a whopping big 
 rocket lancher, this game caters for most types of gamers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GameObserver
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 13, 2009 5:32 am PT
Review:  When I first heard the news that Far Cry 2 wouldn't take place in the Caribbean I went through 
 all phases of grief: shock, denial, bargaining, anger, depression, guilt (well, maybe not guilt) , 
 acceptance and hope. Let's face it, the setting made the first game memorable, because the genetic 
 experiment gone awry story was as original as butter on toast. Hearing it would take place in Africa 
 actually gave me something to hope for. Africa is largely untapped material in video games. I couldn't 
 wait to see how Ubisoft Montreal would use its multicultural "expertise" this time around. 
  
  The final outcome is somewhat diluted. Though the game has glimmers of greatness, it falls 
 flat as soon as your character gets into the thick of things. Far Cry 2 is a mindless, repetitive 
 action romp sprinkled with touches of originality. The game is fun in general, unfortunately it 
 missed a great opportunity to make something more of itself. It hacks through its first few minutes 
 of substance like a machete-wielding bushwhacker offering players nothing more than an elaborate 
 shooting gallery with movable targets on an African backdrop. 
  
  
  THE RIDE THAT NEVER WILL BE
  
  After selecting the look of your character's arms the game 
 starts with a taxi ride to a hotel. A talkative cab driver gives you a free tour of the region. 
 You can immediately smell war in the air. We see processions of villagers heading for safer grounds, 
 militia convoys hustling, brushfires raging and checkpoints keeping drivers on edge, all this while 
 propaganda spouts on the radio -- a great first five minutes. You get the impression the game will 
 be epic in every aspect. Unfortunately, reality sets in fast. Far Cry 2 is a run of the mill shooter 
 with marginal depth. After the first plot-driven gunfight the promise of substance vanishes like 
 a hare bolting into tallgrass.
  
  Your character is taken in by one of the two militias (APR or UFLL) and told to kill some poor 
 saps in a nearby camp. A brief tutorial explains how to fix vehicles and use the map. Ten minutes 
 into the game and we are ready for the first mission, which in essence could also have been the 
 last since they all look alike. It's all about killing people. It doesn't matter who they are; 
 if it walks on two legs, it deserves a bullet to the head, at least in the game's rationale. 
 
  
  One problem though: there is no rationale. Anybody you meet is a "bad guy". Why? Because this is 
 an African country during unrest, silly Before this topic derails, let me clarify that Ubisoft 
 made sure to add plenty of white people. The game clearly goes out of its way to avoid any racial 
 backlash. Not that it matters. What matters is the loose setup. A short ride in a taxi and the 
 land is free of bystanders, ready for mindless action. It seriously lacks a human touch. Emphasis 
 should have been put on what Africans go through when warmongers and "Lords of War" mettle with 
 such a rich continent. Basically, the game needs more of the cab driver stuff. Instead, Far Cry 
 2 is a guilt-free playground for Western males. Like the header says: "The ride that never will 
 be".
  
  
  PALA-POW! 
  
  Much like a GTA game, Far Cry 2 is mission-based. Players can roam around at will doing as they 
 please, even after accepting a mission from various locations on the map. Sadly, there's not much 
 to do while free-roaming. As stated above, there are no civilians -- nothing to interact with. 
 Anybody you meet outside of demilitarized cities, like Pala, is a foe. Towns only act as mission 
 depositories and the occasional assassination. Stepping outside city boundaries puts everybody 
 at risk of you putting a bullet between their eyes. Why? Because you are the only competent warrior 
 in the region; everybody else is cannon fodder waiting to pass through your crosshair. It's the 
 closest thing to a human safari as you can get.
  
  Your character meets "buddies" through the course of the trivial main story that can assist you 
 while you off mercenaries. Buddies give alternate ways of completing missions and can help you 
 out of a jam. Your friends add slightly more depth to the game, especially the one that saves your 
 hind when you get downed in a fight (the effect is quite realistic and deserves praise) . You can 
 even save injured buddies by giving them meds, but that's where the profundity ends. There are 
 but three mission types: Kill, Destroy and Deliver, with the last two always involving a healthy 
 dose of the first. 
  
  As mentioned above there are "assassination" missions in cities, though in theory only. You can 
 lob a grenade next to your mark; if he doesn't get injured, nobody gets their panties up in a bunch. 
 Whack your target in the back of the head, on the other hand, even with a silenced weapon and no 
 witnesses, and you get a shootout with the local militias. Huh? 
  
  AI is hit and miss. It seems Ubisoft tried to add a stealth element to all the foliage and night 
 cycles. And though stalking around crouched in grass gives you cover for the most part, enemies 
 are too quick to realize where shots are coming from. Furthermore, opponents sometimes behave like 
 total dolts during shootouts, even in daytime. Players will often spot targets crouched, ready 
 to attack, biding their time for an opportune shot even mumbling to themselves naught but five 
 feet away. Eh? 
  
  The common currency is diamonds. One can find them in briefcases spread out in the wilderness with 
 the help of a tracking device, but missions are what mainly get you the sparkle. The rocks are 
 used to buy a rather impressive arsenal and upgrades. Guns picked up from downed opponents will 
 often jam and prove unreliable. Purchased weapons are more dependable and look nicer. 
  
  
  OK, SO THE ACTION IS FUN
  
  You can drive or take a bus (I guess the fare is paid in diamonds?) 
 to your missions. In the process you come across various blood-soaked intermissions. The region 
 is peppered with checkpoints (shooting gallery #1) , camps (shooting gallery #2) , facilities like 
 train depots and meat factories (shooting gallery #3) and bad guys in various vehicles (mobile 
 shooting gallery #4) . I might be forgetting some but you get the gist: the savannah is teeming 
 with "bad people". After repeating the same assignments for 10 hours, and having to pass the aforementioned 
 "shooting galleries" every in-game mile or so, players begin exhibiting symptoms similar to their 
 malaria-stricken character. To say gameplay is shallow is an understatement. 
  
  At least the action is good. Ubisoft's Dunia engine produces crisp fighting. Shooting is smooth 
 and precise, save for the occasional missed shot due to blocky collision around trees and shanties. 
 Objects are not badly designed; enemies simply take good cover, which requires precise aiming to 
 pick them off. Opponents will react differently depending on where you hit them, accentuating the 
 fine animation. Downed targets sometimes manage to squirm out a few shots from the ground if they 
 are not properly dealt with. Wounded enemies will even help their mates, adding another dimension 
 to sniping. Most of the fighting will be done from long range using sniper rifles, but some parts 
 require close combat. In all, loads of fun, but because of the repetition it's only fun in short 
 bursts. 
  
  The game clearly focuses on how you approach your targets, not what you do to them (the latter 
 is mundanely obvious) . A few cosmetic missions involve getting information out of characters, though 
 getting to said characters unfortunately always leaves heaps of rotting carcasses in your wake. 
 Forgive my griping, but when a game plasters the taxi part in every trailer, one gets the impression 
 production value will be more elaborate, at least in-between all the fighting. 
  
  Like in the first Far Cry, vehicles play an important role. For a developing country, it seems 
 the locals don't care much about their rides -- they are freely lying around in the most convenient 
 of places. Not that there's anything wrong with that. The maps are rather large and require vehicles 
 to traverse. Boats, Jeeps, dune buggies, luxury SUV's, even hang gliders are there for the picking. 
 Driving around is one of the highlights of the game. Controls take some getting used to but are 
 particularly realistic, especially when bringing the map over the steering while driving -- a neat 
 feature that adds a certain "laissez-faire" feel to the whole African experience. 
  
  
  NO AFRICAN SETTING IS COMPLETE WITHOUT EARTH AND FIRE
  
  Speaking of graphics, Far Cry 2 boasts 
 some of the prettiest open terrain seen in a while. Although jungle areas are scarcer than in the 
 previous game, the savannah and desserts are exquisite, as well as the canyons and lakes. Ubisoft 
 also did a phenomenal job with vegetation. Everything moves in the wind, even tree barks. Smaller 
 plants can be cut down with gunfire. Remember the scene in Predator when Arnold and his gang unloaded 
 into the jungle after Jessie Ventura got zapped, and how the foliage was razed in the process? 
 You can do it here too. 
  
  Even more impressive are the fires, which quite frankly produce the most lifelike effects seen 
 in any game to date. Together with wind it can be used to draw out enemies or corner them. Flames 
 spread from grass to trees so realistically it's almost eerie. 
  
  Night and day cycles aren't just esthetic; your visibility and the response time of enemies are 
 affected by it. Weather changes, like windstorms, completely alter the landscape. Graphics are 
 truly the immersive part of Far Cry 2. 
  
  Ubisoft cleverly plays with the First Person perspective by integrating gameplay with graphics. 
 When NPC characters frisk you, the game actually shows you being frisked in first perspective. 
 Switching from the steering wheel to a jeep's mounted gun gives players a glimpse of the character's 
 body as he slides into position. Furthermore, your character has malaria and needs to take pills 
 every so often. Again, graphics creep into gameplay to add more realism, especially when you get 
 dizzy spells before a crucial moment like taking a covert shot or while driving. Knocking on doors, 
 accepting mission files, taking your medicine, looking at your map or watch, all of it enriches 
 engagement, which is a plus. 
  
  Sound has a distinct African feel. Ambient drum scores as well as a few other movie-like tunes 
 kick in when fighting. On a down side, "action" music is initiated when your character shoots, 
 even by accident. Tunes could have also used more African vocals similar to the game's astounding 
 intro song. Furthermore, a few actors sound like they were taken off the street and forced to read 
 lines at gunpoint, and NPC's exchange lines too quickly during fights. I know they are supposed 
 to create a sense of exhilaration, but the effect is rather comical.
  
  As you would expect from a Montreal product, various languages and accents are present, including 
 Afrikaner. Enemies are often heard communicating, adding to the realism and giving the player a 
 tactical advantage. Extra driving effects like clunking sounds, rocks hitting the frame and breaks 
 squealing also spruce things up. Africa is literally alive with sound, from exotic birds to the 
 brush flowing in the wind. Oh ya, and you can hear monkeys doing their "thing" too. Nothing beats 
 monkeys, except hearing someone talking about monkeys in a foreign accent, which sadly there's 
 none of in the game. 
  
  
  SUMMARY
  
  As was the case with Ubisoft Montreal's Assassin's Creed, you wish Far Cry 2 had offered more. 
 Action is repetitive, especially when the game presents the title in such a profound way in the 
 first few minutes of gameplay. Had it added more natives and means to interact with them, Ubisoft 
 might have had a game of the year candidate. Instead we get a pretty, above-average shooter with 
 a virtually non-existent plot. As shooters go, this one is a nice addition for fans of plug-and-play 
 titles. Missions are bountiful and action takes seconds to get into. But for those wanting substance, 
 the game will somewhat disappoint. In solo Far Cry 2 plays a bit like in multiplayer: you get a 
 quick action fix with little depth content-wise.
  
  GRAPHICS: 92
  The savannah never looked better. Fire needs to be seen in action. Awesome graphics and weather 
 effects. First person perspective used to the fullest.
  
  GAMEPLAY: 80
  Action puts emphasis on instinct rather than tasks because everything revolves around shooting 
 and blowing stuff up. Missions are repetitive but fun.
  
  PRODUCTION: 75
  Nothing gets more human than civil war in Africa. Sadly, Far Cry 2 feels more like a playground 
 than a crisis. Ubisoft got lazy here.
  
  SOUND: 89
  Nature is alive with sound. Heart-pumping scores set the tone, even when they shouldn't. Various 
 accents are nice though not perfect. Music needs more African vocals.
  
  LASTING APPEAL: 85
  Solo mode lasts over 20 hours if one focuses on side-missions but repetition 
 can turn some players off. Online play extends the fun as one would expect.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: -INKling-
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 12, 2009 6:48 am PT
Review:  If there's one thing to remember with Far Cry 2 it's that you should look past first impressions. 
 After a promising opening cutscene the gameplay starts to trip you up. Initially the controls seem 
 far too loose and targeting enemies more than a few yards away descends into a series of stop-and-shoot 
 stand-offs. Out of ironsight, ropey weapons seem to miss the mark all too often whereas enemies 
 seem deadly accurate even over huge distances.
  
  There are further complications to simply getting around. Once you have got yourself a ride and 
 realised that, unlike Liberty City, cars don't have GPS systems in the savannah you are left with 
 a scruffy map and a lot of trouble. The biggest headache is that outside of some very small peaceful 
 zones every person that you encounter will start taking shots at you. This can turn a simple mission 
 into a series of unwelcome skirmishes. There is a bus network that takes you to various spots on 
 the map but you will end up fighting your way through the same checkpoint time after time. It doesn't 
 help that there is a potentially game-breaking glitch lurking around the 60% mark that will force 
 you to restart the game if you haven't made plenty of back-up saves.
  
  It's not until the 25% mark that the game begins to grab you. As you learn the mechanics of the 
 game you realise that the run and gun gameplay of the first Far Cry won't work here. Making a slow 
 approach, checking the map for a path of attack and being mindful of nearby cover are the way to 
 go here. Planning an approach of attack, purchasing weapons appropriate to your style of play and 
 completing missions how you want make for some genuinely satisfying missions. For instance, one 
 mission involved destroying a gas tank in a railyard. Here the player is advised to fight through 
 the yard, plant some explosives and dash for freedom, however, a quick look at the map reveals 
 a mountain pass which looks above the target. One well placed rocket and it's Mission Successful.
 
  
  The main reason for this is the great level design on show here. The map isn't the virtual playground 
 of Mercenaries 2 but that works in it's favour and the authenticity of the map is unmistakable, 
 in fact it's hard to believe that you are not in a genuine piece of wild African countryside. Lush 
 jungle river basins give way to sandy deserts, criss-crossed with dusty roads and vegetation. Days 
 and nights are book-ended by stunning sunrises and sunsets that are genuinely beautiful and on 
 a purely technical level this game can't be faulted.
  
  There has been a lot of criticism about Far Cry 2's story which although bare is certainly not 
 bad, just absent. The malaria mechanic seems superfluous but in general you can't fault a game 
 like this for having no narrative, it simply doesn't matter. Similarly, criticism around repetitive 
 missions is exaggerated as the same can be said for GTAIV, Dead Space and a host of other top titles.
 
  
  Basically this is a good game, perhaps even a great one but one that fails to initially impress. 
 With a little patience Far Cry 2 can be a very rewarding FPS and if players are willing to persevere 
 through a sub par first couple of hours then they will find an amazing world to immerse themselves 
 in. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JB1994
Rating: 6
Date: Mar 20, 2009 1:09 am PT
Review:  Posotive
  +Unique style gameplay
  +Nice graphics
  
  Negetive
  -To much driving about makes the game pretty boring
  -Gun play is OK at best
  -Multiplayer 
 is bare bones
  -Weak storyline
  
  I actually had high exspectations for this game and what it had bottled down to was it being a 
 pretty boring game that was completely overrated by gamespot.
  
  The concept of a free roaming FPS set in Africa was a great concept in my opinion, however the 
 design of Africa is horrible to say the least. This has to be one of the most frustrating games 
 ive ever played because of the none stop having to travel to places by vechile and running into 
 enemy outposts were ever you go. Also the combat isn't even that good, especially compared to games 
 like Call of Duty, the multiplayer is also a dissapointment from the lack of options and the storyline 
 is boring and unintresting.
  
  The graphics are great though, it seems as though the developers spent alot of time showing off 
 the graphics instead of making the game run on a good gameplay engine. The graphics can be overlooked 
 though because of the poor design to this game.
  
  This game realy was a disapointment don't waste your money on it... 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: didipot
Rating: 4.5
Date: Jan 9, 2009 3:49 pm PT
Review:  Everyone talks about it and reviews say all the best to this game...
  
  Yes, of course UBISOFT made this FPS gameplay, graphics and sounds Great.. But in the end the game 
 make you look for certain points in the map for hours. I know, map can be visible while you walk, 
 so it's easy to use, but anyway, what's the point of being a GPS freak in a FPS?!? And walking 
 around for hours!?
  
  Be prepared to spend hours looking for anything related to map's, from mission points to saving, 
 etc... That turn's a good FPS into a tedious one.
  
  I dare to say, they tried a GTA IV style (with missions in map) , and travelling thru objectives. 
 For me, it makes no sense at all.. You'll find yourself lost many times. You'll take much time 
 to understand where to go and safe ways to pass some roads. There are rebels in almost every road, 
 and they will hunt you down.
  
  Carefull about all the good reviews! There are many Far Cry fans out there, and I believe that 
 this game can be great for some, but very disapointing for some other's like me.
  
  My score is based on the Graphics, sounds, gameplay and somehow fun multiplayer
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Maddaus
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jan 9, 2009 7:31 am PT
Review:  While this game does have its good aspects, it mostly feels like a generic African safari "Call 
 of Duty" mixed with a little Grand Theft Auto. This game will be buried, forgotten, and in the 
 $20 bargain bin. If you want a truly unique and stimulating shooter, opt for Fallout 3.
  
  The African setting is probably the best part. This is the only thing that feels good about the 
 game, and the only thing that merits it a decent score. I don't have much good to say about this 
 game but I did find it interesting that if you wreck your vehicle too much you have to get out, 
 open the hood, and repair the engine. To me everything else has generic written all over it. Truly 
 uninspiring.
  
  I found myself checking the map extremely often in an unenjoyable way and this detracted from the 
 experience. Save points are a problem as well. This makes you feel as if you are forced to play 
 until the next one when it should allow you to save anytime. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DaDude253
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 9, 2009 1:23 am PT
Review:  Far Cry 2 is a Free roam first person shooter set in what apears to be a very curropted afirca 
 setting. As you travel in over 50kms of actual african landscape you meet people that can help 
 you earn money (Its actualy in dimonds in this game) . And when you first start the game you learn 
 that every thing is not whell. Poeple walk around with guns and will proberlely kill you if you 
 arnt lucky and the last plane out of this hellhole isent comming back and to top it all off you 
 have maleira. So to get by you will do such jobs that may be assasinating some one, blowing some 
 thing up, Finding some item, it goes on and on. Then there are missions that are called "Underground" 
 and you must do these if you wish to get medecine for you malaria and when this happends the screan 
 goes all green and drak colured and you charachter takes a pill but dont get to happy pills run 
 out and you only have a few days before it comes back and if it dose. whell to be honstest threw 
 out me playing it i never saw what happend but i assume you would probelry die or get sick and 
 set threw your charachter getting helped. Then there are missions at the gun shop where to unlock 
 gun you do missions THAT ALL INVOLVE BLOWING THE EXACT SAME TRUCK THIRTY TIMES. But still you get 
 newer better guns so i can't realy complain. Then there are these missions where go to a telephone 
 tower you pick at the tellephone box and you recive a call. A voice thats been edited so you can't 
 make out who is saying will tell you "there is a target avivlble of oputnity standed payment in 
 rough dimons will be transpherd to your acount apon compleasion" and then you kill a target and 
 you get payed 10 dimons apon compleasion. Now all this is tirning work? sure it is whell in game 
 you make your carachter sleep in sirtin parts of the day and what time your up realy depends on 
 that colour and possision the sun is ect. And along the way you make "Buddys" who biassicly just 
 makes you game give you one more chance if your health bar runs out and your back on you feet. 
 And you have also take care of your buddy if he\shes injured you can inject him\her with the health 
 bar raiser drug but it dosent always work and your buddy can die. and you get an ahcivment and 
 way so every body wins?. Now incase youv played Far Cry 2 you knows theres a few other small things 
 i dident cover it but this is my longer review ever and to discribe every aspect of this game would 
 be a real shocker. So if you like a GTA kinda game and first person shooters get this game its 
 a great time thats worth a buy but if not sure? rent it and see for your self.
  
  Grapihcs:10\10
  Sound:9\10
  Gameplay:9\10
  Amount:10\10
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ty1nesion
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 6, 2009 6:24 pm PT
Review:  Malaria, drug dealers, mercenaries, wild fires, and explosions. Far Cry 2 is an action packed and 
 explosive first person shooter that puts you in the middle of a corrupt Africa, doing missions 
 to gain respect and medicine with very realistic gameplay . Graphics- Amazing and sharp, it all 
 feels like a cut scene. All of the enemies look very real and give you the impression that they 
 are actually mercenaries.
  Gameplay- The movements of the enemies are very fluent and don't lag . The actions that your character 
 makes are probably the most amazing part of the game, especially when healing yourself. You us 
 pliers to pull bullets out of your leg, break fingers and feet back into place, as well as pull 
 pieces of metal out of your body. The reload actions are realistic as well, exactly how you would 
 reload it yourself. The weapon aging and reliability are a very important addition to the gameplay. 
 After much use of a weapon, it will start to jamming, which in the heat of battle is a misfortune 
 thing, but makes it even more real, and after a certain amount of use it will eventually explode 
 in your hands. Driving vehicles also is realistic in that you see from your characters view and 
 are able to look around as if you were driving. The map is also very innovative, in that it literally 
 is a map in the game world, along side a gps for direction.
  Sound- The sounds in the environment make it as if you were walking around the African Savannah 
 or jungle. The weapons all sound very real and all of the grunting and shrieks unbelievably real.
 
  All in all, a must buy for any lover of a realistic first person shooter, even if you haven't 
 played the original. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kesifer88
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 6, 2009 6:03 pm PT
Review:  This game is very addictive and is very fun to play from the begginning. It has an incredibly large 
 map and has many different fun missions and factions to interact with throughout the game. A large 
 supply of weapons you can buy with diamonds you either find or earn from missions. You can find 
 buddies who help you out in different creative ways as well. The game has a very destructive environment 
 and has a steady amount of vehicles for use. 
  Now those are all the good sides of the game now here are the bad sides. In trying to create the 
 game to be more realistic it caused it to be twice as unrealistic. It takes around 1 millions bullets 
 to kill one troop, if you shoot an ammo crate once it will explode into a bullet raining mess, 
 medicine will instantly work no matter what. When stablizing yourself you can endure great amounts 
 of pain and blood loss just to raise your health and take a mystery syringe that cures you of bullets 
 fire and broken bones. Finally you can repair any damage to any vehicle just by winding it up. 
 Obviously the unrealisticness of the game bothers me very little according my score for the game 
 but this may bother others.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: remixbaby44
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 6, 2009 5:00 pm PT
Review:  Far cry 2 is one of the most ambitious games ever released outside of bioshock. It's huge country 
 stretches out over 50 miles, and wherever you go, there will be something to do. I loved being 
 able to go to any weapons store and do a simple mission like kill a competitor's weapon shipment 
 to get new guns. The guns are pretty powerful, especially the rpgs. There were some issues though, 
 such as how randomly wandering enemies will attack you even if you don't want to fight. Weapon 
 degradation, while realistic, can be hard to get used to, especially when a shotgun or pistol jams 
 or completely dies in the middle of one of the games many challenging firefights. After your character 
 arrives in the country, he gets malaria. While it can be annoying to have to take pills once in 
 a while, it doesn't happen nearly as often as people think it does. Far cry 2's story is also interesting. 
 The tale of a mercenary playing both sides in a civil war is extremely relevent, especially is 
 some real parts of Africa nowadays. Another issue however, is the inability to fast-travel anywhere. 
 While you can take buses to places you've been, you'll still spend at least a third of your time 
 driving and killing the wandering enemies. Far cry 2 is a solid game, although there are some issues 
 i didn't expect to be in a big budget game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ctortolini
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 6, 2009 7:24 am PT
Review:  To the point... the obsession of Ubisoft to make this game look real has made it one of the most 
 annoying experiences you could try.
  
  First, you can't go anywhere in the freaking map without being shot by just anyone you cross by... 
 You are supposed to be a mercenary working for one side or the other... but no matter what, you 
 are shot by all people... even civilians. That makes going from anywhere to anywhere an extremely 
 obnoxious task and ends up taking all fluidity to the game.
  
  Second big problem: The healing system. Again, trying to make the process realistic, every time 
 you try to heal yourself, the process takes forever, leaving you open to enemy fire. Even being 
 covered isn't effective. Again, the experience gets very annoying and being a game where you can't 
 save anywhere but only in some (very scarce) safe houses, you end up re-doing a lot of stuff. (By 
 the way, we are in 2008, third gen-consoles, 21'st century... EVERY game should be able to save 
 at any point) .
  
  And finally... the really big issue... the story is not much good... the story missions are quite 
 repetitive and boring after some time.
  
  The good news is that Ubisoft, as always, delivers an ultra high quality graphic environment with 
 lots of detail... they could apply that same quality to better stories and get an extremely good 
 game... hopefully that would be the case in 2009...
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrfidget
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 5, 2009 4:49 pm PT
Review:  If you're reading this review because you're interested in purchasing this game because you enjoyed 
 Far Cry or Far Cry Instincts or any other game, you might want to consider another game. If you're 
 a fan of run-and-gun nonstop-action games like COD or Halo, you might want to consider another 
 game. In other words, if you're closed-minded and can't handle a unique game experience unlike 
 anything else ever made, you might want to consider another game.
  Being (as far as I know for videogames) (not counting the safari hunting games) a first, Far Cry 
 2 takes place in Africa. At first you may think, "Africa? Deserts with occasional trees? Sounds 
 BO-RING", but really, the environments are excellent. They are probably the best part of the game. 
 Standing at the top of a mountain overlooking a jungle, you can almost smell the fresh air.
  The single-player plot is really crappy, though. It's there at the beginning and end, but the plot's 
 pretty much non-existent throughout the game. You're new in the country, and have one goal: kill 
 The Jackal, an arms dealer supplying both sides in a war between two factions and stop the conflict. 
 There really is nothing special about the single-player missions. They are a repetitive formula 
 of 'go here, kill some guys or sabotage the mission for your own advantage with a friend'. The 
 whole game world itself is huge, and it's nice to drive around and enjoy the view, but every couple 
 minutes you'll come up to some post with guys who'll try to kill you. Scattered around the world 
 are diamonds. You can earn diamonds another way by completing missions. Diamonds can be used to 
 purchase weapons at the weapon shop (which also gives you missions to unlock new weapons) . The great 
 thing about the single player is once you load it up initially, there are no loading screens at 
 all, ever. The whole entire thing is also in first-person.
  The multiplayer component in pretty strong. Some of the factory maps are alright, but most of the 
 fun comes from playing user-made maps. This is where the game gets excellent.
  The map editor in FC2 is incredible. When you first get into it seems complex, but after some practice 
 you'll be totally fluent with it. The different tools are the Terrain Tools (bump, dig, smooth, 
 erode, set to height, noise (randomly generated natural-looking dips and dives in the landscape) , 
 the Object Tools (place object, edit object) , Collection Tools (paint randomly-generated forests, 
 rocks, bushes, etc) , Paint Tool (paint different textures onto the landscape) , Road Tool (place different 
 types of roads) , Snapshot Tool (take a picture that represents your map) , and The Playable Zone 
 tool (place a boundary for which players are restricted within.)
  The map editor is so awesome, that I've already dedicated over 100 hours just to making maps. Exchanging 
 maps between friends is a total blast. Your maps that are published have stats such as downloads 
 and rating.
  So, if you think that you can handle a game that isn't non-stop action and are interested in expressing 
 your creativity through an online map, Far Cry 2 might just be your cup of tea. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ulvenska
Rating: 6
Date: Jan 4, 2009 2:24 am PT
Review:  This game obviously has its fans, as it averages quite well in the reviews, but in my opinion it 
 is a game riding on the back of the shooter and sandbox fad, so it didn't have to be good to fair 
 well. 
  It has a couple of good points, mind you, but they're not as successful as others say, I find. 
 There are three claims to fame this game has; 
  1. On the game's cover, it claims "50km sq to explore". This is a half truth. I don't doubt the 
 statistic, but I dispute the explorative aspect. Most of the terrain is just shrubs and rocks. 
 Once you've seen one shrub, you've seen them all. There's next to nothing out there to interact 
 with. 
  I know that animals are becoming stripped of their numbers in real life in Africa, but this game's 
 sparseness is ridiculous. And the amimals aren't even worth interacting with, their reactions to 
 you and to bullet trauma are so boring.
  The humans are much the same. No personality. You can get them to shove you if you run into them, 
 but that's it. And this most populated of continents, Africa, is basically void of human activity. 
 Just drones standing around with gun, all of whom shoot at you for no reason whatsoever.
  2. "many ways to approach a mission". Fine, but none of them are effective at all. This is just 
 a shoot 'em up, except with more time and distance between the kills. Stealth is a waste of effort, 
 as the A. I seem to have God-like vision and hearing - they see you instantly from a mile away, 
 and know exactly where you are no matter how many rocks, trees and night-time darkness you put 
 between yourself and them. 
  And the damage recieved vesus given is stacked in their favour heavily, even on the easiest of 
 four levels. I've lost count of how many times I've unloaded 4-5 machine gun bulllets to their 
 head point blank (or close as can be) without them even getting the wobbles, let alone killed, 
 yet if you cop a bullet from a mile away, half your life disappears.
  3. Graphics. Well, this game looks good indeed, except for the fact that you can't see the most 
 impotant element of a game's graphics - the enemy. 
  
  Now, if I'd payed budget price for this game, I'd give it credit for living up to its intended 
 quality, but it's full-price, so it is deemed by me sub-par. Money-makers put this game together, 
 not artists. Everything good about this game is derivative of shooters from the first playstation 
 era (but better graphics) , and everything original about it ditracts from the game, like guns that 
 jam on you, and you getting malaria and having to get out some pills - MID-BATTLE! And they even 
 copied the disatrous ploy of GTA $ of sending you 12 minutes worth of travel time for each 1-2 
 minutes of mission advancing play, and depriving you of a convenient game saving system.
  On a value-for-money scale, I give this 3/10, but ignoring that, 6/10. This game is merely OK. 
 I'm putting alot of effort in just to try and enjoy this game. It's indeed quite boring, truth 
 be told, and frustratingly impractical to play. Welcome to mass-produced drivel designed purely 
 for financial reasons. 2008's games have been so over-rated - gamers must really be bored to be 
 giving such high ratings this year, GameSpot the biggest culprit. GTA 4 a 'perfect 10', this an 
 8.5?! Jeez they're getting sloppy with the standards!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ae86ben
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 1, 2009 10:42 pm PT
Review:  Firstly I have to say I was a big fan of Far Cry the original on PC. I spent many hours playing 
 through the single player and enjoyed every bit of it. Sad to say then, that Far Cry 2 did not 
 provide the level of gaming satisfaction I was looking for.
  
  The real dealbreaker for me were 2 things: one is the annoying travelling across the map, and the 
 second is the LACK OF RAGDOLL PHYSICS in the XBOX 360 version. 
  
  At first getting to travel around the African savannah in a jeep sounds like a great gameplay addition, 
 but needless to say it gets very repetitive and dull quickly. It was an absolute pain to have to 
 drive from location to location to see the next plot twist. An average of 2 to 5mins are wasted 
 between each firefight or action sequence or story reveal before the next thing happens. After 
 you weigh it up, you realise it's just not worth it.
  
  I couldn't believe that Far Cry 2 360 took out the ability to shoot dead bodies and move them! 
 Any game that tries to call themself a shooter needs to have FULL ragdoll physics, in motion and 
 when static. Far Cry 1 had this, Crysis had it, Steam games have it, Gears of War has this and 
 GTA4 does too. This extra level of interactivity, while may seem trivial, is a big factor for me. 
 Why did they go to the trouble of modelling trees and plantlife that can be shot up to sh*t (quite 
 realistically too) but took out the same level of realism for dead bodies?
  
  I was really looking forward to hunting down wildlife in this game, but when you actually try it 
 you'll be disappointed. When you shoot a zebra or a wildebeast they just topple over unconvincingly 
 like a block of animal-shaped wood. They don't react like a wounded animal or struggle or collapse 
 realistically at all.
  
  All in all, the game does bring some nice graphics, good weapons modelling, grand landscape and 
 relatively complex storyline. But pacing and interactivity let it down. I sold my copy on ebay 
 after 4 weeks and only 12 hours of play time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ForeinPotHead
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 31, 2008 7:58 pm PT
Review:  This game sure brought out its true features. With map making and being able to post them so the 
 world can not just looking at them but play on them to is awesome. The story is a great adventure 
 that will keep your head turning. This game is definitely a step up from the early Far Cry before 
 it. If i had to say something bad about the game is it would be a lot less traveling in the campaign 
 and a lot more freedom, the time you have to spend just roaming the land looking for an objective 
 is way to time consuming, especially if you don't have a vehicle. The online play is good, but 
 can get quite aggravating when it takes so long to level or get better upgrading weapons. The experience 
 works out so to reach the highest level (30) you need 1,000,000 exp. which is ridiculous if on average 
 every game you play you get 500 exp. and that's a good amount, and have to get a lot of kills/flag 
 scores every time you match up for a game. It also take quite a while to kill your opponent in 
 online play, sometimes you have to shoot a grenade at someone more then once, even if it lands 
 right next to there feet. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BodomBeachChild
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 31, 2008 12:25 pm PT
Review:  I don't care about Africa, so why bother with this game?
  
  Ha, anyways. I wanted a game where exploration and immersiveness and a good story would suck me 
 in. I was half dissapointed. The story... is, well, you have to kill someone. Peachy? I've restarted 
 the game twice... and I still don't have a clue about either side. I would have prefered to stick 
 with the lesser evil, but when I have no clue about anyone's intentions I feel rather disconnected 
 from the game. The game could have used more life in it. Like, actual civilians other than ones 
 hidden away in tiny buildings you only seen for a few seconds during missions. You can go to a 
 Dogon village, but where the hell are the Dogon people? They are real people after all. But when 
 you do find people they deliver their lines very fast, so it's really hard to understand what they 
 are trying to convey when they talk quitely and very fast.
  
  You should have been able to modify your guns. Who cares if this is Africa? If you can afford all 
 those guns, you can afford mods. Another gameplay breaker is invisible walls. Who's dumbass idea 
 was that to put invisible walls around awesome vantage points? So much for do whatever you want.
 
  
  Much like every other game by Crytek, this is a good tech demo. With all the talent they have (had?) 
 you'd think that they'd have better VA's, more options in what to do, better looking rain (worst 
 looking rain I've seen in a game in years) , and just more stuff in general. It's not really a bad 
 game though. I still get pretty immersed into it. I like it because I'm good at it. I can take 
 people out from far and close and never get caught. I can make my own routes. I can be me (for 
 the most part) and I'm good at being me. Therefore I like the me I am in this game and that makes 
 it worthwhile... except I dont think I'd ever blindly follow orders like you do in this game for 
 the factions. *SPOILERS*=====     Oh, they tried to kill me a while back. I wonder if they have 
 any jobs for me? *SPOILERS* That doesn't fly with me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AssassinExDeus
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 31, 2008 9:19 am PT
Review:  I am a Farcry nerd. I've played every game and wasn't sure about this new move to a NON island. 
 But this is the best game yet. Although it has some issues.
  
  Lets start with the cons.
  
  The story is kind silly after you play for awhile. I don't know who wrote it but while it makes 
 sense its just gets old after awhile. Another problem as with most games that are wide open is 
 traveling. I love traveling in this game but there are times when you are on mission that have 
 you travel across the map that you wish there was some sort of instant travel. There is a bus but 
 its limited to a few places.
  
  Which leads to another problem which IMO is the games biggest flaw.... patrols. Even near the end 
 of the game it seems no matter where you go there are infinite patrols! And trust me a jeep with 
 a turret kicks your butt like every few minutes. Its annoying when you often are on foot. They 
 really need to fix this issue so there are less patrols or something. 
  
  A lesser issue is the map maker is glitchy. Its more complicated I think then the last one they 
 had out for Farcry on Xbox 360 and it suffers from things that shouldn't happen although grant 
 it you an do more. 
  
  There is some other issues such as having silenced weapons seems to be useless... even at night. 
 You kill someone and everyone still knows where you are at. And its near impossible to sneak up 
 on people anyways.
  
  Lastly the weapons list (among other things) is so ridiculously long with thing to upgrade and 
 what not that its a waste of time to bother trying to upgrade everything just because first off 
 you'd have to hunt down every diamond in the game, second the game is to short and third.... you 
 can't continuing playing the game after you beat it.... so you essential waste time buying all this 
 stuff that could take days or weeks (in real time) .
  
  So even though that sounds like a alot of bad stuff don't let that scare you away this game is 
 still great and has alot to do. 
  
  Gameplay wise right from the start you can choose from a number of people (doesn't make a difference 
 really) . Once in game everything you do is up to you as with most games in this genre. And missions 
 can be done the way you want. Main missions you are actually given a choice such as kill the guy 
 in the limo (snipe him, blow up car... etc) or go kill some police chief in a building instead for 
 a better reward. Its pretty cool.
  
  And weapons and stuff have to be purchased, along with cars and other things. They and even yourself 
 can even be upgraded using diamonds you find or get from missions. There are obviously weapons, 
 cars, boats, hangliders.. etc in the game already but the good stuff need to be bought... it is Africa 
 after all. And trust me there is ALOT of stuff to choose from. Noisy weapons, silenced weapons, 
 pointy weapons, flamey weapons... lol. And weapons fall apart in game after enough use so be prepared 
 to run up to an enemy and knife him for his gun in hopefully better condition (and with ammo) .
 
  
  Graphically the game is amazing as any FC game is. You can play in day or night, which can be changed 
 when you sleep. And flames do a great job of spreading in dry places and on cars... etc. I imagine 
 through the game looks better on PC.
  
  Controls are pretty easy. 
  
  Audio isn't bad. The music is nice and changes depending on what your doing so its helpful. The 
 voices are so-so. 
  
  Online is good but most people have custom maps so most of the time your stuck downloading peoples 
 maps which is annoying when you just want to play online. 
  
  Overall the game is the best of the Farcry series but still has issues. Its replay value is pretty 
 good since it is a freeroamer and the missions can be played one of two ways... you'd have to play 
 twice to see how things go the other way. And with online that can be fun its worth it. Rent it 
 first to see if you like it. Buy it if your into free roamers! Just remember this isn't GTA or 
 Saints Row.... your in Africa. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cubeavor555
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 31, 2008 6:33 am PT
Review:  For me there is a point where video games ( far cry 2) become to "realistic" and incorporate to 
 many real world aspects. Some of those aspects though in games are good i. e (Call of Duty 4 , shooting 
 through thin walls and materials, Burn anything in Far Cry ) but Far Cry's realism just gets annoying 
 after a while , granted its still a great game im not saying its not , but the malaria , the driving 
 distances , the gun jamming. I play video games to escape from the real world for a few hours not 
 vise-versa. Anyway bottom line Far Cry is a good game , worth buying , but you might be annoyed 
 from certain aspects of it.
  
  Another thing that annoys me is no co-op a game like this screams co-op , but the online multi 
 player , is good providing you with a decent size variety of game modes, and its ranked so your 
 always playing with people that are the same rank as you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Camkillz
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 31, 2008 5:57 am PT
Review:  If you are not willing to use your brain and the tools the game provides then this is not the game 
 for you. If you were to combine COD and GTA together the game would look something like FC2. This 
 is what a FPS should be like. 
  
  Like any new game there is a learning curve that needs to take place. Aiming controls, and vehicles 
 are your first obstacles. You should be functional with these in about an hour. Next is the health 
 control. Even on NORMAL difficulty your body can not take many hits from the enemy. Unless you 
 have upgraded your weaponry I would not go in guns-a-blazin. The healing shots work well when you 
 can get to them in time. Cover for the healing process is a must. 
  
  After those 3 controls are smooth for you and you can start looking around at the scenery and the 
 vastness of the the game you really start to get addicted. The animals and the buildings. How the 
 towns are laid out. I love how non-linear this game is. 
  
  A couple of flaws... I like the story lines but the acting is just retarded. The speech is fast 
 and unemotional. If you here one African you have heard them all. 
  
  Close combat is not as satisfying as a lot of FPS. The closer you get to your enemy the dumber 
 they seem to become. They can spot you from a mile away but cant hear you on the other side of 
 a building? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigd575
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 30, 2008 10:33 am PT
Review:  I remember playing Far Cry: Instincts' for the first Xbox and it kind just blew me away because 
 it was just great. Then there was going to be a Far Cry to I couldn't wait to get my hands on this 
 one. I knew it had to be just as good or even better than the first one I played. But when it comes 
 down to it I some how feel like I didn't enjoy this on as much as I did Instincts. 
  
  First off the Graphics are really nice the landscape just looks amazing and seeing how stuff like 
 the fire acts and looks really gives it a realness look. Fire acts just like it would in real life 
 you can't control it. Another great thing is the sound it is wonderful hearing all of the different 
 sounds and stuff will make you appreciate them all. You got simple controls which is good you can 
 also upgrade weapons and you have a really big map to explore.
  
  Some of the things which I didn't like that much were you can't crawl and that's something which 
 I thought you should be able to do. The map editor is something that is fun to mess around with. 
 Off roading is crazy kind of hard to do, You also have long drives and I didn't like the voice 
 acting which it wasn't bad I didn't like it.
  
  Overall Far Cry 2 is a great game that a lot of people will like and other will just hate it. But 
 I do recommend that everyone who likes FPS at least give it a try. 
  
  Final score is 8.7
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wildboy124
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 28, 2008 1:17 am PT
Review:  The original Far Cry was, without a doubt, one of the best FPS released, and that is coming from 
 an exclusive list that includes Killzone, Crysis, and even Halo. Now, Ubisoft has now unleased 
 Far Cry 2, and it's pretty safe to say, there will be no mutants running after you in this.
  
  
  Far Cry 2's major change apart from the lack of Mutants is that the Island you were running 
 on before has been replaced with a massive 50 square kilometres of African Savannah, which has 
 deserts to explore, jungles to slash your way through, and small, but almost destroyed villages. 
 And no Mutants.
  People from Ubisoft went to Africa while creating Far Cry 2 to try catch a glimpse of what Africa 
 is really like, and they have done it and exceeded expectations. The games engine is a piece of 
 technology all games could benefit from in the future. Day turns to night, sunny days can turn 
 into rainy days, it's an absolute gem of an engine, but hang on. We should be expecting this from 
 the same company that made Crysis.
  
  
  Now, onto the story, where it really is more filler than thriller territory here. At the beginning 
 you start off by picking a character to play as during the game, which, for some reason, does not 
 involve the man seen on posters for Far Cry 2. It's not like it matters because you won't really 
 see your character after you've selected one, it's just a bit awkward. However, the rest of the 
 characters you could have chosen cleverly appear as 'Buddies'. More on that later. 
  Once you have selected someone to run around for you, the first thing that happens is a long trip 
 in the back of a cab to a hotel in Paia, where an infamous weapons dealer only known as ''The Jackal'' 
 is supposed to be. ''The Jackal'' is the main dealer of weapons who supplies to both sides of the 
 conflict, which are the A. P. R and the U. F. L. L.. Once you arrive at the hotel you succumb to an 
 illness and pretty much collapse.
  Soon after, ''The Jackal'' has tracked you down instead and have read your plans to terminate him. 
 But that will not be as easy as first though, especially since you happen to be suffering from 
 Malaria, which throughout the game will cause you to collapse if you do not have medication to 
 take, which means during the game you will have to do the Underground's work for them in order 
 to keep your symptoms at bay. Then, after ''The Jackal'' leaves, its then 50 hours of non-stop 
 Jackal hunting, because following where all the weapons are coming from will lead you to him.
 
  
  
  Now, onto graphics. Obviously if you own a well upgraded PC, then you will know which version of 
 the game to get, but with the Xbox 360 and PS3, it all comes down to taste. While both games look 
 outstanding on either console, there is a bit of a difference. Its not immediately recognisable 
 but if you look deeply into it you will find two differences.
  The Xbox 360 has a great level of detail put into its version of Far Cry 2, but the PS3 makes every 
 little detail stick out more. The only minor bug in the PS3 is the lighting, which is actually 
 improved upon in the Xbox 360 version. Your choice really, it still is a stunning looking game 
 to behold.
  
  
  Gameplay now, and if you have played an FPS before, then don't expect to be shocked. Its standard 
 FPS lively hood here, albeit with a couple of differences.
  Your health in the game can be replenished in taking a drug to boost your health, but you can only 
 carry a number of them at a time. More interestingly, if you only happen to have one section of 
 your health bar left, it will slowly decrease unless you fix the wound yourself, which comes in 
 the form or snapping your hand back into place, or pulling a bullet out of your leg. You can die 
 in this game, but you can have buddies help you out if you let them.
  
  
  Alright, Buddies then. Well, every good Mercenary knows that you are better off working by yourself, 
 but in Far Cry 2 you will need your Buddies. If you happen to have your health bar down to zero, 
 you will collapse onto the ground and die.
  However, if this does happen but you have asked a Buddy to help you, they will race to the scene 
 and help you get away from enemy fire and maybe even give you a weapon to use while you heal up. 
 Just keep your eyes and ears out, as while Buddies can help you, if they become injured, you have 
 to help them, usually by giving them one of your health boosters. Finding them isn't a problem, 
 as they release a blue flair showing you where they are. Or you can leave them there to fate, then 
 they will go ''Missing'' or they will just be dead. Oh, and on some occasions, when you try to 
 revive them, they may just end up dying, and for Xbox 360 owners, that results in an achievement 
 called 'Goodnight Sweet Prince'. Zing!
  Also, when you do happen to have a mission, your buddies can ring you up and tell you there may 
 be an alternative way to do a mission than what you have been told to do. It usually makes missions 
 longer, but it does make them easier. Just expect to bust your Buddy out of a fire fight at the 
 end of the mission. Or not.
  
  
  I could go on about what you can do in Far Cry 2, because not only is it very entertaining, its 
 created a new benchmark for future FPS releases in terms of game engines, graphics and freedom. 
 It's hard to describe, so I'll say this: There is a reason that the original Far Cry was so successful. 
 What Ubisoft has done is completely reinvent the brand of Far Cry, and if this trend continues 
 in their future releases, it surely would not be long before they are recognised as the company 
 that produces the best FPS in the world.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: SSBFan12
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 27, 2008 9:35 am PT
Review:  This game takes place in the african mountains. You can choose the character that you want to be 
 out of two mercenaries. The game is all about stopping this huge war out there in Africa. The missions 
 are simple but most of them are far away to get to and your health is not the best in the game 
 cause it runs down really quickly. And you also have this disease that you have medicine for but 
 not that much so you might also have to do some missions to get medicine but it gets annoying quickly. 
 But to gain more health there are usually aid boxes and you get this needles that gain you more 
 health. The game also have these safe house that you can gain by killing the enimies around it. 
 At the safe house you save and there will be one of your friends there that you gain in the story 
 that will help you and they even have a mission for you. If you gain friends in the game which 
 you will cause you have to so you can complete the story. They will help you when you are killed. 
 Also in the game you have to save alot cause if you get killed and your friends don't help you 
 then you have to go back to the last save spot. And the game deosn't have that much save spots. 
 The enimies in the game are alittle hard to kill cause it takes forever to kill them. Most of the 
 area in Africa is enimie territory and they will shoot you no matter what. There are also enimie 
 territories that if you enter you will get shot at no matter what. So the game is abit hard to 
 play if you are new.
  
  The good of the game is that there is alot of freedom to approach each mission. Robust map editor 
 on three versions. There are plenty to do in the game.
  
  The bad of the game is there is not that much save spots. Traveling long stretches can become tedious. 
 The missions are not so good.
  
  Overall this game is really good but if you are new to the series don't play this one yet. This 
 game gets a 8.5 outta 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: compuy65
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 26, 2008 7:22 pm PT
Review:  This game is a fantastic game, great graphics, great AI, the only thing that sucks is that you 
 have a huge play-land to play in, but you can't veer off the given path!!! This is a very restricted 
 open world game, thus giving it a 9.0 instead of a 10.0. This could really be a 10 game, but it 
 HAS to resolve this problem! If ubisoft is listening, PLEASE come out with an update for this game! 
 However this has to be one of the best games I have ever played! By the way, I am just filling 
 words so I don't have to type any more lines of review. So have a good time playing this game, 
 a definite buy! AAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAA AAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAA AAAAAAAAAAAAAAA AAAAAAAAAAAAAAA 
 AAAAAAAAAAAAAAA AAAAAAAAAAAAA AAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAA AAAAAAAA AAAAAAA AAAAAAAA AAAAAAAAAAAA AAAAAAA 
 AAAAAAAAAAAAAAA AAAAAAA AAAAAAAAAAAA AAAAAAAAAAA AAAAAAA 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarthTowhead
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 26, 2008 10:20 am PT
Review:  Despite this game feeling impossible for the first little while, as soon as you get used to the 
 gameplay, its an absolute hoot! The graphics are amazing, and you have 50sq km's to explore. The 
 ability to do missions in whatever way you want is great, lighting a grassfire and letting it spread 
 to your target, sniping at night, or just straight up run and gun... they're all fun to do.
  The only real downsides are that you have malaria, but that really doesn't bother me much at this 
 stage, and the amount of driving. The driving is really well done, and quite enjoyable actually, 
 its just that there are only a few fast-travel points, so you have to drive quite a distance to 
 do most missions.
  At this point I haven't tried the multiplayer, but the Map Editor is really fun and easy to use.
 
  Overall, it's one of the best single player experiences I've ever had. In my opinion, its only 
 competition is Oblivion, Fallout 3, and Bioshock. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NBAmaster33
Rating: 6
Date: Dec 23, 2008 2:22 pm PT
Review:  Having never played the first Far Cry game, I wasn't sure if I should buy the game or not, since 
 I wouldn't understand the plot. Then I learned that Far Cry 2, a highly-anticipated first-person 
 shooter to come out this fall, has nothing to do with its predecessor. Instead of a tropical island, 
 Far Cry 2's setting is an unnamed African nation engulfed in civil war. There's tons of potential 
 out of the setting, but the overall game structure is poorly designed and very tedious, preventing 
 Far Cry 2 from being whole-heartedly recommendable.
  
  At the beginning of the campaign, you'll be able to choose between several different characters, 
 but it doesn't make a difference because this is a first-person shooter. You're sent to an unnamed 
 African country to find a wanted mercenary known only as "The Jackal." In order to do this, you'll 
 have to work for various factions to trace the supply line back to your target. Complicating things 
 is the fact that your character has Malaria. Why would the developers make your character have 
 a disease? To add on with the African setting? It certainly doesn't help during combat, and it 
 becomes annoying to do extra missions for Malaria pills. The story is delivered in such a rushed 
 manner that you never get attached to the characters at all.
  
  Far Cry 2 is very much a sandbox game. The game gives you a daunting 50 square kilometers of landscape 
 to explore. One problem I have with it is that the landscape isn't very varied. You'll mainly stumble 
 through jungles and open plains, with the exception of a guard post or two, but it's all very spread 
 out. The most important problem I have with the landscape is that it's far too big. There aren't 
 that many efficient ways to get around the environment with. Sure, there's cars, but they're far 
 apart, not very fast, and vulnerable to an attack from guards. When this happens, you'll be forced 
 to get out of your car, kill off the enemies, and get back in the car, provided it didn't get blown 
 up in the process. The mission design -- like GTA 4-- requires you to kill people or blow some stuff 
 up. However, most of the missions require you to travel far distances, and there's nothing worse 
 than to arrive at the location, only to be run over by a car or to be sniped from an outpost.
 
  
  The combat itself isn't all that great. Most of the guns you buy tend to jam, creating a major 
 problem when you're fending off several enemies at a given time. Far Cry 2 is a very realistic 
 game, except for the insane amount of damage your enemies take during combat. It'll take around 
 ten or fifteen AK-47 bullets to kill one enemy sometimes -- how fun is that? You're health system 
 isn't like Call of Duty. There are several sections of a bar of health on the left side of the 
 screen. The bar will go down when you take damage. If the bar blinks read, you'll have to perform 
 some self-surgery, whether it be yanking a bullet out of your leg or pushing a broken arm back 
 into place. Another complicating factor is that there are no mission checkpoints. While that was 
 a problem in GTA 4, it's several times worse in this game, considering how far you have to travel 
 to get to the objective. Repeat this tedious and frustrating process for thirty hours or so and 
 you've got Far Cry 2's story mode.
  
  The multiplayer is pretty standard. There's variations of Team Deathmatch, Deathmatch and Capture 
 the Flag, but that's about it. The same gameplay problems are in the multiplayer, hindering the 
 experience. Enemies take way too long to kill. To explain how long it takes to kill your opponent, 
 it's like fighting against someone in Call of Duty 4 with 5 juggernaut perks and 3 last stand perks 
 on. Imagine how long that takes! There's a map editor, which is very neat. You'll be able to create 
 your own maps and include any objects you desire in it, much like in Halo 3, except you can create 
 maps from scratch. That's the only unique thing about the game.
  
  The audiovisual presentation is superb. The environments are highly detailed, and the game has 
 a steady frame rate throughout. The visuals may not be the best I've seen on the 360 to date, but 
 they're -- at the very least -- always interesting to look at. The audio is great also, with high quality 
 gun effects and intense voice acting.
  
  Far Cry 2 does have a unique atmosphere. Unfortunately, there aren't any fun things to do in it. 
 The missions are repetitive and the map is simply too big. Far Cry 2 is an adequate shooter that 
 may be worth looking into as a rental, but certainly not at the full price. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lahdeedah
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 23, 2008 10:28 am PT
Review:  Let get this straight - Far Cry 2 has some of the best graphics ever. The only game that I might 
 top this is Metal Gear Solid 4. 
  
  The story isn't too interesting I must say. You just spend your whole time trying to find this 
 guy.
  
  I like the whole buddy system where you can get buddies as you go through the game, and they help 
 you out with your missions. They also give you side mission. If you want to buy guns then you buy 
 them with diamonds which you earn after completing missions through out the game.
  
  There are a wide variety of guns, and the driving isn't as bad as people are making it sound. "IT 
 TAKES 5 HOURS TO DRIVE THERE!!!!!!" It takes 20 seconds. Quit whining. The only way for it to take 
 5 hours (5 minutes) is if you walk.
  
  Overall, Far Cry 2 is an amazing game that you can't miss! There are better, but it's definetly 
 worth it, believe me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Andreaz92
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 22, 2008 6:11 am PT
Review:  Far Cry 2 has stunning graphics and really good gameplay. There are a lot of things to do in this 
 open-world game, and Africa is amazing. The weapons jams and they can explode in your hands during 
 a combat: it's simply one of the most realistic thing i've ever seen in a videogame. You can do 
 what you want! The graphics are one of the best iv'e ever seen after Crysis: amazing and realistic. 
 By the way this game it's still not perfect: the A. I sometimes is good, and sometimes it's not. 
 Sometimes it's awesome, and sometimes can be boring..... By the way, Far Cry 2, is one of the best 
 shooter of this year and i think you must try it.
  
  
  GOOD THINGS
  - Stunning graphics and fire propagation
  - Open-world 
  - Immersive
  - A lot of weapons 
 
  
  BAD THINGS 
  - The A. I is not perfect
  - Sometimes can be boring
  - Some bugs and glitches
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: savestheday1000
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 21, 2008 1:28 pm PT
Review:  This game is good This game is good This game is good This game is good This game is good This 
 game is good This game is good This game is good This game is good This game is good This game 
 is good This game is good This game is good This game is good This game is good This game is good 
 This game is good This game is good This game is good This game is good This game is good This 
 game is good This game is good This game is good This game is good This game is good This game 
 is good This game is good This game is good This game is good This game is good This game is good 
 This game is good This game is good This game is good This game is good This game is good This 
 game is good This game is good This game is good This game is good This game is good This game 
 is good This game is good This game is good This game is good This game is good This game is good 
 This game is good This game is good This game is good This game is good 
::::::

::::::
UserName: picklesrocks
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 21, 2008 12:26 pm PT
Review:  Farcry 2 is the sequel to the original farcry and maintains the games reputation for great graphics 
 and realism, but unlike the first it is not insanely difficult which helps attract casual gamers 
 aswell as harcore players but all in all farcry 2 is an awesome game which helps take the FPS genre 
 a step forward rather than backwards.
  
  Gameplay: Farcry 2's general gameplay is outstanding with awe inspiring graphics and realistic 
 gameplay, unlike other games you play the game entirely from your characters perspective only seeing 
 his legs and hands/arms which helps add to the feel this may sound like its copying half life but 
 dont worry unlike that its good. Like i said earlier the graphics in farcry 2 are gorgeous with 
 only a few shadow glitches every so oftern and sometimes you see random floating objects but thats 
 about it, weapons on the game are balanced well except for the G3KA4 which is the first assault 
 rifle you get but still thats no excuse to make it that stupidly underpowered but apart from that 
 its fine. The AI are smart aswell working with each other and reacting to the environment and your 
 decisions, You also get some buddies aswell who save you when you are critically wounded and help 
 you on mission but they leave something to be desired. But heres the best thing about farcry 2, 
 the fire. It is such a fun thing to use, for example if a sniper is giving you trouble throw a 
 molotov near him and flush him out as the fire spreads but unfortuantely it doesnt spread as far 
 as you hope it would. And then theres malaria, its an interesting mechanic but ultimately leaves 
 you asking how on earth you got it in the first place because it litterally appears but still its 
 a fine addition and adds to the realism. But the only problem with this is that the story is really 
 shallow and doesn't get anywhere near as good as it could have been but its still a great enough 
 set up to kill loads of people in interesting ways.
  
  Sound: Farcry 2 does very well in this department with the wildlife alive with the sound of crickets 
 and other animals screaming and communicating to each other and the crackling of fire adds to the 
 pile too, gunfire though for some weapons the G3 in particular sounds weak while some sounds awesome 
 like the RPG as the rocket blows open a car and sends a group of soldiers flying through the air. 
 The sound as your character shivers when his malaria kicks in is convincing too as that cursed 
 yellow flocks around the screen.
  
  Multiplayer: I admit i have had little experince here but the class based combat and map maker 
 tool which by the way is very good add to the online community which is bristling with new maps 
 and great competition as you enter the fray of yet another fight worrying that if that fire is 
 coming your way.
  
  Other: The only real important part of this is that the map editor is really good and felxible 
 on the version i have played it on which is the xbox 360 and was simple to use and surprised me 
 on how good it was. The only other thing is that on this game just about EVERYONE is trying to 
 kill you no matter what which is a bit dumb but gives you a good reason to blow their head off.
 
  
  Conclusion: Farcry 2 is an outstanding game and should be played by anyone who wants to play a 
 solid shooter so go ahead i advise it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: K1LL3R-SH0T
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 21, 2008 9:46 am PT
Review:  I bought the game after seeing it on sale in a local game store, I had loved Far Cry 1 and predator 
 and I was excited about this. 
  
  My first impressions of the game where great, I loved the idea of free roaming and driving to your 
 missions across the jungle and sand setting's of Africa, however it did get repetitive.
  
  The game starts for your journey from an airport back to your hotel in the city of Pala, after 
 that goes wrong your left defending yourself from a number of enemies and your left to collect 
 medicine for your disease, which is a pain in the ass. Once you first get your hands behind the 
 wheel the camera angle does strain from time to time, however you will get too grips with it after 
 a while. Driving too your missions can be frustrating over the fact that you are attacked at almost 
 every second in your journey. The dense terrain and the crowded jungle doesn't exactly make it 
 the easiest place to manoeuvre.
  
  The biggest crown for the game is the map editor, making your own maps then sharing them with your 
 friends is great and is fun too. Downloading a wide variety of maps from the Internet grants you 
 a never-ending experience with your online play.
  
  This game is for the adventurous gamers and half-heartily for the more hardcore gamers. Buy it, 
 this is a game not too be missed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Minion123
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 21, 2008 1:47 am PT
Review:  Far Cry is a series that I have been in love with since the first one. The original Far Cry for 
 the PC as well as Instincts for the Xbox were both great games and The main character Jack Carver 
 as well as his feral powers in Instincts were what got me hooked.
  
  Far Cry 2 basically takes all that to a dark alley and quietly slits its throat. What we have instead 
 is a cardboard cut out with a Far Cry 2 logo slapped over the face.
  
  Graphics- A "Far Cry" from the original, har har. Overall very impressive, I only have it for the 
 360 but they are probably some of the best of any 360 game I have ever played. Though its much 
 debated "rival" game Crysis does have the edge hands down from what I have seen. Draw distances 
 are fairly vast and the jungles feel very lush and real. It is truly an immersive game aesthetically.
 
  
  Gameplay- A typical shooter I suppose. One gripe I have with it is that there seems to be no way 
 to change the sensitivity, and your character has a habit of turning unusually slow horizontally 
 at random times, seems like a glitch almost. Fire propagation is awesome though. It is certainly 
 something to through a molotov and watch a whole plot of forest get caught up in fire along with 
 a couple baddies :) Vehicles however drive like toys. There is no "real" feeling to any of them 
 and explosion physics is a joke! I think I've seen PS2 games do better. 
  
  A. I- Definitely a let down, basically mentally challenged men with supersonic hearing and vision. 
 If you are anywhere in the vicinity they will here you and look for you even if you haven't made 
 any noise when taking cover in a brush. Yet sometimes I can be wide in the open crouching and walk 
 up right behind them without any problems. Also when faced with certain situations they completely 
 freeze up and do randomly dumb things which when immersed in the game really kills your buzz.
 
  
  Singleplayer- Most disappointing part of the game. The first couple hours are WONDERFUL. And from 
 there it all goes downhill. Missions are all the same no matter what the objective is. GO here, 
 KILL enemies, and sometimes RECOVER random artifact. Gets very repetitive and boring after awhile.
 
  
  Multiplayer- This is why I kept the game. The best way I can describe it is being COD 4/5. The 
 controls all feel very familiar and the multiplayer is very addicting. Many of the maps are fun 
 and balanced, deathmatch and team deathmatch, as well as capture the diamond (flag) are good. Hopefully 
 the online community will have consistent numbers as it really is the saving grace for this game.
 
  
  I would say a good buy if you like COD style multiplayer, otherwise a decent rent.
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dfooster
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 20, 2008 8:13 pm PT
Review:  after the first couple of hours gameplay i was ready for leaving this game and not bothering with 
 it. i couldnt even get to the first couple of missions for dying on route and it was becoming a 
 real chore. then suddenly it clicks what you must do and how to avoid certain conflicts and how 
 to turn the ambushed into the ambusher and after a while you realise getting to the places you 
 need to be in the massive open gameworld is in fact an adventure in itself and is where alot of 
 the fun can be found.
  
  there is no greater feeling of gaining the high ground and having the enemy in your sights and 
 formulating a plan on how to take out multiple enemies in one swift attack and seeing it work!!
 
  
  the environmental effects and graphics are superb, the way trees and plants catch fire and spread 
 with the wind or the way the trees blow in the wind during a storm really is a beakthrough and 
 emerses you in the gameworld, or the way you can see your characters hands interacting with objects 
 etc is a great addition.
  
  on the downside the game could lack that certain stand out moment that is memorable although i 
 have still a way to go yet so maybe i will see it but its all a little by the numbers so far but 
 even so this is an exciting game nonetheless.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: andywongusa
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 20, 2008 2:23 pm PT
Review:  FC2 is just a tough and realistic FPS to blow your mind and kill your time to feel the battlefield 
 and surrounding of enemies from everywhere. We do not need the unrealistic save time during the 
 battle since our only save time is to sleep and we need to fight to live, not save to live. We 
 do not need sub-content to blur the difference between adventure and FPS since FC2 set up the hallmark 
 of next-gen FPS with a large beautiful world to travel and to appreciate. If you think shooting 
 is repetitive, do not play any FPS game since every game of this genre is shooting and killing 
 so say good bye to video games for anyone who though FC2 is repetitive!
  
  The nameless African country is indeed very large and requiring a long journey to drive however 
 it offers us more flexibility to adventure and to fight in the woods, in the shanty town and in 
 the nameless desert. We could sense the realistic feeling during every moves in the game even though 
 we were strained in nowhere, however I do not think we could be run over by a car after a long 
 on-foot journey since every time I need a vehicle I could find plenty of chances to acquire a bunch 
 of vehicles from the patrols and on-site soldiers since the strongholds are covered everywhere 
 and I never feel lonely in the worn-torn area and the everyone-is-enemy country.
  
  To accomplish every mission, we will tap every potential of our strategic plan to acquire lots 
 of strongholds and also threaten some losers in order to finish some miserable lives of the mercenaries 
 in each fraction of the country. The story gave us an intense and unparalleled plot setting with 
 a malaria-ridden protagonists to search a bastard arms dealer so every acts in the story made us 
 surrounded by different circumstances: to apply or to deny, to mercy kill or to massacre and to 
 choose or to force. So we will at last satisfy ourselves with the intensive gun play combat and 
 the appreciation of the one of most gorgeous graphics or just scenery from a video game interface 
 (1080p on Xbox360) . What else should we need from a video game? I think we just need to fight with 
 our favorite guns and never die! 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Engage28
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 17, 2008 5:36 pm PT
Review:  Game of the Year? No. Game that you will play all year long? Yes. Far Cry 2 has the makings of 
 a champion first-person shooter. The immersive, open-ended storyline will consume anyone eager 
 to strategize and plan assaults on their enemies, whereas the highly-addictive multiplayer will 
 keep you occupied for long periods of time with its new class system and rankings. I have heard 
 some complain about the inability to keep their earned weaponry during non-ranked matches, and 
 the reason is fairly obvious.. it is not ranked and what you earn may or may not have been earned 
 fairly. A fair and balanced multiplayer game of this caliber should not be overlooked by anyone 
 with the slightest interest. If you are like myself, sick of the completely ridiculous matches 
 found on games like Gears of War 2, where bullets may or may not affect enemies, you may be willing 
 to give this game a try. I have found that the more you play, the more you want to play. Perhaps 
 this is the making of a great game, one which encourages the player to alter his/her ideal strategy 
 on a round-by-round basis, simply to ensure maximum fun is found. The weaponry in this game is 
 great, certain weapons do not typically leave you guessing why they're allowed, and when killed 
 you aren't left to wonder how. The realism of which FC2 attempts to attain is quite enjoyable when 
 realized. It may take some time to get a grip on the multiplayer, yet with the unexplainably amazing 
 map editor you can set yourself apart and make something all players will enjoy. It is this sense 
 of freedom, this pure feeling of endless creativity, that keeps you entertained. Also, you may 
 find that all is not lost within the single-player storyline. The game does a great job of allowing 
 the player to explore at their own pace and discover things while accomplishing objectives and 
 missions with a great feeling of pride and victory. Outsmarting an entire camp of enemies is an 
 undeniable thrill, and the factors influencing how and when you do this are blatantly cool. I know 
 this review may not summarize all the high points of Far Cry 2, however I intend to leave all my 
 readers with an honest opinion because I pay the same sixty dollars the rest of you do for these 
 titles. Far Cry 2 is one of the greatest shooters I have played in the past year. I am tired of 
 developers getting lazy and leaving the player out when it comes to multiplayer, and sick of plots 
 that do nothing to motivate players to complete the main story. I believe this game differs from 
 other games in so many ways that it is necessary to experience it. The graphics and gameplay are 
 designed with realism; not the realism that you may expect, but the kind that ensures you get that 
 headshot, and ensures that if you are behind cover, you are not randomly blown to pieces without 
 reason. This game is the real deal and when compared to the others, completely blows them away. 
 As I always say, give this game a chance, because it may just be the last game you purchase for 
 a while. =) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -CANUCK-
Rating: 6
Date: Dec 16, 2008 9:30 am PT
Review:  Far Cry 2 : A supposed open-world first person shooter that lets the player go anywhere and betray 
 anyone, because these are the aspects that appeal to players apparently.
  
  Story : The game makes you choose one of 8-odd playable characters, with no discernable difference 
 between any of them other than appearancewhich doesn't mean anything either considering how you 
 are playing a FIRST PERSON shooter. The goal of your mercenary is to hunt down a fellow known as 
 The Jackal, who's been giving both sides of some conflict in an unnamed African nation weapons. 
 Either you're trying to stop this weapons flow as a means to bring in peace or you're stopping 
 it because the weapons he's sending to these people are shoddy and tend to jam, that much is never 
 made clear.
  
  In case you were wondering, the other reason I developed an interest in Far Cry 2 is hearing that 
 it has nothing to do with Far Cry 1. None of that nonsense about a generic guy in a nice shirt 
 with feral powers rescuing some lady from some mercenary group who just happen to be harvesting 
 giant monsters. While Far Cry 2 has some presence of a story, your interest in it will depend on 
 how interested you are in hearing monologues from a generic batch of mercenaries and other ethnic 
 evil types.
  
  Far Cry 2 stands tall and proud on two legs of promise: Reality and open-endedness. These seem 
 to be two buzzwords that gamers get all excited about upon hearing. While I personally have nothing 
 against games that are striving to be more unique than the last Mega Man game which I was completely 
 jumping for joy with, sometimes one should be asking what makes these goals so significant, and 
 if such goals make sense in the context of the game in question. In the case of Far Cry 2, these 
 dreams seem to collide with each other a good deal.
  
  In my mind, the challenge of having an open-ended world is to fill it with interesting aspects 
 that the player wants to toy with. Grand Theft Auto made its reputation on giving the player a 
 city filled with innocents to slaughter and cars to jack and smash. All the while, the cities were 
 filled with fake restaurants, hidden weapons, hidden drugs, killing spree missions and so forth. 
 It wasn't realistic but that was the point; you were rewarded for examining this open space with 
 fun.
  
  The vision behind Far Cry 2 seems to be to recreate a believable rendition of a war-torn African 
 nation. To this I propose the question  why do I want to explore a war-torn African nation? Most 
 of this land is comprised of empty jungle, pathways surrounded by trees in areas with nothing of 
 interest surrounding them. Villages, guard posts and anything of note are spread considering far 
 apart, and trying to get from one area to another takes a long-as-hell time on foot. The game has 
 some cars to drive, but they're far apart, not very fast, and vulnerable to the occasional random 
 attack from enemy insurgents. Your trip to your desired location will always be halted by an enemy 
 attack, which forces you hop out of your vehicle and fight back, lest your ride be totaled by their 
 gunfire and you find yourself stranded in the middle of nowhere.
  
  I'd otherwise be cool with the attempts at realism, but most of them feel more like the developers 
 showing off than anything else. For example, your character will develop a case of MALARIA. Why? 
 To make the experience feel that much moreAfrican? To force the player into picking up some pills 
 every now and then? To show off the orange-like effect of your player having a malaria attack? 
 Likewise, when you're character is low on health, he'll need to find some cover so that he can 
 grab some pliers and pull a bullet out of his leg or one of his appendages. This is viscerally 
 impressive, but it makes me wonder why the thirty other bullets in his head and chest aren't as 
 threatening to him. The enemies are fairly smart, and the game is realistic in the sense that going 
 in guns blazing will lead to your death. In any other game, that'd be just fantastic, but this 
 goes back to the whole idea of this game being open-endedand making me wonder why I want to explore 
 this game world when all that's waiting for me is a painful death.
  
  Alas, where this game shines, or at least where it could've shined, is in the realistic gun combat. 
 Your character is by no means a walking tank that can regenerate all of his health by standing 
 behind a rock for five seconds. Attacking an enemy stronghold requires a bit of planning, picking 
 out the best angles of attack, plotting out strategic points like sniper positions and the obligatory 
 exploding barrels before leaping in and making your strike. Because of this, this game operates 
 on more of a trial and error type of mentalitywhich is completely negated by the absence of a 
 checkpoint or quick save system. Once you lose all your health and die (twice over, as whomever 
 your friend is at the time will come and make an overly-scripted rescue on your first death, which 
 you will be completely sick of soon enough) , you're forced to restart from your last save point, 
 which could be miles away from the mission objective. The open-ended dilemma strikes again! Your 
 character happens to be a bit delicate too; nothing sucks like finally arriving at the mission 
 objective, only to get run over by a car and have to make the journey all over again.
  
  Apparently, the PC version of Far Cry 2 does have the quick-save feature that you'll so badly need 
 here. So if you opt to play the PC version of Far Cry 2, feel free to add an extra half star to 
 the score, or full star if this concept of a malaria-stricken soldier who makes lengthy trips from 
 one post to another, while praying he doesn't get ambushed appeals to you. But the game suffers 
 from bad design, being based on some bizarre combination of assorted gamers' dreams of what advanced 
 technology should do for a game, regardless of whether or not these dreams collide with each other. 
 But ultimately, I feel that Far Cry 2 will occupy the same space as Far Cry 1, FEAR, Crysis, Doom 
 3, Quake 4 and many, many other first person shooters that existed more for developers to brag 
 about their newest technologies and players to brag about their newest video cards. Impressive 
 for their time, but long forgotten when the next big shooter came out.
  
  Pros : An otherwise conventional online multiplayer mode is made more interesting with the addition 
 of solid map editors that lets players design and easily upload new levels.
  
  Cons : Whether you like it or not, all of the new levels will be set in the same African country 
 setting as the rest of the game.
  
  3 stars
  
  At first, I was concerned that this game was going to be an all-too-late cash-in on the "trend" 
 of being conscious about blood diamonds, and was ready to label this game as "missing the boat" 
 as Kanye West had long since progressed from the days of Late Registration. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spoons23
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 15, 2008 3:45 pm PT
Review:  Among the greats this year such as Gears of War 2, Fallout 3, and GTA IV this year, this is one 
 of the best. With nice gameplay mechanics, beautiful enviroments, and great character designs, 
 not to mention an engageing storyline and addicting multiplayer, puts this at one of the best to 
 ever hit the 360 on which I played it on. Let's break it down into parts and ratings.
  
  The story: 
  Well you play as a mercenary hired and sent to an unnamed country in Africa to kill 
 an arms dealer named the Jackal. Not to mention that there is a war going on by two factions and 
 he's been suppling both the sides. I love the story and just about all the characters you meet 
 on your way. Oh , almost forgot, you have a choice of 9 characters in the beginning but this has 
 no affect on the rest of the game. In my opinion only the greatest writers can achieve this without 
 changing the story for this one character.9/10.
  
  The graphics:
  Well if you have read anything in this review, you should know that these graphics are simply amazing.10/10.
 
  
  Multiplayer: 
  Now this obviously is not the main focus of the game but it is amzing. And it is strangely addicting. 
 I would ask for more variety though.8/10.
  
  Overall I would give this game a 9.5/10. Its an instant classic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Copperhead89
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 13, 2008 7:02 pm PT
Review:  Its hard to say if i do or don't like this game, its different to most. It feels like Im playing 
 Cabela's Big Game Hunter except all the animals were replaced with angry Africans with machine 
 guns & shotguns. Its also similar toJust Causejust without all the stunts. 
  
  The graphics are good, but im not that obsessive over graphics.
  If they would have a radio with 
 some good music it would greatly help out the game but unfotunaltly your stuck with safari music 
 which stops & starts whenever it feels like it. 
  
  I started playing it on Hardcore (hard) difficulty but recently changed to infamous (very hard) 
 and now i think the A. I. has been given too much credit. I thought is was gonna be realistic but 
 they still seem pretty stupid, just act like their slightly smarter. We can both die easily which 
 is good but the action just doesn't seem to last long. So it's more like drive for a while & then 
 kill a few guys (usually 2-5) then drive some more. The shootouts are fun & the npc's do take cover 
 & move around unlike in many other games but the problem is that everyone keeps giving them so 
 much credit that you will really expect a hard fight against them every time, which is not the 
 case here.
  
  If you like Big game hunter & slow fps's then you will enjoy this, i guess i just got over them. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Slipknot4life12
Rating: 4.5
Date: Dec 12, 2008 8:48 pm PT
Review:  This may be the most dissapointing game of 2008. I loved the first far cry games, so i was dying 
 for this one to come out. Unfortuanatly when it did I just plain hated it. First off it has no 
 interesting plot, ohh go kill 10,000 drug dealers over and over again for hours. Like I said its 
 repetitive your doing the same exact thing and the travelling only makes it worse. Now the entire 
 game isnt that bad, the multiplayer is pretty fun but there are better games out there like Cod 
 4 and 5, the rainbow 6 games, and even gears of war. So take my advice and dont buy this game. 
 Mabey rent it but once you return it trust me youve had enough. Now the multiplayer map editor 
 is the only thing fun about the multiplayer, for the actual compitition itself not so good. You 
 may like it but please dont go out and buy it, rent it first. You cant trust those good reviews. 
 Trust me you will be very dissapointed in this game. I cant stress how important it is to not waste 
 your money on junk like this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: redpatterson
Rating: 1
Date: Dec 12, 2008 12:56 am PT
Review:  Rarely works and when it does, it isn't fun. SP is OK if you can get past the first load video 
 (which for me happens 1/2 the time) but the MP is the biggest waste of development effort I've 
 seen since red faction 2 - pass this one by if you're in it for MP. Rent it if you're in it for 
 SP. The developers (ubisoft montreal) claim to have taken it in a whole new direction, and like 
 "a fine wine" (says the producer) will improve with age. Well, like wine, if you have too much, 
 you get sick. Anyone who even thinks this game keeps the flair of farcry 1 will be especially disapointed. 
 Now, since gamespot FORCES your review to be X characters long, I gotta fill the space in somehow. 
 Blah blah blah blah blah blah blah... and i there yet? Blah blah blah blah blah ... who's stupid 
 idea was this? Blah blah blah blah blah blah blah. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: atlbraves5656
Rating: 5
Date: Dec 11, 2008 9:29 pm PT
Review:  I dont know. Maybe i am missing something. Online pay is garbage. They try to make the game user 
 friendly and for the most part they are successful. You can vote to extend game and change teams 
 not to mention the great map editor. But one BIG problem. Why cant you keep you weapons in a non-ranked 
 match? I looked for everyway to save it but i honestly dont see it. That screws up the game. Because 
 of this, i only have 20 Gamerpoints towards the game. The loading time is horrible in between matches 
 and while you are looking for matches. The graphics are above average but COD beats it no problem. 
 The gameplay isnt as smooth as it should be. Though i must admit, they got away from the everyday 
 first person shooter. the idea of healing yourself on site is excellent. There are multiple techniques 
 so you dont get the same one over and over again. The weapon deterioration is a great idea. Guns 
 need to be worn down and break though that more directly affects singleplayer rather than muliplayer. 
 Last but not least, there is absolutly no proning. That is great because the foliage is so thick, 
 anyone proning would be very difficult to see. That would lead to a ton of camping and hiding. 
 Overall, would i recommend this game to a friend? No, i would not. The Multiplayer has a serious 
 flaw that ruins gameplay and the single player isnt that catchy. The designers though are certainly 
 onto something with this game and maybe the third installment might actually be a game changer. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lalocupra68
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 10, 2008 7:48 pm PT
Review:  bueno este juego aparte de tener unas graficas muy buenas emplea un gran terreno por descubrir 
 lleno de retos y de frecuentes balaceras. 
  
  En mi opinion este juego esta muy bien realizado para los que les gustan los FPS (first person 
 Shoters) ya que es un juego en el que te dejan literalmente en 50 Km de puro terreno libre de explorar 
 osea que puedes hacer lo que quieras puedes matar a quien quieras tienes distintos transportes 
 entre otras cosas. eso lo puede hacer divertido o bien muy aburrido pues si estas esperando a que 
 te digan a donde ir pues no este no es tu juego ya que en este juego tienes que apaartelas para 
 encontrar a tus objetivos ya sea uniendote con otros mercenarios o utilizando el mismo terreno 
 para tu beneficio.
  
  en conclucion este juego es muy buen FPS 
  a las graficas yo le doy un 9.5
  al gameplay un 9.5
  a la historia le doy un 8.5
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Indigo42
Rating: 6
Date: Dec 10, 2008 2:58 pm PT
Review:  Far Cry 2 may as well be the terribly boring filler game that Gears of War was supposed to be before 
 Halo3 last year. Unfortunately, FC2 doesn't astound or impress anyone with half a sense. The Story 
 Mode may as well have just given you a gun, dropped you in Africa, and said "Ok, kill everything 
 using anything." It's a rampant, white supremacist, mass-murderer's dream come true; to slaughter 
 Africans and illegit mercs like so much ripe cattle.
  
  Multiplayer is even worse! Slow respawns, weak weapon selection system, and even more arduous maps 
 that make you miss those exhaustingly long drives across the Serengeti in solo. Sure, there's the 
 map-making feature, but what's the point if no one wants to play a game of such terribly quality?
 
  
  All in all, Far Cry 2 is a game to avoid unless you really are THAT bored of your other games, 
 and want to spend 10-30 hours running, driving, swimming, and boating all over Africa, all the 
 while being subjected to terrible dialogue, presented by worse voice-acting, and weapons that seem 
 to jam up no matter how high their "reliability" is. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hexgod1
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 10, 2008 8:36 am PT
Review:  Since the original Far Cry is my favorite game, I was eagerly awaiting this release ( I do that 
 a lot!) I read the glowing reviews in the pc magazines and on this site, so I knew it was going 
 to be great. Then I read about the SecuRom, so I decided not to play it on my pc and rented it 
 for my Xbox instead, although I normally do not like playing FPS's on the Xbox since it is impossible 
 to aim accurately. Well, all I can say is -- what a let down!! There is no storyline and it is a 
 driving game with repetitive missions. That's it -- really. On the good side, the graphics were very 
 good and the scenery made me want to visit Africa (at least the countries where everyone isn't 
 shooting everyone else!)
  
  This game should not have had Far Cry in it's title since it has nothing to do with it and it invites 
 comparison with the original which makes this game look bad. They really should have named it something 
 else -- let's say: Blood Diamond Safari, A Diamond Too Far, Lord of the Arms Dealers, Goodbye Mr. 
 Jackal, The Man from Bloody Africa, or even The Africa 500. Anything to more accurately portray 
 the game. It would have made expectations more realistic. Now that I am warned, when they come 
 out with Far Cry 3, I will be very wary.
  
  I also did not like the use of profane language. Yes, I know I am a lone voice on this, but really 
 it just made me cringe everytime (which is all the time) someone spoke and used the F word. That 
 certainly did not make the game more fun to play (Fortunately, I don't have children around to 
 hear it, but I know there are lots of parents or siblings playing this in front of or with their 
 kids or younger sibs. Yikes!! Of course, killing a bunch of people isn't really for the little 
 kiddies either.)
  
  Overall, a bit of a let down. So here's the good and bad:
  
  PROS:
  Good graphics and scenery
  Not too short (might be a negative in some opinions)
  Decent 
 save system
  
  CONS:
  No storyline
  Repetitive missions
  Instant re-spawning at the guard posts
  Way too much driving through re-spawned guard posts
 
  No interaction with NPCs
  Playing an anonymous character you don't care about
  the F bomb every time someone opened their mouth
  a weird bug that corrupted my save files
 
  
  There you go. I suggest that if you haven't bought this yet-rent it first or play it on a friend's 
 pc first just to make sure it's your cup of tea. 
  
  Happy driving!! 
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: schizophreniak
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 9, 2008 2:27 pm PT
Review:  I had been following this game for some time, and when I finally got the chance to play it, I felt 
 it was a completely different game to the one that had been promoted, as is usually the case. I 
 can only speak for the Single player at the moment, so look elsewhere if you are interested purely 
 in the Multi player.
  
  Positives:
  
  + Great Graphics, especially on PC
  + Great idea, tooling about in an open world with a fairly large armoury can be fun when the factors 
 allow
  + At first the degrading weapons system adds an extra layer to the combat
  + Many, Many ways to complete the missions
  + Upgrade system can be rewarding
  
  
  Negatives
 
  - All-seeing AI (In keeping with the far cry series?)
  - Set missions can become tedious at times
  - Weapons degrade fairly quickly, even with upgrades
 
  - Too Much Driving!
  - Forgettable story
  - Malaria management can become tedious
  - Not enough destructible environments! Hit a shed with a RPG it should not still be standing!
 
  
  There are a few more negatives than positives but overall I felt it was a worthwhile experience. 
 The story does occasionally manage to pull you in and when you aren't driving the combat can be 
 fun. If the AI was tweaked to allow for more stealth, there was more variation in missions, more 
 was made of the physics and there was slightly less driving (quick-travel?) then this could have 
 been amazing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doubalfa
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 7, 2008 8:16 pm PT
Review:  Far Cry 2
  
  Far Cry 2 is a game that will not appeal to everyone because is not a pick and play, there is too 
 much to take into consideration in every mission as well as many approaches, so don't quit on the 
 game before you really know how to play it
  
  Gameplay
  FarCry 2 offers a typical control and movement layout, you have your default fire, aim, grenades, 
 reload, action, crouch and jump button, you have three novelties in the controls, the Left Bumper 
 will be your healing button (I will comment on this later) , back will bring out the map, but you 
 will see the map into the same gameplay as a navigation tool not as a screen, and finally a LT 
 squeeze while you have the map out and you will bring out our monocular for scouting, 
  The gameplay in Far Cry is inteligent, you have this open world that lets you go wherever you want, 
 this gives you tons of variables into the same mission, you can travel by running or in vehices, 
 nd well you will use a lot of them because the gameworld is huge, the controls for vehicles are 
 simple and the driving seems ok, not the strongest point in the game but you will be able to handle 
 them properly, on a side note of roading is not a great idea with heavy vehicles.
  The healing in Far Cry 2 is a mix of various sistems you have your life bar split in 5 sections, 
 if you are injured by a bullet but it only took a part of the first section, you will automaticaly 
 heal that section, however if you get more damage, only the last section of the bar of your health 
 will fill, and finally if the damage gets into the last section it will flash in red, and you will 
 be diying, unless you autoheal yourself , what happens here? well your character takes out a bullet 
 or a branch sticked to his boddy or patches up (too many healing animations and most are coherent 
 to the damage taken) if you use the auto heal, you will only recover the first two sections of 
 our lifebar (in multiplayer you will heal completely) 
  Far Cry 2 has an element of RPG into it, as you make missions or rank up in multiplayer you will 
 get a chance to get better equipment, so the more you play and the more you do the stronger you 
 will be ad the more options in your arsenal you can get. 
  Also you handle the weapons with no sights or crosshairs, there is nothing on the HUD except the 
 game, (however you can turn on the crosshair) so iron sights are your best friends, they are really 
 precise, and you get to know how to use them.
  Multiplayer and Single player have differences so I will explain them in their own space.
  The 
 good
  +simple and functional controls
  +Iron sights and a clean HUD helps realism
  +autoheal animations are great to see
  The bad
  -you cant crawl
  -off roading is really hard
 
  
  Presentation
  Far Cry 2 is a stunner (one of the best if you play it on pc) every jungle and landscape is wonderful, 
 the game features some real achievements in technology, fire propagation is a really helpful game 
 feature, fire behaves like in real life you cannot control it, but if you know where the wind is 
 blowing you can do that maneuver you are thinking of, wind also is a great addition as it defines 
 fire propagation, and storm weather, the game has also full day and night mechanics (a really great 
 manner to think the best way to tackle an enemy base) the sound in the game is great, the envromental 
 sound is really natural and realistic, you are accompanied by a really "into the jugle" soundtrack 
 (is not bad but I chosed to turn it of for a more realistic feel) , and well the wepons really have 
 great and kind of realistic sounds, the mortar and the rocket launcher are great, explosions sound 
 
  great and are really flashy, also you have partial destructible enviroments, camps and straw will 
 blow, grass will be burned (and it will take a while to heal) you can cut plants, everytime you 
 get into a vehicle, you have this animation of how your character enters the vehicle he doesnt 
 just teletransport to the seat, and well you cant shoot if you are getting climbing a ladder, and 
 you see your arms when you are swimming, the voice acting in the game is acceptable but it coud 
 be better
  The good
  +graphics and landscapes
  +the sounds of the jungle, and the bushes as you pass
  The bad
  -not really bad, but voice 
 acting dont help the immersion of the game
  
  SIngle Player
  The campaign puts you in a unnamed warthorn country in central africa, with two sides on the fight, 
 the APR and the UFLL, you enter the country with a mission to kill an arms dealer known as the 
 jackal, as you enter the country you are infected with malaria, and well you et to notice that 
 the war is worst than you tought and that the jackal is a hard to kill man, I wont spoil the story 
 but I can only tell you that the first half is not too interesting, but believe me the closing 
 moments of the story are like oh my god you efing son of a you know.
  In Far Cry 2 you dont play as a given character instead they gie you the option to choose from 
 9 different mercenaries each with a different background, the ones you dont choose will be in the 
 game as your friends (more on this later)
  As you progress the story and make mission for another arms dealer you will get access to better 
 and deadlier equipment, with assault rifles, sub machine guns, handguns, shotguns, mortar rocket 
 launchers, granade launchers, flamethrowers, homemade bombs, and of course sniper rifles, weapons 
 degrade ovetime becoming rusty and jamming every now and then, to avoid this (or at least make 
 it last longer) you can buy weapons manuals, and bandoliers, to get the most of them, every weapon 
 you buy, gives you infinite stash of it so it works, oh by the way the currency to buy this and 
 other things are diamonds, that are given to you by completing story missions, assassination missions 
 or finding diamond cases hidden through the world.
  Another element for healing in the game is that you can carry syrettes, wich will heal you to full 
 health, at the beginning you can only carry 4 but you can get more if you buy upgrades, also there 
 is the malaria thing, from time to time illness will attack you and ou will have to take your medicine 
 (wich you get by doing some kind of missions)
  The game has this huge map that you can explore as you please, every story mission takes place 
 in some kind of base or camp (you even have to fight in a really small school, and an airfield) 
 and well the main attractive of Far Cry is do it however you want, you only have to do your objective, 
 the means are your to decide, the fun in Far Cry 2 is to explore the options, if you do every single 
 mission with the same gear you wont like the game too much, and is crucial to make a battleplan, 
 that if works fine will make you feel powerful and smart, you also have buddies some will give 
 you different objective to a same mission, others will help you if you die (yeah they carry you 
 out of the battle and heal you) however if a buddy dies he remains taht way the rest of the game, 
 if they are wounded you can help them or ease their suffering by executing them, the roads in Far 
 Cry 2 are filled with enemy outposts (57 of them in all the map) so if you try to cruise them is 
 better to destroy tehm, because enemys will maul your vehicles, a bad thing on this is taht enemys 
 spawn into their outpost like every ten minutes and well you cant fast travel anywhere (except 
 the center and the corners of the maps, via bus) so be ready for some long drives (like ten minutes 
 or so)
  The good
  +freedom to do your missions
  +a really big map to explore with plenty of missions and things to do.
  +really interesting game 
 mechanics (weapon upgrades, buddies )
  +a good story and many characters to choose from
  The bad
  - Outpost get annoying
  -Some people are too lazy to think how to attack a camp
 
  - long drives
  
  Multiplayer
  Far Cry 2 features a 16 player mutiplayer wich is interesting, in the beginning you will get very 
 angry from time to time because you wont have the best weapons so you will die too much, but as 
 soon as you get experience and ranks you will earn more weapons and the more weapons the more kills 
 and well the more fun, so dont worry be persistenet and you will have that grenade launcher you 
 want, you get to choose 5 classes each with aunique set of upgradable weapons, a thing i dont like 
 that much is that the enemy can take too much damage in the torso (a headshot is fatal however) 
 some mechanics like healing and fire propagation are also featured in the MP, ou have 4 game modes, 
 deathmatch, team deathmatch, capture the diamonds, and sublevation (a player of each team is named 
 aptain and he has to take 3 control points, once you have the points under your control you only 
 have to kill the other team captain to win) , but well the really great thing in Far Cry 2 is the 
 map editor, you can create everything you can think of, from ground to enviroment, buildings, furniture, 
 weather daytime, anything you have more than 1,000 objects to use, and well of course you can publish 
 your map, and play it in player matches
  The good
  +Map editor
  +battles are intense and this game is perfect for snipers
  + crazy game modes with the editor
 
  The bad
  -experienced players will sweep the floor with you 
  - you need to have quick reflexes and a great aim if you want to survive
  
  Closing comments
 
  
  Far Cry 2 is a great game it could have been better, but dont get it wrong it is a really complete 
 experience, that the people who like to watch details will love, you just have to sit in the beginning 
 with patience and suddenly its magic will make you love it, it has na outstanding presentation, 
 a good story really interesting game mechanics, smetiems is too realistic I see it as a good thing
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: lh1801
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 6, 2008 10:03 pm PT
Review:  I very much enjoyed Farcry 2 the Freedom, graphics, even the little extras etc. But the size of 
 it is absolutely insane 50km. I have never said this before, but for the type of first person shooter, 
 the map is simply too big or its too far to travel at least. The country side / forests seem to 
 go on forever, which can be very fustrating. Then again I found it a legendary game in its own 
 right, dissappointing with no 2 player co-op but hey it cant have everything. I would definitely 
 recommend this game for someone else but u need to be wherry of the huge map. Plus it can be bit 
 tricky at times, very capable game in its own right, in some ways it could have been better and 
 possibly revolutionary if enough work had been put in.
  
  jdsfbkjs bfkjsdbfkjsbfsd kjbfs dkjbf sdkj ddffff fffff ffff ff fffffffff fffff ffffff ffssss sssaajjjjjjjj 
 jjjjjjjjjj jjjjjjjjjjj jjjjjjj jjjjjjjj jjjjj jjjjjjjjj jjjjjjj jjjjjjjjjjj jjjjj jjjjjjjjjj jjjjjjjjjjj 
 jjjjjjj jjjjjjj jjjjjjjjj jjjjjjj jjjjjjj jjjjjjjjjjj jjjjjjj jjjjjjjjjjjj jjjjjj 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yeley718
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 6, 2008 4:55 pm PT
Review:  Far Cry 2 has the great action, graphics, and great multiplayer. mixed with a totally disappointing 
 story... that you wont care about since the game has such a great single-player.
  
  You start out the game driving to a hotel, i know that that doesn't sound very interesting, but 
 when you put in the game and spend the 5 minutes your in the cab looking at all the great scenery 
 while you drive to the hotel. You will get their breathless. The lush jungles and great looking 
 prairies make it a simply incredible looking game.
  
  Unfortunately, the story is weak, but you wont totally care since the 30 hour single-player is 
 so enjoyable. And the firefights are so intense. The game also gives you a lot of wonderful weapons 
 to unlock and upgrade in range, reliability, and ammo capacity.
  
  You will notice a lot of things that are very different from other shooters. Your guns get dirty 
 and jam, and you must heal yourself by popping a bone back in place or ripping a bullet from flesh. 
 lovely.
  
  The multiplayer has all the standard game modes that you'd expect. Death-match, team death-match, 
 capture the diamond (capture the flag) , and other game modes. And yet the game is different. The 
 healing animations and respawn waits make it a lot more tactical then COD4. This combined with 
 the map editor and wide weapon selection make it great.
  
  Out of all 3, the PC and 360 look the best, the PS3 looks good but has way to much pop in. Out 
 of all 3 i would get the 360 version (because of great MP) but it's your choice. No matter what 
 you should defiantly pick this one up.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: xxxpharaoh
Rating: 5
Date: Dec 5, 2008 3:54 pm PT
Review:  Don't waste your money on this game go rent it and try it first. See if your one of the few people 
 that likes wondering around the jungle plains every now and then. 
  The missions are alright, they can be very challenging and some are just very simple. The game 
 truly is GTA in the jungle but don't expect much. The random pop ups of enemies when your on your 
 way to a mission gets as annoying as them ramming your vehicle every time, Which causes you to 
 have to fix it. The aim assist is a must sometimes unless you have some really good vision because 
 trying to find someone in jungle brush is challenging when there shooting at you. 
  The malaria isn't really that annoying it only happens every couple hours of ingame. I'll tell 
 you whats annoying, a brand new sniper rifle that jams on the 3rd shot.... The fact weapons can 
 jam is awesome but the frequency is total BS, especially if u pick up a gun from an enemy- don't 
 expect to have it for long.
  Buying weapons and upgrades is pretty easy but getting the diamonds to do it takes a while so SAVE 
 those diamonds unless you like wondering around the game with your map out looking for buried treasure 
 [not really buried but oddly placed]
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShadowbladeX
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 4, 2008 9:59 pm PT
Review:  Far Cry 2 takes us back to the very original idea of Far Cry, putting aside the Instincts storyline. 
 You play one of many choosable mercenaries who have been sent to an unknown warring african nation, 
 you have to track down the Jackel, a weapons dealer who is essentially fuelling the war in the 
 nation. However almost as soon as you enter the nation you contract malaria, and soon find yourself 
 without weapons or means to stop the Jackel. What follows is a thrilling experience to work your 
 way through the war and track down the Jackel. Firstly, you will instantly notice the graphics 
 in Far Cry 2 are amazing, the way the african landscape is represented is just breathtaking. The 
 gameplay in Far Cry 2 is the highest point as it is executed beautifully. You have to learn your 
 environment and use it to your advantage if you ever truly want to survive. You honestly never 
 know what is going to happen. For example, I was driving on my way to complete a mission when i 
 drove past a guard station. They wasted no time in shooting me as i went past, and they were quick 
 to climb into their own vehicle and give chase. While trying to escape the first, a second car 
 approached and joined the chase, and soon my engine was smoking. Temporarily escaping the two vehicles, 
 i pulled into the forest and began to repair the engine. No sooner had i begun, than the two cars 
 pulled up and the soldiers climbed out to attack. In the ensuing firefight i managed to blow up 
 one of the cars and steal the second to use as a getaway. However just when i had escaped i crashed 
 the car in a river, and with no way to retrieve it, I had no choice but to walk towards the next 
 mission through the forest. This level of immersion leads to some truly incredible and unique experiences 
 as you battle through the game. Weapons will look realisticly weared down, and will occassionally 
 jam only strengthening the need to try and keep your brand new weapons. Certain missions seem a 
 bit difficult to hanlde sometimes, but the game is amazingly well made and everyone will greatly 
 enjoy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TOMBOM889
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 3, 2008 8:17 pm PT
Review:  When I added this game to my collection I was a little skeptical, but when I started playing I 
 got into and I wanted to play it more. But like all "decent" games it must have flaws. The first 
 gameplay mechanic that tripped me up was the absolute repetiveness of the action, you'd think that 
 the more that you progressed that the enemies would get rougher around the edges and harder to 
 kill or something. The second flaw is the fact that you are always traveling from point A to B 
 and it always involves walking or vehicles. Now I do love free-roaming games, but do they have 
 to make traveling so dam* hard? I know that vehicles are pretty fast, but with the NPCs constantly 
 chasing you, you could lose that vehicle in a fire-fight. Back to the NPCs constantly chasing you, 
 I mean they chase you even if your not even acting as a threat. You'll just be walking down some 
 dirt road and all of a sudden an assault jeep will appear to make your life as miserable as possible. 
 Now with the decay and wear down of guns, that is pretty sweet but can test your patience if your 
 in the middle of a mission with no safehouses nearby and loads of baddies chasing you. Ammo is 
 pretty scarce unless your at a guard post, etc. Now enough with the bad, lets talk about the great 
 things in which Far Cry 2 is very strong. Graphics: This game is very pretty overall with few slowdown 
 and good framerate. Combat: Very smooth and great sounding weapons always make you want to kill 
 more guards. Story: Not really there at all, I never really had the sense that I was doing anything 
 other than helping a bunch of people with some random stuff and unlocking new guns. But it is there 
 you just have to look deep. AI: Overall very good, they react to your cover, they flee from fire 
 which by the way can be used tactically to mow down any soldiers in a field of grass by simply 
 tossing a molotov. The buddies in this game are very useful and might ultimately decide your fate 
 in some cases. The might sometimes come to your aid in some battles, the might also get seriously 
 wounded by the enemy and you get to decide their fate. They can also offer sidemissions and new 
 stuff that you wouldn't normally get. Vehicles handle pretty good, but my biggest peeve with the 
 vehicles is the fact that you can't use a GTA style third-person view its always that 1st person 
 view. Overall this game is terrific and I am continuing to play it. So if anyone likes a good FPS 
 with a few twists mixed in it, Far Cry 2 is the game for you. Hope you Enjoyed. This was a review 
 by TOMBOM889. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dwhittle001
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 3, 2008 7:47 am PT
Review:  Far Cry 2 is a highly interactive and environmentally stunning first person shooter. It's very 
 easy to get immersed for hours in the "kill or be killed" state of total anarchy that comes alive 
 in this unnamed African country. You really feel like the world is on fire and everyone in it, 
 save for a few buddies, want you DEAD! But this game is not without it's flaws. The layout for 
 carrying weapons leaves much to be desired, you can get what you want to get the job done, but 
 you can only carry certain weapons at a time which can be a little annoying at times especially 
 when you get caught up in close quarters with a sniper rifle and that pistol your carrying just 
 doesn't have enough kick. Another annoying factor is that most of the time you can't go 50 feet 
 without running into a group of guys who seem to have a serious problem with your very existence 
 which can be quite tedious when all you want to do is make to your objective and you have to keep 
 looking for ammo and replacing worn out weapons along the way, enemies also have a tedency to get 
 back up and keep fighting even after being shot in the chest. The shear amount of ground you have 
 to cover and the possibilty of losing your ride in a random duel leaving you on foot miles from 
 your objective can dwindle your patients a bit also. But even with these flaws, there's something 
 incredibly satisfying about shooting a guy out of a moving vehicle with a bolt action rifle at 
 a couple thousand yards, or waiting to ambush a convoy with an IED, or lighting a fire with a simple 
 flare gun that torches an entire outpost of bad guys. There are an incredible number of different 
 ways that you can carry out your missions whether it be a run 'n gun and blow everything to hell 
 style, a stealthy stalking and quietly taking the bad guys out one at a time approach, or sitting 
 safely on a hilltop and patiently picking off panicing militia with a sniper rifle as they dash 
 for cover. You can create distractions by shooting ammo crates and combustible objects or even 
 wound someone to get their buddies to abandon their cover to vainly try and carry their comrade 
 off to safety. You worried that you may not make it through the next mission? Find a safehouse 
 and get a buddy to back you up. If you become cut down by overwhelming firepower, he or she will 
 come to your rescue in a dramitic "blackhawk down" kind of fashion, bring you up to your feet and 
 dive right into the action with you. Be careful though, if your buddy gets killed, then they are 
 gone forever and trust me, you feel the loss. But where one buddy bites the dust, another is ready 
 to fill the void, but eventually you can run out of buddies and life can become just a little bit 
 harder. All in all, Far Cry 2 is a must have for gamers who favor being immersed in a world that 
 is incredibly massive and gives them the freedom to blow s#$% up in a variety of different ways. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: devinegod135
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 3, 2008 3:06 am PT
Review:  After spending somewhere around 25 hours getting through Far Cry 2's single-player campaign, there 
 was one question I couldn't quite answer: why is this game called Far Cry? The sequel, developed 
 by Ubisoft Montreal, retains nearly nothing from Crytek's 2004 original or from the Xbox and Xbox 
 360's Instincts and Predator derivations. The story doesn't carry over, the characters aren't the 
 same, there's no mention at all of Jack Carver, there are no mutagens, no feral powers, and no 
 Trigens. Instead, it's a struggle between warring factions, called the APR and UFLL, in an unnamed 
 African nation.
  
  The game also doesn't give players a pre-determined protagonist. Instead, you select a character 
 to play as, and the rest of the cast appear in the game world around you as friendly NPCs, called 
 buddies, who you can choose to work with. Things begin with a simple tutorial section, introducing 
 you to basic first-person shooter controls and the game's premise. Your main goal is to find The 
 Jackal, a menacing character that supplies weapons to the APR and UFLL to keep lit the fires of 
 conflict.
  
  The point is, with this kind of setup, it's odd that the Far Cry name was even used at all, other 
 than for its obvious name recognition value. Pushing that issue aside and accepting that this is 
 basically a totally different game, you'll find there's quite a bit to like.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Flame-Sama
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 1, 2008 7:47 pm PT
Review:  Far Cry 2 is a rather hard to describe game. I will tell you what I think. Either you will like 
 this game or hate it. Or both. Let me explain.
  
  You are a sort of mercenary in an untitled African country. The scenery is very pretty to drink 
 in. Fire in this game is pretty, and it spreads realistically. The game looks fantastic, which 
 is a positive, obviously.
  
  Of course, you are playing around in an entire country. So you will be walking, driving, or taking 
 the bus a lot. The free bus in this game, which can take you from the center of the map to any 
 of it's four corners is more useful than any weapon you will EVER use. A big negative is that you 
 can spend a half hour on a single mission this way. Traveling, doing the mission, and then taking 
 another long while to return to for another mission. This is without subverting your missions, 
 which is pretty much, you and a buddy you met in the campaign team up. "Hey, instead of going to 
 point A, go to point B, do this, then come with me to point C and save me when I get shot down 
 in battle." Then a half hour mission can take forever.
  
  All the missions in this game and the many ways to complete them make this game pretty good and 
 lengthy. Maybe too lengthy. While the missions are linear, you can approach them anyway you like. 
 Guns blazingoryou die. Stealth is near-impossible in this game. You can have the Camo Suit, a 
 silenced sniper, and a silenced MP5 and crouch walk one inch an hour into a guard post, and the 
 clairvoyant AI will spot and subsequently light you up. And they happen to have 50/50 aim. Either 
 they can't hit you from close range or you can get mortared from a million miles away. This is 
 on Normal mind you, I can't imagine anything harder.
  
  Driving in this game is solid, as it damn well should be, considering how often you spend game 
 time driving. And the actual gunplay is interesting, providing you can convince yourself to vary 
 your weapons. I stuck with the same weapons set (Dragnov, Dart Rifle, Uzi) for two-thirds of the 
 game. But you can buy IEDs, SMGs, Assault Rifles, and anything in between.
  
  Repair guides, weapon upgrades, and the aforementioned, practically useless camo suit are purchased 
 with diamonds, which you earn by taking missions or by driving around and finding secret briefcases 
 with them in it. (Yes, one or two diamond (s) in a single briefcase, IDK either.)
  
  Also, sometimes you can be attacking a guard post with four or five guards and take it out without 
 getting shot. Or you can just drive by an enemy camp, get followed by the godly mortars and two 
 pickup trucks until you are forced to jump out and attack them, where you are fuster-clucked by 
 a dozen attackers and killed.
  
  It manages to have flaws and still be pretty fun. And the random animals you encounter can make 
 for a fun hunting "mini-game". Too bad they can't hit you back I will tell you this is a definite 
 'try before you buy' game. As I said, you'll either love it, hate it, or you two will have love-hate 
 relationship, as was the case with me. I played this game until it's halfway point and then took 
 a week or so break from it. I got back into playing it and completed it, just today I completed 
 it as a matter of fact (12/01/08) . This is the best way to play this game.
  
  Despite a wishy-washy AI and some long driving bits, this game should keep you interested. And 
 at an average play though clocking in at about twenty-thirty hours, you should be busy for a while. 
 Oh, and there is an epic map editor, where you can build maps from scratch for multiplayer. I would 
 say more about this, but how I played my Far Cry maps is in split-screen multiplayer, a glaring 
 absence from this game. So I haven't really used it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bob78bob
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 1, 2008 7:14 pm PT
Review:  Very very good ldea i like the map maker and mutiplayer. i also liked the fact that you could start 
 trees and grass on fire and they would burn and burn for a good while it was some what help full 
 in mutiplayer. the story was ok. the story did not make me want to finish it i got bored. i did 
 finish it just to see what happened. it took me a good while before i finished but playing with 
 the map creater cheered me up. then playing mutiplayer on my map was even cooler. after two days 
 i took it back to the rental place i think it was worth what i payed for it. i still think that 
 the idea of the game was good they just didnt deliver it  
  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alanjuenke
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 1, 2008 10:27 am PT
Review:  Everything is amazing, the scnery, the amount of objects u can put in on map editer, campain is 
 alittle tricky, but i think i will get through. The only thing that ubsoft miss out was spilt-screen 
 mode for multiplayer and pubilsh maps. The first one was awsome, why did they make this one as 
 10 times awsome as the first. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . .. . . . 
 . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . .. .. . . . . . . . .. . . .. . .. . . . . . . . 
 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . 
 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . .. . . . . .. . . .. . . . .. . . . .. . . . . .. . . . . 
 . .. . . . . . . . . . . .. . . .. . . . . .. . . .. . . .. . . . .. . . . . .. . . . .. . .. . 
 . . . . . .. . . .. . . .. . . . .. . . . . .. . .. . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . .. . . . .. . 
 . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . .. . . .. . . . . . .. . . . . . 
 . . . .. . . . . . . .. . .. . . . .. . . . .. . .. . . . .. . . . . .. . . . . . .. . . . . . 
 . . .. . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . .. . . .. . . .. . . .. . . .. . . . . . .. . . . . . . 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: prince
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 30, 2008 9:55 pm PT
Review:  I haveb been looking forward to this game for a long time! Even at e3 2008, I was following this 
 game more closely than gears of war 2 or any other huge hits of the year. When I picked up the 
 game though, it became obvious within the first 10 minutes that this was going to be incredibly 
 generic. Sure, the fire propogation is BEAUTIFUL and incredibly well-exectuted but thats about 
 all that sets this game apart. I was so blown away by the original. This is not to say the game 
 isnt good, however. Theres a lot of bang for your buck with this package. I am incredibly picky 
 with my videogames now - especially since triple A games like gears of war and the new prince of 
 persia have been grabbing my attention. Sadly, far cry 2 was not a completely unmitigated failure, 
 but I think the whole Havana and Africa novelty wears off very quickly. Sure, its pretty to look 
 at, but gameplay is the heart of a videogame and it just isnt varied enough in this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spanker01
Rating: 3
Date: Nov 30, 2008 5:29 am PT
Review:  Most of it is driving around and the driving is Rubbish. It's nothing like the original far cry 
 and should not be aloud to use the name . Pleas don't let these game designers ruin anymore good 
 titles.
  
  Game play was boring and manotinouse. It's just so bbbbbbbb bb bb b bbb bbbb bbb bbb bbb bbb bbb 
 bbb bbbb bbbbb bbbb bbbb bbbbb bbb bbbb bbb bbbbb bbaa aaaaa aaaa aaaa aaaa aaa aaaa aaaa aaa aaa 
 aaaa aaa aaaa aaaa aaaaa aaa aa aaaa aaa aaaa a aa aaaaa aaaa a a a aaa a aaaaaa aaaa aaaaaa aaaaaaa 
 aaaaa aaaaaaaa aaaaaa aaaaaa aaaaaa aaaaa aaaaaaa aaaaaa aaaaa aaaaa aaaaa aaaaaa aaaaa aaaaa aaaaaa 
 aaaaaaa aaaaaa aaaaaa aaaa aaaa aaaa aaaa aaaa aa aaaaaaaa aa aa aaaaaaa aaaaaa aaaaa aaaaa aaa 
 aaaa aaaa aaaaa aaaa aaaaa aaaaa aaaaa aaaaaa aaaaaaaaa aaaaaa aaaa aaaa aaaaaa aaaaa aaaaa aaaa 
 aaa aaaaaa aaaaaa aaaa aaaa aaaaaa aa aaaaaa aa aaaaa aaaaa aaa aaaa aaaa aaaa aaaaaa a aaaa aaaa 
 aaa aaaaa aaaa aaaaa aaaa aaa aaa aaaaa aaaa aaaaa aaaa aaaaaa aaa aaaa aaaa aaaa aaa aaaa aaaaa 
 aaaa aaaaaaaa aaaaa aaaaa aa a aaa aaaa aaaa aaa aaaaa aa aaaa aaaaaa aaaaaaa aaaaa aaaaaa aaaaa 
 aaaaa aaaa aaaaa aaa aaaa aaaa aaaaa aaaaa aaaa aaaa aaaa aaaaa aaaa aaa aaaaaa aaaa aaaa aaaa 
 aaaa aaaa aaa aaaa aa aa aaa aa a aaa aaaaa aaaa aaaaa aaaa aaaa aaa aaaaa aaaa aaa aaa aaa aaa 
 aaaaa aa aaa aaaa aa aa aaa aaa aaaa aaa aaaa aaaa aaaa aaaa aaaa aaa aa aaaa aa aaaaa aaaa aaaa 
 aaa aa aaaaa aaa aaaaaaa aaaa aaaa aaa aaa aa aaa aa aaa aa aaa aaa aaaa aaa aa aaa aaaa aaa aaa 
 aaaa aaaa a aaa aaaa aa aaa aaa a aa aa a aa aaa aaaa aaa aaaa aaa aaa aaa aaaa aaa aaaa aaa aaa 
 aaaa aaaa aaaa aaaa aaa aaaa aaa aaaa aaad ddd dddd ddd ddd dddd ddd dddd ddd ddd ddd dddd dddd 
 ddd dddd ddd ddd ddd ddd ddd ddd ddd dddd dddd dddd ddddd ddd ddd dddd ddd ddd dddd ddd ddd dd 
 ddd 
::::::

::::::
UserName: orb_03_2006
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 29, 2008 4:16 pm PT
Review:  I honestly had high expectations for this games. it looked great and looked to be a great game. 
 but I was wrong. let me start off by saying this: if you hate walking and driving around, this 
 game is NOT for you. now, the graphics for this game are AMAZING!!!!! it's perfect down to every 
 last detail. nothing seemed grainy for horrid. a very smooth texture to everything. and the game 
 play was a little weird. for me, the controller was VERY sensitive. so it was pretty hard to get 
 the perfect aim on a certain target. which frustrated me a lot. and the other thing was the bullets. 
 I could have a shotgun and shoot someone point blank and it would take at least 5 shots to kill 
 them. so it got very difficult. but don't let that bring you down at all. there's a lot of weapons 
 to choose from. you even get a machete! and the realism to the machete was pretty great. I was 
 in mission where I had to sneak into a camp. there was a loud sound to pulling the machete out 
 of the sheathe. then they heard the sound and came wondering in my direction. it really amazed 
 me. the thing that angered me was the story line. I didn't even play through a lot of it. it was 
 very repetitive. drive here, kill these people, and repeat. this is what will REALLY get under 
 your skin. the driving and walking! you have to drive for like 5-10 minutes for only about 2-3 
 minutes of shooting someone. it was what really turned me off from the game. I never had a chance 
 to get into the map editor a lot. but I DID use it a little bit. honestly, I was impressed by it. 
 you start out with a COMPLETELY blank land mass and start from there. meaning you can choose what 
 kind of environment you want, which objects you want in it, grass types, and even different bodies 
 of water to choose from. so what I'm saying here is that this game had many great ideas, but they 
 didn't do a very good job in putting it together. but I think it's at least worth trying out. I'd 
 say rent it or buy it used after a price drop. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheBurgerKing2
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 28, 2008 9:50 pm PT
Review:  Pros:
  1) Huge African landscape to explore and the world is completely free for you to do whatever you 
 want in.
  
  2) Good looking graphics that make you stop and check out the scenery for a little bit. Full 24 
 hour clock so you get to see day turn into night right in front of your eyes and it all looks great.
 
  
  3) Awesome sound quality and you can hear all the birds chirping, your enemies yelling in battle, 
 and a whole bunch of other great stuff.
  
  4) Multiplayer is great.
  
  5) Campaign mode will take you somewhere between 25-35 hours.
  
  6) The story will keep you 
 going and there are a lot of side missions to do even after you beat the game.
  
  7) You choose how you want to approach your mission whether you want to go in guns blazing or be 
 sneaky and pick your enemies off one by one.
  
  8) A good variety of weapons.
  
  9) There is a map editor where you can create your own level and it works really well.
  
  10) 
 You can upgrade your weapons. 
  
  Cons:
  1) Multiplayer is a bit laggy 
  
  2) Some missions take a long time to do because of the large landscape. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shoinko
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 27, 2008 10:50 am PT
Review:  One obvious factor in the evolution of gaming is the advancement of open ended free roaming environments. 
 As hardware becomes more powerful these types of environments can feature larger, higher detailed, 
 more diverse, better looking game worlds which can lead to a more immersive experience. Far Cry 
 2 falls into this category and is the most fully featured sandbox FPS i have experienced on a console.
 
  
  The game starts of with a tutorial which teaches the basics and then leaves you in the centre of 
 the gameworld to play through as you choose in a completely non-linear fashion. The gameworld itself 
 is extremely well rendered. Far Cry 2 takes place in a small African country. There are three main 
 types of environment. The central area is mainly forest which features green foliage and grass 
 and dark brown muddy roads. This changes to more open drier grassy Savannah's in the surrounding 
 area with yellowish grass and more sparsely placed barren trees and lighter more reddish muddy 
 roads. The outer reaches are barren sandy desert, with rippled light coloured sand, cactus and 
 dead trees. There are large rock formations throughout the gameworld that the player has to work 
 around. There is also a river system which branches off into separate regions of the gameworld. 
 There are a couple of towns which are under ceasefire from where the main story missions are accessed. 
 Others are available from shacks placed throughout the gameworld. There are also safehouses scattered 
 throughout which act as savepoints. As well as the towns and shacks there are larger facilities 
 such as an industrial greenhouse, slaughterhouse, airstrip, railyard and so on where the missions 
 take place. This all looks very impressive with the trees, bushes and grass shimmering in the breeze 
 and adds to a high level of immersiveness. The game also features a night and day cycle that ticks 
 over much slower than in most games. This works in the games favour as you feel more of a change 
 as it occurs less frequently and feel as if you are actually playing through a day or night rather 
 than something that is about to change in 10 mins. This is a simple but notable improvement and 
 something other games can learn from. Players can get around the world on cars, jeeps and boats. 
 Some of the boats and Jeeps have mounted guns which come in very handy. The handglider from the 
 first game is included but feels like a forced inclusion as it doesn't serve much purpose apart 
 from being required to reach a few non essential areas. A criticism of the environment is the inclusion 
 of invisible walls that prevent you from scaling the rocky outcrops. This detracts from the feeling 
 of complete freedom of movement and access. The ability to freely ascend these would basically 
 give the player complete freedom and access of the entire world. It would also have provided higher 
 areas where the handglider could be used to better effect which is a bit of a missed opportunity. 
 Overall though the environment is very immersive and enjoyable to traverse.
  
  You play as a mercenary who has been sent to assassinate an arms dealer providing weapons to two 
 warring factions within the country. Needless to say everything isn't quite as it seems and you 
 end up working for both factions and learn more about your target as the game unfolds. The game 
 features the usual structure where you can play through the main story but also have the option 
 to undertake side missions offered by different characters throughout the game. You are also given 
 the additional option of 'subverting' each of the main story missions which involves completing 
 an additional task before then carrying out the original one. Successful completion of the subverted 
 missions will leave permanent upgrades at each of the safehouses such as new ammo crates, health 
 packs and more powerful vehicle weaponary. There is a currency is the game in the form of diamonds 
 which are used to purchase new weapons and weapon/vehicle/health kit upgrades. These are earned 
 from the main missions and side missions that involve assassinating targets. Other side missions 
 unlock additional weapons that can be purchased from weapon shops or simply improve your relationship 
 with NPCs as you carry out favours for them. There are also a number of diamonds scattered throughout 
 the gameworld that can be tracked down by using a type of radar like device. This involves manually 
 covering the environment while keeping an eye on the device. This isn't essential but provides 
 extra currency and is Far Cry 2's equivalent of finding 'hidden packages'.
  
  The control in Far Cry 2 is tight and responsive. The targeting is accurate and skillful gunplay 
 will be suitably rewarded. Each of the missions can be approached however the player desires. Ranged 
 weaponary can be used for long distance attacks or pistols and machine guns for short range. Attacks 
 can be carried out stealthily with silenced weapons. The environment can be set alight which can 
 be used to clear areas of cover and drive enemies into view. The fire effects are impressive as 
 they spread over a small area before burning out. The enemy AI isn't the greatest. Enemies tend 
 to err on the kamikaze as they race toward you on foot or in vehicles making them sitting ducks. 
 It would be better if they made more use of cover. You are also given the option to have a NPC 
 'buddy' on standby who will revive you once after you are killed. Once used you have to return 
 to a safehouse to put them on standby again. These two factors combine to make the game a bit on 
 the easy side. You have the option of choosing not to have a buddy on standby. 
  
  At this point I haven't been able to try the multiplayer so i am rating the single player game. 
 Far Cry 2 is the most complete sandbox FPS i have played. It features a large highly detailed open 
 ended environment and almost complete freedom of movement. The controls are of a high standard 
 but the gunplay is slightly let down by the limited enemy AI. Overall a high quality game and genuine 
 evolution of the series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chex81
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 27, 2008 6:21 am PT
Review:  I never played farcry 1, so comparisons will be excluded. I've been watching the previews of this 
 game for months and when it was time for relase, excitement filled me like a school girl. Right 
 off the bat you're thrown into the world and a brief training, which lasts about an hour or 2, 
 gives you an understanding of how to approach situations and the gameplay mechanics. The world 
 is beautiful and lush, full of life and sounds that truely make the experience immersive. The environment 
 is not only a visual tool, but can be used as a weapon with fire... nothings finer than using a 
 flamethrower to burn a town down, listening to the victims cry out for help. Even the movement 
 of the environment acts as realistic as i've ever seen... throw a grenade, when it explodes you 
 see trees bend realistically, leafs flowing down through the sky... and if you're lucky enough to 
 catch a oil tanker or gas pump in the process... ya, fire starts. The story is interesting and keeps 
 the player involved, but the missions are the same 3 or 4 types. There is a lot of driving or walking, 
 however the player wants to go about completing tasks (think sandbox style) . The guns are awesome, 
 feel good... sniping at its finest this generation in my opinion. There are 221 diamonds to find 
 in the world, which are used to purchase guns and upgrades... and the world is MASSIVE. The game 
 isn't for everyone, but for those when enjoy it... its quite amazing. The multiplayer is bland and 
 uninventive... the map editor is interesting and can kill a lot of hours, with tons of different 
 options. I didn't manage to finish the game because of a glitch (which is known by the developers 
 and scattered throughout the forums) ... i was 91% complete, clocking 31 hours... i had 6 different 
 save slots and all were glitched, as the game wouldn't load. It's unforunate i can't see the ending, 
 i would rather invest my time into another game... I would have given the game a 9.5, but i'm deducting 
 2 points for not being able to see the ending that i worked so hard to achieve. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jason320
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 26, 2008 1:43 pm PT
Review:  When you first start far cry you'll be very impressed by it's very nice graphics which are simular 
 to Assassin's Creed another game by Ubisoft. Also when your in the jeep you'l notice that the guy 
 talking actually has a good VO and sound's real and things like seeing the plane in the distance 
 and the bright sun in the sky and lucious trees really makes this game a likable one.
  
  Unlike Assassins Creed you'll notice that in this game there are actually more destructable environements, 
 but there are always buildings you wont be able to blow up or even damage. That's the problem with 
 FPS's there are always graphical error's, but the game really has nice visuals.
  
  So right off the bat you'll notice you can make friends and take missions from alot of people for 
 specific things like just advancing the story or getting better weapons or more frindship with 
 your friends. If you actually make your friends happy they'll come and save you if you die which 
 will happen alot because the difficulty is high especially in the beginning where you have nothing 
 but a few rusted guns and a knife. The difficulty is also annoying because this game does have 
 rpg elements to it and doesn't saev automaticly so you'l actually have to travel to one of your 
 safe houses or an hq, church etc to save (which I recomend) . 
  
  One cool thing is that weapons actually break after alot of use and you'll have to do some missions 
 for the weapons merchant to get new ones or just purchase new ones with your diamonds or get some 
 from the armory.
  
  Thats's the other thing in this game you need diamonds in this game, you'll find diamond cases 
 throughout the world which is very big and full of things to do, but you have a diamond finder 
 so it makes it easier and you'll get diamonds for doing missions. Finding diamonds in the world 
 is kind if like finding flags in Assassins Creed.
  
  A thing I really didn't like about the game is you find diamonds or do missions and dont save then 
 you die and lose all progress, and you'll start from your last save. And every time a friend saves 
 you he can die and probably will because the ai is harsh and if they die you can save them, but 
 the'll go missing some times. The destructible environements don't feel so destructable after a 
 while and some mission's get very repetetive also. Plus since the world is so big you'll have to 
 travel, ALOT, especially if you have two parts to a mission and even though you have vehicles they 
 break and there are only a few types of vehicles maybe four different types... 
  
  Even though there are these problems which sometimes really get on your nerves, you'll get over 
 them or not, but Far Cry 2 is an enjoyable game as long as you dont play on a high difficulty and 
 run into alot of enemies. It's not perfect and games like Assassin's Creed are better, but in general 
 Far Cry is a much better first person shooter with alot of things to do and is a good buy with 
 alot of value. I would give it an 8.4 but 8.5 is close. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheBreezeHfx
Rating: 4
Date: Nov 26, 2008 6:26 am PT
Review:  I recently rented Far Cry 2 and I'm glad I did... It isn't a game I am looking to buy anymore. 
 It would appear the AI in the game is more unrealistic than functional. 
  
  Here are some examples:
  Driving a civilian car [no mounted weapons] - you can't see a camp and 
 your miles away below Line Of Sight. Yet the music changes and they start coming after you. I guess 
 there is no such thing as citizens traveling in a car on the roads in civilian cars.
  
  Sniping - Daytime. Crouched in very heavy brush, shade, grass and behind a LARGE tree -- Range 
 ~400yrds. Only 2 people standing outside with a 3rd and 4th enemy INSIDE a house. 1 shot kills 
 both outside only the 2 remain in house. I remained crouched moved backwards away from the camp 
 until i got to a huge rock and ducked behind... continued to run then with no Line of Sight on 
 the enemy sprinted across the road back more and hid. Slowly working my way down a little to get 
 slight line of sight. The 2 remaining enemy never moved to where the shot came from -- they move 
 to where I was hiding immediately.
  
  "Silent" killing - machete - while in town i tried to kill a n enemy patrolling. I waited until 
 me and him were both alone behind a building with no Line of Sight to anyone else. Snuck up behind 
 him and stab him.. 1 swipe dead no scream no noise. First problem is you're in combat until you 
 leave the city... DUMB. Secondly people came running from 3 buildings away right to me. How can 
 they possibly see through 6 walls ? Same thing happened at a camp.. I silently kill someone behind 
 a shed at night and enemies came running from across the street and over a hill. No Line of Sight!
 
  
  Fire [Molotov induced] - Doesn't catch on surfaced which it should. Small trees, brush, boxes, 
 shelves.
  
  Ubisoft you're a great company and this was a complete and total disappointment in what you were 
 promising... an intelligent realistic AI for enemy units. It would appear you need to rework you're 
 logic on the AI units a lot. There were problems which all came to light in the first 5 hrs I played 
 the game on Easy to get a taste of it. 
  
  In summary... Enemies 400+yrds away with NO Line of Sight should not be able to hone in on your 
 position after you've changed it by 1000 yrds hidden. Molotov cocktails don't just go boom, they 
 splash, they burn... Considering they even appear to be gas/oil based they would burn longer than 
 alcohol. Enemies should not be able to recognize you as a threat while driving a civilian car miles 
 before you can even see them. Silently killing an enemy should not bring enemies from 6 buildings 
 away immediately to your position.
  
  Fix it with a patch.. it may redeem yourself on this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jiggy_Wilson
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 24, 2008 4:22 pm PT
Review:  I cannot begin to describe how much I love this game. I think it might be a better game than Halo 
 (and Halo's pretty damn good) .
  
  The story mode, for starters is amazing. The graphics are fantastic, the weapons all feel right, 
 The sound is brilliant, and the story itself is interesting. Now, while the single-player is a 
 great strength of this game, it's also where I find the one fault: there are WAY too few things 
 to do. It IS more open ended than the original, but there are basically three missions: kill someone, 
 blow something up, or FETCH QUESTS (AAHH!! Say it ain't so!) . But, if you can get around that (and 
 most people can) the single-player is fun for days on end.
  
  The map editor is super. It's not as great as Crysis', but that's good since that makes it a lot 
 less complex (ergo, easier to use) . The scope of things you can accomplish with the editor is... unimaginable.
 
  
  Multiplayer is fa-freaking-tastic to say the least. It has the bulky (yet fluid) movement scheme 
 from Call of Duty 4, yet the pace and tempo of Halo 3. All the guns feel solid, the classes are 
 nicely balanced (although it would've been nice if there wasn't a class system in the first place, 
 but I'm cool with it) , and the maps are fun and varied (plus you can upload YOUR maps to use... in 
 a player match that is... maybe ranked) . The only other minor (this is VERY minor mind you) is that 
 there is no customization of your character (even though as you upgrade them, their appearance 
 changes) . I really think more games should have this, or allow you to at least pick from a list 
 of characters to use (*couch* Time Splitters *cough*) , but it's fine, you get a random skin colour 
 each time you spawn.
  
  Like I said, this game is great, go get it! I'll cut you with my machete. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: simon_levane
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 28, 2009 10:18 pm PT
Review:  "Far Cry 2" may not be a direct sequel to its predecessors, but it sure does contain all the solid 
 action from them. Like GTA, you'll spend a lot of time using a vehicle to drive from one mission 
 to the other and branching paths occur as you progress. Also, diamonds are this game's version 
 of the "hidden packages" from the PS2 GTA games. They give you currency in which you can upgrade 
 your purchased weapons and other tools of the trade. The shooting itself can get a little repetitive, 
 but the African setting and night/day cycles are phenomenal aspects. Visually, the game is solid 
 and the audio components are excellent. Like a great GTA game, you're hooked once you past the 
 tutorial missions. And just like "Metal Gear Solid 3: Snake Eater", you can go into a mission with 
 stealth if you choose not to shoot yourself out of a situation. And if you get hit, you have to 
 pry out bullets "Naked Snake" style. This is a game that will test your patience at times and may 
 not feel like "Far Cry" at all, but fans of action will like it and the map editor and mulitplayer 
 modes at to the value. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nathace
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 20, 2008 10:19 am PT
Review:  well when i brought this game coupple of days ago i had 2 chose from cod5 or far cry 2 i took a 
 risk and went with far cry 2. i was really disapointed at first with this game, after you complete 
 the start mission there no sense of direction like there is in other games i spent hours and hours 
 searchin the wilderness try to find a "mission" and was constenly getting shot at buy random peoppl 
 in jeeps and kept dying wich really annoyed me in the end i got fed up of roaming around tryin 
 to find a mission, i had to look at the book that the game game with to find my first mission you 
 shouldnt have to look in the book just to find out were to go. wich really damged my overall score 
 rating for this game the no real story line just all side missions, sometimes its really hard to 
 tell if your in the main story line or just on a side quest since there all soo alike. i love the 
 amount of detail put in to this game like you wil see the grass move with the wind, and when you 
 throw a grenade and it explodes by a bush it catchs fire a spreads just like in real life, you 
 hardly see any wildlife like you would see in africa you dnt se any lions or anything i think ive 
 saw about to animals and thats about it soo it gets pretty lonely in a game at time. how ever in 
 combat it gets pretty anoyin when your gun jammes in the middle of a gun battle, and when your gun 
 explodes in your hands and then you have to use the crappy handgun i use the flame throwin pretty 
 effective in close cobat but pathetic from long distances. plus you can only carry 1 primary wepon 
 so on some 'jobs' you have to pick your guna carefully. like if you have to kill a faction leader 
 or somthing a rocket laucher is goin to be pretty useless. you carnt really go 'exploring' because 
 of the shear amount of gaurd patroling the roads you won't go 5 minz without gettin in to a gun 
 battle wich can be really fun SOMETMES but most of the time annoying. and the Ai are just too good 
 there smart and kinda hide behind tree's a rocks if there on there own but if they in numbers the 
 will swarm ya like waspz and you have no choice but to run! you can try 2 kill them all but its 
 allmost impossible to do it i think ive done it once and that was from far away with a sniper rifle 
 but now to the good parts about the game. lots and lots of guns to choose from varity of cars, gliders 
 ,boats to have fun with overall the game could be soo better the shootin mechanics should be as 
 easy as cod4 but they ani't but then agen if they was ppl would be calling them copy cats but it 
 would of made the game soo better. Nath. G. W 
::::::

::::::
UserName: a55a55inx
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 18, 2008 1:13 am PT
Review:  Gameplay - 7.5/10
  
  I had such high hopes for this game, the graphics looked gorgeous, the fire propagation looked 
 awesome and the idea of taking on a mission anyway you want seems fun, but expect to do the same 
 thing over and over again. Yes, Far Cry 2's single-player is repetitive. It wasn't since Assassin's 
 Creed when a game felt a lot like a chore, only doing missions to progress the story and hoping 
 that the game will finally pick up. Fortunately, the game does pick up a bit, but not until about 
 15-20 hours into the game. It will take people around 30 hours to fully complete (if you do all 
 of the side missions) so that is about halfway into it, but by that time, many people could be 
 bored out of their minds. It wouldn't be so bad only if there were a "fast-travel" option in every 
 location. While there is a fast-travel by using a bus station, there are only 5 locations on each 
 of the 2 maps, so there is a lot of driving and walking (and I mean A-LOT!) that occur. Missions 
 are varied from: assassinations, medicine pick-ups, tape-recorder retrievals, weapon-shipment destroying 
 and then there's the main missions, but each of them requires you to drive (or walk) from point 
 A to point B and there are APR or UFLL groups that will attempt to kill you on the way. regardless 
 of the various missions, they all feel pretty much the same (with the exception of some main missions) . 
 It's a real shame that the game structure is like this, there is so much the developers can do 
 to make this game much better, they just chose a more stale approach. It's a good thing that this 
 game contains multiplayer and one of the best map-editors i've ever experienced on a console, otherwise 
 this game wouldn't be worth anyone's time.
  
  Graphics - 9.5/10
  
  Gorgeous! Explosions and vegetation galore! This game is absolutely beautiful, there are so many 
 trees, leaves, and plant-life that looks great. It's really impressive, I just wish that they would 
 make a Jurassic Park based game using this same engine, it would be awesome. There are wild creatures 
 such as antelope, zebras, chickens etc... but there are no threatening animals. It's Africa, it 
 would have been fun to need to run from lions and jaguars. Monkeys would have been nice as well. 
 The simulations are great in this game as well, trees will sway and leaves will scatter during 
 explosions, fire will consume a large area from a single flame, it looks incredible. Playing through 
 the game at noon just makes the game absolutely gorgeous. There is a bit of slow-down during large 
 firefights, and some occasional pop-in in the background though.
  
  Story - 8/10
  
  The story isn't great, especially in the beginning, but it isn't bad either. There are some unexpected 
 twists that actually made me a bit angry, but the story is interesting overall. There is an arms 
 dealer named "the Jackal" who yuo will try and find throughout the story, and there is a feud going 
 on between the APR and UFLL groups, but I don't want to spoil anything for those who want to play 
 through the game.
  
  Sound - 8/10
  
  Guns sound punchy, explosions are great but the voice acting is not not pleasant. The voices themselves 
 aren't that bad, it's just the speed of their sentences is unrealistic. It's as if these people 
 have never heard of a period before. The way everyone speaks is as if they never take a breath, 
 and you can't help but realize the ridiculousness. The speech volume is also terrible. I crank 
 up my speakers to the point where gunfire and explosions would wake the neighbors and I still would 
 have a hard time hearing the voices, it's a good thing that the game has subtitles, otherwise I 
 wouldn't know anything about the story. Ubisoft should have included separate volume adjustments 
 for: Sound Effects, Music and Voice Acting. I mean, they only allow you to adjust the Master Volume 
 alone, what's the point of that when I can adjust the overall volume on my tv and speakers already?
 
  
  Presentation - 9.5/10
  
  The game is presented very well, it's clear that Far Cry 2 focused on interactivity within the 
 player and the in-game avatar. The only time you are taken out of the experience is when you pause 
 or when you have the option to save, this could have been fixed with an autosave feature, but it's 
 fine. Looking at your map, switching from gunner to passenger or entering a car is done seamlessly. 
 Your avatar has contracted malaria and you will have a difficult time seeing and moving without 
 treating it, also healing yourself is great. When your avatar takes too much damage, you have to 
 find cover and heal, he will then pull out bullets, relocate dislocated body parts, remove shards 
 or put a fire out from his clothes.
  
  Animations - 10/10
  
  Every animation from; healing, NPC communication gestures to the avatar's hand movements and environments 
 look spot-on. It's just a very well animated game hands down.
  
  Buy or Rent?
  
  Even though that this game has a good multiplayer mode, an incredibly excellent map-editor mode 
 and a 30 hour campaign, the single-player experience is just not enough to justify a solid purchase. 
 I highly recommend that you rent this game first before buying it, or you will end up trading it 
 in like I did if you have a similar experience.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Legendary-Mode
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 17, 2008 12:03 pm PT
Review:  . The story doesn't carry over, the characters aren't the same, there's no mention at all of Jack 
 Carver, there are no mutagens, no feral powers, and no Trigens. Instead, it's a struggle between 
 warring factions, called the APR and UFLL, in an unnamed African nation.
  
  The game also doesn't give players a pre-determined protagonist. Instead, you select a character 
 to play as, and the rest of the cast appear in the game world around you as friendly NPCs, called 
 buddies, who you can choose to work with. Things begin with a simple tutorial section, introducing 
 you to basic first-person shooter controls and the game's premise. Your main goal is to find The 
 Jackal, a menacing character that supplies weapons to the APR and UFLL to keep lit the fires of 
 conflict.
  
  The point is, with this kind of setup, it's odd that the Far Cry name was even used at all, other 
 than for its obvious name recognition value. Pushing that issue aside and accepting that this is 
 basically a totally different game, you'll find there's quite a bit to like. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: moradel100
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 17, 2008 11:10 am PT
Review:  well, I have been playing farcry since it's pc days. I loved the game. yeah i said LOVEDDDDD. Lets 
 talk about the single player game, It is amazing how you can go around the world with no loading 
 times. The single player graphics are amazing, It could be one of the best graphical game specially 
 if you have a 120 hertz TV with 1080p resolution. Now that game play is a different story. You 
 will find yourself doing the same missions over and over again. Trust me i have been playing games 
 since back in the day. You will get a mission from point A to point B, in between those to points 
 you will find rebels blocking the roads. Now the problem with that is that you will find the same 
 set up everything, for example, If you kill an enemy inside a house the next time around you pass 
 by there the enemy will be in the same spot. It is not challenging knowing where your enemy is 
 at all times, I got to say the graphics is not everything in a game. The game looks very very good 
 but it is bad gameplay the story is boring. This is a rental or just wait until it goes down in 
 price. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gFog34
Rating: 5
Date: Nov 17, 2008 8:16 am PT
Review:  I am one of those who don't care of what genre and what kind of a gameplay a game is. Whether you 
 have to shoot any real world freaks or alien ones or just make your character stronger. Any kind 
 of gameplay and storyline may be involving, fairy or real one, in a third or first person view. 
 The only important condition imho is the game environment should be believable and realistic. 
 
  But what we have in not only this one but many other game also. The whole scene looks like have 
 been captured with a black&white film and then tinted a bit with a brown or green watercolor. Something 
 very similar to old postcards from the beginning of the last century. When I play the game I feel 
 sometimes that I developed a daltonism. Or maybe game companies hire only daltonists nowadays? 
 And while characters look more or less acceptable the game environment are just awful. The textures 
 (although using modern normalmaps) look plastic or like done of a cardboard and far from representing 
 any real material. Grass and foliage looks naive and like a kid drawing. Why they did not take 
 a couple of photos?
  All of that is accompanied with modern shadows and a decent polycount so I think the game is quite 
 technologically advanced. I just wonder why they did not put a bit more attention to the art. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mach_2_Gorilla
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 16, 2008 11:08 pm PT
Review:  This game has a great multiplayer community due to the map maker which allows you to share your 
 custom maps. But it single player has some flaws. Most of the game is spent travelling from one 
 point to another and you cant drive a minute without having to switch into the gunner seat and 
 kill a couple enemies, which in this game is evryone. After you have to get out tighten a bolt and 
 then continue for another minute or so then repeat. After playing the game for a couple hours this 
 gets really anoying. This game should have something like mercenaries where factions will attack 
 you based on your status because in this game evryone will shoot you on sight even when you do 
 work for them. All in all it is a perty good game and the graphics are beatiful and the fire effects 
 are sweet, if you have XBL deffianatley worth the buy 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yonaswii08
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 15, 2008 8:03 pm PT
Review:  First off this is a great game. The story mode is the game's strong point.. as well as the map 
 maker. The game stroy mode alone is like around 60 hours long when goign through the side quest 
 but if you just want to go stright through the gam it should last for 10-20 hours at the most. 
 Map editor allow you to create your own mape for players to play online. This is a great tool to 
 use if you have xbox live you can share and play the mape you created with friends. Now for the 
 Online!!!!!!!!!! There are two modes custom match and ranked match. I think Rank match is great 
 for the hardcore crowd. They have the typical Death match Where it's a free for all in which up 
 to 16 players can play. There is also Team death match where you can play as a team and uprising 
 where you are in teams where this one captain have to capture these section of the area. Last but 
 not least there is capture the diamonds where it's just like capture the flag but the only diffrents 
 is diamonds. Overall online could of been better like Waht the **** was uib soft thinking with 
 the whole thing about a host where he can choose who is on his team and bann any players he feels 
 like in lobby or in the game... It's like you are spending 60 bucks where you have one player as 
 a host to decide your fate... over all it's a good game you should get it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dskingston
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 14, 2008 11:46 am PT
Review:  I am going to keep this short, with Pros and Cons I see so far. Even though I posted more Cons 
 I still gave it an 8 as it is a fun game.
  
  Pros:
   Wicked Weapons (Grenade Launcher, Flamethrower)
   Wicked gun/muzzle effects
   The most 
 amazing scenery
   Its fun to stalk through the brush and stalk people
   Vehicles with turrets
   Lots of places to pick up ammo
   one word, FLAMETHROWER (fun just 
 lighting things on fire!)
   Lots of places to save your game.
   Sandbox setting (you are pretty free to roam where you want)
   Reminds me of playing the original 
 (done by Crytek Studios)
   You can blow things up (ie propane tanks go flying) and the environment interacts nicely (buildings 
 explode, trees collapse)
  
  Cons
   Hard to tell where bullets are hitting you from sometimes.
   Story is pretty dumb
   You 
 have Malaria (your vision will blur in the heat of a gun fight, and you will have to pop a stupid 
 pill)
   Aggravating gun jams/reloads at the most opportune moments
   Hard to tell if you have a new or rusty old version of weapon (rusty old versions jam almost 
 every shot Argggg)
   3 slots for weapons, primary, secondary and special, you may prefer two favorite weapons but 
 they both fit in secondary slot so you can only use one. The pistols suck.
   Healing in the heat of battle sometimes gets you killed
   It takes an annoying amount of time 
 to kill enemies, whatever happened to head shots? This is why the pistol is useless.
   Because of the above point it is a must to carry a sniper rifle, but then you can't carry some 
 of the other cool weapons
   Vehicles are destroyed way to easily, then you have a long hike ahead of you
   It is a pain 
 to track down briefcases with diamonds you need for weapon upgrades, your gps has a flashing light 
 that blinks faster to find them, but you don't have your gps out all the time as it cuts off half 
 your screen view. Even when you notice the blinking light you have to stop everything and do a 
 search for a stupid suitcase so you can put your gps away
   To many security checkpoints
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Khasinau
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 14, 2008 1:40 am PT
Review:  Ubi Soft has created a masterpiece. I'll admit, I was skeptical when I learned that Crytek was 
 in no way involved. But after playing through it, they've managed to take what Crytek did in Crysis 
 and Far Cry and improve it.
  
  The biggest strength here is the immersive experience the game provides. Thanks to its 50km x50km 
 map, you will find it very hard to explore the entire world... at the very least it will keep it 
 fresh.
  
  Also great - the graphics and sound... I would have liked a little more blood, but other than that 
 the guns are satisfying (unless they jam on you, which strangely enough never happens to the AI) 
 and sound amazing
  
  Yes, you can drive... sometimes it's a bit sluggish, but no real complaint there. Multiplayer is 
 solid - nothing truly special except a leveling system reminiscent of COD 4, but it is great fun...
 
  
  Buy this if you're even a little bit interested. It's a game well worth its asking price. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: quickspic12
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 13, 2008 11:20 pm PT
Review:  Ok so this review is pretty overdue, I apologize to any readers I have. This Game I also originally 
 had rated a 9.0, I have decided to lower my original rating to an 8.0 Inside this review you will 
 find why I lowered this rating. I have to go over this to begin with. The promised things with 
 this game were pretty grand in over all terms. We were promised that the game would have great 
 visuals, Good story, amazing immersion, also apart from the campaign and a pretty deep multiplayer, 
 we were promised a map editor to end all. 
  
  So, to start off good, (And I really need to just explain this) The map editor Delivered on EVERYTHING 
 promised. You're quite literally able to create a map that looked like it could be factory shipped. 
 The ability to make a very realistic looking mountain line and then top that off with realistically 
 propagated plants and a river alongside, then throw a molotov cocktail in the mix and watch it 
 all burn down. This was spectacular. The tools as well as being pretty neat, are also very intuitive 
 and made it so easy to make an impressive level in no time. So many different items to be able 
 to use, being able to create a pallet, and use it for the rest of the map was great, no more hoping 
 to get everything looking similar like in Halo 3. You can literally just copy and paste intricate 
 buildings that you've made. This really makes the game worth the $60 all in its own.
  Delivered- YES!!!!
  
  Now, immersion was another deep mechanic that was promised. It was surprisingly 
 immersive. I cant think of how many times I simply got lost in the world, wandering around searching 
 guard posts, finding diamonds, or just driving around. The map being in game took a little time 
 to get used to as driving with it out could be a small hassle. However after a little time I noticed 
 that the road signs were highlighted by color, pointing in the direction of the mission you wanted 
 to go through. Also, being able to choose if you wanted to go in silently at night and use silent 
 weapons, or just wait till it was midday when the sun was high above and just burn places to the 
 ground and kill any stragglers, either way the choices of how to pull off a mission are endless.
 
  Delivered- Yes
  
  The story however, was the first flaw. Aside from the great immersion, you really never feel that 
 anything major is happening. The part of the world you're in and it doesn't seem to show the real 
 gravity of the war in Africa. Yeah you work for some African guys but thats really not enough to 
 show the war torn side of the country. Everywhere has quarrels, thats really all you ever feel 
 like it is. A simple gang war. Also the briefing pieces of the game, the people talking either 
 speed through what they have to say, or have extremely long pauses between each piece of dialog. 
 This end just seems to drop in quality.
  Delivered-No
  
  Now, I know the visuals are a huge part of gaming for some people. This game has some good visuals, 
 but for the most part their pretty mediocre. Your hands have the old last gen blockyness
  as with your arms and weapons. However, the shadowing and the environments look Amazing. I cant 
 really explain how good the game makes the ridged mountain lines look at dusk, or the fogginess 
 after it rains. Either way you look at it the majority of the graphics are not that great. You 
 look at Crysis and its lush jungles that you feel you can touch, this doesn't quite nab that feeling. 
 It looks good, but not that good. 
  Delivered- No
  
  Multiplayer is NOWHERE near as deep as what was explained. Its deeper than Halo 3, but doesn't 
 even touch the amazing complexity of CoD 4. Its fun but their is just something that feels off 
 with it, I cant quite figure it out but it feels not quite finished. Over all its fun if you just 
 want to putz around and shoot stuff. But this isnt one of those multiplayer games that is going 
 to steal you away from other games for months.
  Delivered-No
  
  Here is what made me lower the rating to 8. At the end of the game, no matter which ending you 
 choose, you can NOT continue playing after the end like in a GTA game. What this means is once 
 you get to a certain point in the game. You will lose all weapons, upgrades, diamonds, (and anything 
 else you acquire) if you want to just wander around the island again, you literally have to start 
 a new game. And after 30 hours, you don't want to start over again just to mess around, but not 
 have anything good. Dont get me wrong, Its a fun game, but all replay value is ruined, at least 
 for me because of this slight problem. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Moose9248
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 13, 2008 6:47 pm PT
Review:  OK, so Far Cry 2 is pretty good looking, I'll give it that. But as soon as I started playing it 
 I realized that it was severely flawed. Far Cry 2's story is almost non-existent. I can sum it 
 up in one sentence: You're in Africa and you are there to kill an arms dealer named "The Jackal". 
 *Spoiler Alert* : You kill him. *End of Spoiler*
  
  I have spotted a few gameplay flaws that mar this game. 
  
  One: There is no differentiation 
 between head shots and body shots. The last game I can remember that used that system was Golden 
 Eye for the N64. You can shoot someone in the foot the same amount of times as in the head and 
 they will die with the same amount of shots. And the amount of shots it takes to kill one enemy 
 is atrocious. You have to dump two clips of pistol into one enemy to finish him off, while five 
 people shoot at you. And the enemies seem to have even more health than you do.
  
  Two: Half the time you won't no where your enemies are shooting from. The game shows you a red 
 blur in the direction from which you are being shot for barely even a second. Then to add to your 
 confusion it blurs your screen as you are being shot, crippling your ability to find who is shooting 
 you. The draw distance is also not that impressive. Enemies look like indistinct white and brown 
 blobs when you are more than twenty feet away from them...... and I am playing on an HDTV. Then 
 what makes this even worse is that those indistinct brown blobs are hiding behind green blob bushes 
 or brown rocks on a brown grass background.
  
  Three: The amount of traveling each mission entails is daunting. If you took a quest on one side 
 of the map they will expect you to travel to the opposite corner to get to your target, and put 
 enemy camps every half mile just to piss you off. This wouldn't have been so bad if they maybe 
 A. Had a fast travel system or B. If when you cleared a base the enemies didn't spawn back after 
 you made a U-turn around the corner.
  
  What it comes down to is that Far Cry 2 is a a game that is very frustrating. It has potential 
 but it's gameplay is a major step backward for the FPS genre.
  
  Oh, nice...... an enemy just pierced my nipple with a sniper rifle from a mile away. I can't even 
 see him. %$ you, Far Cry 2! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: efoxneo
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 13, 2008 6:02 pm PT
Review:  Far Cry 2 to start has no connection to the first installment, and as far as I am concerned that 
 is a good thing. The first Far Cry played great, and looked great, but the story went in a horrible 
 direction, I just wanted to take out some Mercenaries!
  
  The people at Ubisoft Montreal have given me my wish, and planted gamers in 50 square KM's of lush 
 African desert, jungle, mountain, and shanty-towns, all filled with freedom fighter factions and 
 PMC's. Your job is to pick your side, or work for all of them, be it one of the factions looking 
 to kill their opposition, the peaceful underground trying to get refugees out, or one of the many 
 buddies, arms dealers or journalists you encounter looking for an end to their means (mostly through 
 you starting a fight) .
  
  As far as I am concerned, the story that Gamespot has failed to pickup on is created by your actions, 
 and as they (the missions) may get repetitive sometimes (think Assassin's Creed) , they are fun, 
 and the combat is just awesome. The game does a great job in immersing you through the first person 
 perspective, and adds a lot of interesting features, most of which where mentioned by Gamespot 
 (pulling out rounds from your arm, hand, or leg, giving yourself morphine, and the possibility 
 of your gun jamming or breaking) . 
  
  Far Cry 2 adds a few RPG elements to a FPS, and does well in a beautiful visual package filled 
 with a lot of adventure, excitement and possibilities for the protagonist that you choose to be. 
 
  
  I recommend it to anyone looking for a great, somewhat realistic FPS, that truly brings you to 
 the dark side of Africa.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: airsoftmanic
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 13, 2008 3:57 pm PT
Review:  right, lets get the good stuff out of the way first.
  
  Graphics:
  as with almost everything these days it has superb graphics and a very natural feel to it. i almost 
 feels like im back in africa when i play this game, minus killing the inhabitants of course.
  
  Online:
  i didnt clock too many hours in the online as it was a compitant multiplayer but 
 didnt seem to have anything going for it apart for the soort-of half-arsed upgrading system.
  you'll have fun making maps though but about 75-80% of all the user-created maps seem to favour 
 snipers. alot.
  
  now we get to the bad.
  
  Gameplay:
  i need to address what im about to say, and say that the gameplay mechanics by themselves as ideas 
 are not bad in any way. what makes them bad is the execution of them.
  first off is my main complaint. it takes forever to get anywhere. there are bus stations which 
 act a quick-travel but they are so widely spaced that even getting to one is a chore. this wouldnt 
 be so bad if side-missions were close-ish to each other but they're on opposite ends of the insanely 
 large map which will make you turn the game off i assure you.
  now that wouldnt have been so bad if it were not for my next major issue.
  everyone wants to 
 kill you. every person you meet is packing heat and wants you dead, no questions asked.
  they have factions which i assumed would allow you to side with one or the other to gain a bit 
 of peace while travelling about but no. this gets extremely agitating when you are driving around 
 for side quests and get rammed off the road by a civvie in a 4x4 who has somehow aquired an assault 
 rifle and wants to rape you with it.
  now this issue would not be as bad if it were not for my third and last issue.
  every enemy can 
 take at least a full clip of any weapon before being wounded. this has to be the first game i have 
 ever played where the enemies have more health than you on easy difficulty.
  if you're shot with a full mag of AK rounds your taking a dirt nap, you try the same with an NPC 
 and its like you pinched him.
  
  overall:
  i was hyped for this game from all the vids id seen and all the fancy stuff they said "look, shoot 
 an enemy in the foot and his buddies will help him out and be distracted" but what we got was really 
 "Welcome to Africa: Kill Everyone"
  my advice is get fallout 3 as you'll get a better deal. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joshmcnutt
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 13, 2008 11:12 am PT
Review:  The mechanics of this game work very well, the world is believable and at times stunning. However 
 it is let down by so so AI and the fact that everybody wants you dead. If they had allowed for 
 you to perhaps try and drive through check point with out being opened up on straight away by the 
 enemy, allowing you to try and bluff your way through this would have added much needed suspense 
 in the action. The world is so large and involving its just a shame that there weren't some more 
 side missions or just different characters which were neutral to you. This game is at times too 
 repetitive the missions follow the same pattern nearly every time. In short this would and could 
 have being a great game if it had included some RPG elements to the game. Multiplayer is fun and 
 the map editor is decent. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: breed101
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 11, 2008 8:50 pm PT
Review:  When I first looked at Far Cry 2 on a few gaming websites, what I saw didn't seem out of the ordinary 
 for a game. On a second look, I saw a few things about it that are different from your usual sandbox 
 game.
  
  1) It's first person.
  Being a person that has been playing GTA (Yes, that's my one and only GTA reference.) for most 
 of his sandbox games, I didn't really expect to see a sandbox game as an FPS.
  
  2) It's in a realistic African setting
  Now this is what really surprised me. I had not played 
 a game set in Africa. EVER. This really intrigued me, prompting me to buy the game.
  Now, it may seem that I simply made an impulse buy when getting the game, but I am an avid FPS 
 player, and I love sandbox games.
  
  Now, when putting the disk into my 360, I was expecting a good game, nothing special, as the game 
 was not overhyped. You know, no massive in-your-face ads on TV, or massive ads on the internet. 
 In fact, apart from a few reviews from gaming sites, I did not know what to expect from this. In 
 fact, I was a little scared that I had wasted $120 (I live in Australia) on the game that I knew 
 little about.
  
  My fears were quickly put aside though, as I was quickly introduced to the country of Africa. Sun 
 shined through trees, fires were burning in the distance, and grass was blowing in the wind. All 
 while the taxi driver was explaining how the country had fallen apart. 
  But I was barely paying attention to the taxi driver's rambling. No no no, I was completely transfixed 
 by the fantastic visuals of this glorious 'country' that is the home of Far Cry 2.
  
  After being dropped of in the 'city' by the taxi, I was quickly unconscious from malaria. From 
 there on the storyline progresses, but I won't spoil it.
  
  After being let loose in the world of Far Cry, I quickly became convinced of how revolutionary 
 this game is.
  Day/night cycles, extraordinary AI (Far better than I have seen in any other game to date, and 
 I've been playing for over 10 years) , a massive map, realistic weapons, best fire effects ever 
 seen in a game and the ability to approach every single mission any way you want.
  
  You could run in with an RPG and throw grenades everywhere, or you could sneak around in the lush 
 African grass and trees quietly sniping your enemies.
  
  Your enemies. They by themselves are a core part of Far Cry 2. In Far Cry 2 the enemy AI is so 
 much more realistic than those of other games. Enemy AI will flank you, sit by a campfire at night, 
 go fishing, take cover when you are sniping, cry for help when they are wounded, and scream for 
 mercy, making the game so much more enjoyable.
  
  Far Cry 2 also does such a great job of actually sucking you right in. To date, not a single other 
 game has done this. The realistic grass, bushes, shrubs and trees all swaying in the wind make 
 you really think you are in Africa. The active day/night cycle proves itself by sucking you in 
 even further, as shadows move as time passes, and night is so much different from day, even to 
 the point where it influences the AI. Absolutely fantastic.
  
  However, with every game, there are difficulties. Transport in Far Cry 2 is limited. At times, 
 you may be forced to walk to your objective. In a 50km x 50km map, this is quite annoying. Driving 
 to your objective is also a pain, as this can take a large amount of time too. There is a bus system 
 which can alleviate some of the frustration, as it takes you to predetermined areas of the map, 
 Oblivion style (Instant transport) . I try to avoid using the bus system, driving to most of my 
 objectives, as there is so much to do and see in Far Cry 2.
  
  Far Cry 2 is a simply amazing game that should not be missed by those both new and old to gaming. 
 It features simply amazing graphics and AI that are perhaps the best ever seen, making this an 
 incredibly rich game set in a realistic African environment.
  
  Pros:
  * Excellent AI, weapons, graphics
  * Incredible fire effects engine, fire actually spreads
 
  * Engrossing. This game will suck you in and never let you go!
  
  Cons:
  *Driving can be a pain, but is somewhat alleviated by the bus system.
  *AI can sometimes be unpredictable.
 
  
  Overall score: 9.5/10 rounded to the nearest whole number = 10/10
  Rent or Buy: Definitely buy. If you take it slow and don't rush, as well as completing the side 
 missions as well, this game may take you anywhere from 20-50 hours to complete.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darth_Brahma
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 11, 2008 1:34 am PT
Review:  Far Cry 2 was a game that I've been longing to play for such a long time ever since Ubisoft announced 
 it. I was a huge fan of the first installment and from then on, I couldn't wait until the 2nd. 
 I finally got this game last week and to my surprise, it wasn't all cracked up to be. The story 
 is OK, but typical. Go kill the drug dealer. The graphics are amazing and I like the African environment. 
 The gameplay is simple and fun and easy to learn. After playing for a few days, I just got really 
 bored of playing it. Too repetitive. Same scene all the time and very little challenge. I never 
 died in the game, yet, and I'm playing on the hardest difficulty. There's a tremendous amount of 
 guns to choose from and that's one of the things I like about this game. For certain, Crytek shouldn't 
 have sold the rights to Ubisoft and should have created the game themselves. All of their games 
 were incredible; Far Cry, Crysis, and Crysis Warhead. 8 points for its graphics, easy gameplay 
 and a variety of weapons. Minus 2 points for its storyline, level of difficulty and it just got 
 boring. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FalconPunch39
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 10, 2008 4:32 pm PT
Review:  this game is pretty simple in what you do, you get a mission and go kill someone or blow something 
 up, i've seen a lot of people say that this makes the game shallow or repetitive. really? i honestly 
 love it because there are certain games that i deeply appreciate the depth of and play mostly for 
 the story line (BioShock) and then there are games that have a perfect combination of both gameplay 
 and story. But really i think what this game lacks in so called depth it more than makes up for 
 in the fact that the gameplay really is just plain fun. i know its gotten above average reviews 
 by the 1 to 10 scale standard but i still think some people give it a harder time than it deserves. 
 even if you aren't blown away by the plot or it doesnt seem complex enough, really do yourself 
 a favor and stop thinking so hard, its worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thebaronmoo
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 22, 2008 1:18 pm PT
Review:  Far Cry 2 is one of the most underrated and under hyped games of the year. It starts off slow with 
 an at least 10 minute long opening cutscene. But after that, it's full on balls to the wall action. 
 The graphics are amazing and really bring the African wilderness to life. The sound is equally 
 as good. The music is something I really love with this game. They could have gone for a Halo-esque 
 type score, but instead they made their own African music which is incredibly good. The story may 
 not be the best, but it certainly isn't the worst. The firefights are intense and can be extremely 
 difficult on higher difficulty levels. The map editor is incredibly in-depth and you can make nearly 
 anything you want. I haven't played much of the multiplayer yet but from what I have played it 
 is quite good. It is a revolutionary game for the first person sandbox genre. It is very long and 
 will take a while to finish. This is definitely a contender for game of the year in my book. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jayg88
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 10, 2008 11:30 am PT
Review:  I was really looking forward to this one for a long time. I've been a pretty big fan of the Far 
 Cry series to date but this game had nothing to do with those games. You're just some mercanary 
 in Africa that's gotta find this guy called "The Jackal". The African environment is absolutely 
 amazing. The graphics are some of the best I've seen and the wide open gameplay is a nice touch, 
 or so I thought. It turns out that ths game world is simply way too big. It took me nearly 7 mins 
 to get in my car, drive to the other side of the map. Once there, you kill some guy, and then drive 
 all the way back. This just gets repetitive and boring. And there are some things in this game 
 that are just annoying, like when all your weapons seem to get jammed and damaged eventually. And 
 by the way, your character has malaria, so you have to do side missions to get medicine for that 
 (the whole malaria thing is just pointless) . Anyways, from a technical standpoint this game is 
 outstanding, but from a story and gameplay standpoint, there's just not much there. Don't make 
 the mistake I made, rent this game before you buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Span5
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 9, 2008 4:14 pm PT
Review:  I have to be honest here... There have been quite a few 360 games that I have found disappointing. 
 This one certainly is no exception to that rule. I literally ran to GameStop to get this game when 
 it was released because I was such a fan of the fist FarCry, but I now know that I should have 
 waited a while for the price to come down. Lets go over the main reason that I didn't like this 
 game as much as I had hoped. 
  
  1) The single player portion of a game like this SHOULD NOT SUCK! I can't believe the lack of inspiration 
 that the single player experience has! It's amazing to me how the Devs can spend years creating 
 a beautiful and creative environment, character models, vehicles, architecture, and textures, but 
 then have a complete lack of creativity when it comes to mission structure. WTF!!! 
  
  2) Stupid CHECKPOINTS!!! I can't believe that 90% of this game involved driving up to stupid checkpoints 
 and killing the guards. It made me want to pull my hair out! It's gets even better when you fight 
 your way through a checkpoint and destroy everything just to drive to your objective and drive 
 back through the same checkpoint two minutes later to find that everyone is back and the buildings 
 are magically repaired. Did the Devs actually not think about this being a problem??? Either these 
 terrorists are magically inclined, or they have the fastest builders in history! 
  
  3) The multi-player feels unbalanced. It seems like people can take a ridiculous amount of damage 
 without going down sometimes. I think that someone might go down from an entire clip of AK47 rounds 
 to the chest in real life... Apparently the Devs do not agree. 
  
  4) The map editor was the entire reason that I purchased this game new. I was impressed with the 
 amount that you can do with this thing, but it is a little clunky and I have published three maps 
 without even a single download or review. A better system is needed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Viewtiful_Jim
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 8, 2008 10:35 pm PT
Review:  I was really hyped up for this game, on paper it sounded great; the oppertunity to traverse 50 
 square km taking on the enemies as I saw fit. In reality though the game just becomes repetitive.
 
  
  First things first the graphics are bloody good, never have i been so impressed in a game to see 
 the sun at dawn poking throught the dense jungle foliage. Graphics are not everything though, its 
 the bread and butter; the gameplay thats important and sadly its not all that great. The mission 
 structure is the same every single time bar a few, no matter what the objective is, be it secure 
 some documents, assasinate someone or sabotage enemy. Accept the mission, get a phone call from 
 your buddy, complete his secondry objective by going somewhere and blowing everything up, proceed 
 to the main objective and blow everything up, help rescue your buddy by blowing everything up. 
 Now you could argue that due the games sandbox nature u can approach the objectives however you 
 like, but i never felt the need to approach an enemy camp in a steathy manner as the only parameters 
 for failing a mission are you dieing, never does that change, you cant for example fail because 
 you have been spotted and so whats the point or trying to not be seen? That being said the explosions 
 are very, very satisfying and the fire effects are some of the best I have ever seen in a game. 
 A little more diversity could of done wonders though. Probably one of the most annoying problems 
 in this game is the enemy camps littered around the map that have guards constantly respawing if 
 you leave the area for just even 2 minutes, if they wearnt remanned for atleast an in game day 
 roaming round the map would not be as frustrating. The vehicles that patrol the roads arnt vehicles, 
 they are bloody homing missiles, as soon as they spot you they chase you down with reckless abandon 
 never wondering if through the darkness they are shooting at one of their own men for example. 
 its very much shoot first ask questions later with these guys. Oh yeah, and the ability to go prone 
 would of been nice.
  
  Often a game can be forgiven for slightly repetitive play if it has a compelling story, but sadly 
 this is not the case here. never did I feel bothered about the struggle between the UFLL and the 
 APR as you end up working for both sides, you never have to pick a side, you do all the missions 
 for one leader, then do the same. The factions also suffer from being exactly the same, when you 
 get attacked in the wilderness nothing differentiates one side from the other they both look the 
 same and you are never really sure whose camp you just blew up. Never do you get the feeling there 
 are two warring factions, it just feels like everyone versus you.
  
  The Multiplayer is fun and solid, but it does nothing new, and is no reason to stop playing your 
 current fps multiplayer of choice. The map editor is also a great edition, i cannot say how it 
 is on the pc verson but the one on the xbox is easy and intuitive, if you have the patientce you 
 can make some great maps and i suspect this is where the game will last.
  
  So to sum up; the game is great to look at, by far the best looking game on the 360 so far, but 
 the gameplay and story can be a little weak at times, as a technical excercies this game is amazing 
 but as a game thats fun to play it just misses the mark 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wheelman112
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 8, 2008 8:17 pm PT
Review:  I've owned it for about 4 days now and I really like it, it's just I don't fully understand the 
 game. I don't know if it's just me being stupid, but it might make sense to other people, I hate 
 travelling, no gps routes/shortcuts, annoying crazy people trying to run you over. That's enough 
 with the negatives for now, I'll get to them later, on with the possitves. The graphics are outstanding. 
 The lighting, and fire effects, the water, the trees and bushes and grass effects are just crazy! 
 The way you will look at the sun and then a beam of light will come down and reflect off of the 
 water your standing next to is just aboslutely satisfying. The fire is probably the best fire effects 
 I have ever seen in a game, ever! You can literally burn a forrest down. The water is unique because 
 you dont dive in and see everything, you see dirty stuff everywhere, it really makes you feel like 
 you diving in a real dirty butthole of a river. The gun effects are really cool. If you use a new 
 gun you just purchased from a gun shop, it will be clean and work great. If you take a gun from 
 an enemy or you use a gun you bought for a long time, they rust and jam and they will eventually 
 break. It's very, veeery realistic, in fact, to realistic. That's what I hate about this game, 
 IT'S SO DAMN COMPLICATING!!! Driving to a mission start place, which is hard enough to actually 
 find it because the map (even though many people will disagree) is terrible. I can't see anything. 
 Plus there's no GPS route or waypoints like in GTA or Saint's Row or whatever, which makes it really 
 hard to find out how to get there, especially when you follow the road to where your supposed to 
 go and then find it on a hill surrounded by steep rocks that you can't climb over, you go around 
 it and you can't find an opening, can be really frustrating. There is a fast travel, but guess 
 what. You need to drive/run/swim/rocket jump (CoD4 humor) to a frigging bus station, and when I 
 got there, I didn't even figure out how to actually fast travel, or even get in the bus. But hey, 
 a 7 is a good score, and so is 8.5, I recommend this game, but ONLY if you have patience to figure 
 it out. Plus Gears of War 2 is out now, and Left 4 Dead is out in a week, and CoD: World at War 
 is gonna be out soon, so I suggest (unless you have the money) to get one of those, this is a really 
 hard game to pick up, but once you understand it, it's phenominal. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: killaguru11
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 8, 2008 7:14 pm PT
Review:  I was expecting alot from Farcry 2, and I was happy to find out all my expectations not only were 
 fulfilled, but exceeded. The environment is rich and full of feeling and exploration. The quests 
 are fun and fulfilling when you complete them. The story may not be perfect, but it's pretty much 
 all about the action. This brings me to the gun-play. I have never felt the heat so much as being 
 in the thicks of a gunfight and having to jam myself with a syringe to stay alive and fix a jam 
 in my AK47 to continue mowing down baddies.... well baddies in my opinion. The only real gripe about 
 the game I have is that I wish they would patch the AI.... one minute you can walk behind an enemy 
 and jump around and he won't notice you, the next you can be 75 yards away at night and hell spot 
 you like an eagle..... BUT there are always patches if this is an issue brought forward alot by 
 people. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: surfshark
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 8, 2008 1:55 pm PT
Review:  I have had the pleasure of crossing an invisible barrier, hiding somewhere inside Far Cry 2. This 
 barrier, clear and undefined, is right out there for anybody with an open mind and some free time. 
 
  The barrier I'm speaking of is a point when you realize that Far Cry 2 is genuinely fun to play.
 
  
  At first I thought it was so so, then the game seemed to jump up in difficulty, only to leave me 
 panicked behind my controller. 
  
  I'm not going to nuts and bolts review this game for the sake of repetition. Several others have 
 laid out this game in its mechanical form. I will simply lay out the fun that can be had with this 
 title. 
  Peering through the scope of a sniper rifle with jungle leaves swaying in front of me, I realized 
 this is what I wanted to see through the scope of so many other shooter titles. Do not get distracted 
 by the beauty or god-like power of spying on the enemy from afar. After that first shot the enemy 
 will know you're there. I mean play this game on it's hardest difficulty and they will flank you, 
 out maneuver and downright frustrate you with their tactics.
  
  A lot of games give you this false sense of security knowing that the player is the strongest character 
 and the enemies are no match. Far Cry 2 truly steps it up a notch, leaving you gasping at the end 
 of a firefight. 
  
  If you take the driving long distances for what it is worth you unlock a whole new game inside 
 this game; a driving simulator with beautiful landscape and a few surprises around the curve. 
 
  
  Give this game some time and an open mind, and you will be rewarded by the uniqueness and gritty 
 atmosphere. Whether it is ripping a shed to pieces with a grenade launcher or sniping a guard that 
 is so far that he doesn't show up on the map, there is fun to be had with Far Cry 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shannydanny
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 8, 2008 10:30 am PT
Review:  Having a very long, boring and unskippable intro/tutorial is not a good way to get someone excited 
 about playing your game. I don't think I need to tell you if this game has one or not. Just read 
 my rating.
  
  Once you do finally get into the game proper, you're presented with a wide open-ended world which 
 is, apparently, all open to you. However, while this may be true, you will soon realise that it's 
 not such a good thing. Firstly, the number of loacations you actually have to visit is few, and 
 even then these sparse towns offer nothing different; they all seem to be a bunch of shacks which 
 may sometimes hold a mission for you. Bad enough, but getting to these places is even MORE annoying; 
 a lot has been made of the distances you must travel, both positively and negatively, but the one 
 thing that cancels out any other argument is the guard posts: they are at almost every crossroads 
 and are always full of guards who always shoot you on sight, always have a jeep to chase you endlessly 
 in and always manage to survive being shot 50 times in the chest.
  
  This brings me onto the enemies in general; the 'realism' goes straight out the window when these 
 guys are mentioned, mainly because they seem to be possessed of super-intelligent and super-stupid 
 AI at the same time; they will hear a machete swing from half a mile away, know exactly where you 
 are if you throw a grenade and be able to shoot you accurately from a very long distance with a 
 shotgun. And yet, they refuse to enter buildings, even if they can see you inside one, they will 
 drive straight towards you regardless of what's between you, namely another car, and do not seem 
 to understand that fire hurts them, even while complaining that the fire they are standing in the 
 middle of is burning them.
  
  The combat isn't fun; the guns are weak and inacurate, even after upgrading them, and the jamming 
 system, where your gun can get stuck after degrading, does nothing for tension, merely it only 
 serves to annoy you when you cannot find a decent weapon anywhere among the enemies, though they 
 never have a problem with jamming.
  
  It's not all bad, the graphics are awesome and the fire is mesmerising, but there's no point when 
 the rest of the game is so crap. I would normally suggest you rent a game before passing judgement, 
 but in this case I won't blame you if you decide not to do either. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wyska
Rating: 4
Date: Nov 8, 2008 9:54 am PT
Review:  This looks absolutely amazing and you spend the first hour going through the tutorial and going 
 'wow'. Unfortunately the plot is pretty weak, not going into nearly enough detail like Fallout 
 3 does and the missions always have the same objective - kill everyone. Having 50 square KM of 
 ground to explore sounds good on paper but it quickly becomes tiresome. For some reason whenever 
 you clear out a checkpoint of enemy mercenaries a whole load more appear two minutes later. And 
 the attempt to include buddies to help you out is a nice idea but it's all pretty superficial. 
 The multi player option is OK but weak compared to Halo 3 or COD. 
  
  The reward structure where you build up an arsenal of weapons and find hidden diamonds to pay for 
 it all is great and you're never short of ammo and health so it doesn't turn into a war of attrition. 
 
  
  A real shame because this got hyped up and it totally fails to deliver. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: halo1579
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 8, 2008 1:58 am PT
Review:  when i first put the game in my xbox 360 i thought it would be a really good fps shooter! there 
 were some loading screens then a tutorial! in the tutorial you are in a taxi/jeep and a guy is 
 driving you somewhere! you look around the spectacular scenary and then you hit yourself with malaria!! 
 wierd but coool.
  
  then you find yourself in a room with the jackal!! scary man!?! he talks to you about somfing den 
 you are in a gunfight and it is really hard if your not used to playing on a xbox 360!! i got shoot 
 so many times!! ouch then i got my strength back and i f***ed them up!!
  
  this game has really different style of storyling!!
  
  you can choose from 9 characters I was 
 quarbani Singh!! and you can choose which missions you do, which missions you dont, who dies, which 
 side do you want to work for either the UFLL or the APR personally i think the APR because the 
 leader in the UFLL is a bit of a **** lol
  
  any wayyyys
  
  graphics 10/10 nearly better than crysis
  gameplay 9/10 could of done a bit better
  story 10/10 
 because you can choose your own story!
  moneys worth? yes
  duration about 25-50 hours of gameplay depending on your skill level and how good u r! im about 
 a 7/10!
  lol
  
  overall i think this game is a 10/10 strong!!
  
  there is a lot more to the game but i can not explain it all
  
  it took me just under 26 hours 
 to complete and i finished it in 2 days!! playing nearly 13 hours a day!!
  
  it is addicting 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lacedelli
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 8, 2008 1:45 am PT
Review:  The FPS genere nowadays is one of the most popular, it is to be admitted that the FPS game get 
 more and more competitive day by day with innovations like Call of duty 4 perk system, rainbow 
 six vegas bullet penetration, and other kind of gadgets and engines.
  
  FarCry2 has itself a handful of those gadgets and engines that helps it from outstanding on the 
 competitive gaming industry nowadays first of them is their fire propagation system wich helps 
 you to turn a peaceful savannah into you personal piece of hellfire, along with a variety of exploding 
 objects and highly volatile ammunition piles that will force you to have your eyes peeled looking 
 out for any of these objects.
  
  Another one of those gadgets is the sandbox map editor, Ubisoft did an outstanding job making a 
 User-friendly map generation tool, along with a map community where you can upload your creations 
 and get a rating according to the many users that download it.
  
  The story mode starts off by selecting one out of nine mercs, wich you will play trough the whole 
 "campaign" for calling it someway, as far as I noticed there is no difference between each character, 
 besides the meshes of course, each merc has different reasons to kill "the Jackal" the person in 
 charge of selling weapons to the two main factions of a conflict in africa the UFLL and the APR, 
 you are taken to the only hotel left on the area, wich you are forced to leave when a firefight 
 starts in Pala, the town you're in, and so it begins your adventure.
  
  one of the complaints reviewers have according to the story mode is that the setting is way more 
 complex than they make it, tough I don't share that opinion because you play a merc, just a merc, 
 you go in, make the job and get out of there, you could of course get more involved but after all 
 you're in for the money, not to help.
  
  with a handful of side quests, buddy missions and underground assignments, Far cry 2 is able to 
 keep you entretained for a long while, without even mentioning exploring.
  
  Just like every rose has its thorn, Far cry 2 has got some flaws, but the most noticeable and by 
 far the most annoying is that enemies will whitstand a big quantity of bullets.
  
  wrapping it all up, Far Cry 2 is a good gameplay experience that no one should skip 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Techdude99
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 7, 2008 10:07 pm PT
Review:  Now, I just got my Xbox 360 (after years of having to live with out-dated computers and consoles) 
 and my first game is Far Cry 2. Now I've never really been able to enjoy the older Far Cry games, 
 I had bought a copy of the original far cry for PC but it could barely run it, like.. barely. and 
 I got Far Cry Instincts for Xbox but I couldn't beat if, it might've been because i was too lazy 
 or the last level was really hard (i really hated those screeching exploding mutant, just plain 
 creepy..) ANYWAY
  
  On first popping the disc in, I was welcomed with a cool Ubisoft logo that would look freakin awesome 
 if you put it on a pumpkin for halloween or something, after beginning the game I was taken for 
 a short country-side tour, it was very atmospheric, immediately after a cutscene your thrown into 
 a gunfight, which was exhilarating, having only a pistol and limited ammunition really got my heart 
 pumping.
  
  First of all, The Graphics are beautiful, the Night cycle is one of my favorite time, driving through 
 the plains, sometimes i just hop out of the jeep and take a look at the Milky Way, it just looks 
 so realistic and awesome.
  
  The Weapons are great, at first i disliked some of the weapons because of their poor aim and recoil, 
 but after i got more and more conflict diamonds i bought more of the manuals, and my weapons suddenly 
 improved, one of the coolest moments of the game would be besieging a camp and confusing the crap 
 out of the enemies by setting an IED off at a large propane tank on the opposite side of the base 
 and sneaking into a guard-tower and sniping off the stragglers as quickly as you can before they 
 realize where you are shooting from.
  
  The story is okay.
  
  The Convoy missions are really fun, after you get IED's you can set up these elaborate traps for 
 the convoy, by setting an IED right at an intersection with your vehicle is blocking the exit, 
 you set off the IED right under truck and send several RPG's into the guard trucks before they 
 realize what hit them.
  
  Congratulations, you've reached the end of my review. you must be really bored.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ratavaquera
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 7, 2008 4:29 pm PT
Review:  Ok, first:
  
  Ubisoft made a great work doing this game because the environment and sounds are soo real and unique, 
 there are jungles, desserts, rivers, lakes and more in this fantastic Open World Shooter.
  
  Well... the Story its SImple:
  Kill the Jackal
  
  The missions of the Story are also 
 simple:
  Go there and talk/kill
  
  and..
  WHY did i rated this game with 9.5!?!?!
  
  Because its so fun and inmerssive that you forget everything else, you can play the game the 
 way YOU want:
  
  Rambo-Style (like any other shooter.. but BETTER)
  Stealth at night (or day if you want to make it harder xD)
  BOOM-Style (so funny!, the fire propagation 
 its the best)
  Sniping (havent tryed this yet )
  
  
  or better: DO WHAT YOU CAN IN THAT MOMENT (sometimes you will not be able to snipe or kill with 
 BOOM Style bc you are out of ammo lol)
  
  You start the game and you get bored.. why? because you start killing at a small road and the only 
 thing you can do is walk and shoot (you cant go stealthy or kill them from distance) , once you 
 finish the "Tutorial"... the fun just starts!
  There are lots of weapons, cars and sniping points after some hours of play, so.. the more you 
 play it, the more you enjoy it! (thats why if u rent it, you wont like it)
  
  
  Thats how i can resume the story mode!
  
  THe Map Editor its the BEST feature of this game! 
 its 230% better than Forge... thats enough
  
  Multi Player 
  Its fun, it has good maps (dont forget fire propagation!) and you can unlock powerfull weapons 
 , its simple, it doesnt offers some new stuff but its bloody fun!
  
  Resume:
  
  Gameplay:
  SP -  9.5
  MP -  9
  AI : 9
  Malaria - 6
  
  Graphics:
  Textures -  8.5
 
  Environment-  10
  
  Sound:
  Guns -  10
  Nature - 10
  Voices -  9
  
  DOnt rent it, just buy it, play it for more than 4 hours at least... and you will enjoy it!
  
 
  Good:
  Inmmersive
  Great Graphics 
  Lots of weapons and ways to play the game!
  Great Map Editor
  Bloody fun MP
  FIRE PROPAGATION!
  Bus Stops! (makes travelling easier/faster)
 
  
  The Bad
  Patrol Cars/Guard Posts respawn each time you load your game : (
  Malaria, i still dont get it: WHY do i have malaria?! it just causes some annoying moments! but 
 you can live with it xD
  Bad physic, but i dont care about it!
  Can save only each time you start/finish a mission or at "Safe Houses" 
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: psychotoxic35
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 5, 2008 10:46 pm PT
Review:  FARCRY 2 HAS BEEN ENGINNERED FROM THE GROUND UP WITH NEW PYHSICS ENGINE UNREAL III - NEW GRAPHICS- 
 TEXTURES, AI - 10/10
  
  THE OLD FARCRY 1. BASED AROUND A DESERT ISLAND FROM WAY BACK 3-4 YEARS AGO HAS nothing in common 
 really with FAR CRY 2. FARCRY 2 topday 2008 SEEMs TO HAVE BEEN ENGINEERED WITH THE UNREAL III PHYSICS 
 ENGINE reworked from the ground up and has realistic destructive enviroments more similar to the 
 like of CRYTECKS CRYSIS, however thats just a person opinion, to help you see the level of detail 
 that has went into the game.
  
  The Ai can prove difficult to beat, so if your a newbie to fps genre please take the difficulty 
 level away down to its lowest setting, the xbox 360 very is certainly the most stable console platform 
 for this release and the better looking game with a little more frps.
  
  I have given this game a full 10 outta 10, cuz I think its definately one of the best shooters 
 released this year 2008. other games to watch out for if you like Far Cry 2, is Fallout 3 and GEARS 
 OF WAR 2. if you have the money invest in all 3 xbox 360 versions.! THE XMAS... GOOD REPLAY VALUE.
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: XxJDUBxX025
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 5, 2008 10:05 pm PT
Review:  Ok im going to say that i was very excited for this game to come out, as i loved the first one. 
 I got the chance to play the game tonight, and i very strongly feel its missing alot of substance. 
 It reminds me of a game people play when they have no other game to play, or dont want to have 
 to really try. The beginning of the story lost it for me when i had to sit in a car for almost 
 going on 10 minutes, and then had to wait another 5 so some random guy can tell me i have malaria. 
 Idk i guess for me there was alot of hype in my eyes for this game, and i felt i didnt get any 
 of it. Graphics are good tho a+ on that :D. The guns are very unaccurate or so they seem when your 
 having to shoot at a enemy 20 30 rounds just to get him to fall, then he gets back up!!! (maybe 
 its about headshots) lmao. But as for the story goes i was not very happy, way to much driving 
 around the city it takes 2-10 minutes in a car just to get about anywhere. Im sorry i want to kill 
 some people not sit behind a car. If i wanted that i would have gotten GRID (which is badass) :D 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: major_cain
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 5, 2008 7:48 pm PT
Review:  I really wasn't expecting much when I picked this game up. I was just thought that it would be 
 another 1st person shooter, but I have to say that I was dead wrong on this one.
  
  All the small little details that are apart of this game is what really makes it great. Things 
 like spreading of fire to pulling a bullet out of your arm or leg when your health is almost gone. 
 Also the fact that weapons can jam and eventually even break completely just add a certain amount 
 of realism to this game that I haven't seen people really develop to well in newer games.
  
  The graphics of this game are very well done. The amount of detail that goes into almost everything, 
 the way trees blow in the wind, and the rivers and bodies of water, even the changing of time, 
 weather it be dawn, afternoon, dusk, night.
  
  Overall the story does get a little bland over time, but the free roaming and choosing what missions 
 to do and how to do them is something that makes games great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DARKESTxNME
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 5, 2008 3:50 pm PT
Review:  Farcry 2 (FC2) is a really kick ass FPS game... but not perfect! I got FC2 because i played and beat 
 Farcy (PC) and Farcy Predator. Single-player is boring at first and the story takes a bit while 
 to get to the point but when it does... it gets you occupied. Which is a good thing. To beat story, it 
 took me around 27hrs to beat! I love long difficult, entertaining games! FC2 is one of them... and 
 the landscape is huge! A good Plus+ 
  
  Map-editor is addicting... if you not here for the map-editor, this game wont have any legs. Thiers 
 alot, i mean alot space and objects. This game is worth it just for this....... A Big PLUS+
  
  Multiplayer is fun and badass... Good maps, good weapon varietys (including rusting) , good server 
 rarely lag, good ranking system, organized leaderboards and stats, map-editor helps multiplayer 
 alot... the downside is that it takes alot of bullets to kill one guy! this isnt CoD4 but similar, 
 and for me im very good! Multiplayer is just solid! nothing new to the genre.....
  
  This game is worth checking out but remember their are better games out their including Gears2...
 
  
  Thankz! I appreciate of you reading my review...
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: tomo876
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 5, 2008 9:37 am PT
Review:  Its got action, blood and the visuals to make the perfect game. Its the much awaited sequel to far 
 cry instincts and the most anticipated feature it had was the map editor. You have the ability to 
 craft and structure a world of your own out of a blank canvas, there are thousands of objects, houses 
 and bridges to chose from. It is like forge on Halo3 but the freedom to edit and create your own 
 landscape has been focused on in this game instead of just the ability to edit objects. The plot 
 of the game is pretty simple, you have been sent to Africa to take out the Jackal, a powerful arms 
 dealer who is fuelling both sides of the war with weapons. I think that there are some parts of 
 the story that let the game down such as the fact that you have to travel from one end of the map 
 to another constantly, it's like a never ending scavenger hunt but across a 50k landscape in the 
 heart of Africa. Another let down is the malaria, when the game begins you suddenly develop a case 
 of malaria and from that point on you are forced to take tablets every 40-50 minutes real time 
 to keep the malaria from killing you. But what happens when you run out of medication!?? well its 
 yet another journey across Africa but this time your not hunting down the Jackal, your hunting down 
 some malaria pills!! Multiplayer on far cry 2 is great there are four game modes, uprising which 
 is similar to domination, deathmatch, team deathmatch and capture the diamond which is basically 
 capture the flag. There are not many choices of game modes but the gamplay and the thousands of 
 maps you can play and download make that a barely noticeable matter.
  So overall Far Cry 2 is an excellent game that will take you months to get bored of and it is a 
 must buy!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dropless2002
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 8, 2008 7:23 am PT
Review:  Just got this game yesterday. Iv put in about 5 hours and its just plain awesome. Its a rather 
 hard game as i started it on hardcore rather than normal. I got the game used but its worth 60 
 dollars, as i haven't even put a dent in the game. The world is huge and unique to each player. 
 Its a strategy game as much as it is a first person shooter. 
  
  I love this game and all its insanity but there are few warnings i would give someone that has 
 not played it.
  ~Some what tedious travel lengths, especially when killed and have to repeat a 15 minute trip
 
  ~The malaria is just plain stupid-when a jeep pulls up there is and a turret gun in your face 
 and suddenly you have to take pills, ahhhh its instant death.
  ~The weapons jam and seem slightly underpowered
  
  I still give this game 9.0 as the good far 
 outweighs the bad. If you have a 360 and your looking for a great FPS when a sandbox environment 
 its the best for sure. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: meekon5
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 5, 2008 7:45 am PT
Review:  I am already vastly impressed by this game even after only having played it once.
  
  1) no boring transitional screens as you move from inside to out or area to area.
  
  2) bit 
 unforgiving at first but a vast relief from Fable 2 (I know they're trying to get "none" gamer 
 types to have a go but please Peter can we have an option to turn the dying back on next time) .
 
  
  3) I've already run my first checkpoint and been driven off the road by the guards (fantastic) .
 
  
  4) I think setting fire to the ammo dump in my first "safe" house may have been a bit of a mistake 
 but we live and learn. You do get a feeling that all your decisions make a difference in the game 
 world.
  
  5) I can't wait to get home tonight to continue playing it.
  
  6) Bum I need fifty more characters to actually publish this so am having to put ext 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TX360
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 5, 2008 3:07 am PT
Review:  Far cry 2 360 review
  
  Introduction
  
  Far cry 2 has visuals that you would not have thought possible on the next generation machines 
 with a stunning draw distance and amazing textures but can it offer unreal visuals and amazing 
 game play well read my full review to get the answers.
  
  Single player/ story
  
  Far cry 2 has you free roaming Africa to complete your missions this sounds like real life and 
 it gets too close for comfort due to the size of the map which makes travelling extremely repetitive 
 and on your travels you will meet AI that end up chasing you now this can be very frustrating when 
 you have made such a big journey and then to be killed by AI that are nothing to do with the single 
 player this is what holds far cry 2 back its obsession with realism almost kills the game you even 
 have to repair the damage to your car and with the AI that chase you in a jeep you need to walk 
 around them making this a tedious tiring experience. The games missions are not even that good 
 you go somewhere kill someone or stop a convoy that is guarded by that ridiculous AI once again. 
 The games weapons even ruin the game further they jam when its really not convenient and they feel 
 very underpowered although with that said they are accurately designed and look like the real guns.
 
  
  Don't stop reading yet I am not a hater of this game but I do think the Montreal team have made 
 a very frustrating single player that its over realistic.
  
  Multiplayer
  
  I played this for a while its actually good at times but the guns mostly ruin it when you are trying 
 to shoot someone from a distance buts it's a good MP that sadly is too much like the SP itself
 
  
  Map editor
  
  Far cry 2 best feature its so in depth you could spend hours with it I got some laughs out of my 
 map which was a joke but at the same time it was the best I have seen yet and makes halo 3 look 
 like a complete joke
  
  The good
  Stunning visuals that put the others to shame
  Very realistic world with enemy AI healing and helping each other
  Map editor is fantastic
 
  
  The bad
  Too realistic for its own good
  Frustrating travelling
  Uninteresting missions
  Ai are far too good even on lower difficulty settings
  
  Score 7.0/10
 
  Ambitous and almost rubbish 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kuvze
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 5, 2008 2:43 am PT
Review:  unlike the tropical island that our eyes are used to from the word farcry, farcry 2 is an entirely 
 different experience but gains in all levels to be an outstanding achievement. the african setting 
 is wonderful with the real large world to explore, aptly set vehicles, daynight cycles which are 
 remarkably well made, terrain is superb with amazing physics to all objects, the forest fire to the 
 beautiful green valleys, from the dusty tracks to wooden bridges, from slow rugged vehicles to smoother 
 suv's and bajas, great weapons with easy controls, great bullet impacts (especially for all sniper 
 rifles) , explosions, boats, first person details like eating medicines, removing bullets, falling down 
 and gettin up, repairing vehicles, correcting jammed rifles are all outstanding and well detailed, great 
 and simple story, well detailed environments and superb matching missions all account for a wonderful 
 gaming experience. free roam to finish missions adds to the fun of playing something different eachtime. graphics 
 are top notch, sound and music, physics, map system and in vehicle map holding methods are all new, different 
 and well made. full marks to ubisoft.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -SPECTER-MIKE
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 4, 2008 6:24 pm PT
Review:  As you begin your first seconds in Africa it is clear that you are in for a treat. Upon viewing 
 the stunning visuals in your preliminary jeep ride, you can get a sense of what is to come. The 
 game begins with you suddenly ill with malaria and waking up in a shanty hotel. A mysterious figure 
 is talking to you, all the while outside a battle rages on. Welcome to Far Cry 2. Escaping the 
 hotel will be your first task and after you have one goal, do what you need to do to find the Jackal. 
 The arms dealer responsible for the war. The game allows you to complete missions and objectives 
 in any way you see fit. Whether it be by blowing everything up in sight with your RPG, or waiting 
 until cover of night to quietly slip in and dispatch your enemies. Far Cry lets you complete it 
 at your own pace. The single player portion will take up most of your time at first, but there 
 is also a very good multiplayer component, and lets not forget about the amazing map creator. Gameplay 
 is good, and little weird at first, but you will catch up. Visuals are amazing, one of the best 
 I have seen since Bioshock. Sound is fantastic, from the explosion of a car to the sporadic sounds 
 of AK fire, it delivers. Playing Again, you will be spending a good amount of time trying to find 
 the Jackal, also you might wonder where a few days went trying to get that last map of yours just 
 perfect. Overall Far Cry 2 is and excellent game that will enjoy years of appeal. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sniperboy_recon
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 4, 2008 1:04 pm PT
Review:  Its not just a game, its an experience.... I am a big fan of call of duty 4 and the controls in 
 Far Cry 2 are really similar.. this game is really fun and the environments are awsome and most 
 of all the single player is really fun and the multiplayer is also really fun also... the only 
 thing i dont ike about far cry 2 is your health... instead of bieng like call of duty 4 where they 
 shoot you and your health goes down and you hide and then it restores... instead you have to look 
 for health and you cant save your game whenever you want... Its a great game and if you like roaming 
 around in africa this is a must buy.. Totally Recommended
  
  
  
  Gameplay 9.5
  
  Sound 9.0
  
  Graphics 10
  
  Multiplayer 9
  
  Overall 9.5
  
  
  
  
  
  h h 
 h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h 
 h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h 
 h h h h h h h h h h h h h h 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: hinder109
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 4, 2008 11:18 am PT
Review:  bought the game the day it came out, not knowing how it was gonna be. popped it in the 360 and was 
 quite surprised. the first thing i noticed was the amazing graphics. IMO the graphics in this game 
 are the most impressive up to date. another feature i liked alot was the map editor. it was much 
 expended from the original .
  heres my full review.
  Story line:8.6/10. the story is alright but after awhile it seems get a bit repetetive.
  Presitation:9.5/10. the 
 presitation is tight.
  Graphics:10/10. the graphics are jaw droping.
  difficulty8.5/10. the difficulty is pretty challenging, however i witnessed some crappy AI during 
 some missions.
  Learning curve:8/10. it takes some time to get used to the controlles and how the game plays.
 
  replay value: high. this game is fun to play a couple times, but if you dont have xbox live, then 
 it gets old after awhile.
  Closing thoughts: this is a must have for any xbox360 or ps3 owner. This game is by far on of my 
 favorite titles ,therefore i give this game a 10/10.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: TalSet_11
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 4, 2008 10:44 am PT
Review:  so, it's here. farcry 2. i didn't pick it up immediately after it came out because i wanted to 
 have some time to give it some thought. after all, sixty bucks is a lot of money. in the end though, 
 i'm glad i took the plunge and got it. 
  
  before i go any further, let me say that, even on my absolutely horrible TV, this game looks awesome. 
 grenades blow up small shrubs and send leaves everywhere, molotov cocktails can start huge brushfires, 
 and a shot to the dome causes a spray of blood that's remeniscent of the visceral headshots in 
 gears of war.
  
  the story is basic, and you'll never really feel all that involved, which might actually be the 
 plot's saving grace. think about it. the average mercenary doesn't really have all that big of 
 an impact on national events. while you're running around and doing missions for the various factions 
 (i'm devious and i'm playing both sides hehe) you feel like a small part of a big world. the one 
 thing that doesn't make sense is that, when a faction gives you a mission, thier guys will still 
 try and kill you. oh well. TIA, right? (see blood diamond)
  
  the mission structure is good, but odd. you get a mission, and then you have to travel an inordinate 
 distance to complete it. if you have buddies (the other playable characters that you didn't choose 
 at the onset of the story) they can give you alternate ways to complete the mission, but you often 
 have to travel an inordinate distance to see them, too. and driving around and whatnot is fun and 
 all, but it gets tedious to drive for about 15 minutes to do a mission. i drive for a living. trust 
 me, i don't really need to drive more
  
  the combat is a. w. e. s. o. m. e....
  the combat is (a la fps commonality) the best part of the game. the enemy AI can be punishingly... 
 well... intelligent. they'll flank you, they'll revive fallen comrades, and they can basically 
 do anything you can do. grenades destroy EVERYTHING with amazing graphical presentation. the videos 
 don't do it justice. you have to see the fires and explosions to believe them. watch out for jeeps. 
 they try and run you over while the gunner unloads on you. not very much fun. if you get low on 
 health (40% or lower) you are injured and have to heal. this usually involves setting a broken 
 bone or pulling a bullet out of yourself, which is cool and feels realistic, but about 10 hours 
 into the game i can't see how a person could survive after pulling 30 some odd bullets out of himself. 
 oh well. video game.
  
  in the end, this is a savage game that will (for one reason or another) take up a lot of your time. 
 75% of that is enjoyment, and the other 25% is because you'll need to take a lot of time to maneuver 
 around the map. if you can get past a few shortcomings, you'll love this game. while different 
 than the first farcry in a number of ways, it does make a number of improvements to the formula.
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Freeman_O2
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 4, 2008 6:28 am PT
Review:  When you start playing FC2, you feel like the developers did all in their best to annoy the player, 
 constant re-spawns in checkpoints, a lot of patrols cars, the malaria bs, but as you progress and 
 get new gear, youll find the sweet spot of the game, since you can approach each combat scenario 
 in many ways, want to go out Rambo-style? check, want to flush some enemies? burn those btches 
 up , want to be stealthy? Wait for the night and get a sniper, the gunplay feels great, and the 
 controls are tight.
  
  Maybe the story is a miss, but it doesnt get into the action, well maybe the malaria stuff but 
 like I sad its not a drag. A little bit rough on some edges (damn the re-spawns and the save system) , 
 But overall a great immersive FPS experience, lots to do, and whats most important, it nails the 
 good feeling that comes when you shoot and blow things up.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: kilibot
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 3, 2008 7:51 pm PT
Review:  In my personal opinion, this game is one of the best I have ever played. However, there are a few 
 small gripes that are in the game that might deter some of the more nitpicky gamers out there.
 
  
  On the positive side, the game is very beautiful and action-packed, a fantastic combination. The 
 very common fights are always a treat due to their intensity and overall bad@$$ feel. All of the 
 weapons have a very unique feel, and they all will get dirty, jam, or break over time. There is 
 also an awesome day/night cycle in the game, which could have been gimmicky if not for the ingenious 
 African setting. Lastly, the multiplayer is average until you get into the absolutely fantastic 
 mapmaker.
  
  However, no game can ever be 100% perfect, and Far Cry 2 is no exception. There are only three 
 main gripes that I have with it, however. First, the AI, while always a challenge, can sometimes 
 be great and other times be very basic (like standing still in the open while firing an AK) . Also, 
 there is not a save-anywhere option in the game. While there is always plenty of safe houses (save 
 points) it can still be annoying if you get sent back a few miles of terrain after death. Finally, 
 there is an issue with missions. While all are always fun to do due to the intensity of the battles, 
 every mission type is essentially always the same goal (blow up this, kill him, steal this...) . 
 Again, not a huge issue, but it may lessen the enjoyment for some.
  
  Essentially, get the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: soldine
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 3, 2008 6:58 pm PT
Review:  Alright so I have played through this game once now and starting again, just because of all the 
 things id still like to experience. The game has tremendous replay value and will stick with you 
 for a long time. When I first started the game ill admit I was a little dissapointed but things 
 really start to pick up at around 10 percent completion and when I looked back I realized why: 
 The tutorial is short but throws everything at you at the same time, you have to get used to it 
 and ease yourself in. The only reason the first few battles are hard is to teach you what not to 
 do and what to do in a given situation. Such as actually taking cover to heal yourself instead 
 of trying to do it infront of seven angry mercs unloading clips into you. The game also allows 
 you to really plan how and when you want to attack your target whether it be from assassinating 
 an important man or destroying a fuel tank, and allows you to take full advantage of the day night 
 cycle. Like approaching silently with silenced weapons and taking out as few enemies as possible? 
 go for it. Like going full frontal with bombs, grenades, machine guns and wrecking the place? totally 
 doable. Wanna burn the place to ash? grab some molotovs or a flamethrower and start your inferno! 
 Another very cool system is the "buddy" system. You have many buddies that will act as other mercenary 
 freelancers and are your friends. They can be very use full, from saving your butt in a gunfight 
 to giving you a better deal for a mission. It can also be very sad at times when they pass away 
 right beside you, or them pressing the pistol in your hand to their neck when your out of syrettes 
 and asking for you to end their misery. The only reason I would not give this game a ten is because 
 of a somewhat disappointing ending which was not at all a bad ending, its just it could have been 
 better. Anyway if you are a fan of open world first person shooters than farcry 2 is definatley 
 a game for you! enjoy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Saiyan12
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 3, 2008 1:49 pm PT
Review:  I'm going to break this review up into three main parts: singleplayer, multiplayer, and Map Editor.
 
  
  Part 1 - Singleplayer
  I'm not very far into the story but from what I've expieranced so far, the singleplayer has been 
 a blast. Many of the objectives are unique and interesting, and the game looks fantastic on my 
 42" HDTV. I do have a few minor complaints, such as the weapon objectives, which are the same each 
 and every time. Also, the constant guard outposts and extremely annoying. They are fun every once 
 in a while, but when you find one around every damn turn, it becomes tedious. Besides these minor 
 annoyances, the singleplayer is a fun, solid experience.
  
  Part 2 - Multiplayer
  The multiplayer in Far Cry 2 brings nothing new to the table; you have your standard modes - deathmatch, 
 team deathmatch, capture the flag, and territories. The multiplayer is great experience, and much 
 of the mechanics from the singleplayer are included, such as fire propagation and healing wounds. 
 You'll have endless hours of fun ranking up and trying out new maps made by the community. Lag 
 is rarely an issue. I only have a problem with lag 9/10. The multiplayer is fun and addicting, 
 and will keep you hooked for hours after the story mode.
  
  Part 3 - Map Editor
  This is where Far Cry 2 really stands out among other shooters. The map editor is such a powerful 
 tool and can add endless amounts of fun for those creative minds out there. Theoretically, with 
 the map editor, anything can be made, given enough time and effort. You get objects ranging from 
 tiny pebbles to huge bridges and everything in-between. This also supplies an almost endless amount 
 of new maps to play and try out online, which adds tons of replayability.
  
  Conclusion
  Far Cry 2 is a great game and should be played by any FPS fan. The singleplayer is great, albiet 
 with a few nagging issues, the multiplayer is fun and almost neveredning because of the phenomanal 
 map editor. If you're not sure, rent the game. Believe me, you won't regret it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SiLeNt_SpYdEr
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 3, 2008 1:47 pm PT
Review:  After selecting the main character, instantly one is put in a demonstration of FC2 environmental 
 graphics. The clarity and display instantly blow ones mind. There is one objective to complete: 
 Take Out JACKAL. Though struck with malaria, the character is instantly put into action. With weapons 
 that realistically jam and break, pulling out bullets from a gushing arm, the game makes one think 
 that a new design is coming on into the gaming industry. Though speaking about all the great features 
 that it has. Let's not forget that no game is perfect. The continuous unnecessary fighting scenes 
 begin to take a toll on you after a few hours into the game. It won't mean much to a gamer that 
 is blood thirsty and on a rampage using any weapon he/she can get a hold of. From assault rifles, 
 snipers, pistols to the power of a bazooka. Oh, and lets not forget to sharpen that handy machete 
 to take out an enemy when ur out of bullets. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jed1516
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 3, 2008 8:43 am PT
Review:  alrite this game is defenetly one of the most impressive and greatest shooters i have ever playd 
 controles wore briliant a good storyline fun to play great multiplayer you have to play it at least 
 6 games before you judge or your just another **** who only likes realy hyped games its map editor 
 makes it were you can do watever the heck you want and is veryfun to play player created maps a 
 new experiance for people who only play one game you cant play this game and not like it ive seen 
 people play it and say its ok but they wore fans of only hi rated games gears of war wasnt as good 
 as people said it was overated i can talk about because i acualy own it people who dont even own 
 this game and never had even played it talk crap about it just because cod and gears cod4 was a 
 good game realy good way better then gears but this game is simply better then those games it all 
 come down to bye it or cry when you find out how good it is 
::::::

::::::
UserName: walker1846
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 3, 2008 12:22 am PT
Review:  Positives
  - Stunning visuals are a sight to behold the fire is ultra realistic and a great tactic to use 
 against your enemies.
  - Massive world of destruction really you can get lost in Africa.
  - Good variety of weapons to use and freedom of the way you tackle your objectives.
  - Intersting 
 characters you kinda give a **** about it is hard to face up to killing a buddy and also the moral 
 choice you face when attempting assassinations.
  - enemy AI is smart and ruthless most of the time.
  
  Negatives
  - With the game map being 
 so huge it kinda takes **** ages to get to a specific objective luckily there are safehouse to 
 save your game if you die.
  - enemy AI can be rather retarded sometimes like not responding to your fire but they ussually 
 are very good.
  - the story is immersive but could have been more fleshed out.
  
  Graphics- 9.7/10
  Sound- 9.4/10
  Gameplay- 9.3/10
  Overall- 9.5/10
  
  Really why would 
 you want to miss this package and get lost in africa for a couple of hours on end it truly is a 
 spectacular experience and while not perfect Far cry 2 certainly has the potential to be a game 
 of the year nominee Gamepots review does not really do Far cry 2 any justice whoever reviewed the 
 game for gamespot should pull the carrot out of there ass. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: superman060
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 2, 2008 3:47 pm PT
Review:  I'll try to make it short and sweet hopefully I make it to the sweet part.
  
  Graphics are just awesome. Best I have seen on the 360 and probably for a while.
  
  Sound is 
 kinda bland. Don't get me wrong the sounds are great just after playing games such as Dead Space, 
 Battlefield Bad Company, and COD4 the sound just isn't as fleshed out as those games. By no means 
 am I saying the sound is bad trust me.
  
  The gameplay is sweet gunfights and handling (controls for everything) are great though the traveling 
 can be a bit cumbersome. Most people don't like traveling everywhere, but I rather like it. Lets 
 ya take in everything.
  
  AI is incredible in some parts and very dumb in others (kinda 50/50 never know what you're gettin 
 on every encounter)
  
  I like the story, but the voice acting could use a little help. The voices themselves are cool 
 they just talk way too damn fast. Almost seems like they're speakin another language and throwing 
 in some english sometimes.
  
  Multiplayer is alright. Not the best, but not horrible. To me it kinda feels like Soldier of Fortune 
 Payback's multiplayer, don't know why it just does.
  
  Map editor is absolutely amazing. Take the xbox map editor and add a lot more stuff and there ya 
 go. The sharing of maps has been made a lot better too being able to see ratings and know how many 
 hits it has had.
  
  One other thing I would like to mention is the atmosphere the game has a mixed Crysis/S. T. A. L. K. E. R. 
 feel to it. Very powerful yet still weak kind of feeling.
  
  If ya ask me buy it used and if ya don't like it just return it so ya don't even have to spend 
 the $5 renting it. I do this all the time, and yes I am that cheap. lol 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alizerothree
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 2, 2008 2:29 pm PT
Review:  Being a huge fan of Farcry 1, I had high hopes for the second rendition of the CryTech action extravaganza. 
 Farcry 2 has no only met my expectations, but continues to impress and surpass my desires! The 
 attention to detail is phenomenal, and I mention this because this is one of many key features 
 that really sucks me into the game and makes me feel immersed in the world.
  
  The graphics are gorgeous. I don't like how they are handling the shadows but it's totally understandable 
 since the game is cranking such insane draw distances and such. The water and environments the 
 game takes you through are so well done and realistic that it's hard not to look at other titles 
 and wish they had the same level of depth as Farcry 2. The weather effects, HDR lighting, fire 
 spreading effects, atmosphere, character models, and level design are truly mesmerizing.
  
  I have been exploring for hours on end and have not noticed the game becoming boring or repetitive. 
 Maybe some people just don't get the game. I love driving around and hitting all the encounters 
 differently. I could go in Rambo style, or sit with an SVD sniper rifle and shoot out fuel canisters 
 to start a huge massive brush fire. It's really epic.
  
  My only gripe, like other have said can be found in the AI. Sometimes they are just plain retarded, 
 but most of the time, the AI works quite well, especially when they are in large number. They speak 
 to each other, take cover when shot at, and try to flank you from all sorts of different positions. 
 Overall, it's a great experience, although sometimes they take too many shots to be taken down. 
 :)
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dcraine
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 2, 2008 9:55 am PT
Review:  Let me first say that this is a beautiful game in terms of the visuals and sound; an the overall 
 gameplay is very good. The choice of weapons is very good. The choice if vehicles is limited but 
 they handle well, and that's the most important thing. If I could rate based on categories, I'd 
 give the graphics and sound a 9.5, voice acting an 8.5, the overall story an 8.5, but the delivery 
 of that story line a 6.0. The reason I lowered the overall rating is basically that I found myself 
 reluctantly slogging my way through different campaigns (which aren't that different at all) in 
 order to achieve very minimal advancements in the story line. The story itself is very good; but 
 you don't realize it until the end of the game. Let me describe some of the game to see if I can 
 make my frustration more plain.
  The game is divided into three Acts. Act 1 finds you arriving in Africa on a mission to kill an 
 Arms Dealer known as the Jackal. Pretty plain stuff as far as video games go. But as soon as you 
 arrive you're struck with malaria, captured by the Jackal and then released by him for some unknown 
 reason. So far so good. At this point, once you escape the village you're in, you essentially become 
 a mercenary working for two different factions that are vying for control of the country. The rest 
 of Act 1 finds you performing missions for these two factions which really have no direct impact 
 on the overall story line (like answering questions such as: "Who is the Jackal? Why didn't he 
 kill me when he had the chance?, etc") . You get paid in diamonds for the jobs you perform which 
 you can use to purchase weapons. You also can get diamonds by performing side missions which always 
 involve assassinating someone. You can unlock new weapons by performing jobs for weapons dealers 
 which always involves blowing up a convoy. You can also get diamonds by finding them in briefcases 
 scattered around the large world that your character occupies. And this is part of the problem. 
 The world is large and thus moving around it takes time. There are bus terminals at the center 
 of the map and in each corner that can be used to move quickly between those locations; but even 
 with that you'll spend a long time moving up and down roads and fighting past checkpoints to get 
 to your targets. This is fun the first few times; but after a while I found myself getting frustrated 
 when, in order to unlock more weapons I accepted the repetitive mission of blowing up a convoy 
 only to find that the target was on the opposite side of the map and it was going to take me a 
 significant amount of time to get there. The scenery of the game is gorgeous, but that only takes 
 you so far. Then there's the checkpoints. Every checkpoint is hostile. There's no way of avoiding 
 it. So you're only tactic is to kill everyone at the checkpoint or try to go around it. i think 
 that Mercenaries 2 actually offered an interesting alternative to these two choices by allowing 
 you to snag a vehicle from a faction and then essentially imitate a member of that faction so as 
 to slip by certain locations undetected. No such alternative exists in Far Cry 2. so most missions 
 will find you trudging back and forth across the country and fighting everyone you come across. 
 Then there are the "buddies". These are separate NPCs that you meet along the way that help you 
 out either by rescuing you when your health gets too low or by giving you alternative ways to complete 
 missions. About half way through the game I found the buddies to be more of a distraction than 
 a help. Their "suggestions" always made the mission more complicated, involved more traveling, 
 and yielded benefits that were out of proportion to the amount of work they involved. I gave up 
 on them half way through and just started completing the main missions so I could keep the story 
 going. Anyway, you proceed in this manner until the end of Act 1. At that point you reeve a mission 
 that "goes bad" and you're essentially left for dead. 
  The beginning of Act 2 sees you rescued by the Jackal again and essentially starting the whole 
 thing over again working for factions (this time with different leaders) . This was a little frustrating 
 because it feels so contrived. it feels like, that in order to lengthen the playing time of the 
 story line, they just decided to repeat the first level all over again and just change some of 
 the characters. So, you end up slogging your way through the required missions of Act 2 to get 
 to Act 3. Again at Act 3 you get another meeting with the Jackal, at each of which he reveals a 
 little but more of his overall plan. At this point I think the story gets more interesting, but 
 of course you're almost done with the game by now. The ending itself is fairly dramatic and I enjoyed 
 it a lot. But I felt like I had to trudge through some over-contrived missions just to get there.
 
  I would have liked to see more story-oriented missions in-between within each Act in order to 
 keep the interest level up. There; s not really enough diversity in the battle strategies to keep 
 you that interested. Also, the first Far Cry (of which I am a big fan) also had a much more open 
 world (I thought) . This world is expansive, but so much of it is inaccessible (or at least difficult 
 to access) because of the terrain (lot's of mountains and ravines) that you find yourself locked 
 into some very basic movements anyway. For example, you might want to avoid a particular checkpoint 
 on a map, but you can't because the road that it lies on runs between two mountains which you can't 
 climb over so you're forced to go through the checkpoint. I would have liked to have seen the ability 
 to climb over some of these geographic areas. Maybe you can't take a vehicle, but then if you choose 
 to move more slowly in order to achieve a better strategic position, you should be able to do it.
 
  Anyway, this is all to say that this is a good game, and I'm sure the multiplayer part is great 
 (I don't do multiplayer but I can imagine this one would be fun) . But if you're looking for a compelling 
 story that's revealed well, then this is probably not the game for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PyrosFury
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 2, 2008 12:05 am PT
Review:  Score is the average of the below scores. [5.8 rounded to 6]
  
  Graphics 9/10
  Sound 9/10
  Controls 5/10
  Gameplay 4/10
  Fun 3/10
  Multi-player 5/10
  
  Graphics were 
 amazing, fire effects awesome [emphasis on the 'awe'] , and the battle-field banter of your opponents 
 communicating were great. The controls were iffy. Having to bring up your map [takes up most of 
 the screen] to use your GPS or monocular was frustrating, especially trying to navigate in combat.
 
  
  The enemies took WAY too much damage what is supposed to be a "realistic" game, and mixed with 
 the high recoil and iffy controls of your weapons made killing them difficult.
  
  The jamming idea was pretty cool, although poorly done. It happens WAY too often, and at the worse 
 times, like not when I'm just screwing around shooting random things, but when there is an enemy 
 with a shotgun a foot away and my AK locks up. Mind you, these aren't "jams," such as stovepipes 
 or bad rounds, it's a RUSTED SHUT BOLT.
  
  
  Now personally, I thought there was too much action. I know, 'shut up, it's an action game.' In 
 my opinion, an open world game needs to have longer lulls in combat. i might be going from my safehouse 
 to a mission, and on the way there, I'll pick up a tail of one or two guntrucks, so I have to stop, 
 kill them, heal myself, repair my vehicle, then get going. Then, on the way from that finished 
 mission to my safe house, I'll run into some checkpoints where they fire on sight and more guntrucks 
 chase me down.
  Some might like this, but I prefer a safe drive to my save point.
  
  Which brings up another issue. Save points. In the PC version, you can save anywhere, as it should 
 be. in this, you save when you finish a mission, and at safe houses. if you have to take down an 
 outpost or something, it's nice to save right outside of the outpost so you can plan your assault, 
 maybe try spreading fire, charging in, or sneaking in.
  
  This just isn't for me. Some may like it, but I suggest renting it first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cjo1992
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 1, 2008 9:13 pm PT
Review:  I played the game for the first time last Friday and was loving the game. But as I went farther 
 into the game I started getting annoyed by the jeeps that randomly respon and try to run you over 
 or crash your car. It takes about 20 to 30 minutes or so to get to a mission that should take about 
 20 minutes to get to. Also the guard posts get annoying and I wish there was check points. But 
 I love the map editor which will be the life line for keeping the online portion of the game up 
 and running. Its hard to get used to at first but after an hour of using the map editor it will 
 be easy to use. The grafx are just awesome and has better grafx then a lot of the grafx away. The 
 sun sets look really good. Start forest on fire and watching it spread is awesome. I have to say 
 out of all the games I own this game has the best fire effects ever. Some people are complaining 
 about the ais but I think there fine. I still haven't been able to do a mission in stealth but 
 it seems hard but you just need the right weapons. The only problems I have with the online part 
 is when someone is driving a car and your in the gunner it seems to lag. I dont know if its just 
 for me or what. But I would recommend it to someone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: klasco
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 1, 2008 8:23 pm PT
Review:  Far Cry 2 Review
  
  Game style:
  FPS Open world non linear (single player: 1 player)
  linear-ish story though. 
  Platform:
  Xbox360 and PC
  Amount finished:
  PC 100% main story 
 by doing all buddy missions as well
  Hours of gameplay (just main story by going fairly quickly) :
  30hours
  
  PC Specs: (my pc, 
 the important stuff)
  3.2ghz Quad Core QX9770
  3gb DDR3
  Nvidia GeForce GTX 280
  Asus Xonar D2 Ultra Sound Card 
  
  Diff played for review:
  Hardcore (2nd hardest diff) 
 
  
  The Good:
  50km2 Map with various environments
  Good variations in weapons 
  Realistic style game (healing, running, weapon animations, movement animations, vehicles etc etc 
 feel pretty real btw this doesn't mean it's realistic but has a realistic style there is a difference)
 
  Best current FPS game so far in my view 
  Plausible Story
  Immersion 
  Healing (getting majorly injuried see's you having to take out bullets, stop burns and relocate 
 limbs. you have 5 tiers of health the last being the part were you'll have to go into a animation 
 to stay alive as you slowly die) 
  Map Editor (the ability to jump into your map pretty much instantly is great
  and just map editing 
 in general is the best I have ever seen!)
  Multiplayer (16 player support with Deathmamtch, team deathmatch and CTD ie. capture the diamonds)
 
  Possible Content updates and download might be available in the future
  Weapons! (good variety)
  Day/ night system
  First Person Constant (your always in FP mode and 
 moving and shifting etc is done in a realistic way for example you see your hands grab the car 
 handle to get in etc etc)
  The AI (don't think it dumb staying in one spot camping is pretty much suicidal in Infamous anyway 
 well everything in that diff is suicidal) 
  Graphics!
  Dunia Engine (only had one frame rate issue and one stall which was good since I played it for 
 12hours straight in a very warm room on the xbox360 version)
  Loading system is great
  Weapon Jamming
  Sound effects are awesome
  The game has good story a little slow and boring 
 at first but keeps getting better and better... eventually anyway. 
  Fire! (most realistic fire I have seen in a game and yes it is big point as well) 
  
  Good 
 and Bad:
  Having Malaria (this is relevant to the game) .
  Cut Scene's or the lack of them
  Linear-ish story (isn't always a bad thing when the story is 
 good)
  
  The Bad:
  Getting attacked by Patrols (happens to much and there are too many road block posts) 
  The Sniper 
 Rifles are the primary not Special Weapon which limits the way you might want to attack
  Can't Continue after finishing main story
  No proper weapon upgrades ie. Scopes, under barrel 
 G launchers
  Getting one place to another (happens with heaps of large map games)
  Can be repetitive at times but if you just love the action its no problem
  Had the right layout 
 for Co-op with the whole buddy system
  The story could have been deeper
  Can't play as a girl (for some it can be a issue, just putting it out their)
  No real civilians 
 (I wanted to see slums and poor people around more or saving them from abuse etc could of helped 
 make the story deeper) 
  I hated been attacked so many times by the patrols and the roadblock post are so annoying there's 
 just too dam many off them
  
  
  Conclusion:
  This is a great game well worth playing for those who love to shoot and like plenty of action. 
 This is a FPS dream for me personally. 
  But if your not into FPS and don't like the journey's taken to get to one place to another then 
 this is not the game for you (obviously) .
  
  Overall Score:
  8.9/10 (get it in other words)
  
  Fanboyism in the review:
  not really there I think
  
 
  Random thoughts:
  I want the next one in Siberia. Where do you think the next one should be? 
  Mini-gun (just wanted 
 one for some reason)
  oh and a Mi-24Hind Attack helicopter in game would of been so 
  awesome (I wish) 
  
  Found any mistakes or have something to say then email me
  subject: 
 Far-Cry 2 Review 1.0
  
  Review
  Version 1.0 un-edited
  2 November 2008 
  #001
  Game Released 23/10/08 AU 
  Bought on release date 
  Collectors editions
  PC and Xbox360 
 
  
  Review by: 
  Klasco 
  klasco@gmail. com 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tropicalbert
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 1, 2008 2:22 pm PT
Review:  "Far Cry 2 has a good campaign, a solid multiplayer and an AWESOME map editor that will keep this 
 game going for years."
  
  First of all, Far Cry 2 is not a game for everyone. Sure, you can set the difficulty level for 
 the campaign, but the multiplayer can take some time to get used to. That's just something that 
 will fade away over time, but don't stop playing after a couple games. 
  
  The Campaign:
  
  -Not much to say here. Decent campaign for what I've played so far.
  
  The Multiplayer:
 
  
  -Like I said, really good multiplayer (among the best ones up to date) . It's hard at first especially 
 since the reload times go from 0 to 20 seconds. That's something that slows down the game action. 
 There is a decent amount of maps to play on ranked, some are small and some are gigantic. You win 
 Exp for killing people and every time you go up a level, you are awarded with a DIAMOND. You can 
 use it to upgrade the classes, therefore, unlocking more weapons and bombs. The party system is 
 not really good since you can get kicked out by the host, usually, the strongest player.
  
  The Map Editor:
  
  -This is where Far Cry 2 stand's out. The map editor is the best one I have 
 ever seen, at least on a console. You can edit everything from geometry to spawn points to vegetation... 
 The community has already created some really interesting maps like D-Day or Impossible Race. Just 
 think of what the maps will be like in a few weeks/months! You can play and rate other peoples 
 maps and the interface is easy to navigate.
  
  Achievements:
  
  -Achievements are pretty hard on this game. Some, like reaching level 30 in multiplayer can take 
 a LONG time to be unlocked although the other ones will unlock as you play (without you chasing 
 the Achievement) 
  
  Conclusion: 
  
  The GOOD:
  -Good campaign (50 square kilometers to wonder free in) 
  -Good multiplayer that will last long 
 and be fun
  -Very Good map editor that will bring out some VERY good maps in the close future
  
  The BAD:
 
  -Multiplayer respawn system
  -Party menu
  -It's hard for your maps to get NOTICED in the community
  
  Score:
  -Gameplay: 3/5
  -Visuals: 
 5/5
  -Online: 4/5
  -Campaign: 4/5
  --------------------OVERALL 4/5 -----------------------
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vexx88
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 1, 2008 12:47 pm PT
Review:  Well your mission is simple go to Africa and kill a guy named the Jackal that is providing weapons 
 to the many African's there causing a lot of violent things. When you get there you get Malaria.... yay! 
 Thus the game begins... The game takes place around 2 waring factions the APR and the UFLL. Getting 
 around will be fun at first with how massive the map is. There are various cars and Jeeps with 
 machine guns all over the place but you will be attacked... A LOT. Enemies are every where around 
 the map. Diamonds are the currency in the game you get them by beating missions but there are also 
 221 diamond cases spread across the world containing 1-3 diamonds in each.... getting them all can 
 be a real pain though. There is bus transportation but they only take you to the outskirts of the 
 map. You will also meet a bunch of buddies along the way that will also give you missions as well. 
 Buddies can rescue you if it says there buddy-ready but if they are injured you can do either 1 
 of 2 things save them with a Syringe (that's how you heal but ill get to that next) or switch to 
 their side arm and kill them with it to ease the pain. As I was sayign you use syringes that are 
 full of morphine to heal you. When you are down to critical health and start bleeding to death 
 you press the same button that you use to heal with the syringe to stop whatever is causing the 
 pain, it is a cool animation that usually involve you pulling a bullet out of your arm or fixing 
 your broken hand. 
  
  
  There are a total of 28 weapons in the game and you can upgrade all of them. You can carry 3 at 
 a time a Primary, Secondary and a Special, you also have a machete on you at all times as well. 
 The controls are excellent being the same as Call of Duty 4 except that there are no special grenades.
 
  
  Online is 16 players with the basic game types. Deathmatch, Team Deathmatch, Capture the Diamond (Flag) , 
 and Uprising (which is a mix of Halo 3's Land Grab and VIP) . Uprising is probably the most unique (actually 
 the only unique game type) out of all of them, The object of the game is to kill the other teams 
 captain. To do this you have to take 3 spots on the map, which the other team can take back, then 
 you are able to kill the other teams captain and win the game (The captain can die as many times 
 before all 3 are captured) also the only people that can capture the key points are the captains 
 themselves, the only real downside to the game mode is that the captain NEVER changes who ever 
 is captain at the start is always the captain. I don't know if this is a downside but, if neither 
 captain is killed for good before the game ends, no matter how many key spots one team holds its 
 always a draw.
  
  Now on the reason why you will probably by this game. The Map editor you can make a map out of 
 everything its almost like photo shop how in depth it is. You can control everything to how cloudy 
 it is, to how many trees or what time of day it is. There is no multiplayer simultaneous editing 
 though like Halo but its understandable to how much stuff you can interact with in the game. You 
 can also download other users maps that people upload also.
  
  There are some major downsides to the game in general
  -The A. I. Its stupid. Really stupid. The 
 only time they are dangerous is when there in insane numbers.
  
  -Multiplayer is a complete knock off of COD4. With less customization.
  
  -The story is Average
 
  
  Overall its a great game but don't expect an amazing Story or multiplayer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: suplax
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 1, 2008 2:08 am PT
Review:  First my rates.
  Graphics 10/10
  Sound 8/10
  Controls 6/10
  Gameplay 4/10
  Fun 3/10
  Multi-player 5/10
  History 6/10
  
  The first farcry was a amazing experience, 
 the history was very good and intense as you progressed in the game.
  The game graphics were amazing and the gameplay and the controls fantastic, very fun on the first 
 time.
  But when you play farcry 2 for the first time like 30 first minutes you will think something like 
 "WTF this is awesome" after 2 hours is more likeyeah... ok "
  I don't even know why the game name is farcry, there is nothing to do with the first one, maybe 
 because the game make you wanna cry ?   
::::::

::::::
UserName: heroman00
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 31, 2008 5:48 pm PT
Review:  Game is very hard. Entertainment Value is High. Realistic Game. Gun Jams , Realistic fire effects 
 and all. Great Multiplayer. Great sound effects. Voice acting is top notch. Great Story line. Very 
 Hard Game. Far Cry Series is not for newcomers to action game. Not Much Blood. Strong language 
 ,though. Wish it would've came out sooner though. Overall great game. Does have some down sides 
 though. Relativly long loading screens. The fact that you have to take malaria pills every twenty 
 minutes or die. And you cant run that far. When on foot it takes you forever to get from point 
 a to point b. Basically you have to perform a hit on a near mythical arms dealer who has never 
 been caught even though he is wanted by many countries. His name you dont know all you know him 
 as is the jackal. It is the best in the series .It takes place in Africa with savannahs, jungles 
 , rivers and mountains and deserts. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: illufox
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 31, 2008 4:37 pm PT
Review:  This game should have been named "Far Cry 3" as this is the third game of this series. The previous 
 games were named:
  
  Far Cry Instincts
  Far Cry Instincts Evolution
  
  I've always been a huge fan of this series, especially because of the beautiful environments, sound 
 effects and game play. Sneaking up on enemies through tall grass, over mountains and from under 
 water was always a unique feature of this game series. 
  
  This new game doesn't disappoint. The graphics blew me away from the first minute, and that's not 
 all that impresses. The reality in this game has been taken further than in any game before. I 
 happen to play on an 80 inch screen which pulls me right in. Often I forget that I'm sitting in 
 my living room! 
  
  The game starts out slow so you can get familiar with the environment, weapons, safe houses, vehicles 
 and so forth. At the beginning I had a hard time killing the enemies, but soon I found out how 
 to approach them, and once I upgraded my weapons it became a more and more satisfying experience. 
 
  
  The search for diamonds adds to the excitement, as they are not always easy to find.
  
  The vehicles are a blast, they take you from point A to Z fast and the Jeeps turrets are the 
 best way to take out attacking enemies, especially since it turns 180 degrees.
  
  This game is definitely for anybody who loved the sandbox feature of GTA as well as realistic FPS 
 games like Call of Duty 4. It's pretty much a mix of the two. 
  
  The only negative comment I have to give is that the enemies seem to be able to always see you, 
 even if you are behind a tree or big rock, and their bullets always hit you, while this is not 
 the case for yourself. I often have to shoot my turret at a guy who keeps standing up again and 
 again. This can be somewhat annoying at times. But the rest of this game well makes up for this 
 small annoyance.
  
  I mainly buy games for the single player, but I went and checked out the multiplayer which didn't 
 impress me. The graphics are not as good as in the single player, the maps are boring and the weapons 
 don't seem to be very effective in killing anybody. You can literally shoot a guy in the had up 
 close and personal with blood splashing out of his brain, but he just keeps running away!!! I guess 
 I'm spoiled from Call of Duty where one bullet can kill you in an instance.
  
  I also checked out the map maker which is fun to play around with, but this is more something for 
 people who have nothing else to do. In order to build a decent map you need hours upon hours of 
 design time. I wished I had the time, but I have a too many hobbies already.
  
  This game is simply fantastic and should be on the list for "Game of the Year" as the developers 
 have put a lot of work and thought into it. And this is one of the few games that can actually 
 take you out of your living room and into a world that's far away from where you live. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RedDragon111
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 31, 2008 10:04 am PT
Review:  When i first read about this game, it looked boring to me. A few months later, i checked up on 
 it again and it looked amazing seeing all the physics, animations, etc. So i pre-ordered it maybe 
 a month before release. It was worth it. First off, the world is huge and detailed, theres a great 
 selection of guns. While there may not be as many guns as other games, their all very detailed 
 in how they look and fire (the mgl is one of my favorites :D) . The physics are great, and the detail 
 to how things wear down is awesome. Lets say you get an ak and go through many battles with it. 
 Its not gonna be shiny new, its gonna be dirty, rusty, and everything inbetween. The dirtier it 
 gets, the less it works. It will jam up, having you hit a button to unjam it. And eventually it 
 will just break and no longer be usable. The only bad part of this game is the destruction. The 
 box says everything is destructibe.... yeah right. It should say MOST things are destructible. For 
 example, if you throw a grenade on a wood bridge the railing will break, but the bride itself stays 
 intact just fine. The cement and brick buildings arent destructible at ALL. Its not a big deal, 
 but still, it could be better.
  
  Another good part about this game is the multiplayer. I dont know why, but i cant stop playing 
 it. Maybe its because the single player physics are also in multiplayer....
  
  Overall, its a very solid, fun game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: clepsydra
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 23, 2009 4:01 pm PT
Review:  I wanted to give this game a "10" based on its gorgeous graphics, lighting, sound effects, and 
 atmospheric detail. However, the missions are so repetitive that the excitement quickly wears off. 
 You can't travel very far without having to kill enemies at a post that you took care of just minutes 
 ago! Thankfully, the immersion, interaction, and realism (old weapons breaking, e. g.) mostly make 
 up for the downfalls such as speedy voice talent and misplaced objects. Load times can also be 
 painful if you're waiting for the same area to reload. (Why must developers continue to torture 
 us with time-sucking load methods instead of resetting the area and adding a Quick Save feature?) 
 The printed play time of over "50 hours" is because your missions are always on the opposite end 
 of the map! I also ran into the same numerous freezing problems that gaming forums are talking 
 about, relating to bad save states. Even with perfect ambiance, the execution is just too buggy 
 and tedious. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Raikoh_
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 31, 2008 12:38 am PT
Review:  Far Cry 2, developed by Ubisoft, puts you in the boots of one of nine mercenaries who is dropped 
 off in the middle of war-torn Africa. Your mission, find and eliminate The Jackal. As soon as you 
 arrive the waste hits the fan and you find yourself working for various people in order to gain 
 information and equipment for getting your job done.
  
  Far Cry 2 features an enormous, beautiful, open world. You're free to interact with it however 
 you choose. Use the cover of night to sneak around enemy encampments, or start a large brush fire 
 and watch it spread as the wind blows it toward your enemies. Combined with fantastic audio, Far 
 Cry 2 delivers an amazing experience.
  The Story is pretty solid. It's also very long and can take up to almost 50 hours to complete depending 
 on how you choose to play. You'll earn diamonds through missions and exploration. Diamonds act 
 as Far Cry 2's form of currency and can net you some new weapons throughout the game.
  The A. I. is fantastic, but at times a little wonky. They'll spread out and search for intruders 
 when attacked. Tend to their wounded comrades, for better or for worse. Take cover and hide from 
 sniper fire. They'll even use grenades to scare the player out of suspected hiding places. The 
 A. I. is relentless as they will chase you down in their vehicles and on foot all over Africa.
 
  Far Cry 2 also features a very diverse upgrade and reward system accompanied by a large variety 
 of weapons and vehicles. Weapons and manuals are unlocked by completing convoys for Dealers, and 
 you gain upgrades for your safe house as you complete missions. Your mini map and GPS is easily 
 accessed with the touch of a button. In order to keep the player immersed in the world, your character 
 simply pulls out his map without pausing the game.
  During the course of the game, your weapons will degrade over time. They'll begin to rust and jam, 
 eventually causing them to explode in your hands. This adds a little more tension to firefights 
 and causes the player to think before engaging the enemy.
  
  The multiplayer is very enjoyable. There are four game types and an endless amount of maps due 
 to the map editor. The four game types consist of Deathmatch, Team Deathmatch, Capture the Diamond 
 and Uprising.
  
  Missions however, get a little repetitive. You'll find yourself driving from one spot to another 
 with an objective of killing a target, stealing an item, or blowing things up.
  You do A LOT of traveling. After a while it gets a little tedious as you drive from place to place.
 
  The A. I. at times seems to have amazing accuracy and doesn't miss very much. Snipers don't alert 
 their comrades to your presence when spotted. It also seems that assassination targets have enhanced 
 vision and can often spot you across the map.
  
  But, it's the 50 beautiful square kilometers of exploration that makes the game fun. You are given 
 total freedom over the world and there's tons to do. The amount of choices you can make keeps the 
 game fresh and adds a nice amount of replay-ability to the game. Far Cry 2 is a game that won't 
 disappoint it's audience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mysticchampion
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 3, 2008 6:49 pm PT
Review:  The developers had a great idea with this game and well their ideas lived out and turned out great 
 for the single player, it may get a little repetitive at times but overall the single player is 
 a great experience. The weather effects and overall looks of the game are beautiful some of the 
 best this year.
  
  Now the multiplayer is a BIG letdown. The way that the single player is designed doesn't support 
 a good multiplayer experience at all, and considering the fact that the multiplayer feels exactly 
 the same as single player is bad. Not only that but the respawn time is 20 seconds! I think they 
 were trying to go for something great but they didn't polish it out enough, maybe spending to much 
 time on the map editor than the game play, it seems like they weren't sure which direction to take 
 it or something. It just feels unfinished. 
  
  I can say the map editor is probably the best part of the game but with sub-par game play that 
 doesn't matter.
  
  Overall if you want this game for the map editor and multiplayer rent it first to see if you like 
 the style of multiplayer, If you want it for single player you won't be disappointed 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: defogger
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 30, 2008 6:36 pm PT
Review:  First off, this isn't a real Farcry game. I owned the first one, I beat it and I loved it. It was 
 creepy, intense, satisying and beautiful to look at. Farcry 2 does not measure up to the name though. 
 The only thing similar to the first is the fact that it's first person, but this game feels broken.
 
  
  Your in Africa now, your persueing an arms dealer called The Jackel and you have a strange disease 
 that flares up now and then. The environment is gorgeous, the buying and upgrading is solid and 
 the buddy system is pretty cool too. 
  
  But the problems with the game are this - the weapons look very poor and they are not any fun to 
 use. The only weapon that's really useful is the sniper rifle, which is a well designed weapon 
 and offers serious damage and accuracy. But most importantly, the real flaw in this game is its 
 repetativeness. Get 200+ cases of diamonds, keep blowing up convoys of your weapon dealer's opponents, 
 scout 57 enemy outposts. Numbers numbers numbers, not enough in your face story to keep you focused 
 and interested. Driving feels completely unrealistic and the environment is too big (yes, the game 
 world can be too big) . And lastly we have a voiceless character, something very common and something 
 very boring. 
  
  Ultimatly, this is an average shooter. Fun at first but it becomes boring quick. It really should 
 have followed in the footsteps of the original, with scifi action, above average A. I and visuals 
 that blow away other games. Farcry 2 really falls short of its potential.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: radekjonak
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 30, 2008 5:21 pm PT
Review:  i'll start by saying this is the best fps I have played for years. big call you might say? well 
 here is the reason why? the need to think while playing is a rare occasion, especially in today's 
 fps. It has been implemented to perfection in farcry 2.
  
  Graphics are outstanding, bringing Africa to life in frightening realism. sound is equally fantastic. 
 every gamer that appreciates a good fps should experience this game on whatever console of choice! 
 not forgetting the Pc as well.
  
  having played only 3 hours i still have a lot to discover and explore, but first impressions count! 
 so thanks to the team that worked together FOR 3 YEARS to bring us a strong contender for game 
 of the year.
  
  i am sure ill come across bugs and glitches, as it is true in every game these days, a game should 
 be fun, exciting and worth your time and money, which this game delivers on every aspect. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gabez_R
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 31, 2009 9:36 am PT
Review:  Well Far Cry 2... let me say this This Game is downright Awesome.
  
  The Graphics are some of the best this year. Fire is a great element implemented really well the 
 physics just ROCK and the weapons and buddies are great.
  
  Story: This is where this game falls short. Well the only reason the story sucks is well because 
 we were all expecting a BRILLIANT story. So when we got an OK story it was just to OK.
  
  Graphics: These are probably some of the best graphics I've seen in my life the fire looks great 
 theres hardly any glitches and the blood rocks (the guns also look great) the characters look great 
 and there expressions are very good. Excellent Graphics. (The sounds are just as good!)
  
  Game play: WOW. The physics rock watching your'e enemies just slump or fly in every direction is 
 so satisfying. Watching them burn is a complete other thing though it still rocks my world, gun 
 jamming and Malaria are great features so are the "harrowing" buddy rescues, yanking bullets out 
 of your body is a lot more cool than you think not to mention (POSSIBLE SPOILERS) being able to 
 give your buddy a syrette and heal them or blow out their brains and "mercy" kill them is a great 
 feature. A lot of Gamespotters (like myself) think a shooter is only as good as its guns and boy 
 this game has some awesome guns! they all have a different impression and feel witch is great. 
 some "haters" say the mission are the same thing over and over okay sometimes they are but something 
 always happens differently. 
  
  Bottom line the game just plain rocks if you want a solid FPS just get it its probably one of the 
 best FPS I've ever played. Who knew killing people would so much fun! (why the heck does this game 
 have so many haters?) 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: glyder56
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 30, 2008 3:20 am PT
Review:  From the moment you set foot into the African Jungle to the first time you come over a hill to 
 see a herd of Buffalo grazing in the Savannah you'll realise just how amazing Far Cry 2 is. The 
 sweeping Savannah to the massive Deserts and the thick Jungle, the Urban towns and Dogon villages 
 Far Cry 2's 50k map brings all of Africas Highlights into one place. Far Cry 2 has quite a gripping 
 Story line thought admittedly it is quite short. I felt a little let down after atticipating 100 
 hours gameplay, but don't let this put you off. The Story line missions only take about 14 hours 
 (myself) but there are Buddy missions, Underground Missions, Cellular Tower Missions and Weapon 
 Mission. Then theres the huge map to explore and i think this boosts up gameplay time to 50 or 
 so hours. But there is massive replay value, This game just does not dissappoint and will have 
 you coming back for more with the very addicting online and the VERY simple but well designed map 
 maker. With loads of guns and vehicles to upgrade destroying, shooting and running over things 
 just doesn't get old. Lighting up a grassy area and running around the other side to catch the 
 fleeing enemys is 1 way out of i have no idea how many of killing off enemys. Though my reviews 
 make not much sense or have much structure i assure you this is a must buy game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RLJSlick
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 29, 2008 8:37 pm PT
Review:  I went into this with the idea that it will upgrade to a fun but very arcade style game Far Cry, 
 and when the game first start off, you get an amazing presentation of an Africa country gone awry. 
 The graphics are amazing the sounds and visional are stunning. You are a merc that land in a county 
 in Africa in a middle of a civil war. You are there to find a gun runner.
  You meet some interesting people in the game, you can interact with them but you can't ask them 
 to tag along, or have them do much of anything else. Which is too bad because they seem to have 
 some real deep backgrounds, but all you can do is talk to them at a few safe houses, and they can 
 give you some advice, that's about it.
  The missions are the key to this game, and the problem. Though you have a free reign to go wherever 
 you want in the game, the way it's setup you end up battling the same outpost over and over again. 
 You also find yourself doing a lot of driving back and forth from your safe house to your mission 
 and back again, once again fighting through the same outpost that you have be fighting all game. 
 It gets really tiring really fast. Also because of pretty good AI you have a tough fight ahead 
 of you, mostly because you end up going against the a whole camp or compound pretty much alone, 
 against a pretty well arm force that seem to have remarkable vision, and can see you way before 
 you can see them.
  This is very well done but it really shouldn't be called Far Cry II since it doesn't really resemble 
 the prior game at all. Under its own name I think it would have been fair to brand it a pretty 
 good shooter, but using the Far Cry label give the game a unfair but well known name to use to 
 draw in customers. This game really disappointed me, just because of what it could have been. The 
 missions are pretty lame, and the driving back and forth through outpost over and over again will 
 soon drive you nuts. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: tyskeren
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 29, 2008 5:47 pm PT
Review:  I got Far cry 2 on the release date, and as soon as i got into the game and saw the world in the 
 graphical sense, i just thought "WOW!"
  Then i started playing for real, and i still thought that this was a really great game, of cause 
 this was still in the early stages of the game, and i had only played it like 2 hours or something. 
 Then i started to notice some details MISSING! Not any big details but some small ones, and that 
 kind of annoys me, because they have spend so much time on building this huge, huge world, and 
 then they miss these little but still important details in the game. It just makes the game look 
 a bit half hearted. Like they should have waited just a few more months or so. Now i will describe 
 what i mean by theses little details.
  
  I had been playing for about 6 hours, and i was doing a mission to kill some guy. Now i have this 
 really awesome sniper rifle, and i was counting on hiding up in high grounds and just destroy this 
 camp on a nice hilltop. First of all, apparently this isn't possible, because you can't really 
 get up on any hilltops, because there is a limit to how high you can go. Okay that was the first 
 annoying detail. Then i had to find a good hiding place and i started shooting the bad guys from 
 there. Then two of the guys took a car and was about to drive, so i thought to my self, "now i'm 
 gonna shoot there tires then they will be stuck or perhaps slowed down". But NO! they neither slowed 
 down or got stuck they started driving right towards me with, still with four nice wheels. Then 
 i killed them and took the car, and drove away. Cause now i wanted to test if i just missed or 
 if you just can't destroy tires, and apparently you can't. This was another missing detail. Then 
 i took an AK-47 and fired 30 shots right down into the engine of the car, and all that happened 
 was that the car started smoking. It could still DRIVE! Yet another small detail missed. I could 
 go one with stuff like your not able to blow up sheds and houses (i don't mean safe houses!) and 
 trees! you simply can't destroy a tree. AND THESE THINGS REALLY ANNOYS ME. And the are also the 
 factor causing that i don't give this game more than a 8.5 don't get me wrong it's still a lot 
 of fun to move around in this huge open world (that at the same time is very, very pretty) and 
 doing missions the way you want to. So i encourage you to buy it, cause you will almost certainly 
 have a lot of fun with it. But i just feel that they could have done a better job if they had just 
 paid attention to details. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ewmgreendawg
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 29, 2008 1:35 pm PT
Review:  Farcry 2 is a very down to earth shooter that takes place in a gigantic, gorgeous, yet terribly 
 empty sandbox. Let me start by saying this game is beautiful. It has got to be the best looking 
 360 game i've ever seen. The trees, the grass, the dilapitated shantys, the water, even the zebras 
 are perfect. The objective of farcry 2 is simple, you go around and collect diamonds by doing a 
 lot of cookie cutter missions. These cookie cutter missions range from killing a guy to killing 
 a few guys to blowing up a truck. Pretty basic stuff. These basic missions are amplified by the 
 enviroment and intensity of the combat. It's a very immersive and original feeling to be hiding 
 in the grass, fearing the sound of enemy chatter and vehicles. Your enemies are intelligent and 
 crafy - often taking cover or flanking you in packs. They might even try to run you over with a 
 jeep. While the combat is very fierce some of it can be a little wonky. Like when your completly 
 stealthy and somehow the enemies manage to use x-ray vision to see you through trees and long grass. 
 Even more frustrating is when bullets are hitting you through concrete walls and you can't use 
 anything for cover. Another situation i've encountered was an inbalanced weapon system. How many 
 times should you have to shoot a guy in the head with a shotgun for him to die? If you answered 
 6 then you'd be right if you lived in the farcry dimension. Between missions you'll have the excitment 
 and also dread of walking around the enormous map of farcry. This is arguably the best and worst 
 part of the game. The map is huge, i'm talking oblivion huge. But in oblivion there are things 
 to do while your running around. In farcry you spend a long time walking around trais with nothing 
 to do but look at zebras. Even though the game is really beautiful it feels extremly hollow. Sometimes 
 this vast world combined with random enemy encounters and unreliable weapons creates a great feeling 
 of survival and desperation but most of the time it's just annoying. You'll find yourself playing 
 farcry for around 50 hours but sadly 15-20 of these hours will be spent walking/driving from place 
 to place. The map editor and multiplayer are the strongest selling point of farcry and they give 
 it it's true replay value. If you can deal with a decent shooter that has a lot of down time i 
 can recommend farcry for you but a lot of people won't have the patience to spend as much time 
 traveling as playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Paintballa
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 29, 2008 10:57 am PT
Review:  This game was just not satisfying enough. I believe the multiplayer is where this game will survive 
 but it's just not anything new. The game is sluggish most parts in multiplayer. If u have played 
 COD4 and Gears2, or even Battlefield Bad Company u will notice a difference in controls and weapons. 
 It just doesn't have what it takes. The maps were cool and the graphics were nice but nothing new 
 again. I will wait for the others to get here. (COD: WAW, ENDWAR, Gears 2) Now those few games will 
 have this holiday season in a up roar. Great Multiplayer and great control schemes. It's missing 
 the character creation that alot of games have like Vegas 2 or COD4. I know this game is not liket 
 them but when u try to make a game to appeal to the FPS crowd u have to implement something that 
 people will recognize and want to keep playing for. Unreal3 and those games of course are nothing 
 like the pre mentioned games but they are basically a shooter and that's it. Nothing special. I 
 believe u have to set yourself apart from the others by doing something special. This game didn't. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gowron24
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 29, 2008 5:23 am PT
Review:  Farcry 2 looks amazing but the gameplay in general lets the game down and May make you throw your 
 controller in disgust.
  
  Graphics: Amazing utterly amazing are the graphcs on far cry 2, From the nice waterholes to rivers 
 and lakes. the water effects are amazing, even from the sun coming through the trees at sunrise 
 which can make you look away at the glare. The trees and grass and moutain side look real nice 
 as well, and the fire effects are amazing you light the grass on fire and the fire will spread 
 depending on which direction the wind is blowing.
  The Buildings look very nice and well textured one could say reptative, but it goes well and what 
 do you expect from poverty stricken afrika??
  the charcter models generally look good but up close there just something not quite right. might 
 be the slight blockiness in there bodys structure you can make out.
  
  Gameplay: This is where the let down starts to creep in. Sure the firefights are fun and sometimes 
 almost epic as bullets are coming from every direction. But thats the problem the enemy will flank 
 you which is a good thing but can be a bad because while they flank you. you just move away and 
 they all rush to where you were and its does that over and over and over. And on the topic of firefights 
 the damage these guys can take is amazing you can snipe of these bald dudes with a sniper rifle 
 and you will see his head fling back and blood come out, yet there he is standing and shooting 
 at you ive even unloaded a clip of a machine gun in one and they were still standing, it registers 
 a hit so I think the devs need to release a patch lowering there HP a bit, and because of this 
 insane will to live that the bad guys have can make this game real hard, when you have 4 dudes 
 shooting you and your health is dropping real quick, and your shooting one and there shrugging 
 the bullets off like you were thowring pebbles, generally means youll be dying and restarting a 
 mission a lot.
  And then what i hate the most is that your char has malaria. and every 40-50 mins you have to take 
 a tablet and if you run out you better drive your sick bum to the church and get some more. You 
 have to do a mission though, I just fill this is a way to make the player rush things in stead 
 of just taking there time and exploring like some of us do.
  But on a plus the game can still be quite fun to play like i said the firefights are quite good, 
 just predictable.
  and driving around is awesome and the exploration is truly a thing of wonder in this massive world
 
  
  Multiplayer: I've not had much of a chance to try out the live part of it yet really, but from what 
 I have seen its a mix of your usual DM, TDM, and CTF or in this case CTD=Capture the diamond. As 
 you play you get xp which can unlock new weapons for 1 of 6 or so preset classes which can only 
 use certain weapons. It seems to be quite fun thought and not to much lag.
  
  Sound: THe sound in this is good, the bullets whizzing through the air, or as you fire the hell 
 out of your machine gun the sound of it is qite thunderous especially the machine gun turrets on 
 cars on pillboxes.
  I dont have any sound system just my TV speakers and it sounds real nice. although all the cars 
 sound the same, a but of mix in that would have been nice.
  
  Overall: Overall the game is nice to play, get rid of the iron made Hostiles, cars identical to 
 what your driving catching up to you as if they were supercharged and you were in a 4 cyl. And 
 please for the love of god add a save anywhere feature.
  THe game is quite fun to play and explore and if you like to pit your self as the game hero and 
 pretends its you in there. You can have some fun.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: raptortank4
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 29, 2008 1:13 am PT
Review:  Graphics:
  
  The graphics would more than likely put this game up in the top five games with the best graphics 
 on the 360. They're definitely amazing and it's hard to believe they did such an outstanding job 
 with the quality for the console. Unfortunately, the amazing looks doesn't make up for some of 
 the issues I have with Farcry 2 personally.
  
  
  Sound:
  
  The sound is not amazing and not bad. The game found suiting music for the situations brought upon 
 you, weapon fire, weather, and even driving in the dirt. Definitely nothing the game fell short 
 on here.
  
  
  Combat:
  
  The combat is challenging, which makes the gameplay very interesting and aligned with what the 
 developers promised. You're going to need to improvise a lot, just like they said, with what you've 
 got on your person at the time. Unlike other players, the AI is not entirely stupid as they say. 
 The AI works together in groups and is appropriately responsive to your actions. However, it can 
 be very easy to die at times, especially when your improvised plan of action backfires harshly, 
 which leads to one of my major gripes about the game - which I'll get to next.
  
  My biggest problems with the game are:
  
  - Giant World (a pro) , yet almost nothing fills it 
 other than the African landscape. The view will get boring fast.
  
  - It's semi open world, not like they promised. You're going to be limited to taking paths in certain 
 areas that'll take you through any number of hostile checkpoints where you'll have to fight a handful 
 of soldiers. Awkward natural vegetation will get in the way of taking alternate routes other than 
 the road and large, unavoidable hills or mountains will force you in a specific area.
  
  - The long drives. You're going to be forced to drive here and there for objectives that will sometimes 
 only take you less than a minute to complete and then to immediately go somewhere else much further 
 away. The drives aren't bad at first, but they become boring and tedious quickly because of the 
 numerous enemy checkpoints, lack of activity within the landscape, and the limited routes you can 
 take.
  
  Along with the long, boring drives comes a risk. The enemy checkpoints. During the fight you may 
 lose your vehicle. In that case, you're going to have to walk to your objective where, chances 
 are, there isn't another vehicle nearby. Walking will take MUCH longer in this massive landscape. 
 Since combat is difficult and puts a lot of risk into improvision, you're also putting a lot of 
 risk on having to drive all the way back from your last save point to your objective... YET AGAIN.
 
  
  
  Personally, this game was vastly disappointing - but not a total trash heap of a game. I've tried 
 to make myself like the game, but I can't get over what I stated above - it just ruins the game 
 for me. It could've been much more. However, I'm glad many others are joining it. 
  
  This game did teach me something that I thought was already a rule for myself. And that is to always 
 rent the game first, no matter how good the previews look.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: sensei_hEnRY
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 28, 2008 7:28 pm PT
Review:  welcome to Africa version of Farcry 2, a place where you can be shoot anytime and anywhere.
  
  Farcry 2 come with outstandingly new way to play an FPS game. It's like combining assassin's 
 creed or GTA IV with Call of Duty 4. It's just a great achievement from Ubisoft Montreal.
  
  The Story, Farcry 2 put you in an unknown country crumbled from inside by great civil war on 
 Africa. There are 2 fractions that join the war and one person that supply all the weaponry. Our 
 objective is simple, to kill the Jackal, the one who responsible for every single bullet and weapon 
 on that country. To accomplish that objective, you need to join the war by working for everybody 
 while collecting evidences and clues to find the Jackal. Nice story, but, like gamespot said in 
 their review, every people in Farcry 2's world always talk in a rush so it pretty difficult to 
 follow the story. Good thing is the game have subtitle (one thing that never exist on previous 
 Ubisoft Montreal game) .
  
  The gameplay, this game gives you free choises about how you gonna finish the game or complete 
 a mission given to you. You can work to every fraction or person in this game, of course everyone 
 of them have their own hidden agenda. The freedom to finish the game anyway we want is amazing, 
 you can set the time of assault, night or daylight, you can choose, either explore the environment 
 first to look for supplies and snipers or just jump in to the action and finish your thing with 
 brutal firefight. The reality of social relationship on this game is amazing, when you choose to 
 do a mission from one fraction, you wouldn't be welcome to another fraction until you betray the 
 first fraction. Relation with your friend can be difficult too. If you denied the mission given 
 by them, the history will decrease and they won't help you in battle. One thing that really surprised 
 me is the health regenation system. there are 5 blocks of health you have on your body, you can 
 full it up by injecting a syrette (or something like that) to your body. But, when one block is 
 decrease but not empty, it will regenerate itself. When you only have one block, you need to stabilized 
 your health first before injecting the syrette. If you have a friend, you won't die when your health 
 is empty, your friend will help you, carry you away from the fire fight then heal you. The problem 
 with that is your friend is not a good fighter and they easily wounded. We can help them if we 
 have syrette, we can also shoot them to death or just leave them. When a friend is death, you'll 
 lost him/her forever. You also have problems with weapon and malaria. You need to buy a new weapon 
 because used gun usually jammed! The problem is, every new gun you buy will jammed too after one 
 or two missions (that's happen to me with that stupid G3) so you need to come to the weapon store 
 often to change your weapon with the new one or go to your safehouse to get your stored weapon 
 on it (to do thid you need to buy a special crate) . Great thing is we only have to buy once for 
 every kind of weapon and that weapon will available on the warehouse next to the weapon store. 
 The game can be difficult because of the terrain, i hate fighting on the forest, the enemy AI can 
 hide and shoot very well. There are other side mission too, especially to get malaria medicine 
 or new kind of weapon. or, you can explore the country looking for diamond, but beware for robbers 
 and guard post, they always shoot without any warning or any reason, it's annoying!
  
  The Graphics, Farcry 2 with Dunia Engine is amazing! the lighting effect is amazing! The country 
 is pretty big and we can go anywhere anytime without any loading. That is great but it can be boring 
 just watch yellow environment everytime. I like the interaction of our character with the environment, 
 when you open the door, fixing a car, entering a car, driving a car, moving from mounted weapon 
 on car or picking items (this is the first time i see a hand picking up weapon or health kit on 
 FPS game) . Too bad we still can't see our legs and body when walking.
  
  So, as the result, buy this game! its outstanding. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sethbouldin
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 29, 2008 11:12 am PT
Review:  Riding down a dusty road, clear skies let me see to the corners of the earth and a warm, orange 
 glow flows over the landscape and fills my body.
  
  That's the imagery you get when Far Cry 2 starts unfolding on your TV. The graphics in this game 
 are superb; near perfection, if not perfection for this generation. Just looking at the water can 
 trick your eyes into thinking they're watching a movie. 
  
  Graphics
  
  Well, I'll leave you with that imagery and the screenshots around the web: 10/10
  
  
  Gameplay
 
  
  Difficulty:
  
  I'm going to be blunt: this game is difficult. That's not a bad thing, in my opinion. You do have 
 a fantastic health recovery system and your Buddies will save you a lot of the time. Those elements 
 do ease the sting of the initial hour (s) . Not too long into the game, however, you get quite comfortable 
 with the feel of the game.
  I'll address the "the enemies are too hard to kill!" issue right here: SO ARE YOU! I don't hear 
 anyone complaining that your character can take plenty of lead to the chest. The enemies are just 
 as tough as you, and this "issue" is not hard to deal with. You're smarter than their A. I.: 9/10
 
  
  Innovations:
  
  I'm sure you've all seen the videos of fire propagation, "shoot the tree and the limbs fall off" 
 videos and other things like that. All the little things like that really immerse you into this 
 game. I remember the first group I assaulted had a turret gun, I was behind a tree on a hill and 
 they shot at me through the tree and the limbs were falling off everywhere. It's all just really 
 beautiful. Sneaking in the shadows works great in this game as well. Just a great attention to 
 detail: 10/10
  
  Flaws:
  
  It's cliche, but I'll say it anyways "this game is not without its flaws". The driving is really 
 hard to get use to. I don't understand why people will just shoot at me when I'm driving past them 
 (maybe something just hasn't clicked for me on that subject) . The flaws are few and nit-picky but 
 this game is over-all very, very pleasing.
  Though, I do still wonder why I can shoot down a branch with a pistol but I cant chop it down with 
 my machete.
  
  
  Multiplayer
  
  
  Online:
  I love the mulitplayer in this game. It takes some getting use to (like everything else in this 
 game. It's very reminiscent of Counter Strike. 10/10
  
  Map Editor:
  This thing is fantastic, the level of detail you can throw into this thing is incredible. The only 
 problem is that the way the menu is laid out is kind of confusing and sort of a pain to deal with. 
 Being able to download other people's maps is really interesting too, I've seen some really creative 
 ones: 8.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spada92
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 28, 2008 10:47 am PT
Review:  i was extremely excited for this game to come out. when i finally got it i was so happy, then i 
 started playing it. ill admit it, in the beginning i though "what the hell?". i thought it was 
 a complete disappointment. so i stopped playing that day. then the next day i gave it another try. 
 i actually really started to like it and stopped thinking it was a disappointment. the game grows 
 on you. once you get used to the controls and start taking different approaches to missions, and 
 using elements like fire and shooting ammo piles so they blow up a near by enemy, you realize that 
 it is actually awesome. the AI can be pretty stupid, but at the same time they are really aggressive. 
 now i love COD 4, and i still think it is the best multiplayer shooter out there. but in COD 4, 
 once you really know the maps, you know that there will be a sniper here, a claymore there etc. 
 but in Far Cry 2, the multiplayer is completely different, the weather can change, which completely 
 changes the gameplay. you look for that sniper that usually is there, then rain starts falling 
 and makes it foggy so you cant see that far, or it puts out fire. plus there is a map editor, which 
 is awesome. bottomline, this game is really fun, try to play more than once, youll get into it. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xraystar
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 28, 2008 9:10 am PT
Review:  in dwanewil's review he said:
  
  1. I realize ubi wanted to make the game more realistic, resulting in removing the real-time account 
 of enemies like the first title (Red dots on the map) . This game is so, "brown"! I get it, Africa 
 is dry for the most part, but it would be nice to have some green... maybe the green will come later 
 in the game. I am sure Africa has jungles
  
  A. this game is so brown? what tv set are you playing on? Yes, there are jungles in this game, 
 plenty. They're green, too. Not to mention the orange glow of sunrise and sunset, and nice blue 
 hues of the rivers during mid day. 
  
  2. The lack of input from where the attack is coming from is VERY frustrating. When the enemy AI 
 starts shooting at my character, I have very little chance to figure out where the shots are coming 
 from! The screen fogs up, the red area that is supposed to help me spot where the gun fire is coming 
 is almost useless. It flashes briefly, but because of the, "fog" I find myself having little chance 
 to get my bearing. I would be willing to accept this, but (I am playing the game on normal now. 
 I started the game on the harder level) when it takes 20 bullets to drop the enemy while shooting 
 him in the head, along with the vague input, I 
  find myself not enjoying the experience very much at all.
  
  A. Actually, the damage indicator 
 is implemented well enough. Never have I had to get my bearings straight and try to figure out 
 where the shot is coming from. Pretty straight forward stuff. Besides, even with stereo sound, 
 you can distinguish from which side its coming from. 
  
  3. The lack of save points! I am sure this was implemented in order to extend gameplay. But because 
 of everything I mentioned above, it is just another gripe.
  
  A. Agreed, but it's nothing that takes away from the gameplay. Just save often. 
  
  4. The 
 diamond finder.... OMG! Again, WTF?! Hey ubi, you want me to "watch" the stupid light flash with 
 the map filling almost the whole screen while I try to figure out whether the light is flashing 
 faster. Is it too much to ask to have an audio cue?
  
  A. You do realize, if you're pointed in the right direction, the light will remain steady?
  
 
  Spending nearly 20 hours on this game, though not without its flaws, Far Cry 2 proves to be an 
 deeply engaging shooter sporting stellar graphics and intense action. Definitely worth a least 
 a try for die hard FPS fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xelalex24
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 28, 2008 9:02 am PT
Review:  The beauty of Far Cry 2 that you really have to think before approaching your enemies, and that 
 begins making a game a bit more interesting than your usual "Gun Blazing" approach. In fact, there 
 is so much pleasure making the AI freak out because your plan attack involves some well placed 
 IDEs.
  
  Graphics:
  The graphics are really good in this game. They may not be the BEST but definitely are above average.
 
  
  Sound:
  The family was finally gone, and with the kids and wife out of the house I turned up my surround 
 system. The battles were immersive and the quite African night made me think I should make sure 
 I don't have something crawling up my leg.
  
  Gameplay:
  The gameplay for this game is going to be a hit or miss for some people. If you enjoy the open 
 world genre where going to point A to point B does require effort, not only traveling but getting 
 there alive than this game will satisfy you. However, if you like to get to the point of the objective, 
 than this game will surely frustrate you.
  
  I do miss the old Far Cry way of scouting a camp, and then each enemy would be in your radar. This 
 game takes a more realistic approach where you can only scout fixed points, like a sniper, ammunition, 
 fixed machine gun, etc. While the realistic part can be welcomed at times, at other times it really 
 gets frustrated as someone sneaks behind you.
  
  The AI is interesting because in one way, they approach you very realistically, and they interact 
 to the situation while well. For example, on one mission I just cause so much havoc that the last 
 guy ran to his car and just disappeared down the road. The cool think is that what he did was to 
 park his car behind this big rock, come back out and come after me. Too bad for him I was looking 
 that way with my launcher.
  
  On the bad side of the gameplay is that it takes a lot of bullets to drop someone. While the shot 
 in the head takes them out right away, in the chest, it feels like you need 15 to 20 bullets to 
 kill them. Since you really can't carry as much fire weapon, that can get annoying. 
  
  The AI animation is also a little on the week side. They seem like the hover instead of walking 
 or running. It could be improved, but in the overall scheme who cares.
  
  The sneak attack doesn't work as well as I would like. I went up on a sniper platform, and sneaked 
 behind him, and took him out. However, all of the sudden the whole town seemed to be aware of my 
 actions and came after me. That seemed weird since I was so far off. Maybe doing the same thing 
 at night in a camo suit would eliminate that.
  
  Conclusion
  The game is really enjoyable and worth the money in my opinion. The open world just adds a level 
 of freedom that expands on the original Far Cry. I really recommend this game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: iverson -- 76ers
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 28, 2008 12:41 am PT
Review:  Amazing idea Awesome and i cant believe gamespot gave it 8.5 where they gave a silly game such 
 Def Jam Icon 8.1 that makes you wonder what did def jam have to make it an 8.1 title.
  
  People who are complaining about the traveling long distances andNo Red dots on the mapto 
 identify the enemy. Watch the Developers interviews!
  
  The Game is supposed as realistic as possible. Making a unique game out there.
  
  50Km2 of 
 high detailed rendering terrain from African savanna's jungles mountains and more that's Impressive.
 
  
  The voice acting is being done beautifully the accents is done correctly for the several African 
 languages in the game. 
  
  The A. I in the game are pretty smart they flank you, take cover when there injured.
  
  For 
 who say the game is too repetitive YOUR MERCENARY YOU KILL PEOPLE FOR LIVING!.
  
  Gamespot review the Bad "Traveling for long stretches can become tedious. If you are going to 
 kill a dude in real life you gonna open a portal to reach your destination?
  
  I wasn't an FPS fan myself but this game changed my prospective more than The COD and HALO series.
 
  
  Bottom Line: The game worth every single dime. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dwanewil
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jan 25, 2009 12:41 am PT
Review:  Okay, I am sure I will be in the minority when it comes to my impression of Far Cry 2. This game 
 should not be a continuing, "chapter" in the series. It has a totally different feel from the original 
 game. Personally, I enjoyed every aspect of the original title. The game was just fun. Maybe I 
 am just lame gamer, but having played fc2 for over 6 hours, I find myself VERY frustrated more 
 than I care to mention. Here are my issues
  
  1. I realize ubi wanted to make the game more realistic, resulting in removing the real-time account 
 of enemies like the first title (Red dots on the map) . This game is so, "brown"! I get it, Africa 
 is dry for the most part, but it would be nice to have some green... maybe the green will come later 
 in the game. I am sure Africa has jungles
  
  2. The lack of input from where the attack is coming from is VERY frustrating. When the enemy AI 
 starts shooting at my character, I have very little chance to figure out where the shots are coming 
 from! The screen fogs up, the red area that is supposed to help me spot where the gun fire is coming 
 is almost useless. It flashes briefly, but because of the, "fog" I find myself having little chance 
 to get my bearing. I would be willing to accept this, but (I am playing the game on normal now. 
 I started the game on the harder level) when it takes 20 bullets to drop the enemy while shooting 
 him in the head, along with the vague input, I 
  find myself not enjoying the experience very much at all.
  
  3. The lack of save points! I 
 am sure this was implemented in order to extend gameplay. But because of everything I mentioned 
 above, it is just another gripe. 
  
  4. The diamond finder.... OMG! Again, WTF?! Hey ubi, you want me to "watch" the stupid light flash 
 with the map filling almost the whole screen while I try to figure out whether the light is flashing 
 faster. Is it too much to ask to have an audio cue?
  
  I will continue to play this game only because I really hope that it will get better. If this game 
 was not to be another chapter in the series, I would probably be not be so hard on the title. This 
 game is not 
  
  Far Cry to me. I am saying this having not played the game all the way through. Maybe I will change 
 my opinion if I continue 
  
  playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kenken2g
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 27, 2008 7:29 pm PT
Review:  Ok far cry 2 is finally out and the wait is over. I read several reviews before making my purchase, 
 but it seemed like this game was getting soooo many MIXED reviews I didn't know what to think. 
 So I just went ahead and took a leap of faith. Here's my thoughts.
  
  First off this game is a mix or blend of, S. T. A. L. K. E. R. (RPG open world element while being a 
 shooter) , Assassin's Creed (collecting hidden items) , Battlefield (free roaming world) , COD (run 
 n gun) , Resistance (health regeneration in separated health bars) , and of course Grand Theft Auto 
 (do what ever you want) . When I first got the game I was so excited while opening the box I was 
 like holy **** this game is finally out whoo hoo. After playing it for like 3 hours straight I 
 found myself with a sad face like... ooooook? Drive, shoot, drive, shoot, drive, shoot, drive, 
 shoot.... wash rinse and repeat. BUT BUT BUT BUT BUT.... after a couple of days... things started 
 making a turn for the better. Here's why...
  
  I realized that I started playing shooters a lil differently. I started to concentrate on throwing 
 nades in the jeeps as they would pass by (he he he) , getting more head shots, trying to unlock 
 things that are hidden, unlocking all the weapons, and playing two games at once with two different 
 characters and two different play styles. This game is awesome no doubt but it has to grow on you. 
 If you just play it like a drive and shoot game.... IT WILL BE A DRIVE AND SHOOT GAME. If you really 
 try to think, unlock stuff, use different weapon set ups, do any and every mission, scout areas 
 before storming in, keeping your allies alive, do some missions at night daytime and rain or on 
 the river.... THINGS GET PRETTY INTERESTING!!! Try it... try it... try it... don't listen to the 
 nay sayers. If you like any of the games I compared this game to... you will like this game... 
 or grow to like it ;) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Onelinedrawing
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 27, 2008 6:42 pm PT
Review:  When Far Cry came out for the PC way back when, its open ended gameplay was hailed as unique among 
 first person shooters of it's time. A few years later, Far Cry reinvented itself on the Xbox with 
 Instincts, a fresh twist to the same story. This time around, Far Cry not only gets a pinch of 
 malaria, but a new setting, and a format ripped straight from the Mercenaries franchise.
  
  You play as a foreign contractor sent into an unnamed African country with a collapsed government, 
 amidst a civil war. Your mission is to kill The Jackal, an arms dealer supplying both sides with 
 weapons, profiting from the growing conflict.
  
  Minutes after you land, you contract malaria and black out. You then come face to face with The 
 Jackal, while lying semi-conscious on the floor of a filthy hotel. For whatever reason, he lets 
 you live, and you find yourself square in the middle of the fight, while tracking down the Jackal 
 and gathering the medicine you desperately need.
  
  If any of that sounds intriguing, then it's my fault. The story is by far the weakest part of Far 
 Cry 2, and can, for the most part, be ignored. What matters is you're forced to work for anyone 
 and everyone in order to accomplish your original task.
  
  It's in this that Far Cry 2 leaves its familiar format behind and goes with a mission based system 
 as seen in games like Mercenaries and Grand Theft Auto. They system actually works really well 
 in terms of expanding open ended gameplay. By taking out the "point A to point B" objectives from 
 the previous games, you're left with a sandbox where you can go about things the way you want.
 
  
  In the dangerous world of Far Cry 2, you can get killed just by driving down the road. This makes 
 some mission tedious, since you're basically fighting your way from the mission start, to the objective. 
 So when you die, (and yes, you will die many-a-time) you'll have to run the gauntlet yet again, 
 unless of course you make a pit stop to save. Once you do manage to get on scene, you're objectives 
 will rarely amount to more then the worn-out "go here, kill that" routine. But perhaps anything 
 more might be too much to ask from a shooter. 
  
  The combat is where the game really gets its chance to shine. The same situation can be approached 
 in any number of ways, without any of them feeling forced or unnatural. You can pick off bad guys 
 at distance, dive in face first, take them out quietly, or anything else you feel might work. There's 
 nothing new about that kind of gameplay, but the sheer intensity of the fight makes it stand out 
 from the rest. The first time you find yourself ambushed by multiple vehicles and soldiers, you'll 
 know right away you're in for a gritty, edge of your seat gunfight you might not make it out of.
 
  
  Far Cry 2 is defiantly one hell of a beauty. The jungle scenery looks second to only Crysis, which 
 is to say it's currently one of the best an Xbox 360 can run. Sunlight shining through the tree 
 canopies and the signature African sunrise along the desert really make you connect with the setting. 
 Unfortunately, the game's explosions don't seem to be visually on par with its graphics or combat. 
 Another predominant quality of Mercenaries they probably should have adopted. 
  
  While the sound of gunfire, explosions, and roaring engines might add tremendous amounts of suspense 
 to game, they don't compare to the atmospheric sounds of the environment. Riding a shanty boat 
 down a still river at night while hearing the subtle sounds of wildlife all around you puts you 
 deeper into the setting then any game to date. Whether it be in the desert, in the jungle, beside 
 a brushfire, or in the rain, the sounds of Africa are truly consuming if you take the time to listen 
 Provided you don't get killed in the meantime. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: RobsonGamer
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 27, 2008 4:53 pm PT
Review:  This game is amazing, the gameplayer, the graphics, the AI's all the good stuff pack in a great 
 game. I personaly cant stop playing this game, I mean in Africa? its the best place for a war game 
 :D I love how the buddies can die at any moment like normal AI's and you cannot really die because 
 the buddies would come and help you up and heal you and hand you there side-arm.
  remeber my words, watch your buddies backs! if you dont the game wont end or nothing but it helps 
 to not DIE! and the effects of healing yourself with out the syring, and using your with hands 
 and fingers to put something back in place or maybe take out a peice of shrap metal. so i think 
 this game is a perfect 1st person shooter war game. BUT THE BEST PART is when you get to use Map 
 Editor, omg. its the funest, i like to start off with making two moutains really high but falt 
 on top, right then putting a bridge between both moutains. then start to put outposts, watch towers, 
 houses, ficilities and that sort on eatch moutain then a river/lake underneith the bridge and moutains. 
 so thats what i think about Far Cry 2. I suggest. YOU GET IT! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pycho22solid
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 27, 2008 3:49 pm PT
Review:  Far Cry2 is everything a sequel should be. Ironically, it's a completely different game than the 
 original FarCry. The setting is changed, there are several new elements to the gameplay, and there's 
 a completely new cast of characters.
  
  You begin FarCry by choosing your character from a cast of mercenaries (you can't customize them, 
 but it's all good) and are sent to Africa. Unfortunately you contract Mallaria and your job doesen't 
 go as planned. Your soon stuck doing jobs inbetween a civil war-and then the fun starts.
  
  You're free to go anywhere and choose missions as you like. The map is HUGE (maybe even too big 
 at times) and from the beggining multiple missions are available. There are assassinations, smuggle 
 runs, bloing up trains and even more. There are even multiple paths for some missions. Or maybe 
 you don't like missions? Maybe you like searching for diamonds or safehouses, which you are totally 
 free to do!
  
  Multiplayer is fun and simple. A party system would be nice but the servers work fine.
  
  And 
 to top the icing on the cake is a fantastic map maker. Your maps can look and be even better than 
 the ones created by Ubisoft even!!
  
  Overall Farcry2 is worth a look, wheter or not you're in to shooters 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mikees1
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 27, 2008 2:13 pm PT
Review:  Absolutly stunning gameplay, gorgeous game world, excelent sound a briliant game in all departments. 
 I cant find a single thing wrong with it and in my book this is game of the year easily, nothing 
 else comes close! Im not going to give a full review until iv completed but so far it is visualy 
 stunning and has got me hooked big time. If you dont like this game and give poor reviews then 
 it is pure and simply a case of you not being intelectualy up to playing it ie running in one direction 
 with enemies poping out constantly call of duty style, dont worry tho your brainless shooter is 
 just round the corner, farcry is not that sort of game. It takes a degree of inteligence to play, plan 
 and plot your way to success in this game. Bundled in with a brilliant single player campaign is 
 a brilliant multi player and the ability to get more from the game by throwing in a map editor, what 
 more can you ask for. THIS IS GAME OF THE YEAR!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dmiisha_796
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 27, 2008 4:50 am PT
Review:  This game has its ups and some downs. But i don't know why i'm giving it a relatively low score.
 
  
  All the hype that fueled the game's pre-release got me fired up to buy this game. When i did and 
 started playing the game, i knew at the first few stages that this game was going to be awesome. 
 And then towards the end, i was bewildered.
  
  Ubisoft could have done so much more with the rich African landscapes. The story could have been 
 squeezed for some more content because i feel that so much more could have been done with it.
 
  
  But first and formost, 50 square kilometres of African landscaped fully rendered with the game 
 keeping up a 60 frames per second rate on a PC, a definite plus that will make all the minuses 
 look like dwarfs.
  
  And it does, after seeing what can be compacted onto on disc, you really don't want to find anything 
 that is wrong with the game. And the map editor on the console version really makes the process 
 of finding something wrong with this game quite plainly, difficult.
  
  But then again, this game doen't do everything right. The only error that i can put into words 
 is, the poor voice acting. Not to say that its garbage, but its not the best you'll ever see/hear. 
 The lines seem so rushed and you can get a dose of that from GameSpot's video review of the game. 
 But inspite of those errors that i can't quite put into words (exept one) , i have rated this game 
 as, definite must have.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: bielzabob
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 27, 2008 3:15 am PT
Review:  i was so excited when i got this, put it in the xbox and was almost instantly disappointed. after 
 the years of effort ubisoft have put into this, it seems to me that they rushed the speech into 
 the last 40minutes. every... single... person. sounds like an uninterested robot that has never 
 heard of commas or full stops. they just run off the schpeel like the actors were dragged in off 
 the streets.
  on top of that i find it impossible to connect to my character, he doesn't speak at all, that was 
 the best part of Far Cry, the sarcastic wit of someone that's lost everything. I'm not saying change 
 is wrong but i feel that they have digressed on this.
  on the plus side though this is without a doubt the most beautiful game i have ever played, the 
 diversity of the landscape and the thought they have put into the small things almost makes me 
 understand why they forgot to improve on other points, because they where having too much fun with 
 this element.
  
  all i can say is please someone tell me they are making a patch to solve the painfully bad acting. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BladeWolf12
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 27, 2008 2:59 am PT
Review:  Far Cry 2 is a great game. The graphics are amazing the weapons feel deadly and the flamethrower 
 is the best weapon i've ever used. But two things make me sad about this game. 1. Not very many 
 built up areas : (
  2. The only way to touch the sky is in a hanglider : ( This game is great, but it feels empty soimetimes. 
 I mean yes its a fun game, but it feels like its missing that tiny bit more.
  
  The map editor is simple to use and has so much potential. Its also fun for just making random 
 piles of barrels and setting fire to them :)
  
  Multiplayer is great, there are already dozens of custom maps made, some people are obviously very 
 talented, but there is the problem of too many maps being made, so all the good one gets sunk under 
 a pile of maps that arrange barrels to look like a penis. Come on, how old are some of you?
  
  Overall, Far Cry 2 is a great game, but it feels to me ever so slightly unfinished. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: suicidaldys
Rating: 6
Date: Oct 27, 2008 2:18 am PT
Review:  Ye the game is amazing the graphix look cool the sound is great but to say its a new FPS its only 
 the map editor that makes it different from any other. For example compare it to COD4 its got nothing 
 really the movement feels really restricted as in COD its just so freely. You can unload a full 
 clip into someone and nothing happens they turn round, couple of shots your dead theres just no 
 consistancy about the game. 
  I do reckon with a couple of fixes this could easily be the game of the year but for now I find 
 myself getting bored pretty quick. This is all based on multiplayer as iv only played about 10mins 
 of the single which i did find pretty cool and different from other games with the free roaming. 
 Will I find myself playing 6months down the line like im still playing COD and Halo? NOPE! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: legacywolf
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 26, 2008 11:56 pm PT
Review:  First and for most, Far Cry 2 has fantastic visuals. Just moving around in an African landscape 
 just gives you a feel of what's it like to be in a war torn country. However, Far Cry 2 can be 
 frustrating at times. The jamming of weapons and the long distance travelling just gets on my nerves. 
 I am stressing on the jamming of weapons because if you pick up enemy weapons, it will most likely 
 jam after 5 shots and that is just retarded. The long distance travelling actually makes the game 
 pretty boring. You go on missions get the objective completed and head back. Its really a let down. 
 This is game is really overrated. OK now for the positive side, the gunfights and enemy reactions 
 are really realistic, but a little bit too realistic. The bush fires in the game also takes gameplay 
 to the next level, but the wind direction really spoils the mechanism. THerefore i rate this overrated 
 and troublesome game a 7.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: conartjumper
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 26, 2008 10:55 pm PT
Review:  Far Cry 2 started off by giving me a mission - kill the Jackal. It proceeded to give me a disease, 
 enemies that are hard to see, and a very low supply of ammo. And.. I ... LOVE IT. I play COD and 
 RB6v - after playing Far Cry, I realize how spoiled I've become. Night/thermo vision are non-existent 
 - it's you, maybe some fire, and a bunch of merchs with guns. 
  
  Sounds great right? Yes and no. Like I said, even looking around gets you killed, you can't go 
 a mile without running into an outpost or camp filled with shoot-first-ask-later killers. It's 
 a lot of fun to kill them off and raid their stuff - but it's even more fun to blow up their ammo 
 depot!
  
  The one glaring machete to my skull is the fact that enemies are hard to see. I'll find myself 
 being shot at (not hit mind you) from some unknown direction. I wait for a minute to see if they 
 run up on me - they don't - so I step out from cover and let myself get hit... just to figure out 
 where the guy is. 
  
  Great game, highly recommended - especially for those who have played FPS's and that would like 
 a new challenge with a large number of people to kill. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rob_Job
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 26, 2008 10:06 pm PT
Review:  If you wish to agree or argue with this review or any others add me XBL Gamer Tag: H311 Rais3r 
 PSN ID: Lust_Razor
  I am tired of people not reviewing games properly...
  
  Graphics - 9/10
  Gameplay - 9/10
  Story - 7/10
  Replayability - 9/10
  and so on...
  
 
  TO start off, the good. There are an immense amount of guns in the game, around 30. People are 
 complaining that it takes soo many bullets to kill one person HOWEVER this is not true. It only 
 takes about 3-8 depending on where they are shot. THe guns found on the ground are INNACURATE because 
 they are old and worn, thats why the gun shop is there. Those are more accurate and dont jam. Anyway 
 the guns feel powerful and are easy to use despite these bashers rying to FIND reasons to hate 
 a game. THe world looks beautiful and is fun just to drive around in and run over a zebra or 2. 
 THe story is interesting when you get past the mediocre voice acting but then again what more can 
 u do with a story in this setting? Mercinary sent to kill an arms dealer? What you want more mutants? 
 Far Cry and Far Cry 2 are alike they both FEEL the same and are about surviving. THe fire is fun 
 to use and can be used for strategic assaults or defence. Health system is fun and changes how 
 you need to play at times. Buddy system is great and allows more choice during missions and more 
 fun if you wish to stab them in the back. The Dunia engine is amazing (Real time weather and 24 
 hour clock) . Either way it is a fun game and NOT repetative if you play it right. How do you do 
 this? Well instead of going through the outposts go around, throw a molotove to kill everyone, 
 set of an ammo dump... just kill everyone different ways. 
  
  The bad. Well THe voice acting could have been much better. The story was alright but needed better 
 voice acting to really bring it out. The cars are really weak and like paper until upgraded. NO 
 allies in the field even if you make an alliance with a faction. Not enough wildlife.
  
  Final word. People NEED to stop comparing this to Crysis. They are in no way alike. It is not an 
 RPG as many would like to believe and it is only repetative if you make it. But then again arent 
 all games repetative? Call of Duty 4 - Shoot everyone end of story. Those who dont like the game 
 do not play it right or were expecting something that it isnt. It is exactly what screenshots and 
 videos were showing so what were you expecting? You got hyped from the videos and its all there. 
 The game is fun. Sorry for the wall of text, I am just tired of innaccurate reviews.
  
  TIPS!
  
  Dont want a patrol from a camp chasing? GO AROUND!
  Dont want repetition? Use different 
 tactics such as stealth, sniping, be a pyromaniac or just dont play games? After all every game 
 is repetative in its own way!
  Map to big? Use the bus to et in general ares then drive. 5 minutes of driving WONT kill you, besides 
 you dont need to stay on the road.
  Cars breaking? Pay attention to where your drivingand you wont hit a tree, and the dark spots on 
 the GPS are rocks =)
  Innacurate/weak weapons? Dont use ones covered in mud! Get the unlimited unlockable supply of your 
 favourite guns from the many gun vender locations!
  Think the story ruins it? HINT - ITS CALLED A GAME NOT A MOVIE/NOVEL!
  
  In the end the game 
 is great, and it does shy from potential greatness, but in my opinion because of the dunia engine 
 and all the tecnical advances and fun gameplay its GOTY in my books. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamelover117
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 26, 2008 9:03 pm PT
Review:  Sure, the game looks great, but the gameplay isn't very interesting or all that fun. Yes it will 
 satisfy the average gamer's thirst for action for a while, but after a short time of playing Far 
 Cry 2, you will most likely be let down by the game's unoriginality and poorly executed story.
 
  
  It's not that it's a bad game, it's just not a great one. The gameplay is sort of reminiscent of, 
 well, pretty much every mission based open world shooter. Its not really a run-and-gun shooter, 
 but then again its not a tactical shooter either. Its more of a "run-and-gun if you have full health 
 and be tactical if you are low on health" shooter.
  
  There are much, much better shooters available that will not disappoint you and actually have a 
 good story. Here's an idea: pick up "Far Cry" for the original Xbox and have the time of your life 
 playing through that game. I assure you, it will be a far greater experience than this game has 
 to offer you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: largames
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 26, 2008 7:56 pm PT
Review:  Far Cry 2 is most definitely one of the most immersive shooters I've ever played. The thing that 
 makes so immersive, is the stunning display of dry savannas, shady forests, and hot deserts. The 
 graphics in this game are the best I've ever seen on a console game.
  To get it out of the way though, there are two things I don't like about this game. One, I really 
 don't like that there isn't any split screen in the game. What's the point of making those maps 
 with the most complete map editor I've ever seen on a console, if I can't test it out with a buddy 
 before I release it? The second thing I don't like about this game is mostly just opinion. I'm 
 just not a fan of a class based system for multiplayer. I think It would have been fun to put weapon 
 spawn points on the map.
  Other than those two things, I really recommend this game to anyone who likes amazing graphics, 
 most-of-the-time smart AI, huge areas to explore, and creating entire multiplayer utopias for you 
 to enjoy. The map editor basically means there is an unlimited amount of maps for you to play on. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dniq_gamespot
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 26, 2008 6:31 pm PT
Review:  Let me be honest: this game by far has exceeded most games out there today in visual aspect. The 
 graphics is absolutely fantastic, and unlike Uncharted, where trees turn into sprites (images instead 
 of 3D objects) a few feet away from you, Far Cry 2 manages to handle forests and grass at HUGE 
 distance. The lighting, the sound, everything is top notch. I don't think there's any game in existence 
 right now, which can come even close to Far Cry 2 in terms of how it looks.
  
  Controls, on the other hand, are absolutelly HORRIBLE! I thought that joystics with acceleration 
 have long become thing of the past. But nope: here it ie again, in Far Cry 2. People, it's 21-st 
 century!!! Times where you move a joystick to the side and your character starts turning _with 
 accelerating_ speed, have long gone! And when you release the joystick - it simply stops immediately. 
 Look at Call of Duty! Look at Gears of War, look at hundreds of other titles, where speed with 
 which you turn simply depends on how far you move the joystick! Now in Far Cry 2! And this alone 
 is the reason why PC gamers are making fun of console games: because it's nearly impossible to 
 aim with this stupid acceleration!
  
  Another issue: the character is moving to damn slow! Haven't Alone In The Dark taught anyone anything??? 
 You move left joystick all the way up - and your character starts to move with the speed of a turtle.
 
  
  But completely broken controls are not the only issue with this game. Another issue is the fact 
 that you shoot rubber bullets. Yep, you read it right: RUBBER! Because there's no other way to 
 explain how a guy wearing ONLY SHORTS and not even a T-shirt, can take half a clip into his chest 
 and simply shrug it off. How can a bare body take 10 shots??? Beats me. But these guys can kill 
 you in just 3 shots, with a shot gun, from 300 meters distance, even if you're sprinting. This 
 is totally beyond me.
  
  The only thing that keeps me from abandoning this game is the fantastic visuals. This is the first 
 time I was watching the sun rise _IN A GAME_ with a dropped jaw. Too bad controls spoil all the 
 fun - I could have even finished the game, but the way it is - I'll probably just play a little 
 bit more and if it becomes too frustrating - I'll just trade it in for something I can actually 
 enjoy in full.
  
  7 points, only because of the graphics and sound. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LegendofYaslint
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 26, 2008 5:38 pm PT
Review:  The last thing I expected from a Far Cry game was to be reminded of Oblivion, but that's what I 
 thought after the first 20 minutes of playing Far Cry 2. The game's open world sand box setting 
 is the deepest I've ever seen in a first person shooter. 
  
  The gameplay is tight, with weapons that feel right and vehicles with great handling. It's always 
 fun getting new weapons to use and I really like the way the guns have a realistic amount of recoil 
 and machine guns have little accuracy as they would in the real world. It creates for a very interesting 
 dynamic in intense shoot outs.
  
  The graphics are very impressive for a game with such a large world and so much going on. The lighting 
 is great and the landscapes are beautiful. The character models are sub par but that's not much 
 to gripe about given how good the rest of the game looks.
  
  The story is where the game gets a little weak. There is no real progression in intesity, whether 
 it be the lack of more interesting enemies or more complex environments as the game goes on. It's 
 a flaw that doesn't cripple the game, but it does keep the game from being quite as amazing as 
 a game like Gears of War or Half Life. 
  
  The create a map tool is excellent, although a tutorial would be nice for those unfamiliar with 
 such tools. The online seems pretty fun and with a good community, there should be no shortage 
 of new and exciting maps to enjoy.
  
  I gave it a 9 because it does a lot of new things quite well, but the lack of progression keeps 
 it from a 9.5 or a 10 that should be reserved for shooters as great as Halo, Gears, or Half Life. 
 But most FPS fans should find a good amount to enjoy, if they have the patience to enjoy the open 
 world setting. Call of Duty fans looking for fast linear action might not fall in love any time 
 soon. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Slimp520
Rating: 5
Date: Oct 26, 2008 3:34 pm PT
Review:  I'm a big RPG guy. Finding out that this was an RPG with guns actually made me happy, until I played 
 it. 
  
  It's pretty, I admit. And the character models are amazing. It's like I'm playing a more immense 
 Mass Effect with no texture popping and beautiful scenery, not just beautiful people.
  
  I bought Fable 2 Monday night at midnight and played it for two days straight, forgetting school 
 and even calling in at work. I decided since even though I was liking Fable a lot, I should get 
 another game to take over a little of the boring time I had during Fable, plus I liked that even 
 when not playing, I'd make money. So I figured I'd find something to play while making money. And 
 since I had already pre-ordered and paid for Far Cry, I should go get it. I was expecting greatness. 
 
  
  I let my buddy borrow it that night, seeing as to how I couldn't call in again for work. He played 
 and told me how amazing it was. How you could burn entire things of grass and how people's blood 
 flies all over and just how great in general the game was.
  
  So when I turned it on, I expected great things. I was so bored. I played for 2 and a half hours 
 or so, so very bored. Then I even got mad at how RETARDED the AI is. Why does your friend come 
 to help you, and when he's done just stand there? And why do you get ambushed constantly, and not 
 know why? If the Jackal wanted you dead, you'd have been dead at the beginning, so who the hell 
 would send people after a mercenary? Why is there no way of telling who's who in the game of "Kill 
 every black man you see, unless there's a line over a gun on a little sign." 
  
  I really hate this game. I tried it again today, played for an hour, hated it again. I'm going 
 to give it one more chance, if it's no good, I'm just going to give it to my buddy, and even though 
 I've already beaten everything in Fable, I'll play that until Fallout 3 comes.... Fallout 3 won't 
 disappoint like this game, I know it.
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: gizzy82
Rating: 6
Date: Oct 26, 2008 1:31 pm PT
Review:  This game looks awsome. The graphics are amazing like none i have ever seen on a console.
  
  The guns are ok, perhaps a little basic. Regardless of the weapons the aiming system lets them 
 down big time. Most of the time you need to empty most a clip into a tard b4 it drops them and 
 then they may get up and start running about as though they had been touched by the messiah.
  
  The deception video released b4 FC2 came out is all lies to be honest. I have tried to do exactly 
 what was done in the video, i. e shoot an enemy in the leg and wait for one of his allies come help 
 him so i can blast them both...... well nice idea, but in essence the wounded soldier runs off into 
 cover, even though you just blew part of his foot/leg away.
  
  I so wanted everything about this game to be awsome, unfortunately the hype was just that... HYPE! 
 and it's misleading hype at that.
  
  Worth a rent for sure but once the amazing graphics have worn off you'll have nothing more then 
 a mediocre and some what frustrating game. :* { 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gunslinger_boy
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 26, 2008 1:11 pm PT
Review:  I'm going to be honest, I have been waiting for this game for a while now. Who hasn't? But does 
 it deliver, or should it take a one-way ticket back to Ubisoft?
  
  
  First things first, the gameplay. The first Far Cry was a great success, but for every standout 
 element, there was a flaw. The biggest problem was the invisible walls or that stupid bush that 
 wouldn't let you go past a certain area. Not so anymore. Ubisoft promised unlimited freedom from 
 the get-go, and I must say that for the most part, they succeeded! Whether on foot, in a car or 
 boat, swimming, and yes, handgliding, you no mostly no bounds. The only problem that I have had 
 is not being able to jump over a couple of small rocks and maybe the occasional hill. As for the 
 shooting elements they are fine, but take a bit of getting used to because of the fast moving nature 
 of the gun (default setting that can be adjusted) and the fact that enemies don't just sit there 
 and let you shoot them; they are constantly moving to keep from getting shot. To go on about the 
 shooting, there are about 25 weapons to choose from, and all of which can jam, misfire, and break 
 in the most unfortunate times. However, unjamming your weapon is as easy as hitting the reload 
 button a couple of times. A small but realistic touch that adds immersion and tension to every 
 encounter. One of the biggest draws is the fire propagation that Ubisoft has been going on an on 
 about forever. Well, it works great, and if you think you can start a fire with something, chances 
 are you can. And it is fully realized, and not just a quick gimmick. Another nice touch is your 
 active health system. You have bars on the bottom of the screen, and when you get shot and take 
 damage, the bars go down. Stop taking damage, and that bar will regenerate. Get down to the final 
 one, and you will have to perform an active medic procedure. This includes pulling a bullet out 
 of a certain body part or patting out flames. Realistic and intense, making sure that you stay 
 on your toes at all times. To round everything off, you have a full day/night cycle, and you can 
 attempt any mission in either time. Just go to your safehouse and set your alarm on your watch. 
 There is more to do, but I just gave you the main ones. Perfect for those wanting to play like 
 Rambo or either Solid Snake or Sam Fisher. 
  
  
  Like GTA and SR, you are given an open world to play in, and that does mean that side quest are 
 available. Now, the options are much fewer than them, but what is delivered here is enough to care 
 about. They range from finding diamond cases, hitting supply convoys to unlock new weapons, scouting 
 guard posts, and more. All there to keep you coming back for a while. All in a world that is the 
 size of an actual city, and is yes, bigger than Oblivion! 
  
  
  Now the graphics and sound are a sight to behold. The world is fully realized, with sprawling jungles, 
 long stretches of roads, rivers, lagoons, and small towns. There is a ton of variety to the locations. 
 Characters look fantastic and are varied, but the henchman star to look repetitive by the 2nd half 
 of the game. Ubisoft also included some wild life including some rhinos and zebras from what I 
 have seen so far. The sounds are great, and perfectly compliment the graphics. All characters sound 
 different, but for some strange reason, talk a little too fast. Ambient noises from the environment, 
 vehicles, guns and more all sound appropriate and realistic. 
  
  
  The story is good, but is just there to let you shoot everything that isn't a friend (or is if 
 you are just trigger happy) . But it goes: you are a mercenary sent to track down the mysterious 
 arms dealer known as The Jackel. Things go wrong, you get infected with malaria, and The Jackel 
 goes into hiding. Now, you are on the fast track to kill him... blah, blah, blah, yatta, yatta, 
 yatta. Standard story. What is weird is that it carries NO story over from Far Cry. No scientist, 
 no mention of Jack Carver, and although it's technically not story, NO instinct or predator powers. 
 This is going for a realistic plot, setting, and characters. 
  
  
  Now, no game is perfect, and Far Cry 2 is no exception. Now this is more of a design choice more 
 than anything else, and that is that enemies take a little too many bullets to kill. However, as 
 always, hitting them in the head is an instant kill (and a bloody mess) . Also a design choice is 
 that you have to drive to all of your destinations. There is no magic portal to take you to your 
 destination. This is a love/hate part of the game, and if you hate it, there is a bus that will 
 take you to some locations like a safehouse that you have cleared out. Also, you can't save anywhere 
 you want, you have to go to a safehouse, gun store, or friendly base to save your game. There is 
 no nice way to put it, that is just plain dumb. In an open world such as this, driving out of your 
 way to save, especially during a mission, is very tedious. Thankfully, during a crucial part of 
 your current mission, you usually get the option to save. Now to the flaws. Enemy AI can sometimes 
 spaz out, you can get caught on rocks and other environmental objects with your vehicles (sometimes 
 forcing you to abandon them) . Last but not least, why can't I walk up a hill that is obviously 
 not that steep, jet walk up to another one very similar to the other and get up it just fine!?
 
  
  
  Far Cry 2 is a great game, which the vision and overall quality beat out is flaws. Its just unusual 
 that it carries over nothing from the first. But what we do have is a game that blends many different 
 genres together to give us outstanding visual and audio while giving us very immersive gameplay. 
 FPS fans will have a field day with this one while action fans will find something to love here. 
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: orionwolf
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 26, 2008 9:27 am PT
Review:  How can you take one of the most successful FPS franchises and flip it upside down on purpose? 
 What the hell Ubisoft?! 
  
  Okay so I was fine with the open world gameplay, enamored with a plethora of weapons, thrilled 
 at the amazing graphics and 24-hour clock. I've played about half way through the game, attempting 
 to do all of the missions available be them side or story but I think I'm done now. I've been ambushed 
 hundreds of times at the same checkpoints that I've reconoitered and killed everyone at. This easter-egg 
 hunt for diamonds is just repetitive and boring. I'm plain sick and tired of being mortared ON 
 MY WAY to a mission start (not even there yet) . Being ambushed by a two-man .50 cal turreted vehicle 
 is survivable and repetitive so it makes perfect sense that to make it less repetitive Ubisoft 
 gave those same trucks 40mm grenade launchers and rocket launchers! Less painful when you die faster 
 I guess. And don't get me started on repairing my vehicle and having some road raged !@#$!%$ come 
 tearing down the countryside in his beat up car and ramming me thus killing me. I've had it. All 
 of this on Easy setting! Even a quick save option doesn't make up for these flaws!
  
  I play the PC version and by god it's ground-breakingly beautiful but that's about it. The guns 
 are fun to look at but the gunplay in the game was overpolished. It feels like you're playing a 
 cartoon. Hard to believe that Ubisofts QA department didn't catch that. I remember the original 
 Far Cry, one of my all time favorites, the gunplay was polished but still felt rugged enough to 
 be a realistic shooting experience. 
  
  You know, the original story to Far Cry, as Island of Dr. Moreau as it was... was still interesting 
 and funny all at the same time. The relative humor that was the Mercenary taunts were a nice addition. 
 And the game still played for at least twenty hours! The original (PC 1.0 release) was such a success! 
 What happened to caring about the storyline? This story is flat! It's got near to no substance 
 and is further damaged by the micro-machine speed talk that each of the other players use when 
 talking to you. 
  
  Do yourself a favor, get Dead Space instead, or just wait for Fallout 3 in a few days. Far Cry 
 2 is a perfect example of a development studio focusing on graphics instead of gameplay. What a 
 loss! I'm suprised Gamespot gave it above a seven. Well, on to the next game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: davidwwone
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 26, 2008 7:58 am PT
Review:  I'm now into the game and after a couple of days playing Far Cry 2 I must say what a fantastic 
 game, it takes a bit of getting use to but it's amazing. The combat, the driving, and the tactics 
 they all work. There are a couple of issues with the game but when you have a massive map, a huge 
 30 hour campaign and superb graphics to put together what do you expect its not perfection but 
 its not to far away. Another thing I must mention is that this game is hard really hard, once you're 
 out of a safe house you're in the action, you could be ambushed either buy a group of men or by 
 a jeep/boat with a machine gun on it. I usually play on hard but after looking at various forums 
 I'm on normal and its still hard one bad decision and your dead. Basically a fantastic game well 
 worth the money a 30 hours campaign for 40 what a bargain. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jajdr
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 25, 2008 11:40 pm PT
Review:  This is a game that is more realistic than Grand Theft Auto 4. Mainly because it is in first person. 
 This game gives you a beautiful environment and makes you feel like Rambo. It is extraordinarily 
 immersive in ways that manipulate your brain to make you really feel like your into it. Whenever 
 I'm falling in the game, I feel like I'm actually falling and I get that wierd nervous feeling. 
 The story is actually under-rated in my opinion because I actually felt like I wanted to do what 
 my buddies wanted me to do regardless of whether I had to. The diamond tracker was also cool because 
 it reminded me of the one in No Country for Old Men. The safe houses are very comfortably given 
 to you because you also have a bed and an armory and a car and such. For the first mission, I tried 
 doing it at night and I got out without a scratch on me (unlike my brutally slaughtered foes) . 
 I also like using the map editor and since I don't have live, I just make a map and play around 
 with it. Very fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tizmond
Rating: 5
Date: Oct 25, 2008 10:28 pm PT
Review:  Now, it might be partially my own fault for not fully reading the previews. All I saw on Gamespot 
 was: Far Cry 2, 24th Oct 2008. Without hesitation, I went out & bought the game on release day. 
 What a mistake.
  
  For a start, in no way should this have been given the name Far Cry 2. The only resemblance this 
 bears to the original is: the jungle setting & the vehicles and that's it.
  I could go on & on about the numerous glaring flaws with this game, but my main gripes are with 
 the story not being continued from the original & the removal of the Feral abilities that made 
 the original so unique.
  As a result this game feels more like a generic FPS version of Just Cause, which also had a nice 
 big lush landscape with very little to do in it.
  I realise alot of critics & players are almost obsessed with big "open-world" games at the moment, 
 but I don't think it really works as a console FPS.
  
  I'll just be trading this in for Fallout 3 this week. I have a feeling that Fallout 3 will show 
 Far Cry 2 how to do a big open worlded game properly.
  
  I just hope that UbiSoft re-condider making a proper sequel to the original, instead of labelling 
 fodder like this with the name "Far Cry" on the box. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PureSkillAndLuk
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 25, 2008 10:04 pm PT
Review:  I have never played a Far Cry game before this, or a any game with the Cry engine to be honest. 
 I got this game not actually expecting very much, I thouht I would be amused for a couple days 
 waiting for Gears 2 to come out, but I ended up enjoying this game as much as any other AAA game.
 
  
  The game starts out very slow, to the point that you can't actually move for the first ten minutes 
 or so, and it isn't even a cinematic. The tutorial can take a while, took me about 45 minutes, 
 but finally when I finished and got into the game, I finally started having fun.
  
  After every mission you finish, diamond you find, enemy you kill you get a great sense of accomplishment, 
 especially when you use out-of-the-ordinary tactics like sneaking and such. Missions are fairly 
 varied, and there are a lot for guns here than in an ordinary single player shooter. The weapon 
 upgrading system feels pretty cool, and choosing your guns gives a big feeling of customization.
 
  
  The world is amazingly large and has great varied landscape. This is awesome, and bad at the same 
 time. Since the cars feel like the move ridiculously slow and are not very fun to drive, getting 
 to your destination, which is often excessively far away can sometimes take more than twenty missions, 
 especially if you stop for diamonds and to kill the enemies along the way.
  
  The multiplayer is interesting and pretty fun for a while, but don't expect to buy the game just 
 for that, the game is definitely not a heavy multiplayer game. There are a lot of maps to play 
 in the game and they are greatly varied. The game has a good ranking system and lots of multiplayer 
 unlockables. The guns are interesting but overall seem pretty unbalanced. The assault class seems 
 to be far more powerful than others and the shotgun class feels broken, not letting you get kills 
 even up-close.
  
  Far Cry 2 is amazing, and although some people think it's a GTA or COD rip-off (what?!) don't believe 
 that, the game is very original and is one-of-a-kind. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gearsofwar1221
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 25, 2008 6:50 pm PT
Review:  This game is really superb in most, if not, all aspects of video gaming. The setting is Africa 
 and the atmosphere created by the graphical presentation is truly second to none. In my rather 
 humble opinion it beats the original Far Cry for the PC by a country mile. For the first time in 
 a computer game I got the impression that climatic effects were really occuring. While tranversing 
 the game filled African Savannah a breeze blew up that really created that impression both visually 
 and with sound impressions. The use of vehicles is brilliant. The map is huge and complex and fully 
 explorable. I like games that really immerse you in the sense of the real environment and make 
 you feel that you are really in a place like Africa. This game is clever and sucks you right in 
 from the opening sequence. Great gun battles with both hostile factions. The only reason that I 
 did not give this a 10 is because I know Fallout 3 is coming soon. Different genre but have to 
 leave room for ultimate excellence. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Granty4835
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 25, 2008 6:02 pm PT
Review:  The setting Africa.... the scene, a civil war, the character... a mercenary... sounds good on paper, 
 and worth shelling out nearly 40 quid for.... or so I thought.
  
  Maybe I am missing something, maybe I have done something wrong so early in the game, but it appears 
 to me that this game is very broken.
  
  I class myself as a mature gamer, so realism is a big factor for me. I want to know that the game 
 at least plays fair... well this one does not, not by a long shot (pardon the pun) . Armed trucks 
 just seem to appear from nowhere directly onto your position. I mean its a one tracked road..... where 
 did they come from!!!
  
  Then there are the weapons.... do they have auto aim or not.... because most of the time they cannot 
 make there mind up, until you aim yourself then it kicks in knocking you off balance.
  
  I have not been playing this game long, and already I am sick of killing the same guys at the same 
 checkpoints over end over and over again. This is boring and requires very little skill..... almost 
 like saving the citizen in Assasins Creed.... hmmmm..... who made that one again..... tsk tsk.... Ubisoft, 
 will you never learn.
  
  Then there is the music..... what is that about. when someting seems to be "going down" or you have 
 been spotted the music seems to change to get the old atmoshere going.... but it also has a sense 
 of humour as it also changes for no reason whatsoever making you on your guard for then next minute 
 or so, thinking you are about to be ambushed.... sooner or later this just gets annoying.
  
  I could go on and on all day about this games floors.... and you avid far cry fans will beg to differ 
 at my opinion.... but there are far better games out there than this.
  
  Graphics do not make a game..... Gameplay makes a game, the sooner Ubisoft realise that the better.
 
  
  Off to buy Dead Space tommorow.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: swiney50
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 25, 2008 3:23 pm PT
Review:  This game is really superb in most, if not, all aspects of video gaming. The setting is Africa 
 and the atmosphere created by the graphical presentation is truly second to none. In my rather 
 humble opinion it beats the original Far Cry for the PC by a country mile. For the first time in 
 a computer game I got the impression that climatic effects were really occuring. While tranversing 
 the game filled African Savannah a breeze blew up that really created that impression both visually 
 and with sound impressions. The use of vehicles is brilliant. The map is huge and complex and fully 
 explorable. I like games that really immerse you in the sense of the real environment and make 
 you feel that you are really in a place like Africa. This game is clever and sucks you right in 
 from the opening sequence. Great gun battles with both hostile factions. The only reason that I 
 did not give this a 10 is because I know Fallout 3 is coming soon. Different genre but have to 
 leave room for ultimate excellence. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Trooperdx3117
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 25, 2008 3:03 pm PT
Review:  Let me be frank about this Far Cry 2 is one of the most ambitious games on the 360 and in the beginning 
 you will feel crushingly dissapointed. The first few hours of missions you'll find there isnt chance 
 to be creative in your approach to mission objectives, there are no stunning sights that make you 
 think the game is good looking and worst of all you're forced to travel strictly on roads at the 
 beggining which means you dont even feel like this game is a freeform shooter. As well as that 
 all you have are crap weapons at the beggining that feel satisfying to shoot at all. But then suddenly 
 the game opens up to you. Suddenly you have wide open african plains and huge river valleys that 
 look absolutely gorgeous and provide ample space to explore. As well as that the missions start 
 offering you real freeform action. For me the first time this happened was when I was given a mission 
 to assasinate a man in some fishing village. I waited until night and then stealthily made my way 
 to the docks the target was on. I had to move carefully and quietly to avoid alerting the guards 
 and what followed were some of the most tense moments i've ever had in a game as I snuck my way 
 past the guards till I reached my target. A quick shot in the head with my silenced pistol and 
 he was dead. But it wasnt over yet, as I turned around I saw a soldier standing right in front 
 of me with a shotgun pressed to my head. Any other game and thats it game over but not in Far Cry. 
 The soldiers gun jammed as he tried to fire it and as he started slapping it to unjam it I pulled 
 out a machete and plunged it into his chest. I then dived into the water and as I emerged on the 
 shore away from the village I heard the distant cry of a guard discovering the two dead bodies. 
 This is just one of many anecdotes from my playing of Far Cry. Although as many people have pointed 
 out the missions in the game are often repetetive this is more than offset by the sheer plethora 
 of options available for completing your missions. While mainly PC players are used to games that 
 offer freeform action like this it is a totally new experience for those of us who play consoles. 
 Of course Ubisoft have done a commendable job of making one of the most hardcore games to have 
 been released on the 360 accessible for so many people. Thsi largely helped by the fluid controls, 
 although they are a direct rip of CoD4's controls this is no bad thing considering CoD4 got first 
 person shooting controls spot on and its a good idea to give this game fluid controls since there 
 are so many things that console players will have to learn to do that they havent done in any games 
 before. And its this depth that really gives Far Cry 2 legs. If you do a quick run through Far 
 Cry 2 then it will take 25 hours to complete but my advice is to take your time soak in the sights 
 and unlock everything in the game which really is worth it. If you take your time the game could 
 very well add up to 100 hrs and believe they are a fun 100 hrs. So all in all a solid singleplayer 
 and this even before mentioning the multiplayer and its amazing map editor. I dont have live so 
 I cant pass judgement on the multiplayer but rest assured the map creator is brilliant and intuituve 
 and if its embraced by the online community which it should be then expect to see some absolutely 
 amazing maps. So all in all this game is absolutely amazing and should be played by every shooter 
 fan who is sick of linear shooters and is looking for something more challenging and one that requires 
 real thought and planning to completing missions then pick this game up immediatley without delay. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: UniQ
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 25, 2008 1:50 pm PT
Review:  Far Cry 2, the sequel to the well recieved Far Cry... or is it? No it really isnt, the only thing 
 it share is the name, a name to sell the game and I understand why they need it....
  
  My expectations were average, the game looked nice and the settings in a african country in Civil 
 War was something that sounded fun. Though the previews werent that good I picked it up and started 
 playing.
  
  You can choose a character in the begining, how it matters I do not know, just something to add 
 in the game for no reason but I guess it gives the game some flavour, it needs it. 
  
  The begining of the game was good, still you notice the biggest flaw immedietly, the AI. I walked 
 right up to a guy, and bam then he shot me. I might add that I had no idea that he was an enemy, 
 but I learnt that every guy out there with a gun is your enemy and your job is to kill countless 
 of armed guys to stop the civil war practically alone. Yeah it sounds stupid and it is stupid.
 
  
  The game have nice graphics, cant argue about that but the game was just no fun. It feelt like 
 watching a really bad movie or reading homework, slow and teadious and something you just want 
 to walk away from. The game feelt stiff and boring all the time. Drive to point A, gets quest, 
 Drive to point B kill some guys, drive back, rince and repeat. and plus that the driving took some 
 time, boring time I might add.
  
  No I don't like this game, others might but I honestly think those can't see past the games nice 
 graphics. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: incarnatethegre
Rating: 1
Date: Oct 25, 2008 12:14 pm PT
Review:  This game purely LACKS!!
  
  
  
  The good things? Graphics and landscape, the passing of the 24-hour day, the flamethrower and use 
 of brush fires to kill, the removing of bullets, etc.
  
  
  The constant checkpoints with soldiers, the crappy aim, the not-so great loading times, the MALARIA, 
 the time it takes to get to missions, locating diamonds (ughhhhh) , bugs (as in programming issues) , 
 etc. 
  
  Also, this game lacks a cover system. Most shooters (1st and 3rd person) have a cover system. Here? 
 You have to hide like you did back in the old games. No one should have to do that anymore! How 
 can you not have a cover system?
  
  
  The game tries to emulate the GTA style, but it lacks horribly. I expected better. Good thing I 
 can to return this trash. Maybe there are better games out right now.... like Dead Space.
  
  This game's bad. Play something else. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: guitarist131
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 25, 2008 11:34 am PT
Review:  Ok this game is so awsemone. Like 2 months ago i was watching the video review of gow and then 
 i saw a game in Games you may like i saw Far Cry 2 i enter to the game page and i can only said 
 revolutionary masterpiece . And then i buy the game and the graphics are so brilliant and than 
 multiplayer is so addictive i can say it will be the next big thing of the Xbox Live community 
 you can create you're maps easily and this map creator mode is even and much better than halo3 
 forge the story takes place in Africa you're mission is to kill THE JACKAL the story campaign is 
 awesome beacuse you can do wathever you want you can take away missions and do wathever you want 
 drive kill fly buy weapons found diamonds the campaign is like 50 hours of gameplay beacuse they 
 are side mssions , story missions, underground missions , and assisanation missions. You're character 
 have malaria in order the malaria comes every 30 to 40 minutes real time you'll need to complete 
 undergruond missions to get this pills and resist this illness . Well i only can said you that 
 you need to buy this game go to a nearly store and buy it . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: oneofthefall
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 25, 2008 6:37 am PT
Review:  As someone who has been waiting Patiently for the Release for a long time i was not dissapointed! 
 Theres alot in this game to keep the mind constantly occupied and the player hooked for hours (yes 
 hours) ,
  
  Theres not really anything in this game for me that i disliked but there is room for improvement 
 as in all games! i dont want to be a spoiler and i wont so... if your a Hardcore FPS Player looking 
 for a great looking open world game packed with Action that is fully alive.. makes you use your 
 brain and instinct with A. I that does the same and can Maneuver 360 degree angles around you.. 
 with a nice choice of weapons Vehicles and upgrades Get Far Cry 2
  
  Like i said with any Game theres room for improvement and hopefully there will be some downloadable 
 content in the near future and the things i would like to see would be a few more Weapons and some 
 lions & Hyenas or Elephants? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vigorsnake
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 25, 2008 4:20 am PT
Review:  Loading time takes a while but its all worth it. Really big map. Far Cry2 is a mix of, "Call of 
 Duty" and "Grand Theft Auto." At the start of the game i noticed on my XBOX 360 that the graphics 
 were a bit pixely. I noticed little black dots on the faces of some people on the game. The story 
 to this game is okay, voice acting is pretty good but i think the game needs more words for the 
 bad guys. a lot of them say the same words a lot. I think if Crytek still had control on this game, 
 the graphics would have been a lot better. I blame ubisoft for the not so perfect graphics. I cant 
 wait to finish this game before COD5 comes out. Over all i think Far Cry2 is almost great. Mulitplayer 
 kind of sucked for me. respawn takes a while and sometimes i spawned in front of the bad guys. 
 Its a game worth playing and beating once. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: piewackerz
Rating: 5
Date: Oct 25, 2008 1:26 am PT
Review:  this game has alright graphics, a terrible story and is just flawed in almost every way the map 
 system is annoying the fact you have to drive/walk/fly etc everywhere gets boring very quickly 
 and also the game is very repetitive and boring
  the only part i have liked in the game so far is the controls there good for a shooter now we jut 
 need a good shooter to match them
  also how does 3 slices from a machete not kill some1 ubisoft failed again
  just stick to rpgs 
 or tactical shooters or watever u do well idc just dont make some horrible game and make it out 
 like it awesome
  i wish i didnt buy it $110 dollars down the drain
  i think ill return it and buy dead space or fable 2 maybe and actual good game
  maybe ill just 
 wait till fall out 3 come out atleast that will be good
  i hope...
  just dont buy this game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BlackFalcon128
Rating: 6
Date: Oct 24, 2008 8:13 pm PT
Review:  I LOVED the first farcry and the expansions that were later released. And when i heard they were 
 making farcry 2 i needed a moment to calm down. The original farcry game was awsome. Graphics, 
 game play, story.. it had it all. And yes graphics and game play are big parts of a game but i for 
 one feel that a good story makes the game, espically when it can make u get lost in it.
  
  I just bought this game (farcry 2) and let me say after playing for 10 minutes , i couldnt believe 
 what i was hearing. Ive tried to give it a chance by playing some more but i just cant get into 
 it. Sure the sorroundings look very nice, and the driving is good, but other than that its completely 
 boring. The character dialouge is FLAT, The Character models are CRAP, ive seen better on the old 
 xbox. The story isnt interesting, and when is the last time a merc called his comrades BUDDIES????? 
 WTF. I did 1 mission and i was completely bored out of my mind. what a let down and a disappointment. 
 
  
  Id rather play Army of Two and we all know how horrible that game was. Its good to see that alot 
 of you guys like this game, but I for one dont. its being traded in or maybe used as a COASTER 
 on my table. 
  
  Cheers.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: johnfrusciantex
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 24, 2008 8:03 pm PT
Review:  Wow. Thats all I can even begin to say about this game. When this came out, and so did the review, 
 I was almost biased and was going to believe the 8.5 rating. But like always, gamespot really undermined 
 this game with a half ass review. 
  
  Pros: Graphics are best ive seen since GTA IV, The way the fire propegates is just moving (pun 
 intended) , the weather and dynamic time changes are top notch realistic, AI is actually smart for 
 a change, gameplay is absolutly thrilling and suspensful raising the hair off the back of your 
 neck, guns and the depletion of their reliability works perfect with all other elements of gameplay, 
 the side missions and "buddies" you unlock in the game work very well with the flow of gameplay, 
 no load times and having an open world (ughm 50 kilometers to be exact) is just so enthralling, 
 multiplayer doesn't lag hardly at all, and the best part: MAP EDITOR; I would spend hours on fc 
 1 doing maps and it was the exact same when I created my own map.
  
  Cons: Only complaint is the fact that the map on the single player is kinda hard to follow at times. 
 But thats just a minor inconvenience just as important problems in the world other than the USA 
 is to President Bush.
  
  BUY BUY BUY. Yes I did. So BUY IT. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wjb428
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 24, 2008 6:07 pm PT
Review:  If your wondering if you should but this game but dont know, i was in your situation and decided 
 to BUY, ill explain all i can to help you decide.
  
  I like games like CoD's, Gears of war, Metal gear solid, i hate Halo3, i live Team fortress 2, 
 like Counter strike. And i like this game pretty good. (I am telling you this because i see alot 
 of the "I like CoD will i like this?")
  
  Ok, when you start out this game it has a 45 min tutorial. (The game has alot to explain of course, 
 and PS: the tutorial is all regular gameplay) After you complete the tutorial basically the world 
 is yours, pick any mission, help sides do whatever, so if the first 45 mins seem weird for a "open 
 ended" game thats why.
  
  This game has so much to explain i dont know were to start, first ill start off with the AI. The 
 AI in this game is average, they have some unique things I. E if you drive past a encampment they 
 might hop i a jeep and chase you. They never have the cheap Pop and and your dead feel that games 
 like CoD4 and gears of war have.
  
  Now onto the Map itself. This game advertises as being an "Open world FPS". This is true to an 
 extent. Yes the game lets you go were you want at will, but about 45% of the time there are mountains 
 of each side. All in all the Map is very nice though.
  
  The Story is there, but not there at the same time, yes you are looking for the Jackel, but it 
 seems like the dim background of the game that is mentioned every one and a while.
  
  Now about combat. Generally speaking the only combat you will see is either passing a outpost, 
 doing a mission, or taking over a safe house. Even though the Combat isnt as in your face as many 
 games like CoD is dose feel more real. Combat can be approached in a series of ways, you can go 
 stealthy, rush in, and use distractions, but either way youll most likely youll want to observer 
 and scout it before you take any action.
  
  If your looking for a straight up shooter go get something else, this has more stealth in it.
 
  
  The Multiplayer is pretty fun, the best way to describe it is a slower paces CoD4. This multiplayer 
 requires more cover to cover, and in some maps stealth is the name of the game. The Multiplayer 
 is class based, but this keeps it balanced and it dosnt cut out the experience at all.
  
  The Map Editor is pretty cool, you can make pretty much whatever you can think up. It takes a while 
 to get all the cont roles down though. The fact that the Map Editor dosnt have enemy's you can 
 place really cuts the experience. But if your into making maps without doing anything in them except 
 maybe play them online, go for it.
  
  All in all, if your a FPS fan who also likes some stealth and thinking involved, it should be picked 
 up.
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ace-of-spades93
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 24, 2008 4:02 pm PT
Review:  believe the hype ppl because this games gonna blow you away. prior to this review i was sick of 
 ppl talking bout how immersive the game felt. it thought it was just a bad sales gimmic for people 
 having a mid-life crisis and needed to feel like a hero. 
  but my god does this game suck you in from the moment it sets off with its call of duty style (unskippable) 
 introduction. You feel for those stranded, you loath the jackal for his cocky arrogance and you'll 
 be desperately scrambling to try and get a cure for your malaria. all this in 20 minutes not bad 
 eh.
  and once your in theres no escape, the frantic pace of firefights and the bone snapping, blaze 
 dowzing, schrapnel pulling first aid attempts will amuse and horrify you for hours. the core gameplay 
 however is good. guns feel weighty and satisfying to shoot with such a large variety of guns and 
 an even larger variety of ways to hunt down, attack and mutilate your enemies is exquisite.
  Multiplayer is solid. sure theres not a huge variety but whats there is solid. its quite clear 
 after you're first online match however you'll soon see where this game got its inparation (bfbc) 
 mirroring its buy and swap class system and large maps. this lack of originality was slightly offputting 
 for a moment but then i saw a soldier snap his leg back into place whilst the field around him 
 burnt to a crisp :P with the easy to use map editor (ita true) providing infinite number of new 
 maps and game ideas the fun can see no boundaries.
  My only criticisms of this game are as follows;
  Animals look like lego
  Map is slightly too 
 big. i admire ubisoft for their determination to provide a huge free-roam world but 50km2 is pushing 
 it a bit. and with no blisteringly fast car, planes or helicopters im afraid you'll either have 
 to peg it, drive or god forbid catch a bus.
  Thirdly is that its all a bit showy all the animations like opening doors getting in and out of 
 cars guns jamming is novel but not fun after the 100th time.
  
  but apart from these minor foibles this game is pretty much perfect. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Elementer93
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 24, 2008 2:59 pm PT
Review:  A good game I didnt really expect much i really wanted to make a map in the new mapeditor so i 
 could later play with my friends. Well Where is the local splitscreen multiplayer?!!!!!!! Just 
 online plying on Xbox live. The single player was awsome great graphics and gameplay. They better 
 fix an update that fixes the multiplayer. fixit fix it fix it fix it fix it fix it fix it fix it 
 fix it fix it fix it fix it fixit fix it fix it fix it fix it fix it fix it fix it fix it fix it 
 fix it fix it fixit fix it fix it fix it fix it fix it fix it fix it fix it fix it fix it fix it 
 fixit fix it fix it fix it fix it fix it fix it fix it fix it fix it fix it fix it fixit fix it 
 fix it fix it fix it fix it fix it fix it fix it fix it fix it fix it fixit fix it fix it fix it 
 fix it fix it fix it fix it fix it fix it fix it fix it fixit fix it fix it fix it fix it fix it 
 fix it fix it fix it fix it fix it fix it fixit fix it fix it fix it fix it fix it fix it fix it 
 fix it fix it fix it fix it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wii_dude101
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 24, 2008 11:30 am PT
Review:  Well I would like to say first, if you didn't like Far Cry 1 then try this game, it's really not 
 "Far Cry 2" its more of its own creation. I would like you to remember that the first 1 hour or 
 so are alittle boring but it really picks up after that. Well heres my scoring system, first the 
 good then the bad, well let's start.....
  
  The Good: Beautiful huge game, story is pleasing, long game, really trys to do everything (Map 
 Creator, multiplayer and long story) AMAZING map creator! Multiplayer is pretty fun, fire is fun 
 to play with, Dunia engine is incredibly strong with a constant 30fps and barely any dips, really 
 nailed vehicles, all including great handling.....
  
  
  The Bad: Can get alittle repetitive, multiplayer is fun but forgettable, as above, few dips in 
 graphical issues......
  
  Well as you can see it's a great game, yes they could have done better. I gotta give them props 
 for the engine though, dunia engine is INCREDIBLE! Huge map, and great gameplay! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -White_Knight-
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 11, 2009 1:15 pm PT
Review:  I've been playing FarCry since 2005, (when "Instincts" was released for the Xbox.) Naturally, I 
 bought "Predator" for the 360. And, naturally I'd buy this one.
  
  It's a FAR different game than the previous versions. That's not ALL bad, however.
  
  Let's 
 start with the campaign... It's an amazing experience! An all-out free roaming survival test! The 
 graphics are incredible!!! There are tons of guns and vehicles!!! I couldn't ask for it to be any 
 better! It, alone, is worth the $60.
  
  The map editor is the best you'll find in any game. It has everything that you need. (The only flaw 
 is that there are no placeable weapons.)
  
  The multiplayer, sadly, in my opinion, is the worst part of the game. First of all, there is no 
 split-screen mode. Secondly, there are no guns to pick up, no tree traps, no claymores, and no 
 predator mode... this is all because of a new "upgradeable" weapon system... it's pretty good, 
 but it's not like FarCry: Instincts at all... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drumerdude361
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 24, 2008 9:24 am PT
Review:  I have to say that I waited about two years for this game and I am glad to say that it was well 
 worth it. This is just a review for only about 10 hours of play, but nontheless it is a review 
 haha. 
  
  This has to be one of the best first person shooters Ive played in a while. It is the whole package 
 deal. Great multiplayer, single player, and map editor. 
  
  GRAPHICS - definitely one of the best lookiing first person shooters on the market to date. From 
 the lush forests, to the inner cities. This game just looks simply amazing. In single player and 
 in multiplayer. Seeing as it is so huge though, pop up is expected and yes it does happen. Personally 
 though, I tend to over look this. Other than that, the whole game is amazing.
  
  GAMEPLAY - I was very pleased by the mechanics of the game. Fairly generic, but with added things 
 like popping out bullets in awesome ways. I also like the fact that four weapson can be held. The 
 game is tough, but thats what makes it fun, the challenge.
  
  The only downside for me is the lack of a strong story line. But the gameplay makes up for this. 
 BUY IF YOU LOVE FPS'S!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: victor_182
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 24, 2008 8:48 am PT
Review:  This game sis genius. It is a blast to play, and it is never the same. The only bad this is that 
 it takes so long to get anywhere. I understand why it is that way it makes it feel like a more 
 real world, but could have had more shortcuts (bus stations) . Other than that this game just rocks 
 hardcore! The graphics are amazing, the gameplay is just crazy, the healing system is awesome, 
 and the environment is just awesome. The online is a lot of fun to play. The only downfall is that 
 it takes too long to get into a game, and you can accidentally reset your class if you aren't paying 
 attention and yes it makes you mad because you have to build it all back up. So all in all this 
 game is a must have if you haven't already get it!!!! You will definitely not regret it, if you 
 life COD you will more than likely love this game I do, if you like GTA you might not. But all 
 in all this game deserves a great review. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: paul141
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 13, 2008 3:04 am PT
Review:  Farcry 2 is absolutly stunning, the graphics on landscape and guns are amazing. i am not far into 
 this game just doin the odd mission but i have noticed something is annoying about it. The travelling 
 is very annoying. it takes absolutly ages to travel to do one mission, although the missions are 
 good but are ruined as you know once uve done it uve got to do a hell of a lot travelling after 
 it. Some people say it doesnt have a story, ive only played it 4 a good few hours and i can c it 
 will get good, u can pick to betray people also with gives it a good twist. Online well what can 
 i say!! if you love cod 4 online you will love it all i can say about the online lol once you have 
 ben shot you can heal yourself in dusgusting ways like rippin bullets out yourself and putting 
 fire in wound holes. So if you like cod 4 and previous fps like black u will love this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Trumpits
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 24, 2008 7:32 am PT
Review:  Multiplayer, multiplayer, multiplayer thats what is going to make of break this game. With the 
 map maker the possibilities are endless on what can be done.
  
  The wepons upgrade in multiplayer seems cool, the sniper rifles you start with suck nuts but that 
 can be upgraded. A few more multiplayer modes would have been nice as well, but its fun to run 
 people over in multiplayer. 
  
  Being able to heal yourself leads to some gruesome cut shots, but I love that stuff.
  
  Its 
 pretty damn fun so far, a nice break from COD 4 live. If COD world at war is what it sould be this 
 game may fall quitly off the face of the earth.
  
  That said its some fun sh1t to say the least, the controls seem a little wonky in the sensitivity 
 to me. It is something that anyone should be able to get used to in a short amount of time.
  
  I am having a hard time playing single player because live is so damn fun. I dont regret buying 
 it at all, well worth the $60. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mikal030
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 24, 2008 7:10 am PT
Review:  Not sure why there are people saying this is the "best and greatest game I ever played". Then quite 
 frankly you haven't played a lot of games or your still sowing your gaming oats. The game is good 
 don't get me wrong but no where near the greatest. A couple of things are annoying me about this 
 game. 1. I need to activate the map to use the monocle when I'm scoping out an area 2. The time 
 between missions because you have to drive everywhere - should be an option. It would be cool to 
 travel between safehouses via "tunnels" to cut the time down 3. No widescreen - it feels like I'm 
 driving a tank when in a vehicle. Despite these three annoying things the game plays very well 
 and the environment is absolutely beautiful. It makes you want to touch the grass lol and the wind 
 effects on the surrounding plant lfe is a great effect. I'm no where near done it but after seeing 
 to many "10s" and "9.5s" being thrown around I had to say something. Overall its a good game and 
 worth the $60 to buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheWarrior_94
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 24, 2008 5:23 am PT
Review:  This game is absoulutely stunning. The graphics are breath-taking and the gameplay is so fun.
 
  
  The one bad thing about this game is the traveling.
  
  After walking for about five minuets to get to an objective you start to get frustrated. Of course 
 this can be fixed by driving but it's quite hard to find a car.
  
  Overall this game is one of the best games i've played on. If your into GTA and stuff like that 
 you probably won't like it. If your a cod fan you may like this game as it is a first person shooter 
 but it's much more tactical.
  
  Buy this game if you liked the previous Far cry's because in my oppinion it's the best in the series. 
 More world to explore and it's up to you on what you want to do.
  
  If you want a fun, long lasting tactical shooter I think this is the perfect game for you 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cocomacoco
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 24, 2008 12:02 am PT
Review:  Far Cry 2 is not a name for this game obviously, as it has nothing to do with previous Far Cry 
 titles, or any other associated content, The Far Cry Universe nevertheless should have been like 
 this long time ago.
  
  I'm going to be very brief, but forget about the Story in this game, the fact is that you're going 
 to have all in one package a game that its:
  
  -Huge as Oblivion was, not so populated with foes, but definitely BIG, and you will Cry for how 
 Far you have to drift across the jungle to get from point A to B (nevertheless the Driving is fun, 
 and you can take out Outposts, find Diamonds and other things that are really into the Zelda RPG 
 stuff, Love it!)
  
  -Good looking as COD4, yes my friends, this is an open world game, and FPS a the same time, and 
 it looks far better than any other game you have played of Open World, and it looks comparable 
 (arguably true) to Call Of Duty or any other good looking game outhere, Awesome!
  
  -A lot of Variety to choose, jump, killed, burn, slaughter, stealth (really, i did) , whatever you 
 like, really, Freedom is one but the word that reigns in Africa's Far Cry, unleashed your inner 
 beast and get ready to transform the Jungle.
  
  -Story Line is Super Lenghty, I'm very surprised this game looks so awesomely good, and can packed 
 a Gargantuan Map, and about 40 hrs of Gameplay, plus the extra 4 missions for pre-ordering (I got 
 them right!)
  
  -Sprinting and healing yourself out of trouble was never so real, imagine a character that will 
 try to heal himself all the time according to the wounds he had:
  if you're burning you will spat your body around to turn it off, If you got shot in the leg or 
 the hand you will take out the bullet with a gory effect, and you will see the Whole you had because 
 of been shot, you will put bandages to your arms, etc, what can be more real than that? Uh?
  
  -A very useful GPS system which EA should learn about when making a game like Burnout Paradise 
 that you can't just find your way around.
  
  -Incredibly good Physics and environments, everything blows better than Call of Duty or Gears, 
 honestly amazing job, you can just compared this to Frosbite Engine of Dice.
  
  -You get to choose your character, and this is part were this gets interesting, as this game has 
 in it all the right ingredients that the original Mercenaries from Pandemic had, huge environments, 
 Vehicles, blowing and shooting guys, making people do what they don't want to do and then kill 
 them, excellent job in one word. This game is more Mercenaries 2 than the real Pandemic recent 
 launched title, really.
  
  - A complete Day and Night time frame which makes it more interesting
  
  - You got Malaria, 
 many people might hate it; but makes it a little bit more interesting and real, that's i Believe 
 the main reason, this game is Real, like the Water you drink everyday. And that's exactly what 
 developers wanted to show, a Real world of events.
  
  -Value money multiplayer, which is great, feels like any other good FPS multiplayer in stores, 
 and you have the great Add, if you like to work hard, to do your own maps, forget the Halo 3 complicated 
 Forge, this is really easy, and they look great, Plus Ubi will make public the best ones available, 
 your work as a gamer gets a taste of Glory to put it somehow.
  
  -This game packs enough content and stuff to keep you busy for a long time, and for the price is 
 much better than many other games you buy for same or little less money, this game is more a good 
 buy than COD4. Seriously!
  
  - This is the part where you're going to disagree, I think this game is not inferior or worse than 
 any other game of this year, or even near future Holiday Titles, it might be better even for certain 
 individuals.
  
  -Using your Flamethrower here I betcha is better than in Gears Will be and better than In CODWaW, 
 rest assure is fun!
  
  That's it, few thoughts, buy it and enjoy.
  
  C. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Draylorn
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 23, 2008 9:53 pm PT
Review:  This is a great shooter. No doubt about that. But understand: the open world immediately injects 
 the gameplay with a GTA-like structure. You have to drive a lot between action sequences. It can 
 be tedious, but it's also realistic, and if you can appreciate that, you may like this game.
  
  The biggest gripe I have with the game so far is actually that the game is missing a mechanic: 
 climbing. Assassin's Creed comes to mind. There is a lot of vertical terrain in FC2, or so it would 
 seem. I keep finding that I am unable to get the vantage points I want to, becuase I can't climb 
 certain slopes, or I can't jump up and grab a ledge. Had this been added, I might say that FC2 
 is revolutionary. But as it stands, the many unreachable areas of the map make the game seem more 
 GTA-like than ever; like you're just driving and running around large, leafy corridors. It really 
 detracts from the sense of freedom and immersion for me. Maybe I'll change my tune when I get to 
 the open savannah areas, but the jungle certainly feels restricting.
  
  My other gripe is with the story and dialogue. I was expecting something more along the lines of 
 Mass Effect or Deus Ex, but again, this is more like GTA. You find someone, they give you a misson, 
 buh-bye. It doesn't help that no matter what character you pick, you are the silent hero. It seems 
 like a waste to have nine playable characters when it does not change the story or gameplay at 
 all.
  
  One last thing - the map editor. It is incredible, but I would like it better if I could make single 
 player maps too. They don't even give you the option of adding NPCs or wildlife at all. I wanted 
 to try making a forest with wildlife and go hunting or something, but alas, it's not meant to be.
 
  That reminds me, FC2's africa seems to be unusually lacking in wildife. So far, I haven't seen 
 any animals that aren't livestock, though apparently later there will be zebras and stuff. I haven't 
 seen any birds up close or in the trees - just up in the sky, and no dangerous predators at all. 
 This unfortunately adds even more to the GTA-like atmosphere, and detracts from the feeling of 
 immersion.
  
  Needless to say, FC2 isn't exactly what I expected, but it's still quite fun and impressive. You'll 
 just have to decide for yourself how you feel about it, but it's doubtful that you won't at least 
 find the action to be fun and engaging. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WarGrad
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 23, 2008 4:17 pm PT
Review:  I have no problems with the game except the steep difficulty curve at the beginning. After the 
 tutorial is over, basically it could have said, "Tutorial is over, you are so screwed." Checkpoints 
 become alive, trucks with machine guns and soldiers are the norm, and you are the target at first. 
 You will be in so many firefights long before you reach your first main mission. That is the only 
 real issue so far, the story is a little weak but easily ignored. The graphics are very very impressive, 
 the audio is great. The game switches between day and night time which makes attacks on guard posts 
 and bases more strategic and less run and gun. The game is about 30 hours in length and makes for 
 a really wild weekend. Don't forget about the map editor and multiplayer. So many options for maps 
 with the editor. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pentium4dude
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 23, 2008 2:21 pm PT
Review:  There is no reason why this game should not be rated above a 9.0. I picked up this game with intense 
 anticipation and did it ever pay off. This is the best $50.84 cents I have ever paid. The biggest 
 thing that contributes to this game is the infinite maps for multiplayer. The ability to use the 
 map editor to create endless supplies of maps just adds to the value. The second part that makes 
 this game so wonderful is the outstanding story line. The game is so dedicated to player immersion 
 that it will keep you begging for more. The ability to have the "diamond" system and such makes 
 the game so much more immersive. Take note, game developers, that for a multiplayer map editor 
 to be included in a game is outstanding and increases the replay value tenfold. Kudos to FarCry 
 2, you succeeded in many gamers eyes! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Colbs678
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 23, 2008 11:06 am PT
Review:  First off, this game is not a your typical first person shooter. If your looking for a linear, 
 level based, non-stop action shooter, wait for CODV. This game is a cross between Oblivion, Half-Life 
 2, and Grand Theft Auto. Many people would complain that travel in FC2 is tedious, but they most 
 likely have not taken advantage of the bus system. Bus stops are located at all four corners of 
 each half of the map, with one central stop in the middle (where you will be given all your missions) . 
 Freedom to tackle each mission ANY WAY YOU'D LIKE is where this game truly stands out. Anyone with 
 a creative mind will find this game to truly be a blast. You can sneak in at night & take everyone 
 out with a silenced pistol, stand from afar and snipe, go rambo style with an AK and grenade launcher, 
 simply blow everything up, light everything on fire with a molotov... the possibilities are endless. 
 If your looking for an immersive, realistic, first person shooter that gives you complete freedom 
 on how you want to play, FC2 is a perfect canidate. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ctburesch
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 27, 2008 9:39 pm PT
Review:  First to the people who wanted a more shooter like Call of Duty or Halo, this game was created 
 to be a different shooter as most people who enjoy the genre are looking for a more involving experience. 
 Halo is one of the worst shooters out there and Call of Duty is riddled with unreality. Now, This 
 game's map size is huge is the first thing I noticed. It takes several minutes to get from 1 side 
 to the other. Tho I seem to get shot at everywhere I try to go. The graphics are amazing contrary 
 to what some people here who do not know what good graphics are. The graphics remind me of another 
 Ubisoft Montreal game; Assasin's Creed. This game is an involving experience as I have said. The 
 choices in the game are yours to make on who you choose to work with (what faction or group) . Unlike 
 fake duty you do not miraculously heal automatically, you actually have to pull bullets out and 
 inject yourself with needles for healing, which is much more realistic. The aiming system is more 
 geared to a fan of FPS. The sites are good and I enjoy the steel sights for owning enemies. The 
 explosions are so good too. I was taken back by how good the explosions are. The wildlife running 
 freely is also very cool. Now the destructable environment is also very cool. Everything is not 
 destructable which is cool, but setting the grass on fire is very cool, especially when you are 
 looking for a way to confuse enemies this is a cool thing. The 24 hour clock and weather features 
 are also very welcome and new way to do a shooter game. The multiplayer is also very fun and you 
 can rank up just as in other shooters on the market right now. The maps are very good and fun to 
 play on. The choices of weaponry when you begin is also welcome as some game (COD4) give you not 
 much. The map making feature is one of the reasons I had bought the game. It is very fun to play 
 online unranked games against other people on one of your maps and watch and see how people do 
 or don't enjoy playing on them. Basically this game is a very welcome addition to the FPS genre 
 and I will be playing this for -years to come.
  
  * follow up.. what a pain this game has become. moving anywhere in africa is a pain due to all of 
 the checkpoints. if your vehicle blows up like mine have done by the supermen patrols, have fun 
 walking as you will do it a lot. most of my gameplay so far has been walking and walking. there 
 should be an achievment for walking over 1000 miles as i have probably done it.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bebebebebebe123
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 23, 2008 9:13 am PT
Review:  Many people will compare Far Cry 2 with Crysis on graphic, physics, and game play. Even though 
 it's a sound comparison, it doesn't mean you can left this game out for any reason.
  
  First off, the graphic is great, from the destroyable vegetations, non-dismembering NPCs, semi-destructible 
 buildings, exploding weapons, destroyable vehicles, etc. Sure, Far Cry 2 still can't beat Crysis, 
 but it offers more items to keep you from feeling repetitive. The weather, especially the 24hrs 
 cycle feature just sucks you in and increase the replayability of the game. When you can max out 
 all the setting and play it on a big enough screen, you can really feel the heat in Africa.
  
  Second, you can expect the physics in here is as real as you can get from other FPS. For example, 
 either the cars are too light in Africa or the grenade is very powerful, they just blow up too 
 high when they met. As of degradable weapons, which happens unrealistically fast, frustrates and 
 force you to reload from time to time. But it can be resolve by visiting the weapon shop and the 
 store room more often. Personally, it would be better to have more gore, as it is the last wilderness 
 of mankind, right?
  
  Third, it does ok as a sandbox game. However, missions are generally competing with each other 
 which forces you to make those choices. It's your choice to help your buddies or just stick with 
 those high paying jobs. They are both challenging nonetheless. It's a good game which takes a slightly 
 different path and makes thing look very beautiful. Rent it, grab it, and see it for yourself. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FlawlessSeasons
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 23, 2008 8:36 am PT
Review:  Oh FPS genre, you're so over saturated in today's market its nice to see a gem shine through the 
 piles of crap. Farcry 2 is quite possibly one of the most ambitious FPS to hit the market this 
 year, it takes the scale and adventure of games like Oblivion and ads guns and explosives to the 
 mix resulting in one truly entertaining game.
  
  The story of Farcry 2 is somewhat of a rip off of Heart of Darkness (or Apocalypse now, whichever 
 you're more familiar with) just not as good. You play a Merc who's one objective is to track and 
 kill a weapons dealer by the name of Kurtz... I mean, "The Jackal." You go all over Africa looking 
 for hints, clues, and leads to get to your prey. Along the way you will do quests for various people 
 and factions all for more info pertaining to The Jackal. Like I said... Heart of Darkness, just 
 not as good.
  
  What Farcry 2 does is gives you a 50 square km African playground to cause all sorts of havoc in. 
 You'll traverse the wilderness in search of your objectives, camps, diamonds, supplies, ect. Each 
 fight you come across can be strategically planned out or you can go in guns blazing and blow everyone 
 to pieces. If you want to take the tactical way out you can cause an explosion near some amunition 
 causing it all to start going off and kill all those near it. Or you could snipe and wound someone 
 in order to get their comrade to come over and try to help not knowing he's gonna get sniped to. 
 OR you can start a fire and just let that burn everything down. Seemingly the combinations of what 
 you can do to achieve your objectives is endless. 
  
  Another gameplay element that is somewhat of an annoyance is the fact you have Malaria. Every once 
 in a while you'll have to pop a pill to make the effects subside, and if you don't have any medicine 
 left, well you could be screwed. Also, if you take enough damage you'll have a critical point in 
 which you need to physically heal yourself (reset a bone, burn close a wound, pry a bullet out 
 of your arm, ect) or else you will die. If you do die, a "buddy" aka ally will come to pull you 
 out of the crossfire so you can heal and then help him/her fend off the rest of the attackers.
 
  
  Technically, Farcry 2 is way up there. It's no Crysis, but it's pretty damn close, and especially 
 for the consoles. Sometime new to consoles is the extensive, (and I mean extensive) map editor. 
 This is nothing new to PC players but a not gimped version of the editor for consoles is big news. 
 The first map I played ever in multiplayer was an awesome recreation of Gridlock from Gears of 
 War. 
  
  Overall, Farcry 2 is simply a great package. It's a great looking game that is infinity fun to 
 play. What else could you ask for? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: moonstrider101
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 23, 2008 8:07 am PT
Review:  Problems that I have encountered:
  
  -NO SPLIT SCREEN MULTIPLAYER OR CO-OP. I was waiting to play against my dad, but I found out that 
 this game doesn't have these options : (
  -Poor use of vibration in the controller. You will run around and feel your feet hitting the ground, 
 but not the rumble of a machine gun in your hand!
  -Destructible environment? Hardly anything is destructible and when you shoot at it, it doesn't 
 always break at the right spot. 
  -Malaria! The random flashing yellow screen gets really annoying : (
  -Soso AI. They aren't really 
 smart is all I can say.
  -TERRIBLE MOVEMENT! When it comes to Call of Duty 4 everything flows smoothly, but this game NOT 
 SO MUCH. If you play it you'll see what I mean.
  -Confusing map editor. (Just my opinion.)
  -Poor button controls. It's not the order of the controls rather than how hard you have to press 
 the button. It doesn't always detect that you are pressing the button  : (
  -Screen becomes blurry after you sprint for a while. Hurts your eyes. 
  -Boring story! Hardly 
 any point to it.
  -FAST TALKING! It sounds retarded that everyone talks fast just so you can play the game faster.
 
  -Sun and Moon look like a lantern beaming down on you. No detail in them whatsoever.
  -NO MELEE! It's just stupid that you have to switch to your sword to get someone at close range 
 without using your gun. 
  
  Is there anything I'm missing? Other then that the game is good : ( 
::::::

::::::
UserName: neubert81
Rating: 6
Date: Oct 23, 2008 6:55 am PT
Review:  I pre-ordered this game with high hopes. Through all of the trailers and interviews etc., I figured 
 that this would be a very nice and intuitive addition to the far cry series.
  Upon arrival to my home and the placement of the disk into the game console, I was soon entered 
 into the world of bore and tedium. 
  
  The graphics are so-so, the fire is the best part of the game, the weapons and armory feel like 
 I'm firing relatively large blow darts, and the enemy AI is simply frustrating. For instance, once 
 shot in the leg vicinity, they fall down, and then sit up to a kneel, you can then simply run around 
 them in circles while they are fixed in place. Yes, I understand he's been shot, but I don't understand 
 how this one can be completely immobilized while his buddy just took 5 rounds to the chest and 
 is hollering like a maniac blasting me away until his final breath. 
  
  Not to mention this malaria problem my character seems to be struggling with which is more of the 
 largest possible annoyance since locust season.
  
  This game lacks every ounce of immersion and insists upon you driving around across the gargantuan 
 map of sand and dirt and grass so you can look at it as you bump around in your ragged vehicle 
 to get where you need to go only to be told, after 15 minutes of driving (give or take another 
 10 if you get 'ambushed' or not for no real reason at all.) , that "It looks like the arms dealer 
 isn't here, I should come back another time"
  By this point, I was so frustrated and irate with my waste of time and money, that I turned it 
 off, and put Dead Space back in the drive.
  
  I went against my better judgment and bought a game that was intended for PC, it will be promptly 
 taken back today after work.
  
  Some of you may love it, which is why I suggest rental.
  For me, by far, largest disappointment as of late. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JDC92
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 23, 2008 5:11 am PT
Review:  ONLY PERFECT GAME OUT THERE!!!!!!! MUST BUY NOW!!! I THINK ANY RATING BELOW A 10 IS TOO LOW. It's 
 the most immersive, and amazing game ever made. It's not like any other game. You can do anything, 
 and it's so realistic. THE MAP EDITOR IS AMAZING, AND AWESOME, AND NOTHING ELSE COULD EVER BEST 
 THIS MAP EDITOR!!!!! Amazing graphics, amazing physics, amazing weather, amazing gameplay!!!!! 
 Burn anything, destroy anything, ride anything, shoot anything, go anywhere you want!!! BIGGER 
 MAP THAN OBLIVION!!!!!!! THATS CRAZY!!!!!!!! The ways you get injured in the game is something 
 ive never seen before. You can cut bullets out of your arm, break your arm, break your finger, 
 catch on fire..... ETC!!! The fire spreads so realistically and can burn anything thats burnable. 
 The weather, like wind, can blow objects in the direction the wind is blowing, the tree will lean, 
 if you shoot a branch off a tree, it will blow in the direction the windstorm is blowing. You can 
 play differently between day and night, and it has a 24 hour day and night cycle. The AI is amazing 
 also. The guns are great and there's a huge variety of them. The explosions look amazing too. THIS 
 GAME HAS TO GET GAME OF THE YEAR!!!!!! DEFINATELY A MUST BUY, DONT RENT, PROBABLY WORTH PAYING 
 $80 BUCKS IF YOU HAD TOO!!!!! THIS GAME DEFINATELY DESERVES A 10!!!!!!!! 10!!!!!!!!!! 10!!!!!!! 
 
  HOW COULD YOU GIVE THIS GAME BELOW A 10??? IF I COULD I WOULD GIVE IT A 12 OUT OF 10. 100% 
  
 NOTHING WILL BEAT THIS HIGHLY IMMERSIVE, REALISTIC, AMAZING GAME: FAR CRY 2!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: call4
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 23, 2008 2:00 am PT
Review:  This game is one of the best games i have ever played. its a free world + first person shooter. 
 You can't get much better then that. No linear game play. Its all up to you. the healing system 
 is the best i have ever seen in a game and seeing one of your buddies help you when your down is 
 just fantastic. The AI isn't as stupid as a post as in most games. they flank you, use tactics 
 and all that sort of stuff. The vehicles are nice and fun to drive. No plains but thats fine... 
 they still give you a glider. Full 24 hour cycle and only one thing to say about the fire, Spectacular! 
 this will be without a doubt be best game of the year for me. Its 50 square kilometers! thats bigger 
 then oblivion! over 30 guns. Some very nice ones. they dart rifle being my personal favorite. My 
 only complaint is that ill be failing my classes because i wont be able to stop playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: charma
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 22, 2008 9:40 pm PT
Review:  I just got done spending the first 3 hours playing the single-player campaign and think Far Cry 
 2 is just awesome. Your mission in the game is to take out a major arms dealer named 'The Jackal'. 
 Getting there will take you a while, with several side missions and story missions to finish throughout 
 the game.
  
  The Graphics:
  Simply awesome. This is the kind of graphics that you would expect from a game with 'Far Cry' in 
 its title. The art style and animations are done very well, and make the environment feel like 
 you are truly in Africa.
  
  The Sound:
  Great here too. There are a lot of environmental sound used in Far Cry 2 that helps to pull one 
 into the world. If you're in the jungle, you will hear normal jungle sounds (birds, monkeys, etc.) 
 You enter a town and you can faintly hear people talking. You get closer and you can actually overhear 
 their conversations. (Some of them are quite funny, too.)
  
  The beginning of the single-player game starts off with a tutorial mission to get you familiar 
 with the mechanics of the game. Once you are done, you can feel free to do missions for your buddies, 
 the weapons dealers, or for the factions. Doing these missions will advance your character in money, 
 items and status with the people you're doing the missions for.
  
  The world is BIG, so be prepared for an adventure. You will have to drive around a bit to get where 
 you need to go. Missions will have you go to a part of the map, which is brought up in front of 
 you while you're walking or driving. Unfortunately there is not much interaction with the map, 
 so you can zoom in and scroll around. Instead I guess it's more like holding a real map. hmm. Anyway, 
 I found it will take some getting use to getting around.
  
  Are you looking for a great FPS on the 360? If you liked the first Far Cry, you will no doubt like 
 this one. The environments, the action, the story -- and not to mention the multiplayer and the 
 level editor, which I haven't even touched yet -- are excellent and will provide hours and hours 
 of fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: elvisbond
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 22, 2008 8:55 pm PT
Review:  I would suggest buying this game for the map editior alone. Its like forge mode, on sertriods x1000. 
 The level of custimization is by far the best ive seen in any map ediditor on a console game. Speaking 
 of the console: Xbox 360, it runs great. Killer graphics and a solid frame rate would make this 
 game win. It has the graphics, but i noticed on some of the physics explosions, theres a lag, and 
 going in and out of edit mode, has a longer wait than what seems nessciary. The campiagn is a good 
 beggining, then gets a little strange, but is good. Multiplayer, is good for the user created maps, 
 but thats about it. In the end, this game is a definite buy for me, but might not be for others. 
 Some cools features that put the game over the top: the fire propogation (spelt wrong...: fire 
 spreads relistically) , and regrowth, its cool too see the trees regrow, lol. And those sunsets, 
 they looks great in this game. Just a note: im usally good at games, Gears: hardcore... Halo: legendary.. 
 but this game i started on easy, and its hard! as i got used to it i moved to normal though. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ninjaman5531
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 22, 2008 6:54 pm PT
Review:  All right so right off the bat you're in the back of a jeep with a cab driver talking to you about 
 the current situation in Africa. When you reach your destination you'll find your character has 
 malaria. 
  
  I'll stop there not to spoil anything but you should get the point that this game is not a walk 
 in the park. This game is hard probably on the edge of hard and very hard but you'll still have 
 fun despite dying a lot (unless you're on easy which you won't die as much) .
  
  The worst part I found in this game is the driving. To me it's not bad because I love seeing the 
 beautiful job the develepors did making this game.
  
  The best part in my opinion is the gunplay. This is probably one of the best gunplay games ever. 
 It sounds like its real. And with weapon reliability it makes it feel even more realistic.
  
  ok I know i didnt say much because there is a lot to be said about this game (good things) .
 
  
  If you like long single player campaigns and great multyplayer made better by mapmaker than this 
 is a for sure buy for you even with all the other great games coming out this fall. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marcod1
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 29, 2008 2:45 pm PT
Review:  Man, I really wanted to LOVE this game. Couldn't wait. Once home, I repped the package apart, slipped 
 the disk in and was immediately brought into the backseat of a Jeep, deiven around by an african 
 Taxi Driver. I immediately loved the game and couldn't wait to get my hands on an AK-47 and raise 
 hell.
  
  The End.
  
  Well, not exactly, but right away I was given an instruction menu and list of things to do and 
 remember that it took all the wind out of my sail. 
  
  I don't want to give away spoils or anything but the open access roaming around can get really 
 repetitive and monotonous. The GPS/Map takes up the whole screen while your driving (walking) . 
 Just to get from point A to B is not only frustrating but boring. Frustrating, meaning you have 
 yo use your GPS to see where your going. The problem is that it takes up the whole screen so you 
 have to keep opening and closing the map/gps screen to "inch" your way to your destination. Minor 
 Gripe? You'll see 
  
  The missions are so far stupid, like picking up a wrentch and turing a few screws to get a car 
 to turn over and start running. Why not just have a working car. I'm ready to kick some $%^$# and 
 I'm fixing a damn car. Man, it sounds like these are real petty, but if you haven't played the 
 game, rent it first and if these things don't bother you, you probably will like the game. 
  
  The graphics are pretty good. Almost too good if that's possible. WHat I mean is if I need 
 to go to a access point and don't have wheels I have to walk or run. The layout of the Afican landscape 
 is so detailed that I feel like I am actually walking the whole mile or 2 just to get there in 
 actual time. That means you're going to do ALOT of walking. At first it was cool to survey the landscape 
 but you will get bored of ths real quick. This is Africa, not a city where at least you can see 
 different things unlike dirt roads, grass, and rocks. 
  
  Anyway, there are some good things such as the weaponery and at least the graphics are good. If 
 the graphics weren't great, this game would be a total disaster.
  
  I'm mixed on the game and wished I was giving a better review but oh well 
  
  
  
  NOW THE 
 UPDATE:
  
  I couldn't go any further with this game. It is a BOREFEST !! After logging about 30+ hours I can 
 definitely say that this game never got any more fun or interesting from the original mission. 
 
  
  Traded in for FallOut. Took a nice $30 trade in hit. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JB2B
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 23, 2008 12:48 am PT
Review:  I was very much looking forward to this game. I even hyped myself up by reading almost every preview 
 I could find on the internet. And yesterday finally came the day I could play Far Cry 2. 
  When I first ran the game I didn't know where to start. Should I check out the multi-player, start 
 with the campaign or maybe check out the map editor.
  
  I chose the last. The map editor is as easy as an editor can be. I mean, every fool with a bit 
 of time can make a map. And even if you don't have time you can because of the 'Wilderness Generator'. 
 This nice tool creates a map for you (with trees, textures and moutains) . The only thing you have 
 to do is throw in some roads, vehicles and buildings. Oh yeah and set the time of day. This last 
 thing is very cool because you can see the shadows sliding down the ground as you make it later 
 or earlier.
  
  And then.... The campaign. The game starts with a car drive through the imense landscape. Your 
 driver also has to pay of some guards by promissing them some beer on the way back. Then when you 
 arive in town you collapse because of the malaria you've caught. When waking up, your Target, the 
 Jackal is in your room talking to you. When he leaves you get up and get out of bed. 
  I immediately walked straight into a firefight. I killed some guys, ran to the other side of the 
 street and then fell down. The light fades and then I was gone. Not dead, even though I thought 
 I they got me. I woke up in a room with some APR guy standing over me. The APR guy said I had killed 
 some of his men, but he was impressed so he gave me a mission. And that's where the fun really 
 starts.
  I had to secure some safe house which I later could use to save the game or rest. First I had to 
 fix a car to drive to the place. When I came there someone saw me and shot at me. But I escaped. 
 And while the guards where checking out my car, I sneaked behind them and shot them.
  
  Do you remember watching the movie Apocalypse Now. Well sometimes you feel like you'r in this (kind 
 of) movie. Especially when listening to tapes with The Jackal his voice on it. 
  
  With a technically 'revolutionairy' or I better say technically 'evolutionairy' game like Far Cry 
 2 I'm always a bit concerned with the gameplay. Maybe the whole previewing world is more blown 
 away by the tech archivement than by the gameplay, but didn't find that out untill the review. 
 Don't be affraid as I can say: Far Cry 2 is great fun to play. Not only do the graphics look very 
 nice, the dynamic environment adds a lot of fun. You can blow up a lot of thing. And then there 
 is the fire. 
  When in the map editor I made a map with a lot of vegatation and threw a molatov cocktail in it, 
 just to see how the fire spreads. It's awesome and might proof a great tactical weapon in both 
 soleplayer as well as in multi-player.
  
  Conclusion:
  Far Cry 2 is just what I expected. The graphics look great. I've seen better graphics on the 360, 
 but then again. Those graphics where stretched through some corridors and this are streched out 
 of 50 sqaure km. The weapons are diverse and are not out of place in the setting. The sound effects 
 sound very good and when you're in for example the jungle, it makes you feel like you're really 
 in the jungle. The dynamic environments are cool just like the dynamic weather system. 
  Some people who where lucky enough to play the game before I did (#%@#^) wrote that FPS will never 
 be the same again. I don't agree. While this is a nice evolution and absolutely a landmark in FPS 
 dev, it's basically just a 'new kind' of FPS. 
  
  A kind of FPS I started to love.
  
  Please devs give us at least the ability to make single player maps. And for Far Cry 4. Co-op of 
 course.
  
  And now while I'm at work, I will be counting down untill I can play again.
  
  I would like to end by saying: If you like guns, you like Africa, you like freedom. This is 
 your game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xfootballx
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 21, 2008 2:07 pm PT
Review:  This game is one of the best games i have ever played. its a free world + first person shooter. 
 You can't get much better then that. No linear game play. Its all up to you. the healing system 
 is the best i have ever seen in a game and seeing one of your buddies help you when your down is 
 just fantastic. The AI isn't as stupid as a post as in most games. they flank you, use tactics 
 and all that sort of stuff. The vehicles are nice and fun to drive. No plains but thats fine... 
 they still give you a glider. Full 24 hour cycle and only one thing to say about the fire, Spectacular! 
 this will be without a doubt be best game of the year for me. Its 50 square kilometers! thats bigger 
 then oblivion! over 30 guns. Some very nice ones. they dart rifle being my personal favorite. My 
 only complaint is that ill be failing my classes because i wont be able to stop playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sZZZlepy_101
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 21, 2008 3:16 am PT
Review:  Pros: 
  superior action game play 
  engaging storyline
  visuals that qualifies to contend with Crysis.
  realism can speak of it self 
  best looking 
 console game up to date!
  you can do the craziest things with the map editor
  
  Cons: 
  
  don't feel like playing other releases 
  
  
  
  Story 
  
  You may pick a different 
 variety of characters from different back grounds and ethnicity before embarking on a journey to 
 hunt for the malevolent weapons dealer known as the Jackal.
  
  Setting 
  
  Say bye bye to the tropical lushes of its predecessor and hello Africa! If you've seen the movie 
 blood diamond it may have some similarities with the gameplay experience. 
  
  Graphics 
  the game features many realistic form of visuals such as real time vegetation physics especially 
 the breathtaking weather cycle. One example is the fire spreading domino effect when you burn vegetation. 
 
  
  gameplay
  The game gives you a GTA/oblivion like experience to complete your missions. In most stages you'll 
 embark your self from aggressive gun battles to navigating around the African bush.
  
  bottomline 
  U. B. I soft kept their promises after all! 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
