-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: FIFA Street 3
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/xbox360/sports/fifastreet3/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Great visual style.
 Good multiplayer options.
 Another superb soccer soundtrack from EA Trax.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Not enough single-player content.
 Repetitive gameplay.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Mar  6, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.5
Critic Score: 6.5, 49 Review (s)
User Score: 6.5, 300 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: EA Sports
Genre: Soccer
Date: Feb 18, 2008
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
FIFA Street 3 has plenty of style but not quite enough substance to justify the price of admission. 
 

  In the world of FIFA Street, soccer isn't just about scoring more goals than your opponent; it's 
 about humiliating your opponent at every opportunity. FIFA Street 3 from EA Sports Big pits teams 
 of both contemporary and classic soccer stars against each other in matches played all over the 
 world, taking in some unusual locations that have an impact on the gameplay along the way. The 
 action is fast-paced and fun for a while, especially when you pit your skills against other players', 
 but the single-player options are very limited and the absence of a team-building career mode is 
 disappointing.  

  FIFA Street 3 makes a great first impression; the menus are slick, the licensed soundtrack of more 
 than 30 songs is a perfect fit, and the colorful cartoon art style works really well. Well over 
 200 soccer stars appear as playable caricatures in FIFA Street 3, and they look great running around 
 the game's seven different locations. There's no end-to-end camera option from which to view the 
 action unfortunately, which is fine if you're used to playing traditional soccer games horizontally, 
 but odd given that it was the default view in FIFA Street 2. Locations in FIFA Street 3 include 
 a beachside parking lot, a playground, an oil rig, and a Tokyo rooftop among others, and each of 
 them offers a slightly different experience. Every playing field in FIFA Street 3 is enclosed by 
 walls or fences of some kind, but because those walls and fences vary so much in height and design, 
 they impact the gameplay. The ball is less likely to go out of play if the field is enclosed by 
 tall walls with no windows cut into them, for example, and you can bounce the ball off walls and 
 fences to perform some unorthodox tricks and passes.  

           Each of the seven locales offers a slightly different experience.      

  There's no 
 shortage of spectacular moves to perform in FIFA Street 3, but you might be surprised to learn 
 that the game actually downplays these in favor of realism for the most part. Few of the tricks 
 that you perform using the right analog stick would look horribly out of place during a regular 
 soccer match if they were performed far less frequently, and it's really only while in gamebreaker 
 mode or when running up and along walls that some of the moves border on unbelievable. With that 
 said, FIFA Street 3 fudges its ball physics pretty frequently. It's not nearly as noticeable as 
 it has been in previous entries in the series, but there are definitely occasions when the ball 
 appears to have a mind of its own and seems more concerned with making a trick animation work than 
 with behaving convincingly. The same can be said of players falling victim to tricks, since they're 
 sometimes required to spread their legs apart or even stumble to the ground for the canned two-character 
 animations to work. The tricks look good, but it's frustrating to have one of your players be taken 
 out of your control just so he can get beaten.  

  Unlike previous FIFA Street games, the Xbox 360 and PS3 versions of FIFA Street 3 don't award you 
 points for performing tricks or for beating opponents. As a result, there are no matches in which 
 the winner is determined by the number of trick points scored. This is unfortunate given the lack 
 of variety on offer here, because while there are some different rules you can play by, your objective 
 is always to score more goals than your opponent. Matches in which you can score only with headers 
 or volleys, or in which gamebreakers aren't permitted don't really do enough to keep things interesting 
 for long, and matches without time limits can be painful if you're up against tough opposition. 
 For example, matches typically last between five and 10 minutes, but the final match of the single-player 
 street challenge mode -- in which you have to score eight gamebreakers against a team of classic 
 all-star players -- took us almost 45 minutes to win.  

  If you're playing FIFA Street 3 solo, the street challenge mode is the only option you have other 
 than setting up individual matches. Rather than being sorted by country, the players in street 
 challenge mode are grouped into teams that are themed after their play styles, their builds, and 
 even by the brands that they're affiliated with. You can unlock 25 of these teams as you progress 
 through the mode's 30-plus challenges, and then they're available for use in multiplayer games. 
 The difficulty curve in street challenge mode is nigh on perfect, though even the artificial intelligence 
 of the toughest teams you come up against can be exploited to some extent. Having your defensive 
 players pass the ball around among themselves at the back while your opponents' gamebreaker bar 
 ticks down and only one of them attempts to retrieve the ball is easy to do, for example.      
     Gamebreakers don't guarantee goals, but they make scoring a lot easier.      

  Multiplayer competition is where FIFA Street 3 is at its best. Both the Xbox 360 and PlayStation 
 3 versions support up to eight players online, and on a single console they support four and seven 
 players, respectively. Multiplayer options include all of the same match types that feature in 
 the street challenge mode, as well as a fun "playground picks" mode in which both team captains 
 take it in turns to choose a player from the same national squad to form their five-man team before 
 kickoff. When playing online there's also a "world challenge" mode in which results from players 
 using the 18 national teams featured in the game are used to generate a league table of sorts. 
 Searching for opponents online rarely took us more than a few minutes, though using the filter 
 to find players of a similar skill level often just presented us with a message stating that no 
 matches could be found. Very few of the matches that we played suffered from any lag, and even 
 when they did it wasn't enough to be detrimental to the gameplay.  

  In case you're wondering about the differences between the Xbox 360 and PS3 versions of FIFA Street 
 3, there really aren't many. The PS3 version's player models have jagged edges where their Xbox 
 360 counterparts are pretty smooth, and we noticed a couple of stutters in the frame rate on the 
 PS3; but they're essentially the same game. The Xbox 360 version features achievement points, of 
 course, and to earn the full 1,000 you'll have to prove yourself in street challenge mode, online, 
 and against at least one other player on the same console.  

  FIFA Street 3 plays a more enjoyable game of street soccer than any of its predecessors, but the 
 lack of anything resembling a career mode with player and team progression really hurts the single-player 
 experience. This year's game ultimately marks an unfortunate victory for style over substance, 
 but at least it was a close contest.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (12 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: toolzz360
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 31, 2008 1:54 pm PT
Review:  EA has been making street sports games for a little while now, and Fifa Street 3 is the best entry 
 in the entire street universe by far.
  
  Fifa Street 3 is hardcore street footy with 5 on 5 matches in various locations such as the beach, 
 a oil rig, and a jungle. The game is incredibly simple and very easy to dive right in and play. 
 The control scheme in the game allows this pick up and play mentality, and very much more so than 
 previous entries in the series. The left analog stick moves the selected player, and the B button 
 shoots and the x button crosses the ball. These are the same basic controls as the regular Fifa 
 game, and if you have played one of those before there is a good chance you will beat most of the 
 competition in Fifa Street 3. The real gameplay comes in the form of trick execution and there 
 are plenty of moves to pull off. The Y button on the control flicks the ball in the air, and continuous 
 presses causes the player to juggle the ball. The right analog stick controls the other set of 
 tricks which are ball feints and clever foot maneuvers. The tricks are incredibly simple to pull 
 off, and you will be performing them in no time.
  
  Fifa Street 3 feels cheap at many points in the game. The easiest thing to do to ensure a goal 
 nearly every time is to juggle the ball right in front of the net and shoot as the ball is in the 
 air. The goalies basically do not even attempt to stop these shots, and using this technique feels 
 a lot like cheating the game. The analog tricks for the most part do not lead to goals, but they 
 fill up the gamebreaker meter nicely. When this meter is full you can unleash a powerful gamebreaker 
 mode, where nearly every shot is an instant goal. The gamebreaker provides a good change of pace, 
 but you can easily fill up the meter too many times in a match.
  
  There are many different types of matches in Fifa Street. Besides normal matches there are matches 
 were you need to reach a goal limit first such as 5 goals, gamebreakers only matches where a goal 
 only counts when in gamebreaker mode, headers and volley matches where a goal only counts if you 
 head the ball or shoot off a volley, and plain 5 on 5 matches with no gamebreakers. There is a 
 basic single player mode called Fifa Street Challenge. Here you progress a ladder of events with 
 3-5 events per challenge. The challenges were all very easy, and the entire single player game 
 only took a few hours. The meat of the game rests online, as there will be close matches everytime 
 as compared to destroying the computer all game. There are still plenty of people playing online 
 also.
  
  The graphics if Fifa Street are just average or slightly below average, and many of the players 
 look nothing like the real life counter parts. The sound in the is ok just because the soundtrack 
 is decent, but all of the other sounds in the game including the stupid robotic announcer is incredibly 
 lame.
  
  Overall Fifa Street when boiled down is a very fun game to play with friends, but really doesn't 
 function as a single player game. Its a good buy with the game being cheap enough, and people still 
 playing online. Overall Fifa Street 3 gets a 7.5/10.
  
  Achievement difficulty. 2/10. Extremely Easy 1250 points. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MEANMACHINE15
Rating: 6
Date: Sep 7, 2008 7:19 am PT
Review:  Unlike fifa street 1&2 number 3 has graced our gaming in a different fashion which lets ea know 
 that this game is not big like it says. unlike other street games that have had such success like 
 NBA street games aswell ans NFL street games which wasnt that great had a go at making a revelutiuoinary 
 game that can help them go back to the drawing board and help them think about there next move 
 i think that fifa really have hit the hurdle in the race for gold as this title really hasnt worked 
 for them.
  
  The graphics aren't as good as the ones on the ps2 but they had a go and have bitten the dust like 
 queen sang so many years ago and that song has told the sorry story for fifa and the mistake that 
 they made by changing so many things that they didnt need to change.
  
  Gameplay is poor with bad movement and players dont look like what they should and shooting gets 
 annoying as even though every shot goes on target such things as tackling is a big asset that ruins 
 this games such as judo kicks in the air and floor kicks that dont even tackle right as it just 
 sweep the the dust off the floor.
  
  overall i think fifa need to learn to stop messin with there games by trying to change everything 
 and anything that they can and leave it as it is. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: abassler
Rating: 6
Date: Jul 3, 2008 7:04 pm PT
Review:  Why is there no career mode? Why? Why at harder difficulty levels does the game just become cheap. 
 Why can't EA make a decent game any more? 
  
  This game is only half decent the only reason its worth a six, (and believe me it borders on mediocre) 
 is because you can clearly see the potential the game could have had if the developers didn't stop 
 half way though.
  
  You will run past a guard be 5 feet away and then he will trip you. You will run parallel to a 
 defender who is standing still, and lose the ball. You will try to stand in their way and they 
 will grab the back of you head force you to into oral sex and then jump over you and score a goal. 
 The best strategy here is to just press X randomly Now that won't do anything either but its less 
 frustrating. The computer at higher difficulty levels will have the goalkeeper lob the ball half 
 way down the field to a player who immediately scores. You have very little control over who you 
 throw the ball too just directional control so the ball will be intercepted quite a bit, the computer 
 also does this. The ball will sometimes go through walls that it shouldn't. When you change players 
 it supposedly selects the one nearest the ball that isn't true it only does that half the time. 
 The goal tender is retarded. Your teammate are retarded too and don't follow the play very well. 
 
  
  If it sounds really bad that's kinda because it is, If this were a game designed to be played for 
 a long time like Madden is it would just be unplayable. If your a huge soccer fan you probably 
 be disappointed, If you don't like soccer than you don't care at all. If you have an appreciation 
 for soccer and just want an NBA Jam like Arcade soccer game, then here it is. In five minute bursts 
 playing against the computer or against friends this game shines but it isn't more than that. Check 
 bargain bins if your interested. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: adakin01
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jun 1, 2008 5:09 am PT
Review:  Good football skills with all the international footballers of today but with kiddy cartoon graphics 
 is what i have to say about this game and that is why i have only gave it a 6.5!!!
  
  Yet only this game is kiddyish it also has some insane skills and a nice new way to play gamebreakers 
 as the more skills you do depends on how long your gamebreaker will last. 
  
  i would'nt reccomend this to a freind as it is probably a waste of money but because i am a mad 
 football and fifa street fan i thought i might aswell get this game and give other readers of this 
 review a taste of the baby graphics and insane skills it has.
  
  skills will consist of nutmegs, around the worlds, flip flops, headers, overhead kicks and also 
 the well known most football fans can do it they are kick ups. the new skill which no-one i meen 
 no-one does in football is running up a wall with a ball for some unknown reason to make the game 
 look good. i meen it should of been a gymnastic game.
  
  overall: Rubbish 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nafimuhd
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 6, 2008 2:49 am PT
Review:  CREDITS TO Gamakarmica
  
  
  First off, I love a good soccer game. There is no sport known to man that gives the greatest sense 
 of physical and strategic prowess that a good game of soccer (or futbol) brings. Winning Eleven 
 used to be the prime place for a great game of videogame soccer, but this past year FIFA Soccer 
 08 wowed everyone with excellent graphics, physics and depth.
  The same can't be said for arcade soccer games. In fact, the only two games I can really come up 
 with that are decent is Sensible World of Soccer and Mega Man Soccer (yes, you heard that right) . 
 This is especially troubling since FIFA Street has been kicking around for a couple of years and, 
 honestly, has done a poor job of bringing an accessible game of style soccer.
  The great news (if you want to call it that) is that FIFA Street 3 is the most playable version 
 of the FIFA Street series. Unlike the abhorrations that were the first two games, the animation 
 is smooth and the environments are rich in color and culture. The game has also recieved a gameplay 
 boost in the terms of a well made trick system, which utilizes juggles, swipes, headers and bicycle 
 kicks through volleys.
  Every character is well detailed with the style of the game. Also, the iconography of all the players 
 makes it easy to make a decent strategy throughout each match.
  That is, if the game has a "strategy". The game is fast paced and trick filled, however, scoring 
 is little more than who can get the bicycle kick, header or gamebreaker out first. 
  This is due to defense being so basic and rudimentary. The NBA Street series, which is based off 
 nearly the same engine as this game, combines not only great moves to pull on offense, but also 
 some excellent counter strategies to use when you're on defense, making the game even. This is 
 nowhere near as bad as NFL Tour, but the fact that defense is so easy to exploit makes winning 
 matches either painfully easy or feeling very cheap.
  This problem is sort of better when going against someone else online or right next to you, but 
 the exploit is still there nonetheless.
  Unless you are a huge soccer nut who needs a good game of arcade futbol, a rental will suffice 
 to beat the main mode and do some fun online matches. Otherwise, this game won't keep you thrilled 
 for long. It's a good game and a vast improvement over the last two games, but it should be on 
 par with the NBA Street series, which it unfortunately isn't. This series has quite a way to go. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamakarmica
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 12, 2008 10:40 pm PT
Review:  First off, I love a good soccer game. There is no sport known to man that gives the greatest sense 
 of physical and strategic prowess that a good game of soccer (or futbol) brings. Winning Eleven 
 used to be the prime place for a great game of videogame soccer, but this past year FIFA Soccer 
 08 wowed everyone with excellent graphics, physics and depth.
  The same can't be said for arcade soccer games. In fact, the only two games I can really come up 
 with that are decent is Sensible World of Soccer and Mega Man Soccer (yes, you heard that right) . 
 This is especially troubling since FIFA Street has been kicking around for a couple of years and, 
 honestly, has done a poor job of bringing an accessible game of style soccer.
  The great news (if you want to call it that) is that FIFA Street 3 is the most playable version 
 of the FIFA Street series. Unlike the abhorrations that were the first two games, the animation 
 is smooth and the environments are rich in color and culture. The game has also recieved a gameplay 
 boost in the terms of a well made trick system, which utilizes juggles, swipes, headers and bicycle 
 kicks through volleys.
  Every character is well detailed with the style of the game. Also, the iconography of all the players 
 makes it easy to make a decent strategy throughout each match.
  That is, if the game has a "strategy". The game is fast paced and trick filled, however, scoring 
 is little more than who can get the bicycle kick, header or gamebreaker out first. 
  This is due to defense being so basic and rudimentary. The NBA Street series, which is based off 
 nearly the same engine as this game, combines not only great moves to pull on offense, but also 
 some excellent counter strategies to use when you're on defense, making the game even. This is 
 nowhere near as bad as NFL Tour, but the fact that defense is so easy to exploit makes winning 
 matches either painfully easy or feeling very cheap.
  This problem is sort of better when going against someone else online or right next to you, but 
 the exploit is still there nonetheless.
  Unless you are a huge soccer nut who needs a good game of arcade futbol, a rental will suffice 
 to beat the main mode and do some fun online matches. Otherwise, this game won't keep you thrilled 
 for long. It's a good game and a vast improvement over the last two games, but it should be on 
 par with the NBA Street series, which it unfortunately isn't. This series has quite a way to go. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darkblaster20
Rating: 2.5
Date: Mar 10, 2008 8:38 pm PT
Review:  IMPOSIBLE... una de las grandes razones por la cual compre una consola nextgen, fue por la saga 
 de fifa, incluyendo los simuladores y fifa street por supuesto, cuando escuche de este fifa street 
 3 no pude dormir de lo emocionado que estaba y de como lo harian, creanme que no me hubiera gustado 
 levantarme y ver la lastima de juego que es.
  
  POR FAVOR!!! estilo caricatura???? lo que gano pocos puntos valiosos de las secuelas anteriores 
 fue que mantuvieron una realidad y calidad de los jugadores como lo son en la actualidad, con increibles 
 trucos de habilidad PERO QUE LOS HUMANOS LO PUEDEN HACER, no todos pero si los profesionales de 
 calidad (kaka, C. ronaldo, Robinho, etc) y eso es lo mas lamentable de este juego... Acaso creian 
 que por caminar en la pared o por hacer piruetas increibles e imposible de hacer en la vida real 
 lograriamos o nos gustaria comprar este estupido juego??? que bajo han caido eabig, realmente bajo 
 y si que no nos conocen.
  
  Bueno la verdad si les gustan estos juegos solo sea a los ninios o a los que no saben ni pepa lo 
 que es futbol pero a los fanaticos con estas babosadas de juego no nos van a enganiar, aparte de 
 esto, la modalidad del juego es igual a la de fifa street 1 o 2, no hay nada de sorpresas, excepto 
 algunos detalles que no hacen mas que desequilibrar la balanza y el motor del juego. TOTALMENTE 
 INACEPTABLE !!! yo no pago ni $5 por este juego y si me lo regalaran, no lo jugaria, lo vendiera 
 y me compro fifa 08 mejor.
  
  Decepionante... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: paulomello2006
Rating: 5
Date: Mar 7, 2008 7:16 pm PT
Review:  EA just disappointing...
  
  Whe everyone expects real caracters using nextgen shadder model, they appears white poor caracters 
 in cartoon style design.
  The results:
  A new game with old style, or an old style game design under a nextgen platform, wasting resources.
 
  
  In comparison with Fifa Street 2 on PS2, considering the generation of PS2 console, the graphics 
 on the Xbx360 are so bad.
  The game is more real on the PS2 version, that the new vers. on Xbox360
  
  Controls and sound 
 are great, but it lacked an option to change the musics during the game, an radio option like Fifa 
 Street 2 in PS2.
  The musics during the gameplay dont change, and turns it nauseates.
  
  So, this game disappointing and are so far from next gen capabalities, if you expect realistic 
 game.... dont pay much to prove it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KeybladeHolder
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 2, 2008 1:18 pm PT
Review:  FIFA Street 3 is a great game but it still has some faults. First, the positives are that the game 
 has that Street feel. It has amazing tricks, goals, and atmosphere. The international soundtrack 
 lends a good vibe to the game. It has the international teams as well as some street teams made 
 of some of the best players in soccer. The environments range from a rooftop to an oil rig and 
 a shipyard among others. The gamebreaker is on a time limit and not every shot taken will result 
 in a goal. This can make for some exciting matches. The faults that the game has are as follows. 
 Firstly, soccer fans might find it odd that Argentina is not in the game. Next, I have yet to play 
 the game online but I heard that people can easily quit a game if they are losing. This can result 
 in wins being taken away from people who play the game fairly. All in all FIFA Street 3 is a great 
 game despite some flaws. Soccer fans should at least rent this game to see if they enjoy it or 
 not. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: csbbs
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 24, 2008 11:27 am PT
Review:  This Game is Gameplay Verry Good and Up Speed The Game.
  
  Ime Reapt The : geezbob Frined : Fifa Strret 3 is very similar to the past 2 in many ways. There 
 are some new game modes and some new tricks. For instance, when you perform tricks, the description 
 of the trick does not flash up under you player. There are little stars that show you how good 
 the trick was. The more stars that appear, the better the trick and the larger amount of the gamebreaker 
 meter fills up. You can add to the gamebreaker meter while in gamebreaker, which is a nice added 
 touch. There is also a new practice mode that lets you play as any team you've unlocked and just 
 play around with tricks and things like that. The game modes are very straight forward. There's 
 quick play, street challenge (different from others, no creating character) , Playground pick, ad 
 XBOX live. There are very few choices here, as you can see. The overall gameplay is pretty good. 
 As far as i've experienced, there are no major glitches. There are some nice added animations, 
 though. For instance, if your player is right in front of the ball when the opposing player kicks 
 it, he keels over for a second or two. One of the major flaws to this game is the music. After 
 about five games, you'll want to mute the game. If you have music saved on your XBOX, I'd recommend 
 using that. All in all, Fifa Street 3 brings a little more to the table than the first two, but 
 fails to expand on the gameplay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fieryginga
Rating: 5.5
Date: Feb 23, 2008 3:20 pm PT
Review:  streets games this is 1 of the worst. The main reason fr this is because of its poorly animated 
 graphics which appear cartoony which may put people off it. My oppinion is that this game is not 
 worth buying, if your interested in a football game you should be buying fifa 08. Another thing 
 that lets this game down is that it is so painfully repetative. I have to say that for the first 
 20 mins i played this game i realy started to get into it but after a while just got realy  
 If you still are thinking about buying this game please test it before you buy. And im sure in 
 a weak or 2 their will be so little sales from it that they will drop the game price be 1 3rd. 
 This game retails in most shops fr around 50 pounds which is silly. IFthis game was 20 pounds it 
 would be a good buy. Iwould never pay more than 25 pounds fr this game but il leave you 2 make 
 your own mind up 
::::::

::::::
UserName: geezbob
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 22, 2008 8:48 pm PT
Review:  Fifa Strret 3 is very similar to the past 2 in many ways. There are some new game modes and some 
 new tricks. For instance, when you perform tricks, the description of the trick does not flash 
 up under you player. There are little stars that show you how good the trick was. The more stars 
 that appear, the better the trick and the larger amount of the gamebreaker meter fills up. You 
 can add to the gamebreaker meter while in gamebreaker, which is a nice added touch. There is also 
 a new practice mode that lets you play as any team you've unlocked and just play around with tricks 
 and things like that. The game modes are very straight forward. There's quick play, street challenge 
 (different from others, no creating character) , Playground pick, ad XBOX live. There are very few 
 choices here, as you can see. The overall gameplay is pretty good. As far as i've experienced, 
 there are no major glitches. There are some nice added animations, though. For instance, if your 
 player is right in front of the ball when the opposing player kicks it, he keels over for a second 
 or two. One of the major flaws to this game is the music. After about five games, you'll want to 
 mute the game. If you have music saved on your XBOX, I'd recommend using that. All in all, Fifa 
 Street 3 brings a little more to the table than the first two, but fails to expand on the gameplay. 
 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
