-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: FIFA 06: Road to FIFA World Cup
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/xbox360/sports/fifa2006/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Recognizable players.
 Authentic uniforms and stadiums.
 Decent commentary.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 No club teams and only 72 international teams.
 Crowd looks like it was attacked by a Photoshop filter.
 Lacks many of the features found in the other console versions.
 Outdated online lobby system.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov 21, 2005
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6
Critic Score: 6.2, 56 Review (s)
User Score: 7.1, 1,270 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: EA Sports
Developer: EA Canada
Genre: Soccer Sim
Date: Nov 16, 2005
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
FIFA 06: Road to FIFA World Cup is inferior to this year's earlier FIFA games in almost every way, 
 and it's not a particularly good soccer game in its own right either. 

  When it arrived in stores last month, the Xbox version of FIFA 06 was undoubtedly EA Sports' best 
 soccer game to date. Now, less than two months later, FIFA 06: Road to FIFA World Cup has been 
 released for the Xbox 360, and the Xbox version of FIFA 06 is still EA Sports' best soccer game 
 to date. How can that be the case? At the very least, FIFA 06: Road to FIFA World Cup must be the 
 same game that was released for the Xbox but with better graphics, right? Wrong. FIFA 06: Road 
 to FIFA World Cup is inferior to its Xbox counterpart in just about every way imaginable, and is 
 undoubtedly one of the most disappointing games available for Microsoft's new console at launch. 

          There are no club teams in Road to FIFA World Cup, and many international sides are absent. 
     

  As its title suggests, FIFA 06: Road to FIFA World Cup's main gameplay mode tasks you with leading 
 an international soccer team through the qualification process to next year's World Cup competition 
 in Germany. There are no club teams in FIFA 06: Road to FIFA World Cup, so whereas the Xbox version 
 of FIFA 06 boasts a rough total of 500 teams for you to play with, the Xbox 360 game features just 
 72, more than 50 of which are from Europe. No fewer than 132 of the international teams that participated 
 in FIFA's preliminary qualification process for Germany 2006 are absent from FIFA 06: Road to FIFA 
 World Cup. The majority of you are unlikely to miss the likes of American Samoa, Chile, and Turkmenistan, 
 of course, but the upshot of their omission from the game is that the European qualification groups 
 are the only ones available in the Road to FIFA World Cup gameplay mode. If you want to qualify 
 for the World Cup as a team from outside Europe you can create custom groups, but it's simply not 
 possible to re-create the same qualification matches played by Brazil, Cameroon, or Japan in real 
 life. Also, you can't ever actually  play  in the World Cup; only qualify for it.  

  Assuming that you choose to play through the real-world qualifiers as a European team, you'll be 
 placed in a group with five or six other teams and be required to play each of them twice. Artificially 
 lengthening the Road to FIFA World Cup mode, though, are a number of mandatory friendly matches, 
 as well as two fictional tournaments. The additional games might be a worthwhile feature of the 
 qualification campaign if FIFA 06: Road to FIFA World Cup boasted something resembling FIFA 06's 
 team chemistry for you to consider, but it doesn't, so playing through them can feel like a bit 
 of a chore. With that said, you might want to beat each of the fictional tournaments at least once 
 if you end up in possession of a copy of FIFA 06: Road to FIFA World Cup, simply because doing 
 so is one of only a handful of unimaginative ways that you can earn gamerscore points for your 
 Xbox 360 player profile in the game. You'll also earn "road points" for your achievements in FIFA 
 06: Road to FIFA World Cup that, at least according to the instruction manual, can be used to unlock 
 a classic FIFA team, along with extra uniforms and soccer balls. There's no fan shop for you to 
 spend your points in like in FIFA 06, though, and unlocking the classic FIFA team, Adidas balls, 
 and such really doesn't appear to involve points at all.  

          You'll unlock bonus content as you progress, but not by spending your Road points.     
 

  In addition to the Road to FIFA World Cup mode, gameplay options for you and up to three friends 
 include custom leagues and tournaments, friendly matches, and online play via Xbox Live. FIFA 06: 
 Road to FIFA World Cup, like other Xbox Live games from Electronic Arts, uses an outdated lobby 
 system for matchmaking that's not nearly as good as Microsoft's own. How well the game performs 
 online after a match gets underway can vary according to your opponent, but to date we've experienced 
 only minimal lag during matches. We're also pleased to report that, because your ranking can be 
 affected if you disconnect from a game prematurely, we've yet to have a single opponent quit out 
 of a game because he or she was losing. There are no online tournament or league options in FIFA 
 06: Road to FIFA World Cup, but it's possible to view leaderboards that compare your own statistics 
 to those of the top 100 players, friends, or players in the same country as you.  

  If you're not feeling competitive, you might prefer to put your chosen team through its paces on 
 the practice ground, where you can choose to just kick a ball around or concentrate on set-piece 
 plays. A nice feature of the practice mode is that the teams wear practice uniforms that are quite 
 different to those they wear in competitive games -- though we should point out that only 10 of them 
 are authentic. You'll also get to knock a ball around in a dimly lit sports hall using a few players 
 from your favorite team during load times; incidentally, though, those 10 to 20 seconds before 
 kickoff might be better spent checking that you're not about to miss your favorite show on TV. 

  After you make it to the stadium, one of the first things you might notice is that FIFA 06: Road 
 to FIFA World Cup's visuals, although impressive at first glance, don't represent nearly as significant 
 an improvement over those of Xbox games as a number of the other Xbox 360 launch titles do (and 
 playing the game in HD does little to rectify this problem) . The stadiums are nicely detailed, 
 and many of the players are even more easily recognizable than their Xbox counterparts, but FIFA 
 06: Road to FIFA World Cup's bag of eye candy contains both sweets and sours, some of which taste 
 worse than you might think is even possible on the Xbox 360. When the camera zooms in on players, 
 for example, the strange ghosting effect that surrounds them will make you think you're suffering 
 from double vision. Things get even worse when the supporters are on camera, because, presumably 
 as a result of some horrific accident involving Photoshop filters, the assembled crowd appears 
 to be either horribly pixelated or the subject of a malfunctioning Magic Eye picture. We've tried 
 staring at the crowd until our eyes unfocus, even donning a pair of 3D glasses, but nothing seems 
 to work. Ironically, the subtle blurring of the players on the field when using the default camera 
 is very good. Other visual sours that you might notice in FIFA 06: Road to FIFA World Cup include 
 glitchy player hair, beige yellow cards, and cameras that occasionally take up positions behind 
 advertising hoardings and such during substitutions.  

  Inconsistent visuals aren't enough to completely ruin a game, of course, but there are a number 
 of other problems with FIFA 06: Road to FIFA World Cup that give the game a distinctly unfinished 
 feel. Even forgetting the fact that the game doesn't include a number of FIFA 06's best features, 
 such as the playing-style mechanic and the all-new FIFA lounge mode, FIFA 06: Road to FIFA World 
 Cup can be a real disappointment on the field. The ball physics are quite obviously fudged so that 
 the ball often gravitates toward players; players returning to their positions after a failed attack 
 make no attempt to get forward again if you regain possession of the ball in the attacking third; 
 and on more than one occasion, we scored a goal and had it go unnoticed by the linesman, the referee, 
 the crowd, the commentary team, and... well, everyone, really. The problem of players being reluctant 
 to attack can be addressed to some extent by clicking the right analog stick and switching to an 
 all-out attack mentality. The same control is used to switch to an all-out defense mentality, though, 
 and the only way to know which one you're using is by observing your players' movements. The frame 
 rate also takes a serious nosedive during replays, for some reason.  

          Players are often a little too quick to give up in the attacking third.     

  The commentary 
 in FIFA 06: Road to FIFA World Cup comes courtesy of Sky Sports' Andy Gray and Martin Tyler, and 
 it's both entertaining and accurate for the most part. Some of the trivia that the commentators 
 come out with when there's a lull in the action is quite interesting, but after hearing them talk 
 about England's World Cup defeat at the hands of Brazil or praising Ashley Cole for the umpteenth 
 time, you'll wish that there were an option to exclude trivia items from the commentary the same 
 way that you can omit individual songs from the eclectic soundtrack.  

  At the end of the day, FIFA 06: Road to FIFA World Cup plays a passable game of soccer and is definitely 
 fun when played against the right human opposition. There's not a lot of single-player content 
 here, though, and the fact that the game is inferior to this year's PlayStation 2 and Xbox games 
 in so many ways makes it nigh on impossible to recommend.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (104 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: MYSTROW1
Rating: 4
Date: Nov 22, 2007 8:21 am PT
Review:  The game is not 360 worthy. The whole presentation in this game is terribal. The game itself is 
 a medeocore football game at best. the fans in the game suck and are n64 graphics. There is cardboard 
 fans. No the fans that are cardboard are better looking than this. The game itself has xbox 1 graphics. 
 The gameplay it back and forward. If you need a football game pick up the new one for xbox that 
 is fifa 08. EA has gotten lazy in there games. Don't waste time on this garbage. The worst part 
 about the game is it could have been good if you cleaned up the presentation and you actually make 
 the controls so it can be a 3 button football game. im dont like football games much but this a 
 seriously rubish game. and i just borrowed it to get the acheivements. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Oblivion-King
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 13, 2007 8:46 am PT
Review:  To be honest I am glad that this game was just average. Because it was just a taster for some of 
 the great football games to come.
  
  This game is short. Very short. And easy. Very easy.
  
  You can only play the road to the World 
 Cup, and not the World Cup itself. Disappointing, I know. It was just made to make more money really.
 
  
  The gameplay is pretty decent though, it does play like a typical Fifa game.
  
  However, do be aware that looking at Wayne Rooney's face can and possibly will scar you for life.
 
  
  Moving onto achievements and there are 5 available in this game. Each one has an average of 200 
 gamerscore points. EA are basically giving you the points for free, whereas in other games you 
 have to work really hard just to get 10 points.
  
  The multiplayer is probably the most fun you will get out of this game. Challenging your friends 
 is always great, and this is no exception.
  
  Finally without a doubt, the best feature of this game is the loading screen. Whilst the game is 
 loading you can have a kick around in a warehouse. Its good fun actually and you can play it for 
 as long as you like, and a feature being used in all Fifa games now.
  
  This game was good, but only just. We will forgive EA this time, and leave the game where it belongs: 
 on the shelf. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: miiiguel
Rating: 4.9
Date: Aug 14, 2007 3:22 am PT
Review:  Well, while waiting for the big names which are almost showing up, I got this title at a nice-value 
 . While at these quite cheap price it is worth a few laughs, if one wants to make a honest review 
 of this game, it has to refer it is very, very poor.
  Graphics lack any kinda personality, they have plastic and mechanical looks, we seem to be playing 
 with Ke-alike toys (and Barbies too) .
  Soundwise, and during gameplay it really sux bad, the crowd noise and cheers are mainly hiss'es. 
 Soundtrack is quite above average with some catchy/easy tunes, but 360 lets you play the CD you 
 want so it isn't much of a plus.
  Playability is... laughable, if one have played Pro Evo. And it's kinda ok... in a ridicule perpective.
 
  Online is sluggish, so sluggish! Like the players (Barbies and Kens) are allways with hicups (again, 
 good on the laughable matter) .
  Presentation and production value, allthough not on par with the a real EA game is certainly above 
 average, with some well placed menus, and some decent looks.
  All in all at this price I'm still glad I bought it, for historical reasons, at least. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: paulo111
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jul 22, 2007 6:21 am PT
Review:  FIFA 06: Road To the FIFA Cup is one of the best football games ever! The graphics are extremely 
 good, although all the players seem to have slightly shiny heads! Most of the players look like 
 their real-life counterparts, especially the major players like Beckham and Ronaldinho. The sound 
 is very realistic, the atmosphere feels like it is a real match. The commentary is, as usual, unbelievably 
 poor! They say the same things over and over again and get boring about one minute into your first 
 match. Go to the options and turn them off before you lose your sanity! The gameplay is quite good, 
 it is realistic and it is not too easy to score. I would definitely recommend this game, especially 
 now as you can get it quite cheap! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drum_228
Rating: 1.9
Date: Jun 26, 2007 11:21 am PT
Review:  This game is really really bad - I havent had a sports game (football game anyway) since I think 
 FIFA 99', or something like that... I hated the game - and it put me off ever having another FIFA 
 game. But today my brother went out and brought this, so I tried it hoping it was better... It 
 was not! It was so so bad, I really don't like it... I dont even think I can be bothered to complete 
 it for the GP! STEER CLEAR! Only FIFA or EA fanboys should have this game! (even then I wouldnt 
 blame them for not having it!) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nutta27
Rating: 3
Date: Jun 19, 2007 6:22 am PT
Review:  Story: Well as you well know this is a football game so has no and needs no real storyline. The 
 RTWC mode see's you take control of any country you like and try your best to get them to the world 
 cup.
  
  Gameplay: Well this game plays similar if not the same as any other fifa game you will have played 
 in the past. I am not a fan of the fifa games i should say i feel that they are too slow and cluncky 
 in thier ball conrol. The season mode see's you take on i think 5 teams to try and come in the 
 top 2 in your group to reach the world cup. Along the way you also play 2 (i think) ficticious 
 tournements. These extra tournements i think were added to pad out a very short career mode, you 
 basicly play around 15 games and its over, you don't even get to see how you would fare in the 
 world cup, you play all the way to qualifying for it then that is that game over you have finished 
 the game.
  This was obviously an attempt for ea to make more money off of the world cup. The achievements 
 are also too easy, there is 6 in total all all can be got very easily.
  
  Graphics: The graphics are great, as they should be as this game was made just for the xbox 360. 
 The players look real although i feel they look little carttony at times. But still a solid looking 
 game, the best looking football game i have seen up to yet.
  
  Overall Judgement: I only reccomend this game if you need an easy 1000 points if not stay well 
 clear. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ricky-cubano
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 3, 2007 8:05 am PT
Review:  This game was amazing i never played it online though becase i was playing against my cousins alot 
 and whipping thier butts. But it was still exciting and it made me learn to play the game even 
 better so i can play in the world cup. I loved the game it was fun and exciting. The graphics was 
 freaking crazy cool and the gameplay for a soccer game amazing and the sound made me feel like 
 i was there. The commentators talked like real people they stuttered laugh and never really repeated 
 the same thing twice that much. To sum it all up he game was cool depending on how you setup your 
 game room. You have to have big screen HDTV (plasma) and surround sound all around you and a nice 
 cumfy char to seat to sit in. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blackthegame
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 18, 2007 6:11 pm PT
Review:  When it arrived in stores last month, the Xbox version of FIFA 06 was undoubtedly EA Sports' best 
 soccer game to date. Now, less than two months later, FIFA 06: Road to FIFA World Cup has been 
 released for the Xbox 360, and the Xbox version of FIFA 06 is still EA Sports' best soccer game 
 to date. At the very least, FIFA 06: Road to FIFA World Cup must be the same game that was released 
 for the Xbox but with better graphics, ye it is the same. but still the better graphics is the 
 only thing that can improve in a soccer game. you cant change the players, either can you change 
 the ball, or the way the players kick and run, you can only change the graphics, which is exactly 
 what they did. and for that i think this game diserves a 8.5 instead of a 6 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SparkeNutz
Rating: 5.2
Date: Dec 23, 2006 4:22 am PT
Review:  I was disappointed with this game. The game looks great, you can not take that away from it. The 
 part that sucks about it, and its a huge mistake, you need to buy a second game to get the same 
 game as Xbox! I got the Xbox version first and was very happy with it. I got the 360 version for 
 half price, and that is the only reason I got it. I would not have wasted my money if I had read 
 some reviews or had an opportunity to rent it first. Controls are solid and audio is great. I think 
 the game lacks the depth of the non 360 version. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: liverpoolraj
Rating: 3.6
Date: Dec 3, 2006 6:23 am PT
Review:  The graphics are the best thing about this game. The players look realistic but that is all I liked 
 about this game. The gameplay is annoying and repetitive. The tornoment is long but there is only 
 one and there is no season. It isnt expected to have a season but they could have thrown one in. 
 It gets boring after a short time and the gamepoints are easy to get seeming as there is only 5. 
 This is a poor first 360 football game and I would suggest Pro Evo 6 or FIFA 07. They should have 
 left it and put more effort into the other games. EA failed it is a shame 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hydrolite
Rating: 6.3
Date: Sep 16, 2006 8:27 pm PT
Review:  FIFA 06: Road to FIFA World Cup allows one of the most glorious events in all of the sports world 
 pass by without a proper tribute. Everything about this game screams of an unfinished and rushed 
 product that should have been much better. The game has many graphical blemishes, linear gameplay, 
 and is an overall inferior game to the previous installments of this noteable soccer franchise. 
 As the title suggests FIFA 06: Road to FIFA World Cup allows you to take your favorite international 
 team through the many qualifying tournaments that allow your club to participate in the World Cup. 
 At first glance you may see a deep and absorbing mode but upon further inspection is just a paper 
 thin excuse to play a sequence of matches that really don't have the passion that an event like 
 this should. Another major problem with this mode is the fact that you cannot actually play a single 
 World Cup game.
  
  The gameplay is enjoyable but is pretty linear. Passing and shooting is extremly touchy and is 
 hard to control, even the slightest nudge will send the ball flying away from the intended destination. 
 This is more prevelant in the passing aspect of the game as most of the time the ball will go to 
 the person that you didn't intend to pass it to. Sometimes this can be helpful as it can set up 
 an attack you never saw but more times than not it will kill the attack instead. The tactics system, 
 which is one of the focal points of the game, is not as big of a part of the game as it should 
 be. The AI usually dosen't do anything to with the selected strategy. On the defensive side of 
 the ball you will find that the opponet AI does little to counter your tactics which is vital in 
 making a realistic soccer game.
  
  The graphics in this game are just ugly. The player models aren't very true to the real life players 
 and has many blemishes such as hair that phases through the scalp. The most notable blemish is 
 the ghost affect on the zoomed in versions of the ball and players. This makes a translucent shadow 
 that looks as though you have double vision. Everything is rather ugly except for the nice player 
 annimations. The tackles and dives look exceptionaly well and realistic.
  
  The stadiums lack the punch that a true soccer crowd has. Very rarely will they get fired up and 
 when it happens it is gone almost in the same breath. The commentators while insighful will get 
 old quickly. The play by play is done well but you will hear many of the same praises of star players 
 repeated countless times very quickly.
  
  While FIFA 06: Road to the World Cup doesn't give us all that we had hoped for it still does enough 
 to warrant a quick play or two. Only the FIFA faithful might find reason to buy this but the other 
 percentage of soccer fans could make due with FIFA World Cup which is an overall more polished 
 product. This game will however tide us over until the next Winning Elevon and FIFA 07 which will 
 hopefully carry the FIFA's tradition of excellent better than this edition did. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: supermonkeygogo
Rating: 5.5
Date: Sep 2, 2006 10:49 am PT
Review:  Fifa rtwc is defintiely a game with flaw, once you have played one match that is all it is, the 
 game is awfully repetitive offers barely anything in choice of games. But on a positive this shows 
 truly next-gen grapphics but sadlly not a next-gen game.
  A must have if you like football but only because it is the only one currently, alone it becomes 
 a boring game extremely quickly but with friends a good multiplayer something that most Xbox 360 
 games dont offer yet. But in all only a must have if you really like football if not stay away 
 from this game.
  
  By Elliott Bonnell 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bern20
Rating: 6
Date: Aug 24, 2006 9:04 pm PT
Review:  Not what I was expecting. Almost every single aspect of this game is bad. The graphics are not 
 that good, players look too shiny. The gameplay needed to be more in depth. It will not be what 
 you expect out of a soccer game. It is has a sorry ending when you complete the game. There are 
 not many achievements in the game which is kind of makes it boring at the end. Online play is laggy 
 as hell unless its your neighnor next door that you are playing. it gets kind of choppy online 
 sometimes too. Everything is repetitive in the game. Also some players will look exactily alike 
 as others. Nice try EA!! HAHA! Got you! It is decent and worth playing once in a while. Only hard 
 core soccer fans pick this up and then pick up the next game after this FIFA World Cup to get the 
 good ending. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Warthog259
Rating: 8.6
Date: Aug 20, 2006 3:01 pm PT
Review:  good: finnally a powered system to show us all the faces of the players, Amazing ways to score 
 that but arnt that fake, grapphics are great, the corners are better they are harder
  
  bad. To easy to score, no more scissor kicks, xbox live is laggy a few times , alot of glitches, {example 
 you kick the ball to the goaly then the goaly hits the ball with his feet and ends up on his hands} . 
 Only two teams ranked 84 and the level that was 83 won the world cup. not fun when noone is there 
 { you should have someone play with you then the game is fun} so this is a good game but i prefer 
 to see what happens to fifa 07 and pro evo until then i think u should get this game
  
  o and a cheap move to score all the time when the goaly is coming without u pressing anything you 
 press be when hes close to u and it will never fail even on hardest difficulty. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spartan4Gondor
Rating: 8.8
Date: Aug 17, 2006 12:25 pm PT
Review:  I absolutely dispised this game when i first bought it, but i was hooked after winning my first 
 victory. However, Fifa 06 does make it somewhat hard for the player. by not offering any tutorials 
 on even basic things like long kicks and crosses, and more specific issues like dribbling. 
  
  But after you learn this the game begins to grow on you. The Actual soccer is some of the best 
 i have ever played no matter what the type of match, a high scoring game or a locked midfeild battle 
 all the matches will have you on the edge of your seat. One thing i liked about this game is that 
 long rage shots and crosses, were more an emphasis then break aways and dribbling. Sure you can 
 get a fantastic break, and thats always fun, but it feels more satisfying to get playes downfeild, 
 get a cross in the box and a header into the net. 
  
  The Graphics are beautiful, from the broadcast view you feel like you are actually watching a real 
 World cup match, and the models on players faces and jerseys are top notch. The Commentary is done 
 well overall, but sometimes misqued (i've heard the commentator talk about a tackle in the midfeild, 
 while i get a break with a croos and a nice spin move) 
  
  The game does lack in customization though without the abillity to edit players. 
  
  Overall 
 though, Fifa 06 RTWC is a great game with some great Soccer, so go support your contry and get 
 your top player the golden ball. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Beachedwhale29
Rating: 6.5
Date: Aug 15, 2006 7:04 pm PT
Review:  I made the mistake of buying this game before I ever knew about 2006 FIFA World Cup, I got 100% 
 on the achievements, but its a total waste of money to purchase this game now. You get money for 
 a non-existant shop! Wtf is that!? There is only one mode, qualify for the World Cup, you cant 
 even play the cup. 2006 FIFA World Cup owns this game in every way possible, way to take money 
 from poor little kids EA, you should be ashamed. The players are way too shiney and the graphics 
 just look like garbage; they look a little better in the replay when you can zoom in, but its just 
 not any good, definitely not next gen. Highly disappointed when I first got this game, now writing 
 a review bashing it! It's justified! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jakes1725
Rating: 9.2
Date: Aug 10, 2006 10:33 am PT
Review:  I definantily thought it would suck because thats what everyone said but it doesnt. This game is 
 amazing. Now sure i havent played all the other ones so it was a little hard to figure out some 
 contols but my friend who had played the other ones easily figured it out. And also this game does 
 have its downs i suppose. Seeing that there are no club teams or something like that. I dont really 
 know about the club teams things. Its an amazing game that really captures the essence of the game 
 of soccer. The only thing i can think of that has anything wrong with it is that when it zooms 
 in on a player it gets blurry.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ihateyou_right
Rating: 3.4
Date: Aug 8, 2006 3:51 am PT
Review:  Fifa games are always put behind pro evolution soccer games ( winning eleven) due to pro evo basically 
 being a better game all around. Well this makes no change to this Fifa road to world cup is awful. 
 Fifa 06 leaves you with a feeling that you have been there and done that and that you did it so 
 much better last time. The game basically feels rushed and to be honest should never have been 
 released. The gameplay seems to be some of the worst football gameplay ever it really is terrible 
 the players feel slugish its difficult to get them to do what you want them to do and it is very 
 very dissapointing. It feels like fifa has taken a big step backwards as this is pathetic. The 
 graphics are absolutely awful they could have done this on a ps2 I'm sure. While acctually playing 
 the game the grass looks completely flat There is better grass on the psp version of fifa 06 than 
 this it really is terrible. On replays the game goes into an extremely laggy cut scene where the 
 grass looks better but you struggle to tell which player is which by their faces, it's like visiting 
 a terrible wax musem and you are trying to guess who is who. The sound like all football games 
 suffers from repeat comentary I don't really need to say much more than that. The game is also 
 very very short I rentented this over the weekend and had it completed within the first three hours.
 
  
  Gameplay: terrible it looks like fifa has taken a huge leap backward in it's gameplay mechanics.
 
  
  Graphics: shocking, when I buy a 360 game I don't want something that looks like it be played on 
 a ps2.
  
  Sound: suffers from repeat comentary. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: abdulrahiem
Rating: 9.7
Date: Aug 7, 2006 3:32 pm PT
Review:  One of the best sports I played ever. This game takes every thing and does it just right. This 
 game is what all sports games should try to be. It takes the sport and makes you fell like your 
 right their. This game has spot on graphics that has the in game players looking just like their 
 real life counterparts. I also love how they are able to make you fell as if your actually in the 
 game. Overall this game is a must, and you'll enjoy it for a long time and it isn't a game you can 
 just beat in like a week or so. Also there are challenges that you can beat to get points and unlock 
 stuff in the the Fan Shop. This game basically has everything you would want in a soccer game. 
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheNIM
Rating: 2.9
Date: Aug 14, 2006 12:15 am PT
Review:  Someone should contact the powers that be at Electronic Arts and question why EA Sports released 
 2 soccer titles on the 360 right off the bat. I picked this copy up first and I must say I have 
 never been more disappointed in a soccer game in my life. 
  
  Ill start with the graphics. Very vanilla for a next gen game. Up close shots of the players are 
 ok and up close shots of the field are ok. That's where it stops. The nets on the goals look like 
 optical illusions. The crowd appears to be similar to the vision you get after you have had one 
 to many beers. You can't really see any individual fans. there are stadium flaws as well.
  
  The gameplay is awful. There are several glitches and exploits. It is so easy to cross pass 
 and score it's pathetic. the goalies are absolutly awful. The AI in general is weak. Don't even 
 attempt too slide tackle or you are almost certain to draw a yellow card. The kicking meters are 
 terrible.
  
  Content- Or should I say, lack there of. No club teams???? Are you serious. Nothing but national 
 teams and not every country is here. There is no typical structure to a tournament or season. You 
 pretty much go in and try out for the World Cup. Game is completely lacking depth. 
  
  Online play is terrible too as people don't really play the game, they sit and abuse exploits for 
 the most part. Certain teams are ranked much worse than they really are and vice versa.
  
  It is a very questionable release at any price, considering the other FIFA on the 360 is leaps 
 and bounds ahead of this one. In a nut shell, FIFA: RTFWC
  is a demo you can play online. That's about it. It isn't even worth $10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ianstokes
Rating: 7.4
Date: Jul 25, 2006 9:27 pm PT
Review:  This game is definatley underappreciated. The single player mode is a bit shallow, but if you enjoy 
 playing 2 player sports games (like most of us do) than you will find plenty of enjoyment playing 
 this with friends. While most people seem to say you would be better off buying FIFA WORLD CUP, 
 the price of that game is still $60, whereas FIFA RTFWC is only $40. A friend of mine ownd FIFA 
 WORLD CUP for XBOX 360, and although it does have a better single player mode, I think that this 
 game is just as satisfying. Bottom line, I dont know why this game recieved a 6 from gamespot, 
 and so many lame reviews from others, it is certainly a fun game in its own right!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CrazedColombian
Rating: 6.3
Date: Jul 19, 2006 2:54 pm PT
Review:  This game is a dissapointment... 
  seriously i dont understand it, why EA would make this game.... and sell it for $60... ITS A DEMO 
 !!! there are only about 40 teams and U CANT play in the world cup!!!!!!!!!! WHAT is up with that? 
 IT was the 1st 360 game i played and it made me worried.... if 360 games will be like this i wasted 
 alot of money and traded in my systems and games for nothing.... this game is awful....
  
  the gameplay is ok... its the fifa gameplay but Pro evoloution by konami is 1000x..... the graphics 
 r ok by for the big stars like Ronaldniho, Beckham but for everyone else it sucks and the characters 
 look really werid they are way to shiny to be human....
  
  for a 1st try this is bad EA real bad this game has no replay value, and i got the achievements 
 in less than 1hr. I cant say how disappointed I was with this game. On a good note i returned it 
 to EB games and complained enough about the game being a false advertisment that they gave me an 
 even swap for Dead or Alive 4 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zeroshift
Rating: 4.7
Date: Jul 18, 2006 12:29 pm PT
Review:  Look, I love soccer. I always have and it'll never ever change. I also love soccer games. Been 
 playing em since 94 and I tell you, the game in 94 looks and plays alot better then this one for 
 360. If there's one word to explain this game, it would be "rushed".
  
  Here to present to you FIFA 2006, one of the worst soccer games ever to reach the shelves. Seriously, 
 what was EA thinking? Where can we start off the flaws? The gameplay, the only thing i liked was 
 that you were able to play during loading times. That was when I later figured out that I was playing 
 more on the loading times than an actual game. When the actual game was going on, I'm saying to 
 my brother that this game is a rip-off. The movement was okay. Kind of like watching a real soccer 
 game. But the game could get so boring because it's almost impossible to score. Knowing that because 
 the majority of the games I played went into shootout. What's even worse, is that they only put 
 in 72 international teams and absolutely no club teams. The only question you can ask is why? Did 
 EA not feel like putting in club teams? No variety at all. Watching paint dry would've been better 
 than to play this travesty.
  
  As for the graphics, all I can say is wow. You messed up the gameplay pretty bad but EA has their 
 ways of making a horrible game worse. This system is next-gen, this game should be the same. Now 
 correct me if i'm wrong, but it's not normal when you have a crowd being attacked by a PHOTOSHOP 
 FILTER! The players look like they're sick and about to throw up, and the field looks like green 
 clay! I think I gained the right to say that those were the worst graphics i've ever seen on the 
 360.
  
  As for sound, the music is alright. Cool soundtrack and all. But the crowd can't be close to excited. 
 I don't like playing soccer in ghost towns, and neither does anyone else. As for the commentary, 
 they are so uninteresting and so boring that a mute can do a much better job talking. Grade A garbage 
 indeed.
  
  Listen, all I can say about this game is that you're better off playing the X-box version and you 
 really shouldn't bother with this one.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrlegacy666
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 16, 2006 11:01 pm PT
Review:  I walked into unfarmiliar territory "XBOX360 section of the store"I though maybe it would be worth 
 playing a game hands on and see what the entire lemmings crazy is about. Well all i can say is 
 that FIFA 2006 World Cup on the road... or what ever... is in fact not that great. The game grapghically 
 is not that remarkable and the AI of the goal keepers are extremely low considering i score 3 goals 
 in 25mins. the game requires no skills of technique. The players while running still have an edgy 
 looking body posture and their t-shirts have an akwards silver lining on the shirt. A real dissapointment. 
 I know the 360 can do better than this !!!! I SAW SOME OF THE GAME PLAY FOOTAGE OF OTHER GAMES!!!. 
 EA has just like always produced a sports game which is grapghically a laughing stock , and game 
 play wise no comment seeing it was so poor i had to cry. Worst Game ever i hope they don; t release 
 this on the PS3 because it would just destroy the entire consoles reputation. 
  
  The are also a lacking in teams with only 72 internationals available which is sad. Yet still the 
 game is better then current game which has to be taken into consideration yet compare to some other 
 titles out on the 360 this is a real kick and miss!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: StoneTheCrows
Rating: 5.6
Date: Jul 10, 2006 2:47 pm PT
Review:  The way I see it, there really isn't any point in buying this game. This seems like yet another 
 attempt by Electronic Arts to milk every penny from their customers... and it worked. I, like the 
 average unsuspecting football fan, bought this gaming thinking that it was EA's 2006 World Cup 
 game. The reality is, this game isn't the World Cup game, it is the Road TO World Cup game. I mean, 
 c'mon, this is ridiculous.
  
  What's worse, as far as soccer games go, this game is pretty crappy. The system they have implemented 
 for shooting the ball is extremely hit and miss. In fact, I've had this game since release, and 
 I still don't know if there is an actual technique involved when shooting the ball. I simply just 
 run up to the 18 yard box, shoot, and hope it goes in.
  
  The game isn't particularly difficult. Even on the harder difficulty levels I found little challenge 
 bypassing the defenders. The only challenge was trying to get the ball in the net, no thanks to 
 the awkward shooting system.
  
  The one thing that EA always seems to nail is the sound department. They've got a variety of great 
 songs from all over the world which add a nice little touch to the game. They've also got commentators 
 who will regularly narrate your matches. Although these commentators eventually run out of things 
 to say and start repeating themselves, I still rather enjoyed hearing what they had to say.
  
  I guess my biggest beef with this game is the fact that I feel mighty shafted. If I had known 
 EA was going to release the actual World Cup game a couple months later, I would have skipped this 
 pile of crap and be richer for it. For those of you who are planning on buying this game, DON'T. 
 Outside of the fact that I feel completely and utterly ripped-off, this game isn't really much 
 of a soccer game anyways. I use to be a pretty avid fan of EA's FIFA series, but now I can easily 
 see myself veering off into the direction of the Winning Eleven series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maxinshoes
Rating: 6.6
Date: Jul 5, 2006 2:50 pm PT
Review:  FIFA 06 was made for PS2 and XBOX, soon after, FIFA 06: Road to FIFA World Cup was released, many 
 360 owners sighed in relief, but then delved in the buyer's remorse, but they didn't want to return 
 it for one reason, it was the only football game for the 360.
  FIFA 06 featured a blur system which blur and faded everything on screen, which was good for a 
 first glance at next gen, but then became annoying. Other downsides include only 72 international 
 teams (not bad, but when you think there are 192 countries in the world, your view suddenly changes) 
 and no club teams.
  Otherwise it is pretty much the same game, apart from the vastly improved graphics, and the vastly 
 disappointing gameplay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Quinones22
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jun 21, 2006 8:40 am PT
Review:  The graphics are great, because imagine getting everyone single detail of every singles person 
 face from every team, for having to do that, they did great! But it is very hard to score, unless 
 you get 1 on 1 with the goaline. Or you head it in on a corner. Cause you pretty much cannot control 
 the power of the ball and it always goes over. But the announcers actually talke about whats happeneing, 
 not like they saw the same things over again. But while your waiting for it to load a game, it 
 lets you screw around, like you can shoot on yuor goalie, pass the ball and practice, until you 
 want to start, i like that part a lot. So I would say rent it first, then buy it if you like it! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 3eyedrazorback
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jun 16, 2006 2:27 pm PT
Review:  Fifa 06: Road to the Fifa World Cup is.. well.... addicting in it's on self, but it could have been 
 a lot better in my opinion. haven't beat it all the way thru but the matches were challenging and 
 it was difficult at first to score a goal, but now... now it's like... so easy! get inside of the 
 defensive players, kick the ball... not over the goal, but into it, obviously. i do like the game, 
 don't get me wrong. teams are stacked... i say teams, i mean Brazil. but oh well, nevertheless, 
 it's worth buying... due to the fact that it's only 40 bucks. go get it if you want to have some 
 addicting fun... if you'd rather get fifa 06 world cup, i would understand. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zweihanderhero
Rating: 5.4
Date: Jun 14, 2006 8:08 am PT
Review:  Winning Eleven may be regarded as the best soccer series, but personally, I dont like the games. 
 Winning Eleven seems to me to be more sim-like and thats turned me off the series ever since it 
 started out on the PS1. Fifa on the other hand, I like. Its fast speed of play, its arcade-like 
 gameplay (although thats been toned down in recent years) and its attention to detail always 
 made it a must play for years now
  
  Until FIFA 2006: RTFWC came along. EAs back to its old tricks again with this next generation 
 installment, trying to milk us gamers for what is essential a next generation game thats far inferior 
 to the current generation version. 90% of the stuff thats in the current generation of the game 
 is missing. Club teams? Gone. National teams that didnt make the World Cup? See you next year. 
 Create a Player mode? Disappeared. League games? Thrown out the window.
  
  In short, anything and everything that made the FIFA games fun on the current generation consoles 
 fun are gone. Whats left is just a skeleton of what SHOULD be here. The main meat of the game 
 is the Road to Fifa World Cup mode. Here, you pick a team and then slog it out with the others 
 in vying to make the cut to go to the World Cup finals. Heres where EA flicks us the bird. Instead 
 of PLAYING in the Finals, you ONLY get to take your team as far as the selection. Yup thats right. 
 Youll NEVER play in the World Cup finals, ONLY in the qualifying stages. SCREWED!
  
  As if expecting the uproar that the above will cause, EA has wisely added in the subtitle to the 
 title, hence Road to Fifa World Cup and NOT FIFA World Cup. A loophole to be sure, but I dont 
 think that will anger fans who bought this game any less. You can create custom tournaments and 
 leagues in the game but who will actually bother? With only a handful of teams, youll be playing 
 against the same guys over and over.
  
  Xbox LIVE play is fun for those with a LIVE account but then again, how many people will actually 
 just buy a half assed game JUST to play online? Sure, some of the player models look awesome but 
 graphics aint the whole damn show.
  
  Yeah, I didnt say ALL the player models in case you were wondering. Stars like Zidane, Beckham, 
 Kahn or Henry all look incredibly lifelike but the unknowns all look like zombies. The coaches 
 too look like crap compared to the players. EA has strangely gone with a blurry effect for the 
 game, most evident during the kick off of the matches. The first time I played the game, I thought 
 my TV was spoilt or something. I mean, why the hell is there an afterimage of the ball? It disappears 
 during the normal game though. The gameplay, as one would expect is polished smooth. Its remarkable 
 like the FIFA games on the current generations, with a smooth stable framerate. Its during the 
 close ups and the replays that the framerate stutters. Replays look horrible with jerky animations 
 to match the crumbling framerate. Everytime you get a shot of the whole stadium, the FPS goes down 
 the gutter. Its a surprise considering the stadiums arent that good looking and the crowds are 
 utter crap too
  
  The only thing that saves the game is its commentary but then again that too repeats itself often. 
 Its entertaining the first few games you hear it, but as you progress and hear the same old phrases 
 over and over again, itll wear thin. Like everything in the game, the commentary too is half-assed.
 
  
  Dont even bother getting this game. If you want a soccer game, stick with the Xbox FIFA or Winning 
 Eleven games. You want a next generation sports game? Get Fight Night Round 3 or NBA Live instead.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: G_connexion
Rating: 6.1
Date: Jun 8, 2006 9:57 am PT
Review:  This soccer game is only for hardcore soccer fans.. I really dont like the gameplay it is hard 
 to describe.. but the players are runnin as if they were on ecstasy.. it is really a fast game 
 2 or 3 times faster than PES! This is not the only minus.. the replays are bad, and the players 
 are too slow even if you are playing with Brazil against San Marino. 
  Plus the game is too short if you want to play this game for like 20 days lol 
  This game is 
 okay for 10 days but not more than that.. I really love soccer, I also play soccer myself, so this 
 is "okay" game for me... there are some good things like.. the players can play with hands and 
 the graphics part is also really good. So overall it is a game you allways can pick up and play 
 if you dont know what else to do, but if you play games 3 or more hours a day... than this game 
 is not for you mate... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AlvMar
Rating: 6.7
Date: Jun 6, 2006 5:41 pm PT
Review:  The game doesnt sucks, but is OK. Once you get used to it, you can start having some fun.
  
  The graphics... I must admit that Ive seen a lot better in other football games. 
  
  I 
 must admit that is really hard to get used to this game, so I play it on amateur (for now) . Sometimes, 
 the players do other stuuf I dont want, so it stresses me out. 
  
  Just play to have fun, its really entertaining. Alos, its easier to get a lot of achievements 
 points. The achievements on this games are like 100 points to 300. You can first rent it to get 
 them, and if you still want it to play a little more, buy it. Its worthy, but you have to know, 
 that there are other better football games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 007ybse04
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jun 3, 2006 7:00 am PT
Review:  FIFA 06 Road to FIFA World Cup is the first soccer title of Xbox360.
  Gameplay is basically the same as other FIFA06s and also contains same bugs in gameplay, 
  1) 
 Through Balls are still unbalanced; not useful enough.
  2) GoalKeepers are so silly, they can almost go to the midfield when the ball comes. :)
  3) It 
 is almost impossible to pass the opponents with the ball.
  4) Field seems so FLAT while gameplay. NO grass feeling in far cams.
  5) Number of Cutscene animations 
 are not too much. You can see the same event at a later time.
  
  6) FPS Slow downs in replays. and Close cams.
  Good Points;
  1) Ball's Physic is very good.
 
  2) Supporters are ALL 3d ! !
  3) Player and coach Models are extremely good!
  4) Blur And Depth of Field effect is impressive
  5) Grass is seems as in real life ! ( Replays 
 and Close cams.)
  6) All the referees work with no bugs.
  7) Players can perspire !!
  8) Good Sounds&Commentary
  9) Good Atmosphere! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dillyhox
Rating: 5.5
Date: May 30, 2006 8:13 pm PT
Review:  Not bad for a launch day 360 soccer game. The game you are playing here is great just to get out 
 and kick that ball around. Maybe score some goals or twoor just pass that ball around. It is also 
 a great game if you have a friend to play against. But single player it is kind of a let down. 
 The major thing is that you cant even win that coveted world cup! That would have made the gamejust 
 combine there FIFA World Cup 06 and it would be bank. But nope!! EA had to steal another $60 from 
 peoplewhat do they think everyone is rich and can afford that stuff. Well this game is a good 
 game but it could have been better with just that world cup matches. But if your going to buybuy 
 the newer World Cup 06. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GdUpFoo
Rating: 4.9
Date: May 21, 2006 3:48 pm PT
Review:  read headline a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a aa a a aa a aa a a a a a a a a a a a a a a 
 aaaaa a a a a a a a a P p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p pp p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p 
 p p p p pp p p p p p p p p p p pp p pp pp p pp p p p p p p p p p pp p p p pp p p p p p p pp p p 
 p p p p p p p p pp p p p p p p p pp p p p p p p p p p p pp p p p p p p p p p p p p 
::::::

::::::
UserName: billjakybob
Rating: 6.8
Date: May 18, 2006 5:12 am PT
Review:  Well i was expecting this to be a great soccer game because its the first for the 360 and it let 
 me down so much, while i was playing i noticed every time the camera got close to the players it 
 just seems as like they were glowing and i found that weird also they also look like clay at some 
 points. The controls weren't all that great and say while the other team had the ball it would 
 randomly choose a player for you, like some times the guy would be at the other end with the ball 
 and all of a sudden im controlling me defence, this got real announing real quick. But over all 
 this game wasn't that bad.
  
  The Good: It has all the countries, you have many events to pick from, will take you a little while 
 to complete.
  
  The Bad: Takes a while to get the hang of shooting, Really easy for both sides of the field to 
 block the ball, Randomly changes your player for you, Weird glow to the players also making them 
 look like clay, Almost all the difficulties are the same, some times its hard to take the ball 
 of the CPU.
  
  Achievements: Easy 
  
  If you are a soccer fan you might like this but for those of you that just like sports stay away 
 from FiFa 06 RTWC its not worth the full price. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xXBrazilManXx
Rating: 8.9
Date: May 11, 2006 10:57 am PT
Review:  FIFA 06 is a really fun soccer game. It has quite a few fun modes to mess around in. The graphics 
 are outstanding and the sound is awesome! You'll feel like you're there when you play this game. 
 The game is very well made and EA took time making it. There are many moves and the commentators 
 know what they are saying. 
  
  I am a huge soccer fan and this game is just right for me. It has realism in all aspects of the 
 game. The A. I. is smart so you'll be equally challenged or beaten... badly! It has all the World 
 Cup teams, not a single MLS one so keep that in mind. There is a another game after this one called 
 World Cup 2006, so this one is just a qualifier for the World Cup.
  
  So if you're a soccer fan that takes it easy then this game is for you!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Delongman
Rating: 6.4
Date: May 6, 2006 9:04 am PT
Review:  Ok maybe i'm asking that question becaus e I beat this Austrailian guy 2-0 the other day in this 
 music shop. I haven't got much to say bout it... If this game is fair I just hope that the next 
 one is better! I jus really like the graphics though and the way everything has been well worked 
 upon, like Ronaldinho's hair bouncing up and down when he runs. Personally I wouldn't buy but i'm 
 hoping that Konami's got PES 6 in the works!!!! The one thing I also like was the face definition 
 that is now present (even though some of it complete lies) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: many_goats
Rating: 4.3
Date: Apr 21, 2006 4:40 pm PT
Review:  EA are becoming pretty well known for under-performing when it comes to particular games, and therefore 
 it is no surprise that FIFA RTWC 06, quite predictably, falls a long way short of expectations. 
 Whilst the basic FIFA series is still blossoming after well over a decade, the World Cup games 
 are much shorter, and with fewer options. This all becomes extremely obvious once you play this 
 game.
  First things first; this game isnt completely unplayable. There are plenty of flaws, but there 
 are some nice touches as well, one of which is the commentary. The voiceovers are provided by Martin 
 Tyler and Andy Gray of Sky Sports fame, and they often fill the frequent drops in excitement with 
 interesting trivia. This gives the game a certain authenticity, as if you were watching it on TV 
 rather than playing in it. Also, they have a fairly wide range of comments; and both are apparently 
 well informed about the history of most of the footballing nations present in the game.
  Another intuitive and fairly impressive part of the game is the menu systems. They are easily navigated, 
 and you can even set your tactics mid-game at the push a button using the useful hotkey menu. Equally 
 nice is The Arena, a darkened hard court stadium, in which you can knock a ball about with a 
 few players from your pre-designated favourite team, even during the menu system, as well as 
 whilst any proper matches load up.
  Graphically, the game is impressive in some departments, and quite worrying in others. The players 
 look pretty good up close; shirts billow in the breeze, and players show a genuine frustration 
 in getting caught offside. The stadiums also look almost exactly like their real life counterparts; 
 the few of which are seen here, anyway. But, there are some serious flaws here. Firstly, the crowds 
 look awful; a low-textured sea of hardly coherent shapes waving about haphazardly does not make 
 the fans look real. Also, the frame rate suffers horribly during replays, apparently falling as 
 low as 15 frames per second in some instances, and the players still emit that famous FIFA glow.
 
  With these features aside, its time to focus on the main element of any game: the gameplay. Unfortunately, 
 this is where FIFA RTWC 06 truly comes into its own, in all the wrong ways. To being with, the 
 ball physics are absolutely awful; youd be forgiven for thinking that the players were knocking 
 a shot putt around. Shooting has gone from stupidly easy to a little bit too hard, and its impossible 
 to get any real power behind a shot, with full power apparently translated into higher. The free 
 kicks have undergone a similar transition; whereas before it was almost impossible to miss, now, 
 unless you take a very detailed look at the manual, its impossible to score. Free kicks where 
 you dont get the option to shoot are worse still; the camera angles mean that you cant see where 
 your kick is actually going, and the games varying perception of power means that the ball rarely 
 meets the player that you might have aimed at, had you seen him.
  With all this in mind though, the game is quite addictive. Often, its a desire to simply release 
 your frustration at purchasing this title, but you could find yourself playing quite a few games 
 at a time, and coming back for more.
  The difficulty settings dont really vary at all. After playing a game on every difficulty, youll 
 notice that the opposition will play almost exactly the same on every difficulty; with scoring 
 becoming gradually harder. Otherwise, its the same game on any setting.
  As far as options go, this is probably one of the most limited sports games you could find. Included 
 in the game are a total of 72 teams, all national, though over 200 attempt to qualify in real life. 
 Worse still, if youre going to carry out the Road To World Cup mode, you can only do so with 
 the European teams, unless you wish to create a fake custom qualifying system, which completely 
 removes any true involvement in the World Cup spectacle. The main suckerpunch though is that 
 this game really does do exactly what it says it does: the road to the World Cup. Once you have 
 successfully qualified, thats it: game over. The qualifying matches are separated by friendlies 
 and friendly tournaments, all of which feel tacked on, and will feel more like a duty than a challenge. 
 Even the achievements dont expand the game much; you can get half of them by just playing through 
 the World Cup mode, and the other 3 can be completed in less than 2 hours. Achievements? I dont 
 think so.
  As a football game, it is almost impossible to recommend FIFA RTWC, due to its lack of options, 
 mixed graphics and disastrous gameplay. If youre looking for an arcade football experience to 
 quench your thirst for an Xbox 360 football game, then this just about does the job. If youre 
 looking for a football simulator, stay well away, and go and buy PES5 for the original Xbox. Overall, 
 its clumsy, slow, somewhat repetitive, but yet mildly entertaining, mostly due to the commentary. 
 Rent it first, and see what you think of it, which to be honest, probably wont be an awful lot.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mocha360
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 5, 2006 2:21 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay:
  Better in my mind then the console version, well gameplay wise, its got good goaltending and it's 
 just a much more entertaining experiance.
  
  Graphics:
  Pretty good, everyone else is haten for this games graphics, but I think that there pretty good, 
 you get frame-rate slowdown during replays that hold it back, but it's coulorful and the faces 
 are spot on.
  
  Sound:
  Good soun, i like it , it's got that awful tween music that's just anoying, but great anouncing 
 and the crown comes alive after big plays.
  
  Value:
  This is where they droped the ball, there's only 72 international team, you can only qualify for 
 the world cup and the online play is limited, very dissapointing, with all of EA sports 360 games 
 there puting no effert into any real lasting apeal
  
  Tilt:
  It's a fun game, good gameplay, you will enjoy it, if you don't care about how much the game will 
 offer you.
  
  Overall:
  It's a pretty good game overall, although you should proboley just rent it it's not a fantasitc 
 experiance and it's not a bad experiance, it's just ok
  
  7/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ratola
Rating: 7.8
Date: Apr 17, 2006 3:53 pm PT
Review:  Well guys this is a difficult review because this game has good and bad things but unlike other 
 games, this game has really good things and other really bad or medium (lol) bad things.
  
  Graphics:
  
  This games graphics aint That bad, they dont look really really next gen, but 
 they are good, the player models the way some of them run in actually pretty personalized ( like 
 cristiano ronaldo) their expressions and their eyes looking to the ball and some players hair moving 
 with their movement, those are good points to graphically improve the game, but there are negative 
 aspect concerning graphics, like the crowd, the game spectators are very low res, they move in 
 a choreographed way and that takes out the credibility, the 3d grass is also good but you must 
 know that the grass isnt rendered 3d at all times, not that the xbox360 doesnt have the power 
 but because it isnt really always necessary (only at replays and maybe if you had a closer camera, 
 which would be a nice input) .
  The players movements are good, but sometimes the connections between the movements aint really 
 that well performed. And whats with that clothes, they have a cloth physics integrated and all 
 ( I dont believe its a true cloth physics system or at least it isnt rendered at all times but 
 ok) but the clothes fly in the character body, like in other games for the xbox360 that have a 
 physics cloth integrated, i believe it because of the collision and possible intersection with 
 the players 3d models, but they could integrated a better physics system in which the clothes actually 
 hang from their bodies, but thats ok :p
  
  Playability:
  
  In my case, in this review, I think that what saves this game is its beautiful playability, its 
 very soft and very easy to master, you feel you are controlling the game, although there are occasional 
 bugs, that dont let you select the player you want instantly, but this bugs, concerning the playability, 
 are very rare.
  
  - There is the problem with the number of teams in this game, I dont know why there are so few, 
 like 70, maybe because this is a rushed port from the xbox 1 version, or the disk doesnt have 
 enough space ( unlikely) , but after a while you wont really matter that, only for about 3 games 
 you will think,-
  --ho man i wish there was this team, this sucks.
  After that, you will just enjoy the game in its basic function which is to make you have a blast 
 with football.
  
  There is the single player against the A. I, which is very good , you can choose various scales 
 of difficulty. But you have a better time playing with friends, against or with them, there is 
 an up to four multiplayer VERY ADDICTING : )
  
  So all to all it comes to be a 7.8, good game actually, you can have a great time when your friend 
 come to your home, every body yelling, eating some pretzels and fighting to be the next guy to 
 play , good times ; P
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: fishdalf
Rating: 4.3
Date: Apr 6, 2006 11:33 am PT
Review:  Here we have Fifa 06: The Road To World Cup, just like Ronseal it does exactly what it says on 
 the tin. You choose from 72 teams from around the world and you qualify for the World Cup via 
 group stages, there are also a few friendlies thrown in. This game only features the qualifiers, 
 it does not touch upon the World Cup in any way. There are also very few modes to choose from: 
 practice, the option of a custom tournament and a poorly designed online mode. The game doesnt 
 even feature all the teams that the actual real-life qualifying does and only about a 6th of the 
 players previous Fifa games have featured. 
  
  This game makes some obvious attempts at trying to recreate a sense of realism with all of the 
 minor facial animations and its use of shadows. What it actually does is reveals many of its graphical 
 flaws, every player seems to have a blurry border, every animation has some kind of blemish and 
 players at times look rather comical. There are some replays which actually do look rather good 
 but sadly most suffer from slowdown. 
  
  The creators of this game have obviously been taking note of whats been going on over at Konami, 
 they must have realized that it was stupidly easy to score and instead messed up and made it impossibly 
 hard. Only a ridiculously precise through-ball or a lucky bounce will expose your opponent, even 
 when you are through your attacker will slow down considerably. The defenders however will be injected 
 with an alarming pace and steal the ball off you with relative ease. This makes it almost impossible 
 to score a breakaway with even the quickest of players and limits scoring to horrendous defensive 
 errors or a cheeky deflection. 
  
  The ball physics are simply dreadful, the ball moves as if on rails and has no real weight to it 
 whatsoever, at times even the players flop along at a shockingly slow pace. The AI is erratic 
 and frustrating which making gameplay inconsistent and unmanageable. The tackling is completely 
 useless and feels entirely random, it is a tedious experience whether you are attacking or defending. 
 
  
  Lets talk a bit more about the graphics which portray some players in stunning detail and others 
 in an unclear mess. The poor animations make players look stupid, theyre either dragging themselves 
 around the pitch or spinning around on the spot looking rather confused. Its just a shame that 
 a 360 game that is supposedly next generation looks this bad, infact its a shame that any game 
 should look this bad. The stadiums are incredibly undetailed and anything that the game believes 
 you are not looking at is blurred to epic proportions. 
  
  The sound is surprisingly better than I expected but still lacks any real precision, what is playing 
 out on the pitch bares no reflection on what the commentators are babbling about. They seem to 
 be more interested on what is going off the pitch and I dont really blame them. The crowds sound 
 good but not as good as previous Fifa games and the same can be said for the soundtrack. 
  
  It Is games like this that make me feel good about writing reviews, I get a chance to warn 
 people about the dreadful games that are out there, games that are so terrible they should never 
 have been released. This game has been gutted of anything a good Fifa game possesses , the 360 
 version has even less features than that of rival consoles for some unknown reason. I absolutely 
 live football and the same goes for games, this title would be hard to place in either category. 
 
  
  Gameplay - Terrible ball physics and bad player AI, its just not good. 
  
  Graphics - At times players can look great, most of the time they just look awful. Poor animations 
 and other major flaws kill any real graphical merit. 
  
  Sound - A good commentary but only good, everything else is below par. 
  
  Value - Very few 
 game modes, a not so enthralling main mode to begin with. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: juventus_fc97
Rating: 5.5
Date: Apr 1, 2006 8:27 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: What happened here? The most important ingredient to making a soccer game is undoubtedly 
 the way it handles once you get to the pitch. Let's face it, EA sports got it all wrong in this 
 one. Perhaps the most noticable detail is simply the way the players move. It's so terrible that 
 it's hard to describe. I think the best word for it is jerky. This is most apparent when your controlling 
 the player with the ball. I was amazed to see how a player could instantly shift his momentum in 
 any direction. Sprinting in this game just doesn't feel right either... something you'd just have 
 to experience to understand. Nothing else about the gameplay stands out as much as this extremely 
 awkward handling. I know it sounds like a minor issue, but the effect it has on the quality of 
 the game is hugely detrimental. 
  
  Graphics: The graphics in this game are overall pretty good, except for rubbery looking skin on 
 the players and the strange halo of light that surrounds all objects in the game. Alot of the big 
 name players look close to their real-life counterparts, which is good ( Perhaps the best thing 
 about the graphics ) . I do think that for a system so powerful as the XBOX 360, this could, and 
 should have been a better department for the game. 
  
  Sound: I give the sound a rating of 7, if only for the commentary. Although repetitive at times, 
 it's quite good. Martin Tyler often has some kind of interesting fact to tell about the teams that 
 are playing, which is a nice touch. 
  
  Conclusion: Unless your trapped on an island with nothing but this game and an XBOX 360, I wouldn't 
 waste my valuable time playing this mess, not to mention the ridiculous amount of money you have 
 to pay for it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scuffdog_65
Rating: 7.3
Date: Mar 29, 2006 6:38 am PT
Review:  FIFA 06: Road to FIFA World Cup (RTFWC) is just another average game. The sound and graphics are 
 pretty amazing, but everything just fell short of good. One thing i cant understand is why make 
 a soccer game when you cant play in the World Cup? It makes absolutely no sense. And now they are 
 coming out with a game called Fifa 06 World Cup where you can actually play in the world cup. What 
 is the point of doing that. Anyway gameplay is just average but gets boring after a few games. 
 Achievements for this game are very easy however. The best part of this game is when the monstrous 
 Scottish announcers just blares over everything and just talks about nothin. He has no clue what 
 he is talking about. Instead of paying $60.00 for this game just go out and rent it. Trust me. 
 You'll regret buying this game for $60.00. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cyrusgd19
Rating: 4.3
Date: Mar 28, 2006 1:27 am PT
Review:  I've followed the FIFA series since 94. There is only one reason to get this game: playing with 
 friends. 
  
  Single-player:
  The best thing I can say of the Road to the World Cup mode is that it has consistency. Throughout 
 my experience, I was consistently dissapointed. First off, to properly qualify you can only select 
 a UEFA team (forget trying to qualify with Brazil in an accurate fashion) . Secondly, the level 
 of team management is so low, the game is essentially a string of quick matches. The only difference 
 is that you have a goal: to reach the world cup. Well, guess what? Once you reach the world cup, 
 the game is over! Never have I been so embarassed for a game developer. EA's Road to the World 
 Cup 98 puts this game to shame (with regards to its feature-set) . That's just sad.
  
  Online:
  Perhaps others have more postive experiences, but on my end, with a broadband connection 
 (that works blissfully with any other game) , the game is slugglish and near unplayable online. 
 There is a great leaderboard UI that breaks users into countries, so you can see how you rank against 
 your countrymen. 
  
  Graphics: 
  Standard game-play is a definitive step-up from the current gen counterpart; however, it's not 
 even close to the finish of EA's other titles, namely Madden and NBA. (I won't even mention Fight 
 Night as it's on a completely different level) . When you get into replays or certain camera angles, 
 the game can run as slow as 15 FPS. 
  
  Bottom line, this game isn't even close to being worth $70. While Madden, NBA and Tiger have their 
 distinct flaws, I think anyone can agree that EA is heading in the right direction. With FIFA though, 
 they have a lot of work to do for World Cup 2006 (coming out in April) . Unless they pull a rabbit 
 out of a hat, I can't see even 4-6 months of development saving this game. This presents a great 
 opportunity for Konami. If they build a great foundation with their 360 release (i. e. solid graphics 
 engine) , they can steal the next-gen market. I hope EA proves me wrong this time.
  
  Anyone reading the above review may be surprised to see that I've spent roughly 20 to 40 hours 
 playing the game. The game has one saving grace and it is the only reason to pick up this game 
 (fortunately I didn't have to pay MSRP) : offline multiplay. I get a lot of gametime playing this 
 game with friends. The game play is entirely unchanged from it's Xbox counterpart, which isn't 
 a horrible thing. As happy as I am to be playing a soccer game with my friends on the 360, I wish 
 that EA had skipped this iteration (as they did with NHL) and focused on having a more solid foundation 
 for World Cup 2006. They must have wasted a lot of hours fixing all the bugs so that this could 
 ship on time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ocdog45
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 22, 2006 9:46 pm PT
Review:  As we all know the world cup is this year. what a better way to get ready than playing some international 
 soccer in your own home. while the average player will enjoy this game. extremist will be upset 
 with every other EA sports game that was made WAY! too fast for the XBOX 360. but there is a market 
 for it so consumers will buy. the graphics and sounds are terrific in this game , no complaints 
 there. I actually find it difficult to play the game since the shooting is a bit off. but in time 
 one can perfect it. the game play itself is as simple as can be. which makes it PERFECT!. no reason 
 to mess with perfection. 
  how ever the team selection is a problem. not enough club teams for the extremist soccer fan and 
 for those newbies you wouldn't even understand them either. 
  I yet have found out the reply value since I am still playing it and only time will tell with its 
 replay value.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: lil_ky
Rating: 7.8
Date: Mar 21, 2006 8:12 pm PT
Review:  FIFA 06 Road to the World Cup is an average soccer game with about 70ish teams unlike former FIFA's 
 with over 100 if ur a huge soccer buff then this game is definetly for u but if ur just in the 
 mood for a quick soccer game then its not for you it will be fun for the average sports gamer but 
 first of all its soccer so dont expect to score much you can be the best team Brazil and play some 
 team i dont even know how to spell and barley pull out a win the announcers are alrgiht untill 
 u get the drunk Irish man talking wow that really pics up the gameplay hes like the Madden of soccer 
 he may not talk much but when he does u will laugh i dont care who u are the online play is pretty 
 fun and if u last long enough the shootouts are spectacular if u know how to play goalie im an 
 American and americans dont really watch soccer but this game kinda turned me around now i can 
 at least stand the sport its a really fun game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rcwadsworth
Rating: 6.6
Date: Mar 11, 2006 11:51 am PT
Review:  Fifa starts off its 360 series of games with a game that lets face it rushed starpped together 
 bt at this point in time there is nothing else if it was not for football I would not both with 
 this come on EA road to the world cup, thats worse than world cup YYYY there sn't anything to do 
 here pick you team from 22 playrs off you go score goals ..... This game is a no brainer but it 
 will do until pro Evo comes out EA I will give you a yellow card for this one get a second yellow 
 card and its off the field for you.
  
  to sum up:
  
  Bad
  
  not woth 50 more like 20
  not nealy enough to do
  rushed
  Short
  bored
  dead
  
 
  Good points
  Football
  god to to fill up your gamer card points
  Beat Germany again and again
  
  You have been wrned do better or your off!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: edcarnochan
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 10, 2006 3:41 am PT
Review:  This game has recieved alot of critisism. But i feel that it is undeserved. you need to look at 
 it for what it is, a football game about going to the world cup. It is not a club game like its 
 predecesor and thats where everyone is going wrong. You may say that it only has 71 international 
 teams and no clubs but thats not the point its a purely international game not a club game. Also 
 this was only a release game and EA released it (with its purposeful lack of clubs) to give a taste 
 what football games may LOOK like on a next gen console. Surely the future is bright if the graphical 
 jump is that much for the release title. 
  On a bad note though most of the players look as if the have undergone some serious plastic surgery 
 since i last saw them. This is a problem and hopefuly will be sorted before the release of a club 
 based title. 
  Overall this is a good start and worth buying if you are a football fan and want a taste of next 
 gen footie. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DWolford32
Rating: 6.8
Date: Mar 7, 2006 9:42 pm PT
Review:  I bought this game because i just got my 360, am a huge soccer fan/player, and i have fifa 06 on 
 the xbox and i loved it. I did play the demo on the 360 and i liked it so much i bought it. I am 
 not saying it was a mistake to buy it but $60 for this game is much to steep. When you turn it 
 on I like the fact you can shoot and pass around but there is no defense. The graphics are really 
 good, i didn't experience any of the glitches they experienced here. My favorite feature of this 
 game is that almost every star player has a noticible set of cleats that are the real cleats they 
 use. In previous games the cleats were generice with small exceptions. Now they have many cleats 
 from the Mercurial Vapor, Total 90 and Air legend from nike to The F50 and predator from adidas. 
 Some players look real like djubril cisse but some like thierry Henry and Eddie Johnson look not 
 much like they do in real life. The online on this game is good with minimal lag. But the story 
 mode to "qualify" for the world cup is disapointing. If you could play the world cup like it was 
 qualified for then it would be better. If you have a 360 and love soccer like i do and don't have 
 a xbox with this game and have xbox live then buy it. but if not then stay away and pray that fifa 
 07 is worthy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: santana4545
Rating: 6
Date: Mar 2, 2006 10:00 am PT
Review:  Well,
  I bought this game with high expectations. It was one of my first next-gen titles purchased for 
 the 360. I would have gave this game a higher rating if it wasn't for a couple things..... First, 
 this game is meant for European gamers not for the North or South American gamers. There is no 
 option to choose lets say U. S. A., Mexico, etc. and that's funny because it's made by EA Canada, 
 which is not in Europe. ( No offense to European gamers) Anyway, I could even live with that... BUT 
 then after so much effort in playing the game I finally qualified for the World Cup. Finally, I 
 thought to myself.... The credits begin to roll and I see the same opening screen I see when you 
 turn on the system..... I expect to see something that said "new world cup option available"..... WRONG!! 
 That's it. What the F@!* EA Canada! You mean to tell me I played through the whole qualifying ordeal 
 with a team I didn't want and then I don't even get to play for the Cup! That was one of the biggest 
 "let downs" in the Fifa franchise in my opinion. 
  Overall the game is fun and the visuals are nice, but the players seem a little to glossy at times. 
 I also think the "kick function" is a little off. The button is too sensitive and it sends the 
 ball flying into the stands, but if you try to ease it up.... it's an easy grab for the goalie. 
 Good luck with this one guys. I would consider renting it before purchasing it like I did. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alex_is_da_best
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 2, 2006 9:35 am PT
Review:  Usually play pro evo but this has changed my mind it is the best game ever. The gameplay players 
 and the players raitings are right. Cant think of anything else so  
 a a a aa a a a a aa a a a a a a a a a a a a a ass ss s s s aa a a a a aa a a a aa a a aa a a a 
 aa a a a aa a aa a a aa a a aa a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a 
::::::

::::::
UserName: whitey3221
Rating: 4.5
Date: Feb 26, 2006 1:03 am PT
Review:  Amazing graphics as I'd expect from a 360 game. Gameplay is exceptionally realistic. Soccer players 
 have a distinct advantage simply because the gameplay is so realistic. However as the title says 
 it is the Road to FIFA World Cup, you don't even get to play in the World Cup. I'm amazed at how 
 EA made this game without even putting in the actual World Cup. That is the whole idea of the game 
 isn't it? Another problem with this game that affects the tilt and value is that this game is made 
 for Europeans and Europeans alone. The Road to World Cup feature is in the European tables only 
 no "CONCACAF", no Asia, no Australia, no Middle East, no Africa, and maybe most importantly no 
 South America. Also geared towards the European market is the team ratings. The United States is 
 rated lower than most European teams including Ireland, and also Mexico is rated higher as well. 
 The problem is that recently the U. S. was recently ranked 6th in the world. I know that Mexico 
 and Ireland we're not two of the teams ahead of them. This game is disappointing for one of the 
 first releases by EA. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DanH16
Rating: 5.7
Date: Feb 25, 2006 8:02 am PT
Review:  Well wat can i say ..... not that good to be onist compared to fifa 06 on ps2, quite a few features 
 not in this edition of the game. One of the feature i miss the most and makes me think of the game 
 being crap is that you cant save ya replys ? i really wanted that in fifa games since i started 
 playin them and they introduced it in fifa 06 so . you would think they would add it too this game 
 but nooo .... bad Downer !!!! lol . :P. The graphics are Stunning but in the real world everyone 
 wouldent be that shiney lol . The gameplay is not bad nothing really added that is good, overall 
 i would say the game has to be played but maybe not a game to be owned Dammmmmm I Bought It Lol 
 .. :P 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Danthecritic
Rating: 7.9
Date: Feb 17, 2006 6:15 pm PT
Review:  I can play football (soccer) games for hours without getting bored (when playing a friend or online) 
 this game makes you feel like you really are in controll of everything and looks the piece too. 
 i say its the best footy game on earth except maybe sensible soccer. I really think they just tuned 
 the graphic abit though its kinda me contradicting myself but what the heck they could of changed 
 the graphics to completly realistic instead of that wierd cartoony style stuff they use but no 
 they didnt im waiting for the next fifa with a complete revamp. but untill they do that it wont 
 get classic status at least not by me. i still say its worth more then the 6 gamespot are giving. 
 i think its because its football though they probably prefer american sports shame they all suck 
 basketball is the saviour of the sport well im babling sorry.
  my conclusion get the game because its a good game just not a great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stranger_tan17
Rating: 5
Date: Feb 14, 2006 7:15 pm PT
Review:  a great dissapointment!!! this game was very dissapointing and i am regreting the 10 dollars i 
 spent to rent this game. The graphics were not very good they almost looked glossy? this game lacked 
 some features that fifa 2005 had!! on free kicks you could not put ball spin or aim but instead 
 all you saw was the player!! shooting was bad as well when ever i took a shot it didnt look or 
 feal like a shot it felt more like a lob it was very sensative and there was no manual aim in your 
 shot!!! for all you fifa people out there i sugest u go with 2005 as it is b far my favourite fifa 
 game to date... i hope 2007 is much much better I LOVE XBOX 360!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: littldrumrboy28
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 12, 2006 6:42 pm PT
Review:  The game dissapoints me overall. The fact that there is only world teams is terrible and it makes 
 the game boring. My favorite soccer team is the Chicago Fire and in the entire game there is only 
 ONE player from the team. Its terribly dissapointing that there is no carrer mode. It makes the 
 game overall pointless to play becuase you gain nothing qualifing for the world cup. BUT... if 
 you can deal with world teams the game is still quite fun. Im a die hard soccer player and i feel 
 this istalation still gives me the feeling of really being in a soccer stadium and that im really 
 controlling the game on the field. Lets just hope Fifa 2007 looks just as good or better then this 
 but with everything else... that = sweetest soccer game ever! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MmMaAaDdDaAaSsS
Rating: 5.2
Date: Feb 9, 2006 11:26 am PT
Review:  what happened to the good old days of diving at the touch of a button (fifa 99) and changing the 
 commentary into hilariously fast portugese (ISS Pro) . now the game is about making money at the 
 least possible cost and in the shortest space of time. I recieved fifa as a present for my birthday. 
 i was extatic! i could finally win the world cup with england beating brazil 5-0 in the final!!! 
 i couldnt wait to get to the final. i turned the game on and found that i could choose only the 
 real european prelim group stage, a little bit dissapointing but i wanted to be england anyway 
 so, oh well. i make my way into the world cup finishing 2nd in the qualifying group behind wales (!) 
 and got hyped up as a video sequence started, preparing me for what more the game had in store. 
 the friendly people at fifa created a screen do you could see who you would be facing in the finals. 
 i pressed continue and it took me to a screen sayin congrats, you have qualified for the fifa world 
 cup. i looked at the menu and scrolled along. no i didn't want to see the prelim learderboards... nor 
 the records set... nor a button saying EXIT... but then there was no more. i searched all over the 
 screen and searched for a button that said something along the lines of continue to world cup but 
 no button has come to my attention... i've been searching for 2 weeks! now am i extremely blind 
 (if so, someone tell me) or have EA Sports and fifa made their biggest cock up EVER!!! this is 
 an absolute disgrace!!! i, personally, am hoping i can take the game back no bother, but, from 
 what i've heard, not many football (soccer to all you yanks and candians etc.) fans have had an 
 easy success.
  
  SOMEONE HELP ME!!!
  
  signed MmMaAaDdDaAaSsS
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Slim_11
Rating: 3.9
Date: Feb 8, 2006 7:48 pm PT
Review:  Now I love soccer, and FIFA has always been a good series. After FIFA 06 on the last gen consoles, 
 I was looking so forward to this game. But it is a HUGE letdown. The passing is horrible. They 
 have brought back being able to change the power of the passes, but it really makes no difference 
 in the power of the passes. This game is all look and no gameplay. And one of the worst things 
 is that you can't play in the actual tournament. And to score, you literally have to tap the shoot 
 button for it to go on net. And the goalies usually save it unless you are a good aimer, and usually 
 the goalies will catch every shot no matter how hard it is. And EA are releasing a new game before 
 the actual world cup where you can actually play in the world cup, AND qualify.... That renders 
 this game useless. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HRDKyoSaNim
Rating: 4.6
Date: Feb 7, 2006 2:36 pm PT
Review:  Mediocre doesn't begin to describe it guys... There seems to be a trend this year with EA sports, 
 which is to make sorry excuses of games for the 360, nowhere near as good as their current-gen 
 counterparts (I'm talking about Madden here of course) . They think just because of some graphical 
 upgrades afforded by the 360, they can get away with seriously lacking gameplay. For the first 
 time in a long time that I can remember, the GS editor's review of this game is actually not harsh 
 enough. First off, there is so much less content in this game than its non-world cup counterparts 
 for the current-gen that I really wonder why it costs an extra 10 bucks... I mean, the game's developers 
 clearly didn't do any work that would warrant an extra ten dollars. If anything, they did half 
 the work that should go into a full game, so we should pay half the price. 
  
  Gameplay:
  I understand that it's FIFA "Road to the World Cup," which suggests that it's about qualifying 
 for the World Cup, but I honestly didn't think it would stop there. I mean, in 2004 with the UEFA 
 Cup game, it was both the qualifying rounds and finals, and previous world cup games were just 
 the finals. This is the first EA FIFA world cup game that I can think of where you don't actually 
 get to win the FIFA world cup, which I must say, was quite disappointing. So you may ask, "What 
 do you get to win?" Well, you get these world cup look-a-likes from playing in these open tournaments 
 while on your way to qualifying for the world cup. Lame!!! BTW, this is also how you unlock 2 of 
 the only 6 Xbox Live achievements to be gotten by this game. There are also friendly matches that 
 you play along the way to no apparent avail seeing as they did away with the player morale of UEFA 
 2004 and teammate interaction of later FIFA installments. You also get road points that seem to 
 serve no purpose, as that's not what is used to unlock things. 
  You know, I would also think that they would have gotten the rules of soccer down by now, or maybe 
 my knowledge of the rules is errant. My understanding of the offside is that the ball has to be 
 coming from a fellow teammate while you are in the offside position. If the ball was a deflected 
 shot coming off of a defender, or if it was a pass from a defender that you intercept though in 
 an offside position, then it's not considered offside. They don't seem to comprehend this at EA. 
 Also, a while back, FIFA made it so that the goalie couldn't grab the ball with their hands if 
 it was coming off a pass from the foot/leg of a fellow teammate. So many times while I was playing 
 this unholy game, the goalie would break this rule, or take it with his hands from one of his defenders 
 who was dribbling the ball, with no foul given of course. Also, because games are in essence computer 
 programs, you would think it would be easy to determine which team last touched the ball before 
 it goes out of bounds. However, there have been occasions while I've been playing, that there is 
 no doubt in anyone's mind who the last person is to touch the ball, because it came from an errant 
 pass, or someone just ran out of bounds completely unopposed, etc. Somehow, the team to last touch 
 the ball remains in possession. AMAZING!! To be fair, this has worked both in my favor and against 
 me. But it absolutely p***es me off every time I see it.
  There was another problem involving gameplay and relates to how apparently dumb and/or lazy the 
 AI is in this game. If you would regain possession of the ball in the attacking third, no one on 
 your team would run up and help you until it's too late and you've probably since then lost possession 
 of the ball again. You can try sending someone on a run with a press of the appropriate button 
 on your controller, but that may sometimes send someone you didn't intend on the run, or the person 
 you intended goes on a run into a position where the through ball won't get passed the defenders. 
 Most of the time, your teammates are just happy to stand around, to close to you so that passing 
 would be pointless, or to close to the defenders, again, making it pointless. UUUUUUUUUGH!!!
  This was also mentioned in the GS review. There are only 72 playable teams, which excludes 132 
 other teams that actually played in the preliminaries for the 2006 World Cup. In the non-world 
 cup version of 06, there are hundreds of teams... Why God? Why?!!! It so happens that the team 
 I play with is there, which is Portugal... But it annoys me to no avail to know that I paid an 
 extra 10 dollars on a game for which EA did a whole lot less work.
  
  Graphics/ Physics:
  Now, the author of the GS review mentions that the crowd looks crappy, which I would agree with, 
 but that is the least of my concerns; I really don't care how the crowd looks. What I do care about 
 are the venues and the players, and I must admit... The venues look good, and the players/coaches/refs 
 look very much like their real life counterparts. There is one problem though with the players/refs/coaches 
 and the ball. There is always this aura around them whenever you get a close-up animation. It just 
 kind of irks me.
  And now for the pitfall of this game and the bane of my existence this games physics engine. 
 I really wish they had used the power of the 360 to get a good physics design/engine, even more 
 than I care about how much the character models look like their real-life counterparts. I mean, 
 you see games like Gears of War coming out on the 360, using the Unreal Engine, and with graphics 
 just as good if not better than this game's, I really wonder why this game's physics b-- w so much. 
 As was mentioned in the review by the GS author, the header physics are completely fudged. Not 
 only does the ball gravitate to the players' heads as the GS author mentions, as you can clearly 
 see in the replays, the ball doesn't even touch the player's head and somehow gets magically redirected 
 to the goal. It sometimes seems to be a whole foot away from the players' heads. WOW!!! Every time 
 you see it, it's like EA just gauged your eyes out, or poured rubbing alcohol into your eye sockets. 
 This brings me to my next point... slide tackling. This seems to have been a tough concept for 
 the developers at EA to tackle, not only in this installment, but every installment I've ever played. 
 What am I talking about here you may ask. I can't even describe it to you. If you've ever played 
 soccer, you'll know what I'm talking about. However, you don't need to have played soccer to see 
 on the replays of the slide tackles that many times, not one pixel has touched an opposing player's 
 pixels, and yet it causes an over the top fall. I guess some soccer players actually play like 
 that, diving on the turf looking for a foul, but it's horrid to see on a video game when it's not 
 intended.
  
  Sound:
  There's a pretty good eclectic sound track that you can fiddle with anyway if you don't like it. 
 The commentary is also pretty good, with a couple of weak points. The first weak point is that 
 it can get repetitive, especially the trivia, which the GS review also mentions. The second weakness 
 lies in the fact that sometimes the commentary comes in late. Also, it sometimes doesn't really 
 make sense with what just happened in the game. Part of that of course is due to the fact that 
 whenever the ball passes the goal line (back touchline) , even if it is after an overshot pass or 
 excessive dribble towards the touchline that goes out before the cross-in, it's considered as a 
 shot on goal by the game. I would have hoped by this late in the game with all the technological 
 advances, the computer program would recognize what the last button pressed (command into the computer 
 program) was. Instead, they use the formula [ball crosses back touchline = attempted shot on goal] ... 
 annoying and ber-lame when it shows the replay of it as though it were an important play during 
 the game.
  
  Replay Value:
  This game has little, if any, replay value. There is an online component, which from what I read 
 from the GS review, is also very lacking. Though I have Xbox Live, I will never play it online. 
 The mediocrity of this game repulses me too much to care. Read the GS review about the online play 
 if you care to know more about it. Don't buy this game unless you are hardcore soccer fan and want 
 it for collection purposes. Also, I guess it's nice to have for when your friends who are soccer 
 fans come over. It's good enough when just passing the time away, but it won't be the most exhilarating 
 gaming experience you can share with them. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BWSTSW2K
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 7, 2006 2:35 pm PT
Review:  Fifa 06: Road to Fifa World Cup has its problems, but at face value this is a good game, and a 
 tantalising glimpse ahead. The main problem with the game really comes down to what is perhaps 
 its nicest new feature - the graphics. Next gen they certainly are, but the frame rate on crowd 
 scenes and replays is quite off-putting. It is clear from the off that Fifa 06: Road to Fifa World 
 Cup was a rushed product, clearly shooting for that coveted launch day window games this early 
 on love to hit. This strategy sadly took its toll on other aspects of the game too - its gameplay 
 for example. 
  
  While the actual matches themselves are mostly slick and pleasant, some of the controls are flimsy 
 and not always perfect. If one thing can be said about the controls it is that they are not as 
 tight and refined as the original and thoroughly better Fifa 06. So, is Road to Fifa World Cup 
 a step forward, a step backward or just a lousy cash-in for the series to take advantage of next 
 gen hardware? To be honest, a bit of each. 
  
  It would have been prudent for EA to wait until it was time for Fifa 07 to hit, but as a debut 
 on the Xbox 360 to give its fans a tantalising glimpse at what next gen is all about, then this 
 game will likely tide you over for the next few months before far superior games come thundering 
 along. It is clear that when Fifa 07 arrives, visually it will make this game look utterly ridiculous 
 - something which may seem unbelievable at this stage, but true all the same. Road to Fifa World 
 Cup might have its problems, but once you adjust to those visuals, youll be positively giddy. 
 
  
  Overall Score:
  
  7.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: carb122
Rating: 6.8
Date: Feb 7, 2006 11:16 am PT
Review:  FIFA games are classics, goin all the way back to FIFA international on the sega mega drive, i've 
 always played the game and always will play the game, and FIFA RTFWC is another classic FIFA game, 
 but i was absolutely disgusted by the lag i experienced on live, 1 min i had the ball, then it 
 froze and suddenly my opponent scored, how can that be fun to play? how are u supposed to win and 
 get ranked? it's not guna happen, stick to 1 player, or playin with friends in ur bedroom, totally 
 abysmal for x-box live!!!! if i was u lot, i wud stick to FIFA 06 on orignal x-box or PS2, and 
 not get wrapped up in the fun of X-Box live 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alik2004
Rating: 7.7
Date: Feb 4, 2006 11:59 am PT
Review:  fifa 06 was one of the best soccer games i ever played well fifa and winning elven .
  
  so when i first fierd up fif 06 for the 360 the first thing i saw was the grapihcis and they were 
 stunning (in a good way) .
  
  they look veeeeerrrryyyy nice but the problem is not the gameplay or the graphics but the lack 
 of game modes.
  
  there are many teams that competed in the quailfing process and they are missing in this game, 
 many of the player s are not modeled accuretly such as henry of france he looks like him but not 
 like him, but some players are modeled correctl.
  
  there is not much to do in fifa06rtwc sadly casue it hase only a few modes and sadly if u are a 
 fan of the germen team then sorry u cant play in road to world cup mode cause they already quilfied 
 .the mulitiplayer is cool but fifa06's is better .
  
  so all in all this game is nice but as i said the game modes and ofcourse lack of teams be they 
 national or clubs is what brings the score down so id say its better to wait for 07 .
  but if u are a fan of the fifa franchise then rent it before u buy as for me i bought it and i 
 enjoyed it but not all that has tried it liked it so i would recccomend renting it first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: airjonathan2000
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 29, 2006 7:08 pm PT
Review:  I have been a FIFA fan since I was about 7 years old. So any time a new one comes out, I usually 
 go out and buy it the first day. When I got this game, I was hooked on it probably for the first 
 week or so playing non stop until i made it to the World Cup. Then it gets kinda boring because 
 you beat the game. However, I got xbox live and now I am hooked again. This game is a must buy 
 if you have xbox live, but if you don't, I believe you should stick with the FIFA for the regular 
 xbox. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: luckei
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 25, 2006 1:03 pm PT
Review:  fifa fifa fifa fifa fifa fifa fifa fifa fifa fifa fifa fifa fifa fifa fifa fifa ffifa fifa fifa 
 ifa fifa fifa fifa fifa fifa fifa fifa fifa fifa fifa fifa fifa fifa fifa fifa fifa fifa fifa fifa 
 fifa fifa fifa fifa fifa fifa fifa fifa fifa fifa ffifa fifa fifa ifa fifa fifa fifa fifa fifa 
 fifa fifa fifa fifa fifa fifa fifa fifa fifa fifa fifa fifa fifa fifa fifa fifa fifa fifa fifa 
 fifa fifa fifa fifa fifa ffifa fifa fifa ifa fifa fifa fifa fifa fifa fifa fifa fifa fifa fifa 
 fifa fifa fifa fifa fifa fifa fifa fifa fifa
  
  fifa used to be the best footbal game around and then along came pro evoulution at the begining 
 fifa could handle pro evolution and then pro evoulution kept on geting better and then finnaly 
 were better then fifa. fifa would try there best to get the crown back but they couldn't. but im 
 glad to say this year with releses of fifa 06 and fifa road to world cup they ave a good chance 
 a getting thier crown back. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doughboi1
Rating: 5.6
Date: Jan 22, 2006 4:46 pm PT
Review:  fifa 06 ... world cup with a hole in the bottom.. 
  the game itself isnt to bad but the soccer community must be dissapointed when they finally qualify 
 for the world cup and not even get to play in it. The shooting in this game take almost as long 
 to get used to as it takes to qualify. xbox needs to stick to the same agenda as before and let 
 us have more of a choice.. the whole point of games to me is to play.. let us create players and 
 stadiums, add more moves and special kicks.. as for playing this game to get your kicks... dont 
 bother, just go outside in your back yard and kick the ball around with a sibling, you'd have more 
 fun.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: UnLiMiTeD801
Rating: 4
Date: Jan 21, 2006 10:39 pm PT
Review:  The game is not 360 worthy. The whole presentation in this game is terribal. The game itself is 
 a medeocore soccer game at best. the fans in the game suck and are n64 graphics. There is cardboard 
 fans. No the fans that are cardboard are better looking than this. The game itself has xbox 1 graphics. 
 The gameplay it back and forward. If you need a soccer game pick up the new one for xbox that was 
 said to be the best soccer game ever. EA has gotten lazy in there games. Don't waste time on this 
 garbage. The worst part about the game is it could have been good if you cleaned up the presentation 
 and you actually make the controls so it can be a 3 button soccer game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eurochamps2004
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jan 21, 2006 4:04 pm PT
Review:  Fifa 06 for the ps2 was one of the best soccer games made to date. It had the gameplay , ball physics, 
 great graphics , good voive over, club teams and an amazing amount of features. Now Ea decided 
 to make a next gen version. So from what we can see from almost all their other next gen sports 
 game they decided to screw all those amazing game features in at ass. They also got rid of the 
 club teams ( as dissapointing as it is no being able to see manchester united in Hi-def im content 
 with the international teams) . On the flip side in think they have more national teams them they 
 ever had before. Litchenstien and Armenia!!!! You will also definantly see reconizable players 
 on the more famous teams (though you cant say so much about the coaches) . And for the most part 
 the character modles are really good looking. Though sometimes they repeat anaimations during the 
 cut scenes. The stadiums are amazing and you can even see the grass swaying in the wind during 
 free kicks and replays. The blurred affect isnt horrible it gives you the illusion of distance. 
 Though it leaves you feeling that they added it to half ass rendering the spectators. Now on to 
 sound... the chanting of the crowed and the on field action are accurate and immersive. The commentary 
 is extremely well done and the trivia is nice though be prepared to hear it repeat if you play 
 the same match up several times. And while i do miss Franz Ferdinand the licenced music is great. 
 Gameplay is also well done and rivals that of the winning eleven series. Though id like to know 
 why my defenders like to run all the way up to the mid field line once in a while leading up to 
 a huge breakaway by the other team. Now to my other big complaint about this otherwise great game. 
 NO FEATURES!!! Sure you can play qualifications but that only lasts for so long. The career mode 
 on the current gen games was amazing its just so saddening that they decided to half ass the features 
 (by using the term half ass im being generous) and charge you the extra 10 bucks. Now to the loading 
 screens. I like it , it takes your mind off the nice 2 minute loading screen but ill take the career 
 ,ode over it any day. Online is playable despite the occasional lag but its back to the old EA 
 lobbies. Again not a match for current gen features. Over all this is a fun soccer game and if 
 you are as big as a fan of interantional soccer as me its a must buy. Its also a must by if you 
 are into playing it in short bursts with a few friends. Otherwise you will be wondering why it 
 cost so much. It could have been amazing but they decided to half ass it. We can hope they see 
 their mistake in time for 07. The graphics and sound of this and the features of the current gen 
 games would make the best fifa game to date. Until then stick to the current gen version unless 
 you have a thing for Hi-Def Armenians running on swaying grass. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Model-007
Rating: 1.9
Date: Jan 21, 2006 2:43 pm PT
Review:  FIFA is my all time favourite soccer game, i loved it on the Playstaion 2 and Xbox, even the PSP 
 version was very good. But was i in for a shock ! This is not only the worst FIFA game ever made, 
 its also one of the worst Xbox 360 games available. I dont know what EA was thinking or even why 
 they had to think. Even if they simply took FIFA 2006 of the Xbox and gave it a simple graphical 
 uplist it would have been twenty times better than this game.
  
  Gameplay:
  If you are thinking of buying this gane, you might-aswell get a bucket of popcorn and lay your 
 controller to rest for a few minutes. The whole game is very mechanical and the ball seems to be 
 moving through some sort of slots like on a fixed path. Your opponents behaves like Shaolin Soccer 
 players and have the ability to move so fast that the ball wont even come near you, however unlike 
 what you might think. You are playing in slow motion, the controlls are delayed to such an extent, 
 that by the time your player registers what you have pressed, the other team is aldready jumping 
 up and down cheering on as they hit they thousandth goal. The player movement is really bad and 
 there is little to no chance that you will be able to get the nahg of the game.
  
  Graphics:
  Oh my gosh ! I dont know where to start. First of all from the very beginning of the 
 game, the framerate keeps dropping after every 5 seconds, its soo irritating that it makes you 
 want to split the disc in half. The players are all nice n shiny, it looks like theyve been through 
 some sort of slime bath before entering onto the field. Looks like EA liked the special effects 
 of F. E. A. R a lot. The corwd is like a vibrating block, and parts of this block moving together 
 in such harmony, it looks like they are dancing to a song or something. But you cannot stare at 
 the crowd for too long or your eyes might start to water cause of all the distortion. The ball 
 seems to have a glowing light around it maybe infested by some sort of ghost or something, that 
 would explain why it likes to moove around on its own. Even the players have a "shine" around them. 
 Either the have really really clean outfits, or even they are infected by some sort of spirit. 
 When pulled up then entore field with players and crowds looks shabby and bad.
  
  Sound:
  I am so pissed off at EA. Normally, even if a game is NTSC J it has English Audio and Language 
 put into in if your console is set to English language. But, the lazy a**es that they are, they 
 didnt think it important to include that. I had to suffer from such weird a** Japanese commentry. 
 The commentator dosent seem to be excited about the game at all, and even when the ball is almost 
 into the goal he still speaks in his one toned voice. Just baad. The one and only thing i like 
 are the songs they play on the main menu which thankfully are in English. 
  
  Season Mode:
  HAH ! This is a joke, its like they have grid a set of friendly matches together, 
 and voila, you have a "Road to World Cup" mode. **** ! I mean you dodnt even get to win the World 
 Cup ! Its not like the friendsly matches are any good because the poor everything else. Xbox Live 
 mode is pathetic, too much lag to even bother playing it again.
  
  all i have to say is i am surpried and appauled to see that EA had the audasity to price this game 
 at 60$, forget that, i dont know how they could even let this game enter the market. I dont know 
 how GameSpot gave this even a 6/10. It is really bad, dont come near it with a 10ft pole. If your 
 browsing through games and you happen to spot this, run run far away ! Sprint at the speed of light 
 ! Dont even look at the cover ! I would rather have burnt my cash than spent it on this crap. This 
 game plain sucks, and ontop of that to have to play it in japanese is just disgusting. *smashes 
 ENTER, walks off to play Call of Duty 2*
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: muzzster_14
Rating: 7.2
Date: Jan 20, 2006 12:44 pm PT
Review:  As you might of guessed, Fifa 06 Road To Fifa World Cup takes the format of playing as your selected 
 nation in the qualifying stages of next years competition set to be played in Germany. There are 
 no club teams in Fifa 06 Road To The World cup and there are only 72 nations to choose from. There 
 is no short of 132 nations missing from the single player mode. Nations such as Brazil, USA, Argentina 
 and many more of the majour teams have been left out of the game and the game focuses on the European 
 qualifying stages. If you wish to play as a nation out-side of Europe, your only option is to create 
 a custom tournament.
  
  If you decide to play as a European nation then you will be placed in a qualifying group of five 
 or six teams, which you will have to play twice. Also throughout the qualifying games you will 
 be required to play friendly matches against teams which have invited you to play them. Also there 
 are two fictional tournaments to play in and after the first time you play in these it can come 
 as a bit of a chore.
  
  Also in Fifa Road To The World Cup there are other options to play in. Things such as:
  Custom 
 leagues and tournaments.
  Freindly matches.
  Games via Xbox live.
  
  The xbox live feature is very average. The lobby system is very basic with you returning to the 
 main menu after every match. The performance online much depends on your oppenent and in my opinion 
 i have not experienced too much lag. Also, the feature of people who dissconnect immediately lose 
 points force people not to lag out. Another downpoint of the Xbox live feature is there are no 
 tournaments or leagues to play in but the game does come with a leaderboard to view. This leaderboard 
 allows you to compare your statistics with others in the same country as you, your freinds and 
 the top 100 players.
  
  A big plus point in this game is the Authentic strips, player names and stadiums. All of this make 
 the game realistic and make the players more reconisable.
  
  A different feature of the game is during load screens you have the chance to kick a ball about 
 with a few of the players of your choosen football nation. 
  
  The graphics of the game are pretty impressive to look at at first glance but to me they do not 
 show enough of an improvement to the normal Xbox Fifa 06 game. The players are easily recognised 
 which is very good but when the fans are on camara it looks horrific. 
  Other bad things you may find:
  Laggy player hair.
  Baige yellow cards.
  Bad positioning 
 of camaras during substitutions.
  
  The comentary of the game is fairly accurate. Andy Gray and Martin Tyler fit the role perfectly 
 and brighten up those dull moments when getting beat. The only bad thing about the commentary is, 
 when there is not much happening in the game, and the commentaters droan on, and on, and on about 
 England, England and yes England.
  
  All and all Fifa 06 Road To The Fifa World Cup is an average soccer game and offers good online 
 fun but it does not live up to the expecttions of Fifa fans and Fifa seems to be falling behind 
 Pro Evolution in Soccer games. To me it was a total let down and I can only hope things get better 
 for Fifa games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: el_diablo5711
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 19, 2006 11:57 am PT
Review:  game play is fun and realistic, and the AI is more advanced than any of the other games to date. 
 there are some bugs with the free kick and corner systems, but all in all the gameplay is very 
 good, especially with the addition of the on-the-fly changes
  
  the uniforms and player graphics look very nice, all coming together fairly well. they tend to 
 look a little bit like plastic, but thats only if you look hard. it is true though that the crowd 
 looks 2D and just plain awful
  
  the commentary can be great at times, supplying little known facts about countries and players 
 alike, yet also completely unrealistic, as it is when a goalkeeper picks up a ground ball which 
 is greeted by "UNBELIEVABLE SAVE!"
  
  i really liked this game, the good really weighs out the bad, and online is still mildly fun to 
 play. however, if you are in fifa only because of manager mode (fifa 06 for xbox's manager mode 
 is very good) then this game isnt for you 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Crimson_Raven
Rating: 6.1
Date: Jan 14, 2006 6:47 pm PT
Review:  While Playing this game you learn why Americans play Football and the rest of the World plays um 
 Football.
  
  Ok, I liked some of the other soccer, sorry, Football games that released last year, but for some 
 reason I seriously Hated FIFA 06.
  The gameplay looked good and the cut-scenes looked good, but how come all of the players looked 
 like Crack Babies. I'm serious they looked terrible. 
  
  I had the hardest time playing the game and I play or tried to play all the way through to win 
 the Cup. But after 4 attempts I never reached the finals even with Brazil or Germany, the top 2 
 rated teams in the game. It had some really difficult controls and collisions seemed far off.
 
  
  I'm not one to totally hate on a game or bash it totally without finding something good about the 
 game, but I could not find any reason why I shouldn't.
  
  Even after playing a few times with a friend against one another or trying to play together on 
 the same team its still had no great aspects in the game.
  
  Ok now I just thought of one cool thing, The Loading Screen let you and your friend play a mini 
 soccer game while the game loads, so that is one good thing.
  
  Well to wrap it up, Please RENT this game if you need the achievements for your gamerscore or you 
 just have to play everything thats released on the Xbox 360.
  
  Thanks for reading my review on this game, Please check out my others.
  Love you all 
  -Crim
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: chunkeylover
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jan 7, 2006 9:33 am PT
Review:  Fifa 06 :road to fifa world cup is a football masterpiece. I mean this game is really easy to learn 
 all the buttons. You can choose any football team you want, and the one you go against. when you 
 get playing the game its like it is real because of the graphics. Graphics makes you see a whole 
 new world in games because you can actually see the sweat and hairs on the players. The gameplay 
 of fifa 06 is simple and fun. Anyway, i totally reccomend this awsome game to all those crazy football 
 fan out there hope you enjoy this game as much as i do. Peace out 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mamalykhan
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 31, 2005 7:06 pm PT
Review:  This game is one of those games that I will never get tired of. When you start or put the game 
 in the 360 you have to choose your best team. Than when something is loading you can practice with 
 them. I think this is one of the best things that I have seen in the next generation. The other 
 things that are great are the graphics and the gameplay. The graphics are amazing in a way that 
 everyone thought that the game is real. The gameplay is easy to learn and is fun too. I would recommand 
 this game to anyone is a soccerfan or people who like to play sport games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: UCBearcat89
Rating: 6
Date: Dec 31, 2005 10:59 am PT
Review:  Issues I ran into when playing this version of FIFA:
  1. The shadows when playing at Old Trafford making following the game play difficult, especially 
 when play goes into the shadows. Also, the frame rate in this stadium appears to suffer.
  2. Left trigger does not trigger a run immediately by a player off the ball. Very frustrating!!!
 
  3. I found myself accidently hitting the left and right buttons just above the triggers when trying 
 to pass or lob the ball. This caused the pass not to happen. Instead, the player would do a ball 
 fake.
  4. I really miss the club career mode offered by FIFA 06 on the original Xbox.
  
  Overall, this release felt like a beta release and not a polished product. Perhaps EA rushed this 
 one out to meet the Xbox 360 deadline? I hope the April FIFA release the covers the World Cup tournament 
 is much better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stumpymacde
Rating: 7.7
Date: Dec 31, 2005 3:37 am PT
Review:  THE Game of Fifa is Awesome, fair play it isn't the most amazing game you have ever seen as the 
 gameplay still isn't at it's best but, the graphics are very good, especially on a high-def tv 
 it's just like watching a real game on TV. The players on normal tv's look abit rubbery i must 
 admit but still, it has surpased at the moment for their first attempt at a game on the 360 has 
 proved them right, as it is wicked ! it is a shame that their aren't any club teams or season but 
 then if you read the title you will know anyway, 'Road To World Cup' hence only having cup teams. 
 Game is kind of short i must admit but is VERY GOOD GAME, MUST GET, and shut up about PS3, of course 
 it will be better as it has another year to make improvements on Xbox 360 but have you seen te 
 controls for the PS3, oh my god, worst things ever !!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KojiBrother
Rating: 5.3
Date: Dec 30, 2005 4:35 pm PT
Review:  NOTE TO EA: Achievements are supposed to be achievable, thats why they call them achievements. 
 
  
  Got to give EA some credit, they made a great looking football game. Unfortunately, thats all 
 there is too it; a great looking football game. While I wait for PDZ, DOA4, and Kameo to arrive 
 to my house from Gamestop, (sorry EB, but you charge too much for APO shipping) I have been playing 
 a lot of FIFA: Road to the World cup, and Geometry Wars, and Bejewelled 2, and Wik: Fable of Souls, 
 and Hexic HD, and many other arcade games. So really Ive been looking forward to earning some 
 points while I wait for the real games.
  
  The whole reason I bought FIFA was to have a game to show my Dad how awesome the system was. He 
 got it for us for Christmas, and I wanted to show him the next-gen features Sadly, PGR was not 
 on the shelf when I went to the store, but FIFA was my second since I had seen all the videos and 
 trailers. The sad thing is this game does not deliver on many levels. First off, lets talk about 
 the gameplay.
  
  Win Cup Qualifier
  Yup, thats right, the gameplay sucks. For a football game, its hyper realistic and unbeatable. 
 Not worth the sweat and frustration that is needed just to make a goal. I am not sure of this but 
 I am sure my control stick is coming loose thanks to this one game. I would love to say the characters 
 handle like a dream, but each character moves with so much realism that it works against the player. 
 The game is hard, and to make matters worse, the computer player is a mind reader on its easiest 
 setting. Thats right; you might as well hang up the towel if the CPU gets the ball, because all 
 you really want to do is button mash. 
  
  The controls are great, when no one is trying to tackle you, and with no defense, players are often 
 left empty handed as soon as they enter defensive territory on the pitch. It aint an easy road 
 to hoe, but a goal could be made a player on sheer luck rather than skill. Against another human 
 though, the game might actually be fun, but how many of us will have some one else play the other 
 side with us just to get achievements. Which brings me to my next point: the games achievement 
 system is broken. I have completed several created tournaments and I have failed to receive one 
 achievement from the game. It could be user error, or just negligence on my part, but these achievements 
 are ridiculous. They are the equivalent to get 200GS for completing the game. Its absolutely 
 outrageous and absurd, hrumph! 
  
  A Game of Chance
  Sure, they made the game for the skillful, but this game isnt geared toward the casual player 
 WHO ULTIMATLY BUYS THE GAME! The point of making achievements is to have players actually achieved 
 them. I have checked out players who have this game and the majority of them have not earned a 
 single achievement for this game. Some even have discouraged renting this. I want to say that the 
 online mode is probably the best, and with no online co-op so you could at least win once in a 
 blu-ray-disc-moon would have been nice, but the game is seriously flawed. 
  
  The Good
  Now its time for me to talk about the good parts of the game. I have written something just for 
 the occasion. Eh, hemmmm! 
  
  FIFA: Road to the World Cup 06, is one of the best looking Xbox 360 games to grace the system 
 to date. With outstanding visuals and landmark sound, the game offers the player an expirence that 
 matches live broadcast TV. The game looks and plays like a real football game and is sure to impress 
 both casual and hardcore players with its graphics and the amazing soundtrack. Its 90 minutes of 
 fun!
  
  Thats enough of the marketing line I am willing to stomach. in short, the game sucks, avoid it, 
 and dont rent it unless you got some Italian friends, like I do, and you got nothing else to watch 
 on tele. 
  
  This game should receive a four, but to be fair. (EA tried, something) a five would be alright. 
 I will not buy this game next year.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamer-t
Rating: 6.2
Date: Feb 8, 2006 11:04 pm PT
Review:  Ea all ways know how to build expectations, and make sure that every guy on planet knows there 
 games. But lets take a look at FIFA 06 road to fifa world cup.
  
  Ea took away all the clubs in this game, which after my opinion is not that wrong. But the fact, 
 that you can't play the actual world cup, is insane, and when you play the game, you have the feeling, 
 that the only purpose with the game, is to make ea a hole lot of money.
  
  That was a look at the non in-game things, so now we have to look at what its like to play a game 
 of football, which is the most important thing. The graphics is good, and smooth, and you can really 
 see that its next-gen. The sound and the atmosphere in the game is also great, for ensemble, when 
 you hear the national songs. But then we need to talk about the flaws. The gameplay is so stiff, 
 that it makes packman look like something coming up in the future. Pro evolution soccer (winning 
 eleven in the US) is just so much better, when you look at gameplay. But after all its the only 
 football game to the 360, and the graphics are so good that you can buy it only for that reason, 
 but when PES/WE is coming out, its gonna beat the **** out of eas franchise. Cheers 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WhiskyTango
Rating: 3
Date: Dec 29, 2005 8:47 pm PT
Review:  this game sucks. It looks pretty and that's it. I love fifa but the have taken any and all fun 
 out of the game. The made a **** game slapped some pretty on it and thought that would be good 
 enough. Well it's not good enough it sucks and they are a bunch of **** whoever they are. **** 
 you guys. The players moves are delayed the PK are not cool anymore they made it so all you do 
 is press the b button instead of curving and aiming the ball like in the old games. That was always 
 fun and now they have taken that out because it was probably to hard to put in. This is the most 
 hafe assed game I have ever played. I hope to God these people don't sell many copies. the only 
 reason I bought it was because I had so much fun with the old versions. Go to hell Fifa makers. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JJMikhail
Rating: 6.7
Date: Dec 29, 2005 8:57 am PT
Review:  I supposed its down to what people heard or wanted to hear about this game. Its no letdown, only 
 a let down to those who think it was the same game and a big move up from FIFA 2006, but seriously, 
 the game has moved up, its a start.
  
  I expect to see the next FIFA at the top but for the mean time, it keeps me drooling over what 
 might be the best football game to come out, FIFA 2007 should be the big next generation game. 
 The graphics pretty much on most xbox 360 games is going to be great so I dont take that into account 
 in this case, its simply down to what the game is supposed to do, keep you going till the world 
 cup, then it pretty much expires.
  
  Hold onto the game I say until you support your team on the road to Germany, then think about what 
 could await us in the next six months. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: berlindex
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 28, 2005 4:25 pm PT
Review:  great game with great graphics, great game play, great almost every thing except for some players 
 faces who look monstrous. this is a great game (the BEST soccer game ever and WAY BETTER THAN EVERY 
 PES game ever) the greatest soccer experience i have ever experienced and i can say this cazz i 
 have all xbox and ps2 fifa games. d d d d d df d fd f df d gf rt rgt rgtr eh g tr h erh re rh er 
 gh ery e hy t er e e h th e rth e r r he rddh f eh df hfd gr d h re gtfdh rg seh gdh d s hd rse 
 gdddsgn hsd ffffdsgdsf fs se ghsf eg 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MasterHaloChic
Rating: 2.9
Date: Dec 26, 2005 10:11 pm PT
Review:  This is by far the worst game I have ever seen, all it has is the World Cup, waaaay to short for 
 even $30. I'd rather get it for the origanal Xbox rather the 360, but its your choice on wasting 
 money on basicly just a movie rather than a game, the controls are too confusing and hard to adjust 
 to, its way too easy, and is just no fun without a challange, this is the downfall of EA Sports. 
 Horrible multiplayer and Live support, it lags like every second and the "co-op" is just plain 
 wrong, I mean Microsoft gave them a huge canvas, and all they did was paint sick figures, but dont 
 get me wrong, the grapics and sound are nice, but that dosent exuse the horrible game modes and 
 multiplayer funtions, whoever said this was an awesome game is a huge lier, NEVER EVER BUY THIS 
 GAME, SPEND YOUR MONEY ON CALL OF DUTY 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cobalt_TAW
Rating: 8.4
Date: Dec 24, 2005 7:16 pm PT
Review:  The game is just exactly what you read on the tin, it's "JUST" the road to the worldcup, so no 
 chance of trying to win the worldcup after you've qualified. That saying this game is pretty decent, 
 the graphics are sweet the kits look good and the player detail is quite impressed even if they've 
 made Wayne Rooney look more like he's 50 years old rather than 20. The gameplay is ok to, nothing 
 revolutionary, but enough to keep most football fans entertained. I've heard alot of people slating 
 the game, saying it sucks compared to Fifa 2006 on the xbox, and compared against the features 
 that game has to offer i guess it does seem like it's lagging behind. BUT.......... this game has 
 been totally made from scratch for the 360, and for anyone looking for a football game for the 
 360 this is all there is right now, and overall it's not that bad. My advice is to buy this game 
 with a pinch of salt, don't expect to play every league under the sun with a monsterous amount 
 of teams to choose from. It's basically just 72 teams and the chance to qualify for the 2006 world 
 cup. If your like me and you love football and love to spend afew hours a day playing a football 
 game on your next gen console, then buy Fifa road to worldcup, otherwise if your looking for something 
 extra like the chance to play in a hundred different league's and play against teams like Real 
 Madrid in the champions league, then stick to Fifa 2006.
  Peace :-) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zonage007
Rating: 3.2
Date: Dec 22, 2005 10:17 am PT
Review:  This game sucks. 72 teams total. I mean this is a total letdown for all FIFA fans out there. And 
 it really feels like EA rushed this game. Besides the graphics ( which are great) the game play 
 and all features have been lost. I feel bad for myself that I even ought it. The fans as you have 
 heard look like crap. and some people may say that doesn't matter but it does. And who the heck 
 just wants to qualify, I want to play in the cup. At least you can recognize the players and the 
 uniforms are great looking aswell, but all the features are gone. Everything that made this game 
 whta it is today is gone. PLEASE! do not buy this game if ur a huge soccer fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: for_the_horde
Rating: 6.8
Date: Dec 21, 2005 2:21 pm PT
Review:  The game modes in FIFA 06 for the xbox 360 are very weak compared to the other ports on the last-gen 
 consoles. There are only international teams in Road to world cup. 
  
  The graphics are superb! Just outstanding and are one of the best of any game. Every little detail 
 of real life football has been added. For example: most of the players actions are exactly like 
 their real life counterparts and their faces are perfected. 
  
  On live this game has a huge downside. The framerate is just awful and the communication is bad. 
 The leaderboard could be made better but it is only FIFA. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cleistenez
Rating: 3.2
Date: Dec 19, 2005 4:14 pm PT
Review:  I usually love all soccer games. This one however was not anything special. Waste of money to buy, 
 waste of time to play. Graphics could be better, and everything else about it just plain sucked. 
 If you're going to buy a soccer game, just buy Fifa '06 as it is much more worthwhile. In my opinion, 
 EA could have put much more use of their money, and time into any other game but this one. I bought 
 it, played it, sold it the next day. In conclusion, I hope no one after reading about Fifa '06: 
 Road to Fifa World Cup even thinks about buying this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: esterminador
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 14, 2005 7:45 am PT
Review:  This game has a very limited competitions, i know that the only competition that is OK, is the 
 classification, and i think is kind of dumb. 
  
  But i know this game was not made for people that wanted to play the leagues of the teams, or the 
 world cup. This game was made focusing just on the graphics and movements of the players, and they 
 did a super good job with it. I have been playing FIFA sense 98, and they have done a really good 
 job sense then. 
  
  This FIFA is not one of the best ones, but all the things tha it has like the realistic movements, 
 graphics, the strategic way that you can play depending on the soccer player's unique abilities, 
 makes this game a great game.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: h0s7a
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 13, 2005 1:02 pm PT
Review:  Look's good...... but the ball is... same like FIFA 2006\05\04\03.......
  For Playstation 2 ???
  Graphic level is ... Amazing!
  Well for EA Sports - this is great... but 
 I still think:"Pro Evolution Soccer"5 RULz
  My country - Bulgaria - is they in the game???
  For PC this game will be so... boring - In game world have two ... rules - Playstation and XboX 
 - this is it!
  
  More 100 words..... i don't know what more
  I like screens of the game and I think EA Sports can do MORE work for Soccer Gameplay!!!!
  KONAMI 
 is my favourite for this genre for games.
  Maybe FIFA 2007 will be good :)
  That's it - Byeee 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dvlsis
Rating: 2.5
Date: Dec 12, 2005 9:58 am PT
Review:  EA has lost it. This year's FIFA '06: Road to FIFA World Cup was Abysmal and Disasterous. There 
 is no other way to put it. Compared to another soccer game, (World Soccer Winning Eleven 8 International) 
 It is much inferior in gameplay, controls and reality. Though I never liked EA's "arcade-gameplay-style", 
 This one went beyond limits. Do not buy this. If you are curious on how bad it is, just rent it, 
 and I betcha It won't take you more than two games to find out how bad it is.
  
  Difficulty is easy and it won't take you long considering you have played soccer games before 
::::::

::::::
UserName: abanks
Rating: 8.6
Date: Dec 11, 2005 1:46 pm PT
Review:  I bought this game without really looking into it, i have had every Fifa Football since 95, so 
 when it arrived i was surprised to see it was only road to world cup and there are no premiership 
 sides !!
  
  So a little disappointed i opened it up and and started to play, the graphics are great, the unlockables 
 are easy to obtain (provided you qualify all the way to the end) . Gameplay is really good there 
 are a few annoying things with it compared to previous versions:
  
  Your whole team, regardless of formation setting insist on sitting behind the halfway mark, meaning 
 that you end up running solo to goal alot !!
  
  The after-goal cutscenes can be jerky at times (although my 360 is being returned for hardware 
 problems)
  
  But a good player just needed more teams, although i do really like the pre-loader and the way 
 you have a kick around before each game load, giving you the chance to enhance your skills.
  
  Roll on Fifa 07 (with club teams) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xternal
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 27, 2005 2:03 pm PT
Review:  Truely is amazing, I've not played it much but goodness me, think you've played fifa? Pro evolution 
 beats it's generation console game, but this is out of the league, it's absolutely amazing, at 
 some points the graphics look a bit plastic, but huh, you like the PES 5 Thierry henry graphic? 
 Check this, it's as if it's not graphic, it's unreal, truely is out of this world, PS3 To beat 
 this? Ha, no chance,
  never be better, maybe able to draw but goodness that'll take some beating, can you imagine the 
 next generation? i don't think there is a next generation, otherwise i'd name it a DVD. 
  
  If your a Soccer fan, Hit the mall and get an X360, get fifa 06 with it and play this, you will 
 be sweating it's amazing the graphical ability is unbelievable, i knew microsoft had some sort 
 of capability but ha! never though they'd be able to press on as well as they did with this, it's 
 out of this world truely spectacular honestly, I'm not exagerrating, get it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IloveGodcards
Rating: 6
Date: Dec 7, 2005 5:44 pm PT
Review:  All I have to say about this game that I expected more, the graphics are good but the game play 
 and every thing else was so boring, one of the borest game you will ever play. All I have to say 
 right now is boo boo boo boo boo boo boo boo boo boo boo boo boo boo boo boo baoo boo boo boo boo 
 boo boo boo boo boo boo boo boo boo boo boo boo boo boo boo boo boo boo boo boo boo boo boo boo 
 boo boo boo boo boo boo boo boo.
  This game came close to being the number one boring game ever, but king kong beat it to it. One 
 game I do recommmend is Dead or Alive 4 that is going to come out dec 14, reserve it now!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: arthurvdwal
Rating: 8.4
Date: Dec 5, 2005 1:26 am PT
Review:  I played this game for maybe 10 minutes but I must say, it were 10 beautiful minutes. It's maybe 
 not original but it shows us how Fifa will look in the future on other systems. EA always releases 
 Fifa World Cup games before a WC. The good thing about this game is that EA shows us that the graphics 
 of Fifa have changed after looking at the same graphics for the last 5 years. 
  I do not expect a lot of features in this game but it's probably worth buying only for the multiplayer 
 mode. I really dont mind that the rest of the gameplay sucks. I just enjoy playing a world cup 
 tournament with my homies. That is much more fun then a lame competition. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mclakers
Rating: 6
Date: Dec 1, 2005 4:19 pm PT
Review:  EA. EA. EA. WHAT ARE U SMOKING? We are talking about fifa, this game is a dissapointment. No clubs, no 
 franchise, no practice just tons of international teams, gameplay is ok but could have been better, 
 graphics are nice but thats it. online play is good, sometimes theres some lag, but overall gameplay 
 is good. So whats missing? We need clubs, some sort of franchise mode, some tips on gameplay from 
 winning elleven series, and we have the best soccer game ever. Final verdict. If you love soccer 
 buy it, but if you are so so. not  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
 =========================== ------------------------------------------ ========================================================== 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Niwdeh
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 29, 2005 4:57 pm PT
Review:  I think that Fifa 06 is the best to date soccer game. It is just perfect. I has awesome graphics, 
 sound, and easy to play. Those people that say this game sucks, they don't know anything of soccer 
 games. Those people need to play the game, so they see how good it is. There are a lot of people 
 that think like me. We know what a real soccer game is all about. There are people that say that 
 Winning Eleven 8 is better than Fifa 06, those people are really stupid. I think those people are 
 blind. Fifa 06 has way better graphics then Winning Eleven 8. Fifa 06 rocks!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: samsalek
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 28, 2005 10:25 am PT
Review:  Many peoples said that Fifa 2006 RTWC is one of the worst game of this series, but honestly, it's 
 not true. In fact this game is the improved version of Fifa Soccer 2006 that brings new cinematic 
 with better graphic and effects.
  And many of opponents said that this game only included national teams as one of this game's weakness! 
 I think they didn't read the name of of the game! It's Road to World Cup!!! EA made UEFA Champions 
 league game before and nobody asked why national teams weren't included !
  This game includes world's best national teams that trying to reach World Cup 2006 Germany with 
 best cinematic and details for national teams that ever made... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SnowPantz
Rating: 4.8
Date: Nov 27, 2005 8:41 pm PT
Review:  Unnecessary lack of teams, 95% of shots taken by the left foot??? While qualifying the repetition 
 of commentator facts is hard to take. Since, I enjoy the footie so, I am enjoying playing.... but 
 what were they thinking on some of this stuff, I'll never know. EA is either being cheap, rushing 
 or lazy.... they need some competition to slap them in the face. Happy to see the Netherlands finally 
 make it into the game, but that is one of the few "Highlights" that I can comment on. I was expecting 
 much more and those expections were not unreasonable nor were they met. Long live the footie, but 
 please make me a better game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: psycho30
Rating: 6.2
Date: Nov 27, 2005 10:18 am PT
Review:  No EPL? No Bundesliga? No MLS, for petes sake? And I paid an extra $10 for this? Stick w/ the regular 
 Xbox version for now. (for those who don't know, EPL=English Premier League) . Only reason to buy 
 is the graphics upgrade, and if you only follow national soccer, it'll be ok. Gameplay is the same 
 if you've played any other FIFA game. Otherwise, don't bother! I find it hard to believe that all 
 the league teams are not included for what you are paying for. It'll be interesting to see if all 
 the next gen games from EA are stripped down like this... Madden for 360 doesn't even a season mode, 
 for God's sake. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xxadixx
Rating: 5.3
Date: Nov 26, 2005 12:49 pm PT
Review:  To me this is probably one of the worst FIFA games that I have ever played. I was really dissapointed. 
 My question is I guess why couldnt they make it more like the previous FIFA games like FIFA 05 
 for original xbox. That game is 10 times better than this game. Just hope that the next game they 
 decide to make is not as bad as FIFA 05: Road To World Cup. They need to make it more like the 
 previos games with just maybe a little more spice to it. I havent played the FIFA 06 for the xbox 
 yet but I am sure that it is probably 10 times better than this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joshualbh105
Rating: 2.5
Date: Nov 25, 2005 9:33 pm PT
Review:  Let me start by saying I am not a fifa fan boy. I generally prefer Winning Eleven or PES. I thought 
 that since EA has a football game on 360, lets try it and see if EA could take advantage of the 
 graphics or new abilities of the xbox 360. I picked out two games, FIFA and Tiger Woods! Both of 
 which I already have on xbox and pc. Let me tell you something, i am selling my FIFA for just only 
 20 us dollars if you are interested to buy! Only played it once! Never going to play it again! 
 But the Tiger Woods one is not on sale. iam keeping that one. Overall, the gameplay sucks! You 
 can't even play in the world cup! Only qualify for it! Whats the use of playing the game if I can't 
 play in the actual world cup itself? No season mode, unlike Tiger Woods, Winning Eleven or Fifa 
 06 on xbox! Can't buy players! No Champions League (Ecc) ! So those of you planning to pick up this 
 game, don't bother. Just pick up Winning Eleven 9 coming out soon or Fifa 06 on xbox or ps if you 
 really want to play fifa but not the 360 version. I must say that the graphics and sound are not 
 bad though! Overall, I think i will prefer to stick to Tiger Woods and Winning Eleven. Hope this 
 review helps you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Taikamya
Rating: 3.8
Date: Nov 23, 2005 2:40 pm PT
Review:  FIFA is not like WE (PES in europe) FIFA 'll be ever under WE... i think X360~ 'll be a good way 
 yo evolve the game, but not now! its a disaster of game, graphics are impressive NOW, Revolution 
 and Play3 aren't lauched yet, but Revolution has a funny style to play, a great innovation, and 
 Play3 the best hardware, so lets see, whats going to be the REAL, FIFA 06, on other consoles , 
 maybe im wrong, but i dont think so, as we all know, play2 is the king and xbox the queen... but... 
 this 360 has no innovation, is only "a little more" to a console, and that not satisfys me... ;~~ 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CoolMichael22
Rating: 8.4
Date: Nov 23, 2005 8:36 am PT
Review:  Personally I found this game very good indeed. Just on problem, you cant enter the world cup, only 
 qualify to it!
  The graphics are smooth, and the gameplay is very enjoyable. Some of the crowd in the very-detailed 
 stadiums look like they have been hit by barge poles lol. The game itsefl is revolved around entering 
 into the world cup, once this has been completed it may get a bit repetitive, so I think that this 
 game is more for an xbox liv experience. The online is great apart from the out dated online lobby, 
 which needs a revamp. There is very little lag and there are no problems with the people you play 
 against. Overall, A great Game for some, if not sure then rent it out first! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alexchilly72
Rating: 4.4
Date: Nov 22, 2005 10:28 pm PT
Review:  NO club players No season mode with proper clubs which should have been added. No new gameplay, actually 
 worse than the ps2 and XBOX version. Graphics of the players arent incredible. Just because EA can 
 make the players mouths move on a close up it doesnt mean its an impressive game. Stadiums and crowd 
 noise is pretty good. Thats about it rele. How can this game be described as next-gen when it plays 
 worse than the last one with fewer game modes, fewer players, fewer stadiums and just generally pretty 
 crap! Another rushed game made slightly smoother with graphic. A real poor game i suggest to wait 
 for Pro Evolution in Autumn or Winning Eleven as the Americans call it. Or even better just dont 
 get a 360 at all and wait for the awesome PS3 which is gona be brilliant. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Thoomed
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 22, 2005 3:41 pm PT
Review:  The graphics look awesome, they really worked this one!!!, you'd know if you played the Fifa series, 
 and i really have, most of them sucked when it comes to scoring but now they made it look as real 
 as possible, it still makes me wonder how it looks on PS2 though.
  The graphics look awesome, they really worked this one!!!, you'd know if you played the Fifa series
 
  The graphics look awesome, they really worked this one!!!, you'd know if you played the Fifa series, 
 and i really have, most of them sucked when it comes to scoring but now they made it look as real 
 as possible, it still makes me wonder how it looks on PS2 though.
  The graphics look awesome, they really worked this one!!!, you'd know if you played the Fifa series, 
 and i really have, most of them sucked when it comes to scoring but now they made it look as real 
 as possible, it still makes me wonder how it looks on PS2 though.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: yamabushi98
Rating: 5.3
Date: Nov 22, 2005 2:47 pm PT
Review:  lets look at FIFA 06. 
  Did you look at it ? Ok. Now go play your clearly better Current Gen  
 choice. 
  428 teams, fan shop, on-line tournament or league, FIFA lounge, next-gen graphics, 
  ALL OF THESE 
 CANT BE YOURS. And if you act now EA will generously add $10 to the price of your game.
  But it does look better, barely, Thats worth $60, isnt it ? and I personally base all my game 
 purchases on graphics alone, gameplay? why would I want gameplay when I can look at pretty pictures.
 
  ps: feel free to cut and paste this review to all other EA sports games, just add there missing 
 features.
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
