-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: FIFA Soccer 08
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/xbox360/sports/fifasoccer08/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Noticeably slower playing style.
 Challenging opponent AI.
 Mountain of game modes.
 Deep online and offline play.
 Peerless presentation and authenticity.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Steep learning curve.
 Trick system a little too powerful.
 Slightly confusing menu system.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Oct  3, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.5
Critic Score: 8.3, 48 Review (s)
User Score: 8.3, 2,149 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: EA Sports
Developer: EA Canada
Genre: Soccer Sim
Date: Oct 9, 2007
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
EA Sports continues to experiment with its FIFA football series, creating a more challenging and 
 slower-paced game for the 2008 outing. 

  UK REVIEW -- Last year's FIFA was supposedly built from the ground up for the Xbox 360, though the 
 game still had yet to surpass the standards set by the franchise's entries on the previous generation 
 of consoles. For FIFA 08, EA Sports promised to refine last year's effort while delivering a host 
 of new gameplay modes and features. The result is that this year's FIFA plays a substantially different 
 game of football, thanks mostly to an increased difficulty level and a sense of decreased pace. 
 The raft of new skill moves means the game rewards practice and perseverance, but it could be argued 
 that this makes it the least accessible FIFA to date. Thankfully, though, FIFA 08 wraps its new 
 simulation feel in a superbly presented and very well-rounded package.  

           The skill system means that controlling star players such as Rooney is a real joy.    
   

  EA Sports has made a lot of claims about FIFA's new game modes and features, and they've been flagged 
 up in the game's menu system so series regulars know where to start. At the top of the list is 
 the new Be-a-Pro mode, which puts you in the studded boots of a single footballer rather than an 
 entire team. The default side-on aerial camera perspective shifts to an over-the-shoulder view, 
 and you're awarded or deducted points based on how well you serve the team. This means keeping 
 the player in position, passing the ball around, and -- depending on your position -- making tackles 
 or scoring goals. While controlling one player in a team of 11 might seem strange, it's an interesting, 
 compelling new take on gameplay. Although it's tempting to run up the field and shoot at goal regardless 
 of your position, the only way to succeed in this mode is to play your part in the team. There 
 can be long periods where you see little of the ball, particularly if you're a defender in a good 
 team or an attacker in a poor one, but on the whole it's a successful experiment on the part of 
 EA Sports.  

  The over-the-shoulder perspective of this mode shows off another of the big new features in FIFA 
 08, the trick system. By pulling on the left trigger and using the analog sticks, you can perform 
 a variety of moves that, with enough practice, have the power to cut swathes through the opposition. 
 Simple step-overs and flicks can be executed by flicking the right stick in one direction, while 
 more complicated moves can be orchestrated with a series of movements. A turn can be pulled off 
 by rotating the stick in a circular motion, while an overhead flick is a complicated three-move 
 combo that's more dependent on timing. Faster and more skilful players can pull this move off better 
 than slower ones, and top-class players such as Ronaldinho can even launch an accurate volley shot 
 off the flick.  

  In addition to the Be-a-Pro mode, FIFA has a variety of other ways to play a game of football. 
 The kick-off mode is the place for a quick practice match with up to three friends gathered round 
 your TV, though there are online equivalents with both ranked and unranked matches. The long-term 
 challenge of FIFA 08 comes from the numerous tournaments that have been packed into the game's 
 offline and online modes. Pretty much every major competition from the major domestic leagues has 
 been included, plus you can create a custom tournament to make things such as continental or world 
 cups that may happen in future. Predictably, EA's seperate World Cup franchise means that this 
 tournament isn't included in the game, but there's nothing stopping you from setting one up yourself. 

  Online, the interactive leagues let you take control of your favourite team and play real-life 
 fixtures as they happen, or you can jump into custom leagues that have been set up for up to 31 
 other players. The final mode is the manager mode. Even though EA Sports has a separate FIFA Manager 
 game, it continues to shoehorn an even simpler management sim into the main FIFA title as well. 
 The main difference in this mode is that you'll be coaching players and ensuring they're given 
 enough time on the pitch for professional development, but it doesn't really add anything to the 
 experience.  

           The new player AI makes defenders like John Terry tough to beat.      

  While the 
 sheer number of game modes is an important consideration in terms of value for money, they're only 
 worth something if the game itself is compelling to play. Thankfully, this year's FIFA plays better 
 than any that have gone before, and given that it's changed substantially over last year's game 
 this is no mean feat. Whereas previous FIFA games were some of the most accessible football games 
 on the market, this version will surprise anyone who expects to pick up the controller and win 
 games from the start. On the default difficulty level, the new opponent artificial intelligence 
 makes scoring goals difficult, let alone winning games. Apparently the result of a revised AI system 
 that controls players individually, the new level of opponent difficulty is a potentially risky 
 turn-off for fans of the series expecting arcade simplicity. While we think the difficulty is actually 
 too high, it encourages players to up their game and experiment with the advanced moves.  

  The difficulty level also affects the pace of the game, making for a much slower and considered 
 game than last year's version. While defenders are more efficient at relieving you of possession, 
 players are generally more adept at trapping the ball -- if you're not moving, you're not really 
 under threat. This means that you're heavily encouraged to shield the ball and maintain possession, 
 and the old tactic of just knocking the ball up the pitch is now next to useless. As a result you 
 can't help but play the game in a more realistic way, with a focus on maintaining possession in 
 the midfield, looking for through-ball opportunities, and using the trick system to lose players. 
 The most immediate indication of this new direction comes from the scorelines, which nearly always 
 reflect real-world scenarios and therefore rarely get above a total of two or three goals.  

  While FIFA 08 undoubtedly plays better than ever before, there are still a few quirks in the 
 gameplay. The game effortlessly combines lifelike movement with ease of control, but players still 
 lack the responsiveness of those in the rival Pro Evolution Soccer (Winning Eleven in some territories) 
 series. While EA Sports' players have the edge when it comes to flashy moves, the majority of the 
 game still relies on basic movement and passing, and FIFA feels light and somewhat vague, while 
 PES titles have always felt more precise and accurate. To its credit, though, EA's willingness 
 to experiment is beginning to put Konami's stale refinements to shame, and FIFA is definitely a 
 viable alternative for serious sim fans who are looking for an alternative to the Pro Evolution 
 Soccer series.  

  It should be no surprise for EA Sports stalwarts to learn that the overall presentation of FIFA 
 08 is so good that it's actually one of the game's biggest selling points. The game seeps authenticity 
 from every pore, with up-to-date stats on some 14,000 players, official kit and sponsorship details, 
 and English commentary provided by Martin Tyler and Andy Gray. The amount of repetition in the 
 commentary could get annoying if you play with only one team, the natural banter and interplay 
 between these two results in some of the best and most context-relevant commentary in any football 
 game. The soundtrack itself deserves praise, too -- with the usual mix of recognisable anthems and 
 upcoming indie/dance numbers, there's not a filler in the entire selection. The overall quality 
 of music means that a visit to the menu screen is something to look forward to. There are some 
 inconsistencies in presentation, though -- a referee is introduced in the prematch presentation, 
 but he mysteriously disappears in the game itself. Why we can have AI players that make thousands 
 of decisions a second but no animated referees or assistants is a mystery.  

  Graphically, FIFA 08 is the best-looking football game on the market by a considerable margin. 
 Not only are players immediately recognisable thanks to the way that they move as well as the way 
 they look from afar, but close up they also feature individual facial details, personalised items 
 of kit, and haircuts. The 30 licensed stadiums boast both scale and detail, with video boards up 
 high displaying feeds from the camera cranes that sit above the goals. There are also some really 
 nice smaller touches, such as the shirt deformation technology and dramatic, low-angle camera shots 
 that would be impossible to achieve with even the best hi-def cameras. However, that's not to say 
 there aren't a few graphical problems. While players boast natural appearances and extremely lifelike 
 movement, it's spoiled by a plastic look that makes their expressions appear forced. We're sure 
 that the intention was to make them look like they're sweating, but the reality is that they look 
 like they've been shrink-wrapped.  

           Although they have a plastic look up close, player likenesses and playing styles are almost 
 scarily well done in FIFA 08.      

  The online component of FIFA 08 has been designed to provide football fans with everything they 
 need for an authentic experience. All of your online activity feeds into a central database, which 
 offers more detailed information than the standard Xbox Live achievements system (although that 
 is still present) . You can also keep track of your favourite team's real-world activity thanks 
 to the ESPN Soccernet integration, with live updates from the major clubs from around the world 
 along with ticker-tape updates throughout the main menu system itself. We especially liked being 
 able to jump in and see scheduled matches for six of the world's major leagues, as well as the 
 current table standings and top scorers of the day. Having said that, we found big clubs like Manchester 
 United were much better represented than those such as Blackburn, and even then we had difficulty 
 accessing the listed news feeds in full. The online play holds up well from a technical standpoint, 
 with only the odd bit of barely-noticeable lag to speak of. It also has some thoughtful features, 
 such as only letting the player with the ball pause the game, and limiting the frequency and length 
 of time players can spend in the menus.  

  EA Sports has taken substantial risks with this year's FIFA, but the resulting game can certainly 
 be considered a successful experiment. It plays a more difficult and more refined game of football 
 than its predecessors, and while it should be emphasised that the game is perhaps too difficult 
 at times, it will reward players who put in the practice. The sheer number of game modes make FIFA 
 the most complete football game on the market, while the authenticity and quality of presentation 
 continue to enhance the package overall. It may fall just short of greatness, but it's a FIFA that's 
 well worth trying out for anyone who's been avoiding the series.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (147 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: SkidRow18
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 10, 2009 4:56 am PT
Review:  Fifa 08 has 30 leagues and more than 15,000 players. Most of them are licensed teams expect for 
 some like the Netherlands national team. 
  
  First of all, the graphics and sounds for this game is great, the player model are very nice even 
 though it look a little bit like plastic but the camera are a little too high above the field most 
 of the time so it doesn't really matters. It also show details like sweat on the player hands and 
 face, hair and shirt moving while the player is moving. One thing that disappoint me is the crowd, 
 they are pretty boring, example like when you score a goal there is the crowd cheering sound but 
 the crowd basically just sit there and clap their hands instead of jumping and going crazy like 
 the one in the good old Winning Eleven 8. In old football games there are team flags, camera flash 
 from the crowd stand and even fireworks but there are not even a sign of these things during the 
 final or big match in fifa 08. Maybe, those things doesn't matters to your but to me, it really 
 give me the hype during a match as it feel more alive. The commentary is another thing that doesn't 
 feel well polish at all, it is good but not great. At first it feels good but after you play long 
 enough, you probably have heard the same line a few times over and over again. When you are about 
 to score a goal the announcer doesn't raise it's voice or something, beside there are only two 
 commentary in this game, Martin Tyler and Andy Gray.
  
  There are Manager mode, Fifa 08 lounge, Challenger mode and the all new Tournament mode and Be 
 a Pro. In Manager mode, you can sign for a club, upgrade staff, sign a sponsor and trade players. 
 You can also create a tournament in fifa 08. In Be a Pro, you can choose a player or turn a created 
 player to a legend. You will only have control on the player you choose, you can call for ball 
 and you also need to be in position in order to increase your player rating. 
  
  The gameplay in fifa 08 is much more realistic and has a slower paced type of gameplay. The ball 
 physics is much more realistic and because the gameplay is slower, you can't really go solo. Passing 
 comes into play and fifa 08 require a more tactical play. The complain for me is that the release 
 of the ball is abit slower even though it is more realistic, the skill move is also quite difficult 
 to master, learning curve is harder but you don't need skill to win a game. It is actually quite 
 fun to learn the skill moves. Further more, the AI are kinda annoying, they just basically run 
 beside ur player and steal the ball from you with ease. For us, stealing a ball from the AI isn't 
 easy even on amateur, so this game might not be for newcomers. 
  
  The online mode is very addictive, it is very fun to play with others by either thrashing them 
 or getting owned. There are interactive leagues, online leagues or you can have a custom or quick 
 ranked match. There are also some little things like a fan shop which you can buy stuff like 3rd 
 kits, different kinds of soccer balls, boots and exp points by using the points you have earn from 
 the accomplishments.
  
  Design: 8.5
  Sound: 7.8
  Graphics: 8.0
  Gameplay: 7.8
  Achievements: 7.5
  Overall: 7.9 (Very Good)
  
  Overall, playing this game is sure fun as 
 many things can happen in a match. There are just lots of things to do alone with fifa 08, so if 
 you are a football fan, it is must for you guys to get Fifa 08. O Ya, soundtracks for this game 
 is awesome! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BluntObject
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 7, 2008 6:44 am PT
Review:  I have been a FIFA fan for many years. My first FIFA game was FIFA 2000 for the PC. FIFA 06 for 
 the Xbox, which I still play, is also a great football game. 
  
  As for FIFA 08 I am still learning how to play. This game makes me go completely mental, which 
 admittedly is not an unreachable event. 
  
  Anyhoo. FIFA 08 has a very steep learning curve compared to past games. You are going to have 
 to accept losing while learning. I started in Manager Mode with Manchester United  a great club 
 with some fantastic talent. Even then the game hands me my ars on a platter.
  
  In FIFA 06 I got to the point where I could almost score on cue. Not in FIFA 08. This is what makes 
 the game so realistic. Low scoring and very tough matches. You really have to work at touches to 
 create scoring chances. 
  
  As for the skills I have not mastered those. I have, however, mastered the art of attempting a 
 skill move and losing the ball. I am very good at that. 
  
  This is a great game as winter approaches given the depth of the learning curve and the need to 
 relearn the skills. Even though this thing is driving me freakin' nuts I still think it's a great 
 buy for your library. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: meangamer100
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 18, 2008 10:27 am PT
Review:  EA sport's titles are known for their extensive license agreements with players and leagues. Nowhere 
 is this better demonstrated than in their FIFA titles, and this year is no exception. Gameplay and 
 player control are very important when talking about soccer simulators. the game controls well 
 but it is not great. Getting a through ball to your teammates is very addictive. but there is a 
 lay off function which allows you to improve the path of your ball by guiding by guiding the pass 
 with the analog stick. performing feints at the right time with someone else than Cristiano Ronaldo 
 or Ronaldinho is another sore spot. Dribbling is'nt great during standard gameplay. With Ronaldinho 
 you'll be able to perform insane moves with a flick of the analog stick. It is to control the pace 
 and direction of a shot. Free kicks are easier to control. The ability to add top, side or backspin 
 makes for a lot of fun. FIFA fanatics will have no problem picking up the game and winning in world 
 class difficulty. the legendary level is another story altogether. You'll think the computer cheats! 
 so is the game. you might even throw the controller a few times if you let it get you. several 
 levels of difficulty is agood thing thoug, it allows begginers and experts to enjoy alike. The 
 graphics are of high quality. The stadiums look great as do the movements. Player likenesses are 
 accurate but not as extensive as licenses. The world's best players likenesses's are well captured, 
 but there is paucity between second and third tier proffesionals. The crowds are realistic and 
 unique. Sound and commentary are very good. A lot of effort went into song selection also. overall, 
 the settings are what set this title apart from the previous versions and the competitions. A must 
 buy for soccer fanatics. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: R_MAHIL
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 1, 2008 8:37 am PT
Review:  For years now, football fans up and down the country have argued which game is truly king? FIFA 
 or PES? It's always been close..... until now.
  
  As soon as the game loads up you can tell how good it is. You could just spend hours polishing 
 your skills in the arena. PES has a training mode but it's nothing compared to the arena. And with 
 it you have always got something to do. When your game is loading up it takes you straight to the 
 arena where you can have a few shots with your chosen star before the match kicks off. 
  
  On to the menus and it's all quite simple to navigate round. Kick Off, Manager Mode, Tournaments, 
 XBox Live, you can already see how much there is to do. You can even create players (although you 
 can't create clubs like last-gen FIFA 07) .
  
  When you play a match Martin Tyler and Andy Gray are your commentators and it looks and sounds 
 so real you could easily confuse it for Sky Sports. If you walked into a room and saw FIFA you 
 would think it's a live match, it's just so realistic. You can play as your favourite team in their 
 real kit which has always been FIFA's main advantage over PES and it still is. Although the realism 
 doesn't replace the fun.....
  
  FIFA 08 is enjoyable and is on a whole new level from PES. The controls are brilliant and the gameplay 
 is absolutely perfect. Not only is this game capable of giving hours of single-player joy but the 
 offline and online multiplayer is superb.
  
  It's great playing with up to four mates on your console and then online it's just sensational. 
 Game modes such as Interactive Leagues and Be-A-Pro give the game even more life than expected 
 and these are top quality. Be-A-Pro puts you in the boots of one player instead of controlling 
 the whole team and it works very well.
  Five user controlled and five computer controlled gives the game a bit more variety.
  
  There 
 are a few improvements that i think will be made for next season. Most notably when you are in 
 a match there are no visible match officials apart from in the yellow and red card cut-scenes. 
 The Be-A-Pro should have an offline career mode and maybe 10 vs 10 online instead of 5. Also it 
 would be nice if the game didn't stop as much (for example you should have the ability to take 
 a quick throw or free kick) among other improvements. Although these issues shouldn't take too 
 much away from the experience - it's still a class game. Obviously, as always with FIFA there will 
 be more teams, more stadiums etc. added once again and possible the managers (as seen in EURO 2008) . 
 
  
  I could go on for hours about this game because it really is that good - any football fan's dream 
 game. EA took risks with the game but they more than payed off with this spectacular effort from 
 the Vancouver studio. There are plenty of things i haven't touched upon in this review that make 
 this game all the more special but one section of the back cover says it all for me: 
  '30 Leagues, 23 Real Stadiums and 15000 Players. Go online and organize tournaments and represent 
 your club in the award-winning interactive leagues.'
  PES 2008 has 4 licensed leagues a host of international teams with fake players & kits and a terrible 
 online experience. EA are well and truly top of the league this season.
  
  Summary:
  
  Graphics 9.9
  Gameplay 9.9
  Audio & Soundtrack 9.8
  Achievements 7.2
  Life 10
  Value 
 For Money 9.9
  Innovation & New Ideas 8.7
  Online 9.6
  Balance (Between Fun & Realism) 10
  Game Modes & Multiplayer 10
  
  OVERALL: 95 quite nearly 
 the perfect football game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jwestie94
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 21, 2008 6:41 am PT
Review:  fifa 08 is a great game for all. fans of football or not. fifa 08 has a great single player mode 
 like:
  
  15 year manager mode
  create torunments
  toruments with over 50 real toruments
  be a pro: offline training
  challenge mode with over 
 120 challenges
  
  also create player
  
  online mode is very good because you can play be a pro with 10 other gametags in the room. very 
 fun and different in a very good way.
  playing players online is very good with the communications.
  
  online is a must with this 
 game.
  
  the cons:
  skills are quite hard to do.
  manager mode, the computer teams do not do allot of transfers.
  the games are quite long with 
 a 8 minute games witch are 4 minutes long.
  achievements is hard to get because all the online members are very hard to beat.
  fifa 08 brings 
 hours of fun to any one. highly recommended. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NBAmaster33
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 16, 2008 9:33 am PT
Review:  The FIFA series has always been the source for getting a great soccer game. FIFA 08 continues that, 
 with its great gameplay, visuals and options. One thing that will stand out are the visuals. Everything 
 from player faces, expressions, animations and models look great and are highly detailed. The audio 
 is also pretty good. You'll hear the players' feet running across the grass or kicking the soccer 
 ball. The gameplay is really quite basic. The controls work well, and the game speed as been tuned 
 down a bit so you won't be scoring as often as you did in previous games. You'll be able to play 
 with other friends as well, adding to the enjoyment. The menus may be a bit confusing to navigate, 
 but there are tons of different game modes, like online or by yourself. The game isn't disappointing 
 for anyone who liked the previous games, and it is a must have for fans of previous FIFA games 
 or soccer fans.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: madmonkey7
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 15, 2008 6:12 pm PT
Review:  This game could not be much better. Great graphics, gameplay, and a good selection of modes to 
 choose from. Be a pro mode is perfect, it shows u ur wrongs and rights and shows u who to guard 
 while playing. Then it sums up your performance in the end. Manager mode was a success as well. 
 The only improvements I can think of is to add a career be a pro mode to get the experience of 
 being drafted to different teams depending on ur skill.. if ur a good player u could be transfered 
 to successful clubs such as manchester utd and barcelona, if ur bad u may not be tranfered. And 
 they should perfect the gameplay just a bit more. It needs to be a little more harsh on the amount 
 of red cards and yellow cards the ref gives to players. It should also make it so the more skilled 
 players like Cristiano Ronaldo, and Messi are much better at dribbling, passing, and shooting then 
 players who no one knows. Overall its an amazing game, almost perfect and its worth the $50 to 
 $60. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: faster316
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 14, 2008 3:19 pm PT
Review:  First The Graphics of the game surprise me , i think the game modes can be better's that the actuality 
 , DT mode is short they can put 5 years more to the DT Mode
  The Menu is very fun but the problem is you can't practice with 2 players on the same time and 
 they need improved , maybe they can make the second player be the goalkeeper or another player 
 in the court if they do this the game will be more more Complete, the XBOX Live mode is fine a 
 little slow but is ok, for the 09 make it more faster , generally the game have 1 or 2 things that 
 you can say WHAT?, and the idea that they have for the future of that series the FIFA 09 will be 
 The Best Game Of the FIFA series,
  
  And for last i tell this game is very good for the people who like the sports game and is really 
 Fun
  
  
  
  
  i say GAME OVER. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: expoet
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 31, 2008 1:31 pm PT
Review:  Soccer... to most Americans it is a sissy sport and a sport played only by toddlers. But to us Americans 
 who enjoy the game and to everyone else in the world, this is the greatest sport in the world. 
 EA has had its problems in the past when it came to soccer games. But, FIFA 08 was a step in the 
 right direction.
  
  The gameplay is really solid. It can be a bit difficult at times, especially for casual players 
 and first time players to the FIFA series. The shots require precision timing and a good eye. As 
 long as you can get these correct, you can really enjoy the game. I liked the idea of tricks added 
 into the game, which you couldnt do in previous games. 
  
  The graphics are great. I like that the uniforms bend and wrinkle as the player moves. The pitch 
 looks nice, the fans are nicely made, and the ball looks like the real life ones. It was just a 
 well made game.
  
  Some of the things I liked in the game was the Be a Pro mode, where you take control of one player 
 for a game. It was a cool experience and I really enjoyed it.
  
  Some of the things I didnt like were kind of things that shoudent be seen in a soccer game. First 
 off, the player movement seems real yes, but players dont turn on a and run in the opposite direction 
 when a ball comes their way. This is just me, it happens all the time. Another tihng I didnt like 
 was the ref's calls. Many were stupid calls that would get a real ref fired. Lastly, their were 
 a couple glitches, like a ball going through feet or worse, through the goalies hand. 
  
  All in all, FIFA 08 is an awsome game. I play it all the time. Its fun to play, and offers fun, 
 memorable matches all the time. FIFA 08 is definatly a buy. It is just those glitches, and player 
 movement problems that does not make this game a 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thadudeabides83
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 29, 2008 1:08 pm PT
Review:  This game has all you want in a soccer game. A plethora of teams to play, a deep season mode, an 
 excellent (albeit underachieving) "be a pro" mode, sharp graphics, and high replay make this a 
 strong soccer title. The commentating gets repetitive, but what sports game doesn't? Also, if you 
 are a fan of lower clubs, the team name and players may be left absent of the commentators' mouths 
 altogether. Some of the buttons that are executed are sadly delayed (which it needs to be in MOST 
 situations) which can screw up a play, but the game is addictive nevertheless.
  
  The create a player is excellent because there is an abundance of attributes that you can increase 
 throughout the season. In fact, the player growth is fun all in itself in that you can personally 
 mold each player on your squad. 
  
  There may be other titles that you want to play, but it isn't EURO or World Cup, because that can 
 be duplicated in custom tournament mode on this game. It may be Pro Evolution, but not this year's 
 version. All in all, this is the strongest soccer title of the year. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dmiisha_796
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 13, 2008 7:50 pm PT
Review:  FIFA 08 is a preety nice game for a soccer fan. It has many pros and cons. Lets start with the 
 cons.
  
  CONS:
  1) This game almost does nothing differently. All the same players in all the same teams (mostly) . 
 And some teams aren't even updated. I mean with their new jersies, new players even the new numbers 
 of the players!
  2) The 360 version of this game is really confusing (controller layout wise) . I've palyed the 360, 
 PS2 and 3 versions of this game. I found that the PS2 and 3 version has a similar default button 
 layout to the 360 version (positions of the all the buttons i mean) . But somehow they (people at 
 EA) managed to screw up the trick-stick on the 360 version. Its really confusing to me. Sometimes 
 even causes a bad migrain to try and remember the button layout for the trick-stick (its so much 
 easier on the PS version, you would think that EA designed this game to run on those PS platforms 
 and just added the 360 version for marketing purposes) .
  3) Graphics, sadly to say, haven't been upgraded much (on the PS3 and 360 version) . I don't know 
 if it is just my copy, but everytime that Didier Drogba (Chelsea palyer) scored a goal, ad the 
 camera zoomed in on his celebration, his mouth would twitch. And not slightly! A lot! And frequent 
 too! Some teams jersies do also look like as if the colour is running. And the sponsers emblems 
 also tend to run on the jersy (as if some one painted it on before game day, and washed it accidently 
 while the paint was still wet)
  
  PROS:
  1) I know those were a lot of cons. But this game does do somethings right. For instance the newgame 
 modes are awesome. That mode were you only control one player throughout the whole match. Its hard 
 to master at first, especially if you've palyed soccer simulation games before, but after a while 
 its really nice.
  2) The AI is a lot better. They really start to compete. Especially in cup finals, or semis. Even 
 when bitter rivals take on each other the AI seems to step up their game. Much more 'humanlike'. 
 Unlike in the '07 version, you could score 30 over goals agsinst the AI in the first-half (on ametuer, 
 less depending on which level of difficulty) .
  
  ROUND UP:
  This game has been played before. There are not much differences between this game ant the '07 
 version. So, if you had the previous game and are short for money, you don't have to have this 
 game now. But if you're a real soccer fan and can't wait to see the new tams and leagues, well 
 get this game at your closest retailer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jo2k14
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 13, 2008 2:23 pm PT
Review:  fifa football hav always dun a gd job of creatin a gd football game up to fifa 07 on the xbox and 
 ps2 versions but then u had the nxt generayion fifas such as fifa 06 rtwc, fifa 07 and now fifa 
 08. Fifa 08 is soooo much better than fifa 07 in many ways but wen u put it up agenst fifa 06 and 
 07 on the old gens it is very much the same in some ways but poorer in others. Fifa 08 is gd for 
 online as u can do interactive leagues and set up ranked matches to boost ur XP. also the career 
 mode is vri in detail but wen u are 6-7 seasons within it u get vri bored and it feels same ol' 
 same ol' unless u are unloyal and do not stick wit one for 2 seasns or mor. the new be a pro mode 
 is gd and i feel like it was one of the reasons for me to be buyin it, at the time i thought it 
 was a new story mode where u take a created player thru the rankins of football (like euro 2008) 
 but then to find out it is a friendly match where u use one player of any choice except from GK's 
 is sumwat a rip off. the graphics are amazin within the top players and stadiums but within the 
 lower leagues u get the players all lookin the same and computer generated. also in the lower leagues 
 the football is extremely slow but in real life it is the same as any otha type of football slick 
 and fast u get many decent young players in fifa in the top leagues but wen u get the same type 
 of player in the lower leagues the are slower and undarated.
  i hope in fifa 09 they increase the speed of the lower leagues underate sum crappy players they 
 have made brill on fifa 08 e. g Paul Robinson. and rate players higher such as Freddy Eastwood. 
 so bring on fifa 09 o n i dnt beleve they hav made 250 improvments but then agen there are many 
 things rong in fifa 08 such as the thru balls but they hav bin corected in euro 2008 so thats 1 
 but wats the otha 249 gona be (laces look shinier) lol wel i cnt wait to see it. thatnks 4 readin 
 dis review n hope u take note of wat ive sed EA developers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: theevans
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 23, 2008 5:35 am PT
Review:  Fifa 08
  
  Its been a few years since my last game on the virtual pitch. Passing on Fifa 07 and Fifa 06 was 
 easy. The games had become too difficult and unenjoyable over the years. EA Sports ended up tweaking 
 the game play with every new release - changing the controls, speed and ability of the players 
 quite dramatically. Then there were those intern releases - World Cup, Champions League, Euro Cup, 
 etc. that simply put soccer games into overkill mode. Too much of anything is not good. So upon 
 recommendation, solid ratings, curiosity and a nice price, I decided to give Fifa 08 a try.
  
  Graphics: 8.5/10
  This is by far the best looking futball game out there. EA has done an 
 admirable job on the over 14,000 individual players and dozens of authentic stadiums. The player 
 models are great, and their animations have never looked better. The resulting atmosphere is epic. 
 Close-ups show improved player facial expressions that reflect their "emotion" during events of 
 the game. Jerseys flow and flutter with movement. This is a great looking sports game.
  
  Sound: 9/10
  EA is doing a wonderful job with sound these days. Fifa 08 is another top notch 
 example of how great music, sound effects and crowd emotion can really make you feel like you're 
 in a stadium playing a real game. Ill go so far as to say that the commentary of Martin Tyler and 
 Andy Gray is one of the best teams ever. If you close your eyes you'd swear you were listening 
 to a live broadcast. A few of the phrases become redundant over time, but for the most part the 
 color commentary is entertaining and specific. There were a few instances where their comments 
 didn't match what was going on. Overall the sound is one of this game's strengths.
  
  Game play: 9/10
  There is a noticeably slower pace to this year's game. Gone are the days of 
 quick sprints down the pitch past the defenders to shoot on goal. Fifa 08 feels ultra-realistic 
 and very difficult to master. There is a steep learning curve to get even the basics down this 
 time around. The resulting game play is both the best representation of soccer and the least accessible 
 for players new to the game. There are a ton of controls. Many of them using a complex combination 
 of buttons which takes time to become second nature. Passing and possession are the keys to victory 
 - just like the real game. There is plenty of variety in strategy, skill moves, and team dynamics 
 to keep things interesting. The ball physics are absolutely incredible. I cant say enough how authentic 
 the dribbling, tackling and sprinting feel. There is an inverse relationship between speed and 
 ball control, and finding that balance will take a few games to understand. The online play is 
 fantastic. Between the online leagues, crisp smooth game play and unlockable features (kits etc) 
 Fifa 08 is a wonderful multiplayer experience. There were a few times during the game when players 
 didn't respond as expected. 
  
  Presentation: 8/10
  It all comes together quite well in Fifa 08. The pregame buildup - while not overly detailed - 
 does a nice job to introduce players to the ensuing match. The menu system is a little complicated 
 to navigate due to unique naming conventions. It would have been nice to have a full training mode 
 to learn and practice those somewhat complex skill trick moves. The cameras are very nice this 
 year, allowing the action to be viewed from a number of useful and sexy angles. EA could still 
 do a bit more with its presentation to bring it up to broadcast quality, but they're inching a 
 little closer each year.
  
  Summary: 
  This is easily the best looking, playing and sounding soccer game ever. There is room for improvement 
 in all categories, but Fifa 08 does a solid job with all of its attributes. The overwhelming difficultly 
 may be the biggest blemish on its report card, but the reflection on its real world counterpart 
 is uncanny. Scoring goals feels like an exciting achievement. I would recommend this game to fans 
 of the sport and suggest that casually curious sports game-players give it a peek as well. Solid 
 multiplayer gives it some legs. Final Rating - 8.6/10.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ItalyCanadian9
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 22, 2008 2:00 pm PT
Review:  The one thing that no soccer fan has to worry about in FIFA Soccer 08, and has never had to worry 
 about in an EA soccer game, is licensing. This title simply has more sports licensing than anything 
 that has come before it, as it seems to have players and teams than there are people in Redwood 
 City. While a pro hockey or college football game may have a few hundred teams and a few thousand 
 players, FIFA Soccer 08 comes equipped with 576 licensed teams within thirty sanctioned leagues 
 and a total of fifteen thousand players (we feel sorry for the EA interns assigned to FIFA Soccer 
 08's data entry) . Pretty much, if it is soccer related and it's on this planet, it's in FIFA Soccer 
 08. That's authenticity taken to its apogee. Better-than-average facial and body maps (players 
 still look greasy though) , stellar animation sets and realistic pitches help to make FIFA Soccer 
 08 feel more authentic too. Bottom line: If we had separate scoring for "Licensing and Authenticity" 
 we'd give FIFA Soccer 08 a ten, and probably petition to have the maximum score changed to eleven. 
 Having some obscure player or team in a professional sports game is only the be-all-end for sim 
 junkies and those that simply must play with their hometown favorites. The rest of us non-club 
 managers and casual soccer fans need serious substance to go along with the experience; that is, 
 the title has to have a feature set at least around the status quo for a 2007 sports title. It 
 did take EA two Xbox 360 iterations to finally figure this out, but they seem to have caught up 
 nicely with the current trends in sports video gaming. We're talking about online leagues of course, 
 first and foremost anyways. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jammer13
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 17, 2008 8:06 am PT
Review:  After 3 years of suckish next gen soccer (football) games from EA, we finally are on the right 
 track.
  Once again, EA brings back the massive selection of teams I always loved to have. But lets go to 
 the gameplay first...
  GAMEPLAY
  Almost perfect. The AI got a total makeover and it plays a more realistic game than that of years 
 past. I'm not a big fan of the trick system, since thats not what football is about. It definitely 
 takes some getting used to, even long time players of EA's football series.
  SOUND
  The commentary is good, can be a little repetitive, but i excpect that in any sports game when 
 i've played it for a while. The crowd sounds good, but could be better.
  GRAPHICS
  Oh boy, this is where FIFA really shines. No football game stands close to this one in graphics. 
 I love it.
  OVERALL
  Get it. It's good and if you've been on pro evolution (like me for the past several years) and 
 have been waiting for EA to get it right, now is the time to get it. It is quite difficult, even 
 on the easiest level. This was reviewed by a hardcore American soccer (football) fan. I hope Portugal 
 wins the UEFA cup. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: coolguy735
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 7, 2008 3:03 am PT
Review:  This game really is great fun. The graphics could be a little better but when your in the middle 
 of an exciting football ( soccer ) match you couldn't care less and the graphics are still very 
 good. The main thing they have updated from the last game is Be a Pro mode. This allows you to 
 take one player from a team and control him and noone else throughout the match. This is great 
 fun especially online where everyone controls a player. Also you may spend more time on the loading 
 screen than anywhere else. This is because when its loading you don't just have to sit around waiting 
 for ages you can control a player in an arena and to loads of tricks with him then try and score 
 the perfect goal. Fifa 2008 has over 14,000 players! The game can be quite hard to learn at first 
 but there are 5 difficulty levels from amateur to legendary which helps. A single player game is 
 great fun with so much teams to choose from. The manager mode is more in depth than last time with 
 better transfers more managerial options, perfect for a stats lover! The skills system in an actual 
 match can be a little too good as it is really hard to pull them off.
  My score - 9.6 ( can't show on slide and rate. )
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: lobby2k7
Rating: 9
Date: May 11, 2008 2:59 am PT
Review:  Fifa 08 is the best in the fifa series in my opinion. Firstly the gamplay is much improved and 
 very realistic. Fifa 07 on xbox 360 was the worst game i had ever owned. From fifa 07 to fifa 08 
 there is an astonishing difference, the graphics are also amazing. A few things i don't like is 
 you can never hit a volley clean where it will rocket into the back of the net, i just love scoring 
 goals like that, if you hit a volley it will either lob the stadium or it will just roll across 
 the surface normally into a defender. Long rang shots can be scored in style though. On fifa 07 
 there was no lower league teams on fifa 08 it has all of the teams from lower leagues. I can never 
 pull off skills in a match everytime i try to take a defender on with skills the defender just 
 knocks me clean off the ball. Still the game is brilliant and definatly worth getting. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vnetvnet
Rating: 9
Date: May 2, 2008 5:06 am PT
Review:  Everytime a new FIFA is released, it was as same as the previous one, no special new function. 
 However, EA Sport does a good job this time.
  
  First of all, the graphic improves a lots, the light, the crowd, the face are awesome. The sound 
 effect is still good.
  
  The best change this time is the gameplay. It's so realistic. Do you remember the previous FIFA 
 game? The speed of the match is ridiculous, all the players are doing like having drags before 
 the match. They can have a goal EASILY 30 feets away.
  In FIFA 08, its like a match that we watch in TV, the players can't run like a leopard, they can't 
 always have a goal 50 feets away.
  
  The bad of the game is need long time to learn all the skill, they are hard to remember, like push 
 up an do a circle, pull down and push to right etc.
  
  It's a great game if you like soccer game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: liverpool_r_gd
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 24, 2008 4:36 am PT
Review:  The Good
  A better slowed gameplay speed. New be a pro mode. Updated players. Lots and lots of teams. Great detail 
 on the players and stadiums. The manager mode is the best its ever been with lots of in depth things 
 to on it. Lots of game modes. The arena is good for practice. You can create a player. Great lounge 
 mode. All licenced teams and players. Great sound and chants. Good classic XI team with great legends 
 including 
  The Bad
  No create a team mode. The manager mode is easy for good players. Not many stadiums. Create a player 
 is good but you cant up their skills a lot. The be a pro camera is pretty s*it. Often the passing 
 dosent go to the players you want it to go to. The crossing is never acurate. The world XI team is 
 not the best it can be.
  
  Graphics 9/10
  Gameplay 9/10
  SoundTrack9/10
  Manager Mode 10/10
  
  Thank You
  Liverpool_r_gd 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ranbir_flame
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 18, 2008 9:03 pm PT
Review:  FIFA 08 is the newest installment in a long line of FIFAs. The graphics keep improving each year 
 and this year the game looks great. The character models are realistic from far away but close 
 up they look like plastic. All teams are up to date and rate the same as their real counterparts. 
 The game runs smooth and clean. The A. I is smart but sometimes can easily be beaten. The chemistry 
 of each team also plays a vital role in the overall performance of the team, so adding top notch 
 players to a squad will not work out that well in the starting. You have different modes in the 
 game like the tournament mode, manager mode, challenge mode and also the kick off (quickest way 
 to start a game) . In the end i would say the game is good and all soccer fans will love it and 
 won't be disappointed......... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: psp476
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 18, 2008 1:30 pm PT
Review:  Lets start with the graphics: The graphics are quite good, but some glitches like a foot going 
 through another players legs or in some rare cases the foot goes inside the ball. 
  
  The game play is also good, you can now do tricks unlike fifa07 xbox360. The passes are more realistic 
 but the difficulty level isn't that accurate. Also dont be surprised to see newcastle top of the 
 league and chelsea or man. utd 7th. Theres also a new feature: be a pro: offline/online training.
 
  This new feature lets you play the whole game with for example cristiano ronaldo, it helps you 
 get used to the positioning of the player. You can now also create your own league, which surprisingly 
 you couldn't do in fifa 07.
  
  I've saved the bad for last. The referees: hopeless. So many decisions go against you pointlessly.
 
  
  Overall not a bad game but could have been so much better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: YaNme
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 8, 2008 5:08 pm PT
Review:  We have to admit it. Fifa, by EA Sports, is a great football franchise. Not only because you get 
 to play with your favorite team, as well as ton of other licensed teams, just like they are supposed 
 to be in real life (real players, kits, cups etc) , but you can still get real feeling and pleasure 
 of this awesome sport.
  Fifa was always my favorite football series, and I used to buy almost every year the new Fifa, 
 in need for the improvements and updates and eager to check the new stuff.
  Fifa 08 is similar to the past Fifa's, but still gets some slight graphic improvement, and a major 
 turn on the gameplay. The ball physics are improved in this one too.
  The replay factor in this game is awesome. Tons of stuff to do on single players (manager mode, 
 tournaments and cups, challenges) , to get those achievements for the people who care about theirs 
 gamerscores. The character customization is also a very cool factor, as well as the new "Be-a-Pro 
 mode". A great idea where you can control a single player during one match, doing the specific 
 job he has to do based on his field position. And when you are bored of single player, you can 
 always go play online.
  
  Now for the annoyances...
  The gameplay, as I said before, had made a great turn, you can manual pass your shots, to let them 
 more accurate (it's hard to get the hand to it, but you can let it on the auto option for easier 
 handling) , and also pull some cool tricks with the ball. The problem is, these tricks are better 
 used when playing against a human opponent, because the computer AI almost ever intercept them. 
 And yes, the AI is still very unfair. Past the professional difficult, the AI just turns to intercepts 
 any pass you do, if you are not too fast to receive it. The tackle is awful too. The computer has 
 the amazing ability to glue the ball on their players' feet, so it's much harder for you to take 
 the ball from them than the other way around. And it's irritating how sometimes you receive a foul 
 by a fair tackle that didn't even knocked the player or messed up his movement. The computer's 
 players are super human compared to yours, because they can take the ball from you very easily 
 and recover from your tackles almost instantly (whereas your players always get "stunned" and have 
 to waste precious seconds to recover) .
  The difficult is also unbalanced, seeing as if you play, for example, with Brazil national squad, 
 against a 3rd division team from England, in the hardest difficult level, they can still play like 
 a top team. EA should really make the difficult level more balanced, taking into account the team's 
 level and abilities.
  Another minor flaw is the players' appearance. Sure, some of the famous one look like their counterparts 
 in real life, but still, they look more like dolls, not all that realistic to be honest, even though 
 their movements are very realistic. About the music track, it's ok, not good but not bad either. 
 Just right.
  
  Good: Vast single player modes which will give you keep busy for a lot of time (manage mode is 
 pretty long and there are tons of challenges to complete) , enhanced gameplay, more realistic physics, 
 good player customization and info, licensed teams, players and cups, player's movements are more 
 realistic.
  
  Bad: Unfair AI, unbalanced teams on higher difficult levels, kind same old feeling from past Fifa 
 games, players look like dolls.
  
  I must say, if you enjoy the sport you should buy it. It's definitely worth it. 
  But if you 
 get easily pissed by unfair AI, you can get frustated... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Canberk
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 6, 2008 4:01 pm PT
Review:  Originally I was very dissapointed when playing fifa 08. I felt the game was slow paced and the 
 new moves features was simply a ploy to sell more copies. The passing system seemed to be no different 
 than in previous installments. The "A button," would simply kick the ball to a team mate who would 
 sit around and wait for the ball to come to him. But in all honesty that rarely occurs in a soccer 
 match unless you are watching the Italian national team (BORING) . This all changed when I realized 
 I had the ability to change the passing system from auto to manual. This changed the quality of 
 the game significantly. The passing felt more crisp and I had much more options to kick the ball 
 to open space. NO longer did I have to pass the through ball button if I wanted my player to run 
 on to the ball. Although there was a higher learning curve, I was happy that the A. I did hinder 
 pinpoint accuracy. If playing with friends I highly advise playing with manual passing, this makes 
 the game much more fun and authentic. 
  On a presentation stand point, the game stadiums and players all look well. But as usual I was 
 dissapointed with the overall crowd animations. The crowd once again looks like the card board 
 cut outs from previous installments, but with way less articulation. The crowd not only has a hard 
 time celebrating after fantastic goals, but the only way you can tell there alive is by the audio. 
 The audio is all acceptional accept for a few weird songs, and the two commentators who drive me 
 nuts. I cant tell you how many times I have heard, "I see him more than I see my wife." Grrr for 
 fifa 09 there needs to be more commentators. 
  Few things I can't stand about fifa 08 is that the players all seem to be able to do the same moves 
 just in varrying levels of speeds depending on atributes. Players like figo, or ronaldo can't be 
 distinguished cause they all animate the same way. Give some players like some style or something 
 especially the mainstream ones EA. Needless to say your almost like a fire hydrant in a room full 
 of dogs when your defending against a free kick. Your simply at the mercy of the opposing team. 
 Not only can you not move the wall, but your players will leape even when you don't press the jump 
 button (STUPID) . 
  In conclusion FIfa 08 is a step up from 07 but I believe there is alot more things to be done for 
 next year. For one the only time you see the ref is in the intro and when hes carding people. I 
 think they need to include that into next year, cause I always like hitting it off the refree once 
 in a while. There also needs to be more dynamic weather effects. The sidelines also need to look 
 more lively such as the manager there or like the subs waiting that would be cool. There should 
 also be a pacing center. I wont get into details. 
  
  THE GOOD THE BAD THE UGLY 
  GOOD: Passing is awsome and more fun when playing with manual.
  BAD: Game still feels a bit shallow, 
 manager mode makes you feel unacomplished since you can drive a five star team to the ground right 
 from the get go. 
  UGLY: Crowd, the commentators ugh, some players. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: thomas10soa
Rating: 1.5
Date: Apr 5, 2008 8:57 am PT
Review:  this game made me cry it was that bad, the new control scheme is terrible doing tricks is nearly 
 impossible and dribbling is too hard
  **** EA AND STIK WIT PRO EVO 08 WAY BETTER
  
  hs ghg fh ghgdhfggfhd d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d f dfd ff d d fdf df d fd nm nmn nm nmnn 
 m m mnmnnmmnmnnm mn mn mn mn mn mn mn mn nm nm mn mn nm nm mn mnm jjh hjjhhj jhjhh jh hjh jhj jh 
 hj jhjhhj jhhj jh jhhj hj hhj jhhjjh jhhj jh j hjjhhj jhhkhkhkhk nbmnb nbmnb nbmnbm nbnb nmbbn 
 nmnbbn jhk kh jk kj jkhkj jkhjkjh jh jkh kjj hkjjhjh hjk hjjh jh hjjh jh hj jhkh kj kj kjhjh hjk 
 jk jhk hjk hjkhkj hjkhjk hjkhjk hgj hjg ghjghj hjghjghj ghj hjgjjhg ghjgghj ghj hjggjhjg hj ghj 
 ghj ghj ghj ghj ghj ghj ghjhj hjgh ghjghj ghg ghj ghjjhg ghj qwerrty hs ghg fh ghgdhfggfhd d d 
 d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d f dfd ff d d fdf df d fd nm nmn nm nmnn m m mnmnnmmnmnnm mn mn 
 mn mn mn mn mn mn nm nm mn mn nm nm mn mnm jjh hjjhhj jhjhh jh hjh jhj jh hj jhjhhj jhhj jh jhhj 
 hj hhj jhhjjh jhhj jh j hjjhhj jhhkhkhkhk nbmnb nbmnb nbmnbm nbnb nmbbn nmnbbn jhk kh jk kj jkhkj 
 jkhjkjh jh jkh kjj hkjjhjh hjk hjjh jh hjjh jh hj jhkh kj kj kjhjh hjk jk jhk hjk hjkhkj hjkhjk 
 hjkhjk hgj hjg ghjghj hjghjghj ghj hjgjjhg ghjgghj ghj hjggjhjg hj ghj ghj ghj ghj ghj ghj ghj 
 ghjhj hjgh ghjghj ghg ghj ghjjhg ghj qwerrty hs ghg fh ghgdhfggfhd d d d d d d d d d d d d d d 
 d d d d f dfd ff d d fdf df d fd nm nmn nm nmnn m m mnmnnmmnmnnm mn mn mn mn mn mn mn mn nm nm 
 mn mn nm nm mn mnm jjh hjjhhj jhjhh jh hjh jhj jh hj jhjhhj jhhj jh jhhj hj hhj jhhjjh jhhj jh 
 j hjjhhj jhhkhkhkhk nbmnb nbmnb nbmnbm nbnb nmbbn nmnbbn jhk kh jk kj jkhkj jkhjkjh jh jkh kjj 
 hkjjhjh hjk hjjh jh hjjh jh hj jhkh kj kj kjhjh hjk jk jhk hjk hjkhkj hjkhjk hjkhjk hgj hjg ghjghj 
 hjghjghj ghj hjgjjhg ghjgghj ghj hjggjhjg hj ghj ghj ghj ghj ghj ghj ghj ghjhj hjgh ghjghj ghg 
 ghj ghjjhg ghj qwerrty 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smghottie
Rating: 6
Date: Mar 24, 2008 9:58 pm PT
Review:  
  My buddy recently bought me Fifa 2008 for my 360, and the only impressive part I saw were the player 
 models and trick controls.
  
  The first and most annoying point is A. I. Yes the defensive AI is quite good, and will consistently 
 send more than one defender at you, but your teammates might as well be dead logs. They hardly 
 respond to a change of control on your part, and do nothing for themselves to further your winning 
 chances. In one case, my final game of the night against my buddy, I wanted to test how bad the 
 AI was and I was able to get the ball in MY goalie box, with an opposing teams player in control, 
 and FIVE of my players stood in a circle looking at him. Literally, not moving, just looking at 
 him while he's 20 feet from the net. 
  
  The second biggest issue was goalie control. Every goalie I have used, including those from ttop 
 club teams and interanational teams, has had an issue rushing the ball, or being too complacent 
 and letting it get within feet of the goal. Even while holding the rush button (Y) the goalie would 
 only do it sometimes. This inefficiency is phenomenal.
  
  The third issue is tackling. Maybe I am just not too good at it, but when your force a player to 
 press (A) a ball, I expect him to get into a rut with the opposing player and try to steal it. 
 Hardly is that the case for 08, and you must be in 'perfect' position to do it.
  
  There are dozens of small annoyances that really take away from the game. The opening menu is player-controlled 
 ronaldihno on a field against a goalie, but when he gives up the ball by passing, the cpu takes 
 over and FORCES Ronaldihno to chase the ball, regardless of which way your pushing the joystick 
 on the controller. The game takes command of you. 
  
  Players remember buttons, so you''ll often have a player cracking a ball out of bounds because 
 you pressed the wrong button 5 seconds earlier, and even after changing it to short pass it goes 
 80 yards.
  
  With all the money EA has locked away I'd expect they could develop a soccer game that ADVANCES 
 the genre, rather than make another stale game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pompey4life
Rating: 3.5
Date: Mar 23, 2008 9:04 am PT
Review:  I bought this game just after Christmas, and was enjoying it very much so. Untill two months after 
 i bought the game, my disc stopped inside the xbox, and ever since i have been unable to play the 
 game.
  
  Now if this was a one off occurrence, i wouldn't be so disappointed, but it would seem EA really 
 don't care about their customers satisfaction. I did the same thing last year with FIFA 07, and 
 was sure they would get it sorted out for the next edition. But no. They didn't. EA had let me 
 down, once again. And not only FIFA! Tiger Woods PGA Tour 2007 stopped after 4 months, (about 15 
 hours of actual game play) This was the breaking point for me, the last straw.
  
  I am now unable to play a game i used to love so much. And as it isn't the first time EA have let 
 me down, sorry EA, but u can shove FIFA09 elsewhere, PES here i come 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MEANMACHINE15
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 14, 2008 1:45 pm PT
Review:  Fifa 08 is probably one of the best football sim games there ever along with pro evo and this is 
 football but it is the bigger and probably the better franchise of footballing games out.
  
  FIFA brings you many different aspects of footy games around with good gaming on and offline 
 with new teams from different leagues and all brand new gaming features like be a pro and online 
 leagues.
  
  good graphics and easy gameplay help you get used to the game easy and very very quickly too and 
 have some good gaming fun with this by either playing by yourself, with a friend, or online.
  
  however it does have slight problems where you can get tackled very easy by the opposition 
 and that the game tempo is a bit slower than it's rival pes which does restict it's potential aswell 
 as there being no actual ref on the pitch at the time.
  
  however overall this is a good solid game that is defo worth playing in the near future. i give 
 this a good 9/10
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darklaer
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 18, 2008 9:06 pm PT
Review:  I say 2 words to EA Canada:
  THANK YOU. EA Canada has done a brilliant job of developing the series, and will continue to for, hopefully, a 
 long, long time. The graphics, while not rivalling Crysis, are the best in any Sports Sim ever, and 
 I only have a 480i TV. The gameplay is brilliant, the Arena is fun for trying out tricks, and the 
 AI is very good. Admittedly it was a tad easy on Amateur to Semi-Pro, but on the other levels? Perfect. The 
 number of teams is giant, and the Achievements portfolio gives you an incentive to try out different 
 teams and play your best. To Konami: GO DEVELOP BETTER!!!!!!!!!!! They put basically nothing in between 
 games. To Konami again: GET BETTER LICENSED TEAMS! HAVE MORE PEOPLE HEARD OF MAN U, LIVERPOOL AND 
 CHELSEA THEN NEWCASTLE UNITED?!??!?!? I think we all know the answer to that.
  P. S: Cristano Ronaldo is no longer my favourite player for promoting PES. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PredadorPT
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 27, 2008 3:24 pm PT
Review:  The Fifa series has always tried to get one step ahead of the Pro Evolution Soccer franchise, unfortunately 
 that wasn't possible, due to the fact that PES had a better gameplay, it was a more real simulation 
 of the game, and it had better animations, etc, This year that has changed and EA showed the gaming 
 community that it could do better than they did in the past.
  Fifa 08 is above all a great football simulation, sure it has beautiful graphics, but the most 
 important thing is that this game is a faithful representation of what football is like. Like I 
 said before the graphics are just amazing and the players look just like their real counter parts, 
 you can even see the players sweat when they come off the pitch and at the end of each match, the 
 stadiums also look great, the only complaint that I have in what concerns the graphics, is the 
 fact that the supporters are still in 2D.
  The sound is another of Fifa 08's strong points, the fans chants sound real and if you play with 
 surround sound you'll feel like you're in the stadium.
  As far as gameplay is concerned, it has to be said that it is not perfect, the game's difficulty 
 is far too high, and new comers to the series might have some trouble to win matches, however when 
 you get used to the game, the difficulty won't seem that high, and it will actually improve the 
 experience by giving you some tough competition. Fifa 08 also differs from last year's installment 
 because it has more licensed leagues, last year it had about 8 leagues, whereas this year it has 
 15.
  Multiplayer is great, the matches are competitive and intense from the start to the finish, another 
 great thing is the fact that this year you can control only one player instead of a whole team 
 in the "Be a Pro" mode (also available in single player) .
  In conclusion, Fifa 08 is the best fifa game to date, it is a extremely good at simulating a football 
 match, it has great graphics, great sound and an amazing multiplayer, a must own for every football 
 fan and 360 owner.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: UUUMMM184
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 14, 2008 11:52 am PT
Review:  This years effort is a perfectly playable game and in the short term at least is fairly 
 addictive, despite the various foibles. Theres much to admire in terms of the graphics, 
 the online elements, the atmosphere, but as ever theres still room for improvement. 
  
  Gameplay: Somewhat stunted, the action is often middle-to-middle as opposed to end-to- end, 
 and the lack of goal chances can prove frustrating.
  
  Graphics: Player animations are up to scratch, the close-ups are impressive, and the authentically 
 reproduced stadiums look superb.
  
  Sound: Martin Tyler and Andy Grays commentary extends to comments on individual clubs, the 
 crowd noise is atmospheric, and goalscorers are even announced over the tannoy.
  
  Value: You could easily play out an entire season, with or without the fiddly management mode, 
 and the suite of online options gives it further legs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lolhrock
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 11, 2008 10:19 am PT
Review:  --- A VERY DETAILED REVIEW ---
  
  I used to always buy Pro Evolution, even when it was called ISS. This year I read what other people 
 were saying about it, "How there are no upgrades" and "It's exactly the same" and I was really 
 disappointed as I thought that I would have to buy a crappy Fifa game, as i could not buy another 
 PES game as i needed some big improvements. 
  I saw that Fifa had a LOT of new improvements and features, and i was shocked at how good it looked. 
 I bought it and I love it, I have been playing football since I was six, so i know what is realistic 
 and what is not. This year Fifa NEARLY got it spot on. You will notice i put "nearly" in capital 
 letters as they were really close. 
  The good - 
  - Arena mode ( At the start and when a match is loading you will be taken to a arena and control 
 Ronaldinho, there you can practice your skills and free kicks)
  - The trick system ( You really feel like you can break your defender down, and accomplish something, 
 unlike PES skills ( heel dash and step overs, it makes me laugh when i see them bragging about 
 there skills)
  - Features, and by features i mean modes, there is a lot of fun to be had with this game, they 
 also have a new mode called Be A Pro ( You choose a team and on that team you get to be one player, 
 if you can do this well, it can be a lot of fun)
  - Gameplay, ( It feels so realistic, you don't sprint 50mph past your defender while doing step 
 overs. If you sprint then you have less control like in real life. The gameplay is NEARLY perfect)
 
  - Players faces are realistic as well , but you can expect that on both games. ( i don't know 
 which games faces are better)
  
  I could go on for ages about how great I feel this game is, but now it's time for the flaws.
 
  
  Flaws - 
  - hmmm, The through ball, they made this too hard to pull off ( the defender will intercept the 
 ball most of the time)
  - Scoring - OK , you don't want a 6-0 thrashing every game, but the keeper is 85% likely to block 
 you shot, i would say it is 75% likely the keeper will save t even when you are one on one.
  Difficulty - This may just be me because i am used to PES, but i feel that it is hard, its good 
 that the CPU is intelligent but its too hard to get past them and score, its not that hard in real 
 life. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -Saigo-
Rating: 5.5
Date: Mar 4, 2008 4:08 pm PT
Review:  I've been a gamer since before old school was cool and a footballer since I could walk, so naturally 
 FIFA has been a game of choice for years. 
  
  To be honest, I've been waiting for 08 like a pre-teen waiting for her first school dance, and 
 like a Cinderella story with a tragic ending I couldn't have been more disappointed. FIFA 08 is 
 a broken disgrace that scars the hollowed history of it's predecessors with empty graphics, poor 
 music, amateur animations, recycled commentary, and is in the end -- nothing more than eye candy. 
 
  
  For anyone who's ever laced up a pair of boots and made a run up the pitch, the countless mistakes 
 and inconsistencies that mar this title will stick out like a fat girl in a beauty contest. The 
 refereeing mechanics are broken with linesman mistakingly calling offsides and lopsided with unbalanced 
 penalties. The shooting controls are impossible, the passing is off target, and the defense is 
 often too fast and too good to make playing even the slightest bit pleasurable. FIFA 08 also lacks 
 a "Create a Team" option, and suffers with a weak "Create a Player" feature that falls sort of 
 previous years past. Facial animations are deformed and unnatural and player movements seem stressed 
 and I often felt like I was observing a game of pick up soccer at the special Olympics without 
 the feel good feeling of charity work. 
  
  
  All in all FIFA 08 should be avoided at all costs in hopes that EA will pick up the slack and put 
 some honest effort into the 09 installment. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LostAdvenger
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 4, 2008 1:29 pm PT
Review:  I've never played an organized game of soccer in my life. After about three or four games of FIFA 
 08 and some frequent online referencing to the rules of soccer, I'm finally starting to get the 
 hang of this.
  
  Graphics: The graphics are pretty straight forward. They'll remind you of every EA 08 sports game 
 out there right now. The only part I didn't like is that the players don't have any facial expressions. 
 Their mouths stay closed and their eyes always look forward. Otherwise, the animations are pretty 
 fantastic.
  One other thing I don't like about the graphics is the side camera you have to use when you play 
 with somebody on the same screen. It really screws up your depth perception. 
  
  Sound: Great soundtrack. I don't think I've ever heard a single song on the game, but it gets you 
 into the soccer mood.
  
  Gameplay: Be a Superstar mode is what taught me most of the rules and regulations of the game. 
 It's also the best way to see your player pull off some sweet tricks. Manager mode is nothing special. 
 It's not bad, but it's not too special either. The FIFA lounge confused the heck out of me. I saw 
 the word "cheap shots" so I spent the first game doing my best to injure other players. Turns out 
 this mode gives you tokens to use as advantages over your opponent.
  This game also has quite a steep learning curve. The tricks are hard to master and some of the 
 kicking interface is way too deep. 
  
  I'm giving this an 8.5 because of the minor visual flaws and the steep learning curve. Otherwise, 
 it could very well be worth your $50.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: linkedup8484
Rating: 2
Date: Feb 3, 2008 2:58 pm PT
Review:  I got this game a while ago because I wanted a soccer game and I read the reviews that FIFA 08 
 was a lot better than PES2008. At first it didn't seem too bad, the online multiplayer Be a Pro 
 mode is somewhat fun when you play just one position (but there there are only 10 players max per 
 game or 5 per team) but there are some extremely irritating things that make me realize that this 
 game just sucks. 
  
  For one thing, the players move entirely too slow and are WAY too slow to react. If a defender 
 is coming at you, you basically have to pass or try to dribble (dribbling is impossible by the 
 way which is what I have read in other reviews- it is true- you MAY be able to get by one defender 
 but you will never get past the 2nd) *anyway*, you have to press those buttons BEFORE you get the 
 ball because it takes so long for the player you are controlling to do anything, once you press 
 the button the defender will have stolen it before your player reacts to the buttons you pressed. 
 That is by far the most annoying thing because you will press a button, and the player won't do 
 anything and then will lose the ball.
  
  And when I said you have to press a button BEFORE you get the ball, well that also sucks because 
 the game will make you do the button you press while you have the ball w/ the previous player with 
 the NEXT player as soon as if not before the ball leaves the previous player (stupidest thing ever) . 
 And if you press a button like pass a few times to try to get one off, well the game will make 
 you pass with the next few players who get the ball. Did FIFA programmers think that maybe we would 
 want to do something different w/ the ball once we get it instead of the buttons we pressed with 
 previous players? Nope of course not which explains a lot about why this game is so bad. 
  
  So if you press the shoot button with one player (which is also the clear the ball for defense 
 button) it will make the next player shoot from like midfield if you were just trying to clear. 
 Even more annoying is when you are trying to run one direction and pass, like run to the left to 
 get away from a defender and get a pass off, and then you press pass it will pass it to the left 
 OUT OF BOUNDS instead of passing to the right where you're pressing towards when you are actually 
 about to release the pass. And half the balls you pass go to NO ONE... would it be that difficult 
 to program it so it goes to the nearest player when you press to their direction? Apparently not 
 for the FIFA programmers who don't know how to make an enjoyable game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dan_scfc
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 31, 2008 10:02 am PT
Review:  I've bought FIFA every year since 97. bought PES 2008 this year thought this is S**T. I went back 
 to my Fifa and thought this is the best ever. The actual may be slow but it realistic you feel 
 quite proud when you score. It has a ridiculous amount of licenced players and stadia. It feels 
 very authetic. The manager mode is not the best but its okay. However, the online is where FIFA 
 cacks on PES. It has things like online leagues, interactive leagues, simple 1-0n-1 howver my fave 
 is Be a pro online. where you control 1 player its so fun especially with your friends. It encourages 
 team work and it is ace when you stuff a 13 year old cocky cockney who really gets on your nerves. 
 :D. The graphics are also stunning. People who say PES is better. Your in denial or clinicly insane. 
 Buy FIFA 08 you wont be disappointed.
  
  Game of the Year?
  Dont be stupid! Best FIFA ever though 
::::::

::::::
UserName: akvoz
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 22, 2008 7:41 am PT
Review:  Fifa 08 is the best soccer game ever
  PES is good But Fifa 08 Is 10x Better
  have a the best Gameplay ever, the Be a Pro camera is very good to do some tricks and fake a kick. Is 
 The soccer games are best to play with friends especialy with 4 players. The New Online Multplayer 
 Games are very good, and nice to play with lots of friends
  Fifa is the best soccer game maker i love it and u would to the graphics and gameplay have changed 
 so much since fifa 94
  
  Fifa 08 Fifa 08 Fifa 08 Fifa 08 Fifa 08 Fifa 08 Fifa 08 Fifa 08 Fifa 08 Fifa 08 Fifa 08 Fifa 08 
 Fifa 08 Fifa 08 Fifa 08 Fifa 08 Fifa 08 Fifa 08 Fifa 08 Fifa 08 Fifa 08 Fifa 08 Fifa 08 Fifa 08 
 Fifa 08 Fifa 08 Fifa 08 Fifa 08 Fifa 08 Fifa 08 Fifa 08 Fifa 08 Fifa 08 Fifa 08 Fifa 08 Fifa 08 
 Fifa 08 Fifa 08 Fifa 08 Fifa 08 Fifa 08 Fifa 08 Fifa 08 Fifa 08 Fifa 08 Fifa 08 Fifa 08 Fifa 08 
 Fifa 08 Fifa 08 Fifa 08 Fifa 08 Fifa 08 Fifa 08 Fifa 08 Fifa 08 Fifa 08 Fifa 08 Fifa 08 Fifa 08 
 Fifa 08 Fifa 08 Fifa 08 Fifa 08 Fifa 08 Fifa 08 Fifa 08 Fifa 08 IS 
  
  THE BEST SOCCER GAME EVER MAKED 
::::::

::::::
UserName: danzo337
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 20, 2008 11:22 pm PT
Review:  I've been a soccer player/fan my whole childhood. This game is definately something else. The movements 
 and gameplay make this game very intense. If you can master the art of using the analog you will 
 love this game. It takes awhile to get used to if you never played any of EA's recent games but 
 once you get it, it'll make this game shine. I don't understand why some people have given it a 
 low rating, the fact that you have so much control of the ball make this game like no other soccer 
 game. You must have patience along with the soccer vision to utilize the game's full potential. 
 I wouldn't recommend this game to the average player as the controller scheme could be pretty advanced 
 compared to other games. Does require some thumb skills! Another game to consider adding if you 
 are the sports gamer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TristanH12
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 19, 2008 2:45 pm PT
Review:  I myself do not consider myself a football fan. However in the world of worldwide sports, I must 
 say that FIFA has taught me about Soccer/Football more so than I would have ever learned anywhere 
 else. This game is responsible for bringing me and my friends closer and allowing me to learn more 
 about their zest and zeal for this sport. I was truly shocked at how many players names they knew, 
 leagues, stats, and even teams. I did not know China had a team.
  
  Regardless, the game is spectacular and amazing. The Single Player/Offline mode is amazing. I like 
 the Manager Mode. I was never able to fully experience saving it because sometimes the 360 would 
 mess up and spew out Disc Read errors or what nots or not load, but whenever we had hours to spend 
 we would do all that we could. Unlockables and skills, trades and the like run rampant.
  
  Online is where its at in my opinion. The game has such a large mode of playing. There seems to 
 be thousands of players on at all times of the night, little to no lag at all times, and even then 
 players are usually not as cranky and quitters as they are on other systems. I dont think there 
 is much difference in relation to your total accumulation of points either whether you win or lose.
 
  
  Players are quite entertaining as they have a wide variety of emotions expressed when they score 
 or get penalized, the announcers dont repeat much, and the soundtrack is perhaps the best collection 
 of licensed music in a game for 2007. I love it to death.
  
  In conclusion, FIFA 08 for the 360 is amazing, and perhaps a must have for any FIFA/Football/Soccer 
 fan in the world! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: patmac312456
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 19, 2008 9:35 am PT
Review:  This game is a great game to play alone and an even better game to play with your friends. Definitely 
 some of the most heated battles i have ever had with friends sprung from this game. Spent many 
 nights playing out cups with friends. I never got to into the controlling one player mode as i 
 usually play this game as more of a social game than an individual game. i tried the management 
 mode, I like the way of increasing the players with experience points earned based on match performance 
 and possibly age (but i'm not positive on that) and then you can pick and choose which attributes 
 to increase with the experience points earned. A lot better than say madden where attributes are 
 automatically increased or lowered in certain weeks and at the end of the season. It seems that 
 all the superstars in the game (overall of say 85 or above) are just far better than the rest of 
 the batch by a disproportional amount, which is not necessarily a bad thing because it makes it 
 easier to take over a game or on the opposite spectrum come back in a game. It makes you a soccer 
 fan as well as a fan of players who lead you to victory against your friends, and Rooney is a god. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: liam437
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 17, 2008 8:03 am PT
Review:  It has took me a while to get around to reviewing this game. Definitely best of fifas collection 
 so far. But its not without its faults. EA's FIFA Soccer franchise stretches all the way back to 
 1993, and it's been the dominant force in soccer videogames ever since. Amongst the more hardcore 
 gamers, however, there's been only one soccer game worth playing since the turn of the century, 
 and that's been Konami's Pro Evolution Soccer series. For FIFA 08 then, there are (once again) 
 two important questions to be answered - is this year's FIFA better than its predecessor and does 
 it do a better job recreating the beautiful game than Pro Evo?
  
  That last question won't be answered until Pro Evo 2008 hits stores, but we can tell you right 
 now that FIFA 08 is a definite improvement over last year's game. The most dramatic and noticeable 
 changes in FIFA 08 are in the physics of the game, which combine with nicely tweaked controls. 
 Chipping/lobbing was an element that felt - at times - like it came down to pure luck in FIFA 07, 
 whereas it's far more fluid and controlled this time around. Tackling too has also been beefed 
 up, a nice addition being when two players go for the ball, it will now spin away from you both, 
 rather than sticking to your feet like glue. You'll then have to jostle and battle to gain a clear 
 advantage in getting the ball back. There are other new additions, from step-overs to ball rolls 
 and body feints which are all far easier to execute this time around. These new moves are more 
 reflective of a genuine soccer match and a nice enhancement in this instalment. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: katz_6988
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 16, 2008 11:01 am PT
Review:  Being a fan of FIFA, i was expecting a graphically improved version of FIFA 07, which i got. I 
 was pretty disappointed in the complexity of some of the controls and the difficulty of the game. 
 Yeah, maybe i just started playing not too long ago, and maybe i do suck, but many would be able 
 to agree that this game is just a bit too tricky for someone new to the game franchise. 
  
  The music soundtrack is great, but they could have added some more better known tracks. The game 
 commentators have alot more lines than they used to, making their narration of the game not as 
 repetitive as some of the older FIFA games.
  
  The graphics are probably the main improvement. The players are very detailed, and you are able 
 to distinguished between the more popular ones from their team mates. The movements of the players 
 is also a lot more smoother than previous games, making the game feel more realistic. 
  
  I enjoyed the game, but wouldnt recommend it to first time players of the FIFA series. Veterans 
 of the series might be stumped by the new dificulty of the game and controls, and new players might 
 be overwhelmed and frustrated. My suggestion: Rent the game first before spending $49.99 on it. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sir_Peppiny
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jan 11, 2008 1:17 pm PT
Review:  A step back from 07 in my opinion.
  
  The good: Heading has finally been restored to a realistic and powerful weapon. The referees are 
 also not so anal retentive as they are in 07. You can slide tackle without fear of some retarded 
 red card for nothing.
  
  The bad: This new system where AI players can "shield" you from ever taking the ball without a 
 sliding tackle. Also, AI defenders can take the ball from you and your player will seemingly be 
 stunned or dazed for a few seconds. Your strikers also commonly stumble over the ball in response 
 to pressure, which is ridiculous. Trapping the ball is difficult and standing tackles cause the 
 ball to shoot away rather far from the jockeying players.
  
  Small details: I liked having real pictures of players in their bios in 07. Now its just what they 
 look like on the virtual field and is pretty lame. Also, there is no way in hell Robbie Savage 
 can run down Nicolas Anelka. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: segard
Rating: 1
Date: Jan 6, 2008 4:57 pm PT
Review:  I have Fifa 08, it came in an xbox 360 bundle, it has a great presentation, and just starting the 
 game looks beautiful and takes you to an arena where you control one player against the goalie. 
 Brilliant idea, ,you get to learn the basic controls and skills and so... When you have only one 
 player in the pitch, the game is great, moves are fluid, flamboyant and really impressive but in 
 the real game things just dont work. The pace eof players is weird, to trap the ball in aerial 
 balls is too hard to learn, the game just feels awkward, it has some rewarding momentos playing 
 be a pro online, but thats just it. I cant wait for winning eleven to come out and play football 
 as I like it, or as you like it, perhaps playing on counter atack, or down the wings or whatever 
 is the style you choose, wining eleven is just beter, the controls are intuitive and everything 
 feels just right. And even the strong points of fifa like player faces and looks are not that good, 
 maybe beckham looks identical but all the other players? not even close, and the expression on 
 their faces is just weird, its like someone played with mario 64 face lift too much. Still, there 
 are not too many options out there so maybe u have to stick and play this game... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wildnine00
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 1, 2008 7:26 pm PT
Review:  FIFA 08 is an excellent soccer game. The presentation is top-notch, and the gameplay is solid. 
 Like most FIFA games, the licensed soundtrack features all of the coolest tracks you've never heard. 
 I have actually put this game in my 360, turned up the volume on my TV, and gone to a pause menu 
 so I'd have some cool stuff to listen to while I do my laundry. 
  
  It is a difficult game however, as I'm sure you've read elsewhere. If you expect to pick this game 
 up and win your first match on the easiest difficulty, think again. You won't. This will certainly 
 be a turn-off for some gamers, but if you spend a few hours getting the hang of the more subtle 
 aspect of the game (i. e. the trick system and the different methods of passing and shooting) , you'll 
 eventually start winning. The game is tough, but that is not to say that it's not fun. I'm having 
 a blast with this game. It's simply one of the best sports games I've ever played, and the Be A 
 Pro mode will challenge the way you view sports games in general. 
  
  It's hard to find fault with this game, but here's about all there is to be found: the difficulty 
 level on easy is definitely too high. The menus are a little confusing at first. The commentary 
 is noticeably repetitive, especially if you play one team often. 
  
  After mentioning the game's shortcomings, here's a rundown of areas where FIFA 08 really shines: 
 the presentation leaves little to nothing to be desired. The soundtrack is killer. It captures 
 the feel of the game beautifully. The new Be a Pro play mode is very entertaining. 
  
  In conclusion, this game is very fun and most certainly worthy of purchase. If you don't mind a 
 challenge, or a soccer game that requires you to learn more than just the locations of the pass 
 and shoot buttons, then buy this game by all means. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: shadowflames100
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 30, 2007 1:51 am PT
Review:  I first played FIFA 08 a few days ago, and when I first played, it was amazing. You could create a 
 player, practise in this place called the Arena, andoverall, since I love soccer, it was briliant. Inevitably, I 
 would find a few flaws, although nothing more than in the Instant Replay function, the goalie's head 
 going through the defender's chest as he (in vain) tried to block one of my brilliant shots. (Note: This 
 was in FIFA 04, PC Version.) That was the main spoiler, although nothing bad enough to stop me gving 
 a 'Perfect'. Clearly best in the FIFA Soccer series, and that's a good series in its own right.
 
  Pros:
  
  
  
  Good team AI, oppostion AI.
  
  Not too easy, not too hard.
  
  You can create a player.
  
  Fun learning the trick system.
  
  You have a place to practise (The 
 Arena, found when loading games, before the Main Menu screen [You can choose whether to go to the 
 Menu, or play] ) .
  
  Great replay function (although it still has the goalie-diving-through-player glitch) .
  
  Has 
 realistic player characters in-game and in profiles (apart from the created players' profiles; just 
 show an empty black head-and-neck area.)
  
  
  Cons:
  
  The goalie-diving-through-player glitch in replay.
  
  Annoying if you expect to win from the 
 start.
  
  You can only do some tricks with the likes of Ronaldinho, Wayne Rooney, Kaka, etc. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GMFC07
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 29, 2007 10:56 am PT
Review:  This years instalment of fifa is with out a doubt the best in the series. In past years fifa was 
 boring and it was far too easy to score and it coudnt cut the musturd compared to pro evo. This 
 year however fifa is much better than pro evo.
  
  First of all fifa has brought in the new game mode called be a pro this is where you take the player 
 of your choice and control him throughout a season or just a single match. This mode is very addictive 
 and you can be hooked on it for hours.
  
  The other great things about the new fifa is There are so many different teams and so many leagues 
 the unlockables are also great with everthing from New football boots to different player celebrations.
 
  
  All and all then this is the best in the fifa series with out a doubt. If you were thinking of buying 
 pro evo dont bother because it hasnt changed a bit still the same old game. While the fifa franchaise 
 is going from strength to strength who knows mabye next year fifa will create the best footballing 
 game ever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: twopic58
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 28, 2007 10:22 pm PT
Review:  Fifa 08 was a big step from Fifa 07. This year, it was actually a little harder to score. You can't 
 just run straight downfield and just shoot the ball from a stupid place. The goalies are a little 
 smarter but are still a little dumb. The graphics are amazing. The players actually look like they 
 do in real life. There is a new mode called be a pro in which you pick any player you want from 
 any league you want and you control him and only him through a game. The only disappointment about 
 this mode is that you only play one game. Manager mode is good like it is every year. The arena 
 is fun and the fan shop makes it even better. You can buy points to put towards your player in 
 the arena to make them better or you can buy points to make your created players better. This is 
 one of the best football games ever made and it set the bar high for future football games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mattyphair2K7
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 23, 2007 4:17 am PT
Review:  One thing that E. A. have done to make this years Fifa so much better than the other years is that 
 they have added a new thing called "BE A PRO." In BE A PRO you pick one player and play as him 
 and try to make him a legend, it may get boring after a few hours but at least Fifa is trying new 
 things unlike pro Evo which as got worse.
  
  The online play of Fifa 08 has also changed for the better as there are a lot more things you can 
 do such as the interactive leagues and even playing with friends has got better.
  
  Everything about this years Fifa is better than last years as the graphics have got better as have 
 the visual effects.
  
  While Pro evo have taken a step back Fifa has taken a step forward and finally become a next gen 
 football game.
  
  For once Fifa finally beats Pro Evolution soccer and becomes the best football game ever made! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Satanmar
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 17, 2007 6:02 am PT
Review:  It's fair to say that EA have made some great steps in improving Fifa 08 this year, it's a much 
 improved game that any football fan will enjoy. Offering a solid classic Fifa experience on the 
 Current Gen consoles (XBOX 360 &amp; PS3) that any football fan will be able to pick up and enjoy.
 
  
  As always EA have made changes to 08 and most of the changes are great, the game plays a more smoother 
 game of footy dispite it still often feeling scripted (Unlike Pro Evolution Soocer's more free 
 style of play) and it's still one my biggest critisms of the game. It still feels like shots are 
 scripted to often dispite a new system being put into the game and when compared to PES this is 
 a surprisingly deep issue for many fans of football. Another issue is with scoring, unlike PES 
 it feels more rougher and stiffer compared to it's rival.
  
  Though don't take that away from Fifa 08 which offers a nice pleasant football experience. By far 
 the best new feature is 'Be a Pro' which though not as well used as it could have been is a superb 
 new addition to the game. Giving you the ability to play as one specific player on a team it offers 
 a totally different experience of football. For instance if your a striker it's you job to make 
 the runs through the defense and away from your marker, if your a creative midfielder it's your 
 job to watch for those runs and defend if need be. It's great! and the game is also scored you 
 on how you do, for example make a sliding tackle work you get a green ''+'' whch affects your score 
 bar. Miss the sliding tackle and you get a red ''-'' on your score bar. It works very well although 
 I do feel more could have been done with this feature.
  
  All the usual Fifa features are here and it looks great dispite the horrible looking facial features 
 of footballers, for instance Wayne Rooney looks like a baboon and David Beckham looks..... well 
 kinda of like a alien! other then that graphics are fine and animation looks good if sometimes 
 there are ugly looking moments.
  
  Overall I enjoyed Fifa 08, it's a solid improvment. But I still feel that Fifa would be better 
 suited if they had a more free style of football like PES offers brilliantly! it all still feels 
 slow and scripted and yet EA keep with this style... would be nice to see something new in the 
 gameplay deparrtment. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lfcgangster2k7
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 8, 2007 3:10 pm PT
Review:  one of best games on on xbox 360 i wud say skill system is to confusing anyway this i say is for 
 only for people who are in realistic type of football
  i wud say this though pro evo 2008 is a master game to learn but i say fifa 08 is better on ps3 
 n 360 but ps2 psp n ds ave been owned n pwned by pro evo 2008 . u see pro evo is such a hard game 
 to play like i don't know how to decribe it but its just got more force in it unlike fifa 08 is 
 like a skill game u need to outplay the defenders with mostly skills if u know wat i mean 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PETTZ10
Rating: 4
Date: Dec 6, 2007 9:06 am PT
Review:  so this is the definitive football game (along with pro-e) well i aint buying it ever time i read 
 the reviews and see the advertisements i think yes thats what football is all about silky skill 
 and getting stuck in...... but these games never deliver in the ways they promise nothing about 
 the players is realistic shooting with the wrong foot, 50p headers, facing one way the playing 
 a 30yard pass the other i dont like it one bit!!!!!!!!!
  so much so that i shall never again be buying a fifa or pro evo game in the future............. until 
 i see a really good ad with ronaldinho and messi and roon..... nonono what am i saying NEVER AGAIN!!!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lenarius
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 30, 2007 4:28 pm PT
Review:  To make it crystal clear, this is not the most realistic soccer video game available on the market. 
 But it is, in my opinion, by far the funnest soccer video game available. 
  I played Fifa 06 a ton on the regular xbox, as well as winning eleven 9, Fifa 07 for xbox 360 a 
 little (hated it) , and Pro Evolution Winning Eleven 2007 a little on 360, so those are the games 
 that I'm going to be comparing Fifa 08 to. 
  
  Graphics: Ffia 08 is definitely teh best looking soccer game to date, as should be expected. Player 
 models are better than ever, both close up and during normal gameplay. 
  
  Sound: The announcers are the best they've ever been. They say the names of the players as they 
 receive the ball, which is pretty cool. The crowd and field noise is excellent as always as well. 
 
  
  Gameplay: This is definitely the most important aspect of the game, and Fifa 08 has truly excellent 
 gameplay. It's hard to explain, but 08 feels and plays the way I want a soccer game to play. The 
 trick system (hold left trigger and move right thumbstick) is really fun to play with, and it can 
 help you juke out the last defender to get that game winning goal. Honestly, it's hard to say much 
 more about the gameplay without going into tiny details, just know that this game seriously plays 
 great. 
  
  All-in-all, this is a really sweet playing soccer game that is simply a ton of fun. I don't think 
 that the learning curve is bad at all, but it could definitely take some getting used to if you 
 haven't played a lot of soccer games before. This is the soccer game to buy for xbox 360, all the 
 other 360 soccer games hardly compare. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ali_siddiqui_96
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 28, 2007 10:47 am PT
Review:  This game has got the gutts and finally beated PES 2008 for good, but this game could have been 
 improve. d. My friend just got got his console banned and he wants to save his goals and he can't 
 upload and we cant record them we have to use a camera Man that stinks!! Ps2's fifa 08 is even 
 better Xbox 360 Fifa 08 Score: 9.4/10 PS2 Fifa 08 Score:9.5/10 I thought this game was going to 
 be perfect but it's not i guess i will just hv to wait for Fifa 2010 Word Cup. Now come on who's 
 with me!!! I am right and i know it and know 1 can disagree i know everyone will agree therefore 
 PS2's fifa 08 is better than xbox 360's but never in graphics. And Chelsea is the best in this 
 game and Xbox 360 is better than PS3 RIGHT?? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: goduffgo
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 27, 2007 11:26 am PT
Review:  i have put the quote "almost but not quite" on both FIFA 08 and PES 2008,
  the reason is quite simple... not one of the games actually improves from last year, and for me 
 PES goes downhill.
  
  The great new thing in FIFA this year are the "be a Pro" absolutly love it. This is the mode where 
 you select one player and you control only that player on the pitch. I used Fabregas in CM and 
 ran straight to the box and scored a blinder. You do feel you have achieved something but it will 
 seem too easy after a wile.
  
  there are some set back to this year for example stadiums done have the fullest of detail there 
 should be. EG The Emirates, has the nike ticks, red boards etc. But there's none at all. Dissapointing, 
 The Emirates on FIFA 07 on my psp looked better than the 360 version! But teams look pretty top 
 notch and there all there!
  Also camera angle is really high up and far away.
  
  I have no complaints about the atmosphere and almost real!!
  
  8.5 great but still could be 
 a whole lot better!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: HMFCJD
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 27, 2007 5:57 am PT
Review:  Reviewing football games has always been tough for me, as a huge football fan ill always find alot 
 of things that can be improved, this years FIFA give me alot to moan about aswell!
  
  In no way is FIFA08 a bad game, infact its a very good game, i cant tell you how many hours of 
 revision and homework time ive sqaundered by playing this, There are however, a few flas which 
 couldve been easily helped.
  
  The first time i played FIFA08 was at a mates house, The first thing that struck me were the clean 
 menus and the very cool arena feature allowing you to choose a player and mess around to youre 
 hearts content. When we got into the game i realised how nice the presentation was, terrific commmentary, 
 nice intros of players walking into the stadium and warming up before the game, its very hard to 
 play FIFA and noy be shocked that youre not infact watchin a live game on sky sports! FIFA plays 
 alot more like real football this year, encouraging you to make neat build up play instead of just 
 ploughing your way into the goal. The one quarrel i have with the gameplay though is the passing, 
 alot of time while lpaying you have a perfect chance at a through ball is far to easily intercepted 
 by the center backs. The passing is really the only flaw with the gameplay however as FIFA allows 
 you to play a unique footballing experience the skill stick isnt too powerfull either as it was 
 in last years incarnations.
  
  Not many new features have been added to the game modes, the ever faithfull manager mode is still 
 present, Along with tournament mode which exlpains itself really, and the all new "Be a pro" mode 
 allowing you to take controll of your favourite star and play however you want, this is a decent 
 addition but many critics have found it dissapointing that you cant use it in season mode, only 
 for a single match, this didnt bother me however as i mostly concentrated on manager mode.
  
  as usual in FIFA games the graphis are fantastic the player models look the part and the stadiums 
 (even though there arent many) look fantastic. Atmosphere in games is superb i distinctly remember 
 scoring a 90 minute winner with Arsenal at the Emirates the crowed went ballistinc, it really got 
 to me! The most dissapointing thing for me about the graphics was no weather types. its always 
 sunny and bright, it really sucks the atmosphere out of champions league games as your used to 
 lpaying in the dark with the floodlights beating down on the stadium, surely it wouldnt have killed 
 EA to put some darkness and a wee bit of rain in the game? It takes a bit of realism away from 
 playing with an english or scottish team aswell because its sunny from july till may.
  
  Although there are a few flaws i havnt enjoyed a FIFA game as much as this since FIFA 2003, if 
 EA can fix some of these flaws, then FIFA looks like a hot prospect for the future. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sivasiva
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 27, 2007 4:49 am PT
Review:  Fifa 08 is the best soccer game in the fifa series and has everything that makes it the best game 
 ever. My favourite is the be a pro mode where we just control a player out of 11 players in a team 
 during a match and the camera is tilted to tele which makes it interesting. The manager mode has 
 really improved a lot and its many times better than the fifa 07 manager mode. This fifa 08 manager 
 mode features up to 30 leagues. The gameplay is excellent and the trick system is good. There is 
 also another mode called the tournament mode. You can create a international tournament or a club 
 league or anything you want. I created a international league where my team was italy and you can 
 select the number of groups and teams per group. Fifa is the best series so far and it is worts 
 trying it out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thedeadone84
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 25, 2007 12:29 pm PT
Review:  Fifa 08 is the first football game I have played in several years, and the first one I have bought 
 in about 10 years. When I first played this game I thought it was amazing, everything was so realistic 
 and you had to play with skill to win.
  
  However, the more I played this game, the more I realised that pretty much everything in it is 
 broken. First off, the referee (or absence of the referee, whichever way you look at it) . The fact 
 that the referee isn't on the pitch during the game struck me as strange, but on its own, this 
 isn't that bad. For me, it was the quality of the ref that completely ruined that game. In a word, 
 it's disastrous. Virtually every decision is either completely wrong, or punished with the wrong 
 severity.
  
  For example, I found it very difficult to earn a card, even if I deliberately fouled a player. 
 I've had this game for about a month and play nearly every day, and in that time I've seen two 
 red cards (one of them mine) , and neither offence deserved one. In fact one offence didn't even 
 deserve a card at all. I've lost count of the number of times I've been brought down inside the 
 penalty box and not been awarded a kick. This happens all over the pitch, not just up front, yet 
 just as often I am penalised for a tackle that was completely fair, even when the other player 
 is left on his feet and sometimes even able to take the ball back.
  
  The game tries to be clever by playing the advantage rule, but even this simple thing is completely 
 inadequate. As I am writing this review I am playing the game to give me ideas to write in this 
 review. I am England, against Sweden. I've just been tackled in the box but Rooney stayed on his 
 feet and the ball rolled forward as the defender completely missed it. Foul, yes? Well hang on; 
 I have the advantage so play goes on. Rooney gets the ball back and shoots  Goal!! So I am now 
 thinking that the ref got it right for once. But then I hear the commentators say "Penalty!" and 
 I'm presented with Beckham ready to take a spot kick. I am completely baffled. I hate being cheated 
 and this game really makes me feel cheated, because some of the programming is so bad. Because 
 I hate being cheated I have lost count of the amount of times I have quit the game and started 
 again because awful refereeing has cost me the game. If I miss this penalty, I will be restarting. 
 I know it's a cop out but I'm not a sore loser, I just hate game that make me feel that I can't 
 win because it's so broken.
  
  Beckham scored, just. Keeper nearly reached the ball but not quite. So the game goes on. Its worth 
 knowing that not every game goes like this, but this is the third time I am playing this game vs. 
 Sweden because of bad refereeing. Overall though, I think it's fairly safe to say that this game 
 has the worst refereeing quality ever. Last time I owned a fifa game was fifa 95 on the mega drive 
 2. The ref was much better in that game.
  
  On to the next problem. Team AI. EA claims that players make 1000 decisions a second. This may 
 be true, but it would help if players made 1000 intelligent decisions instead of 1000 stupid decisions.
 
  
  The computer team AI is fine, players run into good positions, find open space to receive the ball, 
 etc. they also swarm around my striker, making it very difficult to do anything at all but lost 
 the ball. The player team though, is a whole different story. My players seem to follow defenders, 
 rather than evade them. And if I'm on defence, it a nightmare to get my players to pressure attackers. 
 My players will constantly backtrack and run to the side leaving the striker with a clear run to 
 goal. This happens not matter what tactics I choose to get my team to apply pressure. Occasionally, 
 things go right on both attack and defence, and when this happens it's a truly brilliant game to 
 play. Sadly though, this is the exception rather than the rule.
  
  Another bad decision just happened, Terry was booked. I slid in early and fell short of the ball. 
 Then the Swede ran into him before he got up. Terry wasn't even moving any longer, but the Swede 
 fell down and I was booked. Its things like this that gets really frustrated with the game. It's 
 made worse by the fact that sometimes this game is the most fun I've ever had on my Xbox. I'm not 
 sure if the different referees have different 'personalities' but the one I have for this game 
 is now blowing for virtually every tackle I make, fair or not. Yet sometimes I deliberately bring 
 down opposition players from behind, the get the ball and carry on playing with no punishment at 
 all.
  
  Sorry, got side tracked. One other slightly annoying this is the opposing team always run faster 
 than my team. Even when I sprint, and even when I'm off the ball the other team has it. And, I 
 find it extremely difficult to get my players to move towards the ball when it's loose; they seem 
 far more interested in something in the crowd and run towards them instead. Obviously the computer 
 team does not suffer from this, which results in many, many interceptions that in real life would 
 have been totally impossible to pull off. However I have noticed the most if not all modern football 
 games suffer these same problems. I rented pro evo before I bought fifa and the same things happened 
 in that. Why, I do not know.
  
  It's a real shame that the good times in this game are not there all the time or this game would 
 be worth at least 9 out of 10. As it is though, I can't really score it higher than 7, and its 
 only the good parts that bring it this high. Because sometimes, make no mistake, this game is possibly 
 the best I've ever played, then next thing you know, I feel like launching my pad through my brand 
 new HDTV.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: KingDibbles
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 25, 2007 7:13 am PT
Review:  This is a vast improvement on Fifa 07. The graphics, the player models, the gameplay and most importantly, 
 almost every team on the face of the earth and the A-League from hell. You get 23 real stadiums 
 and 4 generic models though mysteriously the Bernabeau is nowhere to be found.
  
  The gameplay is a vast improvement with a more methodic style of play.
  
  The online is once 
 again the icing on the cake with no sign of any lag and with the recent update allowing for 5v5 
 Be A Pro there is endless fun to be had here.
  
  To wrap things up, dont even bother with pro ev because its mainly the same boring old dross, whereas 
 Fifa is heading in exciting new directions. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SpartanDavie
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 23, 2007 12:54 pm PT
Review:  I have had most of the Fifa series and have had 3 of the Pro Evo series. I have also played Pro 
 Evo 2008 at my friends.
  
  This game is great! The graphics is better than ANY football game to date. The real stadiums and 
 player name and kits brings full reality to the game.
  
  They have finally made good achievements too! After 2006 world cup being far too easy, and 2007 
 being extremely difficult, they have now made around 250 points fairly achieveable and the rest 
 for the more competative players, i currently have 310.
  
  The online gameplay is great too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tsunami_pt
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 8, 2008 4:06 pm PT
Review:  Why was I a PES fan, one would ask? 
  
  Simple, because it was the closest you could get to football in a videogame. Since the first games 
 on the original Playstation, I've been a fan. Not convinced by the huge amount of licences of Fifa 
 (every once and again I played Fifa, just to fall more in love with PES) , I always looked at PES 
 as a very realistic, with the best gameplay, a non-arcade game. The ultimate football simulation.
 
  
  But, last year, I had one of the biggest disappointments in my gaming life in the last years. I 
 bought PES 6 for the Xbox 360, convinced that I was gonna have the time of my life with one of 
 my favourite games on the new generation of consoles! And what a disappointment that was... (read 
 my review on it to know more) . But still I had hope that on second try Konami would get it right.
 
  
  Until 2 months ago, both Fifa 2008 and PES 2008 demos were downloadable on Live. After playing 
 them both for a while, I was amazed by Fifa, so I've bought it this time, abandoning PES for the 
 time being. And why?
  
  Well, first of all, the new PES is VERY arcade. The game is fast as if players are on roller skates. 
 It just feels unreal to me. Also, the graphics engine is weak (exception to the faces) and it just 
 feels like the PS2 game on Hi res. So, PES is, for the second year in a row, a MASSIVE disappointment. 
 You need a major revamp on the game, mr. Seabass...
  
  And Fifa 2008? Fifa just feels... right. The graphic engine is clearly better then PES. Also the 
 gameplay tries to emulate the one from previous years PES, which is a major breakthrough on the 
 game. The game doesn't feel arcade and unreal no more, and playing it is the closest you can get 
 to football on a console now. But be warned, the game is slow-paced, hard as hell, much as IRL 
 football. It's not a pretty game, but the real game. Most games don't have many goals in the final 
 score. And I like it that way.
  
  Plus, the licences just add more credibility to the game. PES never had many licences and it was 
 (was) still the best game, but this now Fifa is the best AND has the licences of hundreds of clubs, 
 competitions and players. IMO it just lacks the leagues from Russia, Argentina, Romania and a few 
 more to be perfect.
  
  Plus, it has the "Be a pro" option. On this kind of play, you are just one player on the field 
 and, with a dynamic camera, you play your little part on the team, as real football.
  
  So, if, like me, you appreciate the true simulation of football, Fifa 2008 is a must have. I know 
 it feels strange to "betray" PES, but Konami, should and could have done it so much better... EA 
 Sports, congratulations on a great game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BarNone101
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 21, 2007 10:38 pm PT
Review:  Whenever someone would mention the term good soccer sim the majority of fans of the genre would 
 point their fingers proudly to the title of Winning Eleven Pro Evolution Soccer. Today its all 
 about FIFA 08, this game literally takes the essence of being a footballer from the pitch to your 
 next gen console. 
  The realism in FIFA 08 is uncanny, with ball physics that rival real life physics. The graphics 
 for this game are pretty sharp and the likenesses of most of the players is spot on, thats pretty 
 impressive given that there are over 1500 actual players re-created in the game.
  After all is said and done the real aspect that takes FIFA 08 to the next level is the innovative 
 Be a Pro online mode which allows you to take control of a single player on the field or be able 
 to cycle through the players with an innovative 360 degree camera angle that makes you feel like 
 your actually apart of the action. This mode is also just plain fun as you will find yourself eager 
 to show everyone just how dominant you are with a ball and Cristiano Ronaldo. There are also a ton 
 of other modes in this game such as tournament, manager, challenge mode etc. 
  The main complaint about the game is its difficulty. If you're not a fan of the beautiful game, 
 then this might not be an easy transition for you if this the tool you use to gain more knowledge 
 about soccer. The player is actually required to have some soccer knowledge if he/she plans to 
 even score a goal, which is good but for the players who are just starting or challenging someone 
 who owns the game already and has never played before might not have such a pleasant experience.
 
  This is by far the best soccer sim our to date bar none, and also contends for best all around 
 sports game in my opinion. There is so much to do in FIFA 08; it should have your 360 or PS3 occupied 
 for quite some time 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KrAzY_Croat
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 21, 2007 12:19 pm PT
Review:  It's been a while since I've been truly impressed by a FIFA game wheeling out of EA's labs. Pro 
 Evolution Soccer (or PES) has been the champ of this sport for many years. The game playing is 
 slow, so it becomes a very technical game where you must think before making plays, and is less 
 upon impulses. It appears EA, has finally picked up on Pro Evolution's successful game plan. 
 
  The gameplay speed has been effectively cut in half, greatly increasing realism as well as A. I. 
 difficulty. The technicalities, from players movements, to the curve of the ball as you nail are 
 masterfully done. The deking system has also been improved, as with the right stick you can effectively 
 make a fool out of your rival teams. It not only provides a great advantage, but also fool and 
 feels fantastic. Also new to the series is the "Be A Pro" mode, which allows you to master a single 
 position,
  The graphics of the players look incredible, if somewhat plastic-like up close. The commentating 
 has also been vastly improved, and no longer urges you to bash your skull in. Possibly the best 
 of all is the atmosphere, as it makes you feel like your in the stadium. 
  Possibly the only fault is that the commentating, and the gameplay itself receives bugs, and also, 
 doesn't have quite the number of teams you could hope for.
  Electronic Arts, with some experiencing has designed a great game of football, and with the excellence 
 of FIFA 08, EA can now build on this great game for future successes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CS2J
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 21, 2007 9:38 am PT
Review:  This is one of my favourite games at this moment in time, the gameplay is great, the graphics are 
 superb, it has everything going for it now that it is on next gen consoles.
  
  Difficulty in:
  - Ameture
  Easy once used to controld
  
  - Semi Pro
  Easy once used to 
 it
  
  - Professional
  Very hard, is like going from ameture to world class on FIFA 07
  
  - World Class
  Haven't tried yet
  
  - Legendary
  Very, very hard, I couldn't win at 
 all
  
  If you are a fan of football or just football games then this is one for you, the best yet in FIFA 
 series.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Mad_Hatter
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 20, 2007 9:15 pm PT
Review:  ok, i hated Fifa 06, i didn't get the 07, but i gave it a chance this year, so i have played for 
 hours now, to give an honest review.
  
  the game is good, but it has lost what make it FIFA by EA, i remember an old version i think it 
 was 99, you could do the same trick but in an easier way it depend on the player you were using.
 
  
  the 04 version had killer free kick, it was good, you could tie or win a game if you get the hang 
 of it. the corner kicks where nice you could chose receiver and think what to do, you could see 
 your players.
  
  Now the Fifa has change a lot, my friends say that Pro Evolution Soccer is better, more realistic, 
 but Fifa was great, it was nice and smooth, a different soccer game, now every year it look more 
 and more like a a clon of Pro Evolution Soccer.
  
  yes, the models are great, the creation system is great, the menus are easy, the difficulty is 
 hard in pro, but is good challenge. the game is solid, but i think some features should be bring 
 back.
  
  you can use many teams, use ability points to make them better, make nice plays using the combinations, 
 but it still feels like a clon, i think EA should try to make FIFA a different game, not just a 
 pro evo wanna be. if it continues like this you should probably get Pro Evo instead of any Fifa 
 in the years to come 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Aleperez75
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 26, 2007 12:24 pm PT
Review:  Fifa08 is an amazing game in many different ways. It has very nice movements, it moves smooth and 
 makes you feel you are watching a real game. 
  
  I've been playing Fifa since 1999 and never missed any edition of it. In all of them I was able 
 to play the world class level in no time. But in this edition it has been incredibly hard to master 
 the professional level. It looks so different from all the previous. It is a lot slower and a lot 
 harder. This can be discouraging at first, but one you appreciate it, it adds to the reality of 
 the game. It makes you really think what you need to do, to make more passes, to really appreciate 
 and not let pass the opportunities that you have to score.
  
  One new feature really hit the ball out of the park. It is the option to play in a single position. 
 In this game mode you have control of just one player. Makes you feel like a real football player 
 in a professional team. You need to decide your position in the field, look for the open space, 
 ask for the ball, do your ability moves to pass the defender, and if you have the opportunity score 
 or make a pass that will help to improve the offence of your team. In this game mode you need to 
 depend and play for the team. Very nice feature. 
  
  The bad is that sometimes, not too often, with no apparent reason you pass in a direction and the 
 ball goes to a different player in another direction. Sometimes when you pass the player that is 
 going to receive the ball stays still waiting for the ball while you see a defender just picking 
 up the ball with no trouble at all. This makes you really think where you want to pass it since 
 you can kind of predict what player is ready to receive the ball. It could be good but it is just 
 that sometimes some players look very dumb waiting for the ball and not moving at all.
  
  In general, the game is very good. There are some AI that can be improve but is a very fun and 
 addictive game when you add all the pros and cons. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: luis0910
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 18, 2007 5:16 pm PT
Review:  this year players look awesome!
  gameplay has been greatly improved!
  so many teams! wonderful!
  
  if ea sports works well...
  fifa 09 will be a classic!
  
 
  the tricks are a great adittion to the game
  it makes it soo cool.. just like in the real world
  
  playing with great players like .. uhmm..
 
  cristiano ronaldoo is a great joy!
  you can do several things and i assure you
  you will have a lot of fun....
  
  kudos to ea sports for making a truly fun game!
  
  oohh 
 a almost miss it!
  te be apro mode is wonderful!
  you reaaly feel youre your favorite
  superstar in the ptch!!
  helll yeah!!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: drpepper21
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 18, 2007 12:32 pm PT
Review:  Fifa 08 suffers from two major problems: passing and tackling. The tackling in this game is borderline 
 impossible at times. The man-marking itself is pretty bad sometimes, too. But the worst part is 
 that, though I struggled to just make a single tackle, the opposing team is able to tackle with 
 ridiculous ease. Their man-marking is perfect, and my players almost never got into space. Part 
 of the problem is that my team's a. i. is not very good when it comes to attacking. The runs they 
 make are poor, and sometimes they will even run straight into me when I possess the ball. Passing 
 is very bad, do to the previously stated facts that my opponents are defensive geniouses and my 
 players can not get into any space. Even with passing assists at full, my player will still send 
 the ball directly to the opposing defender. When your opponents do not even need to move to intercept 
 a pass, something is wrong. Shooting is good, but I wished that you could have scored easier when 
 shooting from long range. I really think that headers could have been better. I rarely ever win 
 an aerial challenge, and when I do, the ball always goes off target. A lot of times my players 
 would not even jump up to challenge for the ball. I think keepers could have been easier to score 
 against. They will continously save shot after shot, and with it being so hard to beat the opposing 
 defenders and get the space for a shot, I thought that they could be more forgiving. Referees are 
 somewhat biased, as they will call fouls against you when you have barely even touched the other 
 player. However, they do not do this too often, but enough so that you will notice it. In Fifa 
 07, when your player possessed the ball, the marker over him would light up. This in gone from 
 this year's version, and it really angered me. Something like that would have been incredibly valuable 
 in the crowded areas of the pitch. The scheduling in manager mode is a joke. The game will constantly 
 schedule matches IN THE SAME DAY. Not only that, but in the ECC and EFA, the game will put two 
 of the same teams in the tournament. So there might be two AC Milans, two Barcelonas, or two Liverpools. 
 They also have this player rating system where they rank the players in your league based on performance. 
 Here is the problem: if a player plays only one game all season and gets a high rating, then that 
 player will be considered the best player of the season, even though he only played once. Goalkeeper 
 ratings are just strange, because my keeper will have thirty cleansheets, concede only fifteen 
 goals in the league, save eighty percent of the shots fired at him, and be rated the worst keeper 
 in the league. The same goes for defenders. My defenders, for some reason, never recieved higher 
 than a seven rating all season long. 
  There is a lot of good things, though. Player move remarkably realisticly. The difficulty has increased 
 from last season, which is nice since Fifa 07 was very easy. You can also access tons of stats 
 and articles when your connected to Xbox Live. I did not spend a lot of time on Be a Pro mode, 
 but I found it pretty enjoyable. Fifa 08 is a good game, but falls short in the gameplay department. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joshualbh105
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 18, 2007 2:38 am PT
Review:  For a while, I always thought Konami's winning eleven games are more realistic than EA's Fifa. 
 However, this FIFA 08 proves me wrong for the first time. There is much more substance in this 
 FIFA compared to all the other FIFAs EA has produced.
  
  Assuming you get the hang of the controls well, you will certainly enjoy controlling players such 
 as Cristiano Ronaldo, Kaka, Wayne Rooney as you can try and perform their trademark tricks. Examples 
 include Ronaldo's dribbling skills... Everyone knows how evil Cristiano can be for opposing teams 
 who play against MU.
  
  The BE A PRO feature is fantastic! This is the first soccer game, (apart from FIFA MANAGER) , in 
 which i can only control a single player and try and master that position in order to spark up 
 my team's peformance. Which means, assuming i choose MU, my favorite team and i select Ronaldo, 
 i can only control Ronaldo while the other 10 MU players will be controlled by the CPU and you 
 try and blend in with them to score goals or to assit. Much like real football as one superb move 
 from you may win the game.
  
  CPU players are more challenging as well. They 'think' better, move better and react faster compared 
 to other FIFAs which the CPU is more like an idoit running around sometimes for no reason and you 
 will get players like John Terry giving the ball EASILY which dosen't happen often in real football. 
 FIFA 08 changes that and if you can win a game against the 5 star teams on WORLD CLASS MODES, then 
 you're damn good.
  
  This game in my opinion, will give Konami a hard fight. Remember, even if Konami can match FIFA 
 08, they will not likely have all the licences to include leagues like the Premier League or other 
 leagues. So unless that changes, FIFA is going to have that advantage.
  
  Once again, reporting the final score from my xbox 360, FIFA 08 1-KONAMI 0
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: 1Furious1
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 17, 2007 4:52 pm PT
Review:  I have to say that I have been mostly playing the PES series up until this year. Fifa 08 made me 
 make a switch to the EA's product. This game has made a big improvement over what's been put on 
 the market by EA in previous years. The major thing that FIFA has done right this year is gameplay. 
 It's becoming a lot more mature and fun and hopefully it will continue moving in the right direction 
 with the coming years. I cannot say that it's 100% satisfying but it's a heck of a lot better than 
 previous games and beats this years PES, though I would say that I like PES5 best of all, but FIFA 
 has better presentation and that's why I think that it is the best football game to date. Multiplayer 
 options are also great and have a "be-a-pro" mode is a nice addition to the series. Let's hope 
 that FIFA keeps on improving the gameplay for next year and adds the option of playing the whole 
 season in a "be-a-pro" mode. Also more real stadiums would be nice. Other than that this game is 
 as good as it gets. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JASONNoonan
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 15, 2007 1:51 pm PT
Review:  When i baught this game i never thaught I would be as addicted to it as i am now.
  First off the game play is very different from last year even on novice it proves a challenge. 
 defending actualy requires timing and attacking takes a bit of skill and patience for the right 
 timing. 
  Now the main selling points: there are alot of teams in this one all the main leagues plus some 
 others have been put in.
  Be a pro mode offline training and Be a pro mode online 5v5 are amazing new games to play.
  the 
 sheer amount of game modes to be played is quiet overwhelming but yet nice for playing yourself 
 and with mates.
  the online games r very smooth and also with the 5v5 in be a pro just incase u thaught 10 people 
 would make it a bit choppy but its suprisingly smooth.
  all this said and i havnt even rememberd about the graphics, they are sweet especialy in the replay 
 mode with free camera u can actualy look at the players face and recognise who they are (even cantona) .
 
  
  all in this game has definently hit a new high and is going in the right direction i dont have 
 one complaint this year they have created the perfect football game for me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Calmed_Fury
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 22, 2008 8:18 am PT
Review:  Let's first begin with Fifa 07. I loved that game. But after playing Fifa 08, Fifa 07 seems rather 
 bland. Fifa 08 has more leagues to play with instead of just the most popular ones. It has better 
 multiplayer with 5v5 action. Be a Pro mode really gets you in the game and on the pitch. The achievements 
 for it are also much better in that you have to actually play with multiple leagues and beat many 
 challanges to unlock them all. It is deffinately a much more difficult game than Fifa 07 because 
 of the Versatility of the AI. When they take the ball from you they actually try passing it around 
 and looking for a cross before attempting to strike. It can be somewhat frustrating at first but 
 it really brings the scores to a more realistic 2-1 than a final score of 8-0. Fifa 08 is a great 
 step forward for the franchise on the Xbox 360. Hopefully EA will continue this trend and get some 
 11v11 online play next year... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PerilousWolf
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 14, 2007 5:06 pm PT
Review:  In this latest installment of FIFA, you will find more features then ever before with the new be 
 a pro mode (which isn't half bad in my opinion) and cup creator
  
  There are the old game modes like Manager mode which I wasnt too impressed with. Its clunky and 
 sort of unrewarding, I'll stick to FM 08 for my managing. Apart from that not a lot wrong. Great 
 graphics, alot better than I expected and ALOT better than PES 2008. Sound is good, You either 
 like the soundtrack or hate (I hate it) Commentary is sort of the same with occasion bugs (eg. 
 If you kick a shot miles wide, Clive will say 'Ooh what a save!')
  
  Online is awesome! Lots of time and fun to be had as long as you don't get the people who only 
 play as Barcelona. And I also like the ESPN ticker that gives real time football news. The difficulty 
 of offline play has also improved as getting those 6-0 every game on world class are near impossible 
 now which is great as it gives the games some more challenge, something that I though was lacking 
 in the past couple of games.
  
  In conclusion
  
  If you want a football game, look no further
  FiFA 08 is it.
  
  Graphics: 8.5
  Sound: 8
 
  Gameplay: 8
  Longetivity: 8
  
  Overall: 8 
::::::

::::::
UserName: unbad
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 13, 2007 1:28 pm PT
Review:  gameplay above all make is a worth while buy. If YOu love soccer and are looking its the only one 
 out there and thankfully makes good on its priority. the game play is great, but has a few bugs 
 that only pop up every parry or so. but the tight passing and player controls keep you rolling. 
 it just plain looks amazing. no goal is quite the same and ball in the air never seem to be so 
 unpredictable. almost like play outside.... almost. If you've never played a soccer game this might 
 just be your time, if you not play halo or whatever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mjbcfc
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 12, 2007 12:24 pm PT
Review:  Be a Pro offline training is the greatest concept in the whole damn world!!!! However its a concept 
 that has been implemented in the wrong game. Put this in PES 08 and it would reach its true potential.
 
  
  Basically take out be a pro from Fifa and its absolutely terrible, the gameplay is so damn frustrating, 
 through balls nearly never come off and the whole game seems too slow (not laggy or low framerate, 
 just players run slow) .
  
  I've been wanting this be a pro type thing in a football game for years now and EA have delivered. 
 However since it's offline training only its a huge let down after a while. 5v5 online is now apparently 
 available but i've now sold my fifa so will never find out what thats like, sounds awesome.
  
  Hopefully PES will do this next year or EA will get fifa's gameplay right for a change next 
 year, then hopefully you can do a career as just your own created dude, that would be the greatest 
 thing in the world lol.
  
  Be a Pro: 10/10
  
  Everything Else in Game: 2/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dmweekes
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 12, 2007 12:00 pm PT
Review:  All things considered you would have to say that a month of play out of a game is very good value 
 for money, and it is not to say that Fifa is bad it is just once again outclassed by PES. Everything 
 about this game is incredible apart from the shooting mechanics which are once again COMPLETELY 
 BROKEN!!!... It shouldn't be a difficult thing to shoot across the goal from one side to the other, 
 it happens constantly in real football but FIFA for some reason doesn't want you to do it and insists 
 you try and pip it in at the near post everytime you burst into the box. This is frustrating to 
 say the least and the ONLY reason why PES ( with its broken online play and easy to beat AI) wins 
 again this year. I know it is harsh to trash a game that is by all accounts as graceful as Ronaldinho 
 until you get within shooting distance and it all goes a bit Emile Heskey on you, but shooting 
 mechanics are such an important part of a football game that it is unforgiveable when it is done 
 wrong. This is why people keep going back to PES it is because when you score a wonder goal on 
 PES you actually feel like you were in control of it, very little is lost between the intention 
 and the execution. This is where FIFA falls, and it is at the same hurdle every year. I give them 
 credit for everything else they've acheived. The game is smooth, slick and very polished graphically 
 but is about as profficient in front of goal as a one legged Gary Neville. So I would have to recommend 
 PES, not by much, but whats the point in playing if you don't feel in control? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mike10s
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 8, 2007 8:11 pm PT
Review:  overall i love the fifa franchise and was totally excited for fifa 08. i love the newly improve 
 gameplay, the graphics, the sounds and especially how u get to play as ur favorite players like 
 ronaldinho or beckham or henry. i like how they brought back the mls and some new leagues aswell. 
 one thing i hav only seen in fifa 04 which i hav dearly missed in 05,06,07, and 08 was the ability 
 to put curve on ur dead ball freekicks to make them curl. i really loved that feature and i hope 
 that fifa will maybe put that option in the game for next year. overall though i think fifa 08 
 is amazing all-around and i cant wait for the years to come 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ukillwegrill
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 8, 2007 5:29 am PT
Review:  First of all i HATE EA it takes good games ahurns out new ones each year.
  
  But this year EA have done somthing, i dont know what but somehow they have broke their curse and 
 have created possible THE finest football game since PES3 it captures all the magic from the beautiful 
 game and all the Glitz and Glammer into one pakage it has the best graphics on a football game 
 as u would expect but also has very tight highly tuned gameplay it eliminated the scripted feel 
 of previous installments and ultimately restores my confidence in mankind the games industry and 
 most of all EA 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IrishCyanide
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 4, 2007 11:11 pm PT
Review:  If you've played past Fifa games, then you'll definetly like this one. The graphics are great, 
 features are awesome... HOWEVER, it feels like Fifa 06 gameplay wise. The movements aren't as smooth 
 as '07, the animations seem a little rougher.
  
  All in all, the online aspects are a lot of fun and really, I don't see why people have such an 
 issue with EA. They strive to make it better every year. Not too many other companies can do it 
 better.
  
  Another issue I had was the new special movements integrated into the game. They don't seem to 
 have much of an advantage other than looking cool. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: motownboy
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 4, 2007 10:49 pm PT
Review:  I have to confess to taking a year off from soccer games, so I'm not a hardcore soccer game player 
 in that respect, however, I have a good amount of experience with the series, so I figure I can 
 offer a few insights.
  
  Firstly, this one plays more like a simulation than the others before it, especially if you're 
 not on amateur. Even amateur can sometimes be hard to score on (although with me that seems to 
 depend on the goalkeeper I face) . However, the physics is very good, the players move realistically, 
 and it sometimes takes some strategy to really succeed. I was definitely the kind of player who 
 liked to focus on defense and then counter-attack up the wings before sending it to my target forward, 
 who would head it in. However, with the more difficult heading, that isn't the easy way anymore, 
 so I've been forced to broaden my offensive attack schemes.
  This game still feels arcade-like at times, but it's a very good simulation game that is quite 
 realistic. The player animations look great as well, and the sound is very good.
  
  The best part of the game though is probably the announcing. Although parts of it can be repetitive 
 if you're always the same team (as Chelsea, everytime Wright-Phillips gets the ball the announcer 
 reminds you that he's a 'bundle of energy') , I can't count the number of times people have thought 
 that I was watching a real game, particularly when the announcers discuss things that focus on 
 the team specifically.
  
  The worst part is the rip-off from Be-A-Pro Mode. The mode itself is amazing and a very good start. 
 However, it's simply a quickplay kind of mode. You can create a player, but there's no way to improve 
 him over the course of a season, or anything like that. It feels like EA was lying about how deep 
 that mode would be. However, if they have a kind of career mode next year, this mode has staying 
 power. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ahmedaltoqi
Rating: 1
Date: Nov 4, 2007 12:54 pm PT
Review:  i played the game and at first the graphics was great and the players movements was nice as well 
 i said to my self at last fifa did it this time and knocked pes for good but after playing 3 matches 
 only heres what i found scoreing from outside the box is very hard and the goalkeepers is like 
 a huge monster whos covering the whole goal its very hard to score till you lose joy of this game 
 its very dispointing its hard to pass and even more hard to shoot its the same old story with fifa 
 this is it for me with fifa this was my last chance for fifa and they failed me so that it with 
 fifa am never going to let pes out of my sight agin :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cnesbitt1811
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 2, 2007 11:41 am PT
Review:  FIFA 08 is the next edition of the a great line of FIFA games but whats new. FIFA 08 has a brand 
 new database of thousands of players and brand new leagues and teams. not to mention all squads 
 are updated to the full. the introduction of BE A PRO mode has given a whole new way to play the 
 game. controlling only one star at a time you gat as close as you ccan of being a pro. timing runs, 
 shots and passes. it trulely is a new way to play.
  online is great providing you have a good contection other wise don't bother cause it ruins the 
 experience of the online modes.
  
  FIFA truely is a game to buy if you don't have it buy it now or if your cheap or skint get it in 
 thechristmas sales thanks for reading and good luck gaming/
  
  cnesbitt 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gbird991
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 1, 2007 12:56 pm PT
Review:  FIFA 08 seems to represent the classic videogame mistake. Its not a bad game by any stretch of 
 the imagination and will likely satisfy football diehards a bit more than past entries in the series, 
 but one cant help but wonder just how good the whole package could have been if EA Sports had 
 just held the game back until the online Be a Pro Mode was finished. As it stands the mode will 
 get no attention, and likely wont be as large a part of the game experience as it should have 
 been. Check back next season when the feature set to FIFA is finally complete and the gameplay 
 has been tuned a bit more, until then the game will be known as good rather than great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xxdp88xx
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 31, 2007 7:12 am PT
Review:  fifa 08 is a very enjoyable game to play but there is many bugs in the game. like the goalkeeper 
 they need to make an update to stop him waloking away from the ball some times and the fouls ar 
 wrong sometimes too. but this is all because t was released too early they could have done better 
 but i think they bought it our earle to try and beat pes2008. but at the end of the day ts still 
 a xery good game and it has many defferent modes to play on and you shouldnt get bored of it for 
 a while. and the tricks and skils is another good thing too once you master some of them they come 
 in very useful. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cprodo
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 27, 2007 12:22 pm PT
Review:  It is a great game, witha nice gameplay a some new features, I like that it has now the most important 
 leagues in the world (no like 07 that didnt even have the MLS) and the list of all playesrs, playing 
 its hard, or maybe its real, I mean on those other versions of fifa, you could score even to 10 
 goals on any other team in pro difficult level, now in this version you can even lose against a 
 team like Derby that in the paper is not so great, so that makes it real, de AI is great, now defenders 
 folow the screen plays and not just stand there like before.
  The online game I have been having problems, I mean every time I want to play it ask me to upgrade 
 the players squad, which is very anoying, I even wrote to EA customer service but they said that 
 was ok and it suppose to happen but when talking to players on line they told me that you are only 
 to upgrade once untill there is a new upgrade available, so that is the only problem that I have 
 with the game, I will try to fix it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DingDongChavez
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 26, 2007 6:19 pm PT
Review:  Previous FIFA games have always been full of the usual liscensed teams and leagues but they have 
 always lacked the cutting edge gameplay required to make it the ultimate football game. Its main 
 rival, Pro Evolution Soccer has always had the edge in this department but since the release of 
 the next gen consoles it seems EA is making serious strides to obtaining the crown of virtual football 
 king. This years FIFA is by far the best FIFA game yet. With the usual vast array of liscensed 
 teams and players is some solid gameplay that whilst challenging is fun, realistic and ultimatley 
 rewarding.
  
  To start with, player animations are superb. As a matter of fact, the ball animations are also 
 excellent and everything within the game moves realistically and as it would do in real life. The 
 graphics are brilliant and the ball looks incredible as it glides through the air. Shooting has 
 been redefined so that there is a realistic finish depending on the situation your striker is in. 
 The through ball is no longer so easy to use and just like real football its all about playing 
 the pass at the right time. Attacks have to be made by spreading the ball out wide and central 
 attacks can only be attempted by the Arsenals and Barcelonas. The pace of the game compliments 
 this well. Compared to other football games this is very slow and this is a good move. Real football 
 isnt as fast as some games make it out to be and FIFA 08 has a good tempo to it. Last years FIFA 
 lacked any form of skill manoveurs. This years installment has addressed this problem and done 
 a good job with it. Skill, like it should be, is hard to pull off correctly. It can however be 
 used to devastating effect.
  There is a good balance with the skill and the difficulty is just right. Its easy to pull off flip 
 flaps and step overs in the arena, but in the pressure of the match its harder and this is realistic. 
 Single player modes are the same as ever. A pretty basic manager mode and standard league modes. 
 Its no Football Manager but its decent enough. There is also a new Be a Pro mode where you take 
 control of one player in a team. This is fun, challenging and rewarding at first and while the 
 games Challenges add some depth there isnt really enough i to keep you using this mode. Online 
 is where this game shines however, and this is due to the wide variety of teams. While the usual 
 fools and glory hunters go with Barcelona, Man Utd etc FIFA 08 offers fans a chance to wave their 
 clubs flags. I am a Fulham fan and its brilliant being able to take my team online and challenge 
 the world. Im also a follower of Plymouth Argyle and I have had some excellent games against the 
 Barcelonas and the Man Uniteds with them. As for online features there is a new interactive league 
 system where you can represent your club in an overall league table. These leagues however are 
 confusing and its hard to actually get a game (lets say your a Derby fan and you are playing Wigan 
 that week, there are not many people who are going to be searching for this type of game) . In fact, 
 not being able to get a game online is the main problem with FIFA 08. Myself and many users seem 
 to have problems connecting to around 80% of other players. Also, the game seems to lose connection 
 alot. There is also a strange glitch where if you have any other player than Ronaldhino in your 
 arena you have to download a squad update everytime you join an online game (which makes many impatient 
 gamers leave) .
  
  Overall though FIFA 08 delivers a quality football experience. The gameplay animations are superb, 
 ball physics are excellent, shooting is realistic and the overall game is challenging and rewarding 
 like real football. Dont be put off by the initial difficulty as it does take awhile to get to 
 grips with the game but any football fan who watches football matches will know how to play the 
 beautiful game. Apply real life strategies to FIFA and the goals will come. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ibboinvader
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 26, 2007 10:40 am PT
Review:  There is a major war going between fifa 08 and pro evo 2008. Lets just get one thing clear, fifa 
 08 rules 
  
  Fifa 08 beats it on everything, graphics, sound the gameplay is a lot more realistic. Pro evo is 
 too fast and makes too unrealistic. Konami........ pro evo is a rushed game, or it seems that way 
 anyway. Fifa 08's new be a pro mode is brilliant and will keep you going on for a long time to 
 come. The online play is stunning with its online interactive leagues and leagues that you create 
 yourself and if you just want to get into a quick game........ no problem and there is no lag compared 
 to 2006 fifa world cup which to be honest was crap. Last year it was Konami who were champs........ but 
 this year, fifa 08 will rule!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
  
  Nice one EA sports you have created the perfect football sim!!
  
  Nice one! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aduana69
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 26, 2007 9:17 am PT
Review:  Fifa has been the one football game that has had the winning formula for a successful football 
 game ever since it first came out. It combined licensced players, stadiums and teams with good 
 graphics and good gameplay. This combination ultimately put Fifa on top every time, until now. 
 For some unknown reason, fifa has had a problem with its transfer to the next gen consoles. First 
 of all there was fifa: road to the world cup which some say was disastrous. Then ofcourse there 
 was fifa world cup 2006 which was a mild improvement but still needed improvement. Like many others 
 i blindly bought the next installment fifa 07, which i was later to discover, was a huge mistake. 
 As i turned on the game i suddenly realised what i had done. In Fifa 07, you can only be the teams 
 that are in the premier league, german budesliga, the spanish primera and Serie A. You can ofcourse 
 be national teams aswell. This i think was a major disapointment. In my view, they have taken a 
 good few steps back with that move. You can't even play as Celtic who are a big team. Anyway, i 
 soon began a season mode with my favourite team Manchester United. I discovered that you can only 
 have a five year career. For me that would only be long enough to win a few trophies and to only 
 just create the team that i would be happy with. It is not long enough at all. Fifa 06 on the PS2 
 had a 15 yr career. here are more steps back. finally, i got into a game and the controls were 
 awkward and strange, especially the tackling. The tackling system seemed to have a major glitch 
 and sometimes the players would collide and just stand there for 10 seconds, leaving the ball rolling 
 forwards, sometimes to be intercepted. Overall, Fifa 07 is not an impressive game and the game 
 designers will really have to buck up their idea's or otherwise many Fifa fans like me will end 
 up having to turn to other football games like Pro Evo! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Staind963
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 25, 2007 8:25 pm PT
Review:  everything is good about this game, EXCEPT
  
  GOALIES: Goalies are dumb in the game. Petr Cech is rated 89, and plays like a 2.
  
  AI: Sometimes 
 AI will run into each other.
  
  I wish i was more concrete, but i can't right now because it's late.
  
  . . . . . . . . . . 
 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: laxxino
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 25, 2007 4:12 pm PT
Review:  The soccer was used to be called Pro Evolution, or Winning Eleven. It's been like that for the 
 last, long, 15 years almost.
  Surprisingly now it's changed. THE soccer simulation is now called FIFA 08.
  
  What's new in 
 f08, les start from beginning.
  The most difficult thing to create, when programming a soccer game, is the physics. Ball physics, 
 players physics, collitions and reaction to collitions, from players and from the ball.
  On fifa08, u will just experience the most realistic physics ever presented in a game, forget everything 
 else, fifa08 IS THE SOCCER SIMULATION.
  The ball pong, fly, hit, in an amazing realistic way, creating an almost infinite game situations. 
 Physics is a lot, but there are many other parameters that make a game changing from a good game 
 to a milestone.
  Graphics: the graphics is just awesome, with thousands of fluid and hyper realistic animation for 
 the players, the stadiums are perfect and the greens are insipiring soccer from every centimeter.
 
  Sound: the sound is very good, commentary is not perfect still (but no game yet have a perfect 
 commentary) , the musics are thousands of very famous songs, the stadium fx are directly took from 
 real matches and create the perfect atmosphere.
  Gameplay: here is where fifa08 estabilish his throne of BEST SOCCER GAME EVER. Matches are finally 
 realistic, it really seems to play soccer. Not anymore a squad of supermen that does magics with 
 the ball.
  In fifa08 u have THOUSAND trick-dribbling, implemented with the most realistic and genial control 
 mode. Basicly we have a full control of the player's feet, combining those movement u will create 
 a trick. There are almost inifinite comboes on trick, the only limit is your fantasy and your skill.
 
  I could add another 4000 characters to this review, but would be never enough to explain the magnificents 
 of this game.
  
  BYE BYE PRO EVOLUTION, WELLCOME FIFA! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: willykpo
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 25, 2007 2:14 pm PT
Review:  fifa 08, excellent game and are dangerously addictive has many improvements as far as its gameplay 
 that nevertheless was good in fifa 07.
  it is a madness but he is addictive 30 leagues and but of 30000 players in I title so limited that 
 the last year was for 360.
  the truth I declare PESFAN and it seems false to me and all that but there is something aside from 
 the licensed teams and music and the so many equipment that pes 2007 never had, that is that thing 
 that makes you be too addictive, those parties never to forget. but that was the small thing that 
 needs fifa 08, started off with much pasion (i broken the pad in one loss) that those things that 
 make you feel as you were at least in the tribunes
  
  incredible job of EA congratulations 
::::::

::::::
UserName: YoungRome32
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 25, 2007 1:08 pm PT
Review:  this game is by far the best sports game and fifa as of today. the realism and gameplay are outstanding.
 
  
  The graphics are amazing and very realistic. the ball will never go through u and theres always 
 the beautiful weather atmosphere in an outdoor stadium.
  
  The AI is fantastic compared to last years, although many still believe that there is some problems.
 
  
  The teams are up to date with the new roster updates that come once in a while which is awesome.
 
  
  Also there is interactive and online leagues where u can play as your favorite team in super leagues 
 and see who really is the best.
  
  The only problem with this game is that at some points it can be too realistic. For example i was 
 playing and the linesmen called for offside but on the replay i was onside!
  
  overall i give this game a 9.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: loanduck
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 24, 2007 12:20 pm PT
Review:  FIFA 08 is an amazing game, We finally have all the leagues, teams, players and a FIFA game that 
 have it all
  
  One thing you need to do before starting to play this game is not bump up the difficulty from the 
 start. Most of us are World Class/ Legendary players from past FIFA's but this years game brings 
 a whole new challenge and it's fantastic. The single player manager mode will last all year it's 
 great.
  
  Graphics- EA always has the best in sports games
  
  Gameplay- Amazing, challenging gameplay makes the game fantastic and
  fustrating and that's a 
 good thing.
  
  Overall this game has everything you would want and have wanted in FIFA games. You won't be disspointed 
 buying this game if your a football/soccer
  fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dxfactorial
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 23, 2007 5:20 pm PT
Review:  In essence, FIFA 08 oozes class from the second you slot it into your console. Graphics: The graphics 
 are bar-none the best in any football game to date. Aesthetically, EA's FIFA 08 is right up there 
 with the best looking titles in the sports genre. It is truly a HD title in every sense of the 
 word. Player likenesses are very well done. Menu's are easy and accesible. Solid next gen GUI's 
 make the game look as detailed as any football manager games out there. EA was spot on in this 
 department. FIFA 08 is however sorely lacking in camera angles. There are a whopping 3 camera angles 
 in this game, none of which actually provides you with a realistic TV Broadcast experience. The 
 Broadcast cam which is my personal favorite is incospicuously absent, as the TELE cam is zoomed 
 too far from the action. This ruins an otherwise great game of sim-football.
  
  Gameplay: EA is finally making some major strides in the gameplay department. The game just feels 
 real now. Gone are the days when you could just waltz past the defence with Henry. In FIFA 08, 
 the game is paced and played like the real thing. Goals come by via patience, and superb knowledge 
 of in-game tactics. There is nothing as rewarding as seeing a well crafted goal after switching 
 from a 4-3-3 to a 4-4-2, and bringing on an Attacking midfielder for a a Wing forward. The game 
 rewards you for properly reading the style of your opponent and adapting on the fly. The Be-a- 
 pro mode is easily the highlight of the game. It is an ingenius look on gameplay, and opens up, 
 or at least teases on opening a portal of endless fun and addiction for the coming years; however 
 EA needs a law suit for false advertising, as it really isn't a feature in the game, merely a trial 
 version gameplay mode. Sound: As usual Andy Gray and co. are passable. Commentary gets repititive 
 after a short time, and is barely audible through crowd noise. This seems to be a problem for all 
 sports titles, the commentators voices are usually drowned by the crowd noise, and it painsme that 
 no reference has been made to this issue all these years. Gameplay modes: The Be a pro mode is 
 not a real feature as was initially advertised by EA. It is a trial. So be warned those who are 
 buying the game for Be-a-pro mode. The absence of key in-game features like camera angles is inexcusable. 
 I feel like EA intentionally did this. It is just plain inexcusable. The manager mode is still 
 largely the same, and teams work via chemistry and player moods. Still ok. Overall a great game 
 of football. Could definitely improve in coming years. I expect Konami's PES series to respond 
 adequately next year, otherwise FIFA is my new Title. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: uni-chrome
Rating: 4.5
Date: Oct 21, 2007 2:39 pm PT
Review:  First of all i got this game put it in really looking forward to the be a pro mode. I played what 
 looked to be the friendly offline content part and was enjoying it so i decided to create a player 
 and use it in the team and play in the be a pro league mode as advertised on the EA site quote:
 
  
  Be A Pro: Co-op Season
  
  Take on the role of a professional footballer, create your own player and test yourself in one 
 position for an entire season. Master positioning, improve your attributes and develop into an 
 elite player. Co-operate with up to three friends fixed to their player on the same team, but compete 
 with those same friends on individual challenges. All performances are tracked through detailed 
 statistics to determine who really is a pro. 
  
  Source:
  http://www. electronicarts. co. uk/games/11231/KeyFeatures/
  
  I couldn't find this so i changed 
 called a friend round to play withhim on this mode for a laugh. But then you are hit with the message 
 Be a pro mode is only for single play only which then completely blows the so called co-op mode 
 out the way.
  
  so we played a few games of the normal mode:
  
  yet again it plays in a slightly different way but soon feels the same as the past few series of 
 fifa, we soon became bored after 4 game or so.
  
  the passing system feels nicer and the players move around creating space helping you out more 
 which is quite needed when playing the computer as it near enough seems impossible to break down 
 the defence to get one-on-one with the keeper.
  
  creating yourself and adding you to your favorite team is always fun but there are a few elements 
 that will anoy you greatly such as:
  
  once you create your self you can get a rating of around 60-70 depending on positions and how well 
 you spread the points you get to improve your player. after unlocking some achievements on fifa 
 you can buy more points to upgrade your players you make in the creation center. i brought these 
 points and went to add them to my player to find out you can't actually do it without creating 
 another replica of yourself which wasted another good 15minutes.
  
  another anoying problem after spending all the upgraded points the player was now rated 74 which 
 i want to improve on even more so i thought i would start a manager mode season up to get better. 
 to find out that only default players can be used, what is the point of that it ruins an element 
 of fun from the game and means you can't upgrade your own players you make to match players like 
 rooney.
  
  once exiting the season mode you are then back to default teams so i try to load back up my own 
 players and found out it doesnt even load them properly meaning you have to restart the xbox and 
 wait for 2minutes for all of the pre video and still screen adverts to finish which was super fustrating 
 by now.
  
  the manager mode is the same as any other fifa game. there are yet again the impossible achievements 
 to unlock such as complete 15seasons... fifa 2012 will be out by then... or get 50 man of the matches 
 from a english midfielder, a french midfielder ect.
  
  overall not worth getting what so ever if you really want this game rent it. But it seems EA dont 
 want people doing that as blockbusters don't have rental copies of the game for some reason. The 
 game gets boring very quickly, the same old fustrating lack of freedom and the imposible chance 
 of beating a computer opponent 1-on-1 still remain 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gibson-les-rick
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 20, 2007 11:26 am PT
Review:  Fifa 08 is utterly amazing. It is a Graphical Masterpiece especially on HDTV. But it also looks Fabulous 
 on SDTV. First off, the Animation is superb I'm am not usalluy a fan of EA's games but by god they 
 hit the nail on the head with this one. They have created (which they also had last year) one of 
 the best loading screens ever! It is Utterly addictive. There is a new mode which is single player 
 only offline and it is online aswell but the offline one is just as good. It is when you control 
 just one player of your choice with any team this is so much better than it sounds honestly. This 
 is a football fans dream come true buy it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jaytus
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 20, 2007 2:30 am PT
Review:  Fifa 08 for Xbox 360 is great game for any football fan it is a must buy highly addictive game 
 you cant stop until you've done it all. It will keep you hooked for hours on end going through 
 and winning all the cups and completing and creating your own tournaments. Trying out all the different 
 players to finally create the best team. This game is truly great not to mention the best game 
 play graphics I have seen to date in the Fifa series and that is why I have awarded it a fantastic 
 score of 9.0. What a game. Well done to EA sports. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Azhar85
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 19, 2007 2:55 pm PT
Review:  To think the evolution in the gaming era nowdays produce such a great games like Fifa 08, that 
 makes me proud having one of the next gen consoles outhere. Firstly, this game graphic are great, 
 heavilly improved from other Fifa's series that we published by EA. Second, the gameplay is too 
 realistic, mean that the player run and passing the ball smoother than ever, shooting still very 
 accurately, goalkeeper not always catch the ball easier than the other Fifa series, and the best 
 thing it has many soccer league than the other Fifa series. In conclusion I'll suggest those who 
 enjoy soccers sport to buy this game and see for yourself if this game suitable for you or not. 
 For me in this new generation of gaming, i'll prefer Fifa more than Winning eleven and Pro evo 
 because of the realistic movement but not for the graphics. Then, it's your choice, buy or rent 
 it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ramos23
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 18, 2007 6:06 pm PT
Review:  FIFA 08 for PS3 is a great experience. The Gameplay is amazing especially for the first soccer 
 game for the PS3 and Wii. It has many new features, like Be A Pro: Offline Training, but alot of 
 the features that should have been inproved went away. For Example, the Practice Session was a 
 bit boring, but it didn't need to be taken away, just inproved, like adding music to practice of 
 even in games. I know i like to listen to some of the tracks avalible from EA, and also some of 
 my own. Also, It would have been cool to put the real drills some teams do, like sprints and practice 
 run up shots. All you do is what a normal game would do. Anyway, another thing they sould have 
 done is inproved the Challenge Mode. It's Just Cups and Tournements that you have to win. Boring! 
 But Anyway, other than that, the EA Sports have gave us a new generation of gaming for Soccer (or 
 Football) It is a great thing to get for any soccer fan! GBU! Ramos23 P. S Sorry for any misspelled 
 words! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: als_honda11
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 16, 2007 3:52 pm PT
Review:  in be a pro i want to see a season. when you play the coach decides everything like whose captain, 
 kick takers, subs, and positions on what you are good at in practice. Also scouts watch you and 
 decide if you are good enough to be on an international team. Make player competition on the same 
 team for different positions. As you get further in the season you should get rated and get different 
 traits. An example is if you dont have a lot of passes but a lot of shots you could be a ball hog 
 or a loner, or if you do a lot of moves and they actually work you could get a flair trait. Try 
 to make it as real as possible. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cocomacoco
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 16, 2007 4:39 am PT
Review:  After many dissapointments with EA Sports games alike, since FIFA 05 i haven't been able to play 
 a decent game of Football from this developer, i was all the way down to roots with PES series, 
 known as WE in Asia.
  
  Fifa 08 is a really guilty pleasure, after i found that this time they delivered a super simulation 
 of real life soccer, i believe after i've played it that this single time, [Konami is in trouble 
 (joking) ] this was the best choice available for me on the market.
  
  The game looks and sounds so real that it gaves me the creeps, and the players and their plays 
 are so real, that sometimes at first i was hypnotized and had to realize that i was playing a Video 
 Game.
  
  The features here are very tight, and the online even got its 2 new ones, where you can represent 
 your favorite team/club worldwide!
  
  The phisycs in this game are brain damaging; as the ball moves totally realistic, and the sensitive 
 to the every minor detail is present.
  
  Creating your character was never so much fun, as he really looks like Me!!!
  
  Dunno why they 
 said (Gamespot) that the game was slow-paced, its really fast!, and you can also think that running-sprinting 
 is not the best choice to scape like before, they brought back the fint moves and the first touch 
 they had on Fifa 05 with really next-gen- yours truly- visuals, and they have so many, i. e.:
  
  Heel to Heel
  
  Reverse Flip Flap
  
  Scoop Turn (standing Only)
  
  Up and over 
 Flick
  
  Juggling (Standing Only)
  
  and.... The best! the rainbow flick
  
  this moves above mention will be all about timing and fingered skills, besides you will depend 
 on your 5 stars team mates to make them work, so use them wisely.
  
  You can also do Combo-Fint moves holding down the Lt and performing the desired curve on the Right 
 Stick
  
  On your Management side of the game you will have plenty new tools to help you down and other old 
 ones that got upgraded, i really like the Team mentality tool, which gives your players the right 
 strategy to follow on the pitch.
  
  the good old updates and news are here, where you can get real rooster, real news and insider tips 
 on your favorite league/team.
  
  And there's a new pretty interesting game mode called: Be a Pro , with a all new gameplay, and 
 a all new Visual Camera like if you were actually on the filed , in this modality, you choose to 
 be the player you support the most and get ready to control him, and only Him, the only thing that 
 your teammates will do at discretion, is your commands, like , pass me the ball, shoot!, etc. This 
 means that you have to be a Team-Player and possition yourself accordingly to help your team to 
 eventually succed, which is a very realistic element, the real life players will never make it 
 without been Team players. Besides the importance of mastering your position you even choose how 
 much ground to cover, whether to only attack/deffend on be a key element on both (be a Hero) nevertheless 
 sometimes your mate will make the best decission to make, disregarding whatever button/order you 
 gave.
  
  The online Multiplayer supports 2-8 players.
  
  Graphically this game is awesome!, oh, my!, you can even see how the shadows on their clothes moves 
 as the walk.
  
  Replays are back, and the good thing is you can upload them for the world to see! as small clips 
 via Ea servers and Xbox Live.
  
  Whatever you say, i ain't getting any other football game this year, it will take a lot of hard 
 job from others to defeat this wonderful thing, that is FIFA 08. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Warthog259
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 15, 2007 5:20 pm PT
Review:  This game is great
  
  Gameplay= really great gameplay. When you score a goal u feel like screaming although it is much 
 better then the fifa 07. I dont know what people mean by sluggish AI I find the AI very hard to 
 beat. The best thing about the game is that when you have a better formation then someone and you 
 know how to use it very well you can beat any team
  
  Sound: Not something you would think about so much im not gonna say its the best but its good.
 
  
  Graphics= Graphics have improved. Now i remember in ffia 07 when u scored u felt like..... goal.... 
 thats a goal.... nothing big... here when u score it makes it look beautiful and it goes rite in 
 the net in fifa 07 it would slow down the ball fifa 08 it would it the net the amount of power 
 u hit it.
  
  Story= u make ur own pretty much 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GoldenSilence87
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 15, 2007 1:42 pm PT
Review:  If I was to be honest (And I will be) I would truthfully say that I looked forward to FIFA 08 moreso 
 than EA's Madden 08 and NCAA 08 counterparts. It looked to finally do the Beautiful Game justice: 
 superb passing, a fantastic physics engine, jaw dropping graphics and over 30 leagues and 45 international 
 sides. The inclusion of the 30 leagues is a welcome break from the five that were packaged with 
 FIFA 07. Its great to see MLS, the Scottish Premiere League, the four tiers of English football 
 and Portugal's Liga in addition to the stalwarts of the English Premiere League, Ligue 1 Orange, 
 La Liga, etc. Also included are a fully customisable Create a Tournament mode (So you can include 
 a UEFA Champions League and World Cup 2010 without having to spend an extra $120 on EA's seperate 
 franchises) and a simplified Tournament Mode (For those who cant wade through the menus) . The game 
 also includes most of the major stadiums in the world (Wembley, Parc de Princes, Nou Camp, Emirates 
 Stadium, Anfield etc) but has some startling oversights notably Celtic's home pitch of Hampden 
 Park and Brazil's home stadium the 200,000 seater. On the field, the game is great. I initially 
 had some problems with the game's default camera (Television) but once I switched it to Dynamic 
 the game became easier to control. Passing, like FIFA 07, is FIFA 08's forte and it does it well. 
 Through balls, once nearly indefensible in FIFA 07, can be daggers but they can also be routinely 
 cut out and cleared. Passing near the touchlines is easy and clean (In FIFA 07, the player you 
 controlled like a cement truck) and patientce around the penatly area is the name of the game. 
 Also reworked are crosses (FIFA 07 made the lofted cross obsolete with a driven cross that nearly 
 guranteed goals or corners) that make rising above the defenders fun and challenging. Free kicks 
 are easier to control and its much easier to add juice to the shot. I also love --perhaps an overstatement -- the 
 new physics engine. Players jostle for balls, balls skip and bounce and --FINALLY --- are entirely 
 seperate from the players they are controlled by. Slide tacking (even in multiplayer) is not an 
 automatic gurantee for a yellow card, and just like real life it can be used to break up a counter-attack. 
 Best of all, you can send shots low across the ground, or into the corner with minimal effort. 
 EA also kindly included a tricks system, and --another FINALLY -- feints on shots and passes. Yet 
 what makes FIFA 08 worth the price of admission alone is the inclusion of the Be A Pro Mode. EA's 
 Football and NBA franchises had already included SuperStar modes that entirely depended on the 
 patientce of the user. But FIFA 08 strips away --thankfully in my opinion -- the roleplaying and 
 character of these modes and simply puts you in the shoes of your favorite players. And the mode 
 works fantastic. You'll actually have to play soccer to win the game and the interface is fantastically 
 easy (Press A to call for the ball, Pess B to tell your teammate to shoot and Y to call for a through 
 ball) . Your teammates play great soccer, and you could drive your player into a corner and watch 
 the AI surge forward and fall back into defense. In my first game, I played as Landon Donovan for 
 the Stars and Stripes in a hard fought game against South Africa. In the 65th minute, I got a great 
 through ball, deked around two South African defenders, went around the goal keeper and crashed 
 the shot off the bar and into the net. It was one of those Hell yeah! moments. Every league and 
 team is availabe for play, and you can spend the next year with the matchups. My suggestion: Chelsea 
 versus Barcelona playing either as Drogba or Messi. You'll have fun just watching the player introductions...
 
  
  And EA also includes the standard modes: Manager mode is simple, and just as easy to access as 
 years past. With relegation and promotion it makes climbing up the ranks fun and worthwile. Create-A-Player 
 is a vast improvement over the terrible 07 mode, and as mentioned easier Create-A-Tournament has 
 tons of variety (Such as qualifying or group stage options) to make it a blast to run through (Euro 
 2008 here I come!) XBox Live is finally balanced (No more exploits using the right analog stick) 
 and every team is availabe. In the end, it's a great game and one that every soccer fan should 
 have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: finalcross
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 14, 2007 11:51 pm PT
Review:  Every year when October comes around, I get really anxious to play the latest Version of FIFA. 
 Since FIFA 2001, I have been enjoying the series on the PS2 (with the occasional double purchase 
 on Xbox for 4 player - one tv action) but this year I decided to buy the 08 version on 360 instead. 
 I already know the PlayStation 2 era of FIFA is slowly coming to an end, but it has been absolutely 
 incredible, so I wanted to experience the game in its HD goodness. While the game looks great, 
 unfortunately the gameplay is still in need of some work. The game is better than last year's 360 
 version, but it just has not reach its full potential.
  
  The biggest change from last year's version is the inclusion of more leagues. Last year, you only 
 a few leagues to choose from, this year, the choices are endless with most major leagues (British 
 Premier League, La Liga, etc...) and even some surprise additions like Australia's A-League, the 
 Irish League and the Czech League. It's nice that Australia was added, but the Irish league is 
 one of the weakest leagues in Europe, so it's inclusion seems odd; most people would have rather 
 they used the licence fee and gotten the Japanese J-League or at least a full Argentina League. 
 For the most part, the clubs are well represented, but like in recent year's the big league that 
 is Serie A is not fully represented and includes generic clubs.
  
  The other big addition to this year's version is Be A Pro Mode. In this mode, you essentially take 
 control of one player for the entire match. It's a great idea, but not fully realized. Unlike Madden's 
 Superstar Mode, you are simply controlling the player of your choice in a single-player match and 
 there is no real career building outside of your performance on the field, which only affects the 
 posibility of an achievement. Your performance rating adjusts depending on how well you call and 
 make passes, score goals or make good tackles, but there is little reward for playing the mode. 
 You'll enjoy the chance to take a superstar like Wayne Rooney, or in my case Thiery Henry and have 
 them score a goal, but you probably won't want to play the game with a defender since you might 
 be spending a lot of time doing nothing. The camera for this setting is also a bit of a problem 
 when your character is not involved in the action. The camera pans back quite a bit to keep you 
 on the screen, but when you're playing a striker and the other team is attacking, it can be hard 
 to see yourself.
  Hopefully this mode will be better realized in the future because it can be a fun playing option. 
 You also have the option of playing Manager Mode which works just as well as the older versions 
 and they even have included the Lounge for those who enjoy playing with their friends over. Also 
 in the game are challenge modes, which add a lot more replay to the game. You also have the ability 
 to create players and make a lot of adjustments to your squad (s) .
  
  The gameplay in the PS2 and Xbox versions of FIFA in the past were done really well; it was straight 
 forwards with a lot of great options. The best part of playing on those two consoles were the easy 
 controls and the options given to the player. Want to change your mentality, simply click the select 
 button and it was adjusted, want to play with a zonal defensive back-field, simply hold an L button 
 (trigger) and then hit the direction arrow in the right setting and it was done. In the HD versions, 
 you don't have that quick change ability. While you do in theory have the option of choosing 1 
 option you do not have the SD version's ability to take two or more options and work it the way 
 you like. Also, the controls in the HD versions are not that friendly to the past users who grew 
 accustomed to the SD control scheme. It's interesting that they decided to try something new, but 
 the World Cup game from '06 used the traditional control scheme and it worked pretty well, so it 
 doesn't make sense why they decided to change it last year and continue to play with it now. While 
 you do have the option to adjust your control scheme, you can only adjust it what they offer you, 
 rather than adjust to what you want. Hopefully in the future we'll be given the option to adjust 
 the controls to our specifications, but considering the number of controls there are in the game, 
 that might be unlikely.
  
  The AI has improved, but the fluidity of the players can sometimes still be a pain. Passing is 
 a problem and players on the pitch often seem to be on rails and do not adjust accordingly. It's 
 sad when so many of your passes which should connect, do not because the AI is not working to your 
 advantage. The problems continue when changing to another player or when trying to move quickly 
 in another direction, with or without the ball. When changing, you often do not get the closest 
 player to the ball, and when you're changing directions, your player does not turn easily and it 
 sometimes feels like they are a bus or a boat. Also, do not expect a lot of scoring unless you're 
 playing with a really strong team on an easier setting. I am currently playing the Dutch Season 
 with Ajax, and often I am finishing matches either 1:0 or in a scoreless draw. It's nice that the 
 score-lines are realistic, but when you're taking so many shots and not scoring it can be annoying; 
 or reversely, the computer only takes two shots and manages to score on both of them. The graphics 
 and sound are still quite good, but they could still do more work in making the atmosphere at these 
 games a bit more lively. It's nice to have various capacity at games depending on how well you 
 are doing in the season, but the sounds from the fans doesn't change and I still wish they'd bring 
 back flares and streamers from the crowd to give the game a more European feel. Martin Tyler and 
 Andy Gray are back in the commentary booth and continue to do a good job. Martin Tyler is considered 
 the best voice in the sport and he does a fairly good job this year . The conversations he and 
 Gray have are pretty interesting, but will be repetitive if you play as the same team too often 
 (eg. Playing as Barcelona in the Nou Camp, you'll hear them talk about the chapel at the stadium 
 a few times) .
  
  FIFA 08 is not a bad game, but it still is not the game it should be. If you're new the series, 
 you'll have a hard time getting adjusted to the controls, so take your time and play on the easier 
 settings for a bit. Even a more seasoned player like myself might want to play a few games on Semi-Pro 
 or Professional before attempting World Class or Legendary. There is still a lot of room for improvement 
 in the gameplay, but everything else seems to be on par for an HD game. Hopefully FIFA 09 or at 
 least the Euro 2008 game (there will be one, I'm sure of it) will improve the problems with the 
 on-the-field action, but until then, I strongly recommend you first rent this game before paying 
 60 dollars for it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crossofgold
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 14, 2007 8:00 pm PT
Review:  FIFA 08 is definitely the best FIFA yet, but its still got a ways to go. The Be-A-Pro mode was 
 a pretty big let down to me. I was hoping for more of a Campus Legend or NFL Superstar mode from 
 NCAA or Madden (respectively) . It is more of a pick your favorite player and play as him for a match. 
 It is still pretty cool but they could have taken it that step farther and made it where you can 
 make yourself and start as a youth player and work your way up. Another let down was the omission 
 of youth academies from this years version. You now just have a bunch of youth players in your 
 squad instead of being able to sign players. I was hoping they would take last years youth academies 
 a step further and be able to sign players to it and be able to monitor your youth and reserve 
 team progress. Other than that the game had solid improvements all around. In game play is incredibly 
 realistic. The game has become more of a passing, strategic style game over the previous version's 
 1-2-through ball=goal simple wins. The 360 graphics are amazing. The opposition team's cpu AI has 
 really stepped up and it has become hard to score goals. The team AI is a little stupid still, 
 they fail to react to intercepted passes and the defense is still pretty shaky. One plus is your 
 goalkeeper will finally make great saves. Overall i think this is by far the best FIFA and hopefully 
 next years will include a more in depth Be-A-Pro mode.
  Graphics= 9/10
  Gameplay=8/10
  Replay=9/10
  Authenticity=9/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: king-of-ruckus
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 14, 2007 2:19 pm PT
Review:  Bottom line FIFA 08 is very realistic and tons of fun to play. I have read a few reviews that says 
 how unrealistic this game is. I do not know where you are getting this, you can't shoot as accurately 
 while running full speed, you can't run through the entire team and tons of others. The graphics 
 look great, the players move like they do in real life and the character models are incredibly 
 detailed. The controls take a little while to get used to but once you do you will appreciate it. 
 There are still times where I feel the characters are not as responsive as I would have liked
 
  
  Overall this game is fun, it may be a little appealing to someone who doesn't play or watch soccer, 
 but anyone who understands the game will genuinely appreciate the attention to detail.
  
  If you enjoy a challenging soccer game then this is what you want. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bergkamp_1010
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 14, 2007 1:47 pm PT
Review:  Fifa 08 has once again improved upon last years Fifa.
  
  Graphics - The graphics are really good better than Pro Evo 8/10
  Gameplay - The gameplay is 
 almost the same as last years Fifa but a lot slowed down, which I don't really get because in a 
 league like the premiership the crosses and the passing is a lot quicker making the game less fluint 
 with the passing and the tackling makes it seem less realistic. 7/10
  Be a Pro - This mode is probably one of the best modes in this game the camera angles makes it 
 easy to actually imagine you can see into the eyes of your players as you work your way up the 
 pitch in a horizontal view, but this is only a match where you can play one match at a time, not 
 a season like in Manager Mode. 8/10
  Kick off - Just a mode to play against the COM or your mates.
  Manager Mode - exactly the same 
 as last years with a different format, still quite fun if your a real footy fan and enjoy winning 
 each league, buying new players, promoting lower league teams to the top divisions, or finishing 
 in the top 6 to lead your team to glory and winning the Champions League or UEFA Cup. Its mostly 
 about keeping your team, board an fans happy by winning matches and improving your rep as a manager. 
 8.5/10
  XBOX Live - This mode is probably going to keep you playing the longest if you have Live and is 
 great for wanting take on the rest of the world to prove you are the best. You can also create 
 your own league and compete with other people or friends in a normal league format. I suggest staring 
 on unranked before diving into ranked first as the level of how good people are is vastly more. 
 8/10
  Create Tournament - Same as last years you create/win your own tournament, but there isn't much 
 added to it. 6/10
  Player Arena - This is alot fun for doing tricks aginst the goalie taking freekicks/penalties to 
 improve your shooting accuracy and pracitising with your favourite player. 8/10
  
  Other details
  
  30 Leagues
  23 Real Stadiums
  15, 000 Players 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alex345673
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 14, 2007 1:33 pm PT
Review:  its another year and another fifa game.
  
  GAME PLAY: Ok lets start with the most important part of any game the game play. This game is just 
 too slow. i could run faster than some of the players in the game. the passing is just to slow 
 . Alot of things in this game are just to slow. One thing that i found good about the game play 
 was the new addition of the trick stick with was absent in previous versions of the next gen game. 
 I also liked how realistic the goalies diving to make saves was. the shooting system is nice to 
 . you cant just run as fast as u want at any angle and make a perfect shot. you have to control 
 the ball first to make a good shot.
  
  SOUND: This is probably where the game shines the most. The sound in this game is just superb. 
 The sound track is filled with song all around the world. When your playing the game it feels like 
 your in the stands. everything about the sound is good except of the commentator. Just listening 
 to him makes me want to go to sleep . even after you score a goal he just says it casually like 
 it was nothing.
  
  GRAPHICS: Most of you already know that this game has really really ridiculously good looking graphics. 
 the kits look good the players look good the field looks good everything looks good.
  
  GAME MODES: This years addition of the game has a few new game modes that where laking in last 
 years game. Lounge mode is back and boy am i happy about that. Manager mode is a bit deeper then 
 last years game but its almost the same. But what everyone is wanting to know about is the all 
 new Be A Pro mode. well i was really looking forward to this mode but after playing it i can tell 
 you that its a little bit over rated. the be a pro mode doesn't really feel like your out on the 
 pitch. The online is nice . you can show your skills to the world. there are more teams in this 
 years game such as the new A - League witch happens to be way under rated. so all in in all this 
 game is good but its not great. but maybe next time they can take more time on the gameplay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tillsta06
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 14, 2007 12:56 pm PT
Review:  When FIFA 07 on the Xbox 360 arrived last year, we were disappointed to say the least. Only six 
 leagues, only a selection of Stadiums, and very little in terms of features. However, if there 
 was one good thing to come out of it, it was the gameplay. It was new, innovative, and finally 
 felt like real football. However, it did feature many flaws, which were later resolved in UEFA 
 Champions League 2006-07.
  
  The gameplay for last year's game was a completely new engine, built from scratch. EA Sports had 
 been working on the new engine for two years, hence, the lack of features in the game - there was 
 just no time.
  
  However, FIFA 08 is a huge improvement. Working from the new game engine, the gameplay has been 
 much improved. The pace of the game is now slower, making the game feel like a real game. The slower 
 pace also gives the game an edge that makes your matches feel like real Premiership matches, or 
 indeed, other Leagues across the world.
  
  The passing is improved over last year's efforts. In FIFA 07, you would find that a lot of your 
 passes would go astray, and end up at the feet of the opposition. Now however there is much more 
 direction about your passes. You'll find that as long as you work a pass correctly it would turn 
 out as expected, leading to creation of chances. Another great aspect of the gameplay is the fact 
 that the game is now so much harder. Creating chances will require great skill and attention, especially 
 in those top Leagues. The defending is so much better now, making it hard for you to get anything 
 out of a clear-cut chance. Certainly, this can get frustrating, but it makes the game so much more 
 realistic.
  
  Gone are the days where you would constantly draw 3-3, or win 6-2. A much more realistic approach 
 to FIFA 08 finds you getting lower scores of 1-0, and yes - you will appreciate a 1-0 win after 
 you had worked so hard to get anything from a match/
  
  On to the features then. Another aspect much improved from 07. Instead of just having a poor selection 
 of six leagues, FIFA 08 features 30 Leagues from a range of nations. You will now be able to see 
 Promotions and Relegations in your games, thanks to the inclusion of the lower Leagues. There are 
 three new Leagues in total. These include the League of Ireland, Czech League and the Australian 
 A-League. Certainly, these might not be the best of inclusions, as there is still a lack of any 
 Argentine, Ukrainian and Greek Leagues. In every team of each League you will find a decent sized 
 pool of Players, as even the smaller Clubs of top Leagues will feature a few Reserve or Youth Players.
 
  
  The graphics are again great in FIFA 08. The kits look so detailed, as they are lisenced. Players 
 are easily recognisable as are the Stadiums. However, you may be disappointed to discover the lack 
 of weather affects again, as the only weather options include Sunny Day, Dusk and Night.
  
  Manager Mode is as healthy as ever, cooking up some fine times. You no longer have to start with 
 a lower-League club if you don't want to, as you can jump straight into the Liverpools and Barcelonas. 
 There is, however, a lack of Pre-Season games, a feature which appears on the current-gen version. 
 However, this doesn't take away much of the fun. Other than this, the Manager Mode is pretty much 
 as it was in FIFA 07, which makes it the boss mode of the game.
  
  Online is another great area in FIFA 08. You can now take part in the ever-popular Interactive 
 Leagues as featured in the current-gen versions of FIFA 07. Interactive Leagues require you to 
 play in real matches scheduled on a specific day. You can also set up your own online Leagues for 
 you and your friends to take part in.
  
  However, a real issue online is the ever-evident online quitters. You could be happily leading 
 by two goals to nil when the annoying 'disconnection' screen appears. It is often obvious when 
 the opponent quits, as they will usually do so immediately following a goal. No punishment for 
 them however, no defeat appears on their records, and, aggravatingly, no win for you.
  
  Other modes include Tournament Mode and Be a Pro Offline Training. Be a Pro requires you to take 
 control of just one player. Be a Pro isn't that great at the moment. Eventually EA are scheduled 
 to be releasing a patch, allowing for 5v5 matches online, eventually leading to an 11v11 by the 
 2010 World Cup.
  
  So, a much better game compared to the disappointment of last year, but still with its flaws. A 
 lack of Stadiums and Weather rejects from the game a little, but gameplay certainly makes up for 
 it. Online can still be improved, especially when we are able to play 5v5 online. However, this 
 is a massive step to stop PES, and, many PES gamers may find themselves unable to avoid FIFA 08. 
 Rightly so however, FIFA 08 is an amazing effort from EA and certainly great fun. The Manager Mode 
 will keep you going for a long, long time and theres of course the ever-going challenge of Online 
 Play.
  
  FIFA 08 is the best FIFA game to date, and this one shouldn't be avoided. Pro Evo - Watch Out! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: andrewkendo
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 13, 2007 5:52 am PT
Review:  Ok. Lets get the negative out of the way first.... WHERE IS JAPAN?!?!?
  Hello? You have Korea, but not Japan. Assanine! I gave it a 10-point deduction!!
  
  Ok, now 
 that we are past that, on to the official review .
  
  The game is great. Finally, EA read all of FIFA's hate mail and got a clue. Yes, we want MORE TEAMS!!! 
 50 isnt enough! The EPL isnt enough, we want the Coca-cola Championship 1 and 2. I find it quite 
 fun playing a D-2 team with the ambition to make it to the premiership. Now, playing a D-2 team 
 can be quite.... boring at times too. The players aren't as fast, so you may find the game moving 
 slow... because the players are slow, but you can always speed them up while you build expierence 
 points for your players. I like the fact you can create the Championsleague (unofficially of course) 
 but fill it up with 95% of the teams. This game is void of Ukranian teams, so you cant add Dynamo 
 to the fray, so what i did was just add Boca Juniors and River Plate in thier place. There are 
 a good number of staduims, however... this game does not have the City of Manchester Stadium. It 
 is one of the nicest stadiums in all of Europe!! If i could bestow one more piece of criticizm, 
 there arent ENOUGH international teams. Need more. I know this isnt Road to the World Cup but you 
 should have 90% of the international teams. And, as a rule, all of the teams that qualified for 
 the most recent World Cup. Graphics OUTSTANDING. Gameplay, slow when you are playing as inferior 
 teams. Soundtrack, great. Play-by-play, near spotless. FIFA finally woke up! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ahmedmaster31
Rating: 2.5
Date: Oct 12, 2007 5:31 pm PT
Review:  i uninstalled FIFA 08 full
  and playing PES 08 Demo
  all who said superb
  DID U PLAY PES ITS REAL FOOTBALL
  
  Graphics :cant even compare
  
  Gameplay : i can say 
 one thing how on earth i cant pass from deffender while i am c. ronaldo or ronaldinho
  
  Sound :HERE I CAN SAY FIFA ROCKS Really i am in a stadium
  but the man makes tons of mistakes
 
  
  Same old mistakes: They r still there like GK with ball inside the goal
  
  Be a Pro : not as i thought , Dissappointing
  
  Game modes : Whats new nothing manager mode 
 is despertly SAAAAMMMMMEEEEE 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jay_french_cool
Rating: 3
Date: Oct 12, 2007 10:39 am PT
Review:  bad, slow, borin, online its okay, but wait 4 pro evo, i have learned my lesson, i am sorry pro 
 evo gods!!!!!
  
  i am one that usually isnt bothered about kits and such, i bought fifa 07 about six months ago 
 as i grew tired of a lasey pes 6 360 conversion, and it was good, it was makin progress.
  
  but in the heat of a match it is just too slow, im not talkin about the pace of the game, im talkin 
 the length of time for the computer to regognise you have pressed a button, for exemple, i cross 
 a ball in, it takes a diflection and runs towards my player, i hit shoot, the player takes a touch.... 
 A TOUCH PEOPLE.... we are in the six yard box here and i want him to just shhot, and almost everytime 
 he takes a touch and is then tackled. not good.
  
  and that is about it, i thought fifa was makin progress, but i was wrong, for me it has gone backwards. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: conor_es
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 11, 2007 10:54 am PT
Review:  when i started playing fifa 08 i thought it was too hard but when you start to get used to it you 
 find that the difficulties are just right. when you start your career mode in fifa you deal with 
 the media and the transfer market is better and so is the new squad growth system ea have put into 
 itbut when you play pro all you ever do is play against team after team atfter team and most of 
 the time the team should not be in your league. another thing which is great is the be a pro mode 
 which lets you pick one player and play as him for the whole match. being honest if all you are 
 looking for is a game of football with your mates pro could be for you but if you relly want to 
 get into a game fifa is defginetely for you 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Adnan2005
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 11, 2007 10:39 am PT
Review:  Well when the demo came out on XBLive, I played it and I was totally disappointed because of the 
 movement and speed. The game was extremely slow in the demo and the players would react like 3 
 seconds after you pushed a command. I thought this would stay the same in the game when it finally 
 launched but it didnt. The speed got to a perfect level and the player movement is really smooth. 
 The players respond real quickly at commands, but not so quick where moves that are impossible 
 become possible. You cant do like a long pass and then catch the ball dribble it over a opposing 
 player and get away with it. In my opinion the game has improved a lot over 07. The graphics are 
 somewhat better; they seem a little more realistic and not too colorful. FIFA 07 had really strong 
 colors it seemed, the colors were really out there and the grass at times seemed really green to 
 a point were it looked like a carpet instead of grass. The sound is great; the fans are loud at 
 times but also sometimes very quiet, just like in real football matches. The commentators are improved, 
 they finally say different things and sometimes they talk about a stadiums history or a players 
 background. Overall its a much more improved game, its smooth, looks good, extremely fun to play 
 and worth getting.
  
  The online was fun as well the ability to play with more then one person was great, but at times 
 it got laggy probably the host connection was weak. As for the PRO mode, I didn't quite like it 
 as much as I was thinking I would. its kind of hard to control the players because you have to 
 control your player who's in like striking position while at the same time pay attention to the 
 ball that went to the middlefield or defensive part of the field. Sometimes you pay too much attention 
 to the ball and end up loosing your players behind the opposing teams goal. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: m_aghajani
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 11, 2007 7:37 am PT
Review:  A very realastic moves (more then PES or WE) , very different and interesting modes for play in 
 4player team!
  The ZonePlay mode is very exciting and we have a lot of fun with it.
  The ProMode is also a complete new experience.
  The dribling techniqes improved very much and 
 if you use them in time you will see their effects.
  I love the difficullty of this game over FIFA07, goalkeepers have much AI and don't fool over the 
 pitch.
  Different shouting and passing and throw balls also add more Pro ways to play.
  Custom direction pass, throw and ... is also good. (not perfect with some bugs)
  Overall some 
 problems of FIFA07 resolved, so I thanks the EA team.
  
  I hope we have all countries national teams and their leagues in next FIFA09 :) ) . If PES goes 
 on it way in previous version I will definitly play FIFA08 instead of PES! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: altmoonster
Rating: 6
Date: Oct 10, 2007 10:25 pm PT
Review:  While playing the demo I had high hopes for this game. However after finally playing several games 
 with the full version, I feel a bit let down. There is no doubt that FIFA 08 is an improvement 
 over last year's effort by EA, but it is a marginal improvement at best. The graphics are fine, 
 the commentary is good, but we all really know that FIFA's problem has always been with game play. 
 And unfortunately the problem is still with game play.
  
  A sampling of a few of the problems is as follows:
  Players dance around the ball while performing 
 the slightest turn, as if they are wearing roller skates on an ice skating rink. Defenders defy 
 logic as they run away from a loose ball in their own penalty box.
  
  You will see passing that befits a youth league in terms of pace. And you will actually be able 
 to count seconds between when you signal for a long pass on the controller and your on screen avatar 
 executes the command.
  
  All negative commentary aside, I will play this game, largely because I am a rabid fan of the beautiful 
 game. And it is a step forward in the EA franchise. It is not, however, good enough to be truly 
 addictive, and not good enough to be ranked among the greats. Keep trying EA!. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mmlopez79
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 10, 2007 9:43 pm PT
Review:  Last year when EA launched FIFA 07 i was very disappointed because the game was terrible. On the 
 other hand FIFA 08 looks better, the gameplay is awesome, and the AI works very well. The only 
 thing EA must correct in FIFA 09 is the pass speed. It is very slow, also the form that the players 
 seek the ball. But the game is very good. PES will have to fill a pair of very large shoes. Maybe, 
 many people will have a difficult time learning the controls and making plays (specially new series 
 fans) , but is not impossible.
  
  I feel very happy that FIFA are taking care of make their series better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BigSuz77
Rating: 5.5
Date: Oct 10, 2007 8:35 pm PT
Review:  This game is no good. The game play is slow and boring. It seems like all the Fifa producers care 
 about is online so you can shell out more money to Microsoft to play online, Well let me tell you 
 somthing not everyone has or is into online play so these gimmiks that are being implemented on 
 multiple game titles to push gamers online for bigger profites are a complete foresakeness of its 
 costumers, I have seen this in Madden, NBA live and now fifa. The core game and tilt is not expanded 
 or cared about by these game makers, Example the Manager mode is untouched and horribly plan. Were 
 this feature should be the focalpoint of this game. This is the biggest feature for a gamer playing 
 on his XBOX 360 expecting a recreation of the beautiful game in a FULL experiance. The Manager 
 mode stays untouched and the edit mode is laughable. This game feels like a demo. It is basiclly 
 forcing you online. Be a pro huh? Instead of calling it a sim why doesnt Ea call it what it really 
 is an a Blah game that is made for a 1v1 10v 10 experiance test . Isnt it time for the producers 
 to start focusing on somthing different in terms of features and not stay stuck in the same stuff 
 for 3 years now just beacause you know theres another version coming out in a year that we will 
 have to pay another 6o dollars for and prob get the same result yet again. On contray to what people 
 are saying this game it is NOGOOD and is another example of the corprate dominated focus of video 
 games by EA in genral by not evolving in the way that is loyal to its fans and customers. We are 
 not fools and we expect our expectations of games to be meet after we countinually state what we 
 want in games on forums only to be ignored year after year by greed profit eyeing companys like 
 Electronic Arts. -Games spot this is my opinion and alot of peoples opinion so dont delete this 
 post cuz of pressure aplyed by game companys on you to make them look good . This is not a communist 
 society and we will not exept this garbage being sold to us year after year now ever since the 
 next gen consoles were realased. This is NOT a buisness to us it is a HOBBY. Ea is content on what 
 they are doing. Look to 2K a real innovator in terms of sports games. Look at konami. No wonder 
 EA gerts buryied on most and all forums and conversations I can think of. I think EA is in need 
 of a closer look at it self as we progress on to year 4 of way sub par games compared to company 
 profits. EA you will feel the effects of your lazyness and greed in the near future Its inevitable. Again 
 Gamespot keep this review up. DONT GET THIS GAME! SAVE YOUR MONEY. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: slavenL8
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 10, 2007 3:24 pm PT
Review:  FIFA 08 is the best game in the soccer universe. It contains new menus and great GFX, this game 
 will crush its competition. The market will be shatteered by this game.
  
  I can't wait till FIFA 09 comes out, just to see what else they introduce. FIFA 08 contains new 
 tricks and the ability to create your own tricks really advertises the game.
  
  The olnly down fall is the Be A Pro-Mode, I expected a little more from FIFA. They should have 
 introduced the a Superstar Mode like the Madden series. It provides a lot of bang for you buck.
 
  
  The best soccer game available and PES has no chance of winning the markets. The FIFA Series simply 
 contain more content than PES.
  
  Buy this game and try it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jpw2
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 14, 2007 6:14 am PT
Review:  Well another year and another fifa but is it any better?.
  
  Well to put it simply YES, after the really disastorous attempt of fifa 07 on the 360 things needed 
 to improve. But this year EA have really pulled thir thumbs from their A**** and made a great game 
 this year that has captured the beautiful game of football (soccer) to near perfection this year. 
 They have slowed down the pace to real football speed so it no longer has an arcadey feel and you 
 can truely call fifa a simulator now.
  
  Theyve introduced a new shooting system where you can strike the ball in a huge variety of ways 
 it is not likely you will see the same goal twice here. Player likeness has been given a huge overhaul 
 this year too; you can really see the players act like their real life counterparts now like wen 
 you see Adebayor use his huge strides as he bowls down the pitch and Cesc Fabregas with hes little 
 walk of confidence distributing the ball around the park with ease everything feels like real football 
 now.
  
  At first the game feels really tough you find that you can never break down the defence or hardly 
 even get a shot on goal, but once youve been playing alot you master it and youl be scoring like 
 a pro with a studied build up and a lovely finish at the end which makes you feel really proud 
 of yourself, the new passing is great and the gamelay is just brilliant nothing wrong here some 
 people complain that its too hard but you know a football game is better when its harder to score 
 like a real match rather than walloping teams like 20-0; that is unrealistic.
  
  Commentary feels great at first it is great really but after a while you notice Martin Tyler repeating 
 things over an over again and it gets a bit annoying.
  
  Graphics look fairly similar to 07's but look a bit more polished. The looks of some of the players 
 still isnt very good they don't look much like there real life counterparts and they still have 
 weird body shapes. But they do look good from a disatnce while playing in gameplay.
  
  Menu layout is practically the same as 07s
  
  The fouls are still a bit dissapointing where 
 you make a 100% completely clean tackle and you get penalised for it and its just really stupid. 
 Apart from these few problems everything else is fine.
  
  All the leagues and temas missing from 07 on the 360 that where on the ps2 versions are back with 
 some new additions: Czech league, Irish league, Australian league so this is great news so we no 
 longer only have 5 leagues to choose from.
  
  Manager mode is back being good again with proper currency being re-introduced and promotions and 
 relegations back because all the other leagues are back.
  
  It has loads of modes including:
  
  - Be a pro where you control only 1 player and try to master 
 his postion
  - Tournament mode
  - Create a Tournament mode - Challenge mode
  - Fifa Lounge
  
  you can also create a player once again with a new system of appearnce creation, 
 but you cant create a team.
  
  Stadiums are quite plentiful but it doesnt have as much as you may have liked heres a full list 
 of them:
  
  Allianz Arena
  Anfield
  BayArena
  Camp Nou
  Delle Alpe
  Emirates
  Stadio Azteca
  Stadio De Las Artes
  Mestalla
  Vicente Calder&oacute; n
  HSH Nordbank Arena
 
  Millennium Stadium
  Old Trafford
  Olympiastadion
  Parc des Princes
  San Siro
  Signal Iduna Park
  St James' Park
  Stade de Gerland
  Stade Velodrome
  Stadio Olimpico
 
  Stamford Bridge
  Veltins-Arena
  Wembley Stadium
  plus FOUR GENERIC STADIA (for lower-league matches) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darkblaster20
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 9, 2007 5:47 pm PT
Review:  Una gran cualidad de este juego es que en toda la historia de los videojuegos estupidamente llamados 
 soccer sims o simulador de futbol ha sido absurdo, especialmente en a&ntilde; os anteriores que 
 han tenido a Pro Evolution Soccer como el nuevo leo messi de los soccer sims, y teniendo a fifa 
 por debajo de este nivel... pues es ahora donde el balon de oro o el fifa world game se lo merece 
 este juego... no, mas bien dicho ESTE SIMULADOR DE FUTBOL. Con una inmensa definicion de lo que 
 realmente es el juego, es algo sorprendente lo que estos genios de EA han hecho para generar lo 
 mas real posible un partido de futbol que es minimizado en pocos minutos, eso es de admirar ya 
 que las criticas giran en torno a la velocidad del juego, pero aceptemoslo, en a&ntilde; os anteriores 
 ya sea en fifa o en PES, la velocidad era tan absurda que en el primer tiempo de 3 min. podias 
 anotar hasta 6 o 9 goles, ridiculo! pero era el tope de lo que nos podian ofrecer en ese entonces 
 y aun asi lo disfrutabamos y adorabamos nuestros jueguitos lindos de futbol... ESO TERMINO!! Con 
 unas exelentes graficas hasta el minimo detalle de los estadios (iluminacion, sombra del palco, 
 estado de la cancha, etc) los jugadores (sudor en la piel, camisas con alta reaccion a la inercia 
 de la gravedad, etc) y muchisimos mas, son estos los detalles que hacen de este juego unico en 
 el mercado.
  
  El nivel de dificultad es algo que tambien es criticado, y es algo de lo cual yo estoy agradecido 
 con este lindo simulador, con miles de reacciones de la CPU ya sea en ataque o en defensa, lo cual 
 hace que este juego sea dificil y que celebremos los goles como si se los hacemos a los equipos 
 reales, como si el real madrid repite miles de veces las inumerables derrotas al barcelona y uno 
 las disfruta tal como son, como si estubiera en el palco... no, no mas bien, como si fuera el mismo 
 raul o el mismo ruud van nistelrooy.
  
  Un juego que si hubiera una nota mayor de 10... QUE VA!!! LE DOY UN 100 A FIFA 08. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sa33ood
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 9, 2007 1:11 am PT
Review:  Forget about animation based football games; forget about button combination arcade matches, and 
 start clearing up your mind for the new title in football world, FIFA 08.
  
  The game is SOLID , in every meaning this word has; player reactions, judgments, and most of all 
 your full control over the match, are all sawed together to create for us one of the most amazing 
 and realistic football action I've ever seen in all football games since Winning Eleven 1.
  
  This game is different in all ways you can think of it; yeah, maybe it is a football game, 
 yeah, maybe you do ball passing and shooting like any other football game, but the way these things 
 happen are now totally random.
  
  You can't compare this game to any other football titles, it is wrong and unfair to judge FIFA 
 08 that way, you should play it with full attention to the fact that it is the new system of playing 
 football games.
  
  I'll not talk about graphics or gameplay, as my last three paragraphs explain my feeling and love 
 to this footy title. I would like from EA next year to work more on presentation, such as having 
 no cut scenes at all, and combining them with the real-time match for better experience, that's 
 all.
  
  Enjoy FIFA 08, seriously. :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: uk_beny
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 7, 2007 6:07 pm PT
Review:  well its fair to sy im pleasently supprised when it comes to this every fifa just been disapointing 
 me since Fifa 04 but wow this one is differnent i mean everything about its just wow its fair to 
 say they could have done alot more in the graffics department i mean it is next gen for god sake 
 but its not to bad and they have made possibly the greatest loading screen in gaming history i 
 spent an hour taking shots at the goal having completly forgoten about the match i was about to 
 play to be hounest i enjoyed the match more then the match i played but the minigame loading screen 
 even got me used to well the dozens of new tricks that you can use to out smart the very smart 
 AI it took longer to learn all the tricks then i would have liked but still its worth the time 
 if memory serves the new challenge mode was very enjoyable hard but enjoyable.
  
  As much as i hate to admit i loved this game and as i write this review i have the game paused 
 in the backround i would make it longer but hell i want to go play more Fifa 08.
  
  A deffinate buy go run to game and buy it ASP 
::::::

::::::
UserName: damariners
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 7, 2007 3:36 am PT
Review:  8.5 huh... so it's fair enough for this FIFA08. The one who expected to be near 10? hell no man... 
 U want near 10 it got to be ' total real soccer experienced' 1. every aspect of the stadium itself 
 (the coach, staff, subs at the bench, etc about surrounding the pitch animation) 2. The manager 
 mode it got to be the autograph session, fan days, signing players conference n much more in the 
 manager mode
  3. Game play currently just awesome, just need little additional at some part, that all...
  4. 
 Bla bla bla... hahaha nway FIFA08 got what it take... hehe for PES hmm maybe next year... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sophonmore
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 5, 2007 4:34 pm PT
Review:  Fifa 08. Where do i have to start. Unbelievable game. Every year i have been getting disapointed 
 with the poor results from Ea Sports but this year its differrent. Ea has introduced the new mode 
 Tournament Mode, and Pro Mode. Each of them having there own attributes. Manager Mode has the same 
 attributes like every other Fifa but its a classic. You can't get over it. They have introduced 
 a really good thing. They have brought in a whole new league from Australia, The 'A-League'. Fifa 
 isn't like the other soccer games. The computer adapts to your style of football really quickly 
 so you can't have one tactic. Scoring is one of the hardest things to learn. It took me 5hrs to 
 learn how to shoot probably but when you learn, it is really fun.
  
  Fifa online has been the same so in other words it is perfect. the online lobby is 100%.
  
 
  Fifa has impressed me and its fans, so all of the Pro Evolution fans, you have picked to wrong 
 game, Fifa is what everyone imagines it to be, 'revolutionary'.
  
  Fifa= Best game ever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: huntercal
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 3, 2007 7:02 pm PT
Review:  Let me start by saying that Im a huge FIFA fan; Im a big believer in the idea that you are either 
 a Pro Evolution gamer or a FIFA gamer and Im definitely the latter. I like the idea of complete 
 authenticity in the kits, stadiums and players and to this extent FIFA 08 does not disappoint at 
 all.
  
  The best part of FIFA 08 has to be the whole set up of the gameplay, Ive loved the previous FIFA 
 games but always felt that the way to get the most out of the game meant you played a style of 
 football that doesnt reflect the way the teams do in the actual leagues. FIFA 08 changes all that 
 as I found very early on that the best way to get a win was to play a flashy passing game with 
 a lot more reliance on setting up the action by linking series of passes together and ultimately 
 leading to a well earned finish. The only annoying factor in the early stages of playing the FIFA 
 08 is getting used to is the right analogue stick to change players, once you get the hang of it 
 though it becomes a welcome addition.
  
  All the standard game modes remain in this newest of FIFA instalments such as tournament and manager 
 modes but FIFA 08 also heralds in new modes, no more innovative than Be-a-Pro where you take on 
 the role of one player in the team of your choice. You are judged on your team contribution and 
 effectiveness in your player position; pretty much dont make aggressive runs if youre a defender 
 your manager will not thank you for it just stick to tackles and blocks. This mode takes a behind 
 the shoulder view of all the action rather than the standard side on view you see in regular matches, 
 the camera wont be an issue though as you will be fully aware of it as the style is what makes 
 up the loading menus.
  
  Another great inclusion in 08 is more leagues, something that was severely lacking in 07 on next 
 generation consoles last year. The leagues are so comprehensive you can even play in the Australian 
 A-League (not that youd want to) or the Irish Republic league, there are so many leagues it should 
 entice any football anywhere in the world to pick up a copy.
  
  Online play is also awesome and gives you a great link to the real world with live score updates 
 and news via ESPNSoccernet to make sure your not neglecting your actual team (GO NEWCASTLE UNITED!) 
 the online ply I also top notch with ranked and non-ranked gameplay making sure both the serious 
 and casual gamer are catered for.
  
  All this coupled with a killer soundtrack and great visuals, this is a must buy for all FIFA fans 
 and Football fans in general.
  
  9.0/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mullinmagic
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 3, 2007 12:27 pm PT
Review:  This years fifa has come a long way since the previous fifa! A slower pace and fluid gameplay is 
 the first noticable change, The visuals and the game types are the second! The mode 'Be a pro' 
 is the best idea i have seen in a football game ever and immerses you into the game! The only problem 
 with 'be a pro' is you cant just jump into a leauge as player! although its almost like a another 
 game itself, the online features are second to none! online gameplay without lag, online leauges 
 and custom tournaments are a god send! Visually the game is amazing, the crowd look great from 
 a distance, the player models are true to real life and even the movement i. e. watch how david 
 becham takes a free kick! its just like watching him on tv! truly immersive! I'd say Fifa 08 is 
 the best &pound;40 you'll ever spend (unless your a pro evo fanboy!) as a football fan! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: flash69
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 3, 2007 12:07 pm PT
Review:  Been a Fifa fan since day one. Pro evo is or should i say now was for the more profesional player. 
 Fifa 08 as been re-made and nearly to perfection this time. The menu lay out is the same as last 
 year so for us fifa pros it easy to get into the action straight away. The game play as been slowed 
 down considerably comapred to last years effort and feels like a real football sim. There is no 
 more nine nil thrashings on pro mode or even semi-pro. The A. I is very good and challeging on all 
 levels. I have to admit it does seem to be to hard at times even for me on professional. The play 
 is slick as ever with lovely graphics. Amazing commentry as ever with a few jokes now and again 
 chucked in. The opposition doesnt wonder around like last year and it forces you to think about 
 how to play football. The long ball does not work as the A. I anticepate where its going to land 
 or go and will intercept it well before you. The new improved play i find is great it what football 
 is all about. Pass, move try and make openings to score. When you do score it feels great the hard 
 work was well worth as the replays kick in. The usual E. A glamour is there in its full glory but 
 better than ever. I really feel Fifa have hit the mark this year and pro evo is now a mer legend.
 
  For us 360 achievment getters its the first time E. A have made it very challeging to win them 
 all. I recommend this game to any serious football fan who wants a challenging game of football 
 and to all the pro evo lovers im afraid its time to change. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: millsy92
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 3, 2007 8:19 am PT
Review:  This game is amazing it has loads of brilliant things e. g fans, skills, shots, gameplay that role 
 into one great football game.
  If you don't own this game then you should be put away.
  If you want a game that is life like, challenging, creative, colourful, a game that is so addictive 
 you stay on for three days straight, this is the one. I wouldn't get worried about spending the 
 money on it just enjoy it. Whether on PC PS2/3 or XBOX 360 you will love it even you guys who are 
 addicted to Pro Evo its worth jumping on the FIFA band wagon.
  10/10 all the way. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bistoha2
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 3, 2007 7:51 am PT
Review:  i got it the day after it came out i was looking forward to playing it. so had my first game scored 
 a brilliant goal, i cant believe how realistic it is the way the ball flew. oh and the way the 
 players look superb so life like. its more challenging than previous fifa games but alot more fun. 
 be a pro mode is a nice addition and the option to play in the pro camera mode in manager mode 
 is a nice touch. after playing it for about an hour my mate came round at about 9pm i dont know 
 where the time went but we were playing till 2 in the morning lol bit sad but oh well anyway 10/10 
 well done EA Canada p. s i want them to add the blue square conference just to be exeter city
  cmon CITY!!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: swift_muziq
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 3, 2007 4:04 am PT
Review:  FIFA 08 is the most realistic football game ever, I'll explain why.
  
  This game is not for people who just want to pick up and play as if its and arcade game, its a 
 masterpeice and revolution in the football/soccer gaming.
  People's perceptions on the Fifa series need to be dropped and the byast infatuctuation with the 
 PES series need to be let go.
  
  The games pace is perfect, it isnt slow, when the game starts each player gets a feel of the ball 
 and the team gains momentum as each individual gets a touch. Each player speeds up with the ball, 
 building momentum and pace the same way a car does, they don't automaticaly go from 0mph to 35mph 
 in 1 seconds. Each player is an individual within their category. Defenders dribble slower than 
 midfielders and are built to mark, tackle best and defend, they are less likeley to perform skills 
 and get pass.
  Midfielders have better dribbling pace &amp; speed, and handle tricks alot better.
  Strikers 
 have more powerful shots, a very fast sprinting pace when in stride.
  Players have realistic energy and cant sprint from one side of the pitch to the other and not slow 
 down.
  
  The Ai is extremely authentic and smart.
  Each player lives up to the 1000 thoughts per second per player, Defenders dont bunch so you wont 
 see 3 defenders going after 1 player unless you hold B for an Ai controlled player to assit you 
 on an oposing players run. They realise danger and block goal threats. Players do not stray out 
 of position or regulary leave marked men.
  Goalkeepers are very realistic showing they are aware of almost everything and keep realistic positioning 
 knowing when to come forward or back off but will like real keepers make mistakes.
  
  Physics.
  Each player has full 360&deg; The ball has its own animation and physics, enabling 
 it to go anywhere on a body, goal/netting or pitch. Players can clash in anyway possible, and cannot 
 run through each like other games as if they were made from fluid. Tackles are authentic and player 
 falls are so realistic, nearly all player movements look 100% real including turns/tricks/running/tackles 
 and more. passing is very nice and foot movements are great. Sound in the game is wonderfull, weather 
 your in the game menu or a match. It has a huge soundtrack of many good songs while the in game 
 sound is so authentic, it is so nice hearing the difference when playing at home and away, internationals 
 and lower divisions. it is extremely wonderfull if you have a 5.1 surround sound kit hooked up.
 
  
  Features.
  Features in the game are too much for my brain to handle.
  Be a pro when fully launched will be the best thing ever for online fans like myself, up to 5 Vs 
 5 online is a god sent gift to games. When your play be a pro in offline training or in challenges 
 it is such a fun very realistic experience, wich is new everytime you play, just take a step back 
 and leaving work to the Ai is hard at first, but when you see how smart your teammates are happy 
 to let them do what is needed as in real life.
  Interactive online leauges are very addictive, im in one now an it is intense trying to get higher 
 within the 32 man league that is fully customisable. 1 on 1 play online is so nice, fun and smooth. 
 You can play up to a 40 minute match online, wich feels so real when as you through so much emotions.
 
  manager mode is very authentic and feels great dealing with real money and building up your team 
 and young players.
  
  This game has to get at least a 9 but wont because of too many PES fanboys.
  
  Everything i 
 said is what happens in the real football and within fifa 08, that being said the pace for the 
 game is perfect. you will realise when you play it again.
  people need to look past what they are used not switch it off in two seconds because its not the 
 same as PES, Fact is, its better! It is so much more real.
  You cant shoot from the half way like and its hard to get passed players. just try it.
  PES is 
 Fake and too fast, its graphics and physics are very poor its so much of an arcade game its not 
 playable, Konami have taken a step backwards since coming onto the next gen market, PES looks like 
 a PSP game or something for the wii.
  I was a PES FAN, now Im FIFA. Im Only buying FIFA 08 This Year 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tig1979
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 3, 2007 3:55 am PT
Review:  I'm not a total footie loving nut but i don't mind the game every year i try out FIFA and PES see 
 how they fair.
  
  FIFA has all the stats players etc you need which is good for staticians.
  
  Graphics:- Very 
 nice fluid animation, good fram rate, some fo your more notable players look like they do in RL, 
 your other every day joes look like clones with different hair, not a massive problem though, not 
 a huge step up from 07 but ok, hope they can get the shirts moving etc like Virtua Tennis 3 that 
 would polish it off nicely
  
  Sound:- Run of the Mill FIFA commentary, but fgs please take out Andy Gray and bring even Andy 
 Townsend back from UEFA, can't stand Gray at all, would be nice to get mottie and Alan Hansen or 
 something, soundtrack is ok but i rarely listen to it, bought the game for the game not the menu 
 tracks
  
  Playability:- Plays better than 07 without a shadow of a doubt, moves slowly gives you more time 
 to think and plan your moves BUT this games seems to rip you off in some horrible ways which makes 
 the harder thing not always so good, played 50-75 matches and i think the most i got was 4, which 
 is a nice touch instead of 15-0's galore! Problem i have is through passing- why does it very rarley 
 work, seems to be someone always there just to run infront and grab it, take a goal kick- why does 
 the opposing team ALWAYS win it and end up having a crack at goal from it, tackling- plus side 
 with all the crazy slides around very rarely see red cards like we did in old FIFA's but every 
 slider you pull commits a foul, every slider they make no problem.... Last but not least why the 
 hell do the players not always go where you want? I've been in a situation player off the ball 
 you anticipate the move and you could be in on goal like a rocket, but no matter how hard you pull 
 push throw it at the window the controller says no your player is not moving YOU are A. I. controlled 
 now too, so what is the deal with harder difficulty levels...... the A. I. takes over from your control 
 from time to time just so you can't do the move you are so desperately trying to get your player 
 to pull....
  
  Overall not bad but for me just another FIFA EA are reknowned from rehashing old stuff and its 
 pretty much here again with some slight changes, worth buying if your a football fan and want the 
 latest teams up to date etc otherwise rent it first
  
  One more thing..... why are transfers so damn hard to pull off in this, no one wants to come to 
 your team for any stupid amount of money you offer..... bit of a change from Champ Man where anyone 
 is yours for the right price.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hakass
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 2, 2007 12:11 pm PT
Review:  So here's how it goes. I'm a pro evo fan, frantically looking forward to the next pro evo game 
 more than anything else in the world right now. I used to be a big fifa fan back in the days of 
 98 and prior, but i saw a whole new light when ISS took to the stage and realised what football 
 games are meant be like. Fifa 07 to me was an absolute shamble. Taking a gamble i decided to pick 
 up a copy of 08 and see what this next gen fuss was all about. Not all bad to be honest.
  
  The game kicks off with a 3rd person view of the mighty ronaldinho and allows you to try out the 
 games impressive fifa street style skills. From side steps to flip flops, the skills are vast and 
 the controls allow you to preform a number of moves depending on the way you toggle the analogue. 
 First thing that crossed my mind here was I hope you can pull these off in the game... 
  
  So i quickly load up a game. Nice and simple. Manchester United Vs Arsenal at Old Trafford stadium. 
 The game loads up (with another ronaldinho trick frenzy, very nice idea for a loading screen if 
 i do say so myself) and im finally in.
  
  One thing that I'v admired about fifa games over the years are the amazing graphics they seem to 
 pull off annually. Next Gen is on a whole new level however as the graphics in this are absolutly 
 amazing. From the blades of grass on the football pitch to the creases in the players shirts, the 
 attention to detail is vast and everything looks very crisp (I do however have a slight issue with 
 the players face accuracy, but i'll let that one slide) . The animations are also to be reckoned 
 with as players move around fluently across the terrain making the game of football look more realistic 
 than ever before. Commentary is fair though slightly exaggerated at times in places it isnt really 
 needed. Also Andy Gray is sooo annoying its not even funny. Some of the stuff he comes out with 
 takes the match seriousness down a few notches. Though obviously, as with any game, gameplay is 
 the key factor to pick at. Fifa however doesnt deliver as it should.
  
  I must say that at first, the gameplay was pretty enjoyable. The engine is very solid and the key 
 to the game is infact build up play and space finding rather than running through the opponents 
 defence with your most skillfull player. The game actually made me feel like i was in complete 
 control of an actual football match and made me think tactically more than anything else. Sadly, 
 my patience could only be tested for so long and the style of play that fifa 08 makes you adapt 
 to gets very tedious very fast. Scoring is infact quite ridiculous in this game. You can build 
 up play and pass the ball around for so long before an interception occures putting you right back 
 to where you started from. Through balls are pretty useless and the keepers seem to have some sort 
 of super powers as any shot that goes remotely near the net is saved in an amazing fashion. And 
 i really wouldn't mind, but the gameplay flows at such a slow and daunting pace its hard to create 
 a quick combo down the field. The games shooting system doesn't do it any favours either as 9/10 
 shots seem to completely miss the target even when in a clear shooting position with the likes 
 of Rooney. All in all, this leads to a continuous barrage of boring 0 - 0 draws that get tedious 
 after a certain amount of time. The gameplay would almost be saved by the impressive array of skills 
 your capabable of doing ingame if it wasn't so damn hard to pull them off when actually facing 
 an opponent thats anything above the beginner level. So in the rare occasion you do manage to pull 
 off the impossible and flick the ball over a defenders head, then SOMEHOW get double lucky and 
 volley that floating ball into the top corner of the net, the reward would be a big buzzing feeling 
 that you worked oh so hard for. Sadly, i dont have that sort of patience myself. On top of that 
 you wouldn't be able to save that wonderous goal of yours anyway as the feature is still not available 
 (from what i saw) which just makes things all the more annoying.
  
  Alas, i'll keep playing the game for jokes as the football feels very realistic (if not TOO realistic) . 
 It also looks pretty cool and its a nice change from pro evo after so long of playing it. Sadly, 
 when the day comes, fifa will be shoved aside faster than anything i can think of right now. I 
 just hope Pro doesnt dissapoint me as much as this did. Oh, and is it just me or does fifa seem 
 to rip off a PES feature ever single year. I rate one day they'll just give up and make the exact 
 same game. Lookin forward to it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BelaidKL
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 3, 2007 9:08 am PT
Review:  This was the first fifa game ive been looking forward to ever since the first gameplay video came 
 out. The first time i played it i found it fun and new as the last version were no match to PES. 
 After ten games in my league and over a dozen separate games on multi-player, i found the game 
 to be abit too annoyingly realistic and frustrating. Games seemed a bit repetitive and skills are 
 impossible to produce similar to goals.
  One of the games i played i had lost to an average team. I took 27 shots on goal and 17 were on 
 target, most were 1 on 1. I lost 4-1 due to my keepers poor efforts but the oppositions keeper 
 was slightly impossible to beat. Fabregas got the only goal after i fully powered it into top corner 
 getting me my only goal against West Ham and yes i was Arsenal.
  I'm still playing the game for now which ive kept as its the only current football game on the 
 next gen system, i also have pes 6. After the 26th October however i'm pretty confident that fifa 
 will be gone and pes 08 will take over once again as it has done in my opinion ever since fifa 
 05 and pes 4. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Panakas
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 2, 2007 4:22 am PT
Review:  Fifa 2008 really is fantastic!
  Just use the PRO camera and play!
  You will feel like you are in the pitch playing the beautiful game!
  I'm a PES fun. But... I think 
 fifa 2008 is really fantastic...
  They totaly changed the gameplay. New passing moves, new shooting.
  The graphs are stunning as 
 always.
  You can even create your own player and play in pro mode using only 1 player-your player!! IT IS 
 FANTASTIC I TELL YOU!!
  I also tried pes 2008 demo and I can only say....
  When you play fifa 2008 (IN PRO CAMERA) you will dislike-be dissapointed with pes2008!
  I'm telling 
 you!!
  When I played pes 2007 I really liked the gameplay!
  Fifa 2007 gameplay wasn't as good as pes gameplay...
  Now It is the opposite!!
  PES feels unreal!! I 
 couldn't believe that!
  You must try it your self!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Harwood-15
Rating: 5
Date: Oct 1, 2007 8:52 am PT
Review:  Don't get me wrong, the game isn't pure rubbish, it's just that after looking forward to it for 
 a while and then playing it, I was very disappointed.
  
  I'll start with the good bits. First up, the graphics look really good, a lot better than last 
 year and it's really impressive, I also love how well the players move now, some of their actions 
 and general goalkeeper reactions. It's also nice to see some tricks in the game which adds some 
 element to it but can also be annoying as hell.
  
  Now, the bad bits... where do I start? Well, the shooting is the top subject here. This FIFA game 
 (in my opinion) has the worst shooting technique ever... seriously. In 07, some of the shots you 
 made looked awesome and 7/10 they went in or at least went on target or hit the post. Now, it's 
 completely different, it's a struggle even to get a shot anywhere due to the fact that if you point 
 the controller even the slightest bit the wrong way, your shot goes way over. I'm not exaggerating, 
 seems like you need to get it pin point which is a let down. But to join this, the defence of the 
 opposition isn't the easiest either, even if the team is only half a star. It seems near impossible 
 to run past someone and shoot, because you either don't get past them in the first place, or if 
 you do, your shot is either a poke at the keeper or it blasts metres wide.
  
  Secondly, the running controls. Again, possibly the worst, 07 was so much better. One run in the 
 wrong way and the whole game changes, just because the player was a bit late. The passing is the 
 same, it needs to be so precise now, it really does ruin the fun factor now. I finished playing 
 it recently because at some point, I was going to throw the controller somewhere, I found it that 
 frustrating.
  
  One last point, do they ever miss free kicks? To conclude though, I wouldn't say it's a truly terrible 
 game but for me, 07 (play wise) was so much more fun. FIFA 08 is such a let down to be perfectly 
 blunt. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dodgydellboy
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 1, 2007 1:22 am PT
Review:  This is the best fifa they have made, a huge improvement on 07 with simply loads more gameplay, 
 tactics, modes and fun. This has even converted my brother in law from PES - to beat this they 
 are going to have to do a hell of alot - if you like your football games you will certainly like 
 this. They have made a huge improvement in the manager mode, with more realistic player values 
 and money system, also you are able to actually buy players who are not on the market aslong as 
 the price is right. Dont waste no time or money waiting for PES, go out and buy this - you will 
 not be dissapointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JoeTheFunk
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 30, 2007 3:15 pm PT
Review:  First of all may I say Well done to EA, I had the good fortune to work as a games tester in their 
 QA department a couple of years ago and at that time we were playing FIFA 06 which as you all know 
 was weak... I've been a Pro Evo Fan since about PES3, a die hard one if you will, even to the point 
 of setting up tournaments at my bar on a Sunday evening just so I'd have some noobs to destroy 
 with the mighty Fulham... ah blissful days. However with PES6 came a slow realisation that with 
 shoddy A. I comes a sub par football simulation, and I stress the word simulation. FIFA08 is the 
 nut's, it's hard as hell (make sure you turn off any assistance, your a man for Christ's sake) 
 and you have to actually play FOOTBALL to get the maximum enjoyment. There's no 60 yard runs from 
 your left back to nail a scorcher because you mastered the skills buttons, this is simulation, 
 you have to switch flanks, build 20 pass moves, hold up play, make a cutting through pass and then 
 deftly drop the ball onto the head of Brian McBride... If you can, I still can't and I've done a 
 whole season in the manager mode. With the assistance on it's a relatively easy game but you may 
 as well be playing PES. The manager mode is in depth and forces you to learn the skills each player 
 needs to suit your game, a team of pacemen aka Denmark in PES wont win you games by speed alone, 
 although naturally it helps. To those who have stated there is no international, check out the 
 tournament creation section ( you get 20g just for making one) you'll find the nations are there 
 but not all have proper names. The presentation is nice, as you'd expect , the music is tasteless, 
 naturally but I have to say the gameplay is top class. Overall if you like a quick game to play 
 with your mates, PES is probably for you but if you actually know football and seek to use all 
 the skills you never could in real life then buy this game and stick with it, you won't be dissapointed. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: liamstack151
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 30, 2007 5:35 am PT
Review:  Now before I begin let me make it clear that I have always hated FIFA, and my ideal footballing 
 game dream has always been Pro-Evo gameplay combined with FIFA's presentation in all its licenced 
 glory. I have always hoped in some warped out way that EA would one day manage to poach the game 
 designers at Konami and I would have my perfect footballing game. I have owned every copy of Pro-Evo 
 since its beginnings and have always purchased a copy of FIFA now and again as I am a sucker for 
 the presentation. FIFA always dissapointed and PES always delivered, and provided some hardcore 
 gaming hours over the years, I even purchased the PC version last year knowing that there would 
 be mods that would satisfy my licence urges, and it did because FIFA was so bad. This year I decided 
 I would give FIFA a try knowing that EA would have all the smaller team etc in it, but also knowing 
 I would most likely end up purchasing PES 08 in October, and in the meantime I also took the opportunity 
 to download the demo of PES 08. Now this is something that I NEVER thought I would write or even 
 say out loud (PES fans please take note as I have always been one of you!!!) FIFA absolutely wipes 
 the floor with PES, and this is why;
  
  The simple answer is: PES08 arcade, FIFA simulation. Now previously I would have had PES down as 
 a simulation of the beauitful game and FIFA as neither as it has never been fun or responsive in 
 any form to actually enjoy it. PES08 has made me realise (or more FIFA08 has!) just how much PES 
 has gone in the arcade direction, all the passes goto feet, the players run around like they are 
 on speed and not realistically either, and I cant describe it, but it is just very, very unrealistic, 
 the presentation is still old and the gameplay has moved completely in wrong direction, but FIFA... oh 
 my god, this is the game! Now dont get me wrong its not without its faults the Manager mode is 
 still a little rough round the edges and the transfer system very messy as the AI is signing amazing 
 players to small clubs etc, but the gameplay is just well, the best footie gaming experince out 
 there, now heed my words to understand where I am coming from you MUST turn off all assistance 
 in settings, and then master it and play it, yes it is tough at first but I can remember thinking 
 that I hated the first PES at first as it was tough to play after playing years of stick to your 
 feet FIFA games! Practice makes perfect and once you do this game is the best bar none, seriously! 
 The first night I had it I thought here we go FIFA again, it was so frustrating, but I stuck at 
 it, and I seriously LOVE this game, the controls are responsive, and it IS simply football, build 
 up, carving out chances, patience etc. Cant praise it enough I really cant, and as I have said 
 there are faults, but this time EA have the gameplay spot on, and I would suggest that they keep 
 the game engine for the next FIFA and simply work at getting all the game modes completely right, 
 and then we have it the perfect footballing game, this is a game you MUST stick with, play and 
 practice in the same way that PES made you all those years ago, and you too will come to love it, 
 I promise (from one of the BIGGEST PES fans there ever was! And to was is a shame!) it will not 
 let you down. Finally EA have presented me (almost) with my perfect football gaming dream, maybe 
 they did kidnap the Konami developers after all, because if the Demo is how PES08 plays then unfortunately 
 they have appeared to have gone AWOL in amazing fashion, I will not be purchasing this years PES 
 which is my first EVER year not to, and I will look to see if they learn anything from this year 
 and improve next year, but I feel they will not because the loyal fan base (once me) will not purchase 
 FIFA08 or try and stick with it (ignore all the reviews about through balls and non-responsiveness, 
 they simply have not turned off the pass assistance settings, you MUST turn this off to manual 
 to eventually enjoy this game or at least set it to Semi at first but through balls MUST be set 
 to manual!!!) , and therefore PES will pretty much just be the same game next year. But I urge all 
 those PES fans who dismiss all the FIFA lovers and FIFA itself do so at your peril this year, and 
 also bear in mind this is the FIRST review I have ever written on Gamespot (Been member since 2002) , 
 that is how much this has shocked me, mark my words PES has been my favourite gaming experince 
 for every year since its inception, I am sad to say it is no longer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xantiriad
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 30, 2007 4:53 am PT
Review:  For the last 6 years the two football franchises, FIFA and Pro Evolution Soccer, have been in annual 
 competition with each other. PES was always the choice of the football purists, whilst FIFA was 
 the game of the masses - with it license and star names. The next generation consoles gave Konami 
 and EA a chance to change and improve the football genre, which had become a by-word in minimal 
 annual updates. It has taken 2 years, but finally there is a football game worthy of the title 
 next gen. The surprise is that it is FIFA 08!
  
  Having played and enjoyed every PES since ISS64 on the N64, I have often looked at EAs FIFA with 
 a sense of disappointment and indifference. Sure, they had the licenced names, and a good sound 
 track, but the match engine was stuck in the 90s and there was too much emphasis on dribbling and 
 shooting - the ball magically sticking to your feet. FIFA just wasnt football. Last year PES 2007 
 was released with much fanfare, but for me it just seemed like a graphical update on the 5 year 
 old game. It still played fine, but little gimmicks that had plague FIFA were starting to creep 
 in -the number of button combinations could now be measured in the 50s- and it was feature sparse: the 
 solo play game modes were uninspired; the online options were even worse; features in the Xbox 
 version had been stripped out; and the Xbox Live matches suffered bad lag. PES was starting to 
 feel more like an arcade cabinet football game, with minimal features, rather than a next gen 
 iteration of a much loved franchise. Earlier this year EA released UEFA Champions League that featuring 
 a brand new match engine where the ball, rather than the player, was the central object. The change 
 and improvement was remarkable. EA had finally produced a game that looked and played like real 
 football. Gone were the gimmicky controls, and in came a simple control scheme, excellent ball 
 physics and tons of fun. It also introduced a number of innovations (such as Card Collecting) and 
 some excellent lag free online modes. Now with FIFA08, EA has perfected the engine to create what 
 is definitely a next gen football game. The match engine is now almost flawless, and plays so 
 much better than I would have expected. If anything FIFA has become a football simulator - the 
 quality of the physics and game engine is really that good - you might actually think you are watching 
 a televised game. FIFA 08 rewards slow tactical build-up and quality passing game, rather than 
 the headless chicken running of yesteryear. Thus, for football purists, FIFA is now the game of 
 choice.
  
  FIFA 08 also features a number of excellent solo and online game modes, several of which are new. 
 The best of these modes are listed below: + Online Club Tournament - you play as your club and 
 all the results of all the XBL players playing as your club contribute to an overall club leader 
 board.
  + Managerial Mode - you manage and play for the team. You have transfers, sponsorship, press, contracts, 
 the whole lot!
  Challenge Mode - match challenges in both team and Be the Pro modes
  Custom Tournaments - FIFAs version of Halos Forge mode - construct competitions and post them 
 on XBL
  
  Be the Pro, a feature in other EA Sports titles this year, is simply brilliant. You control just 
 one player, and you must play your position as a part of the team. Through clever use of the camera 
 and adaption of the match engine you really do feel part of the game - even to the point when you 
 call for a through ball and get angry with the computer for not picking you out!
  
  The presentation in FIFA 08, normally the strong point, is actually the weakness in this version. 
 Clearly EA has concentrated on the important stuff, like the match engine and be the pro, and 
 spent less time polishing. The graphics are fine, but the character models are quite ugly up close, 
 and Id wish EA Sports would ditch the stupid menu system they use on all their games. I also uncovered 
 a rather nasty bug where my online match was played against invisible players - I managed a draw 
 some how!
  
  So FIFA 08 has become the best football simulator on the Xbox360: it has tones of features; 
 some excellent new innovations; and a real sense of next gen quality in its scope and play. There 
 still is a place for the arcade like immediacy of PES, and I could see some people owning both 
 to get the best of both worlds. However, I will get my arcade kicks from Sensible Soccer and so 
 it is FIFA 08 that will now sit in the disc tray when I want a football fix.
  
  For: Match engine; loads of replay value &amp; features; Be the Pro; online integration
  Against: 
 Some bugs; clumsy menu system; dodgy character models
  
  Gameplay: 9 - the best match engine yet
  Presentation: 7 - good enough
  Design: 9 - excellent 
 new modes, good XBL integration
  Story: 8 - challenge and managerial modes provide structure and rewards
  
  Overall: 8/10 - 
 FIFA 08 has become the best football simulator on the Xbox 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: airbt
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 29, 2007 8:48 pm PT
Review:  Firstly after having read other reviews (on other sites giving this an 8) and their tendency to 
 keep complaining about how hard it is to score, i have to say... watch a real football game. I cant 
 get over this years fifa. Its the best soccer game ive ever played. Too real most say? Havent we 
 all been looking for the best simulation soccer/football game?
  
  Gameplay-I was disappointed with fifa 07. no skill tricks when playing with Christiano Ronaldo. 
 Now doing step overs in the flank and the satisfaction of passing a SMART ASS AI defender... so 
 pleasing. Scoring goals is difficult and i love it. PLaying FIFA07 scoring 8 goals or mor made 
 me frustrated of how blind the goalies were. Now they dive and save the ball with such finnesse 
 and realsim, it frustrates me in a good way. When i eventually scored with Tevez with 10min to 
 go i jumped out of my seat. Manual passing is hard but awesome. placing the perfect pass requires 
 a heap of timing and patience.
  
  Modes-Be a pro! wat a mode this is. no doubt, for me anyway, being a midfielder is satisfying. 
 getting majority of the ball and possibly scoring is great. Oh and the camera angle... Gears to 
 the max when your running. Last year there were hardly any leagues. Now that theyve added practically 
 everything, even the A-league here in AUS, i was extatic. I can finally start a parallel season 
 with sydney fc (who are struggling right now btw... come on junhinio damnit) . Oh and tournament mode. 
 I can finally imitate the world cup without buying the game.
  
  Ambience-the sound in the game i unbelievable. at times repetitive but the most realistic commentary 
 ever. Music is the usual earo sound. Even an Aussie band in their. go CAT EMPIRE.
  
  Graphics-REALLY good. Not 100%. but really good. Some players look like they gained a few pounds 
 in the off season but eh we all do. Rooney looks like a troll though. Oh and have you seen Henry's 
 eyes in the game? looks like he saw a ghost.
  
  Overall-Fully Sick. simple as that not much to complain aobut. Simply Brilliant 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wheelysteve
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 29, 2007 7:44 pm PT
Review:  Do you remember back in the day, when all a football game required you to do was figure out the 
 kinks in its gameplay, exploit them, and then master them, eventually resulting in you mastering 
 the game and boasting to your mates that you just beat Man U 10 - 0 in the final on the hardest 
 difficulty? Well those days, my footy loving friend, have been relegated, FIFA 08 is here, and 
 my god.... it's tough.
  
  Now, the fact that this game is tough is for a few reasons, and unfortunately not all of them deserve 
 praise, though lets start with the positives. Gone are the days of just going for the same type 
 of goal again and again resulting in a massacre of epic proportions that in the real world would 
 see every player transfer listed the next day; now you have to stroke the ball about realistically, 
 plan your attack ahead and then just hope it works, and even when you get in the box, you cant 
 just hit it home, youve got to position yourself right and get the timing of the shot spot on, 
 or its a wasted opportunity, which waves bye bye to the arcade style of old. A brilliant premise 
 at first, but when you play a few matches a sense of anger begins to build up within you. But wait 
 why? This is what youve always wanted, a football game where you cant just hoof the ball route 
 one, Sam Allardyce style, and knock it in with your strikers, its brilliant, right? Erwell no 
 actually, see, heres the thing. The difficulty would be good IF it was because of general football 
 reasons, but its not, half of the reason this is so goddam hard in the first place is the controls, 
 scenario example:
  
  Youve just collected the ball from a goalkeepers throw and are stroking it around the back four, 
 time for an attack, you think, and so you begin to look for that cutting pass, the one to unlock 
 the defence, that magical touch of the likes Cristiano Ronaldo performs weekly that makes Andy 
 Grays eyes happy, but youre going to be waiting a while, because its not coming. Passing isnt 
 really a skill in FIFA 08, more a hit and hope affair, because a quarter of the time the ball just 
 wont be hit right, a quarter of the time the opposing player will just mockingly step in to your 
 pass as if hes Psycho Mantis, and a quarter of the time your pad will be nice and make the decision 
 for you that its a bad pass and will choose just not to perform said desired act, and when this 
 is the case with every pass it can get a bit tedious, ok I lie very tedious. But lets just say 
 for a minute you DO string together enough passes to get into the final third, then what? Well, 
 for some reason in FIFA 08, whether the defenders are playing for Morecambe or Real Madrid, it 
 doesnt seem to matter much  because every AI controlled defender in the game has obviously had 
 training lessons from Paulo Maldini and could mark a bloody Ferrit out of the game if needs be; 
 when Grimbsy Town can thwart your counter attacks and form a defensive formation quicker than a 
 Ronaldinho step-over, something is seriously wrong with the balance of the AI in my opinion.
  
  Now dont get me wrong, Im not moaning like some reviewers that this game is bad because its 
 hard, thats a good thing, but its just not hard for the right reasons, it almost feels as if 
 EA have tried to make this game harder but gotten desperate and thrown together anything they can 
 to stop the ball making its way through to the goalie, let alone the net. As for the trick system, 
 well its ok when youre playing as Ronaldinho or whoever in the menu and youre only one on one 
 with a goalkeeper that is. But in practice, when its 11 vs. 11 in a (very) tight game of attempted 
 pass, missed tackle and anger, the tricks quickly become nul and void, unless of course you just 
 get some odd thrill from seeing your players losing the ball in slightly more flamboyant ways. 
 Oh yes, and I nearly forgot, this year you dont just have to play as Ronaldinho on the menu, you 
 can do it IN AN ACTUAL MATCH!!! Oh happy days.
  
  Of course, Im talking about Be A Pro mode, EAs new gimmick that they aim to take totally online 
 next year with 11 vs. 11 play (or 10 vs. 10 Id presume, or else I feel sorry for the poor bugger 
 who gets put in between the sticks every game) . As for in FIFA 08, there is a thing called offline 
 training, which is effectively just a friendly match, in which you can hone your skills until 
 you get to run around with 22 other lunatics all totally out of position like theyre back on the 
 school field, oh what fun thats going to be. For now though, despite only being a glorified friendly 
 mode, it is very fresh, and once youve grasped the initial idea of playing your role and have 
 stopped charging about like a five year old on his sixth glass of Coke (you will do, trust me) , 
 its also quite rewarding, even if a little odd to see a carbon copy of the Gears of War roadie 
 cam in effect when you make a dart with the ball.
  
  And ladies and gentlemen thats about it, in a gameplay sense anyway. Theres a ton of online features 
 but Im sure you know about them already, and all the expected modes and options are here. So in 
 a nutshell, FIFA 08, is it worth the wait? Well, it looks great, sounds great, the animations are 
 great, the pace for a realistic football match is spot on, its just a shame there are some really 
 stand out elements that hinder the success of what finally could have been (and what could still 
 be) a Pro Evo beater. Maybe next year, EA will finally score the golden goal. Theyre not quite 
 there yet, but theyre getting much, much closer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _Legendkiller_
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 29, 2007 4:55 pm PT
Review:  Well another year of Fifa, Will this year be good enough for me to change my opinion of it? well 
 when i first started playing i thought yeah this is ok... Until i found the be a pro feature which 
 by its self is amazing! if PES had this it would never be beaten! but then i played manager mode 
 and when i played i look at how the players ran and realised they ran so life like, Something pro 
 doesn't do.
  
  Pros:
  - Be a pro Feature
  - Players run life like
  
  Cons
  - Be a pro is ofline training 
::::::

::::::
UserName: antyoung
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 29, 2007 1:22 am PT
Review:  Another year for Fifa, and still not quite there. Much better than last years version. better controls, 
 better visuals, nice selection of game modes. BUT why oh why only a off line training for Be A 
 Pro?? If this was in the full season mode then Fifa 08 would be completely revolutionary and knock 
 Pro Evo of the top spot. Still it is fun to play, hard but with practice it can be mastered. Just 
 cant stop thinking that if EA included Be a Pro Mode in the full season game than things would 
 be so so different. Any way I will still be playing it and enjoying taking Liverpool to the top 
 of English Football. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Carbojnr14
Rating: 5.5
Date: Sep 28, 2007 5:03 pm PT
Review:  Yes i received fifa 08 in the post thursday morning with great anticipation that i'd be finally 
 expecting a 'for once' decent fifa game. The first thing i noticed was that you are greeted with 
 Ronaldinho facing a goal. So you could have a little kick about, and learn all the skills before 
 you start the main game. But as soon as i started manager mode i kept on getting extremely frustrated 
 with the game play. The gameplay is incredibly slow, and being a fanatic football fan you'd expect 
 the gameplay to have a bit of fluency to it. But it's not, the players take ages responsing to 
 any passes, which prevents any fluid passing movements from happening. The throughball is useless 
 as they get cut out everytime, which means you have to work your way to goal. Which you can't, 
 because it's impossible to take any player on, so this means you have to use skills right? No, 
 it's even harder to pull off a successful skill. The only thing i like about this version is the 
 'Be a pro' mode, in which you control any player of your choice, and you must stay in the position 
 to gain your player rating. Overall this version will not contend with Pro evo, not a chance. And 
 i cant really believe all of these fifa fans when they say this will be their year. No way. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: adrian7hall
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 28, 2007 8:11 am PT
Review:  Fifa... funny how when people used to mention to me that the new fifa is due out I used to laugh 
 out loud as it has consistently been over hyped. Promised the world, and delivered nothing. Last 
 year I thought at first Fifa had broke the mould, and actually owned Fifa 07 on both the XBOX 360 
 and the PS2, but I also owned PES 6 on both also - and in the end decided that the next gen games 
 were just both dreadful. Needless to say, I expected more of the same this year round - but I remanined 
 hopeful for Fifa on the next gen.
  
  Having recieved the demo about 2 weeks back, I was overawed with the graphics and the new engine 
 that the game was given. This made me eagerly anticipate its release. It arrived yesterday morning 
 whilst I was at work. I just had to take a 1 hour dinner break to try it out!!
  
  Wow, am I glad I did this. I was completely blown away by the level of depth in the game. Coming 
 from Hartlepool England (Where??? You say!!) I was buzzing to hear that my local team was on the 
 game. So I put them in a friendly, vs some Irish team (wow, Irish teams are even on the game!!) . 
 Right from the off, it just felt like football. Some sloppy passes, dodgy positioning, terrible 
 shooting - just like real life!! Thats not a negative review, its great that it was accurate like 
 this! The commentary was smooth, the stadiums and player graphics looked exceptional, all in all 
 I was very pleased.
  
  I tried then a game with Man Utd to see if the skill levels increased - wow do they, hugely! Ronaldo 
 was able to burst past three or four players with pace and close control, Rooney and Vidic strong 
 on the ball - it was just a magnificent feeling to play it.
  
  Aside from gameplay and graphics, I had a brief spell on manager mode last night. They have real 
 currencies on, but its naff in the sence that player values are all over the place. They had Patrice 
 Evra valued at &pound;1 million, he is arguably the best left back in the county and would demand 
 at least &pound;10 million if United were to sell. Also, the Charity Shield was played at Stamford 
 Bridge - erm its usually WEMBLEY fifa!! As such I havent had chance to see whether the rumours 
 about the dodgy FA cup dates were right, however I simulated an FA Cup and I can confirm sadly 
 that in the Semi Finals it was Man Utd v Wrexham and Liverpool v Swansea (thankfully United and 
 Liverpool got through) so Im a little dissappointed in Fifa for this.
  
  Be a Pro mode at first was fun, but I must admit I got a little bored of it after a while. The 
 fact that you can ask for a pass from anywhere on the pitch and your players will punt the ball 
 to you is just a terrible feature, and also things like challenging for headers is made near impossible, 
 so for me its a work in progress. Also, why is it only available in friendlies?? I thought Be a 
 Pro was all about Career football??
  
  Online - fantastic. I played against a Birmingham City fan last night and he was a great sport. 
 Seen the game out till the end, I won 2-0 with two cracking goals after some heavy pressure. There 
 is no lag whatsoever. My only gripe online however was that whenever I tried to play a ranked or 
 unranked game, I was faced with the message You must update the squads over and over again, followed 
 by The Game Sessions Isnt Available . Im sure a patch will fix this in time.
  
  Overall, pleased so far. A few glitches that are annoying, but overall the gameplay is good enough. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lovets
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 28, 2007 7:33 am PT
Review:  ive always wanted a game with great presentation and licences with fun but realistic gameplay now 
 its came its called fifa 08! well first to say the graphics look suberb one of the best ive ever 
 seen! also the sound of the crowd and commentary is so lifelike. ok first fifa is a game now that 
 you have to be patient like real football evrey goal is apreicated and satifiying and worked hard 
 for. it may be frustrating and boring to get that first goal but eventurly you will get better 
 and it will realy fun. at first it looks like a typical fifa sluggish gameplay when you first pick 
 it up but then you start to know its aturly fast paced but realistic paced, fifa 07 came close 
 to getting the pace right but now fifa 08 has hit the spot. also evrey team and league and formation 
 makes a huge difference, realy you want to look for a team that suits your gameplay, say your a 
 manu fan but you dont suit how they play, then change another team or learn to play with them. 
 i do support spurs but i like man u i try to play with them and they dont suit with me i play awfull 
 with them, but fortunatly with spurs i suit the mi play realy well with them. aslo the players 
 all feel unique and they all run and feel different, so when you make subs they could make a huge 
 difference to the team, the animations are great as well they run like the do in real life like 
 eg berbertov it looks like him running
  
  there are some bad points though, like there should have been much more staduims for a next gen 
 game theres less than the ps2 which is disapointing, and you will play in the same staduim so many 
 times beacuse its most of the teams default staduims, its anoying. also theres no weather effects 
 and the ps2 has. theres some things that ea have been a bit lazy on but i have to give an aception 
 this year beacuse theve put a lot of hard work into the gameplay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FalconerX
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 28, 2007 4:50 am PT
Review:  Firstly i have to be honest here, i used to hate fifa and hadent played one since 2002. Im a huge 
 pro evo fan and bought that every year.
  Reason i looked at fifa in the first place was because after playing the new pro evo 08 demo it 
 had became clear Konami had done what fifa used to do, just release the same game as the previous 
 year with a few updates.
  
  It was the faults of the new pro evo that made me see it had gone into the realms of arcade, it 
 was no longer about ball control, it was no longer about working spaces and looking for weaknesses, 
 it was no longer real!
  Pro evo had done what fifa had done for so long, forget why people like football games.
  
  
 With this horrible truth i downloaded the fifa demo, expecting for it to be as horrible as ever 
 and if anything make pro evo look a little better!
  Boy was i wrong!
  
  Soon as the game loaded i saw what must be the best presentation ever! A neat little game were 
 you play as Ronaldiniho and you have a goal to shoot at! I was hooked!
  
  Playing the game for the first time i have to admit at first i didnt like it, i was stuck in my 
 old pro evo ways, not accepting it, hating simply because it was the enemy! But a few games into 
 it i realised something...
  
  Id been playing real football! I was passing the ball around the defenders looking for a gap to 
 get it to the midfielders, then with the midfielders passing and moving until i could get it to 
 a striker. It wasent a 3 button press combo that took all os 2 secconds like on pro evo, then it 
 dawned on me!
  
  Football is hard! The game isnt about how many goals you can score, most games finish in a draw 
 or maybe 1-0 or 2-0, football is end to end but not end to end and GOAL like in pro evo. There 
 are so many battles on the pitch to fight, wether that be the winger trying to run the flanks, 
 the defensive midfielder moving into space to help give a player options and so on.
  The thing you notice about fifa is its hard to score, you cant replicate the same goal as before 
 and you cant run from your own penalty box to your opponents and score, Which again made me realise 
 i can do that on pro evo but not here!
  
  After about 7 games i became obsessed with trying to score a goal, the computer AI is excellent, 
 you can see it adapting to your style of play, if your a cross from the wings type they will pick 
 up on it and double up on your winger, if your a burst through from midfield type player the midfield 
 and defence close up on you to restrict you going forward. Its the little things like that which 
 make me appreciate the game.
  
  Finally i recieved the ball from Ronaldo just outside the 18yrd box and with a thunderous shot 
 in off the top of the bar i had scored my first goal!! It was a paul scholes special! It was a 
 great feeling, it was the first time in my entire history of playing football games from the early 
 kick off to the classic sensible soccer that i had felt like that, i earnt that goal as i had to 
 work for it.
  Thas realism!
  
  Fifa08 is a troubled genius of a game, it pushes the control aspects of the ball to amazing heights, 
 EA have listened to what people want and thats a replication of the game we call football. It delivers 
 that with extras. All round fifa 08 is by far the most realistic, exciting, difficult, skillful 
 football game ive played.
  
  After playing fifa i then had a look again at pes08 and felt angry at it, i felt angry its the 
 same game, angry it plays so unrealistic and that you can run from one end to the other as your 
 goak keeper and pretty much score at will, angry that ronaldinhio was on the bench for brazil, 
 angry the defence dont even move, angry the shoot system is dumb, the game is just a rip off of 
 last year which wasent even good. Angry the features and presentation are so old and havent been 
 updated in a long time. Its just old, and the thing that angered me the most is people will still 
 say its great!
  Like lemmings to the cliff they will follow the leader, they will slate fifa because its too hard, 
 so fifa will be slated for being too realistic when it used to be slated for being too arcadey. 
 Where as pro evo can release the same game but sped up to be the most arcade game in history but 
 be applauded but fifa cant?
  And that there my friends is the problem, weve become biased, weve not given fifa a chance.
  
 
  Ea have come back with more features then ever introducing for the first time Be a Pro. This by 
 far is the next best thing for football fans. You play a game as one person on the pitch, you play 
 the game as that player should play his role wether defender, midfielder or striker, your given 
 instructions from the manager, its very realistic, and the best thing of all is you can do it ONLINE! 
 Thats right you and your buddies can pick a player each and play online games/tournaments as one 
 player each!
  
  There are so many great features in fifa 08 that you need to play it to see them, its a game that 
 needs time to grow on you and you need to see what pro evo really is this year.
  
  Fifa is pushing the bar and trying to make the game real, i applaud ea on this years fifa and though 
 im sure reviews for it will be lowish they are from people who dont know football at all.
  
  Fifa 08 is for real fans who love the game and appreciate the skillfulness of it! 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
