-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: FIFA World Cup: Germany 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/xbox360/sports/fifaworldcupgermany2006/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Excellent soundtrack and good commentary.
 Fast-paced gameplay.
 Great player animations and TV-style presentation.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Lacks the other versions' FIFA lounge mode.
 Poor goalkeepers.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: May  5, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.2
Critic Score: 7.4, 55 Review (s)
User Score: 8.1, 1,858 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Electronic Arts
Developer: EA Canada
Genre: Soccer Sim
Date: Apr 24, 2006
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
2006 FIFA World Cup does a good job of re-creating the carnival atmosphere that surrounds the competition, 
 and is a significant improvement over its 360 predecessor. 

  A little over five weeks from now, the 2006 FIFA World Cup will kick off in Munich when the tournament's 
 German hosts take on Costa Rica. Recent player injuries are already providing plenty of pre-tournament 
 drama, but if you really want to get your experience under way a month ahead of time, you can claim 
 the FIFA World Cup Trophy for your country in EA Sports' 2006 FIFA World Cup. EA Canada's latest 
 football offering does a good job of re-creating the carnival atmosphere that surrounds every World 
 Cup competition, and although the Xbox 360 game still lacks some of the best features from its 
 PlayStation 2 and Xbox counterparts, it's a much easier game to recommend than last year's FIFA 
 06: Road to FIFA World Cup.  

          The prematch presentation does a great job of setting the stage.     

  Gameplay options 
 in 2006 FIFA World Cup include quick matches, online play, practice sessions, and penalty shoot-outs. 
 In addition to those football game staples, you also get global challenge scenarios and, of course, 
 a chance to guide your favorite international team through the World Cup competition. The World 
 Cup mode will almost certainly be your first port of call, and although its default settings see 
 you assuming control of one of the 32 teams that qualified for the finals, it's possible to play 
 as any of around 125 different teams from all over the world. Furthermore, you have the option 
 to take your chosen team through the relevant territory's qualification process or to jump straight 
 to the last 32 teams using real or randomly generated group information.  

  The presentation throughout the World Cup mode, and throughout the entire game, is great. Before 
 each match you'll see a camera, which is positioned somewhere in orbit around the Earth, zoom in 
 on the appropriate German stadium, and then you'll be treated to flybys of the grounds where it 
 looks like almost every supporter in the crowd came through the turnstiles armed with streamers, 
 confetti, and balloons. You'll also get to listen to one of the game's many licensed songs, which 
 come from an eclectic soundtrack spanning some 14 countries. Good pre-match commentary replete 
 with World Cup trivia and anecdotes is the icing on the cake, and as your players line up on the 
 pitch before kickoff, you feel both excited and nervous at the same time -- exactly as you'd expect 
 to before a real match.  

  Perhaps the easiest way to give you some idea of how much FIFA football on the Xbox 360 has improved 
 since last year's game would be to state that 2006 FIFA World Cup plays more like FIFA 06 than 
 the disappointment that was FIFA 06: Road to FIFA World Cup. 2006 FIFA World Cup for the Xbox 360 
 still doesn't feel quite as tight as the PS2 and Xbox games of the same name, but it's not far 
 off, and it doesn't suffer from any of the awful slowdown issues that those two do. The Xbox 360 
 game plays the same fast-paced style of football that you'll find in other versions, but its ball 
 physics are slightly less convincing, its players are less proactive off-the-ball (though you always 
 have the option to send them on forward runs manually) , and the match commentary, while very good 
 for the most part, is more repetitive and less accurate.  

  It's not difficult to score often spectacular goals in FIFA, largely because the game's keepers 
 aren't too clever, but they can still be very satisfying. And if you're playing on the correct 
 difficulty level or against a suitable opponent, you'll inevitably still have goalless draws from 
 time to time. The player animations are uniformly excellent, and although every player on the pitch 
 has a handful of skill moves at his disposal, you'll find that good use of the excellent first-touch 
 controls along with passes, through balls, and dummies are generally the best way to beat opponents. 
 The controls on the Xbox 360 are largely unchanged since last year's game, and you still have the 
 option to switch between a traditional FIFA control setup and one that will be more familiar to 
 fans of Konami's Pro Evolution Soccer/Winning Eleven games.  

          The game's player animations are excellent.     

  As you progress through the World 
 Cup, you'll inevitably earn points by fulfilling some of the 200-plus objectives that the game 
 tracks for your profile. These objectives include beating certain teams, winning by a certain number 
 of goals, scoring at different stages of matches, winning streaks, and lots more. It's unfortunate 
 that these objectives don't translate into achievements on the Xbox 360, but the handful of achievements 
 that the game offers are at least somewhat challenging. The points that you're awarded for completing 
 objectives can be spent at the game's store, which stocks more than 20 classic players, loads of 
 Adidas balls, 10 classic strips, and five "AI unlockables" -- those being additional options for 
 perfect difficulty, invisible walls, no infringements, slow motion, and turbo mode. The unlockables 
 are a little disappointing, not only because the different balls are barely noticeable during gameplay, 
 but also because the classic player and classic strip options are so limited. The 10 classic strips, 
 for example, include only two each for five different European teams, and although the classic 
 players all deserve their places in the game, it's not hard to think of dozens more who are conspicuous 
 by their absence. It's barely worth mentioning, but the Xbox 360 game also lacks all of the unlockable 
 licensed boots from Nike, Umbro, and Adidas that are present in the PS2 and Xbox games.  

  You can also earn points to spend at the store by playing 2006 FIFA World Cup's global challenge 
 mode, which basically tasks you with matching or bettering memorable team performances from World 
 Cup history in 40 different scenarios. Your major objective might be to jump into a game with 30 
 minutes remaining and win by the same margin that the victors did in real life, for example. And 
 bonus objectives might include keeping a clean sheet, not having any players booked, or winning 
 by a larger margin. You'll be awarded a bronze, silver, or gold medal based on your performance 
 in each scenario, along with a corresponding number of points. The global challenge mode is a great 
 addition to the game, but it's unfortunate that none of the appropriate historical strips or players 
 are present, and also that the post-scenario commentary invariably reflects upon the game as if 
 it were a 2006 match. One of the scenarios, for example, tasks you with taking control of Scotland 
 and beating the Netherlands by at least three goals in the group stage of the 1978 tournament in 
 order to progress to the second round. Scotland came home from Argentina early after managing only 
 a 3-2 win in real life, but if you achieve that same result in the scenario, the players, the crowd, 
 and the commentary team will react as if you've just earned yourself a spot in the last 16, regardless 
 of the fact that you failed to fulfill any of the challenge's objectives.  

  When you feel like pitting your 2006 FIFA World Cup skills against a human opponent instead of 
 the CPU, you can either get some friends over or play online. The Xbox 360 game lacks the excellent 
 FIFA lounge mode that other versions enjoy, unfortunately, and also doesn't support "quick tournament" 
 play online. If you choose to play online, you'll find that 2006 FIFA World Cup uses an outdated 
 lobby system, with rooms where you can, in theory, find players of similar ability or who are from 
 your region. In reality, at least based on our own experiences thus far, there are rarely enough 
 players online simultaneously for this system to work properly, and you're better off either going 
 into the same room that every other player is in or simply hitting the quick-match option. You 
 can also choose to create or search for matches with certain criteria if you want to play games 
 of a certain length, for example.  

          The historical scenario games can only be played with current teams.     

  The quality 
 of your online experience with 2006 FIFA World Cup can vary quite wildly with each opponent, not 
 because of the way they behave, but because the game's lag is different every time. We invariably 
 found that our online matches kicked off relatively free of lag, but got worse as the game progressed. 
 For the most part the lag never got so bad that the game was rendered unplayable, but there were 
 one or two occasions when quitting out prematurely and getting a DNF (did not finish) black mark 
 next to our profile looked like a tempting option.  

  With very little in the way of competition, 2006 FIFA World Cup is undoubtedly the best football 
 game available for the Xbox 360 at this point. Since the PS2 and Xbox games suffer from obnoxious 
 slowdown, this game doesn't feel like a poor relation alongside its namesakes, though opting for 
 the Xbox 360 game does mean that you'll miss out on a few features and gameplay refinements. If 
 you're in the market for a World Cup game or simply for an Xbox 360 football game that doesn't 
 suck, 2006 FIFA World Cup is the way to go. If you can live without all of the excellent World 
 Cup presentation and 480p HD visuals, though, then you're still better off with last year's FIFA 
 06 on the PS2 or Xbox.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (135 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: LatinG187
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 13, 2008 3:21 pm PT
Review:  I tend to play lots of soccer games trying to get into it but laetly I've just been disappointed. 
 That changes with FIFA World Cup 06. This game is so much fun to play, even to this day, being 
 2 plus years old. I still go back and play this game. 
  
  As for graphics, they look great, the presentation is wonderful and it honestly does make you feel 
 apart of the World Cup. They really nailed the atmosphere and pagentry of the World Cup.
  
  Gameplay is good enough for veteran players to find a challenge but also simple enough for rookie 
 players to pick up and learn the controls. Playing on rookie, you should be able to win matches 
 while you learn the controls and rules of the game. On harder difficulties, you'll have to use 
 defensive strategies and offensive gameplans to hang with the other team. Whichever level of difficulty 
 is fit for you, scoring a goal on FIFA World Cup is a good feeling. You feel like you've actually 
 earned that goal.
  
  The sound is very well done, the commentary is very nice and adds more for the feel of tha game. 
 The soundtrack is also pretty good, I'm not really into a lot of the music in the soundtrack but 
 it just fits the game so well, it just works.
  
  Overall, FIFA World Cup 06 is a great game even 2 plus years after its original release. There 
 are other soccer games since this one has been released that are great games as well but I keep 
 coming back to this one. Great game and a lot of fun.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: killuminati4181
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 9, 2008 4:15 pm PT
Review:  2006 FIFA World Cup should be a football fans dream game. It holds over 100 national teams from 
 all continents (Africa, Asia, Europe, and America) . It boasts a Winning Eleven style game play 
 and amazing graphics. The A. I is a little off and some of the stadium looks terrible, but all in 
 all it's passable. The stadiums and crowds sounds it's about average. The commentating on the game 
 is really below sports game standards (still don't understand why I can't have my commentary in 
 another language other then English and Spanish) . The qualification tournament is excellent; you 
 can loose your whole afternoon playing with friends. Overall the game is a keeper until the next 
 world cup, if you're a FIFA or Winning Eleven fan then this game is around your alley. Oh almost 
 forgot, the online is not much to talk about and the in game music is ok. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drago709
Rating: 6.5
Date: Aug 10, 2008 8:52 am PT
Review:  Unfortunately, for a game that should be of high quality, this game was a complete letdown. It 
 did have its good points though, for example, the graphics during the cutscenes were top quality, 
 and the actual layout of the game was quite good.
  You can choose from a large quantity of teams and either decide to qualify for the world cup or 
 just go straight through to the group stages. Gameplay is absolutely terrible. The graphics are 
 mediocre and the opponents A. I. is stupid at best. To be honest, there isn't much good to be said 
 about this game.
  There is only 5 achievements available which doesn't give the hardcore gamer much of a challenge, 
 and three of the five you get just by one play through of the tournament. Unfortunately for the 
 gaming world, this game was created. Lets hope one like it is never made again 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mr-Elijo
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 3, 2008 11:04 pm PT
Review:  I am an extreme soccer fan... I absolutely love to watch and play soccer but one thing I never quite 
 understood was playing soccer video games.... I figure if you want to play soccer then go out and 
 play it. I saw this game at Target for $20 so I thought what the hell and I decided to buy it. 
 I was actually quite impressed with the addictive game play and the soundtrack was indeed very 
 funky. 
  
  One thing that really annoyed me was the annoying control scheme. The A button is pass but it is 
 also the button for changing players... I found this very annoying because if you want to run on 
 to the ball and then pass it to another player; if you tap pass even a microsecond out of time 
 then it will change you to another player and the ball will no doubt be taken off you.
  
  I also found it annoying when you got to pass it... if you accidentally (or purposely for that matter) 
 tap pass twice; the ball go to the player then he will immediately just randomly kick the ball 
 into space and there is absolutely nothing you can do about it. 
  
  Aside from the annoying control scheme (being the only negative about this game) I found that this 
 is generally a very good game and even non-soccer lovers will enjoy it. The ability to make this 
 game as long or as short as you want is also great because you can choose the time of each half.... you 
 can have anything from a 4 minute game to a 90 minute game. I personally choose a 16 minute game 
 (8 minute halves) because that way it makes the game last a little bit longer than it normally 
 would (the standard is 6 minute halves)
  
  All together with 8 minute halves it took me 14 hours to play through 2 full qualifying tournaments 
 and a full FIFA tournament so were looking at quite an average game in length All in all I give 
 FIFA 2006 a 7.5/10 because.. hey despite the annoying controls this is still a pretty good game 
 and I think that it would be fun for anybody aged between 10 and 100. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamedude404
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 9, 2007 12:12 pm PT
Review:  FIFA world cup is a fast paced soccer game. It good for 2 players and contains great presentations. 
 But after awhile, FIFA gets a little boring and short. The goal keepers are OK but sometimes miss 
 the easiest shots. Sound is pretty good. Graphics are good. Up until the legs. The legs may sometimes 
 look like robotic legs. But you can deal with that. Here are the pros and cons
  
  Pros: Great presentation, sound is pretty good, commentary sounds pretty realistic, feels like 
 the real FIFA sometimes, well paced
  
  Cons: Gets a little boring sometimes, 2 player co-op isn't very good, goalies need work 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 11cairborne
Rating: 6
Date: Aug 26, 2007 5:54 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: The game is not very good ,and is pretty bad i like the goal but the game is either too 
 easy or too hard. well there is also good parts about this game like almost nothing. well actually 
 there two thing that i like that team have their real player and same skill as in really life and 
 also the extra challenges so the gameplay would get a 6.0 out of 10.0
  
  Graphics: The graphics are beautiful usually in gamespot reviews theres a bad game and gamespot 
 say the graphics are bad when theyre really good well this game i dont like but the graphics are 
 the best part of the game so the graphics would get a 9 out of 10
  
  Sound: Well the sound is average except i would like to hear an American tell how the game is. 
 the sound is actually good really the sound is a 8 out of 10 Value: i got less than wat i payed 
 for i payed for a $60.00 game but i got a $25.00
  
  Tilt : 5.5 out of 10.00 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bloodbore8
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 5, 2008 10:10 am PT
Review:  While soccer is my favorite sport, my love for the sport is nowhere near as close as my brother's 
 or father's. They are so crazy about the sport that they bought 2006 FIFA World Cup... and actually 
 liked it! While they are only casual gamers, the following opinions are mine! Not my brother's 
 or father's! While many people like the FIFA games, that opinion does not reflect on my opinion 
 of the game. The graphics, while good at some places, can get ugly. The game in sometimes a little 
 fun on offense but is too random. Defense is just buttonmashing and can make you sleep. The game 
 has repititious and sometimes annoying sounds which make you want to pull off your ears. The commentaries 
 are so repititious stinks! The commentaries are so repitiitious and it stinks! This game is very 
 boring and not worth a purchase. Snore. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jono8192
Rating: 7.4
Date: Jul 28, 2007 6:49 am PT
Review:  2006 Fifa World Cup is a sure bet for any football fan. If you have been looking for a game where 
 you can take your nation all the way to the World Cup Final then this is for you.
  
  Players can either go straight to the finals and pick one of the 32 teams who made it in real life, 
 or can decide to play through the qualifiers, either with the real or randomized groups. It's really 
 fun playing in all these matches but if you choose to go straight to the last 32, then you will 
 only play a maximum of six matches - and that's if you make it to the final. However, the true 
 footy fan will choose to do it over and over again with lots of different teams.
  
  There are quite a few Global Challenges which basically invlove copying history and making  
 etc. etc. Some of these are quite straight forward where as others are extremely difficult and 
 will have even the coolest headed player very frustrated.
  
  You can take the game online and play against people from around the world and have a lot of fun. 
 However, if you have a bad connection then there may be a ridiculous amount of lag which makes 
 it extremely difficuly to play effectively.
  
  The graphics in this game are superb, with connfetti, flags, and flares looking really nice. Surpsingly 
 though, some of the players do not really ressemle their real life counterparts (even people like 
 Lampard and Owen) , which is quite strange as the game is made by the same company who make FIFA.
 
  
  Gameplay is another plus in the game. It's very easy to control players and pull of passes and 
 shots etc. It's quite difficult, sometimes, to go round players, but I guess that stays true to 
 real life.
  
  Overall, a good football game, but there may not be much appeal to make you replay it with different 
 countries, unless you are a true football fanatic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RandomTask221
Rating: 8.6
Date: May 9, 2007 7:41 pm PT
Review:  I have never really been a big soccer game fan, but I wanted my first experience with a soccer 
 game to be a good one. EA's FIFA brand has always been associated with decent soccer games and 
 after looking over the reviews for both FIFA06' and World Cup, I decided to go with the WC edition 
 because it got better grades. I must say that World Cup 2006 edition is actually very well designed, 
 the presentation is very good looking. The graphics are on par with what I have seen from EA's 
 next-gen games, the character models look pretty overly muscular but that really doesn't mean much, 
 just something that I wanted to point out. The sound and music are also pretty good, the comentators 
 are well spoken and interesting to listen to see understand what is going on, although it does 
 it somewhat boring after a wile. The gameplay is also very smooth, its easy to pick up and play 
 without really knowing all of the moves and tricks. One thing that really stood out, there is a 
 huge selection of teams to play as, this is one factor that helps the other modes out, such as 
 the challenge mode that allows you to play seniaros between rival teams and such. Overall, FIFA 
 World Cup 2006 is an actually really good sports game, and a very well made soccer simulator. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dreamtale666
Rating: 8.7
Date: Apr 21, 2007 5:22 am PT
Review:  Having played FIFA 06: RTWC and in turn playing FIFA 07 i was a little bemused as to what purpose 
 this game would ever serve but just last week i spotted this little gem at &pound;11.99 so i thought 
 hell, why not... well well well it certainly far surpasses the other two available on the 360 (not 
 including pro evo... i cant stand the lack of licensing) this game truly is a massive suprise wrapped 
 up in a (gotta be said) crappy game cover, but still this is THE best football game you can buy 
 on your 360 (Unless you like pro-evo, in which case dont be reading this review :D) , heres how 
 i think it shapes up.
  
  Gameplay 9/10 - This makes the whole game, forget graphics and sound, the gameplay alone would 
 be enough, ive never known a game that can feel both heavy and deep yet fast and furious, what 
 i mean to say is have the ball and your players seem realisticly heavier and deeper, without the 
 ball the action kicks up a notch, brilliant!
  
  Graphics 9/10 - Certainly aint the prettiest given the 360 games engine but player likenesses are 
 quite phenominal and once more not much in the way of game lagging.
  
  Sound 10/10 - Coupled with the gameplay and graphics this finishes the game off, close your eyes 
 and you could be in the stadium (if you got your suround sound hooked up) even the ball sounds 
 like it has weight to it and not like one of those cheap 99p floaters you buy at the beach.
  
  Value 10/10 - Yer as far as football games go this is the cheapest at date, at &pound;11.99 
 does it really matter if you play the odd match here and there? i think not! :)
  
  Tilt 6/10 - Unfortunatley theres not alot to keep hardcore football fans busy, once you've completed 
 world cup mode you may find this game a little obsolete, but hey theres still plenty of challenges 
 to do, and passport stickers to get!
  
  In short if you like football games and arent too bothered about just international teams playing 
 a part in the game, then you should definently buy this, and if you prefer pro-evo then your quite 
 sad :D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wildamnesia
Rating: 7.9
Date: Apr 16, 2007 4:12 am PT
Review:  Cheap 360 games are now appearing on ebay. I picked this up for only &pound;6. At that price you 
 can't go wrong - if it sucks sell it to someone else and make a small profit. Suprisingly, unlike 
 the actual World Cup, this game doesn't suck.
  
  It plays just like all the other FIFA footy games out there. It feels smooth and natural although 
 the players do move a lot faster than real life.
  
  The presentation makes this game stand out from the FIFA crowd. The cut scenes are great and frequent 
 (I love the shots of the managers directing play as you change tactics) . The replays look great 
 and cover every angle (but you can't save them to your HD) and the commentary is spot on and hardly 
 ever repeats itself (not that I've noticed anyway) . The graphics are pretty good too. The players 
 look almost life-like and the stadiums are highly detailed and packed with 3D crowds. There are 
 problems though: The framerate is unstable - not on the pitch during play but anywhere else, especially 
 corners and replays. This is ANNOYING in any game but extra annoying in this this game as it really 
 stutters at times and ruins the feel of the game.
  
  I would not recommend this game at the full retail price - no way. But for only &pound;6 it's a 
 steal. Get it now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cammonag
Rating: 6
Date: Apr 11, 2007 4:47 am PT
Review:  Fifa World Cup was the 2nd out of 4 EA games on the football front in the space of a year. The 
 achievements are probably the best part of the game , they are mostly easy and one achievement 
 is worth 500 points. The graphics on it is so-so and are quite advanced for a game at launch . 
 The gameplay is also quite good but the aim is the same as all games of a competition , win the 
 world cup and try to win all the games on the way . The difficulty only gets quite tough when you 
 try to complete all the campaigns as the difficulty or time remaining cant be changed which can 
 be extremelly frustrating when you have to score 13 goals against american samoa as australia .
 
  Overall , i dont think this game is worth getting and is worth about 8 pounds. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: muffinballow
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 9, 2007 5:47 am PT
Review:  This soccer game lets you play in the world cup also in the continet cup like the African Cup and 
 also you get to play scenarios plus scennarios of past world cup games and you would have known 
 how hard it was for them to pull through and keep a leveld head once you score your first goal 
 it is amazing and the goals keep on getting more and more amzing like you headbutt it the keeper 
 blockes you slide in from to side to make the shoot the keeper is barely on his feet but dives 
 again to block it it is in the air then you have to race one of the defenders ti score and then 
 the croads go wild and also you can play as favorite pro the cool thing is that every country has 
 a soccer team so you can play as your favorite team but thing that sucks is no club soccer the 
 only thing they need to make this game beter is cheerleader dude and also some of the time the 
 refere is with you or against you and also you can buy cheats like no penaltys, no walls, perfect 
 dificulty and other cheats and also on play now you can choose the ball you are going to play with 
 the also if it is a cub game or the world cup game it also some cheats and of course the time so 
 that is why this game is awsomeyou can be playing in the bahamas or in the streets of Brazil and 
 then the Sahra Desert you can take your dream vacation and pay soccer the same time!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gizmo24
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 4, 2007 6:16 pm PT
Review:  The game gives you allot of things to do like qualifying to the World Cup
  and of course participant in the World Cup. When you get tired of that you can go and do some challenges 
 like you only have 10 minutes of game play left and you need to score 2 goals to win the game.
 
  
  You can of course play with you're friends offline or with a complete stranger online.
  
  On the field 2006 FIFA World Cup is just as good as Road to World Cup but the game is still 
 not wherry realistic and the players and the ball
  still have a bad habit of staying looked to each other, but it is still
  a fun game to play.
 
  
  You're opponents are fairly hard to play against and that just makes ever
  goal more sweeter!
  
  The game still have some way to go before it's perfect.
  For some dumb 
 reason EA have made some long and boring sequences when you are
  going to make a player change that you not can get out of witch is frustrating
  as hell when 
 you are busy whit winning the game.
  
  The referee is a complete idiot, you are almost doomed to a yellow card any
  tackling you make.
 
  
  The graphics have improved allot since Road to World Cup game, the players
  don't look like plastic figures any more but more like real people,
  not perfect though but much 
 better.
  
  I give it 7,5/10
  
  Gizmo24 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gohashmeergo11
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jan 20, 2007 11:54 am PT
Review:  This is a really fun game. Qualifying for the World Cup and playing in it gives a great atmosphere. 
 This game is really good for anyone with an interest in football. This is the best Xbox 360 football 
 game (better than FIFA 07) . The graphics are ok, but the player models are really well done. They 
 look very realistic and the famous players look like they're exact counterparts. The game is really 
 fluid and fast and fun. The controls are good and have been tweaked a little. Shooting is now a 
 lot better. The AI is quite good too. This game is extremely easy though. When I play on World 
 Class with a team like France, I am easily able to beat any team. The computer gets off about 1 
 or 2 shots a game, whereas your team gets about 35. They computer goalie, no matter they're rating, 
 is always better than your goalie and is able to stop the best shots. For instance, I was playing 
 as Italy (one of the best teams) vs. St. Kitts (worst team overall in game) just to test out the 
 goalies. St. Kitts' goalie has an overall rating of 21, and is the worst player in the game (I 
 think the next best is 29 or 31, on the same team.) My goalie, has an overall rating of 94, and 
 is tied as the best player. I slammed 26 shots at they're goalie, and they were able to shoot three. 
 the final score was 3-2, i won. The only reason i scored was because of a blocked shot by theyre 
 defender which trickled in, and two breakaway goals. (I had about ten breakaways in the game but 
 the goalie continuosly denied them) . My goalie, on the other hand, messed up. One player on St. 
 Kitts lobbed a shot from about 40 yards out and my goalie trips, or something, and misses it. Another 
 occasion was a weak header which slowly rolled, but my goalie refused to respond until it slowly 
 SLOWLY passed him. This breaks the reality of the game, but if you play as a mediocre team on world 
 class, it should make for a good experience (or if you play as a bad team on professional, so your 
 goalie is pretty good) . The commentators really mess up alot but they are pretty good otherwise. 
 The songs are good too. If you like football, rent this game and you will probably decide to buy 
 it later. This game should be tried out first, but overall it is still quite good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: papapain1
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jan 12, 2007 1:28 am PT
Review:  2006 FIFA World Cup supersedes 2006 road to the world cup in almost every category. First of all 
 it is easier to score in this edition, the kicking is not as awkward and the player movement is 
 crisper. There is one draw back to this game. IT WILL NOT WORK ON THE 360. I bought this game new 
 shortly after the World Cup and I had a blast playing it. The only problem was that it would freeze 
 after the game. Not during the game or in the middle of the game, but after the game. This meant 
 that I could no longer play one player mode on the game and the experience was ruined for me. If 
 it were up to me, I would buy the game for a different console. It is still a great game, but just 
 dont waste your time playing it on the 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: king-of-ruckus
Rating: 7.2
Date: Dec 17, 2006 3:50 pm PT
Review:  I got this game because I am an avid soccer fan and just got a 360 and thought there was no way 
 this game could be anything less than amazing. The game has amazing graphics and a great selection 
 of teams. The gameplay and playable modes get old pretty fast. The goalies in this game are either 
 pathetic or amazingly fly through the air and predict exactly where the shot will go. The main 
 problem I have had with FIFA games over the years was the lack of AI involvement. Having played 
 soccer for the last 16 years of my life I understand the game and it is clear that whoever programs 
 the AI does not. I get frusterated when I have the ball and make a run and have no support or no 
 one sets up for a drop. If they would have watched some soccer they would see support is almost 
 always avalible when a player is making a run. Overall I was satisfied because the game cost me 
 10 bucks, but if i paid 60 for it i would be dissapointed. All i can say is i hope EA gets it together 
 with their 360 lineup. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: finalcross
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 28, 2006 6:15 am PT
Review:  The World Cup is by far the most marketable and most watched sporting event in the world. While 
 the Super Bowl is known for it's memorable commercials and it's sometimes forgivable games (I'm 
 a Seahawks' fan so you'll understand my view) the World Cup is always able to bring people together 
 to watch the 'beautiful game.'
  
  While the World Cup is long over I still tend to pick up this title and play a game here or there. 
 Considering that all 32 World Cup nations are represented pretty faithfully (no Theo Walcott on 
 England though) you can also play with a host of other non-qualified nations (Turkey or South Africa 
 for example) , there is always something to do and teams to try.
  
  Considering this game is old as of this review, the point of the matter is that if you're looking 
 for a decent soccer title on the Xbox but don't want to spend money on FIFA 07, this title is a 
 great choice. The fact that it's loaded with over 100 countries and has plenty of gameplay options, 
 including a fun but sometimes difficult Scenarios mode you'll have plenty to waste your time with.
 
  
  The only downside to this game like all of EA's other 360 titles is that while does have the core 
 features, it also lacks a lot of the stuff that current-gen titles contain. While the focus on 
 great graphics and sound is there, you'll be disappointed at the lack of the FIFA Lounge which 
 has been EA Canada's best addition to the game. While the World Cup mode is good, more than likely 
 you'll want to play this game with friends and the omission of that part of the game really hurts 
 the overall feel.
  
  If you need to keep up-to-date with the newest titles, then chances are unless your nation was 
 in the World Cup you probably already have this title or have already traded this in for FIFA 07. 
 But if you haven't gotten around to it and need a fun, easy to pick up game, then you can't go 
 wrong with World Cup 2006. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AJay25
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 4, 2006 1:58 pm PT
Review:  Fifa world cup is basically Fifa 06. The gameplay if put on a low difficulty level can be entertaining 
 but then scoring 10 goals in the first half gets boring, so naturally you up the difficulty level. 
 This is where it gets rather silly. Novice/semi pro and pro all get real easy fast and it's not 
 long before you'll start running rings round the computer players. If you have it on world class 
 though youre lucky to get the ball for 10 or more seconds. Shoot at an open net and the goalie 
 somehow scrambles a save. It's the same rubbish we saw in 05 to be honest. They tackle you real 
 easy, they just run into you even if you do a little trick or try your hardest to keep the ball 
 they get it, before you know it they are half way up the pitch with the ball. But if you have the 
 ball you'll need to take an 8 yard diversion of the nearest opponent to evade a tackle. So gameplay 
 really is a bit frustrating in a seen it done it boring same stuff over again Fifa kind of way.
 
  
  The cup play is good though and the qualifying and tables are done well. There is quite a bit to 
 do in regards to matches as you have the option to qualify or go straight to the finals.. Plus 
 you can try your luck with the global challenges if youre ready.
  
  Graphics - same engine as 06 so if you have played that then you'll know what it's like. If you 
 havent then the graphics are quite good, not next gen though by far, but better than the PC and 
 PS2/Xbox. All player kits are good and the stadiums are great but that's it really, nothing impressive.
 
  
  Sound - same as 06, repetitive commentary and old repetitive crowed chants, good song selection 
 though.
  
  Overall - Boring frustrating, been there, done that 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Uncle_Guts
Rating: 8.9
Date: Oct 11, 2006 9:43 am PT
Review:  the game is easey to beat becaus the oponets leave there gard down so getting your gols are easey 
 anybody chould beat it so it just is plane easey to play beet and anything that you can think of. 
 The game has some stuff that it can work on like the grafic and game play. IF you get close to 
 the goal then you atomaticaly make it in. to get the ball away just go to your deffens and go head 
 in then you get the ball and can take it up and score. just play the game and you will beat it 
 in no time so just keep playing seson mode and then you will win so dont let your gaurd down. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: juanmac1891
Rating: 8.8
Date: Oct 5, 2006 12:01 pm PT
Review:  This is the first Soccer game that I have ever owned, Mainly because i haven't liked how others 
 have played. This game sent me back to the good old days when I used to play soccer. The graphics 
 are the best i have seen so far and the configuration is simple enough for anybody to play. The 
 season is great. The global challenge is not for rookies though (hint the word challenge) . Multiplayer 
 is awsome. Right now i am in iraq and it is so fun being able to play a game that everybody likes 
 without the hassle of multiplayer glitches. Worth the buy even this day. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tonychicago
Rating: 9.3
Date: Sep 13, 2006 11:03 am PT
Review:  this game is super good ton's of fun it's warth every penny you pay gameplay is very good it's 
 the best in the soccer world the Graphics are super super good it's look's o'most human but that 
 isent why this game is so good the sound track isent the best and can be better but what ever i 
 love that you can be all the teams in the world but you whare all ways able to but what ever i 
 think this game is the best soccer game ever made and it's fun online it's fun just vs your friend 
 on 2 player but what ever 
::::::

::::::
UserName: abomounir
Rating: 9.4
Date: Sep 3, 2006 11:30 pm PT
Review:  it's look like the best soccer game Ever till now and i am talking about the graphics guys.... 
 you can't find any game look like fifa worldcup 2006 graphiclly Specially if you have a HDTV.. 
 you can enjoy this game if you like to play international but if you want to play with clubs then 
 wait till you see Fifa 07... it will kick off your world coz i compared it with PES 2007 By Trailers 
 and i think fifa started to win the war of Soccer coz the PES 2007 on 360 is more likely as on 
 the PS2 with alittle Enhanced graphics but not like fifa 07 which created for the 360........ So 
 Viva la  
 07 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarioD04
Rating: 8.3
Date: Sep 2, 2006 11:12 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: 8/10
  Reasons: The gameplay is not bad at all. The goalkeeper situation can be fixed by simply moving 
 the difficulty along to World Class while playing a friend, or just randomly while playing the 
 computer itself. There are some flaws with the passing in the game and with player reactions such 
 as waiting for the ball to come to them, or instantly slowing down. These aren't very complicated 
 problems as there are ways around them, but they can be very frustrating in online play. I'm sure 
 FIFA 07 will fix all of these, and that the game itself will be a brilliant one.
  
  They have captured the speed well, and it is better then in the previous FIFA games... but other 
 players can still quite easily catch up to you, and some of the reactions from your keeper may 
 be very stupid even in World Class difficulty. An eight is definitely what it deserves, and it 
 quite a good score for this game which is full of great unlockables along with every single team 
 in the World (with the exception of maybe a few) ... All uniforms are accurate, and it makes you 
 feel proud to represent your country all together.
  
  Graphics: 8/10
  Reasons: The graphics look great... quite spectacular with facial emotions, and character faces 
 overall. They have done a great job re-making the faces of the real life people, and the only problem 
 is that they have not showed the graphics off enough. The crowd still looks similar to a bunch 
 of worms waving around flags, but only this time they have square or rectangle heads instead which 
 is quite an improvement compared to FIFA 06. One thing to note is that it's annoying waiting for 
 the Substitutions to be made, but is one of the ways they show off the graphics. Sound: 8/10
  Reasons: The sound with the commentating and kicks aren't bad. There isn't much you can improve 
 on, except making a new speech linement for Clyde Tyldesly (spelling) and the other commentator, 
 as after you've played at least 10 matches, it gets very repetitive. He shows his compassion, and 
 is a great commentator, but the reason I gave this game an eight instead of a nine is just because 
 of that. When a shot rattles the bar, and the crowd reacts... it just shows how wondeful soccer 
 really can be. They have captured that part of the game very well, and the crowd reactions along 
 with shouts/rants are great. I still expect them to improve though, even as this was a game that 
 was quickly made for the Worldcup.
  
  Value: 8/10
  Reasons: The value of this game is great. You have global challenges, many teams to choose from, 
 and at least a good 10-15 hours of single player action in the game itself. After you've done that, 
 you can play it out online with a friend, or just keep playing to unlock more classic bios/ uniforms/ 
 etc...
  
  Great game.
  
  Tilt: 9/10
  Reasons: I have no problem with the tilt since you can set it as you please, but there are few, 
 VERY MINOR issues with camera glitches and such, that really aren't that bad. This is the highest 
 rating I could give regarding the camera though.
  
  Reccommendations: I suggest you have a weekly rent of this game to enjoy and play with buddys, 
 while completing all the global challenges (they aren't that tough to complete anyways) . I don't 
 think you should buy it unless you want to play it long term online.
  
  Anyways, it's a great game, and is definitely an improvement over Fifa 06, so enjoy it while it's 
 still played, and lets hope for the best in FIFA 07 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 0741robi
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 1, 2006 3:36 am PT
Review:  Fifa world cup 2006 is a great game for any football fan it keeps all they key things you would 
 expect to see in a world cup game with all the great features from any fifa game. This is a great 
 game for anyone who enjoyed the world cup and would like to see there country win. Although this 
 game has alot of good features it is really really short i completed it in less then a few hours 
 in the main world cup but there are some scenarios which you can complete to. The graphics on the 
 game are great and it feels like a real football game should. This is definetely a game you should 
 rent if you really enjoyed the world cup but if you want a good solid long football game then wait 
 for fifa 07. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: arsy130
Rating: 9.8
Date: Aug 22, 2006 1:03 pm PT
Review:  This game is awesome and i recommend it to everyone that likes Football / Soccer.. or even if you 
 dont like the sport you may like this game... its packed with a lot of action, and in my opinion 
 never gets boring.. This game will have you entertained for days, i could never get bored of it, 
 specially playing on Xbox Live its a lot of fun and gives the game a lot of replay value.... soo 
 what are you waiting for, go and but it already !!! .... Trust me you wont be disappointed, you 
 will be hooked for hours and hours. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheNIM
Rating: 8.3
Date: Aug 22, 2006 2:17 am PT
Review:  Well I picked up FIFA RTFWC and I was not only disappointed, but pi$$ed. That's why I had to cop 
 the other to believe the hype. While the game is far from perfect,, it is still an excellent World 
 Cup game. The graphics and sound make it a real life atmosphere. The chants the crowds do, the 
 realistic fans... the HUGE fflags in crowd. 
  
  Gameplay is better. Button sensitivity has imrpoved. Easier to shoot and while the goalies are 
 still on the weak side, they are much stronger than in RTFWC. The players almost look lifelike.
 
  
  They are still missing leagues and club teams. No type of franchise or owner mode. So there is 
 drastic room for improvement. But overall, soccer (football) fans should enjow it. Heck I dont even 
 really like the sport, but playing the game is another level for me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spurs2103champs
Rating: 8.6
Date: Aug 15, 2006 11:40 pm PT
Review:  I purchased this game because I had Fifa 04 for Xbox and really enjoyed that game. This Fifa game 
 is also very enjoyable mainly because of the addictive gameplay. In this Fifa edition there are 
 more controls ( I only use the basic controls and do fine) and the grpahics are very good. The 
 graphics truley show the next generation of video games. One of the downsides to this game is that 
 the Fifa Tournament is rather short and easy. I was hoping it would be kind of like a Franchise 
 but instead you just beat it once and then thats it. The other main mode is Global Challenge. In 
 this mode you pretty much just wirte history by playing with teams from previous years. This mode 
 is fun but not as good as the Fifa Tournament. The stadiums are also very well shown. They look 
 almost real. So basically if you have purchased Fifa in the past and enjoyed then you should defintley 
 buy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Beachedwhale29
Rating: 9.1
Date: Aug 15, 2006 7:00 pm PT
Review:  This game has everything you need in a world cup game. Unlike RTWC, it actually has a shop to spend 
 your money in. You can qualify for the World Cup or go straight to the World Cup brackets and fight 
 for the cup. The online mode is highly addicting and is what gives this game the great replay value. 
 The global challenges can get pretty hard (especially Sweden vs Brazil 1958 Final, have to score 
 2 goals in 10 mins just to tie the game! Not real time 10 mins, its like 3 real mins) . But I got 
 100% achieved and I had a blast, and I still play this game. If you are soccer fan, this game is 
 no doubt a good purchase and is highly justifiable! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 3eyedrazorback
Rating: 9.6
Date: Aug 15, 2006 9:33 am PT
Review:  great game. great atmosphere to play it. great sounds. awesome gameplay! need i say more? clyde 
 tinsley and andy townsend are at it again. so much better than it's predecessor Road to the Fifa 
 World Cup. online play is about as much fun as i've had with an online sports game. 90 minutes 
 of pure fun. possibly even more:) from the qualifiers all the way to the Knockout stage... the fun 
 just doesn't stop. i've had many tournaments go on at my house with this game. great game. go buy 
 it! especially if you're a soccer fan or a fan that's on the border of being one! it's definitely 
 worth the 40 bucks i put out for it!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Leon-RE4
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 13, 2006 9:47 am PT
Review:  Yeah thats damn true. You all saw the previous Fifa titles which included Fifa 95 till Fifa 2005 
 but as this game Fifa World Cup 2006 hit the stores, this was one of the best selling sports games. The 
 new Fifa has all new creation central and an all new Fifa lounge where players can have matches 
 with their partners and foes. The game is really well improoved graphically and as we talk about 
 the gameplay, this is the main factor because of which the game is the best Soccer games on earth 
 rite now. There were wonderful tackling abilities and many new tricks with the flick of the analogs 
 and a great role of the commentators was there too. Well im sure when the new Fifa 2007 comes out 
 this game will be no more a soccer topper but when u talk about rite now ,this game really is worth 
 playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: paco007mf
Rating: 8.4
Date: Aug 11, 2006 1:10 pm PT
Review:  Ok, this game is quite difficult to evaluate. 
  
  The FIFA Wolrd Cup 2006 doesnt have any innovative game mode, indeed I can say that it can be 
 improved a lot, in the free shots it is very difficult to do it like you want, is is more luck 
 than anything else.
  
  The game has some cinema displays that are boring and long; for example, when you do a substitution 
 and you cant stop or skip it.
  
  The graphics and sounds are good but no great. The commentaries from the commentators have some 
 mistakes, huge mistakes; for example, when you are playing with Brazil against Italia suddenly 
 you hear, A great play from Zidane
  
  
  
  In spite of all this great mistakes, it is fun to play; in multiplayer its marvelous.
  
  The 
 challenges are really a challenge to do them.
  
  I just cant wait to play in xbox live.
  
  If you are a soccer fan go and get this game (just like me = ) ) , but if you dont like soccer, 
 do yourself a favor, DONT BUY IT.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: meshymack
Rating: 9.6
Date: Aug 10, 2006 1:04 am PT
Review:  This game is superb in the graphics n sounds! Am so addicted to the sound tracks in this game for 
 sure that i would even just swicth it on n listen to it while i surf the internet or doing other 
 stuffs. 
  
  The gameplay is simple, just win the world cup using your own favourite national team through qualifiers 
 or straight to the finals! Ohya! They also added this Gobal Challange in it where you could actually 
 replay the scene of history world cup games against the team whom you cant choose, but given a 
 specific objectives you need to meet n may not be a full time match, but a given left time match. 
 (eg: beat brazil team using sweden team given scoreline: sweden 2 brazil 4, given time left: 10mins 
 to full time) .
  
  Its quite fun to play! Also with the online matches you could play against anyone with or without 
 rank matches, its still lots of fun! The controls of the players are very nice done. Lots of stuffs 
 to do with the ball when ya player is on it! And the stamina bar really counts, which means passing 
 the ball fast or slow depends on ya stamina as well. 
  
  The downfall of this game are the indirect free kicks n corners where you could not see where ya 
 kicking the ball as its the front view eye! Still, its kinda addictive to play this game. Am actually 
 kinda addicted to this game even though i have completed almost everything in the game! Cheerz!- 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: halomaster1211
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 9, 2006 10:43 am PT
Review:  Good: More strategy then any other soccer game. A good feeling when you beat your friends.
  
  Bad: Its a little bit held back up in defence. Takes a little while to get right up there to 
 take a shot. Soccer online play can tend to get a bit laggy. Gets boring when your getting flogged 
 by a friend.
  
  When i played this game i thought a little bit bored so i think pro evoloution soccer 5 is better 
 but i like both anyway. I know a lot of people that say Soccer games are crap. But there cheating 
 thereselfs because they just havent spent the time on it. If your a first person shooter person 
 you probably wont like it but theres still 25% chance you will like it for first person shooters 
 so give it a try! 
  
  If your really into soccer maybe you should get winning eleven 9 its really cool. I know i know 
 the cover of the xbox 360 looks attractive so you have to get all of them but thats a waste of 
 money get the ones that you know that will last a long long time. So if you already got fifa 2006 
 or fifa 2005 or things like that then dont get it just wait a little while. The scoring in this 
 game is really good u score the amount of perfect like a real match not like fifa 2003 so its a 
 must have if you are into soccer games. theres still better games on the market. eg need for speed 
 most wanted on xbox 360, Graw, and many others. Cheers mates;) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maniaclepc
Rating: 6
Date: Aug 9, 2006 6:22 am PT
Review:  I am just disappointed with this game. There was really no way to sink my teeth into it. From trying 
 to learn the moves in a practice mode that might as well have been tournament mode, because you 
 don't get to really practice anything. I did win the World Cup, and almost every score was the 
 same method. I started in the middle and just ran straight up the middle, and when I got to the 
 semi-circle in the box, I kicked. 9 times out of 10, I scored doing it this way. Not much fun. 
 I felt like I was more just trying to finish the game than enjoy the aspects of it. One of my characters 
 had a bug, which made it look like he had hair implants turning into horns, moving in and out of 
 his head. Games like this make me want to switch back to my Xbox. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: abdulrahiem
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 7, 2006 3:29 pm PT
Review:  The gameplay is superb, very realistic. There are so many different things you can do with the 
 ball, with just as many options before you even get it. Scoring a goal can truly be a reward and 
 you'll find yourself on occasoin jumping out of your chair once the ball goes through the net and 
 you can hear the intese vocals of the crowd and the announcer going wild. Electronic Arts has made 
 a very great job on its official 2006 FIFA World Cup video game. You can choose your favourite 
 national teams to win the World Cup, you can play not only at the World Cup Finals stage, you can 
 play World Cup during qualifying period. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maxinshoes
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 7, 2006 10:58 am PT
Review:  Pros: Superb animations
  Great graphical improvements over the original A real world cup atmosphere
  Cons: Poor goalkeepers, 
 as on most football games
  Bad Glitch Areas: Goalkeepers go crazy in the middle of action sometimes
  Overview: At first, 
 it seems like just another football game, but as you play, you see it is one hell of a football. 
 The world cup festivals and matches are perfectly recreated in this spectral wizard of a football 
 tournament videogame. Every time you score there is a torrent of cheers. The graphics are a massive 
 improvement over the dopey models in the original FIFA 06, as is the sound and quality of gameplay.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Keith4RFC17
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 7, 2006 3:55 am PT
Review:  Ive played near enough every Fifa football game and all i can say about them is at first they all 
 seem good but they dont manage to keep me intrested the main thing that i dont like about the game 
 is the fact that whenever you decide you've had enough of a difficulty and you choose to put it 
 up a notch it becomes next to impossible to score not because of all the defenders and people that 
 are in my way its the goal keeper you'd think he had cat reflexs its a joke you go one on one with 
 the goal keeper and its impossible to trick your way by him well it isnt in real life i dont know 
 why EA have made its absolutley impossible maby its because they barely watch any soccer and they 
 have missed some players out such as Franck Ribery of France.
  The next thing i hate is the global challenge what a waste of time sure i like the fact their trying 
 something new but i dont like the fact you cant choose your own difficulty in this damn mode currently 
 im stuck on the Sweden VS Brazil and ive got to score 2 goals in less than 2 minutes against id 
 say a world class difficulty which isnt exactly easy.
  The best bit of the game is the very good graphics plus if you have a surround system which i do 
 its sounds really good and the gameplay is good at first but will get repetitive. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RAFE1941
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 5, 2006 1:31 am PT
Review:  I've played several soccer/football games in my life, but this one was fun. I still feel the Winning 
 11 series is the best (at least in my opinion) .
  This game was fun and VERY detailed. Every player and every team was EXTREMELY accurate. Down to 
 Beckhams neck tattoo!!!! 
  Faces were very detailed as well. Overall, like I said above. ABOVE AVERAGE and worth checking 
 out for sure. When in doubt, rent it first. But I can guarantee you, once you get started on your 
 quest to win the Cup, you will be hooked! Once my brothers and I reached the final, we were pumped 
 and nervous. Very weird, but we had spent so much time getting there, it felt like we had a lot 
 to lose. We really got into it. 
  We won the Cup and still find ourselves playing just because. Oh yeah... the soundtrack is nice 
 as well. Diverse music from around the world.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: hg199
Rating: 9.3
Date: Aug 3, 2006 10:53 pm PT
Review:  As an Aussie I watched 3 games of the world cup - which is the first three games of the sport I've 
 ever watched. Sure -- I've seen it being played in passing but I have never been interested.
  
  So why on Earth did I buy a football game? Who knows, but I couldn't be happier.
  
  The 
 graphics are astonishing, from the feeling of the 60,000 strong crowd watching, to the pony tail 
 on that Brazilian player. They have captured realistic movements and emotions of the players - 
 this is the best looking game I've played on the X360 so far...
  
  I have found it so easy to play this game, passing to other players and doing last minute across 
 field kicks for attempted headers into goal are easier than I ever thought possible. The basic 
 controls are all you need to win - but once you conquer those, you can move on to the very fun 
 (and tricky) advance controls.
  
  There is just so much excitement playing this game with a friend. It's so even - and if you're 
 playing a mate who's heaps better than yourself - play as Brazil and get them to play as Australia!
 
  
  Last night we played six games, and the score it 3 games each. It is just so real and just so much 
 fun. Unbelievable.
  
  I highly recommend this game if you (A) like sports games or (B) like football.
  
  I love Rugby 
 06 - but I like this better!
  
  The only bad thing I could say is... the text on the menu is too small to read!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: couse18
Rating: 7.3
Date: Aug 3, 2006 11:29 am PT
Review:  This game was alright. I did not really enjoy this game as much as the fifa 2002 game. This game 
 did really put out the fever for 2006 fifa but it really lacked alot. This game got annoying since 
 you could not tackle someone and get away with it and carry on like in 2002 fifa. Sometimes you 
 could get away with it. It was lacking a fun vareity of bonus games or game modes. The online SUCKED 
 for the most part. There was text! TEXT in the lobby. You could not talk during a game. Which really 
 really sucked. The lagging for online was not as bad as some other games. The graphics for this 
 game was average. gameplay was alright. EXCEPT you would shoot the ball the goalie would stop it 
 BEHIND THE FREAKING GOAL LINE!!!! and they would not count it as a goal. It really pissed me off 
 alot. The acheviement were not that spread out. There was a game mode called Global Challenge. 
 and if you completed all of them you would recieve 500 FREAKING ACHEVIEMENT POINTS!!! I could not 
 get these because they were impossible for the most part. This game is complete crap for the most 
 part and theres no point of buying it now since Fifa 2006 is over... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dbzfighter33
Rating: 7.9
Date: Jul 29, 2006 12:26 am PT
Review:  well when i first played the game, the first thing i noticed where the frustrating controls. it 
 was hard for me to find out wat i was doing and before i new it i was losing to my friend 5 to 
 0 without even knowing wat happened. The controls aren't impossible and once u get it down the 
 game can be very enjoyable. The graphics are pretty good , when it shows close ups and grass swaying 
 with the wind it does a very good job but its still not possible to tell some people apart from 
 other during the actual gameplay.
  
  The game is much funner playing with friends, and gets old quickly if u decide to play too long. 
 (well maybe not for everybody) its always fun to pick ur favorite team and start a franchise with 
 them and try to lead them to the world cup. For the sound, ehh, personally i dont pay too much 
 attention to it because its a soccer game, the commentators r pretty good and usually hav a variety 
 of things to say. overall i think ull enjoy this game if u paly or enjoying watching soccer, and 
 if u dont, rent it first or play it at a friends house.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: audix2359
Rating: 2.3
Date: Jul 25, 2006 2:37 pm PT
Review:  This is one game to rent for the weekend. Everything in the game is disappointing.
  
  Graphics = F. The menu graphics are impressive as are the stadiums in pre kick-off. The in game 
 graphics are terrible. I have a 50" LG HD Plasma TV and I should be able to tell players apart 
 by the way they look but I cannot. Sure, I can tell the difference between Zidane and Henry but 
 Henry and Treguzet look the same. To further enhance the problem of player identification, the 
 players name appears at the bottom of the screen, away from the player. This makes it difficult 
 to keep an eye on who has the ball while playing at the same time. Ideally, the players name should 
 appear beneath them. 
  
  Game play = D. The poor gameplay really takes away from this game. EA really should have just ported 
 FIFA 2006 over to this platform and used international teams instead of club teams. Granted, FIFA 
 2006 had it''s issues and needed some tweaking but this gameplay is awful. The game play not only 
 makes the game barely enjoyable but makes playing on line completely pointless. Between the server 
 lag and the cheesing on line play really isn't that much fun.
  
  Features = C. The game does what it's supposed to do. The thought of taking a team through their 
 regions qualifying rounds and through to the World Cup is exciting and this is what the game provides. 
 There are friendlies, etc. along the way that help. You also earn points along the way to spend 
 unlocking things in the EA shop like historic players, 3rd kits, balls, etc. One nice feature is 
 the ability to use unlocked historic players while playing on line. Nothing like breaking out Beckenbaur 
 and Voller when you jump on line... until your opponent starts cheesing you to death.
  
  Overall. I really wish I would have rented this game for the weekend instead of buying it. I really 
 hope FIFA 2008 has nothing in common with the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jdknight21
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jul 24, 2006 10:51 am PT
Review:  When I say 'next-gen' AI, the computer should never do things that your team can't do. For example, 
 when you are on difficult global challenges and pump up the difficulty, it is almost as if you 
 can't win the 50-50 challenges they win, and that is just the start. The difficulty level of the 
 game is not as extreme as I may have just made it sound, but in terms of AI, your passes should 
 go to where you press , and not in a completely different way, and the through balls seemed like 
 they were intended to go straight to the defender. My other quam, is that your players try to pass 
 through defenders instead of curving it around them. I'm hoping that in future FIFA games, you'll 
 eventually be able have a curved pass, as opposed to just straight ground passes and lobs.
  Another problem I had with the AI, was when you would set your team strategy for 'flood the box' 
 or 'counter-attack', your team didn't seem to be affected by it as much as you would have hoped. 
 For instance, on 'counter attack' when I would steal the ball ad mid-field, instead of my forward 
 making a break to get behind the defense sometimes, they would run slowly or even jog until I got 
 close to them, and pause. So at times it feels that you have to do everything in the game.
  Other than that, the graphics were decent, the sound is great, and the presentation is really nice, 
 too.
  Unfortunately, I've dropped alot of hours into this game, so I've found all the faults in the game, 
 I. E. : The scoreboard will say the wrong scores on occassion, and at the end of some games, the 
 field glitches to instantly show a worn field.
  However, the game is fun, but future iterations need some more polish. 
  I'm going to say the 
 learning curve is what you make it. The instruction booklet is very thin, and I didn't know that 
 double tapping the shot button would make headers and shots aim for the ground.
  On the subject of controls, they are responsive and solid, except sometimes the ball doesn't go 
 to the space you intended, but rather towards a player in the general area, which can work against 
 you sometimes. The right analog juke controls don't really affect gameplay too much, and if you 
 are playing at harder levels, or against a skilled player, they'll hurt you more times than they'll 
 help you, and in FIFA tradition, the jukes don't juke anyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: daveld
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jul 21, 2006 1:55 pm PT
Review:  This is by far the best world cup game I've played to date. The Fifa franchise is always leading 
 in realism. If you play Madden, NHL, Tennis, and so on you'll find that as they are true to the 
 sport they are for the most part made into an arcade game. Fifa does the best job of giving you 
 an actual experience. Feel the pressure of a world cup match, try to get that illusive goal and 
 take your country to the best in the world. I can't even tell you how many times Canada has won 
 the world cup over again.
  
  If you want a true to life experience that has awesome gameplay, beautiful sounds with a great 
 mix of world music, wonderful graphics, and an experience to remember pick up this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: oscaralex
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 20, 2006 10:01 am PT
Review:  This is the best soccer game ever!!
  I've played all the Fifa's Games since Fifa Soccer 1996, and this is the soccer game that I'va 
 liked better, I Like to play with Germany, Sweden or Italy, the characters of this teams look pretty 
 much the same to the real football player, Congratulations Electronic Arts for this Masterpiece 
 of soccer franchise, the music is amazing, I like Aloha (Wari Boom) , Big City Life, Never Win, 
 Tijuana Makes Me Happy, and the Sergio Mendez's song...
  So, the bottom line is that I recommend you to buy this game or if you already have it to play 
 it, because this really is a beautiful game, i was amazed when I played it for the first time, 
 but the price for all 360's games seems high, very high, 60 dollars?? PLEASE, lower it a little 
 don't you think.
  So, thanks for your time, I hope you enjoyed reading this review and take care.
  See you later!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shuper
Rating: 7.9
Date: Jul 19, 2006 2:10 pm PT
Review:  Finally a next-gen game. Why? The graphics are amazing! Imagine Rooney running down the field on 
 a break away, and you can see the sweat dripping down his forehead. The gameplay is also good, 
 but it's very boring to watch a friend play. That god damn British commentary pissed me off so 
 the sound of this game dropped. The games price was too high, but all Xbox 360 games prices are 
 too high. Yes I would say this is a good game. The online is sadly a lag fest, well atleast for 
 me. They have 127 teams on the game so the odds of using your country are higher. I use Canada!!!! 
 I think that the music in this game is very good too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: colegallop
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 19, 2006 8:11 am PT
Review:  The game play is good but the difference in difficulty level is huge on amateur you can win 5 - 
 0 but put it on Moderate you barely touch the ball. The one thing I didn't like at all is the ai 
 all the other team does is pass it and keep turning back to their on goal and if you get the ball 
 and stand there no one comes after you, I could score 1 goal and just stand there the rest of the 
 half not doing anything, and whats with the automatic change of player you can be about to steal 
 the ball and the ai changes u to a different player all of a sudden. The graphics are great when 
 your not actually playing the game. There ok for a soccer game but come on this doesn't look like 
 next gen consul graphics.
  
  Even though it sounds like I hate it I don't. The commentary is perfect, all the modes, teams and 
 things to unlock are great (Could have used more achievements for 360 points) the stadiums and 
 players look really good and playing with a friend/friends is great. The best thing about this 
 game is that you can take a Team like Canada which probably won't win the world cup for a 1000 
 yrs ( WOOT GO CANADA Year 3006) and win it with them.
  
  I recommend this game for all soccer fans but not really for non soccer fans because how easy it 
 is too get a red card really makes soccer look like wimpy sport. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Parker626
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jul 14, 2006 11:04 pm PT
Review:  Being an American, soccer has never really been something I was even remotely interested in because 
 I had never been exposed to it. However, with the this year being a FIFA World Cup year, I found 
 myself intensly watching the games. I'm half Italian so I was more than pleased to see that won 
 the finals. 
  
  Anyway, the game is amazing to me. Obviously, being an EA game the game is almost promising to 
 be good in the gameplay area. I actually found myself almost standing up in my seat whenever I 
 would be on a break away about to try and score a goal. This is when the game really stands out 
 to me - luckily you don't have the ability to score everytime or else the game would feel way too 
 arcade-like. The way the breakaways and corner kicks and shots on your own goal by the other team 
 make your heart race is something I haven't felt in a sports game in a long time. 
  
  So I highly recommend this game as something that is different and for anyone who is looking for 
 a nice change of pace. This game will provide that through and through. It is fun on all levels 
 and easy to pick up, while still being complex enough to keep the game's replayability at a high 
 level. So pick up this game if you have the extra money... you might be as surprised as I was. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jdeez09
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jul 10, 2006 7:39 pm PT
Review:  This is perhaps the best FIFA game I have played to date. Its highly addicting you will be playing 
 for hours on end. ~WARNING~ YOU MAY LOSE SLEEP FOR PLAYING THIS GAME!! Me and my friends have stayed 
 up the last few weekends playing this game all night. It also got alot of them into soccer or futbol. 
 I have now gone through the world cup over ten times and i still cant get enough... maybe I will 
 eventually end up going through all 127!! That is my review and good luck with this game you will 
 have a blast and like I said before you may lose some needed rest... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hades_30
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 10, 2006 1:21 pm PT
Review:  I am enjoying 2006 FIFA World Cup. It has a good blend of tactics and action on the field, and 
 a good pace. I am able knock the ball around, something I haven't been able to do much of in past 
 EA soccer games.
  
  There are lots of animations, and I haven't seen a goal scored that looked the same. Graphics are 
 what you'd expect from an EA sports game, but not spectacular. Sound effects are good. A highlight 
 is how the fans respond to fast breaks down the field or set pieces around the box.
  
  The interface, particularly when navigating through the menus and different tables is ok, but too 
 clumsy in some areas.
  
  I have yet to really play online, although the one match I did play was very laggy, it may not 
 have been the game, as many other factors could have influenced the gameplay online.
  
  There is alot to like in this soccer game as a casual fan of the game. For hardcore soccer fans, 
 the Winning Eleven series may be attractive, but I am sticking with EA's FIFA games. I've played 
 the past editions of EA's FIFA World Cup. The ease of play and moderate pace of the game is just 
 right for me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: arab_prince
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 9, 2006 8:58 pm PT
Review:  Good time for the World Cup. Great buy if have Football Fever.
  
  Graphics are solid, nothing spectacular, nothing too choppy.
  
  Sounds is great. I loved the 
 commentating. Good sounds overall, really brings the experience to life.
  
  Gameplay is good. It plays like most other football games. Nothing new that you havent seen.
 
  
  Can be really fun at times. You can start a world cup with any team at all. So you can spend some 
 times starting your own, crazy, world cup with a friend or what not. This enjoyment lasts for a 
 good while.
  
  In the end, you'll enjoy this game. But since the World Cup ended, you probably lost your Football 
 Fever, so there wouldnt be much of a point in buying it. Rent it at least, its great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mariofan1314
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 11, 2006 3:44 pm PT
Review:  Fifa World Cup to Germany puts you in the position of your favorite soccer team and their quest 
 to win the world cup and trust me it's easier than I thoguht i''d be. The graphics of this game 
 are probably one of the only good things about this game beside online play! While playing you'll 
 notice that all your CPU opponentsdo is go around, and around, and around until you finally get 
 so mad that you slide tackle them! Anway, you very easily will make it to the world cup depending 
 on what difficulty you have it on. Xbox Live is (as I said before) one of the only things that is 
 good about this game. You can talk to the opponent, sub players, and even pick the field and you very 
 rarely lose connection. Overall Fifa World Cup to Germany is a nice pick up soccer game that you'll 
 enjoy until you fianlly get to the World Cup and own the CPU. If you want a real soccer experince 
 you'd be better off getting Fifa 07, even though you won't find graphics like this is Fifa 07. I 
 give Fifa WorldCup to Germany 7.6 burned flags out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TanRam13
Rating: 6
Date: Jul 9, 2006 12:08 pm PT
Review:  I love soccer love watching the game love playing the game just not on teh 360. The gameplay is 
 solid just like any other soccer game you pass you kick you score. This game however just does 
 not allow for teh fliudity of those consepts to be played. I cannot pass the ball where I want 
 to because of clunky controls. I can't kick becasue i never get the chance thanks to my non existant 
 teammates. And because of these I cannot score. Making the game a very frustrating and vein popping 
 experience. The players move like the have a pole stuck up their asswith little to no fluid movement. 
 However the CPU seems to have no problem moving its players around with easy mocking your every 
 move as it some how always finds a way to stel the ball from you even right after you took it from 
 them. A minor complaint is that when you or the other team is subbing their is no way to skip it 
 leaving me at least some time to take a piss and get something to drink before starting play back 
 up again. Slowing down the action just as it started.
  
  Online is actually better than the offline experience if it just werent for the lag during games 
 I would be playing that 24/7 instead of the regular games. The other mode called Global Challenge 
 is INSANELY HARD! and at some points unbeatable. Which while not nessisary to play makes the game 
 not worth as much sense you wont be playing it unless you want to have a heartattack when your 
 team doesnt score the winning goal in the final seconds of regulation
  
  On the plus side it looks nice and its better than the other soccer game that has come out. Overall 
 here is hoping to Winning Eleven to come in and provide the 360 with a true soccer experience. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: THETRUEXBOXMAN
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 6, 2006 8:20 pm PT
Review:  I'm not a soccer genius or freak about soccer. I just like the sport. This game is so good that 
 I have so much fun playing, more than any other soccer game to date. The FIFA World Cup Mode is 
 the main part of the game, which it is fun to take a team from the six continents & with over 125 
 countries, but there isn't too much to do in the World Cup mode.
  
  The other main mode is Global Challenge. This is more fun in my mind than the WC Mode but it is 
 just mid-late or in some cases beginning stages of some historic games which is fun to get the 
 points to buy things from the store. The online portion is something I have yet to try due to I 
 have only XBL Sliver, but I believe that it should be fun. This is a buyer in my mind ( especially 
 when your able to get it from eBay for like $20 NEW!)
  
  I think that any sports fan should try it out! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rayzup
Rating: 6
Date: Jul 6, 2006 3:08 pm PT
Review:  this game has put me in shock I believe EA fired their gameplay staff and just brought in artists...
 
  
  Graphics
  Good:
  Clothing effects and player face animations are spectacular, grass blows in the wind
  BAD:
 
  the blurr effects are to the MAX! I think cameras are a bit better than that... this game is so 
 sad for graphics just blurr out the edges, but guess what ea u cant blurr out the fact that it 
 sucks.
  
  Gameplay
  Good:
  
  Bad:
  They brought new meaning to the phrase clunky controls, if you own fifa 06 suffer through the graphics 
 till fifa 07 because oh my dear lord is this game a step down, it makes fifa 98's controls seem 
 revolutionary.
  
  PEOPLE I can rant on about the suck all day but if your a die hard fan pick it up sure its nice 
 to see the adidas world cup ball in the game and some flashy graphics but the camera is so far 
 zoomed out u cant seem them anyways, but thats a good thing because the 360 cant actually handle 
 these and it shows when it goes into goal replays, the fps sometimes gets so bad the system just 
 stalls. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DNOMYTE
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 6, 2006 9:32 am PT
Review:  Well its a great soccer game and the best i have ever played, so thats saying well not too much.... anywho 
 graphics are da bomb but it always seems like the generic faces look kinda ridiculous but not in 
 this game they look decent. Gameplay is very good ,very real feeling. Overall a real solid football 
 game (yeah thats right football) A must own for any true football fan that has a 360. It is very 
 hard to put down once you start playing the multiplayer is great. Games are pretty unpredictable 
 as Macedonia could pull a win out of their ass against Spain or sumthin its a fun game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SikWitIt2K5
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jul 6, 2006 7:47 am PT
Review:  I love the W11 series and had been playing it on the ps2 but it does not come close to this fifa 
 game out for the xbox 360. The stadiums and graphics look good and I recognize many of the players. 
 The gameplay is extremely well-done and the game plays really well. Havnt tried online yet. Great 
 game to play while waiting for W11 to come out on the 360. My only complaints are that the commentary 
 is a little lacking and there are only Countries and no club teams or other tournaments. Italy 
 (my fav team) , Germany, Spain, France, England, and Netherlands are some of the best teams to play 
 as. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Drumguru1
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 6, 2006 7:01 am PT
Review:  I have this game for the xbox 360 and from the opening menus this game is prettty good. The only 
 thing this game lacks is the fact that you can't control the goalie like you want to. Suree you 
 can press Y to make the goalie come out of the box but this game would be so much better if you 
 could be the goalie if you wanted to be. Also the series made a huge mistake when the decided to 
 make 2 soccer games this year. I know you couldn't fit all the content of both games in to one 
 but they needed to release both games earlier. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spindler01
Rating: 7.4
Date: Jul 4, 2006 9:58 am PT
Review:  It's probably worth it just to show how bad "Road to World Cup" was, because my god was that awful 
 in comparison, I mean just why did they release it? Why couldn't they port 2006 onto 360! They 
 did it with the PSP!
  Honestly.....
  But this game is much better, graphics are good! Gameplay feels pretty weak at times, like nothing 
 compared to Pro Evolution, but it's not all that bad. Soundtrack is sound as usual from EA, wide 
 range of tracks on there, crowd sounds good, the commentary just seems to be getting better with 
 every game they release.
  
  Overall, it's a decent game, but really just filler while we wait for FIFA 07, and after playing 
 this : Hell yeah, bring it on 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GangstaKeith
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 2, 2006 12:18 pm PT
Review:  The game play is good but the difference in difficulty level is huge on amateur you can win 5 - 
 0 but put it on Moderate you barely touch the ball. The one thing I didn't like at all is the ai 
 all the other team does is pass it and keep turning back to their on goal and if you get the ball 
 and stand there no one comes after you, I could score 1 goal and just stand there the rest of the 
 half not doing anything, and whats with the automatic change of player you can be about to steal 
 the ball and the ai changes u to a different player all of a sudden. The graphics are great when 
 your not actually playing the game. There ok for a soccer game but come on this doesn't look like 
 next gen consul graphics.
  
  Even though it sounds like I hate it I don't. The commentary is perfect, all the modes, teams and 
 things to unlock are great (Could have used more achievements for 360 points) the stadiums and 
 players look really good and playing with a friend/friends is great. The best thing about this 
 game is that you can take a Team like Canada which probably won't win the world cup for a 1000 
 yrs ( WOOT GO CANADA Year 3006) and win it with them.
  
  I recommend this game for all soccer fans but not really for non soccer fans because how easy it 
 is too get a red card really makes soccer look like wimpy sport. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: N3SKirby
Rating: 10
Date: May 19, 2007 11:21 pm PT
Review:  This game has got to be one of the funnest sports games I have ever played. Before playing it I 
 did not watch, nor care about soccer, I could name two players in all of soccer... Now I actually 
 fairly understand and enjoy the sport more than I would have ever thought.
  
  The game is not just for hardcore fans, its for people who want to play a fun and competitive game 
 against their friends with an easy learning curve. I had a great time playing it, the game lasts 
 90 minutes, but the clock is accelerated so its a decent paced game. The graphics are good and 
 the gameplay is even better. The only problem I have had with it is some double passing and some 
 screw ups, but thats mainly just my own damn fault :)
  
  I really reccomend this game for a two player game for people to play and have fun with their friends. 
 It is why I got it and so far I am not regretting playing it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lilomez238
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jul 1, 2006 8:45 pm PT
Review:  This is one of the best soccer games i have ever played... although this is the only one besides 
 road to the world cup which blew... This game has many features when you start out as any team on 
 the qualifiers.... The comantery was really bad the british guys accent made me really mad and 
 whenever the made a tap shot to my goalkeeper which is a obviously easy save he makes it sound 
 miraculous... lol but yea i bet i know about soccer than this dude.... if the comantery was better 
 than this game would of been in my top 5. it seriously ruined the game... graphics are sick.... id 
 give it a good 8.6 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cartmanstein
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 1, 2006 12:20 am PT
Review:  I think I speak for everyone here on GS that the first FIFA game for the 360 was disapointing due 
 to its lack of game modes, and I think it just plain old sucked. With that being said, this newer 
 game is by far more impressive and the much better choice, with fully pimped out features, terrific 
 graphics, solid kick@$$ soccer gameplay, and complete with great music from around the world to 
 represent the teams. The control scheme is very simple as usual, maybe reminding you of the Winning 
 11 series, cause I know it did for me. Whatever FIFA screws up in precision makes up for in fast-paced 
 action. This game is a must-buy for those who like sports games and are actually excited about 
 the World Cup Thingamadoodlybobber. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sosajunior21
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 28, 2006 11:26 am PT
Review:  I hated soccer before i played this. I used to think that soccer was really easy and pretty stupid. 
 Once i played this i discovered how hard soccer can be and I started playing with my friend and 
 relized it is extremley hard. If you hate soccer like i DID or are a big soccer fan you will enjoy 
 this game. It is so realistic and well.... just plain out soccer fun. It is pretty hard to learn 
 but after you played some games it gets easier until u look pretty good out there pulling off all 
 the shots and tackles. It get frustrating at first because it took me like 4 games before imade 
 my first goal and my first goal was an accident they scored on them selvs. Some people say the 
 game sucks because of the time.... which is pretty dumb. But still doesnt even come close to getting 
 rid of even a little bit of the fun this game brings to the xbox 360 using all of the next-gen 
 capibilities and i cant wait for the next soccer game hopping and betting it will be better! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MadTomBonney
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 28, 2006 1:58 am PT
Review:  Fifa world cup 2006 for the xbox 360 is a good game that will sure to please msot football game 
 fans.
  
  The sound, as we have come to expect from ea recently, is pretty solid with a good selection and 
 this is no exception. The ocmmentry is also solid so there is not much to complain about in this 
 section.
  
  The games value however is up to debate. I managed to get it for 30 and in this case it is well 
 deserved of that price but get up to the 40-50 price range and it does not look like such a good 
 deal, as it is even lacking some features of the psp - being able to simulate matches, a tournament 
 layout of the latter stage of the tournament . However it does have the frustratingly, but addictive 
 global challenges and the achievement for it makes you wont to play through it, ability to use 
 the seedings to randomise groups and of course better graphics.
  
  The graphics of this game are good. Not great. Not next-gen. But good and solid. The in-game graphice 
 are almost iderntical to that of the other console versions except for increased realism of the 
 crowd. However the cutscenes arem uch better with more detail, expecially the players muscles and 
 an overall improvement in most other areas.
  
  Gameplay is once again not much different to previous FIFA games withthe increase of difficulty 
 just making teams like el salvador the new brazil in pace etc. instead of being better at creating 
 attacks etc. HOwever this is a tried and tested formula and works perfectly however it does consist 
 of some bugs; restarting at a kick-off after you pause it (rare but does happen) , players randomly 
 appearing after being invisible!?!?! there are a few more but they do not ruin the game which is 
 very enjoyable.
  
  The online mode is basic but very effective. You can only have one player on each team though and 
 there are no replayes but you can have unranked ands ranked matches. 
  
  Did I mention the addicitveness fo the global challenges - some are immense and solid whilst others 
 are easy, but it is worth it for the 500 achivement points! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mj6foot6
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jun 27, 2006 3:06 pm PT
Review:  I bought this game originally because I buy just about every game that comes out especially for 
 PS2 though (much better system) , after 5-10 minutes I was very bored with it but then I gave it 
 one more shot a couple weeks later and played through a full game, by the time I was a few minutes 
 into the second half I realized how great the game really is, the best part of the game is the 
 crowd, they really get into it, the controls are simple, nothing special though which was dissapointing, 
 the main thing that made me dislike the game the first time I tried it is that there's no create-a-player, 
 I can see a create-a-team option not being in there but a sports game let alone a game at all without 
 create-a-player in my eyes brings the score down dramatically and ofcourse the intensity, if I 
 was the creator of Pong I would have put a create-a-player mode in it, like changing the colour 
 of your line. In the end I still give this game its props. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eddier
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jun 26, 2006 10:02 pm PT
Review:  Well, it's good. No doubt. 
  
  I play LAN oftentimes which works the way it should, except no half length above 20 minutes. World 
 Cup mode is fun, realistic and all. It's good to play through the qualifiers and even play friendlies 
 leading up to the competition. 
  
  Global Challenge offers some interesting extras to prolong your time spent with the game.
  
 
  I have to say this, the screenshots on Gamespot and terribly misleading. On field, in play, this 
 game looks like any other football/soccer game in the past, but Gamespot's screenshots make it 
 look very styling, which is not the case. 
  
  Nevertheless, plenty of features, great player animations, some lack of player moves, average graphics. 
 But it's fun. That's what counts the most. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eXists
Rating: 6.8
Date: Jun 25, 2006 4:13 pm PT
Review:  The Good  
  - I love soccer
  - Just in time for the World Cup
  - The World Cup Teams
  - New additions to Gameplay
  - No other Soccer games
  - The Soundtrack is pretty good
  
 
  The Bad  
  - Worst game for my 360
  - Nothing Next-Gen; Insult to 360 owners
  - Graphics are so outdated; I couldn't believe it's the latest game
  - BUG 1: commentary is incorrect 
 a lot of time
  - BUG 2: players disappear pretty often when there's an out-ball
  - BUG 3: camera flips when you cross the middle 
  - BUG 4: Disappearing field textures in some 
 locations
  - BUG 5: clipping behind goals
  - BUG 6: etc... other weird things too I can't remember now
  - Cheating AI: Player stats don't 
 count in Global Challenge, comes down to luck to win some matches
  - Global Challenge again; no control of time, a game is supposed to last 10 min when it says 10 
 min
  - Delayed actions, no real-time gameplay, there's a 2 second delay that is extremely frustrating
 
  - Set pieces not well done, much better in previous FIFA games
  - Ball always goes out close to the line when it shouldn't
  - Loading time when new players come 
 in for such bad graphics
  - Menu loading time 
  - Camera angles could be better; more options please
  - Audio is repetitive
  - I even went 
 to exchange it at Best Buy but couldn't
  - In the future, I will only buy an EA game after a VERY THOROUGH CAREFUL REVIEW, no more wasting 
 $60 on such incompetent design and development and testing of a game, how could you miss on so 
 many bugs?!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrod009
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 22, 2006 12:19 pm PT
Review:  Soccer games have always been fun. The first soccer game for the XBOX 360, FIFA 2006: Road to the 
 World Cup, ended the streak of greata soccer games because it lacked many features and it felt 
 like it needed another couple of months to be created. EA expanded on that game, this time focusing 
 on the actual World Cup itself, and made a very entertaining and interesting game. When I first 
 bought this game, the first thing I noticed was the store. You can buy new uniforms, soccer balls, 
 legendary players, or cheats. To earn these points, you have to complete different types of objectives 
 and challenges. The challenges are scenario's; and some are easy while others are difficult. They 
 should keep you busy for a while, and at the end when you complete all of them you earn an acheivement 
 of 500 points. Besides challenges, this game is one of the best if you have a big group of friends 
 over to play against. If you don't, this game has enabled online play so you can challenge others 
 in ranked or unranked matches. Probably the best mode of all is the World Cup Mode, where you have 
 to choose a team, select 23 players from that squad onto your roster, and then guide them all the 
 way to the World Cup. As you get closer and closer to the World Cup, the matches become more difficult. 
 The presentation on these matches are awesome, and make you fell as though you are in the atmosphere 
 of an actual match. EA worked hard on this game, unlike their half-ass effort on NBA Live 06 and 
 the previous soccer game. If you are a soccer fanatic or just enjoy playing the video games, you 
 should buy 2006 FIFA World Cup.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: spartan3669
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 19, 2006 11:15 pm PT
Review:  i love soccer games and this one really made me excited. This game really captures the feel of 
 the world cup in all its glory. The graphics are simply beautiful the players look real and the 
 fans go wild over goals. The refs even look like real people. The AI is good for both sides, However 
 the keepers are not the best the game is very well done and being able to get bonuses for getting 
 achievements is fun. The achievments are a little tricky to get, but its fun trying to get them. 
 This is my favorite soccer game to date and i can not wait till the next one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gunslingers
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jun 18, 2006 5:50 pm PT
Review:  If you bought the first xbox 360 soccer game, it was an ok game. It had a few new things here and 
 there, but it prety much stayed the same as the games before it. The areans looked ok, the players 
 looked ok, the whole game was ok. But this new FIFA game is a lot better. I mean the stadiums look 
 a ton better, the players look a ton better , and every thing in the game is better. There are 
 a lot of new controls, like a lobed through pass ( LT+Y) , A dumy pass (RB Maby??) , and lobed pass 
 (LT+P) . I am berly toching on the huge number of new controls this game offers. This game is a 
 must buy for sports fans!!
  -The Gunslingers 
::::::

::::::
UserName: qwkvck21
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jul 7, 2006 10:50 pm PT
Review:  You can't really enjoy playing a game that feels like the right length because the game gives you 
 horrible selections for the length for each half. It's ridiculous that they have a 2 and 4 minute 
 half choice. What's the point of playing a 2 minute half!!!! Then it jumps from a 10 min half to 
 a 45 min half. It's horrible. A 10 min half is too short if you want to play a real soccer game 
 simulation and 45 min is way to long. We're talking about a 90 min game. I don't understand why 
 they don't give a 15 min or 20 min half selection but they give a 2 min selection. I love playing 
 the game but i can't enjoy it because of this huge problem. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Brianroti
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 18, 2006 8:54 am PT
Review:  This is by far a better game than it's predorcessor FIFA: RTFWC. The gameplay is challenging, those 
 sure-fire headers that always go in, not any more. Those close range shots that the goalies never 
 quite seem to catch up to, gone as well. The new mechanics change the game and force to get better, 
 and trust me when you lose to Japan as some powerhouse team your going to get better. So basically 
 all the cool easy goals you made before forget that your gonna have to work to get the blowout 
 6-1 score. Now the sounds, which include the national anthems for over 100 different countries, 
 the fans uproar after a major tackle their boos after a gruesome tackle brilliant. The graphics 
 are well done for a game that is usually played with a camera floating above. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: axnubis
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jun 18, 2006 4:29 am PT
Review:  FIFA World Cup 2006:
  
  amazing, astonishing, astounding, dazzling, eye-catching, fabulous, fantastic, grand, histrionic, 
 impressive, magnificent, striking, stupendous, super, superb, terrific, top drawer*, tops*, turn-on*, 
 unbelievable, unreal and just plain wicked.
  
  There are 127 national teams in this game, which is astonishing to say the least. Breathtaking 
 stadiums, splendid gameplay with a theatrical atmosphere. Its truly a World Class Soccer game. 
 
  
  Id strongly recommend this game to all soccer fanatics, the only thing missing in FIFA World Cup 
 2006 is Andrs Cantor and his famous signature call of  
  
  As for price value which is usually from $35-$60 Id suggest finding it for the sale price. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zmaleh
Rating: 4
Date: Jun 17, 2006 11:20 pm PT
Review:  u try to pass to a player and he turns the other way!! and what is up with tryin to tackle i tryied 
 to tackle the striker and he spins like im not even pushing him but if the AI is tackling me i 
 loose the ball with the slightest push, and the funny thing is that i even tryed to tackle hard 
 when the players or pushing each other so u can pushin harder although that can cause a foul i 
 gave it a risk and my player stops!!! and tackles the other way!!! IT TURNS AROUND AND TACKLES 
 THE AIR! that is one stupid AI, I love the FIFA series but when u move from Xbox to xbox 360 come 
 on!! you need to imporve the gameplay and not focus mostly on the freaking graphics! also there 
 is a bunch of other glitches and stupid AI moves but its going to take me forever to write down! 
 i hope EA reads! this. I don't like Komanis winning Eleven series but if FIFA does not imporve the 
 gameplay! im going to Winning Eleven, now i know why the ratings say winning eleven has the better 
 gameplay. i gave this game a 4 out of 10 just because the graphics are better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: insanepoopsicle
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 17, 2006 11:32 am PT
Review:  FIFA 06 World Cup is a fun game to play with a group of friends. The gameplay is great, and the 
 graphics are pretty good as well. Brazil's team is a little bit stacked in this game (even more 
 than real life) . All their players are super fast and can tackle and steal the ball well. Adriano 
 and Ronaldinho are insane in this game.
  
  The penalty shoot out mode is fun, but once you figure it out, its way too easy to hit the top 
 corner every time. 
  
  I'd recomend renting this game instead of buying it, because it lacks long term "attention keeping" 
 i should say. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bentleylax2
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 17, 2006 10:03 am PT
Review:  Basically what you need to know is this. The multiplayer is ridiculously fun and though the xboxlive 
 part is shallow, it is still fun. Single player is very fun, and gets harder as you go along. I 
 found myself screaming at the screen in excitement as i was tied 1-1 or 0-0. They said the goalies 
 were bad, but i disagree. They are far better than gamespot gives them credit for, but they arent 
 amazing. They make great saves and play realistically. From the looks of the real world cup anyway, 
 the goalies arent making too many amazing saves. The game looks great, and plays very smoothly. 
 On my HDTV it looks even better, and the lighting is great. You wont see many of the same goals 
 twice just like in Winning eleven, and the player's portray their accurate appearance and capabilities. 
 Its the best soccer game for the 360 BY FAR and is worth a purchase. You wont get bored playing 
 it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sasdan
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 17, 2006 4:26 am PT
Review:  an amazing fifa game but it seems a bit rushed the animations needed a bit more work. but these 
 are the only bad points of the game.
  
  graphics: animations arent that great. player faces and stadiums are brilliant.
  
  gameplay: perfect 
 hardly any lag and easy to control.
  
  sound: great music and in-stadium noises.
  
  life: huge many challenges, you can play the world cup 1 week then you will be wanting 2 play it 
 again the next week.
  
  buy this game!!!!!!!!!
  
  best fifa game ever you wont regret buying it
  
  go on you know you want to.
  
  buy buy 
 buy go on youll love it.
  
  sorry i love this game you dont have to buy it unless you want to. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joeh1995
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jun 16, 2006 4:14 am PT
Review:  In 1994 when the real Fifa World Cup was played in the USA, EA released their first Soccer game. 
 I took a dare and bought it for my Genesis and it became one of my favorite games of all time.
 
  What I find remarkable is how much this game feels like that one. Of course this is much more 
 realistic when you cross the ball your guys do try to header it in. But the general feel as you 
 move the ball up and down the pitch feels the same. Which for an old man like me brings back fond 
 memories of my youth.
  The part I enjoyed the most was taking a team from regional qualiyfing through to winning the cup. 
 It was a long process but I found that it gave me a better understanding of what is required of 
 a real team. 
  On the other hand there were a fair number of flaws. Most notably was from time to time the game 
 freezes after the match when you go back to the main menu. I think I fixed that by turning autosave 
 off. Another thing that upset me was just how stupid the non-user controlled players were. I can't 
 tell you how many time when you pass them the ball they pass it off to the other team or how they 
 just stare at a loose ball in the penalty area. 
  All said and done though this was one of the best soccer titles I have played in years and I am 
 very much looking forward to next years release.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: HRDKyoSaNim
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jun 15, 2006 7:48 pm PT
Review:  Before owning 2006 FIFA World Cup, I had owned FIFA 06: Road to the FIFA World Cup. I bought when 
 it came out, thinking that it was the official game of the World Cup. I was severely mistaken. 
 It was crap!!! You could read the review. This game, 2006 FIFA World Cup, is the one I was expecting. 
 EA fixed the majority of the problems this game's predecessor had, most importantly, lack of content. 
 It has many more teams. Earning points actually makes sense now that they have the FIFA store back 
 in this one, with extra balls, classic players and kits, and etc., to buy using the points you've 
 earned. However, the graphical eye-sores from RTFWC have been fixed, only to be replaced by others. 
 Though there is no more aura around the ball and players, and no more ridiculous ball physics with 
 headers that never make contact with the ball yet change it's course of direction, there are other 
 new problem. We now have balls with metal in them and goalies with magnet gloves, feet going through 
 the ball before it gets launched, and players phasing to the right spot when a through ball is 
 played if they started running, ran too far, and the ball ends up behind them. To be fair, the 
 electromagnetic goalie gloves thing only happened once in the entire time I've played, and the 
 other things are easily forgotten in lieu of the game play. The only gripes that I have with the 
 game play are that: 1) The goalie is still grabbing the ball off of the feet of his defenseman; 
 2) I was in an offside position, put into an onside position before the ball was passed due to 
 the retreat of the last defender, but the game still called me offside. The latter complaint only 
 happened once though, and the former only happens every so often, so these aren't big problems. 
 The game has online capabilities, and has plenty to offer offline as well, giving it huge replay 
 value imo. It offers a very eclectic choice of music from around the world. The commentary however, 
 is both a strong and weak point of this game. While it can be good, it is at many times incoherent 
 with what's actually going on in the game, and will eventually get repetitive. All-in-all, it's 
 a really good game and I think it deserves GS's 8.2 rating. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: theedgepop
Rating: 4
Date: Jun 14, 2006 11:10 am PT
Review:  Well im really surprised the standard of games that are released today!
  
  Wheather you like the gameplay of fifa or not, Fifa World Cup 2006 has some serious bugs and idiotic 
 things that makes almost wanna throw it in the bin.
  
  Some of these problems are:
  
  Even when you have chosen and SAVED one of the controls layout, for some reason it changes to another 
 when u start to play. This is extremely anoying and happens 10-20% of the time you start a match 
 or challenge.
  
  You cant skip subtition cut scenes, the only cut scene in the game u cant skip. takes about 10-15 
 secs. I could accept if it only took a few secs due to some load thing, but they take to long.
 
  
  Camara go competely bananas sometimes. it goes down a few feet off the pitch among the players, 
 and stays in some wired angel down there impossible to play. most of the time u cant see the playes 
 or the ball.
  
  You have to confirm everytime the game wanna save after a match . in a cup. first it promt do you 
 wanna save? YES, wanna overwrite tourn01 file, YES. wanna save awards? YES. wanna overwrite award 
 file? YES!! I CHOSE AUTO SAVE GODDAMMIT!! you even have to chose that is the Hard Drive you wanna 
 save on a lot of the times.
  
  You cant save replays?? aleast i cant see any option anywhere.
  
  GRAPHICS. looks sometimes 
 extremely good, But here they could have done a better. Some framerate problems. Annimations when 
 the match is under way could be better. ball vs feet looks really strange. Would have been nice 
 with a cloth engine like NBA live 2006 & NBA 2k6 have (Just a wish) .
  
  SOUND. Really good, it works.
  
  GAMEPLAY. Can be fun vs a friend. Controls are way to slow, 
 or the playes response to slow. Passing system are really bad. Vs AI gets boring really fast. VS 
 player/AI most goals are scored either by through ball or long Shot outside the box (This is way 
 too easy) . This is not another WE/PES vs Fifa thing, but if you really like Winning Eleven/Pro 
 Evolution Soccer you proberly wont like the gameplay. On the other on hand if you a fan of the 
 FIFA series you proberly gonna like the gameplay.
  
  Xbox Live. OMG it LAGGS so much. Lagg can get so bad the the game is unplayerble. Therefor you 
 would see a lot of the players Live have a high DNF % compared to other games. ... and oh yeah and 
 the camara bug also occours in online matches. And long shot GOAL, long shot GOAL, long shot GOAL. 
 ZZZZZZ 
  
  +Pros: Best Xbox 360 Soccer game, moderate fun vs a friend offline. gameplay (FIFA fans)
  
 
  -Cons: Slow controls, gameplay (WE/PES fans) , Bugs, Extremely BAD Live experince.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Model-007
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jun 13, 2006 5:31 pm PT
Review:  I cannot state how much i hated the older Fifa on the Xbox 360, i dont know why, maybe it was a 
 combination of the terrible graphics, ghastly gameplay and weird sound, anyway EA has changed all 
 that now with its new fifa game ! 
  
  Graphics:
  Best soccer game graphics period. Most player faces look extremely detailed and animation is top 
 class. One can see each beed of sweat on thier faces as the camera zooms in on them during many 
 portions of the match, its really intense ! Crowds look decent and movement of players is really 
 smooth because of the amaing graphics, the ball seems to move ultra realisticly which is awesome.
 
  
  Sound:
  Sound is top notch, from the commentry to the cheering fans. When a goal is scored you can really 
 make out that the crowd is excited, commentry works well with the gameplay but becomes a little 
 repetitive after some time. Apart from that all other sound efffects are very well done as well, 
 you can even hear the goal post shimmer after the ball strikes it ! 
  
  Gameplay:
  This time around EA has tried to clone the gameplay of Pro Evo Soccer, but still tried to keep 
 that charm that the previous Fifa games have had, and the result is absolutely brilliant ! Movement 
 of players is very well and all important stars have their trademark moves available. Most game 
 modes u can think of are included, friendly matches have a ton of cutomizable options and player 
 through the World Cup torunament is a lot of fun ! You can even play every qualifier seperately. Online 
 play is very basic, still single matches fun to play and will keep ypu coming back for more.
  
  All in all this is a very well made game and EA have done a fabulous job. Hands down the best 
 soccer game currently available and even one of the best games on the Xbox 360, a mustve have for 
 football fans, and even if your not a fan of the sport, you should still try it out .
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ninja-Vox
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jun 13, 2006 10:42 am PT
Review:  Well, it's World Cup time once again. And with these months of tension and chaos comes yet another 
 licensed title from EA Sports. It's in the game, don't you know.
  
  Before i begin, let me tell you that EA have easily trumped their last 360 offering; which was 
 simply the definition of "rushed". This time around you can play from the qualifying stages right 
 up to the final itself. None of that "here's a movie of the next ten matches" rubbish which came 
 with "Road to the Fifa World Cup."
  
  So now that we've cleared that up, let's take a look at some details here. As any football fan 
 will know, the big rivalry here is between EA's official games and Konami's Pro Evolution Soccer 
 (or "winning 11" as it is known elsewhere) . EA seems to be operating a system of "if you cant beat 
 'em, join 'em" with their latest offering. For example, moving over to the "Controls" section, 
 a simple button press can set the default controls to match the exact formation of Pro Evolution's 
 button layout. 
  
  While the game is definately the best EA has come up with so far, you cant help but think in the 
 back of your mind that it's still only just up to scratch with Pro Evo, which will inevitably set 
 the bar one step higher once again when it's sixth incarnation arrives this Winter.
  
  But putting the future aside, it's time to look at what FWC does well; and that's atmosphere. The 
 whole epic feel of the tournament is captured in the dramatic opening music, the menu showing the 
 whole planet, zooming into the country you select to play in. Then there's the actual game itself, 
 which is captured brilliantly with an incredibly immersive crowd and some wonderfully accurate 
 stadiums. Score in the last minute and the ground will shake with elated fans, just like in real 
 life. Miss by an inch and hear the gasping of relieved, or disappointed match-goers. It all helps 
 to make the experience feel authentic, and generally speaking it's wonderfully done; Konami take 
 note.
  
  Commentating returns. It's difficult to explain how it feels this time around, however. On one 
 hand the voices are natural, as if taken from real circumstances rather than read from a script. 
 Play an opening friendly and the commentators will chat idly about the game, whereas playing in 
 the tournament itself will bring about optimisitc talk of the team's winning chances. There's still 
 the repetition found with most sports commentaries, in particular with narrow-misses. Four or five 
 times in a single game you'll hear the same opinion of the goal keeper. "Always in the right position, 
 time and time again". Thanks, guys, you said that last time.
  
  The overall pace of the game has increased, with action in the box significantly improved over 
 previous efforts. EA have hit the nail on the head with this part of the game, understanding that 
 fantastic goals can come from luck, rather than skill. That's not to say skill has been over looked 
 however. You still need to use the right tactics, set up your crosses and choose your strikers 
 wisely if you want to reach the final. 
  
  So, downsides. Well, tackling is still a mess. You can keep the pressure on the other team better 
 than the pros themselves, hammering the tackle button as much as you want, to no effect at all. 
 Sliding tackles appear to be a fixed animation, making them very rarely successful. Then there's 
 the passing. It just doesn't work. Frequently you'll be robbed of a perfect play, simply because 
 your player will make a complete farse of a simple pass. You could have a player in space, just 
 waiting to knock it home, but your player will decide he knows best, passing the ball to somebody 
 in a tight spot, or even worse, simply giving the ball away to the other team. It happens far too 
 often, and is quite amazing really when you think of how many games these guys have made over the 
 years. Scruffy work, EA.
  
  Overall though, these gripes only stop this game from reaching it's AAA potential. At the core 
 of it, you have the most authentic, atmospheric simulation of the biggest event in football. Take 
 an under dog team to the finals, or rewrite history if your team isn't so fortunate this year. 
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DouglasBuffone
Rating: 7.6
Date: Jun 11, 2006 4:58 pm PT
Review:  One of the "launch" titles for the Xbox 360 was Fifa 2006 which I have to say was one of the worst 
 launch titles. EA is a company that I generally hate -- they have to make their own online servers, 
 make more than the necessary amount of games for a specific sport, and are just a monopolistic 
 jerk. 
  
  The World Cup is a momentous ocassion everywhere in the world except for the United States. Besides 
 a good showing from the US four years ago and high expectations this year, Americans don't watch 
 the tournament -- which makes them the lone ranger. I personally like soccer only a little bit, but 
 I really enjoy watching the World Cup. When I saw this game at the video rental place I rented 
 it because I obsessive over stuff that I am doing at the present moment. I mean, I almost bought 
 X-Men 3 for the XBox 360 after I saw the movie! Keyword: Almost
  
  I popped the game in, and it startled me how the opening song is like from a war movie. It really 
 gets you in the mood to kick other countries' butts. I started a tournament with England, because 
 I was born there, but was a bit turned off by the damn EA Trax (another good reason to hate EA) . 
 I was saved by my playlist on my Xbox. 
  
  When playing the game I easily became frustrated at the beginning mainly because I don't really 
 understand the rules of soccer. I was slide tackling all over the place and getting all these penalties, 
 and then decided that slide tackling was not a good idea. Besides the game becoming frustrating 
 because of lack of knowledge on my part, the game includes a ridiculous mechanic in the game that 
 makes the experience much harder than it has to be. First off, the player can manually change which 
 player he is controlling on the field, however, many times, the player would switch randomly, which 
 allowed the other team to progress further downfield. That was really annoying, and I really don't 
 understand why this gameplay mechanic is in the game. Second, was the graphics. Well, the player 
 models look really nice up close, but they look abysmal from far away. The environment randomly 
 turns on and off throughout the game. For example, at the beginning of the game there will be dirt 
 and mud and rought patches on the field. However, they will disappear seconds into the game. Then 
 when the halftime or end of game whistle blows, they will magically appear again. It looks terrible.
 
  
  The third thing I don't like about the game is the product placement. EA really needs more money 
 I guess because of all the McDonald's signs in the stadium. Leave it to EA to put that it the game. 
 There defense for that is probably that it makes the game more realistic; however, I would like 
 some more graphical realism during the game and could live without that realism.
  
  The game is a good sports title though. The multiple options allow for a good experience and the 
 online experience is good, except for the stupid EA servers. I mean, they really don't need their 
 own servers when the Xbox Live ones are so reliable. 
  
  Overall, the game is very difficult because of the controls and it takes the player a long time 
 to learn the rules. This game would be much better if it was not the second effort by EA at a soccer 
 game this year. If you have caught World Cup fever, go ahead and rent it, but when the real tournamenet 
 ends you will be happy you can return the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Beinem
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jun 11, 2006 1:57 am PT
Review:  Gameplay - The gameplay is a little hard but it is how it should be, I had some problems with moving 
 the players.. you feel that they're heavy and they move slow.
  
  Graphics - Graphics are propably its best thing, absolutely good.. the movement of the players are 
 realistick but its still a little heavy as I said.
  
  Sound - The sound is what you would expect in a football game... commentry and fans shouting just 
 like a real football match.
  
  So this game all together is alright and its worth its money if you're a football fan..
  
  
 I just forgot to say something (the world cup in the game is awesome, very realistick) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darth_Revan_666
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jun 10, 2006 7:44 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: If you like easy games where you can became good early, this game will pleased you, if 
 you want a lot of deep gameplay with realistic moves, you are gonna to be pissed off after a while. 
 The thing that frustrate me the most it's the lack of responsivness of your player , if you to 
 turn quick in a direction then in an other you are gonna to find a tough time to do it. Although, 
 this fast-paced gameplay is still very fun when you play with your friends.
  
  Graphics: There is no doubt about this game is beautiful , the jerseys , the grass , the faces 
 are extremely well detailed, the only problems are the spectators who look like paper dancing all 
 the same ways .
  
  Sound: the soundtrack is sometimes good , sometimes bad and commentators are doing a very good 
 job of describing the action.
  
  Finally...
  
  If you are a casual gamer who want a fast-paced soccer game, this game will probably make happy. 
 But , if you are Hard-core gamer who love soccer (or football if you want) just pass it or maybe 
 rent it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: slapshot720
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jun 9, 2006 11:44 pm PT
Review:  Its that time of the year, when the world is going nuts over a simple yet fun game, yes the World 
 Cup is here...... too bad your team didn't qualify. BUT WAIT! 2006 Fifa World Cup lets you play 
 as any country, from Colombia to Zimbabwe (I think ?) . Hell, if you want the Americans to win the 
 world cup, then by all means, you go ahead and make them win the world cup. 
  
  While Fifa does not have the graphical awsomeness that games like GRAW and PGR3 have, the graphics 
 are still pleasing to the eye. The lighting effects arent overdone, and each field will have diffrent 
 typed of shadows, grass, dirt patches, and it adds something unique to each field. The player models 
 look very good too, but its too bad that the camera is too far for you to enjoy them.
  
  This game is hard. Look, I don't suck or anything, but this game is just downright hard. I play 
 all sports games, NHL, Madden, NBA, Tiger Woods, Amped, Fight Night, Hell, Even Nascar.... but this 
 game is much more challenging than all of those. It usually seems like they always break my defense. 
 However, its quite nice to actually have a challenge rather than beat the Colombus Blue Jackets 
 8-0. Only flaws in gameplay: Sometimes a pass goes to wrong person, and the goalie AI is mediocre. 
 ONline gameplay : Superb
  
  Sound is definatley a plus in this game. Nice to hear the crowd roar after a goal, or become silent 
 after a goal. 
  
  Fifa is the perfect game for any Soccer Fan, and quite Frankly any Sports Fan... so please... buy 
 it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: obiken
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 8, 2006 8:12 pm PT
Review:  I know there will be a lot of detractors on this game and they will write their reviews just like 
 me. However, I think behind FNR3, this is the most enjoyable sports game on the XBOX360. They will 
 get better. NO IT IS NOT FIFA 2006 for XBOX, nor does it pretend to be. Its is bracketed for World 
 Cup 2006 and thats what it is. You can take your favorite team from the early qualifying stages 
 in 2004 all the way to the World Cup finals. The graphics were great, as were the sound. The commentary 
 was the same as in FIFA 2006. Considering the amount of time they had to work on this game I am 
 surprised they did as well as they did. It is more arcade than sports simulator, but on easy level 
 you can have fun, on hard level you can get your butt kicked by the AI if you are not as patient 
 moving the ball around as David Beckham. I loved this game my only negatives is one more of marketing 
 greed than of this game. It used to be when EA FIFA first came out that you could enjoy league 
 play and World Cup play, with total equality.
  Now we get league every year and a special World Cup game every 4 Why? SHOW ME THE MONEY. That 
 not with standing, I think this is a really good game that can be enjoyed by novice and pro alike. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ocdog45
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jun 8, 2006 7:15 pm PT
Review:  The game pretty much is for international completion soccer fans. Has almost all soccer teams in 
 the fifa organization. Besides the world cup all they really have is scenarios you can play. Fairly 
 the games really go fast even if you put it at the full 45 minute game speed.
  
  Gameplay: the only thing regular soccer fans would complain about is how easy the gameplay is. 
 For some reason people want to make it really difficult. Personally I like it.
  
  graphics; thought the players still look like plastic characters I fine it decent to look at since 
 you have more to worry about than how they look because of all the action.
  
  Overall: I had world cup craze so I got the game and I ended up fairly happy with it.
  
  Buy 
 if youre a fan
  Rent if youre a soccer fan.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: pepechidoone
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jun 7, 2006 9:52 pm PT
Review:  This game is better than it's predecessor, it haves a better gameplay, good graphics and is worth 
 the playing. The games are just as the real life (according to groups and the order each team plays) 
 you just will play as you want with the team that you want to be the cahmpion of the world!
  
  Also the presentation in this game is very good, starting each game, each team is like waiting 
 to the game start, you can see the people in the game exited (but is just the game) . Is like controlling 
 how do you want the World Cup to be who is in and who is out.
  
  The sound also is good, people screams the name of their team, and music is also very, very good!
 
  
  The Gameplay improoved alot comparing with it's predecessor, controls are more innovative, and 
 players are better. I recommend you to try this game, it will be worth it, but if you don't like 
 soccer games, rent it, and maybe you will start liking them. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: billjakybob
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 7, 2006 6:02 pm PT
Review:  Well you would think that this would be a whole lot better than RTWC and it is but it does have 
 a few problems with it that can get real annoying very quickly. This is a great world cup game 
 with tones of options to pick from all the countries you can think of and this time it even has 
 a point system and a passport book, so say you get 3 goals with one player it will give you 250 
 points than you can go to the store in the game a buy different types of unlockable which is cool. 
 The passbook it when you beat a team it stapes there countries crest into it and says that you 
 have beaten them. As i mentioned before that there are some problems some would be like when the 
 opposing team is doing a substitution you have to sit through the whole thing and its about a minute 
 long which is extremely annoying when your really into the game, another is how the opposing team 
 like to pass the bass "A LOT" and its real hard to get around them and you have to push the deek 
 button a certain time for it to work, and in the scenarios Ive noticed that it give you a crappy 
 team to use about 90% of the time when the other team is real or somewhat good.
  
  The Good: The players dont glow like in RTWC, a tone of options in the game, online is real fun, 
 and you can come up with your own tactics.
  
  The Bad: Not as good as it could have been, hard computer defending, couldn't find where to change 
 the difficulty LvL, scenarios are incredible hard at points.
  
  Achievements: Pretty easy to unlock except for the scenario one which you would expect for 500 
 MPs.
  
  Well if you are looking for a great soccer game this isn't the one, Im sad to say that we still 
 have to wait for the great soccer game for the 360 but this game will scratch that it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 09BA8053
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jun 7, 2006 2:58 pm PT
Review:  2006: FIFA World Cup is the best looking soccer game I have ever seen. But it could be better, 
 when you are playing the game you can't see all the details, but when you zoom in for a cut scene 
 the details are great. The sound is also great, and the EA trax are pretty good. The gameplay is 
 great, but the controls take a long time to learn and can be pretty hard play at first. After you 
 learn the controls the game is great. 
  
  I would only recommend this game if you play soccer, or really like soccer games. The game can get 
 boring after a while and their are very few glitches/ bugs (at least none tha I have seen) . I don't 
 think the game is worth the 60 dollars, maybe 55 dollars. It's almost next gen but not quite. It's 
 an all around great soccer game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gohanssj7
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jun 7, 2006 9:13 am PT
Review:  I'm an old football fan & i have played almost all soccer games available on ps2 (the best being 
 FIFA STREET) . The game was awsome with admirable graphics. Now EA are publishing in on xbox 360. 
 Its fascinating. I'm short of funds otherwise i would have already bought it. The gamewplay is 
 awsome and the game looks just fantastic in trailers. They say the goalkeeper's not good. but i 
 dont care. Such a great football games are not available very frequently. But the bad is it will 
 only contain WORLD CUP teams not the leagues. HELL NO. But the quality of sounld & graphics will 
 level it. The detailed body of the players is just awsome. So for me its a must to have coz im 
 a football freak.
  
  PLAY MORE............... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FallOfReach
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jun 6, 2006 1:18 pm PT
Review:  I don't own the game, but I played it at a friend's place and downloaded the demo from XBL. The 
 graphics and sound are great. It does make you feel like you're in Germany. A few negatives stick 
 out in my mind though. I think that you should be able to hear the player's dialogue when they're 
 arguing with the refs or after goals. I don't like the way only their mouths move and no sound 
 comes out. Also, as someone who knows a lot about soccer, I think the players should be spread 
 out more throughout the pitch. Especially with the defenders, when I have the ball, I feel like 
 they make 5 yard passes and I don't seem to make a lot of the progress when I'm switching the field.
 
  The gameplay is amazing. The gamespot site says that the goalies are bad, but I haven't found 
 them to be a problem. It's actually hard to score goals. In previous FIFA games the scores could 
 get really high, but here, I still haven't seen a game where either teams scores more than 3 goals.
 
  Once I have the cash, this game is next on my list. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: clcougars33
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jun 5, 2006 7:01 pm PT
Review:  A little over five weeks from now, the 2006 FIFA World Cup will kick off in Munich when the tournament's 
 German hosts take on Costa Rica. Recent player injuries are already providing plenty of pre-tournament 
 drama, but if you really want to get your experience under way a month ahead of time, you can claim 
 the FIFA World Cup Trophy for your country in EA Sports' 2006 FIFA World Cup. EA Canada's latest 
 football offering does a good job of re-creating the carnival atmosphere that surrounds every World 
 Cup competition, and although the Xbox 360 game still lacks some of the best features from its 
 PlayStation 2 and Xbox counterparts, it's a much easier game to recommend than last year's FIFA 
 06: Road to FIFA World Cup. Gameplay options in 2006 FIFA World Cup include quick matches, online 
 play, practice sessions, and penalty shoot-outs. In addition to those football game staples, you 
 also get global challenge scenarios and, of course, a chance to guide your favorite international 
 team through the World Cup competition. The World Cup mode will almost certainly be your first 
 port of call, and although its default settings see you assuming control of one of the 32 teams 
 that qualified for the finals, it's possible to play as any of around 125 different teams from 
 all over the world. Furthermore, you have the option to take your chosen team through the relevant 
 territory's qualification process or to jump straight to the last 32 teams using real or randomly 
 generated group information. The presentation throughout the World Cup mode, and throughout the 
 entire game, is great. Before each match you'll see a camera, which is positioned somewhere in 
 orbit around the Earth, zoom in on the appropriate German stadium, and then you'll be treated to 
 flybys of the grounds where it looks like almost every supporter in the crowd came through the 
 turnstiles armed with streamers, confetti, and balloons. You'll also get to listen to one of the 
 game's many licensed songs, which come from an eclectic soundtrack spanning some 14 countries. 
 Good pre-match commentary replete with World Cup trivia and anecdotes is the icing on the cake, 
 and as your players line up on the pitch before kickoff, you feel both excited and nervous at the 
 same time -- exactly as you'd expect to before a real match. 
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DFT8
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jun 1, 2006 3:26 pm PT
Review:  has a online game this rocks!!! very fun to see how you are against other players in the world! see 
 how you good you are! when it comes to single player the game loses some of its value! its very fun 
 tho! but you get tired of playing games just with other teams and stuff! you can go right to a penalty 
 shootout but this wouldnt help much!! its very fun 2 player and me and my buddys are pkaying whole 
 games 2x45 min! this is very very fun and its even more fun when you have more than 4 players!: Djust 
 bloody awesome! the difficulty rating is low! if you want a challange you have to go over semi-pro! thats 
 for sure!! many countries/teams it helps to the game but loses again its value over time!
  
  i recomend this game to beginner fotballers with an xbox! the graphics are awesome! to experienced 
 players this is a game that you could get tired of right away but its fun 4 like 4 to 10 hours! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: txbagz4fun
Rating: 8.2
Date: May 31, 2006 4:55 pm PT
Review:  This is my first ever purchase of a soccer game since sega saturn and trust that was a long time 
 ago. Fifa has slick graphics with good character animations that makes the in-game play more realistic. 
 The gameplay is easy to pick up and goes over all fundementals of soccer. World cup mode is exciting 
 when playing at a challenging difficulty mode. Sound is good but reptitive voice overs by the commentators. 
 A wide menue in music with tons of songs from all over the globe. At the end fifa delivers alot 
 of good gameplay, but it seems its still only made for die hard soccer fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mena
Rating: 7.9
Date: May 30, 2006 4:42 pm PT
Review:  The game is amazing but that's only compared to their total failiar with the road to world cup. 
 The game play is good, but not the next generation game play but definatlely an improvement fromt 
 he other fifas. The graphics were a TOTAL disappointment to me because theyre only in 480P, so 
 i don't see why ppl should't enjoy it on xbox when it's cheaper. The comentary is also and improvment 
 and accurate, as opposed to these commentary that lag behind the plays. Overall the game is highly 
 addictive and fun when played in multiplayer. 
  
  One new thing EA added were the global chalanges, which capture old time intense soccer moments 
 between rival teams. 
  
  The game is awsome, but if u have an xbox buy it for xbox because the 360 graphics are the same 
 since it's only running at 480P. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LEGOslayer
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 18, 2006 3:46 pm PT
Review:  When I first bought this game at Best Buy for $65, I did not know what to expect. I have played 
 every Fifa since the ultimate in soccer of Fifa '98. So far I was dissapointed. Then I played world 
 cup '06. Not only are the graphics extremely realistic, but the content is amazing. Everything 
 is there, from Ronaldinho's long locks, to Landon Donovans self-centerdness. The only problem as 
 far as these amazing looks go is when showing the little intro thingy at the bottom, the players 
 face is not the same. During play, it took me fifteen minutes to learn how to do everything. It 
 is a super fast learning curve. This is the first time I won the penalty shot. As far as sound, 
 there is the problem. The British announcers are cool, but they are super annoying. I've heard 
 the same the US will someday watch football in their millions if they can get some World Cup ritches 
 lime 30 times. There is no diversity of announcements in this game. the crowd sounds okay but they 
 always cheer for the wrong team. This game is definentially worth playing. It's replay value is 
 very high to me. This game rules.
  
  If there is a soccer game that revolutionizes Next-Gen, Wold Cup 2006 is that game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrxpimpinx
Rating: 8.3
Date: May 30, 2006 12:51 am PT
Review:  Everyone is complaining about how laggy the online game is, but with this game, you don't even 
 need online. It is a solid game with good gameplay. The AI is the best i have seen on any FIFA 
 game. You actually have to work to take the ball away from the computer and not get booked. You 
 don't even have to know/like soccer in order to enjoy this game. An overall good game and i would 
 definately buy it. Though if your unsure about it or haven't liked FIFA games in the past, but 
 it used or wait for the price to drop. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: krayziegunts
Rating: 7.8
Date: May 29, 2006 10:37 pm PT
Review:  they didnt have the time to include the authentic Jamaican uniforms.. thats why this game recieved 
 a bad grade from me. Lagging online games and more features should be fixed for next years release. 
 Graphics is great too, the field doesnt look as good as Road to the World Cup.. could have been 
 better... hopefully next year they drop the old engine because it shares the same prototype as the 
 current gen.... drop the current gen EA Sports ! I keep losing online and alot of the times the 
 connection just dissapear. Another gripe that I had was that when I saved my Squads when I go to 
 play online it was back to default. This game should and could have been way better 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Themilkman418
Rating: 8.7
Date: May 28, 2006 2:13 pm PT
Review:  FIFA 2006 World Cup is a great game that is a definite buy for any soccer fan and should still 
 be considered by anyone else. FIFA 2006 World Cup has many different countries and never gets stale. 
 Although there has been talk about poor AI the countries play the way the gamer would picture them 
 to be, England plays better then Chad, does that mean the AI is stale? No that just means the game 
 is what it should be.
  
  The game grows on you and even if you are not a die-hard soccer fan it is still worth the buy. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zyberbob
Rating: 8.6
Date: May 27, 2006 3:55 am PT
Review:  Ok... this game is great, it's a big improvement over the last one, any thank god they added 45 
 min half again, that just rocks when you play with at mate, but still i wanna be able to save my 
 replays.!! come on give me that now... and whats up with the you have to see when you make a substitute, 
 you see the player run out the field and the new player run in, and you can skip it, thats 15 sec 
 of my life wasted... but all in all it's great i have all FIFA games i love em. but they still 
 need to do a bit more before they are perfect. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: badboyx5
Rating: 3.9
Date: May 25, 2006 2:56 pm PT
Review:  ok lets see so far EA had great games and this on is by far the best world cup in its series, but 
 whats going on with the glitches, AI is even more stupid then the AI for the game BLACK!!! u try 
 to pass to a player and he turns the other way!! and what is up with tryin to tackle i tryied to 
 tackle the striker and he spins like im not even pushing him but if the AI is tackling me i loose 
 the ball with the slightest push, and the funny thing is that i even tryed to tackle hard when 
 the players or pushing each other so u can pushin harder although that can cause a foul i gave 
 it a risk and my player stops!!! and tackles the other way!!! IT TURNS AROUND AND TACKLES THE AIR! 
 that is one stupid AI, I love the FIFA series but when u move from Xbox to xbox 360 come on!! you 
 need to imporve the gameplay and not focus mostly on the freaking graphics! also there is a bunch 
 of other glitches and stupid AI moves but its going to take me forever to write down! i hope EA 
 reads! this. I don't like Komanis winning Eleven series but if FIFA does not imporve the gameplay! 
 im going to Winning Eleven, now i know why the ratings say winning eleven has the better gameplay. 
 i gave this game a 4 out of 10 just because the graphics are better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SamuraiGreen
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 24, 2006 11:24 am PT
Review:  This is the Best fifa game to date. Its a lot of fun it has excellent graphics and just great gameplay. 
 What i disagree on gampspot is that the goalies are FREAKIN TOUGH to get through. The presentation 
 is cool the music is nice the atmosphere of the game is great. Its a really fun soccer game. I 
 recommend anybody who loves soccer and enjoys the world cup pick this game up. Especially if you 
 have a 360. It has really cool looking celebrations and Intrductions. Players look amazingly real. 
 There is a lot to do in this so enjoy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tischla
Rating: 8.3
Date: May 22, 2006 1:16 pm PT
Review:  This is a great soccer game with great gameplay and alot of replayability. the controls are easy 
 to learn, difficult to master. the acheivements are difficult but possible and very rewarding. 
 taking fee kicks from far away does not give you many options, and that is a flaw. aking free kicks 
 tha you can score on thogh, are more complex, a bit awkward, but once a gain, easy to learn, difficult 
 to master. there arent too many extra options but the gameplay definately makes up for it. thers 
 a nice extra bit of unlockable stuff to get. overal, the gameplay is an above average, but the 
 everything else is about average 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sagapo
Rating: 7
Date: May 22, 2006 10:13 am PT
Review:  Being a PES fan myself, i wanted to try Fifa World Cup since it got some good reviews. When first 
 playing the game, I was kinda suprised in a way that the gameplay felt like PES. But after playing 
 for some hours, Fifa couldn't hide the fact that the gameplay is still "Fifa". Scoring is way to 
 easy, even on the hardest difficulty. PLaying online with this game avoids that problem off course, 
 but then you start to get frustrated over the EA servers. "Lost connection to host" is something 
 you see a lot. 
  The graphics are pretty good although the players have a certain "alien-ish" look. 
  In the end, 
 Fifa World Cup ain't all that bad, but for me, PES 5 keeps the lead.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mocha360
Rating: 8.3
Date: Aug 17, 2006 9:29 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay:
  Maybe not as good winning eleven but still fantastic, a big improvement over road to the world 
 cup for the 360
  
  Graphics:
  Very good, theres great animations, and the cut-scenes look awesome but the graphics on the field 
 look just above average
  
  Sound:
  Theres great on the field sound an the crowd gets fired up after big plays, and the announcing 
 is awesome if you can handle the british accent for a half-hour
  
  Value:
  You have a game that will last you a while, although theres no fifa lounge mode or some sort of 
 manager mode
  
  Tilt:
  The fast-paced gameplay will have you coming back for more, and the online is almost lag-free
 
  
  Overall:
  If your a soccer fan you owe it to yourself to play this game, im not even that much of a soccer 
 fan, and i loved this game!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blkgto
Rating: 8.9
Date: May 15, 2006 9:44 pm PT
Review:  2006 FIFA World Cup is without a doubt one of the best soccer games I have ever played... and I 
 hate soccer. Yet something about this game makes me unable to put down the controller, even though 
 I suck so bad it hurts. 
  
  When it comes to gameplay options, FIFA does not disappoint. Everything that one would expect from 
 a stellar sports game can be found in FIFA, including 125 world teams. You can choose to play a 
 quick match, hop straight into world cup mode (my czech team is currently 1-1) and there are even 
 challenges for one to beat for points to spend in the store. 
  
  I do have a problem with the interface. There have been UI's that have been much more of a pleasure 
 to navigate. For example, I cannot find where to change difficulty level, and at this point I am 
 not sure you can. The camera angle is also somewhat of a disappointment. While you can apparently 
 change camera angles, none of them are different enough that you will be able to notice, and the 
 camera is so far from the field, I wish I could get in a little bit closer, yet even after fiddling 
 with the zoom in feature, I realized it wasnt going to make a difference. The camera simply does 
 not move. 
  
  The graphics are pretty good, the world cup game greets the player with confetti, balloons, and 
 screaming yelling fans as the teams take the field. Even the confetti and balloons litter the outskirts 
 of the field, giving it a more genuine effect. The sound is quite impressive, with the drums at 
 the pre-game line up thumping and the announcer jabber is good too, though can be repetitive at 
 times. 
  
  The gameplay can be a pain in the *** at first, I still havent quite figured out the controls, 
 but I am sure that a few more hours at it, and I will probably have it figured out. All in all, 
 if you can be patient enough to get the hang of the game, I think it can be agreed that FIFA can 
 provide a great deal of entertainment, and it feels to me to have a great deal of replayability. 
 FIFA should keep me entertained for a decently long time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: simbasa
Rating: 8.1
Date: May 14, 2006 1:07 pm PT
Review:  you say it's too hard.. then you say it's too easy. put it on world class difficulty then put on 
 slow gameplay. then put on 'new analog controls'. and there you will have the closest thing to 
 winning 11 9 on default difficulty. i friggin guarantee it. and less frustrating than winning 11's 
 cheap ai. i compared the 2 for a week playing both at the same time... switching back and forth. 
 this is not quite as deep gameplay but less frustrating than winning 11. absolutley cheap calls 
 in w-11 on default.. you will not find that here. not even on world class difficulty. add to that 
 the extra wide angle views thatr you can't get with winning 11.. cuz' it's not in hd 16:9 format 
 and this game overall is more fun. better presentation as well. i have always played winning 11 
 series and this is just more fun. sorry but if you think the winning11 ai is not cheap on default 
 setting.. then you know nothing of ai programming and games. this is solid. it could be better 
 but playing soocer games with a wide angle view will never hae the best graphics 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jackass_armarni
Rating: 6.8
Date: May 13, 2006 10:32 am PT
Review:  Great Graphics, good gameplay, horrificably hard.
  The next world cup game has certainly improved on fifa 06, with improved graphics, ball physics 
 (ball movement) and the re-introduction of star players last seen in the 2002 world cup game appeared 
 to have made fifa 06 world cup a fun lasting game.
  However benieth the surface several problems lie in wait. To get a massive 500 of the 1000 points 
 in achievements you need to complete the 40 world cup moments. At first they seem easy enough, 
 you can simply dribble through everyone and slot it past the over easy keeper. But to complete 
 the last scenario in each continent requires more than just skill. IT IS SIMPLY TOO HARD!!! Some 
 of them you have to score 4 goals in a half (providing the opostion doesn't score) on what appears 
 to be world class difficulty. Keeper seems to save any shot (thats saying you get the chance to 
 have a shot) the defenders seem to get the ball of you with too much ease. Forget dribbling the 
 only way to score is crosses into the box. Their counterattacks are riddiculous. One second you 
 can inside their six yard box the next one 4 passes later you in a 10 on one situation and them 
 having scored.
  Other problems consist of the keepers being to easy on earlier levels. (On semi pro to score from 
 a free kick you only need to kick it at the keeper and he will drop it into his net. I kid you 
 not.
  A few graphical glitches, at the end of matches the ground apears to crack all over the place as 
 extra textures are rendered.
  NO FIFA LOUNGE. Why does EA constantly take out some of the modes for the xbox 360 that other versions 
 have. And if you want to create a tournament forget it thats gone too.
  Overall if your looking for a quality game wait for Pro evolution 6 (winning eleven 2007) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KugarWeb
Rating: 3.6
Date: May 13, 2006 10:10 am PT
Review:  It all looks really good with the graphics and everything, but the huge disappointment comes when 
 you come to load the games (times are terrible!) and especially when playing certain parts when 
 it glitches all over the place. For example, after winning the World Cup, it stalled and players 
 disappeared with the world cup trophy in mid air... oh dear!! Also, what's with the feature of reviewing 
 and saving replies being non existant? I'm so glad I never have or will buy this game, thankfully 
 I only wasted 4.50. Overall not a brilliant game at all... in fact I rate it worse than RTWC simply 
 because of more glitches and some of the best features being taken out.... what has happened to 
 EA in recent years? They seem hellbent on releasing games before they're finished and grabbing 
 as much revenue as possible. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: odie05
Rating: 3.1
Date: May 10, 2006 5:46 am PT
Review:  this game was a totall skank. I mean if your gonna try and make money off the world cup, do it 
 properly, not in a shady blackmarket underhand fashion. For a start the music is dire, for seconds... 
 HOW ABOUT SOME ONLINE SUPPORT!!!! 
  
  check this for more insight into this situatuion:
  
  http://footballcommunity. ea. com/forum/viewtopic. php? t=24131
  
  not only does the game have 
 glitches and lags, but you cant host a friggin game!!
  
  if your gonna create a game for the world cup, do it properly or dont do it at all. This has totally 
 ruined my faith in buying any EA sports tilte, just gonna have to wait till pro ev 6.
  
  Jon 
::::::

::::::
UserName: adnan20061
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 9, 2006 4:51 pm PT
Review:  I must say this is one of the best games fifa has made so far. I have Road to World cup and this 
 one fixes all the little things Road TWC didn't get right. The menu is probably the best I have 
 ever seen on a soccer game. You can look at the globe and choose out your country. There are bunch 
 of game modes and you can unlock dozens and dozens of things everything from soccer balls to historic 
 players. The games graphics are amazing, especially if you have a HDTV. Some of the good things 
 I like about this game would be The Menu, Game Modes, Unlock able stuff, Sounds is amazing on a 
 surround system, and Graphics are awesome. Some of the thing that made me a little disappointed 
 was the dribbling (for some reason there are about 6 different ways to dribble the ball) , Some of 
 the players don't look the same and as a matter of fact they look totally different then in real 
 life this is only some rare players no one knows about, If you don't unlock Perfect Difficulty 
 its really easy giving a goal even set to world class (once you unlock perfect difficulty, then 
 the fun starts) , I also don't like that there are just a few ways you can give a goal it would 
 be awesome if you could perform some kind of cool kick or something and score (also I haven't seen 
 a bicycle kick yet) ..... Over all this game is awesome and if you have a HDTV and love soccer its 
 a must get. :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hoosin91
Rating: 3.8
Date: May 9, 2006 10:59 am PT
Review:  I went and bought this game wanting to play it quite badly after just compleating FIFA ROAD TO 
 WORLD CUP. I started playing and that same miniute i already had some downs about it.
  
  First off the graphics, i thought the graphics of FIFA ROAD TO WORLD CUP were better and secondly 
 the way you could not change the time per each half which meant i had to play about 6-8 miniutes 
 each half which was kind of annoying.
  
  So i thought i would play it for a while and give it a chance, so i did. I won the world cup in 
 about 2-3 hours with England and that was it TOOK IT BACK the same day. 
  
  And that was the end of another boring E. A football game.
  
  Hoosin91 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TMalchau
Rating: 3.5
Date: May 3, 2006 7:39 am PT
Review:  Before I bought this game for my Xbox 360, I read the quite bad reviews the game has gotten. I 
 decided to try it out anyway, because my last FIFA game is more than two years old and for PS2.
 
  
  I started by playing a the FIFA World Cup on amateur and beat every team by at least 5 goals. Then 
 I decided to crank it up a bit and tried semi pro. I still won, but oh my god the games were boring. 
 The computer only focused on not losing the ball. Even if it's on the edge of the penalty box, 
 and a defender comes in his way he turns around and start dribbling away from goal again, instead 
 of trying a shot or some impossible dribbling like in real life. It's very hard to take the ball 
 away from the computer. When you finally get the ball, it's quite easy to score. It's just not 
 funny running around after a very passive computer opponent, for almost all the game.
  
  The multi-player part isn't very different from any other football game, so that shouldn't be the 
 reason to buy game.
  
  ... Neither should the graphics. The presentation to the each game look very nice, but when the 
 game starts, it looks like every other soccer game I tried in the last few years on any platform. 
 Very disappointing, knowing what the 360 can do. Of course some players look very life like up 
 close, but that's not something you notice that much when the ball rolls. The menus are very boring. 
 When you are between games in the FIFA World Cup part, you don't get any feeling that you are a 
 part of one of the biggest sports events in the world.
  
  The sound is what it should be in a football game, but only just that. The atmosphere in the games 
 are ok, but it's just the same noise of people. Some teams have special chanting though. The commentators 
 sound as stupid and repetitive as in any other sports game.
  
  Because this is the only world cup game on the market, many (including myself) will buy this game, 
 no matter what they read in the reviews. My recommendation is to buy another game, which has gotten 
 good reviews and play, to pass time, until the real world cup starts, and forget all about this 
 game. I know I will.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: baztripot
Rating: 6.5
Date: May 1, 2006 5:32 am PT
Review:  it's still better than Road to Fifa but still sucks after a while. the game difficulty doesn't make 
 any sense. it's too easy to play on Amateur, but painfully frustrating if you set it on Semi-Pro. 
 the computer AI will keep control of the ball 80% of the time and you will have to foul most of 
 the time you want to get it back. It's almost impossible to get inside the penalty box and when 
 you finally do, the goalkeeper will save it 9 times out of 10.
  
  the other playing mode : Global Challenge might have been a good idea but falls short. It's a series 
 of game situations that you need to complete but there are 2 major problems. the difficulty cannot 
 be changed in this mode, so casual gamers should not even think about it. you really need to be 
 good at it. but the main problem is, you are put in past situations like a game between England 
 and Germany that happenned 10 years ago. Except that the players on each team are current players. 
 so it doesn't really make any sense.
  There was a mode like that in ESPN NFL 2k5 , but on each team you had the real players with their 
 real rating at the time (even though they did not use their names, just the #) .
  
  Online mode : another disappointment. frame rate is pretty stable but once in the lobby, I couldn't 
 challenge anyone for a game without adding them to my friend's list first, WTF ? then, there's 
 the gameplay. everyone plays with Brazil or England with always the same strategy : attack on the 
 wing and a cross to finish with a header. over and over and over. 
  
  EA once again falls short of creating a good soccer experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sgt_tickles
Rating: 4.8
Date: May 1, 2006 1:29 am PT
Review:  I know how many people have been waiting for this game. I had to ring 4 different EB stores around 
 Sydney to manage to secure a copy on release day. 
  
  Well was it worth the wait?
  
  Unfortunately thats a yes and no answer. Yes because it is the best FIFA to come out on the X360 
 (albeit the 2nd one!) , online play is fun and challenging and there are a lot of teams available 
 to choose from with indepth squads at your disposal. EA have really focussed on those details to 
 make this game all the more immersive. And no because it is disappointing that there is no other 
 modes to choose from besides world cup mode and the world challenge mode and the graphics just 
 dont cut it.
  
  When it comes to the actual gameplay, I dont think there is a huge leap forward from FIFA06. Sure 
 it is starting to feel more like Winning Eleven but I guess you can say its more of a combination 
 of Winning Eleven and FIFA06. It doesnt feel like you can score anyway you like either. Pretty 
 much all the goals i score are crosses or one on ones.
  
  The graphics were a let down for me. Yeh sure they look good if your used to seeing current gen 
 graphics. But this is next gen! RTWC looked way better (although it did suffer severely from frame 
 rate issues) . What happened to the great looking grass? Come on EA, if 2KSports can produce next 
 gen graphics in NBA2k6 and your very own FN3 can produce next gen graphics.... whats up with FIFA? 
 It is the most played sport in the world, yet it seems far behind in polish and actual next gen 
 looks than any other sports title ive seen.
  
  I guess EA has just left the door open for Winning Eleven to go for goal. If they pull off an amazing 
 next gen product I know what I'll be trading in... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nikeportugal
Rating: 7.1
Date: May 24, 2006 7:07 am PT
Review:  EA Sports... this is a message to you... enough is enough.
  
  How long do you expect us to endure this type of buggy gameplay and COMPLETE oversights on your 
 part?
  
  The TWO WORST things about this game is in the Review Description. 
  
  First. You CAN NOT change your squads in the actual "SQUADS" screen within Qualification Mode. 
 It will give you only about 2 pages of players! In the squads menu on the screen that you start 
 the game in... it will let you adjust your squads with 4 pages of players (for Portugal anyway) .
 
  
  So when in Qualification Mode.. the only place you can actually adjust your squads to what you 
 actually want with ALL OF YOUR PLAYERS.. is in the Pre-Match screen before each match you play... 
 here it gives you the full 4 pages of players to choose from.
  
  This RIDICULOUS oversight means that you have to spend maybe 5 minutes or so changing your starting 
 11 and subs to what you actually want them to be... depending on how close the default squads are 
 to your actual starting 11 + subs.
  
  The SECOND TRAVESTY in this game is the ONLINE PLAY... WHAT ONLINE PLAY?!?!? I think to qualify 
 as online play.. you have to be able to COMPLETE at least HALF of your games! 
  
  As of right now.. I've probably played about 100+ games of FIFA online... My ranking is something 
 like 17-6. What does that tell you? That something like 80% of my games are losing connection to 
 my opponent. I don't know if it's just **** coding or **** servers... but it's just plain WRONG!!
 
  
  The funny part is that it seems that some of the ONLY times I complete a game, I happen to be losing... 
 lol.. it's never like I get a break and I lose connection when I'm losing anyway.. I've probably 
 had my first lost connection while i'm losing just a few minutes ago... the rest of the time I 
 remember being on the winning side.. just to have the game disconnect to my opponent.
  
  Either way.. not being able to complete almost ALL OF THE GAMES I PLAY ONLINE... is HORRID.. whether 
 I'm on the winning or losing side at the time.
  
  There are lots of other little things to bug you about the game as well.. through balls in the 
 air to the wings.. sometimes your players will be right on patch with it and all they have to do 
 is trap the ball.. but they just .. let it pass them... and then they change their run to go try 
 and catch it before it goes out of bounds.. but most of the time.. they don't make it.. it's pretty 
 stupid... if they just stop the ball with their foot it would be fine.. but .. they don't.. 
  
  That is one example of many.
  
  The good?
  
  Graphics are ok.. the camera angle changes 
 randomly though between a veery zoomed out view .. and a normal one (I use Tele view) .
  
  The shooting is a little better ... but not on headers where you have to apply a ridiculously quick 
 touch to keep the ball under the bar, otherwise you'll see A LOT of headers go into the stands 
 from what should be a GREAT heading position.
  
  To put it bluntly... this is a HORRIBLE game.. save your money.. EA need to learn SOMETIME... I 
 mean .. the two worst parts of this game SHOULD HAVE BEEN CAUGHT by the testers... It is INEXCUSABLE!!
 
  
  I really don't know what else to say... when a game just makes you VERY VERY VERY VERY ANGRY... 
 instead of being fun... you'd have to say they did it ALL WRONG!
  
  EDIT BY THE USER BELOW!!!
  
  Well since this review they changed their servers so they don't 
 suck ass.. that bumbs pretty much all my ratings up.
  
  The game is still way to easy.. there are still lots of annoying bugs.. 
  
  But being able 
 to play online consistently is pretty much all I can ask of any good soccer game and for the most 
 part they've allowed us to do that by fixing the issues that were plagueing it before.
  
  Rating goes from 4 to 7.1 for me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jaymacca05
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 30, 2006 9:02 am PT
Review:  Once i got the game, i seen Frank Lampard on the front and i was about to smash the case up. Thank 
 god i didn't! It is a very good game if u want a realistic experience with passion and fun. As 
 it is the official World Cup game, expectations are very high and people may have there own opinion 
 on how they went about on creating this game. But its almost like watchin the real thing. The commentary 
 is generally good, the unlockables sound fantastic and i can't wait to try to unlock new balls 
 and stadiums etc. This is a 'one to buy' and i hope everyone enjoyed the experience as much as 
 i did!
  
  Jay 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OveKindvall
Rating: 7.3
Date: Apr 30, 2006 6:32 am PT
Review:  I have played the X360 version.
  The first few days it seems to be a great game. But after a few days I noticed some faults and 
 I get annoyed by that.
  
  A few examples, and to me the most annoying ones:
  - You can change the squad in squad management. When I saved it and looked at the subs there are 
 different subs then I selected.
  - What is the purpose of "Tactics" because you can not change them or assign them to another button.
 
  - You can save your button configuration, but everytime when I startup the game and play a new 
 World Cup the button configuration is back to default.
  This is also happening whe you're playing the Global Challenge. When you goto a new challenge sometimes 
 the button configuration is changed.
  - When you start a World Cup you have to select 23 players. So I did that and everytime I have 
 different names in my squad then the one I selected. Not the starting 11 but in the subs. For all 
 I can see you must have 3 GK (that's an official rule) , 7 DF's, 7 MF's and 6 FW's. Why I only want 
 6 DF's and 8 MF's....
  - When someone is suspended during the World Cup he's removed from your squad and replace by another 
 player from outside the 23 selected players...
  
  Some minor things:
  - The ref is writing in his hand (again I saw that in an earlier version of Fifa)
  - Sometimes 
 you see the last fragment of an earlier cutscene before the new one begins.
  
  It's of course not all negative. The game looks very good, official licenses (including for example 
 the new Dutch jersey's) . Sound is ok. It was better when the national anthems were in front of 
 the match and not after the match is played but there in the game. And the only from the team who 
 has won. Menu looks good. Gameplay is not natural like WE/PES series but is fun.
  
  Overall it's a nice game to have next to a PES/WE game. But the price, I have paid 62, is to high. 
 Would be nice if the game was around the 40. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: commanderleon
Rating: 8.4
Date: Apr 30, 2006 3:12 am PT
Review:  The good: Great visual presentation with all the stadiums; engaging campagin mode: lead your squad 
 from the qualifiers to the final in Berlin; fun solo and in multiplayer.
  
  The bad: No player editing; formation changes won't carry over to the next game; some camera quirks.
 
  
  It's any football fan's dream come true, and it's only a couple of weeks away -- the FIFA World 
 Cup hosted by Germany this summer. Here to quench your thirst for even more football goodness is 
 "2006 FIFA World Cup", courtesy of EA Sports. Believe it or not, but this is actually the fourth 
 FIFA game (if you count the "Street" series) to hit store shelves in the last couple of months; 
 if nothing else, EA knows how to milk this cow. That aside, WC2006 is a great game in its own right; 
 and it's basically what last winter's "Road to World Cup" should have been.
  
  Let's get it straight: There are no club sides in this game -- if you want your Manchester United, 
 youve got to stick with your previous FIFA games. What you do get is an impressive number of national 
 squads, though  just short of 200, that is. From England to the Solomon Islands, theyre all included. 
 This makes it possible to play the regional qualifiers from any part of the world; if youre feeling 
 like leading Fiji to World Cup glory, heres your chance. Of course, you can opt to skip the qualifiers 
 entirly and head straight for the trophy, but, wheres the fun in that?
  
  The main game mode is simply called World Cup, and it introduces an immersive campaign that has 
 you tweaking formations, scouting competitors and studying individual player stats for your upcoming 
 games. It sort of plays like a managing simulation, sans all the number-crunching. Its fun, engaging 
 and well implemented, but not without its flaws. The most glaring bug is that editing your squad 
 wont carry over from one game to another. You see, me being Viennese, I started a campaign with 
 Austria. Since the default starting eleven was outdated, I had to make adjustments  which didnt 
 carry over  so I had to re-adjust my starting eleven before every single match. Granted, this 
 is mostly a problem with squads of lesser prominence, since rosters of grand nations as Brazil, 
 Germany and Italy are up to date. Still, its a tedious chore and its unexplainable to me why 
 this simple feature wasnt implemented. Heres to hope well see a patch soon.
  
  Those flaws aside, WC2006 is simply amazing once youre on the pitch. Graphics have been overhauled 
 and feature brilliant stadium effects (detailed crowds; confetti flying from the stands; nice dynamic 
 shadows and lighting) ; unfortunately, the frame rate still tends to take a dip or two during replays 
 (but its not half as bad as it was in RTWC) . Sound-wise youre treated to some pretty noisy crowd 
 chants and a mostly competent commentary couple (though you cant shake the feeling that youve 
 heard some of their slogans before) ; plus a cosmopolitan soundtrack featuring artists such as the 
 Black Eyed Peas and Mattafix.
  
  Last but not least, gameplay: Controls havent changed much in comparison to previous games, with 
 one exception: The shot button no longer determines the power of your shot, but instead the height: 
 Tapping the button will result in a low shot, whereas holding the button will see you hammering 
 the ball just under the crossbar. Its a welcome change and becomes second nature after a couple 
 of minutes.
  
  Overall, this is a great game with brilliant presentation. Though minor flaws rear their ugly head 
 from time to time, those ultimately dont get in the way of gameplay -- which makes World Cup 2006 
 an enjoyable hors doeuvre before the real thing in June. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: craigjeffery82
Rating: 4.7
Date: Apr 30, 2006 3:04 am PT
Review:  This is by far the worst football game of the year. Ok Fifa 06 RTWC was a little dissapointing 
 but this is worse. The graphics don't belong on a 360 for starters. There flat and not very realistic 
 in movement and looks. I found the gameplay enjoyable but the players are a bit slow to respond. 
 
  The lack of create your own leagues and tournaments is a massive let down because the game just 
 doesn't last long enough. The scenarios are a good feature and England lifting the world cup is 
 nice, but they are the only good parts of this very nasty game. I traded in Fifa 06 RTWC for this 
 game and paid 20 quid aswell. I wish i hadn't bothered. Fifa World Cup 2006 insults us Xbox 360 
 owners. The machine is cabable of much much more. I'm being genorous with my rating but 4.7/10 
 is all i can give.
  If anyone dissagrees with me email me at ' craigjeffery82@tiscali. co. uk ' 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Svcat2
Rating: 5.2
Date: Apr 30, 2006 1:33 am PT
Review:  This game looks absolutely amazing. Unfortunately that is the only thing that goes for it. This 
 game has terrible gameplay. The use of the throughball is unstopable, shots are way to easy to 
 take, and stealing the ball is way to easy. Though this is definitely and upgrade from road to 
 the world cup, it is not the best game. People will like it so much because anyone can dominate 
 at it, it requires no skill. It is overpaced, though it is slower than RTWC. Everything in this 
 game is way to easy. If you like wasy games, go ahead and get it, but a challenge is something 
 that is hard to find in this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drbob33
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 30, 2006 12:27 am PT
Review:  FIFA WC2k6 is definitely one of the best football games around. The AI is brilliant and quite a 
 bit of fun to play against. The commentary is rather amusing and there is nothing better than scoring 
 a goal in the 89th minute to win the world cup and hear the crowd go insane while the commentators 
 go into hysterics about your extraordinary skill. This is the best football game since World Cup 
 '98 for the N64. Any true football fan would do well to pick up WC2k6 to get pumped up for the 
 real thing...!
  
  Gameplay: 10
  What a fun game... I stand up and yell whenever I score a goal...
  
  Graphics: 8
  Not too 
 bad, I've seen a bit better on the X360.
  
  Sound: 8
  Music track is sweet and the crowd noise is amazing. The commentators get stale mighty fast.
 
  
  Value: 10
  Yes, a 10. Challenges and game modes aplenty, plus online play, and the fact that it's a great 
 party game with the fellas after a long day... this game gets popped in the 360 over and over.
 
  
  Tilt: 10
  How can you not love this game? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mr_Ashley
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jul 14, 2006 4:35 am PT
Review:  Have to say that EA have actually done something worth wild with this series. This game is a huge 
 leap from RTWC. The gameplay itself is vastly improved and this game is quite enjoyable. Easier 
 to figure out the game than as before. The shooting has been redone so you dont have to tap the 
 shoot button and hope you dont launch it out of the stadium. The passing has become less certain 
 than in years past. The through ball has become a way to release players in the open. This game 
 is probably the best fifa game I have ever played. 
  
  I would like to see what they will do with FIFA 07
  
  The moment the game starts you're excited. 
 The drum beat comes, you see the players and the stadiums; the World Cup has begun. The biggest 
 spectacle in all of sports, bigger then the World Series Super Bowl and Olympics all rolled into 
 one. An event of this magnitude is hard to recreate through any medium but there is away. All it 
 takes is the tyrant of the gaming world and some great technology. The 360 version of FIFA World 
 Cup 2006 captures the spirit of the event to a T. The presentation is pulse pounding, if youre 
 not ready for action after watching the opening montage, youre probably dead. The game is pure 
 fun, the content is staggering and the game play is admirable. The game play however is the only 
 step backward a far as Im concerned. The RTWC edition was a 360 exclusive, and the game play is 
 the only place youd notice. RTWC was difficult to pick up and play but once you had a handle on 
 the sensitivity, the game play was perfect. This new edition has some minor issues with ball physics 
 and player reaction, sometimes it starts to feel like you stopped playing soccer and started playing 
 pinball. But, while I believe this to be easily recognizable, I also recognize the improvements 
 made in every other area of the game. RTWC is not as good as this new game it just had better game 
 play. The new games improvements in content and presentation set it apart. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: broncoguy07
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 28, 2006 11:22 pm PT
Review:  One thing i like is how much this game says about the world cup. it even has this thing on the main 
 menu from fifaworldcup. com that has videos of the cities and stadiums where the world cup will 
 be held. in the world cup game mode there are a couple of editions of a virtual magazine of the 
 world cup you can flip through to see stats awards and rankings. the game does seem to bring the 
 fifa world rankings into play quite a bit. they also change quite a bit throughout the world cup 
 mode. the biggest change this game has over the disastrous RTFWC is the 127 teams spread accross 
 5 regions. there are new ways to present the game .there are many game balls to choose from, a great 
 deal of stadiums,2,4,8,10, or even 45 minute halves, and choose if an game is a friendly, qualifier, group 
 stage quarter final or final. the way it seems ea tried to bring passion and excitement is with 
 confetti. i don't know if i've ever seen so much confetti. after every goal, begining of every match, celebration 
 at the end of a match it rains confetti. unlike RTFWC there is a store to buy historic players, game 
 balls, or historic kits. there are no interactive loading screens anymore but the loading screen 
 gives you facts about the countries you are about to face. the commentary is really good. it comes 
 from clive tinsly and some guy new to fifa games. (cant quite remember his name) clive will make 
 a different comment for each country when they win the world cup and after each win really. the 
 graphics are not bad. player models are great. certain managers look great. and all the game balls 
 to choose from. this game is filled with new features that make it a must have for anyone who loves 
 the world cup. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mamalykhan
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 28, 2006 4:53 pm PT
Review:  This game is the best soccer game out there. It is better then the two other world cup's and it 
 may be even better than the other fifa games. It has great gameplay and it's similar to winning 
 eleven 9. The graphics are much more polished and more clear. Everything about this game is great. 
 For poeple who are looking for a game that they could have for a very long time and not be tired 
 of it should try this game. The global challenge is a mode that keeps you playing for a long time. 
 The sounds are terrific. EA Sports really gathered great songs and trax. So if you are a soccer 
 fan, I recommand you to try this game and see for yourself how a soccer game can be so realistic. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: montynana
Rating: 6.7
Date: Apr 27, 2006 7:15 pm PT
Review:  so i played it and wen i started i found the graphics were ummmmmmm not all that good actually 
 i was amazed at how not good it looked. The definition was worse then the RTWC. So i played and 
 i also relized that even though it is harder to take the all off a player and the defence did play 
 alot smarter i didnt really get into the game at all. I think that RTWC was a dissappointment because 
 it didnt feature the world cup or the new jersies. This one doesnt have what the first one has 
 some suspense. The graphics were i think a huge let down i thought graphics would have imporved 
 imensly but i was wrong. i will give them that they did work out some of the basic issues like 
 the defence being stupid and some other stuff but i wil say that this game is not worth 60 bucks 
 well 70 with tax. I am getting fed up with EA it has been a long time since they have delivered 
 a good game compared to winning eleven. If it wasnt for the fact that winning 11 doesnt have contracts 
 with the soccer clubs to use thier name. Fifa would be the last game a person would pick up. I 
 am thankful i learnt my mistake with RTWC when i bought it on launch but now i know, rent it before 
 u buy it i wont say its ot woth a rent but for the price put this game at the bottom of a must 
 have list or even a thinking about list. I say wait tell next year maybe we will have a much better 
 game. hopefully ea will do to fifa as they did to FNR3 and make a gane that is jaw dropping cause 
 the 360 is so much better then wat hascome out except for a few eceptions wich are FNR3 Oblivion 
 and GRAW and PGR3. and for value i will say onine is kinda fun when u find someone who will talk 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tokeloke
Rating: 6.1
Date: Apr 26, 2006 9:59 am PT
Review:  Having played the previous FIFa games, this one seems even easier. Played my first 3 games on the 
 hardest setting and won all of them; only conceded one goal. On my first time playing the game. 
 I think balancing the difficulty levels in FIFA has always been a problem, but this time I was 
 quite surprised.
  
  To get any sort of challenge I will have to play using Trinidad as my team I guess, or play online, 
 where I get beaten every time. It doesnt really make sense. 
  
  Apart from that, this is the slickest interface I have ever seen for a game, it is very very well 
 done. The graphics are impressive, but the players look downright scary - deformed mutated monsters.
 
  
  Lastly, I see almost no changes since the last XBox iteration (Not "Road To..") - it is almost 
 exactly the same controls, and still just as impossible to use the fancy tricks on the higher settings.
 
  
  in short: unbalanced, beautifully ugly 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mayham88
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 25, 2006 6:08 pm PT
Review:  Ill start out by saying that I do like the graphics and all the features they give you. There are 
 a lot of teams in this game. Also a lot of stadiums. The commentary is OK but nothin to write home 
 about. One thing I noticed is that when you play you can choose the game lenghts of 2min, 4min, 
 and up to 10 min, and then its normal time 45min. Well, for myself, 10 min, is way too short, and 
 45 is way to long. Thats my only complaint about this game. Gameplay is great! If you not sure 
 rent it first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CrazedColombian
Rating: 8.2
Date: May 17, 2006 8:27 am PT
Review:  This game gives me world cup fever... its an EA game that actually plays well. Still not as good 
 as Winning Eleven but will keep me entertained untill winning eleven comes out for 360. Great graphics, 
 sound and the tour of stadiums is sweet. I like that all teams have 40 plus players in squads so 
 that you can play diff players during qualifiers and be more like a coach when u cut the list to 
 make the list for whos gonna go to the world cup. Very fun..... a bit pricey, kind of suxs its 
 only 30 for xbox tho...
  
  I hope that Fifa 2007 has at least half of these national teams in it. It would have also been 
 cool if they offered Euro Cup, Copa America, Africian Cup, Gold Cup. World Cup Mode is cool but 
 considering this is just a National Team only game there should have been more cups to play in 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: malitz
Rating: 8.7
Date: Apr 25, 2006 5:25 pm PT
Review:  This is by far the best fifa to date. I finally feel next gen with this game, whether it be the 
 presentaion or the fluidity of the game play. They've really captured the look of most of the players 
 quite well. The game is extremely fluid and they've changed the shooting. Shooting is much better 
 now and easier to place your shots. 
  
  My first impressions were ' wow, they completely revamped this game ' and they really have. Players 
 play with true to life playing styles, and the "star players" are back. Personally im a big fan 
 of the star players thing because certain players do have that ability to dominate. Thierry Henry 
 can simply knife through defenses with a little hesitation and a big speed burst, things of that 
 nature are finally implemented into the gameplay. The crowds are great and include a WIDE variety 
 of chants. I have yet to play with or against a friend, but have heard good things. This game is 
 still no winning eleven but the gap is closing finally. I'd even go as far as to say its a small 
 gap. overall a very fun game, and is the most accurate representation of soccer in the fifa series. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: imnotapoof
Rating: 8.3
Date: May 4, 2006 2:06 am PT
Review:  Good: More strategy then any other soccer game. A good feeling when you beat your friends.
  
  Bad: Its a little bit held back up in defence. Takes a little while to get right up there to 
 take a shot. Soccer online play can tend to get a bit laggy. Gets boring when your getting flogged 
 by a friend.
  
  When i played this game i thought a little bit bored so i think pro evoloution soccer 5 is better 
 but i like both anyway. I know a lot of people that say Soccer games are crap. But there cheating 
 thereselfs because they just havent spent the time on it. If your a first person shooter person 
 you probably wont like it but theres still 25% chance you will like it for first person shooters 
 so give it a try! 
  
  If your really into soccer maybe you should get winning eleven 9 its really cool. I know i know 
 the cover of the xbox 360 looks attractive so you have to get all of them but thats a waste of 
 money get the ones that you know that will last a long long time. So if you already got fifa 2006 
 or fifa 2005 or things like that then dont get it just wait a little while. The scoring in this 
 game is really good u score the amount of perfect like a real match not like fifa 2003 so its a 
 must have if you are into soccer games. theres still better games on the market. eg need for speed 
 most wanted on xbox 360, Graw, and many others. Cheers mates;) 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
