-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: FIFA Soccer 09
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/xbox360/sports/fifasoccer09/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Realistic gameplay with plenty of depth.
 Be a Pro Online mode is great fun.
 Huge amount of solo and multiplayer game modes.
 Unparalleled presentation and attention to detail.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 AI is a bit too good at getting the ball.
 Expensive Adidas Live Season updates.
 Frequently laggy online play.
 Some dodgy AI goalkeeping.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Oct  3, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.5
Critic Score: 8.8, 40 Review (s)
User Score: 8.9, 1,230 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: EA Sports
Developer: EA Canada
Genre: Soccer Sim
Date: Oct 13, 2008
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
FIFA 09 plays better than ever before, and a wealth of new modes and features add plenty of longevity. 
 

  UK REVIEW -- It's been a busy 12 months for EA Sports and football games. FIFA 08 was a genuine revolution 
 for the series, with a more realistic pace and improved AI adding some much-needed depth to the 
 gameplay. UEFA Euro 2008 came six months later, further refining this ground work while expanding 
 the features list with more unique game modes. With FIFA 09 -- the third EA Sports football game 
 in a bit more than a year -- they've honed the core gameplay even further, and added even more features, 
 game modes, and online elements to the mix. It amounts to an incredibly deep and varied package, 
 and despite a few niggling bugs and performance issues, FIFA 09 is the pinnacle of the series so 
 far.  

           Clever AI, the need for accurate passing, and card-happy referees mean this is a challenging 
 game to get into.      

  Given the six-month period of time between Euro 2008 and FIFA 09, it's no surprise that the two 
 games play very similarly. The pace has quickened slightly, passes need to be directed with even 
 greater accuracy, and the referees seem even more eager to dish out cards. The most noticeable 
 improvement is in the physical quality of the players themselves. Attackers point to where they 
 want the ball, defenders direct offside violations to the linesmen, and everyone's lost that plastic 
 look from FIFA 08 that was so off-putting. Although you can still spot individual animation routines 
 during replays, the players now genuinely feel as if they're interacting with each other and the 
 ball. As a result, player weight and speed are now a vital part of overall tactics, and combining 
 runs with perfectly timed passes has become the only real way to succeed.  

  With opponent AI that absolutely  will not stop  until it gets the ball from you, FIFA 09 is now 
 firmly rooted in simulation territory. Experienced players can still use the left-trigger-enabled 
 trick system to run around players, but unless you're passing the ball around effectively, you 
 have little hope of keeping possession. The result is a game that's heavy on midfield battles -- even 
 the commentators remark on how often possession moves between teams. The AI is particularly good 
 even on the easier settings, not only moving in to take the ball off you, but springing off-side 
 traps and adapting their tactics throughout each match. This punishing difficulty forces you to 
 up your game, and you soon start to develop a rhythm and accuracy that can cut through defenses 
 to score some spectacular goals. Only the odd AI mistake from your own team conspires against you, 
 with goalkeepers running to punch a ball that's flying well wide of the goal, or the computer selecting 
 entirely the wrong defender for you when the other team is on a break.  

  Adding to the deep and rewarding gameplay is a wealth of new and existing game modes. The new cover 
 feature is Be a Pro: Seasons, which expands last year's BAP mode to cover a full four seasons. 
 In Be a Pro, you control a single real-world player or a custom character instead of an entire 
 team, and then craft the career of that player for both club and country over four years. You still 
 have to focus on winning games, but each match carries additional criteria such as making a certain 
 number of passes, tackles, or goals, which add to your overall experience points. If you're a real 
 fan of a certain player then it's great to step into his boots, but Be A Pro is most addictive 
 when you spend time customising your own footballer and putting your name on the back of a shirt. 
 With tactical changes and substitutions happening automatically, the emphasis is on you being the 
 player, and your ultimate aim across the four-year career is to stay in the A-squad and earn the 
 captaincy of your national team. If you get bored of playing as just one player or want to mix 
 things up a bit, then you can opt to control the entire team, and friends can jump in and out as 
 other players if you want support. Be a Pro is worth checking out if you want to see the game in 
 a different light, but even in attacking positions, you'll spend a lot of time waiting for some 
 action.  

  Where Be a Pro really comes into its own when played online. Up to 20 people can join in a single 
 game, and the same passing/tackling/position/goal reward system means you're encouraged to play 
 as part of a team. Be a Pro online is technically well implemented too, with a diplomatic lobby 
 system that lets people jump in and select the position they want to play; the first people to 
 ready up are awarded the captaincy and thus control of the tactics and options for the entire team. 
 The amount of lag in Be A Pro was higher than in standard online games, which isn't surprising 
 given the volume of people in the game. The number of shouting voices can sometimes make it difficult 
 to communicate too, but on the whole it's well implemented and is a huge amount of fun to play. 

           The Be a Pro online mode, which lets 20 people play together on Xbox Live, is one of the 
 game's highlights.      

  New online features aren't limited to just 10-vs-10 in FIFA 09. The game also incorporates the 
 Adidas Live Season -- similar to a feature in this year's NBA Live -- whereby real-world stats updates 
 are sent to your console on a weekly basis. The game comes bundled with an access code for one 
 free English, German, Spanish, French, Mexican, or Italian premier league, whereas additional leagues 
 cost 560 Microsoft Points or 1,600 points for the complete set. The stats updates change the ratings 
 of players in the game, so if someone is doing well in real life, he'll become better in the game. 
 However, it also works the other way round, and injuries lower the stats considerably for the period 
 of time that the player's not playing in real-life. It's an expensive feature if you want updates 
 to all of the leagues, and it expires in May 2009, but if you're a fan then it definitely adds 
 a bit of drama to your FIFA season.  

  The final major addition to the game is the new custom-tactics feature, which lets you get in-depth 
 with the behaviour of individual teams. You can adjust 11 different factors for each team, including 
 positioning and aggressiveness, and then map your tactics to the D pad to activate during a game. 
 What's more, you can upload these tactics to your online FIFA 09 Locker, which lets other people 
 download and rate what you've come up with. There are 28 slots in total, and you can download other 
 users' data and save it to your storage device. That said, the standard configurations that EA 
 has programmed already mirror the playing style of most major teams; Arsenal have a characteristically 
 offensive style, whereas Manchester United tend to push-up from the midfield.  

  Although FIFA 09 offers a lot of new features, the game is still full of existing content from 
 previous games. There's a wealth of offline game types, such as the Manager mode that concerns 
 you with transfers and training, and the lounge mode that lets you and your friends mess around 
 to create scenarios and challenges. Then there are the online modes, which are comprehensive to 
 say the least. The interactive league lets you represent your favourite club online against supporters 
 of other teams, with overall rankings tracking each team's progress around the world. There's also 
 a new FIFA 09 Clubs mode where you create your own team and try to recruit your friends to play 
 alongside you. In addition to the standard ranked and unranked games, you can join lobbies to chat 
 with other people before taking games at your leisure, or create custom leagues for up to 31 other 
 players to play against. The only sore point is the slowdown that permeates some games, especially 
 since quitting out of a particularly laggy match results in you conceding it.  

           You can activate special celebrations by pressing certain buttons after you score a goal. 

  EA Sports rarely disappoints when it comes to presentation, and FIFA 09 features the usual attention 
 to detail. The soundtrack is as large as it is varied, with 42 songs from well-known artists such 
 as Black Kids, CSS, and Damien Marley. There's also an option to stream podcasts from EA, TalkSport, 
 and ESPN, among others, directly to your console. The commentary is once again provided by Andy 
 Gray and Martin Tyler, who provide great camaraderie with comments such as "That's a great example 
 of what you used to do as a player." Although they occasionally repeat themselves or say the wrong 
 line, there's a wealth of team- and player-specific sound bites that are delivered in an enthusiastic 
 and authoritative manner. The ESPN news integration is also back, delivering live ticker feeds 
 on your favourite teams and leagues, and even other sports such as F1 and NBA. Then there's the 
 link to EA Sports Football World, which lets you send video and photos from the game to share with 
 friends online. Uploading video is a long process because it's converted to Flash in-game, and 
 www. eafootballworld. com is confusing to navigate and link to your EA and Xbox profiles. However, 
 the wealth of features here means that you keep discovering new things the more you play and delve 
 through the menus.  

  With FIFA 09, EA Sports has created the deepest, most realistic and feature-packed football game 
 yet. The gameplay hasn't changed a lot since UEFA Euro 2008, but the tweaks and refinements have 
 produced an incredibly rewarding game to play. There's an almost bewildering amount of modes to 
 play through, and the amount of online functionality means that the game should have a good deal 
 of longevity throughout the year. There's still room for improvement, with a high amount of lag 
 in certain online matches and some AI blunders in single-player, but if you're a football fan looking 
 for something to last you the entire season, you can't go wrong with FIFA 09.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (72 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: TheSilverArrow
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 10, 2009 8:15 am PT
Review:  FIFA 09
  
  Where to start? This game is so awesome its not funny. It connects the gamer to the whole World 
 by keeping you up to date with football the world over and making you feel like your waist deep 
 in footy.
  
  Thats a huge accomplishment of its own. And thats mostly "presentation" and not gameplay.
  
 
  The gameplay? Oh my God!! When you first start, you think "they could have made the guys quicker, 
 more responsive" but thats just becasue you havents played it long enough yet. Theres MASTERY to 
 be found there! and THAT is what makes a great game.
  
  Interface, presentation and graphics aside, if you can find a game that has a learning curve like 
 this where you can go from total noob to a wizard, THATS a good game. Any time a game gives you 
 a fully useable set of moves, skills and options, you have a great game - agreed? Oh you bet!
 
  
  You can control the speed and pace like never before. You really do have all the skills and moves 
 available to you that youd ever need. 
  
  Thats the gameplay - its unreal epic goodness.
  
  Now the modes!! 
  Play offline Mananger Mode - take any team through multiple seasons acquiring 
 new trades, etc - franchise mode fun
  Play Online Ranked games - you meet people from all over the world and most people are great
 
  Play Be a Pro - Blow your mind with a completely new way to play a footie game. You can play on 
 a team with 9 others for 10 on 10 lag-free action. 
  Play Online Leagues - a short season culminating in a Tournament
  
  And now Ultimate Team - 
 WICKED addicting. Start with a team of craptastic players, acquire Coins for matches, buy CARD 
 PACKS with coins, arrnage a team where the goalis to get your Team Chemistry up to around 100 by 
 getting everyone on the team from the same nationality, formation preference, etc. 
  
  If youre still reading this....
  
  Dont doubt it - you WILL be waist-deep in footie goodness.
 
  
  This game is simply Epic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: roosmas
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 29, 2009 2:33 am PT
Review:  This game is just great..... the looks, the feel, the English commentary. Wow... The gameplay has 
 really surpassed the PES gameplay now. And they also added "be a legend" which works so much better 
 than in PES 2009 too..... 
  
  The graphics are great. But then again, that has always been like that. The gameplay feels great 
 too. I love the way some players handle a ball so much better (and different) than other players. 
 
  
  The cameras can be personalised even further (height, zoom) . The gameplay feels very naturally. 
 
  I also feel that a game never feels the same as the previous one. 
  
  The dutch commentary s**ks big time though. But then again, the negativism of a Jury Mulder is 
 well known. The positiveness of Andy Gray with "ooooh just a whisker from the post" adds so much 
 more to the gameplay and gives you some extra adrenaline. :-)
  
  all and all, just super..... buy it.
  
  by the way. The PC version is slightly less good............ 
 somehow it feels less 'at home' than the xBOX360 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MighteyMouse2
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 25, 2009 6:36 am PT
Review:  FIFA might be my favorite game to play repeatedly. It never gets old, any game can be won or lost, 
 nothing is in stone. FIFA '08 was not that great by FIFA standards; you could not make a THROUGH 
 BALL!!! and doing moves during gameplay was non-existant. FIFA '09 delivered with almost everything 
 much improved. Graphics were better, gameplay is smoother and the game has a better flow to it. 
 Superstars stand out as they should and play a little above some lesser talented players. Goalie 
 AI abilities have been much improved and much appreciated since FIFA's last installment. Team selection 
 is outstanding, along with accuracy of player ratings. Some attributes could be debated, but overall 
 FIFA '09 is a great game and FIFA '10 is gonna have to be pretty groundbreaking to be much better. 
 One thing i would ask to be worked on... the sidestep shot... If a player has a breakaway and the 
 keeper does not come out all a player has to do when around the 15 is stop, step to the side, and 
 shoot for an easy goal. also, add hand ball fouls. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HarrisDo
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 24, 2009 8:19 am PT
Review:  If there were only one thing that should be mentioned about the new FIFA Soccer it would be the 
 control that the player has. The customization level is wonderful and you see from the first time 
 you play. There are detailed options for Be A Pro creating and easy control setup like changing 
 even the leaning of the camera and detailed and advanced new tactics for the team system. At first 
 it seems very complicated but it doesn't let you disagree with something you don't like because 
 you can simply change it. The game is ready to let you do everything you like so as to enjoy it.
 
  
  FIFA 09 gives wonderful atmosphere. It has an individual live feeling. It is like real footbal. 
 The players can easily lose control of the ball, the move around continously and ask for the ball. 
 Another add is that all the passes have a power bar and not only the lobs. Some passes need a second 
 more but it make the player feel that he is iside the game. Although in this way the game needs 
 to be played carefully. But with a little train you will make passes that you will never dream.
 
  
  Besides the game's realism is revolutionary and unexpected. Sometimes the ball rolls a little further 
 than the player and this makes him run to take it. In other football games when you get close to 
 the goal everything is always similar and the goals are the same. On the contrary in FIFA 09 you 
 act different due to the players .
  
  In the game the players' response is very quick and that helps a lot. Moreover the ball's movement 
 is more normal and very satisfying. The other team act very good. If you keep the ball back the 
 forwards are going to press but if you run torwards the goal then the team will came back won't 
 let pass or possess the ball easily. The football balance between the players' roles maintain.
 
  
  The improvements in gameplay don't stop here. The dribles are now much better executed and the 
 result isn't your player to lose the ball. Furthermore there have been changes in the team management. 
 It is simple but does a lot in the teams play. You can adjust the speed of the game in offense 
 and defense or the pressure and the team's form. 
  
  Probably the best thing in FIFA is the Be a Pro match. You create your own player or choose someone 
 from a team and start his carrer. In the matches he is the only player you control and it's real 
 fun. The only bad is that the carrer is only four seasons but I think they are enough.
  
  [The FIFA online is just amazing. The best mode there is the matches that are played from 20 players (evryone 
 has his own player, except from goalkeepers that are controled by the console) .]
  
  The best football sim ever for 360! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: metabolic1
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 17, 2009 1:07 pm PT
Review:  Game: FIFA 09
  Platform: Xbox360
  Reviewer: Ian 'Sictard' French
  Date: 15/03/09
  
  Another year, another football simulation is released by EA Sports.
  
  This year, like many 
 other years, promises to be the best yet but there's a difference, this year's could well be considered 
 the best yet and some may argue that it even beats its rival, Pro Evolution.
  
  With improvements on last year's edition which was almost there but, not quite, we are treated 
 to the standard new editions we come to expect from FIFA games. Better graphics, the latest transfers, 
 improved AI and various little tweaks us mere gamers may not initially notice. This year's edition 
 features something far greater, a whole new way of playing FIFA.
  
  'Be a pro mode' lets you take control of one player (or one pro, if you wish) from any position 
 (except goalkeeper) to try and make the best impact on the game possible and improve your 'pro 
 rating', the in game rating system that is fairly accurate, if a little unfair at times. Run at 
 the defense to support your strikers, the opposition boots the ball towards your defense and you're 
 expected to keep up with the ball play and are penalized for being limited by the speed of the 
 game. That said, it's not too difficult to get a 100% rating and it certainly gives you a warm 
 fuzzy feeling, especially on the higher difficulty settings.
  
  For most the management side of FIFA games is still the main drawn, this year's edition won't let 
 you down. The usual updates are there, latest transfers, mainstream teams and leagues with the 
 latest kits. The management mode hasn't really changed over the last 3 or 4 years bar the odd tweak 
 and polish. You'll find the main draw is how the game plays and feels.
  
  Many issues have been addressed from 2008s edition, the game play is much faster paced, the AI 
 is even more intelligent and will make you 'think before you shoot' which certainly brings a lot 
 of fun to the game. The other revision from last year is the controls, you'll feel you have more 
 control over the ball compared to previous years but passing isn't always as accurate as it could 
 be with many passes going to players you had no intention of passing to, frustrating but not something 
 that ruins game play. Shooting has also seen a slight improvement, nothing major over the '08 release 
 but it certainly feels like it flows much more easily with the new game play dynamics.
  
  The other, single player options are your usual FIFA entries but where FIFA 09 really scores (excuse 
 the pun) is with its online competition, like the majority of Xbox360 titles the 09 release features 
 plenty to keep you busy with the official FIFA Online rankings, the head to head game play and, 
 of course 'Be a Pro' which allows 5 vs. 5 games and you don't need me to tell you how much fun 
 this is be it 5 of your mates vs. 5 random, or you and 9 random players OR, for the popular amongst 
 us, you and 9 friends.
  
  Overall this latest edition of EAs yearly football simulation is, although clich, the best version 
 they have released. It's great fun to play, alone or with friends. The game play is certainly very 
 polished and it's still FIFA so it's easy enough for new players to pick up but will give veteran 
 players a new challenge.
  
  Overall - 8.5/10
  Graphics - 9/10
  Game Play - 8/10
  Online - 8/10
  
  * The above review is based on the honest opinion of the author only. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MilkyBarKid16
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 10, 2009 10:58 am PT
Review:  Every year I buy the new Fifa game and this year was no exception. 
  I got an Xbox 360 for Christmas and went out and bought Fifa 09, I got it home and played a match 
 on amateur (because of the stupid thing where it looks for Fifa 08 achievements which I haven't 
 got) . I was the team I support (West Ham) and faced QPR from the Championship, I won 2  0, Cole 
 scored from a volley (5G in the bag and then I got Davenport sent off (I got 20G after the match 
 for the achievement A Man Down) , Behrami then scored from a corner (I then got 10G for that) . 
 
  After 3 more matches (WH 3  1 Wolves, WH 1  0 Man City and finally MU 3  1 Hull) I racked up 
 60G, I then asked mates about how quick the got achievements for Fifa 09 and they have the same 
 opinion as me, BLOODY EASY! At this moment in time I have over 560G for Fifa 09 and that is in 
 only just over 2 months. 
  
  The new game mode Be a Pro Seasons is great, the view you get is brilliant and what happens near 
 the penalty area is great and the fact you can hear the rustling of your kit is good too, it feels 
 so realistic, the only thing I would complain about it is that it is too short, I started off at 
 Bristol City just so I could actually play 1st team football, I then moved on to Villareal 2 seasons 
 later and I am currently at Villareal in my 4th season. It should be for at least 6 seasons just 
 so you can move around clubs a bit more and so you can become Club God and still move on to another 
 club with 2 seasons left, unlike the present game.
  
  The graphics are superb, all the good player's faces on the game are modelled really well, but 
 a lot of the made up faces have the same look about them.
  
  The referees are way too strict, you do a slide tackle and get a yellow, but on old Fifa game the 
 ref just played advantage and it lets the game go on and run smoother, another thing I hate with 
 the ref is that I do a slide tackle and about 10 minutes later (match time) I get a yellow card, 
 it's ridiculous! The referee gave me a yellow card for a conservative tackle once! 
  
  I think the next game should include a longer Be a Pro mode and have a 1st person view but the 
 choice to have the normal Pro camera.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: pedrovieira123
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 9, 2009 11:31 am PT
Review:  Fifa09 is without any argument the best Soccer game on the market, Pes09 is way too arcade and 
 apart from that there are no real competitors. 
  
  Fifa09 in terms of graphics is pretty good, without being awesome or brilliant its good enough 
 and the physics are belivable. I think the way that this game shines is the fact its got loads 
 of teams and modes to play, be a pro, manager, tournaments, etc. The editor is weak to say the 
 least.
  
  Online is really good, rarelly any lags and the matchmaking is really optimum unlike other games 
 like GOW2.
  
  The gameplay is good once you get used to it, its pretty realistic, headers are really good compared 
 to pes, but dribbling is pretty poor.
  
  Summarizing, its definetly the best soccer game out in the market, if you like it more arcade and 
 dont mind the bugs, go for pes09, other than that fifa 09 is better in most if not all aspects. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: d33pak001
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 2, 2009 10:32 pm PT
Review:  When playing this game you will get the same feeling as if u are watching a real soccer game. Excellent 
 graphics, great commentary where there are not many repetitive comments and great sound effects 
 as well. There are some minor bugs like the way the players run is a little weird when you watch 
 it closely but otherwise, during a match, they are not visible. The difficulty is very well made 
 as there is a difficulty for everyone from a starter to a veteran in this game. The best feature 
 of this game is the 10 on 10 multiplayer which will be envied by its competitors. It is a mode 
 where u can play a match with 20 user-controlled players online which is something that the fans 
 will love. Besides there is the be a pro mode which is well made with great effects both visuals 
 and sound. Overall this game has set a new standard among soccer games and sports games in general. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mootalstrike
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 17, 2009 9:59 pm PT
Review:  Fifa 09 is an amazing soccer game. It has many different game types as well as an arena where you 
 go one on one with the keeper. The game types include the manager mode which is similar to dynasty 
 mode in other sports games. (Basically you just pick a team and control every aspect during the 
 season.) As well as various cup modes.
  Online play is also an outstanding feature on the game, although there are some issues with lag, 
 but they are hardly noticeable. There is a ranking system within the online modes, in order to 
 get a higher rank you must play ranked matches. 
  The in-game interface is basically the same as you would find in other soccer games, which is good 
 because it is pretty much perfect. The AI in the game however is a little harder compared to previous 
 Fifa titles, but I believe it is a change for the better because it makes goals feel more rewarding 
 and passing between players seem a lot more fun in combination with special moves.
  If you enjoy soccer games it is no secret that this one is a winner and it is definitely a good 
 step foreword for the series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -Saigo-
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 10, 2009 10:35 pm PT
Review:  Though 09 makes improvements from previous years, the improvements prove minor to the few, though 
 often glaring, weakness's FIFA still possess. Though the graphics are a slight improvement, as 
 well as the fluidity of player mechanics, 09 still struggles with control flaws, A. I. (Artificial 
 Intelligence) , and degrees of difficulty issues.
  
  Control overall has made an improvement with more pin point passing, players remarkably realizing 
 they can chase a ball, more control over tackles, and "smart" switching of players controlled. 
 Though shooting remains somewhat constrictive, my biggest complaint, though not new to this year, 
 is what I dub the "dummy follow mode," where players chasing a long ball are physically pulled 
 by some unseen gravitational force towards the ball and unable to break away to play the angle. 
 It's frustrating when you know the utter impossibility of catching a streaking striker and try 
 to play a strategic role only to realize you're still a puppet on some invisible string. Though 
 it doesn't occur as often as years past, it's still there, and yes, it's still a problem. 
  
  Overall, EA has does very little to fix the issues with FIFA's A. I. On one hand there's your 
 over zealous opponents who ravage your strikers like starving dogs in a meat factory, and on the 
 other, the A. I. on your team who mope about like someones slipped muscle relaxers in the Gatorade! 
 It would be nice to have your teammates adapt more defensively to what you were doing yourself. 
 In regards to A. I. officiating, improvements have also been made to off-sides and now the refs 
 finally seem to get it right. On a drawback however, FIFA 09 is almost too precise with offside 
 calls and allows absolutely no margin of human error, regardless of how close the run was. If you're 
 offside even by a cm, the play is coming back and going the other way. 
  
  Though A. I. is still somewhat dependent on difficulty, 
  the contrast in difficultly levels is 
 still a little harsh, though an improvement over previous years. Also, gone are the difficulty 
 required achievements that made gaining achievements in 08 so frustrating, which allows the player 
 to focus on the feat, rather than other unnecessary factors,
  
  Overall FIFA 09 has made some good strides in improving the "beautiful game", and elements such 
 as a more refined and polished tournament mode, create a character, Pro Mode, enhanced online features, 
 and overall environment, truly allow the player to feel a part on the pitch. On the downside, the 
 lack of a create a team feature, recycled commentary, and a poor selection of music dim the shine 
 of a good soccer sim. 
  
  ~Saigo~
  "Intelligent Reviews for Intelligent Gamers" 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xKriegerx
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 4, 2009 7:25 am PT
Review:  You really have to like soccer to play this game. I didn't want to spend an hour writing a review, 
 so I shortened it with + (positives) and - (negatives)
  
  
  
  + Graphics are extremely good. Especially for the players. But horrible for the crowd.
  + Gameplay 
 is pretty straight-forward with lob passes, through-passes, chip shots, crosses, bycicle kicks, 
 and a whol lot more to score a goal with.
  + Achievement are pretty easy to get. Unlike fifa 07, where you had to win 300 matches on semi-pro 
 to get one achievement. and it was only like 30 gamerscore.
  - Shooting on the goal is always really hard, but when you barely tap the B button to shoot, it 
 goes like a mile high in the air and misses.
  - xbox live gameplay isn't all that great with some laggy issues. 
  - Difficulty on this game 
 is pretty tough. On ametuer they're kind of hard. On normal thay're hard. On semi-professional 
 they're really hard. On World Class they're really really hard. On Professional they're really 
 really really hard. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: obiken
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 1, 2009 9:15 am PT
Review:  -1-09, this review is late but here it is anyway. This one is the best in the series. There are 
 no major weaknesses at all. 
  4 things make any great video game. 
  1. Interface 2. Graphics 3. Sound. 4. Is it fun to play? 
  You want easy you get easy. You want 
 hard set it to hard. The graphics are stunning and always have been. The interface just keeps getting 
 better and better. It's a great combination of stick and buttons. The sound is unreal, although 
 I could do without some of the music selections; I just don't see how you can make a better game. 
 
  There is one minor flaw. In the I am a Pro mode, once you make Captain of the National team it 
 can without warning substitute someone else, I am not sure why. Has to be a glitch. 
  Outside of that it is the best in the series so far. In a game that I think over the years has 
 been the best Sporting Game of them all.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mr_Impossible
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 1, 2009 6:01 am PT
Review:  Fifa 09 has improved so much from all the previous fifa games on the Xbox 360. There's over 29 
 leagues. Also the atmosphere is outstanding, the environment is nice and colourful but the character 
 models are a bit cartoon alike despite that there's new features in the game such as be a pro where 
 your footballer starts from the bottom to work his way through the top to become a legend which 
 is pretty good but at times it feels that you just can't get hold of the ball sometimes. The management 
 mode is more a less the same as previous fifa games however the AI system is excellent and also 
 football players feel a bit more real when controlling them. Fifa 09 is not just the best football 
 game of 2008 but the best football game in decades! This is definitely a must buy for all the football 
 fans out there who love football. 
  
  Graphics - The environment is nice and colourful but the character models are a cartoon alike.
 
  
  Gameplay - The AI system is excellent and also football players feel a 
  bit more real when controlling them. This is an excellent game.
  
  How long the game will last? 
 This game will last you 40 hours or less. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -PrahaMonkey-
Rating: 5
Date: Jan 29, 2009 8:06 pm PT
Review:  Football. Fotbal. Soccer, whichever way you say it, it all means that same. It's the most beautiveful 
 game in the world. Each year, our "friends" at EA try their darndest to try to come up with a game 
 that all fotbal (Czech way of saying soccer) , fans will agree on that it is that best representation 
 of the World's Game. Year after year, EA gets better and better, with FIFA 08 taking the crown 
 as one of the better ones. But then FIFA 09 comes around, and ruins all of the buildup.
  
  For starters, the gameplay is absolutly atroshious. Controls fall under what I call "weighted". 
 It takes a while for the player to actually respond to your control. Another thing I don't like 
 is the fact that people are calling FIFA 09 "realistic". Nope. Does the fact that the ref have 
 the eyesight to see a player that is about an inch or two off sides, make it real? Do you see the 
 little group ups of players in one little spot in professional footbal? No. You would expect ot 
 see that at a local pee-wee league. And your A. I. team mates... jeez. They will stand there like 
 a brain dead zombie until you control them. If you pass a ball to someone, they won't run for it, 
 they will sit there and wait for it to come to them. Add that with an A. I. that can very easily 
 take the ball away from you, and your in for a very infurerating game. 
  
  Graphics and presentation wise, the game is also sub-par. While EA does capture the overall atmosphere 
 of the crowd, the announcers sound like their asleep. If you will a champianship, they will sit 
 there and non enthusiasticly commentate. "oh yes... they are the champains..... zZz.... zZz....". 
 Now a normal comentater would be going crazy. "THEY WIN, THE CHAMPIANSHIP IS THEIRS!!!". That's 
 what makes the game of fotbal so beautiveful, the over all emotion felt not only by fans and players, 
 but by the comentators as well. While the graphics do shape up well, and the overall sound is reletaivefully 
 good, I just wish there was more there. 
  
  On the multiplayer side of things, it gets worse. Aside from the normal lag, the problems expereinced 
 from the single player stand point, make appearences in multiplayer form as well. Especially if 
 you are playing FIFA veterans, you will be on the verge of cursing the game and all thats involved 
 with it. It's just no fun.
  
  The additional game modes offer some good moments, the traditional manager mode, tournament mode, 
 that is there from previous years. The Be a Pro Mode offered a good alternative, where you control 
 a created player or an existing pro to control for a season. This offered good fun for a short 
 peroid of time however, especially if it was mainly just you doing anything.
  
  Bottom line, you can think what you want about this little review. I'm a fotbal player, I know 
 how the game works, and FIFA 09 fires very little cylinders as far as gameplay comes. The beautiveful 
 game will have to wait another year.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: thomaslaw1988
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 24, 2009 9:52 am PT
Review:  Over the past few years i have really tried to stray away from the FIFA games but I have to say 
 that i am happy that i have purchased the 2009 edition. I have not been able to put the game down! 
 There is just so much on offer that you have difficulties choosing what game mode you want to get 
 stuck into! The new Be A Pro feature, i believe, to be an amazing new game mode! it offers a whole 
 new way of gameplay instead of just playing the game for what it is. With it you have to become 
 a world classed player by working your way through the ranks. It is a little different but i think 
 its a step into the right direction as football games are becoming rather generic. after all there 
 is only so many things you can do with football games until they all become the same. The new game 
 mode does take a while to adjust to but once you have cracked it, it becomes so addictive! with 
 the function of increasing your players attributes with experienced gained during match play, it 
 offers somewhat of a more personal approach to the game of football on the console. its entirely 
 up to the user how they wish to evolve their player which makes it more interesting and independant 
 from user to user.
  
  an another great feature to the game is the Adidas live included with it. this is truely a mass 
 improvement into the football genre. the system allows the games players to increase or decrease 
 in atrributes depending on real life events. for instance, if Wayne Rooney is playing well in the 
 league this is reflected on the game. The system will improve Wayne Rooney to match the real one! 
 How cool is that? IT also provides live updates of the main issues raised in the media such as 
 current headliners which can prove tp be useful for the hardcore football fan!
  
  overall, Fifa 2009 had my vote for the best football game on 2009. the new features truely do the 
 game justice and offers that much more in order to avoid the game being the same as its predessors. 
 for all the true football fans out there, fifa 2009 is the game for you! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Raiko101
Rating: 6.5
Date: Apr 3, 2009 2:23 pm PT
Review:  It's hard to review this game because it is one you'll keep coming back to if you have the friends 
 to play with. Socially this game can be a lot of fun. Even for those who know or care little about 
 football. It's just easy to pick up and play. However, there are plenty of tiny flaws which eat 
 away at the game from the inside and can make the whole experience far too annoying at times. 
 
  
  Lets start with basics and the positives. The controls are pretty simple and easy to pick up. Yet 
 they have a level of depth that will keep you experimenting with tricks, through-balls, lobs and 
 varying defensive movement. Player control is pretty slick too. They're not as sluggish as in previous 
 games and you can alter a players speed in particular situations, whether you be sprinting down 
 the pitch or navigating a single player through a crowded opposition.
  
  In terms of game content, you couldn't really ask for much more. You've got a manager mode that 
 allows you to play through as many seasons as you wish with any team you like. You have a "be a 
 pro" mode in which you can play as a single player within a team, building up attributes and earning 
 places in your clubs 1st choice squad and your international squad throughout multiple seasons. 
 You can play all but the manager mode with up to 4 players as well, and can even participate in 
 10 vs 10 player matches online. You've more official leagues, teams and players than in any other 
 football game, and if you want you can have a go at creating any single person you want in the 
 game and sign them to any team you wish. 
  
  Graphically the game is really good too. If you're bothered enough, through the use of replays 
 you can zoom in on players so close you can see their sweat. Animations are smooth and for the 
 most part are very realistic. 
  
  Now, importantly, we're going to review the gameplay in greater detail. It must be stated that 
 if football isn't really your thing, you wont care too much for the flaws in this game. However, 
 if you are a big football fan and you still haven't played this game, you'll soon find yourself 
 as fustrated as I, and wonder why you persistently continue playing the game! 
  
  The most common issue to be seen in this game comes from the through-ball system. In Fifa 08 through-balls 
 were incredibly tricky to pull off. Many a time you'd find yourself passing balls the the opposing 
 teams goal keeper or directly to the feet of an opposing play. With Euro 2008, EA apparently found 
 the perfect solution. There was a greater freedom of direction when playing through-balls and as 
 a result you often found your intended target.
  
  With Fifa 09 however, it appears EA have taken a step backwards again. With through-ball passes 
 being played across the ground, you'll often feel you're either passing directly to opposing players 
 or playing them away from a particular players run. The best solution to this problem is to use 
 the chipped through-ball. However, when defending such moves you'll quickly realise how dangerous 
 these balls are and for the wrong reason. As soon as the ball is played, any nearby defenders on 
 the opposing team will either side step or stop completely to face the ball, leaving the attacking 
 receiver miles clear of the defence by the time they receive the ball.
  
  There are other notable annoyances too. Sometimes when crossing low in the box, you'll find the 
 game purposely confuses a pass with a through-ball and see what should have been a simple goal 
 become a simple pass to the opposing keeper. You'll also notice that at times your team mates will 
 stop or run away from developing situations. This includes long passes up the pitch, in which the 
 recieving player will take a few steps back automatically, and thus allow an oppising player to 
 intercept the ball. Defenders will sidestep when opposing players pass the ball between themselves 
 in the box and this can make tackling more difficult. Also your players will some times make very 
 poor touches when recieving passes and will likely knock the ball perfectly into the path of an 
 opposing player.
  
  There are a few other annoyances with the game, including the fact keepers can sometimes knock 
 balls wide without being near enough to touch them. However it's those which I mention that will 
 fustrate you the most. Especially when playing against friends as its so easy to feel cheated. 
 It's not unlikely to concede goals as a result of these flaws against the computer either.
  
  Speaking of which, the AI in this game isn't particularly challenging. I have gone entire seasons 
 in manager mode without drawing or losing a single game on the Legendary difficulty setting and 
 have beaten top teams such as Man Utd, Chelsea and Barcalona with scores as high as 8-0. Still 
 it's not the AI that makes this game enjoyable, it's the challenge of playing human competition. 
 Whether online or against friends, you'll not find a better challenge. 
  
  I have altered this review from it's original state because I felt I was a little too harsh on 
 this game. That's not to say this deserving of the critic scores it recieved prior to release. 
 The annoying floors will become apparent to anyone who plays long enough and I feel many reviewers 
 would not have given this game that amount of time. However, I recommend Fifa 09 to any combined 
 football fan and online gamer. The online experience is pretty good. It's challenge will leave 
 you coming back for more.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: littletotheleft
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 20, 2009 1:27 pm PT
Review:  Ive been a pes fan for years now. Actually ive been an avid fifa hater for just as long. the shallow 
 gameplay that fifa had in past years was enough to put most anyone off. PES picked up the pieces 
 nicely as long as you could look past the lack of licenses and horrible, horrible music. honestly 
 there was no reason what so ever to even try a fifa game after what pes 06 had to offer....
  then pes hit a wall. it seemed for every step forward pes took the took 2 backwards. then it seemed 
 there were no steps forward. i was becoming increasingly frustrated dishing out my money for a 
 stale game which offered no reason to pay for a new game when the past games were of much higher 
 quality. i had recently played the pes 09 demo. and while it felt as tight as ever in control it 
 really didnt give me a reason to drool at the lips for it. while reading previews there were almost 
 no new features other than the half assed champions league mode. so while at best buy one day i 
 stood in line with both games in hand, fifa and pes, ready to pay for one. it was a very very hard 
 decision. i mean turning my back on pes for a game i had such horrid memories of. i may have let 
 a couple of people go ahead of me in line while i was contemplating the decision i had already 
 knew i made when i picked up both games. 
  i placed pes down and probably had a blank 100 yard stare while purchasing fifa. i couldnt believe 
 what i was doing. i knew this would be it. the nail in the coffin if fifa was even slightly enjoyable. 
 i mean, pes did nothing but dissapoint for about 3 years straight. 
  so i knew i had a few hours set aside for this important night. 
  i played fifa begrudgingly 
 for about 5 hours... my worries shrinking with each hour. now im not calling fifa a perfect game, 
 its not, but its a great game barely missing the mark of masterpiece. this game IS perfect in all 
 but one aspect. the gameplay. the gameplay isnt horrible mind you. its just slightly amiss. the 
 reaction time to your button presses are slightly delayed and the dribbling, for all its tricks, 
 is ridiculously hard when trying to change directions. but its something that can be figured out 
 eventually. 
  i believe the devil ea sports has pulled off a genuinely wonderful game with attention to the smallest 
 detail in presentation and loads of features that are fantastic. im jumping on board with fifa. 
 ill still give each year of pes a chance with a rent... but if fifa continues to improve with leaps 
 and bounds like this every or even every other year there will be no reason unless pes surprises 
 the hell out of the world. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fifa09fanatic
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 4, 2009 2:03 pm PT
Review:  OK, to be honest, I wasn't really a FIFA fan. I didn't like FIFA 04. I only played World Cup games 
 (98, 2002, and 2006) . But when I played this game after seeing a Preview, I wanted it. After a 
 few minutes of playing it in the Midnight of Christmas, it was good. The Graphics were more real. 
 I like how players react to tackles like a GTA IV enviorment. I also like how there is more Stadiums 
 and Estadio Azteca, Mestalla, and Wembely still stay. And there is alot of Generic stadiums that 
 look like real Stadiums or remind me of other stadiums. However, there is flaws. The Referee always 
 reacts to Tackles and Fouls you get, but almost never cards or gives a foul to the opponent. Also, 
 why did they remove Nigeria and Wales from the game. Heck were is Chile? Im suprised. It Deserves 
 a 10.0 out of 10! Hands down. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: linkedup8484
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 25, 2008 4:45 pm PT
Review:  After playing FIFA 08, it's nice that this game actually has useful through-balls, 20 player Be 
 A Pro team, and better dribbling skills, but there are still waaaay too many things wrong with 
 the game for me to say it's a "good" game. 
  
  I have played this game A LOT (over 500 online single-player ranked games and a level 20 skill 
 level, also hundreds of Be a Pro Online Team Play games) so bear with me while I go through all 
 the things (that I can think of) that will undoubtedly annoy you if you play this game, particularly 
 if you play it online against other people as I do: 
  
  The main thing wrong with FIFA '09 is that things take too long to happen once you press them, 
 and the buttons that you do press are often misinterpreted by the game so it does the wrong thing 
 or does nothing at all. Things especially take too long when you are sprinting, if they even happen 
 at all which is stupid because just because a player is running doesn't mean it is going to take 
 them 5 seconds to take a shot or swerve to avoid a defender. 
  
  You will undoubtedly get annoyed when you are sprinting towards your opponents goal, and press 
 the shoot button when you are about 10 yards from the goalie, but nothing will happen and the goalie 
 will slide into you and grab the ball away.
  
  As I mentioned above, the through balls this year have been improved to actually work some times 
 and you can curve them around defenders if you have enough time to hold down the pass button, but 
 even now half the time the ball won't go to the player you direct your stick towards, and that 
 is another main problem with the game: 
  
  Way too many times you will press to pass towards a certain person or to shoot in a certain direction, 
 and it will go nowhere near that person or to a completely different person, or even to no one 
 at all (why would the game think I would ever want to kick the ball to absolutely no one, my opponent's 
 defense, or out of bounds I find myself wondering?) . It's worse with passing than shooting, but 
 when heading the ball especially from a corner it hardly ever goes in the direction you press or 
 when you are running or surrounded by defenders it also rarely goes where you direct it to. 
  
  This gets extremely annoying because you will be certain you held down the stick pointing to 
 one player who is running towards their goal, and it will go to someone else who is right in front 
 of a defender, or will go to someone in an offsides position. 
  
  I also think the offsides is way too strict and often wrong. I have seen clear replays where both 
 of my player's feet were planted on MY side of the field, and only part of his arm was on the other 
 side and I got called for offsides. Also many times the offsides line and my players line were 
 right on top of each other, and the real-life rule is supposed to be to give the advantage to the 
 attacking player.
  
  With through ball passes there are also other problems, like by the time you actually pass the 
 ball your player will be offsides, which again is a result of the ridiculously slow reaction time 
 of the game. Either that or you will pass the ball, and the player you are passing to will randomly 
 step back and turn around to head back towards your side, even if they are not offsides when you 
 pass. This is frustrating and again extremely unrealistic. 
  
  Another extremely part of this game is that a lot of times the ball will get hit into an area or 
 take a deflection, and one of your players or even your goalie will be right in front of the ball, 
 and they will not go for the ball, and will wait for another player who is further away to come 
 for the ball, by which point the other team will have gotten to it or you will have lost the oppurtunity. 
 And the game will not switch to that player or your goalie if you press the switch player button, 
 it will treat the further away player as the closest player as he is the only one you can select 
 with the "select the closest player" button. 
  
  Even worse is when it is your goalie who will not run towards the ball right in front of him and 
 the other team will have scored. The goalie really act idiotic sometimes, like they will deflect 
 a ball towards the center of the goal, and will take waaay to long to get back to it. In real life 
 any goalie would be sprinting towards the deflection as fast as they possibly could and dive on 
 it, but in this game the goalies don't and unless you have a defender there to clear it the other 
 team will often score. 
  
  Also another annoying thing with goalies is if someone chips the ball over them and it is going 
 in at a slow pace, the goalie will not sprint back but will instead creep up on it like it's a 
 chicken or something and he's trying to pick it up without scaring it. This again is extremely 
 annoying and unrealistic. 
  
  Yet another thing which is among the most annoying parts of the game, is that the ref will way 
 too many times not play advantage when you have a a great chance to go to the goal or even a clear 
 path towards goal where you will almost definitely score. Several times I have even shot the ball 
 and had it GO IN, only to have the ref call the ball back for a foul that occured on my way to 
 scoring and completely disregard the goal. This is just stupid because every ref in the world in 
 real life would let play go on if you even have a slight chance of scoring, let alone a clear path 
 towards goal. 
  
  The last problem (I can think of, I'm sure there are others I can't remember right now) with single-player 
 matches is that a lot of times you will find yourself kicking your ball into your own players who 
 do absolutely nothing to get out of the way. This can happen when you pass to a player and another 
 is in the way, or if you are clearing the ball and one of your players is in the way. In real life, 
 if a player sees a ball coming towards them that is way too fast to possibly be directed at them, 
 they get out of the way and let it go to the player it was directed to. Also players in real life 
 will duck or try to dip out of the way of balls played out of their area. In this game the players 
 just stand there and let the ball deflect off them, often right into the path of your opposition.
 
  
  Also, when players fall onto the ground and stay there for a few seconds, the game treats them 
 like they are a brick wall, you can't do anything if they are in the way.
  
  Finally, player control of the ball is often terrible, and players will score own goals just by 
 having it lightly deflect off them, again because they either don't get out of the way or they 
 can't control a deflection. If I am playing with a world class team and they can't control a ball 
 hit at them without having it deflect off them like they are a brick wall or get out of the way, 
 it just seems silly and too unrealistic. 
  
  Also, I have a problem with the system FIFA 09 has in ranked games if a player gets disconnected. 
 Even if a player is winning by 10 goals with 1 minute left in the game, if their internet connection 
 goes out for a second and they get disconnected, they get handed a loss and the player losing by 
 10 goals with no chance of ever winning the match gets the win simply because the other winning 
 player disconnected. This is just stupid. Especially with the huge point deduction you get if you 
 are playing a lower-ranked player that will take winning several games in a row just to earn back, 
 I think it is stupid to give a winning player a loss just for having their internet connection 
 go out for a second, especially if they were clearly going to win the game anyway. I think if a 
 player is winning a game and they disconnect, it should be considered a draw, or just consider 
 the game to have never happened and give neither player a win or a loss. 
  
  In Be A Pro Online team play, which has doubled the amount of players you can play with from FIFA 
 08, there are still some problems. I like that a booting a player option has been added, but only 
 team captains can boot players from games, which the team captains often abuse and will kick players 
 who spent several minutes waiting for the game to start just because they want to play with their 
 player or for any random reason really. Just because you were the first player to enter the host's 
 game shouldn't give you the privilege to boot people. I think there should be a voting option like 
 in many other games, where you need the majority of the player's on your team votes to get booted. 
 Either that or the host should have control as in most other host-controlled games as it is their 
 server.
  
  I especially think the host should be able to boot players in the opening screen where you pick 
 teams, because way too often there will be 1 or 2 players who are AFK or just like annoying other 
 people who will not pick a team or will not press ready and they will make everyone else wait several 
 minutes to start the game and will likely get booted once the game starts anyway. So why make us 
 wait all that time for the game to start? We should be able to kick players in the team selection 
 stage of BAP online team play games. 
  
  Also, in BAP online team play games, if you are an ANY player which means you control all the positions 
 other people haven't selected, the game will randomly switch the player that you are controlling 
 during game play, even if you don't press the switch-player button. This is annoying because if 
 you want to be in control of 1 player in a certain position like up the field waiting for a ball 
 or on defense and control their position on the pitch, the game will not let you and will randomly 
 switch you to another player. I could see this happening when the ball goes out of bounds or there 
 is a foul and all the players reset positions, but in just flowing game play it is too annoying.
 
  
  So that is a lot of problems for this game that Gamespot has rated as "Great." I don't think this 
 game is even close to great. I wouldn't even say it's good. There are times when the game puts 
 everything your way and in your favor and these problems that I mention don't happen and I have 
 thought "this is a pretty good game," but as soon as all these problems I have mention start to 
 occur I just think "wow this game is terrible." And it is the fact that you cannot control these 
 problems, even if you hit exactly the right buttons, and push the joystick axis in exactly the 
 right directions , that make this game not good.
  
  At first I thought I may have been just unconsciously hitting the buttons incorrectly or in the 
 wrong direction, but I have been absolutely sure I am doing everything perfectly. And if the game 
 will not do what I press a lot of the times when I am certain I am hitting buttons perfectly and 
 in the right directions, and all of the other bugs and errors in the gameplay that I have mentioned 
 occur all the time, that is not a great, or even a good game. It is a fair game at best.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Amz1217
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 22, 2008 11:18 am PT
Review:  Fifa 2009 is a revelutionary piece of work that no PES game could ever match, this game has unbelivebly 
 superb graphics, great replay value and a lot more.
  
  This years edition of Pro Evo is abosoloute junk not worth the 40 it's worth, on the other hand 
 this years edition of Fifa is the bomb!!!!
  
  What makes Fifa superioir is the amamzing graphics, great and really fun achievements (xbox 360 
 version only) , great number of different modes, wealth of multiplayer features, attention to detail, 
 keeps you up-to-date with real life football events, attention paid to licensing, create-a-player 
 mode is really good, superb stadiums, gives you news on what's going on in the world of football, 
 Be-A-Pro mode is absoloutely great, Manager Mode gives you a real feel of what it's like to be 
 a manager...........
  
  Must I go on, it's setteled and any Pro Evo fanboy knows it themselves FIFA 2009 RULES!!!!!!!!!!!1 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sivasiva
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 17, 2008 2:19 am PT
Review:  Fifa 09 is the next installment in the ever long FiFa series and i have to say that FiFa 09 is 
 the best fifa game ever created. Part of the praise goes to the change in gameplay. This game uses 
 the UEFA 2008 engine and is definitely better than the past games' engines. The gameplay is much 
 more realistic and actually resembles to real-life soccer. But it does comes with a few problems. 
 It is now hard to dribble and is hard to stop fast players from running such as Ronaldo (Not the 
 fat one) . It is also much more difficult to turn. Difficulty has also been eased. It is easier 
 to shoot from afar and score a goal. New to the series are the ability to celebrate by pressing 
 some buttons after you score a goal. You will have to play a minigame and create a successful celebration. Then, 
 there is the new collision detection system. Bigger and stronger players can shrug off players 
 with ease. So you will see Shaun Wright philips struggling to tackle Didier Drogba. The commentary 
 is still a big problem. They tend to irritate you and repeat the same thing all over again. They 
 react slowly when you score a goal. But they still did a good job in humoring players. Graphics 
 in this game are top-notch and visuals are scintillatng. The music tracks are awesome and there 
 are top hits like 'Mercy' in this game. The manager mode returns and it is almost the same from 
 past fifa games. However, in this game, before a match, there will be stats from your opponent 
 as to who is performing and underperforming. This may give you some knowledge about the opponent 
 team. Other than that, nothing much to say. Be a Pro mode has now full seasons to play. You will 
 create a character and start the campaign. There is also a new feature in this game. There is the 
 adidas live season where EA will release weekly updates on the form of players in real-life matches 
 and you will have to visit the EA online store to download the updates.
  
  There is nothing much else to say as basically, it is the same game compared to past versions. 
 That's why my review is short. But the new engine, better graphics, awesome tracks and Adidas live 
 season and Be a pro mode make this game the best fifa game yet. Fifa 09 is a must have for FiFa 
 fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KlausRottingham
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 5, 2008 3:12 am PT
Review:  Electronic Arts' FIFA franchise celebrates its sixteenth year with another instalment in its highly 
 successful franchise. FIFA 2009 boasts an impressive 250 improvements on last year's already solid 
 engine and will look to definitively win the on-going competition with Konami's Pro Evolution Soccer 
 series.
  
  FIFA 09 should be considered a landmark achievement in the series' sixteen year history. In comparison 
 to some of the releases in the last few years, it is better in nearly every way. Gone are the 5-5, 
 7-0 blow-outs of the older games, and in is a brand new simulation style of gameplay that finally 
 lives up to the hype of being the ultimate football simulation experience. The new match play is 
 much more realistic in terms of player movement and ball control. Players will find it a lot harder 
 to dribble the ball past three players and blast the ball into the top corner five times a game. 
 This makes for a much more enjoyable experience as you will feel a great sense of accomplishment 
 when you see the ball nestling in the back of the net.
  
  For those players who may be turned away from the more simulation minded gameplay and harder difficulty, 
 there are a surplus amount of adjustments that can be made which will change game speed and computer-assisted 
 actions. This is especially helpful when you feel you have found the right difficulty for you but 
 there you have trouble with defending crosses or playing long balls etc. The assistance from the 
 computer is definitely effective, but at the same time is very subtle so you always feel as if 
 you are in control. As well as this, dynamic weather has been included from its trial in the Euro 
 2008 game. Players who are used to zipping the ball from player to player and making long, mazy 
 runs will have to re-evaluate their strategies in order to deal with wet, sluggish pitches.
  
  As is the standard for yearly games, the graphics have received an impressive amount of enhancement. 
 In terms of just looks, the graphics are far less grainy than previous games and the facial animations 
 are sharper than ever. It's not just the looks of the players either. A plethora of new animations 
 have been added ranging from all new movements via the Trick Stick, to players colliding when both 
 challenging for the ball. Another new addition is the player-controlled celebrations, when the 
 goal-scorer is wheeling away from the stranded keeper, a selection of player-specific celebrations 
 that are used by pressing shoulder buttons or rotating the analog sticks which have the scorer 
 perform a variety of actions from cart wheeling to a leap into a teammates arms. These extra animations 
 really show the incredible amount of polish that has been added to the game in order for the series 
 to progress to a higher level.
  
  The online play in FIFA 09 has also received something of an upgrade. The all new 10vs10 mode enables 
 twenty players to be in the same game, with each player taking control of one on-pitch player. 
 This is quite a controversial addition since you can only choose your position by a mad rush to 
 select it, so you can end up with a very poor player controlling the best player on the team, whilst 
 the more skilled players may unfortunately end up taking control of lesser players and will struggle 
 to make much impact. Even with twenty people all playing on the same connections, I rarely had 
 any problems with lag, but some of the more sour players decided to quit early when they were not 
 passed the ball or if they did not get the position they wanted. However, the CPU will just take 
 control of that position until somebody else decides to take part.
  
  Also in the online department is the new 'Adidas Live Season' which works much the way that the 
 NBA Live series is in regards to updating player statistics. Each week, an update will be made 
 available which change the statistics of the players according to what is happening in the real 
 life football scene. This keeps the game from ever going stale and will maintain a healthy fan 
 base for the game well into the season.
  
  width=200As is the norm for an EA Sports release, EA Trax offers an eclectic mix of all things 
 popular and generic to satisfy the mainstream audience. However, much more impressive in the sound 
 department, is the crowd ambience. The crowd will be loud and lively at the start of the game and 
 lull and become less enthusiastic when their team concedes. Every crowd in the Premier League has 
 their own unique chant recorded directly from the stadiums in real life. The chants and the cheering 
 sound completely authentic and really add to the overall atmosphere of the game and having genuine, 
 team-specific chants also adds to the simulation feel that FIFA has been trying to nail down for 
 the last few years. To go with this, the commentary from Andy Gray and Martin Taylor is top notch 
 and is much more impressive than any other football game on the market.
  
  With all this in mind, the game does have a few minor flaws. Occasionally when attempting to switch 
 players when defending, the computer will select a player that is nowhere near the ball which can 
 allow the opposing attacker to get closer to the goal and has led to an annoying number of goals 
 against me. As well as this, some of the off-ball player's movements can be fairly confusing to 
 see them ignore open space and decide to run into a large group of defenders eagerly awaiting a 
 misplaced ball.
  
  Despite a few gameplay flaws, and the awaiting cluster of online players who quit early, FIFA 2009 
 has set the bar very high for any other impending football release. With that being said, it may 
 not be the game for everyone as the casual gamer could easily be overwhelmed by the realism, but 
 for any other football fan, this game is pretty much unmissable and for that reason it is regarded 
 as one of the best games in the FIFA franchise for quite some time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: grantzee661
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 3, 2008 11:27 am PT
Review:  Fifa 09 is the best in the series of the fifa football games. It has amazing graphics and good 
 fun gameplay and multiplayer modes.
  
  A new feature on the game is be pro seasons, this is one of the best parts of the game it's like 
 it on 08 but this time it is a seoson of you being your own player or being your favourite football 
 star.
  
  compared to pes 09 I think it comes up well even though I havn't played it myself apparently it's 
 really good.
  
  Maneger mode is as good as ever the good thing about it is that you can be all the newely promoted 
 from the comfernce league.
  About the comference league you still can't have it on the game this is a shame because I really 
 like going up lot's of leagues to be the champion of the top league in that country. also the diffeculty 
 can be to easy so my thing I would do iff your a more experianced player at the start say your 
 an expert at football games or iff your average choose the intermeidiate difficulty level. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wurd
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 1, 2008 2:03 pm PT
Review:  Okay so it's probably the best footy game on the market now. EA have achieved that by copying everything 
 about the PES gameplay in fact im not sure how they can get away with it without PES at least trying 
 to sue them.
  I can't believe they charge 40 for this game considering what they've added which is essentially 
 an update to fifa 08 albeit a fairly good one.
  The new menu options are good and the 'Be a Pro' is wicked but clearly unfinished. You can play 
 for your international team but only friendles??? What's the point? It would be amazing if you 
 could play a world cup with your player.... perhaps EA have realised that and decided to 'withhold' 
 that option for the next FIFA. There is also a major bug in that mode when a player in your team 
 gets suspended they don't come back!!! I played with Roma for 2 seasons and by the end of the 2nd 
 season there wasn't a sinlge original player left, all of them being replaced by naff reserve players. 
 How the hell did a bug like that get past beta testing???? Bizzarely we were still unbeaten and 
 won the league even on professional level. And why have they limited your career to 4 seasons???? 
 Why not give us the option to play over a whole life span (15 seasons perhaps) and speed etc deterioates 
 as you get older but other stats like passing improve just like real life. If you do choose a long 
 career they can quite easily change the ratio of how much XP you get per match.
  One stupid thing about the 'Be a Pro' mode is that there is no change to how youre rated when you 
 increase the game length. So to obtain a perfect 10 each match I just put the game length to 20 
 min a half.. loads of time to score a hatrick and tons of assists! One international game against 
 Korea we won 15-1 and I scored 8 goals!!! The thing is even on 5 min halfs, after just 2 seasons 
 with the stats I had, I was probably regarded as the best player in the world (in professional 
 level) .
  
  With regards to single and multi gameplay fifa09 has some major issues. Firstly it's far too easy 
 to put strikers through 1 on 1 now and nearly all your goals will come from them. Crossing was 
 the best way in previous fifa but now it's very hard to score from crosses.. except the computer 
 teams that score most from crosses (which is more realistic) . The whole balance is just not quite 
 right when it comes to scoring goals. There aren't enough scrambled goals, deflections or from 
 crosses and unless you've got the best strikers/midfielders in the world you can forget quick snap 
 shots or shooting outside the box unless your player is totally 'balanced' when he does. It's even 
 challenging for a div 2 player (championship) to score from the near the penalty spot unless he's 
 running down on goal.
  
  Secondly and even more annoying is to cater for online play they've made almost impossible to score 
 from direct and indirect free kicks and corners. I have yet to score a direct freekick even with 
 some of the best players, I thought it was me so I asked all my mates who kane the crap out of 
 the game online and they said they very rarely score or conceed freekicks. What's the point? Why 
 not make it so you have to press certain buttons and move joystick at a perfect time to get a perfect 
 shot, if you don't get it perfect you scuff the shot or it's not as accurate or not so much bend. 
 I'm not saying put those silly moving bars in like they had in the old FIFA but more like a combination 
 of buttons pressed at the right time and the better a player is at freekicks the less accurate 
 your button presses need to be. It's not perfect but at least you'll score some great goals a season.
 
  Likewise corners are totally boring. To score you just end up crossing in the same place everytime 
 because too far to the back or past penalty spot and it's too far from goal and too close and the 
 keeper always gets it. You just never get those 2nd chances like you do in real footy were the 
 defender doesn't clear properly, it falls to the man lerking on the 6yrd box who prods it in through 
 a mass of legs or drops to the man on the outside of the box, he shoots it gets deflected and comes 
 off the donkey defenders knee caps who was up there to head it initially (you know the sort... john 
 terry ahhemm) and flies through the man on the lines legs. If you've ever been to a match or played 
 footy those goals are probably more exciting than scoring the perfect 30 yarders because you get 
 the 'he's going to score.. no he's not... yes.. no... get in!!!!' kind of thing going on. Next time 
 you watch footy game you will see all the players celebrate alot more when it's a scrambled goal 
 rather than a long range shot.
  One thing I've also noticed but I'm not sure it's me is the ridiculous amount of times the ball 
 will hit the bar and post when heading or shooting! I'm talking on average 3-4 times per 10 min 
 game and even more annoying is that it always seems to happen when the goals would have been awesome 
 like volleys or over head kicks.
  
  Okay so I've banged on enough on what's wrong with the game so what's right?
  Passing and tackling 
 are just right and theirs a lovely balance to the gamplay in terms of 'easy to play difficult to 
 master'. You do have to be more skillful than PES to win matches against friends. PES you can be 
 a complete noob and still draw 0-0 with a veteran gamer where as Fifa09 if you're a noob you're 
 going to get your ass kicked. The computer AI is excellent (although still a litltle buggy) and 
 not as repetiive as PES, they defend differently and seem to make decisions rather than follow 
 a set precedure to defend or attack. A wierd bug was once a winger was running down the wing and 
 turned back towards his goal to shield the ball and just kept running all the way back from near 
 my box to his own by-line before booting it out for a throw.
  The keepers are good and the tricks you can do are wicked, the interface is excellent (PES is just 
 awful and always has been) and online is superb (mostly because its xbox360) although you get some 
 absolute t***ers on there hurling verbal and threatening abuse if you win, occasionally threatening 
 to stab you or even actually CRYING because you beat them begging you to quit so the don't lose 
 there 48th ranking in the world.. no I'm not joking it actually happened. You get alot of people 
 on there with serious mental issues.
  
  To sum it up.. it's good fun and these games will always be but it's also very fustrating, with 
 better scoring options it could have been better and each update is a complete rip off. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RobbyL9
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 30, 2008 12:10 pm PT
Review:  The one thing I think this game is missing is a definitive season mode. I have always dreamed of 
 taking an African team to the championship, but there doesn't seem to be a season mode. Either 
 that or I'm not looking hard enough or there's simply something I'm just not getting.
  
  Other than that, the game is great. The graphics are great, the likenesses are BEAUTIFUL, the teams 
 are numerous and the action is fast-paced. The multiplayer is nothing to shrug at either, it nearly 
 gave me a heart attack the first time I beat my friend. The game was 2-2 and went all the way to 
 Penalty Kicks. We were tied in the kicks until right at the end when I blocked his final kick by 
 inches. I was so excited, I cried out my team's name and jumped around the room like crazy!
  
  Give FIFA '09 a chance, even if you aren't a hardcore soccer fan. I haven't played or watched 
 soccer since I had one digit in my age. Now here I am, 18 years old and playing it with my college 
 soccer team and I love it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LoneMercenary08
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 27, 2008 3:00 pm PT
Review:  Fifa 09... I couldn't wait for it to come out. And then it did. And I was amazed!!!!!! The graphics 
 alone are great, but the gameplay is really what makes the game for me.
  
  The gameplay is simply amazing. The character movements are a lot more realistic. No one player 
 is just "too good". There are two minor issues I have with the gameplay is (and this just might 
 be for me- i doubt it though) is crossing. Whenever I go to cross the ball, it always goes way 
 too far back; away from the goal; too far back. I seem to never be able to do this correctly. Howevre, 
 I believe I know how to stop this. The other probelm is that it seems like every time I commit 
 a foul, it's a card. And I know that every tackle deserves a card.
  
  Anyways, the graphics in this game are fantastic. Everything looks so great when you're out on 
 the field with the ball. Not really sure how else to put it, but to see these great graphics, rent 
 or buy the game... You'll see what I'm talking about.
  
  All in all, any fan of soccer HAS to buy this game. Even people that aren't HUGE fans may want 
 to rent this game. It's guaranteed fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wallisey
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 26, 2008 7:43 pm PT
Review:  In a nutshell, this game vastly improves upon its already great predecessor, Fifa 2008, in just 
 about every way. And I'll tell you how.
  
  Fifa 2008 was nothing short of brilliant, a game that I rarely went a day without playing on my 
 Xbox, and one of the only games nowadays that made me feel like I had got my moneys worth.
  
  When the demo for 09 was released, I couldnt wait to download and play it - and the wait to 
 do so was well worth it. The demo showed the game to have worked with 08's structure, and to improve 
 upon it in every way, from subtle changes to major, such as graphics, gameplay and the animations.
 
  
  The demo basically sealed my pre order for 09. 
  
  It felt like I had waited forever, but when 09 arrived, it initially felt well worth the wait. 
 I jumped straight into a game, expecting to win comfortably (but not by a massive margin) and I 
 was suprised somewhat, as I found it to be much harder to score than the demo had shown. 
  
  However, after a few games, I had soon learnt how to work with the new improvements, and found 
 myself enjoying this game a great deal. It just seemed to be more like real football, and that 
 is exactly what I wanted from it.
  
  Having played the PES 2009 Demo on Xbox, I would say that there is not even a comparison between 
 the two - Fifa is about a hundred times better in every department.
  
  Anyway, thanks EA for another truly brilliant Fifa title - more of the same for Fifa 2010 please! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lucianobpbh
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 27, 2008 12:45 pm PT
Review:  This game is the sequence of a successfully serie that is FIFA SOCCER. It worth the prize and you 
 will have a lot of fun playing it.
  The beginning of the game, you will see a little movie that shows exactly what the game is about. 
 
  You feel the ball completely free on your foot. The jogability is awesome. Best in series. Amazing 
 graphics and sounds (musics and effects during the game) .
  This game has a lot of teams from the whole world. All the teams are well madded, with the actual 
 squad and sponsorships.
  All this things, I am talking about the offline play mode.
  The online mode is perfect. It has token the FIFA 08 modes and got them bigger and completed. The 
 Be-a-Pro mode, now is with 10 player in witch team, not the 5 ones that 08 offered. 
  The ranked matches is like 08. With usually lags. Unfortunately.
  So, this game is completely 
 great. The positive scores are so many that the negatives is almost forgotten.
  It is definitely best in series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 3eyedrazorback
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 23, 2008 4:37 pm PT
Review:  When it comes to a sports game, I look for realism and correct physics. Fifa 09 hit both of those 
 right in the noggin'. With my anticipation growing for the game before it came out, I downloaded 
 the demo to play a little bit and get a little teaser to make me even more excited. After playing 
 my first game, I knew it would be a hit with me. The player movements, ball control, tackles, and 
 ball flight patterns were all just amazing. So when I got the game, I didn't expect anything less. 
 I was rewarded. 
  
  Be A Pro: This gametype is real fun and it's nice to grow your player throughout four seasons and 
 then play with your international team in the "International Cup" otherwise known as the World 
 Cup. Albeit, it took a long time to get to the end of the 4th season, and it got really repetitive 
 beating teams like a dog, but it was worth it when the international games came around. Those were 
 always a refresher throughout the campaign. In the end, the International Cup went to me (Italia) 
 like it should have. :)
  
  Manager Mode: With some new additions to the mode like Key Players and a more interactive home 
 manager screen, the mode is real entertaining. After playing so long in Be A Pro, the camera angles 
 take a little time to get used to. But aside from that, it's always nice to take a team and win 
 with them.
  
  I look forward to many many more hours spent on this game, and look forward to watch next year's 
 installment has in store. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mark_webster_87
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 19, 2008 5:27 pm PT
Review:  This is the first 360 version of FIFA I have ever bothered to play past the demo and the graphics 
 are are huge improvement over the PC version but that does not mean perfection. While player models 
 are fantastic, the majority don't look anything like the people they are based upon, which is made 
 worse by the attention to detail from there rival PES.
  
  Soundwise the game still lacks real atmosphere as the fans never really feel they are reacting 
 to the match and commentary still sounds quite dull at times. The commentary still suffers from 
 bugs which is just a complete joke as before FIFA 2008, this was so rare to find in the FIFA games. 
 The soundtrack is also one of the least impressive in recent years and tends to play the same small 
 number of song too often instead of using its full collection built into the game.
  
  Gameplay has always been a mixed bag and I feel despite some improvements, the 360 engine fails 
 to translate power & pace giving the game a slow clumsy feel to it at times.
  
  * PASSING - feels underpowered at times, which can affect the direction of the ball or lead it 
 to be simply cut out easily by the AI. Through balls are a gamble due to player runs, which still 
 need tweaking. Crossing is pretty much useless as well due to the ball spends more time hanging 
 in the air than actually moving forward and the power/direction of the cross is rarely where your 
 aiming.
  
  * SHOOTING - has been improved in the 1 on 1 area though the finesse button inside the box makes 
 it too easy and you will score 9 times out of 10. The game also suffers from the lack of a low 
 shot because any power will make the ball rise as EA seem to think you cannot hit a ball hard and 
 low, so a double tap feature needs to be placed in the game where the 2nd tap will keep the ball 
 low as possible. Another flaw with the shooting engine is that the finesse shot outside the box 
 feels so watered down its pretty much useless and heading towards goal feels vastly underpowered. 
 
  
  * DEFENDING - is a mixed bag with the AI allowed to get away with plenty of fouls mainly pushing 
 and poor slide tackles but you will get punished often and the referee will book for anything in 
 FIFA 09. Another major flaw is the AI can tackle you right back after you tackle it but you cannot 
 do the same with your players because they end up on the floor more than not or being shrugged 
 away easily. Defensive heading is better than any of the previous games but can suffer from poor 
 distance and will drop right back to the AI in the box. Dead ball and 50/50 plays are a joke as 
 the AI will win far more than you simply because your players are slow to react.
  
  The AI is much better than any previous versions but the gameplay can feel unbalanced at times 
 because the computer will find space too easy compared to yours and can skip challenges or shield 
 the ball easily compared to you. The midfielder still feels slow to join the attack and players 
 will just fail to keep up with the attack or just turn around and run backwards. The AI tackling 
 skills are a joke at times with them being able to run around fast as hell closing you down but 
 never tire and will win the ball easily. Keepers are much better though one on ones are far to 
 easy to score past. Simple fact is your own team AI is far less smarter than the team you will 
 play against 90% of the time which is not the correct way to make a game harder.
  
  The game does not warrants the 40 price tag but then thats true of so many 360 games. I have not 
 played online but have seen it and this seems one of the strongest points in the game for the 360 
 version anyway due to X BOX LIVE. The game still suffers from too many bugs and unbalanced gameplay 
 but the manager mode despite despite some flaws like the lack of a pre-season to keep the transfer 
 market open longer and online play gives the game a decent half-life to keep people playing till 
 the next version though its far from being truly faithful to the beautiful game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Legendary-Mode
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 16, 2008 6:24 am PT
Review:  FIFA 09 is the culmination of all of those tweaks. It is the coming together of a game engine now 
 supremely confident that it is the most realistic representation of the game of football the industry 
 has to offer. And it is the best FIFA game ever made.
  
  Why? Because it plays superbly, a more important factor in the game's quality than the new 10 versus 
 10 online play, the new Adidas Live Season (which imports real world, real time stats every week 
 to keep the game up to date) or the new four season Be A Pro mode.
  
  Despite the fact that you can change the game speed, FIFA plays almost sluggishly. The players 
 are more responsive than in previous efforts, and turn quicker, but if you're not controlling a 
 speed demon - Cristiano Ronaldo or Lionel Messi, for example, there's absolutely zero chance of 
 you putting clear blue sky between your heels and the defender's hacking big toe. Sure, you might 
 beat a man - using one of the many tricks assigned to the right analogue stick - but you won't 
 get away from him. 
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: paidoot
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 12, 2008 2:51 am PT
Review:  The good - great graphics and body physique's, great intense gameplay, commentators sound as real 
 as the real thing, great sound quality, 3d grass wich makes it look even more realistic BEST IN 
 THE SERIES
  
  The bad - the graphics of the croud are still a bit poor
  
  Once again fifa just keeps getting better and better. Ive always been a fifa fan more than a pes 
 fan and this game shows why. From the great realistic intense gameplay to the great depth in the 
 graphics, i love it. The 3d grass just shows how much work has been put into making this game and 
 i bet fifa is kicking pes's ass in sales already. It is one of the most addictive games i have 
 ever played. If the graphics of the croud were better and the security on the sidelines i would 
 of given this a 10.0. Best in the series for sure. If ure a fifa fan then get it and if ure not, 
 then still get it, because it is a great game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Strigidae
Rating: 5.5
Date: Nov 10, 2008 12:51 am PT
Review:  From FIFA 05 till FIFA 08, I have been a loyal and dedicated supporter of the franchise. It gets 
 exceedingly difficult to wear my 'Go FIFA' jersey these days as I feel more and more swindled. 
 As if EA just hurls recycled garbage coated in 'enhanced character model' glitter. The only good 
 thing about the last two titles is the soundtrack, either than that 09 feels just like 08, with 
 just an updated team roster and 'better graphics'.
  
  
  
  I was hoping that there would be a bit of a story line attached to 09's Career Mode, to make the 
 player feel just a fraction of interaction with his/her teams development. Sadly no. It's as if 
 they're trying to lure you with 09's Career Mode to buy EA's Football Manger. Although this is 
 understandable, since this is a company trying to make profit, you'd think after +3 years of dishing 
 out repeated, tedious, useless compost to their fans, would motivate them to put a twist on their 
 career campaign. Maybe a change in teams jerseys, grounds or footballs as they progress to the 
 first division leagues or something like that.
  
  
  
  The difficulty is also something the production team needs a waking up to. I mean... it's supposed 
 to be a game, games are a form of escapism, meaning we should win to feel good about ourselves. 
 Sure I love a great challenge in games, but life is already autrocious for billions of people, 
 now FIFA 09 has to make it worse by giving the A. I. an upper hand, making you a looser. It's like 
 a kindergarten playing against Ronaldinho or Cristiano Ronaldo. It's ridiculous. The A. I. can easily 
 steal the ball from you. Their keeper is a brick wall built from corner to corner of the goal posts 
 and our players... well ridiculously remidial. Passing is terrible, retrieving the ball even more 
 daunting and our keeper... well let's just say a blind, deaf man with a flashlight during daytime 
 could provide better saves. All in all, it's just sad to see a game with such GREAT potential repeat 
 the same jester like mistakes.
  
  
  
  Darn you FIFA. Sure most fans might say... why don't you just not play the game then? You'd be 
 right to say so, I however have this important questions to ask. For someone who once defended 
 FIFA from (now seriously competitive) titles such as Pro Evolution Soccer, with his own life, how 
 long do you think you can remain a supporter of this franchise when they repeat obvious blunders 
 and put the same old dry bread with salty water on the table, for their fans... YOU. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ssjyioti_mufc08
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 7, 2008 8:54 pm PT
Review:  FIFA 09 is by far the best soccer game ever made up to date. It has fantastic graphics and very 
 good gameplay. There is also special celebrations which you can do by pressing various buttons 
 after you score a goal. It also has all new be a pro season which is another new feature to FIFA 
 09. There is also all new be a pro online on XBOX live, which is a great mode where you can play 
 with up to ten people from around the world on 1 team against another 10 person team. Also features 
 for the first time a linesman and a referee on field. Also it has more teams and leagues than the 
 previous FIFA. It also has new modes and realistic gameplay. There is also all new adidas live 
 season and a large amount of 1 player and multiplayer game modes. If your a big fan of soccer/football 
 like I am, than FIFA 09 is the game for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bateman77
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 7, 2008 1:49 am PT
Review:  The great advantage Fifa has over Pes'09 is online mode. Pes online mode, instead, is still too 
 lagging.
  The other drawback of Pes is the second great advantage of Fifa'09: the latter is entirely new, 
 and thus so challenging; whereas pes needs a large overhaul, as it still plays the same for three 
 years now.
  That said, fifa controls have some drawback you wont find in pes offline: controls are a little 
 less responsive than in pes, which still lets you feel you're in control of the player more that 
 fifa does (although this is dramatically reduced this time) . so in fifa you'll find sometimes complaining 
 the passage didnt go where you intended much more often than it happens in pes; or the opponent 
 forward will dribble your CD just rushing.
  by the way, dribblings are in general way too difficult.
  that said, as a long-time Pes fan I'd 
 say: stick to it if offline mode's what you play most often. Otherwise, go for Fifa this yaer: 
 On line mode is an addictive fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xNiT3M4REx
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 4, 2008 8:08 am PT
Review:  Lasy year's FiFa game from the people at EA showed great potential to the soccer-genre that they 
 were going in the right direction. It just didnt deliver on all cylinders as it should have however. 
 This time around, you can clearly see that EA is going forward with it's games.
  
  -GAMEPLAY-
  Fifa 09 brings a whole lot of the same thing from last year's release. Anyone who 
 has played the games beofre this can easily put up the controller and begin playing. The great 
 thing about this year's release is that the game is more inovating and FUN. Blasting the ball into 
 the net never seemed so much fun. EA promised us a more realistic soccer experience, and they are 
 somewhat close to that. Some of my hugest gripes with the game are the same as last year. The friendly 
 AI is not that great. If you kick the ball a foot infront of the guy, he won't go for it, he'll 
 stand there. Another thing I didnt like, is the guy on the pitch we all love to hate, the ref. 
 EA has injected steroids into the guys eyes. If your TOE is infront of the defender and you get 
 the ball, they will call offsides. Also, the ref just gets in the way, if it comes to them, they 
 wount move, they will let it hit them. That was an infurating thing for me.
  
  -OTHER FEATURES-
  The features form last year's release compard to now is amazingly different. 
 You have your manager mode, your tournament mode. But you also have Be a Pro Mode. Its an incredible 
 feature that I love to play. Create a guy or pick a pro player and play JUST THEM for a whole season. 
 I liked this a lot. It brings a lot of replayability to the game. Another was lounge mode, where 
 you try to get a ton of points in a match to beat your opponent. It doesnt have to be by goals 
 scored, but by good passes and good defending.
  
  -ONLINE-
  Same as last year's release. You have the lobby, you have the fast connection, the works. Basicly 
 all of the features that are solo can be played online over Xbox Live. Good then, good now.
  
  -FINAL THOUGHTS-
  Fifa 09 is a real good step towards coming up with the perfect soccer game. 
 While not everything is perfect, all EA has to do is work out all of the kinks, and hopefully by 
 next year's release, we will have a soccer game worthy of nothing but praise.
  
  FINAL SCORE: 9/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CaShmOn3y
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 1, 2008 7:34 pm PT
Review:  After playing all the modes and spent some time in multiplayer, I came to the conclusion that FIFA 
 Soccer 09 rocks. I am not such a big soccer/football fan living in America, but this game makes 
 me want to move on to Europe and get into that deep soccer tradition man. This is one of the best 
 SPORTS games out. 
  
  The controls are great and they use the analog stick to near perfection. The newly added Be a Pro 
 mode is like MLB The Show's career mode and it works really well in a soccer perspective. The manager 
 mode is like it always was for previous FIFA owners, but new players will find it to be engrossing 
 and with a lot of features. 
  
  The multiplayer is where this game becomes even more fun. A new mode added allows the whole field 
 of players to take a position and play as that player the whole game. This can be really great 
 being a striker and attacker, but can be somewhat lackluster being a defender or goalie.
  
  FIFA Soccer 09 is the best soccer game to date and will last you the whole soccer season. Be sure 
 to pick up a copy of this whether you are a football fan or not.
  
  Robert's Score 9.0 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bergkamp_1010
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 31, 2008 5:51 am PT
Review:  Its a little bit better, than last years, passing is quicker, nut not free flowing like PES and 
 probably nver will be.
  
  Graphics - Can't go wrong with the graphics their crisper and a couple shades darker than 08 - 
 9/10
  
  Gameplay - Its a bit quicker than 08, passing is quicker, shooting's easy, free kicks are a lot 
 easier to score from than 08 and the goal celebrations are great you press LB/RB, and A, B, Y, X and 
 your player does a 4 differnet goal celebrations. 
  But when comparing gameplay to PES its still not quite there, but on the plus side FIFA has approved 
 conderably, while PES is getting worse. 7/10
  
  Be a Pro Seasons - This is fun to start off with, but only lasts 4 seasons, I think there are only 
 4 seasons your payer develops to rapidly. The camera angle is horizontal view
  I started with my created player, you start off in the reserves of your club, and move up after 
 about 10 games for me to a 1st teamer, Squad member, fan favourite, captain and then Legend, its 
 similar to country as well, you called up for your country and after 4 seasons of Be a Pro you 
 participate in the World Cup and if your team win it you reach Leagendary for your country. 8/10
 
  
  Kick Off - play aginst the COM or your mates 
  
  Manager Mode - Nothing really new, you take control of your team andlead them to domestic glory 
 or take a team from the lower leagues, and lead them through the deivisions to to top. PES now 
 has the liscense to the Chmpions league, so in FIfA it is now known as the ECC Cup. 7.5/10
  
  Xbox Live - This will keep you coming back, and there is now Be a Pro online and Online Clubs 
 where you can play a match with up to 20 people, and play in a any position, theres ranked, just 
 like kick off, (playing with your mates) yopu play people around the world, and there is rarely 
 any lag. 8.5/10
  
  Create a Tournament - You create a tournament, the same as last years, choose number of teams up 
 to 64 and win your tournament 6/10
  
  Free Roam Arena - Like last years, you can choose you player for the arena, and do tricks, score 
 goals penalties, free kicks against the goalkeeper, and there is now more that one pitch. 9/10
 
  
  
  Other Details
  
  25+ leagues
  30+ Real Stadiums
  140 Attcking options and 40 defending options
  15,000 players
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Soulja-Foy
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 30, 2008 1:08 pm PT
Review:  Fifa 09 is by far better than the 08 series by miles.
  Yea the graphics are pretty much the same, but the gameplay is so much better. I'd say better than 
 PES. 
  Still the same amount of single player gamemodes. But they've scraped be a pro mode, and replaced 
 it with be a pro seasons (you get to play four seasons as one player) . Manager mode is as good as 
 ever, this time being realistic. In Fifa 08 wigan 1st and liverpool 16th. Where as in Fifa 09 (standings 
 after my first season) .
  1) Man U
  2) Liverpool
  3) Chelsea
  4) Portsmouth
  5) Totenham
  6) Arsenal
  ...
  19) Stoke city
  20) Fulham
  As you can see it is more realistic. Player growth 
 is good, stiil a bit to quick. Transfers are'nt to realistic either. I recently bought ronaldhinio 
 for 20M where as cesc fabregas 35M. (this is down to player growth) .
  There is now no Fanshop. So all the boots are now unlocked and third kits.
  XBOX LIVE now has 
 adidas live season i have'nt done it because im a looser and dont have live. I'd also love to try 
 out 10 v 10 be a pro sounds like fun.
  Id completely recomend this game to anyfifa fan, even pes fans because the gameplays so good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: towerofgold
Rating: 5
Date: Oct 29, 2008 2:50 pm PT
Review:  The annoyingness of the FIFA series has always been unique to itself and im sure anyone whos played 
 it knows what im talking about. Its rather irritating when someone like Christiano Ronaldo or Lionel 
 Messi simply runs at your defence and does not so much as flinch when you throw yourself at him 
 allowing him to merely walk through your entire team and ignore the laws of physics and science. 
 Because of super stat players I often find myself quitting on people before games start when they 
 play as teams with certain players such as Barcelona, Milan, Manchester United and other super 
 elite teams.
  The AI is one of the worst ive seen to date. You want to pass to the guy next to you, you press 
 pass, and the dipsh** your playing as passes it to the player below the player you wanted it to, 
 and this usually results in losing the ball, which often results in an oppositions goal. Now ordinarily 
 i wouldnt mind this as you can only expect a few hicups in the AI every now and then, but since 
 this happens one in every three passes its a major flaw, all it takes is one stupid mistake to 
 send you packing and to ruin your entire play, and you cant help but feel hard done by since it 
 was no fault of your own, it was the stupid AI basta** that decided it had better judgment than 
 the human sitting at the console player the fu**ing thing. now this isnt all thats wrong with the 
 AI, in previous installments of FIFA all youd have to do is hold the A / X button and your player 
 would run after the ball or the person with the ball, in this game its much the same, with the 
 exception that the AI has about as good a trajectory calculater as a US military bomber high on 
 crack and estregine. instead of heading off players in situations where the opponent has the ball 
 your players will instead attempt to run behind them first, then realise they just let the player 
 through, then run after them like they have delayed vision or something and by that time the fu*ker 
 they let through has probably scored. Now i could go on about this all day but this game has really 
 disappointed my and i really dont wanna waste anymore time, just trust me, dont buy this game, 
 it only serves as something that will wanna make you turn into the hulk and the rip a new a**hole 
 into the nearest organic life. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Raul_albelda
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 28, 2008 9:23 pm PT
Review:  the soundtrack is awesome graphics get better but doesnt hit pes graphics and some teams in real 
 life doesnt play in the afternoon or day must be every wheater open!:/ in fact licenses are good 
 are a lot mexikan league rules but its too televisa and i hate that chain players looks better 
 in fact fifa 2008 was a **** was boring, looks bad, few stadiums, even the sountrack was bad and the 
 publik look like carton but in fifa 2009 everitthing its better the publik now looks decent cantics 
 are the best and the flags and stuff on the publik add more realisim ;) another good stuff is the 
 stadium fiifa 2009 has a bunch of them not licensed but looks like the real one for example the 
 latin staduim looks like el estadio azul from cruz azul even is the home staduim in the game of 
 cruz azul in fact this thing add even more realisim to a fan like me =) but some teams of the mexikan 
 league like amerika, cruz azul, tigres, santos or pachuka dosnt have his own cantiks bad point for 
 that coz this teams are the big ones on the league cant belive even necaxa has his real cantics 
 x) premier league this time looks great so english fans be gratefull and for our argentinian friends 
 i hope someday we can see mora argetinian teams like san lorezo, and even mora latinoamercan clubs 
 we should see the license of colo-colo see ya fellas =) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bawbag08
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 28, 2008 9:44 am PT
Review:  Fifa 09 is in my opinon the best footballing game on the planet .
  
  The old fifa franchise was runnnig out of ideas to easy to score bad gameplay it just wasnt anywhere 
 near as good as pro evo.
  
  Last year instalment was definetly a step in the right direction with it beating pro evo easily 
 last year and now pro evo were running out of ideas.
  
  And Finally this year fifa has entered a whole new league the gameplay is now fantastic. fast paced 
 real football with loads of new features like adidas live session this is where the players performance 
 in real life will affect their ablity in the game this changes from week to week. 
  
  Be a pro seasons you can play up to four seasons as your favourite player from a team or you can 
 create your very own player. 10 vs 10 online team play this is good and bad because on the one 
 hand you can have a lot of really good players or a lot of bad players who dont play properly.
 
  
  All in all this year fifa is by far the best football game pro evo this year dosent come near it 
 i used to think pro evo was better but after this installment fifa is now the best 
::::::

::::::
UserName: indianapepsi
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 27, 2008 2:40 pm PT
Review:  Okay, looks great game play is ok (a little touchy as in reaction time for keepers can be a little 
 slow sometimes. Still no weather effects in manager mode, worst I have seen is overcast day! PS2 
 have good weather effects
  
  NO unlockables! PS2 version makes you work for stuff and is more rewarding
  
  And be a pro 
 has no cup games (efa, champ league and so forth and only 4 years!
  
  I hate PES but this year Im tempted to trade, cause at least PES has a proper career mode!
  
 
  Some dodgy stuff happening already and Im only starting my second season to, some how derby county 
 managed to sneek into the champions league from the championship no doubt lol 
  
  Skill moves are also way easier to perform on PS2, but the worst thing it the REF'S, they are card 
 happy dudes, they give out card like its christmas and when advantage played i have even recived 
 a card at half time for a tackle that occured near the beginning of the half lol
  
  Really they have pumed everything into the way the game looks and then seems like the rest was 
 just knocked together! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bazza28
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 26, 2008 12:29 am PT
Review:  As I have mentioned earlier, I played both demos of fifa and pes, And in the end I have chosen 
 to buy fifa 09. A few days ago, I played the full version of PES 2009 with a friend of mine, and 
 I am happy to know that I made the right choice! 
  
  -Fantastic graphics and animation:
  
  When I was playing, my wife entered the room and she thought I was watching football. When 
 she looked me sitting in the chair with the controller in my hand, she was shocked! About the reality 
 of fifa. 
  I was too. Not ever have I seen such fluid animation of the players and such beautiful graphics 
 for a football game. The only letdown is that the game shows some slow-down on the field at times. 
 This happened not too often, but when it does, it is a bit annoying. And I am talking about offline 
 play.
  Most players look very realistic, but the less known clubs have players that do not look that good, 
 and some don't match at all. I wished EA had spend a little more time at that.
  
  Be a pro: This is a great feature I have not seen before (I didn't play fifa 08) , but I must say 
 I like it. Creating your own player (eg yourself) and trying to make it to a worldclass team after 
 starting at reserves is a nice idea, I just think that it will be boring for some gamers. That 
 is because you don't have the ball all the time, but you spend more time finding some free space, 
 taking your position etc. I personally like it though!
  
  Gameplay: The gameplay is the real gem in this game. The speed is not too fast, which was the main 
 problem with PES 2008, and the players move very fluidly. If you master the controls, you really 
 feel that you control the situation. Also, the ball rolls very realistic as well. The main action 
 will be played on the midfield, you can't outrun your opponent, so this is a game for the patient 
 player. Especially with the fact that scoring a goal is very difficult!
  The new custom-tactics feature is a nice addition to the more than complete gameplay, as it lets 
 you customize the behaviour of your team, such as pressing, agressiveness and the number of shooting 
 attempts.
  
  Conclusion:
  
  good points:
  
  -fantastic graphics
  -crowd effects
  -gameplay, especially the pace
  -many customizing options
  
  bad points:
 
  
  -some slowdown from time to time (offline)
  -very hard to score goals
  -less known players are badly detailed.
  
  I'm sorry that I didn't write anything about the 
 onlineplay, because my connection has some issues at the moment. But Fifa has so many features 
 offline, it is clear you can't go wrong with this one. As I mentioned before, I played PES 2009 
 with a friend, and the difference in quality is very clear. Go FIFA!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ev0lutii0n
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 24, 2008 3:16 pm PT
Review:  I bought this game.... I brought it back... It is the EXACT same as Fifa 08....
  
  Ok you might say it has the ten man online Be a Pro mode... I was excited by that at first... So 
 I head straight for it.... Im in a room with twenty different players... So I'm waiting... and waiting..... and 
 waiting.... and waiting....
  
  It has a timer of five minutes and when you have twenty people in a room some ones gonna go somewhere 
 or try and piss off the whole group... in this case he tried to piss us off.... and it worked..... we 
 were waiting the whole five minutes and on the 4:55 mark he set himself ready... So you have a match 
 ten minutes long..... but essentially you'll be waiting five minutes before you get anywhere......
 
  
  The Be a Pro Career mode is pretty cool..... but it DEFINITELY isn't 60 worth of cool....
  
 
  My advice is if you're intending buying this game... don't... Buy Fifa 08 instead... You'll save 
 yourself 40 and you won't be missing out on ANYTHING!
  
  I already had Fifa 08 and I just brought Fifa 09 back... made up a lie and got my money back.. And 
 spent it on Far Cry 2.... preordered Gears 2....
  
  FIFA 09 IS A WASTE OF MONEY! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Clovers16
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 23, 2008 6:02 pm PT
Review:  Although FIFA 09 is different then its last year's counterpart, it isn't a totally revamped FIFA 
 game. It still plays similarly to last year's although with many positive improvements. For instance 
 the visuals have enhanced and the players and their surroundings look much more realistic. The 
 menu is pretty much the same. The different game modes included are a ton of fun as is the online 
 play. B. A. P. Career mode is a nice addition although I don't think is it is something that will 
 have you playing it for too long, as it may get boring quick. The game play itself plays some very 
 good soccer, although it is not without its flaws. Shots from outside the box, although they can 
 be controlled, tend to be unrealistic as for some reason EA thinks the harder you shoot, the higher 
 the ball goes. Crossing has gotten much harder and is more realistic. The overall flow in the game 
 plays very much like a real soccer game, and the physical contact looks very real. Overall FIFA 
 09 is a soccer game that should not be missed by any soccer fan, as it is the best soccer game 
 to date. If you have never played a FIFA game before, now is not a bad time to start. Overall very 
 solid and very fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: theevans
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 23, 2008 7:36 am PT
Review:  FIFA 09.
  
  We've been treated to a number of great sports games in recent months. EA sports seems to finally 
 be getting it right. With greater focus on online play and features, virtually all of their 09 
 issues have been vast improvements. For years the Fifa franchise was suffering from overkill. Between 
 World Cup, UEFA and regular season releases, futball fans have been overloaded with annoying semi-annual 
 purchase decisions. Why EA hasn't put these exciting tournaments into one game is anyone's guess, 
 but im sure it has a little something to do with profit. 
  
  That aside, its time to take the pitch again with Fifa 09. With 08, EA Sports made great strides 
 to improve the soccer experience. A few months later UEFA Euro 2008 tweaked the gameplay a step 
 further. Now 09 continues the natural progression toward perfect simulation. But is Fifa 09 perfect? 
 Not yet.
  
  Gameplay: Player responsiveness is one of the game's biggest updates this season. A reworked physics 
 system (which seems to be the custom for sports games this year) really improves the way the game 
 feels. Movement, weight, acceleration, passing, dekeing and shooting feel authentic. It takes looking 
 back at past Fifa games to really notice the astounding difference. Previous iterations of the 
 series are stiff and arcadey compared to 09's impressive natural variety and dynamic aesthetic. 
 Making turns, shielding the ball and receiving passes are much more fluid and varied. Depending 
 on the size of your player, the game behaves true to form. Speedy small players feel fast and agile, 
 while larger stronger ones tackle and hold the ball better. Skill moves are plentiful and take 
 a lot of practice to be consistent and successful. The controls for many of the advanced moves 
 and tactics can be rather daunting. Combinations of bumpers, triggers and multiple button presses 
 give the game a steep learning curve if you want to be a world class player. Still, its easy to 
 jump into a game and pull off the basics. On the fly tactics are a nice addition to the series 
 even if using the D-pad to coordinate them requires an extra thumb. Jostling and battling for the 
 ball is a huge upgrade in Fifa 09. There is plenty of pushing and shoving to gain position on incoming 
 lob passes. Crosses and headers are also much improved and are well married to the new jostling 
 system. This makes for a much grittier and realistic game of futball inside the 18 yard box. Goal 
 Keeper AI is another area that EA has been stressing this season. While the keepers do behave and 
 react much better than in the past, they still make the odd choice once in a while on whether or 
 not to challenge an attacker. The rest of the computer controlled players behave reasonably well. 
 The computer AI is smart and adaptive. One of EA's biggest additions to this year's Fifa, is the 
 Adidas Live Season, where gamers will be able to subscribe to EA to receive weekly updates on the 
 big 6 international leagues (England, Italy, Germany, Mexico, Spain and France) . Real life player 
 performance is translated into how well your team members will perform in Fifa 09 via an automatic 
 download. EA gives gamers 1 free league and charges if you want supplementary leagues. Online play 
 is smooth and only begins to show slowdown on massive-multiplayer matches. Be a Pro is back and 
 now allows you to play through 4 complete seasons. The game now also supports an epic 10 versus 
 10 online mode that works great for players that understand the game of futball, but not so well 
 for inexperienced ones that tend to chase the ball like a Labrador Retriever. Gameplay, in terms 
 of control options and mode depth is by far the biggest checkmark for Fifa 09. This is the best 
 playing soccer game to date. 9.5/10
  
  Graphics: Out of the box Fifa 09 looks to be a marginal improvement from 08. Player models have 
 been given a bit more detail. Most of the big name stars are clearly identifiable. The faces on 
 players like Rhonaldinho and Rooney are simply fantastic. The stadiums look great. There are a 
 fair amount of licensed pitches in the game that look just like their real life counterparts. One 
 area that has been beefed up is the animations. Fifa 09 looks much more dynamic because the animations 
 mirror the advancements made in the physics engine. No place is this more evident that the new 
 collision system, where players react dynamically depending on their stature, speed and direction 
 of a tackle. Players running at full speed will now topple like bowling pins on slide tackles to 
 their feet. Emotional reactions are fairly realistic and varied as well. The crowds in Fifa 09 
 are decent but lag behind those in other EA Sports games like NBA. Its great that EA has lifted 
 that ridiculously blurry Photoshop filter of years past, but more crowd models and animation variety 
 is needed to really bring stadiums to life. With choices on grass patterns, kits, time of day and 
 weather there are plenty of options for gamers to enjoy their futball. There are a few issues with 
 the camera panning inside of polygons on stadium shots between play. All in all this game looks 
 amazing. 9/10
  
  Sound: The area that has seen the least attention seems to be the sound. That's not to say Fifa 
 09 doesn't sound great, because it does, but just very familiar to last year. The commentary remains 
 virtually unchanged. They do a good job of calling the action and provide enough variety, with 
 only a few select captions being overplayed. The music is fine and filled with your typical pop 
 European tracks during menu navigation. Crowds are just as loud and responsive to the action on 
 the pitch as they've always. This gives the game another level of authenticity. No real revolutions 
 in sound for Fifa 09, but well done just the same. 8.5/10
  
  Presentation: The presentation for 09 is decent. EA didn't take many liberties to push the envelope 
 this year. A nice selection of camera angles, custom settings and replays return to marginally 
 elevate the broadcast appeal. Fifa suffers from the same affliction as all other current EA Sports 
 games - a lack of innovation and dynamic presentation. Pregame buildup is the same as it has been 
 for a few years now. Players wait in the tunnel before walking on the pitch, the camera pans around 
 the stadium and the starting lineups are introduced with a graphic overlay. That's all fine and 
 looks great, but EA could do more with it. Highlights could be enhanced with some accompanying 
 commentary. Halftime analysis and post game wrap-ups would be most welcome. Big matches could be 
 given some extra hoopla. Another issue with Fifa 09 is the menu. It follows the same basic look 
 as other EA sports games, but makes a few questionable choices with navigation. For example, to 
 set up a CPU vs. CPU match you have to first select a side, advance through 4 screens to set up 
 the teams, kits, game options and then back all the way out to the side select screen again and 
 move the controller to the middle before initiating the match. Not very friendly. Once the game 
 gets going the presentation is very good. Games look close to broadcast quality despite the absence 
 of those extra features mentioned above. 7.5/10
  
  Overall: The gameplay is incredible and has a ton of depth. The graphics are very polished with 
 a few small blemishes. The sound is on par with years past, and the presentation could use a facelift. 
 All in all, Fifa 09 is a wonderful sports game. The multiplayer is a lot of fun. The addition of 
 10 on 10 online play takes the game in a bold new direction. Be a Pro is back and better than ever. 
 This game definitely deserves a look for the casual sports gamer, and is absolutely worth a purchase 
 to those hardcore futty fans. Final rating 8.8/10
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: JB1994
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 22, 2008 8:02 am PT
Review:  Gameplay- (9.0) FIFA 09 is definitely the most realistic football game ever made, everything on 
 the pitch feels and looks so realistic, the AI can be a little stupid sometimes.
  
  Graphics- (8.5) Everything looks great in FIFA 09, the stadiums, the player models and everything 
 else. But it really isn't anything special for 360.
  
  Sound- (9.2) FIFA 09 sounds great. The sound track has some great songs done by well known artists 
 and out on the pitch it sounds incredible, the cometary is very realistic and the crowed sounds 
 great.
  
  Value- (9.0) Theres so much things to do in FIFA 09, it should cost no more then 50, and less 
 then that then it will be a solid purchase.
  
  FIFA 09 is personally for me the best in the series, i think that PES2009 will have real challenge 
 on there hands this year for them to beat FIFA, but from what ive seen i think that FIFA 09 is 
 the one to buy this year. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pgmonkeeuk
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 21, 2008 7:47 am PT
Review:  It's an argument that has been raging for years, splitting gaming communities, friends and even 
 familieswhich is better, EA's Fifa series or Konami's Pro-Evolution Soccer? And just like that 
 classic question "Which do you preferElvis or the Beatles?" - you can't like them both equally. 
 
  
  Such Fence-Sitting is ridiculed by the footballing community and is purely reserved for the pundits 
 on Match of the Day. 
  
  One game to rule them all (wait, isn't that Lord of the Rings?) ! One victor - celebrating in a 
 communal bath drinking champagne from a silver cup, whilst the loser sulkily brushes mud off of 
 their dirty boots wishing they were somewhere else.
  
  EA have arguably been losing ground in this debate these past years  Pro Evo has struck a chord 
 with the purists, offering a more realistic feel and despite Fifa having all the usual glitz, glamour 
 and outstanding graphics, it's playability and depth have let past games down.
  
  Enter Fifa 09 then  a game, which many believe to be best of the series, and it certainly looks 
 the part. Every player from the major teams (and even Manchester City lol) is duplicated in great 
 detail  and yes Wayne Rooney does get uglier every year. Every team-strip, every ground is spot 
 on perfect  something which we have, of course, come to expect. Commentary is probably the best 
 on any sporting game, let alone footy, as Andy Gray & Martin Tyler ramble on about events, clubs 
 and players  it's like listening to Sky Sports.
  
  But what's really impressed me this time out this the level of choice you have. There's menu after 
 menu for different types of gaming options  maybe a bit confusing at first, but you'd rather have 
 too much than too little, right? And on Xbox Live, Fifa welcomes you with open arms to a massive 
 world of gaming. Up to 20 people can play at once in one game  not 2, not 4, not 8  Twenty! That's 
 every outfield player. Of course, this can create lagging issues  which is something EA will have 
 to look at for future games. But just imagine the scope of this! It's positively huge!
  
  Adidas Live is also an interesting feature which marries real-life form of players from all over 
 the world and brings them into your Xbox 360. However, you need to be pretty dedicated and quite 
 well-off to carry on this experience past your free trial as it's quite an expensive add-on.
  
  Be-a-Pro has been improved upon, lengthened and it gives you a different slant to the game 
 by thrusting you directly into the action on the field, taking control of one player throughout. 
 Although it does give you an alternative take on the gameplay, it probably won't be very rewarding 
 if you choose a career with a defensive player  unless you choose to bomb forward at every opportunity 
 like a young Roberto Carlos. 
  
  Actual gameplay has improved slightly  EA are getting better, but I think they are still some 
 way off of re-creating a perfect match of football. Passes are still too precise, too accurate, 
 too linear. It's very rare that you'll hit an errant pass and I think it gives Fifa 09 an artificial 
 feel. The odd mis-placed kick, slippage or even the classic "two defenders going for the same ball" 
 (Tottenham fans  you know what I'm talking about) wouldn't go amiss. 
  
  Unfortunately in Fifa 09, this type of school-boy buffoonery is only reserved for the Goalkeepers. 
 Goalkeeping AI is sometimes quirky, rash, eccentric and downright laughable on occasion. By contrast, 
 outfield players tend to be clever, spritely, quick-witted and determined. This game gives Goalkeepers 
 everywhere a bad name! 
  
  Never the less, this no-doubt accidental side issue makes for entertaining matches  and that's 
 exactly what the public craves.
  
  So who will win the match between EA & Konami for footballing glory? Well, Fifa 09 has had a good 
 few weeks headstart over Pro-Evolution Soccer. And in these credit-crunched times, not many gamers 
 will buy both. I'm not going to tell you to choose Fifa, however  you will find everything you 
 will ever need right here in this game. This has been a solid attempt by EA to improve. 
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: c2k1
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 17, 2008 4:42 pm PT
Review:  Fifa is one of the best soccer players. they have so many players compare to PES2009. The players 
 act quickly and fast. Goalkeeper is awesome with moves. Every goal is different and nice. So far 
 they are getting better and better. I have to wait and see how good is to PES 2009. 
  You must buy this game. worthy.
  I have been playing Fifa series for many years. This year they 
 improve a lot. getting better and better. 
  I have been playing Fifa series for many years. This year they improve a lot. getting better and 
 better.
  I have been playing Fifa series for many years. This year they improve a lot. getting better and 
 better.
  I have been playing Fifa series for many years. This year they improve a lot. getting better and 
 better.
  I have been playing Fifa series for many years. This year they improve a lot. getting better and 
 better.
  I have been playing Fifa series for many years. This year they improve a lot. getting better and 
 better. I have been playing Fifa series for many years. This year they improve a lot. getting better 
 and better.
  I have been playing Fifa series for many years. This year they improve a lot. getting better and 
 better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Elite-Realist
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 16, 2008 5:39 pm PT
Review:  EA finally nailed it down with the seal of a masterpiece. This is one of the best Soccer games 
 I have ever played actually "It is the Best". 
  
  The previous games were ok and I love them all but EA even though am not a fan. I must signal respect 
 to them. They finally got it right, this game nailed PES to its coffin.
  
  What makes this game so special is the new game play style. Astonishenly realistic, from the movement 
 of the players to the movement of the ball. You are always on the edge of your screen pressing 
 your controller bottons as hard as possible. The 10 v 10 is a brilliant addition to the game. This 
 game is a most play, it just set a new bar for the sports genre all together.
  
  While everything is brilliant game play wise, the online lag can still be a bit frustrating nothing 
 major. I also find it annoying in 10 v 10 when a player drops out it totally distroys the game. 
 
  
  In addition FIFA 2009 is a most buy if you can afford it and its well worth it if you have broadband 
 connections or friends that are into soccer games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fazares
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 16, 2008 12:01 pm PT
Review:  This year everyone from the press to the average joe knows that fifa has finally surpassed its 
 long time rival pro evo soccer, the former king of football gaming simulation.... something that 
 was unthinkable a few years ago.
  The credits goes to the core engine developed since fifa 07 by Kaz Makita and taken to new heights 
 by british programmers Dave Rutter and Gary Patterson.
  Goal storm (we1 pal vers.) amazed me so much during the
  ps1 era... then iss64 and we4 looked like 
 a breaktrough... i didnt know how much realistic a football game could get after those but then 
 it came pes1 (we5 pal vers.) for the ps2... a true generation leap.
  After that, imagining a more realistic game became just a wishful thinking, for years konami milked 
 that fantastic engine... but now we are in the next generation... fifa 09 is the game with the most 
 advanced gfx (players looks as good as fn3 models from close ups) , ai (both difensive and offensive) 
 and physics (ball and player animations) ... particularly the combination of defensive ai and uber 
 realistic physics makes taking the chance to score a simple shoot a quite hard task
  it really takes some patience and games always end with realistic scores.... it makes pes2009 look 
 like an arcade game... a very funny thing if u know how long the opposite has been the truth.
 
  Concluding, fifa 09 gave me the same feelings some of the old 3d football games gave me in the 
 past... its really a breaktrough a ... new milestone in the advance to the perfect football sim... and 
 dont forget the flawless online, live season, dozens of football leagues, original licences (except 
 some serie A team) , game modes (i love the arena) and the cool trick system that never feels broken 
 all of those are the classing cherry on the pudding.... a tasty one:-)
  Go buy it... this is just as realistic as a football sim can get now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Luigi081
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 16, 2008 9:59 am PT
Review:  Where can I start with this game? There are so many amazing things on there. Firstly the Adidas 
 Live League (I think that what it is called) well you get 1 season trial and it is amazing it updates 
 player's attributes according to their most recent match in real life. 
  Then you have the ten on ten match which is just the best thing to play, especially if 10 of your 
 mates have the game :) .
  The manager modes are also very good because of the interaction with the media, where you are asked 
 questions and you answer. This can change your job status.
  On the Xbox 360 there are some good achievements available, some of the secret achievements are 
 good:
  Score 5 and 20 goals in 1 session of the arena
  Judas - Beat your team with their rivals
  The graphics are the best I have seen on any Xbox 
 game to date. The players faces look extremely realistic.
  There are many skills to master including The Rainbow Flick.
  I recommend this game to football 
 fanatics and anyone with a passion for sport games.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: kenczx85
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 16, 2008 7:36 am PT
Review:  Let's make this clear, I'm an Unbaised soccer sim gamer who has player more of PES and Winning 
 11 over the past 5 years over the different consoles and systems. I must admit the last EA soccer 
 game I played was Euro 2008.
  Throughout my review, I'd be giving my thoughts with reference and comparison to PES in case some 
 of you want to know how the 2 games compare to one another.
  
  As you can read from my review deck. I believe they wanted to put PES2009 and FIFA09 on the same 
 level to create some competition. Let me say this, PES2009 has to work at least 2 times as hard 
 to get to this level.
  
  EA has worked extremely hard to put together this sports sim. Let's check out the last soccer sim 
 they released. EURO 2008. Since then, lots of changes have been implemented. The physics of players 
 leaning, climbing on top of each other is extremely realistic. The way players collide is unpredictable 
 and gives you the feeling like you can actually feel collision of the players.
  
  The commentary is great as usual. No complaints there.
  Go compare the commentary to PES2009, 
 or PES2008. You'll get what I mean. Thats right, Konami didn't even sit down to think of how they 
 could improve their commentary.
  
  Good things to note would be, rosters are well updated. 
  I'm using MU, and players really want 
 to see new signings added to the latest edition of a soccer sim. This is a must and FIFA has delivered 
 in this area. Berbatov is there, Manucho, Possebon and the rest.
  My point being they've made an effort to have a complete squad. Something that PES is severely 
 lacking.
  Not to mention all the appropriate licenses are there.
  
  Controls are superb. I really enjoy the arena. Practising, tricks, shooting. You name it you got 
 it. 
  
  Graphics. Player models are extremely accurate. Way more acurate than PES2009 models can ever be. 
 For 1, PES2009 did copy and paste for most of their models. Look at rooney, ferdinand, evra, the 
 whole list goes on. Player animations. Unlike PES2009, idle players bend unrealistically, stretch 
 out their arms and bob like chimpanzees in a club.
  
  Player animations. Each player you control in fifa is uniquely designed. Shoots differently, runs, 
 passes differently. Go ahead and look at PES 2009. All the players run alike. It's impossible to 
 play PES2009 and not tell myself, its the same as PES2008.
  
  Of there's there are all sorts of game modes I haven't tried, addidas live season, 10 v 10. 
 
  
  But for now, let's just say, its the best soccer sim I've ever played period. If you haven't got 
 your copy. Grab it now. Cheers and enjoy. If you think that PES2009 sucked, give me a hell yeah! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aduana69
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 16, 2008 7:16 am PT
Review:  I am an avid Pro evolution Soccer Fan but this game has changed my opinion in FIFA games I have 
 played a lot of soccer games and by far this FIFA th 2009 series is the best yet and I have to 
 say its amazing. It got it last week and men its beautiful. 
  The graphics are well presented and the rooster is extensive and organized when you used your tactics 
 for offensive playing or defensive work right. The controls are sharp and comprehensive. the fact 
 that you can play on-line its refreshing but in my case I rather play with friends because I assure 
 you will have a nice time.
  Its not a 10 because the menus are kind of confusing ( to many ) but overall this game has changed 
 my opinion in FIFA series the movements of the player looks fluid. Believe me this game its a must 
 buy for all the soccer or like we say in South America FUTBOL fans I highly recommended, enjoy 
 and scream gooooallll 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wonderboy_46
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 16, 2008 2:18 am PT
Review:  Another football season has kicked off and the title race for the footie game crown is underway. 
 In the last few years Konami has been making small incremental changes with its Pro Evolution Soccer 
 franchise, while EA have been taking more risks with FIFA. This year those risks are finally paying 
 dividends for the legendary series. There are some bugs and glitches, but FIFA 09 is till the best 
 EA has ever produced.
  
  Last year's FIFA was a big step forward for the franchise, while PES had yet another season of 
 only minor alterations. FIFA 09 has changed dramatically this time around. The graphics have become 
 more gritty (read: less "greasy" players) and the pace of the game has become much faster.
  
  The major issue with FIFA 08 was the very sluggish nature of the passing. To speed up passing 
 and give the game a more realistic pace EA have introduced a power meter even for basic passes, 
 a feature which they attempted before (disastrously) in FIFA 2002. Thankfully they've pulled it 
 off this time and it works wonderfully well. The range of passing animations means you'll quickly 
 be clipping balls with the outside of your boots and producing all manner of disguised passes with 
 the deft skill of United's Ronaldo. 
  
  Lobbed passes are now much more effective as well. In previous iterations they would hang in the 
 air for too long, allowing opponents to sneak in and steal possession while you wait for the ball 
 to arrive. The ball now moves faster in the air and lobbed through-balls are more intuitive as 
 well.
  
  Somehow they've even managed to improve the presentation. In the last two iterations of the series, 
 your loading screen was a 1-V-1 game against a goalie in a stylised arena. When loading finished 
 you had to press start to begin the match. Now though, the arena fades out and you find yourself 
 playing during a warm-up in the packed stadium. It's a beautiful transition which captures stadium 
 atmosphere like never before.
  
  My favourite new feature though, is the ability to control goal celebrations. After you score you 
 maintain control of your player and can use the left stick to run towards your fans while you pull 
 the right stick in different directions (or use the face buttons) to gesture to the crowd. In 10-V-10 
 online matches this is great fun as you run to the corner flag with your mates.
  
  The gameplay in 10-V-10 follows the style of 08's "Be-A-Pro" mode. This is where you play as one 
 player in a team of other AI players. You need to hold position correctly and perform the role 
 assigned by your manager. In 09 this is expanded to a career mode in which you create and develop 
 a single player and it also forms the basis of 10-V-10 online, where you and friends fill out a 
 full squad of players (except for the goalie) . This is a great idea, but unfortunately it doesn't 
 always work so well. You'll often find that matches look less Premier League and more Kids' League 
 as players all become desperate for the ball and everyone just follows it around the pitch. Get 
 in a game with more competent footballers though and you'll find an amazing and deep online experience.
 
  
  Other new online features include Adidas Live Season, which is a subscription service allowing 
 you to update player stats based on real-world form. So if Ronaldinho has a bad game for AC Milan 
 in real-life, then he'll become less effective in the game until his real form improves. It's interesting 
 in theory but paying extra for this kind of service is an unnecessary addition that won't add any 
 extra gratification to the game.
  
  You'll find the usual versus matches in ranked and unranked flavours too, which work the same as 
 always, though they could do with a patch to cure the lag that blights the occasional game.
  
  All of the usual kick-off, tournament and manager modes are in the game, but the final major 
 addition is the custom tactics concept. This works similarly to car-setups in a racing game, allowing 
 you to develop your own formations and tactics and then upload them for other players to try. Like 
 so many of the new features it adds a lot of depth for those who are seeking out an immersive experience, 
 but the majority of players will pass this by.
  
  FIFA's core gameplay was made solid in last year's title, but the additions for this year have 
 really made a difference, especially in the online space. Almost every complaint I had about last 
 year's single player game has been addressed as well. With a game this polished and with gameplay 
 that flows so well, both online and off, FIFA 09 is without doubt the best football game of this 
 generation. Now its Pro Evo's turn to take some risks to reach the bar that EA have raised higher 
 than ever before. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jasfir
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 14, 2008 7:52 pm PT
Review:  I think FIFA 09 is a near perfect football game now. Really tight controls & its now more a simulation 
 football game & thats the way I like it. Graphics are what you'd expect from a FIFA game & the 
 Adidas Live Season updates are a great addition, a little bit expensive but if you're a footie 
 junkie like me, its worth getting & it will enhance the realism of the game.
  The bar has been raised.. can PES 2009 respond ? Judging from PES 2008.. its gonna be a real challenge 
 for the guys at Konami.
  
  Online was quite smooth, just a little lag but it was ok after a minute or so. Just a word of advice 
 for the newbies to FIFA 09, the AI opponents in this game are pretty relentless in getting the 
 ball (especially in Professional Mode) but thats the way it should be.
  
  This game gets a 2 thumbs up !! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LinkSan
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 14, 2008 3:02 am PT
Review:  This is the first time I started playing FIFA again since 1999, back then I was a huge fan of the 
 FIFA football games. I also enjoyed International Superstar Soccer back then, even more than FIFA. 
 But FIFA always had the club teams and the domestic leagues, which mainly caught my eye. The reason 
 I stopped playing FIFA for so long is due to Winning Eleven 4, the first time I played that game 
 I was instantly hooked, it had everything to me. National teams, and club teams. And with the super 
 competition called Master League, I was set to enjoy almost ten years of Konami's marvelous games. 
 But this changed last year when I bought PES 2008, I had very high hopes for this game because 
 Pro Evolution Soccer 6 was flawless in my eyes. But after that very disappointing year, me and 
 a friend of mine started thinking about the possibility of FIFA. Not just because we hoped that 
 would be a better football game, but also because tournaments in football games, are usually playing 
 FIFA. We decided to see what PES 2009 was like, and after playing the demo for both FIFA and PES, 
 we decided it was time to give FIFA a chance at regaining it's throne.
  
  The graphics look both good and bad, I'll explain why. The pitch and the players and the stadium 
 all look good, as does the movement of the players. It's all incredibly lifelike, I had a friend 
 sitting next to me the other day who didn't care for games whatsoever, and he said it was like 
 looking at a real game of football. Nice detail to me are when two players fight for the ball shoulder 
 to shoulder. You can clearly see the struggle between them to claim the ball. From what I've seen 
 from the crowd, no complaints. This is always a point for debate, I say it's fine, but that may 
 be because I don't care about how realistic the crowd looks. What I don't like about the graphics 
 is that the players themselves don't come close to what they look in real life. Maybe this is because 
 I don't play with the big teams like Real Madrid, Manchester United or AC Milan, but when I look 
 at Huntelaar (who, you say? He's the striker for Ajax) it doesn't even come close to what he really 
 looks. There are more than enough player from Holland who are regarded as some of the best players 
 in the world, but since the KNVB didn't allow the real names to be used in the national team for 
 Holland, I can't really judge them either.
  
  I think the sound in FIFA 09 is great, the songs I hear are way better than what I always heard 
 in PES, which is nice for a change. I also like the fact that you get the commentary from your 
 own country, I chose Holland and got Evert ten Napel and Youri Mulder as commentators. This however 
 got boring after two matches, and now it's so annoying that I play music when playing FIFA, but 
 that's just me, it's great that there's an option like this. It also shows me that FIFA still has 
 that eye for detail in these kind of things. The way the crowd is, could have been better, I don't 
 feel the same atmosphere when playing an away game, especially with your archrival or direct competition, 
 they could have done more with that. I would have liked it that when my has a free kick in a dangerous 
 position, in an away game, you hear the crowd booing and stuff like that. Or when you score a goal, 
 you hear the crowd falling silent, that would be a nice little detail that would add that extra 
 bit.
  
  When you're used to always playing PES like me, it's hard to play a different football game and 
 getting it under control. Sure, it's easy enough to learn how everything works, but to use it in 
 your games and play well enough to beat your opponents online is a different story. What I had 
 trouble with was the fact that the classic controls in FIFA are pretty much the same as they are 
 in PES, except for that fact that the button for a shot and for a cross were the opposite. So X 
 was now used for a cross and B for a shot. Luckily you can change the controls to alternate so 
 that it matches the controls in PES, which would be good to know for all PES players out there 
 who might be thinking of switching to FIFA as well. What I notice in FIFA is that it's a lot harder 
 to get past your opponent one on one, but then again it is easier to maintain ball possession. 
 For an easy way to keep possession, I noticed that playing the ball around quickly is very effective, 
 this could also just be because I haven't played anyone serious yet online, but at the least it's 
 got to be very annoying for your opponent. As to getting past your opponent one on one, it probably 
 takes some getting used to, but for now, unless I'm confident, I'll take a detour.
  
  I haven't played FIFA 08 so I don't know if this was there as well or not, but in FIFA 09 you can 
 crawl in the skin of your favorite player or create your own and start your career in Be a Pro. 
 In Be a Pro you get to play as one player of the team. You have four seasons ahead of you in which 
 you can become the greatest player in your team and a legend for your country. You do this by controlling 
 just one player, the player you chose to create or a player that is already in your team. Before 
 each games you get three objectives, these differ according to what position you choose to play. 
 I'm currently playing as Huntelaar and I get objectives that have to do with attacking. By completing 
 these objectives you can earn experience points, and after you have saved up enough points, you 
 can spend these on your talent, this will raise the stats of your player. You can eventually choose 
 to leave your club and play for the big teams in countries such as England, Spain or Italy. This 
 game mode takes four seasons, in this period your goal is to reach legendary status for your club 
 and country.
  
  If you don't want to play Be a Pro, which I could understand, since to me it is incredibly boring 
 and at times frustrating as hell, you can always choose to be a manager or just play a competition 
 without any hassle. You have an incredibly wide range of competitions to choose from, the big countries 
 all have at least two leagues, with England having four. And there are a bunch of, with no offense, 
 insignificant leagues such as the Czech, Polish or Swedish leagues. If offline gaming isn't for 
 you, then there's always Xbox Live, which is packed with numerous possibilities. You can create 
 your own competition for a maximum of 32 players, or you can assemble 20 people in a game room 
 to have everybody fulfill a position on the pitch. I recommend the last one only to people who 
 are serious about it, if not, you'll just have 20 people on the pitch running mindlessly after 
 the ball, which will get you nowhere and is not fun at all. Ofcourse there's also the standard 
 1vs1 ranked and unranked matches. I'm not entirely sure if it's possible to play 2v2 games, I believe 
 it is possible, but you can't control it, you'd have to be lucky enough. Your games might also 
 end up in 5vs5. I haven't tried this yet, but a friend of mine is getting this game as well, when 
 he does we'll be testing if it's possible or not.
  
  Fun extras in FIFA 09 are the results you can see of games played in all domestic leagues, Champions 
 League and UEFA Cup. Just the other day I got treated to seeing that SC Heerenveen crushed Ajax 
 with 5-2, while these are moments that don't highlight the option for me in a positive matter, 
 it's still great to see that they thought about this, just another small thing that adds something 
 extra to the game, at least for me.
  
  To me, FIFA 09 turned out better than I expected. This is because after all these years playing 
 PES, FIFA was just the game that was played by people that wanted to score impossible goals and 
 always end with the game with scores such as 9-5 or something like that. It's only been two or 
 three years since FIFA got better and better. And now all that you hear is arguments why FIFA or 
 PES is better. When PES 2009 comes out I'll be getting that games as well. Not right away though, 
 I want to hear and read about it more before I buy it. I hope this review has helped you in your 
 decision in whether or not you want to buy this game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: lovets
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 13, 2008 3:50 pm PT
Review:  Fifa has came a long way since its Arcady styled gameplay, now fifa 09 is the most realistic football 
 game out their today, and its defently the best and deepest fifa game to date, is it better than 
 pes? yes! pes had the gameplay but fifa had the presentation and content, well not any more move 
 over pes we have a new champ, fifa is deeper more realistic and more fun, then pes gameplay, well 
 lets start off with fifa 08 it was sluggish and wasn't a great game, to be honest but it had great 
 potential with the player to ball physics system and allot of people thought surely 09 EA would 
 have cracked it and they have. its a fast but realistic balance of play, its allot more responsive 
 the shots passing heading tackling through balls etc is all much much better than any fifa game 
 ever made, the shots are always unique with different players and always exciting to shoot, and 
 really feels like you blast the ball, well that's if you do the normal shot you can chip shot, 
 and you can finesse shot which is extremely effective which basically is a placed shot that you 
 can curl and aim with precision where you want the ball to end up, and if very effective with certain 
 players like Rooney or ronaldinho. and also which is a very good thing is the animation is amazing 
 and the players you know and love in real life play exactly like in the game, and so if your playing 
 as your supporting club, and you know the players very well and use them to their strengths as 
 you know what their good at in real life, you can be unstoppable, also the custom tactics and changing 
 formation now makes a huge difference how you play, and you should give it a try to know what I 
 mean, well that's the gameplay the gameplay is pretty much perfect..... well almost, their are flaws 
 in it still, like the chest control is poor and chests it the wrong direction you say, and although 
 the responsiveness is very good sometimes shooting can take to long and you get tackled.
  
  now that's the gameplay what about the other stuff the graphics and sound, are amazing and what 
 you expect from fifa, the graphics push the limits of the 360 and ps3, and the weather effects 
 look nice and also completely change the gameplay as the ball zips and splashes on the pitch, the 
 soundtrack is liceneced and a good selection as you expect from ea sports, and the commentary is 
 similar to last you with some new words, but sometimes they say dumb things like e. g. you block 
 a shot and it goes out for a corner and the commentators say that's the worst shot ive ever seen 
 that's miles wide, or things like when you do a barley hard challenge the commentator goes he's 
 lucky not to get sent off. design and features, are good their are plenty of stuff to do on fifa 
 BAP 10v10 online which is great 1v1 online create clubs adidas live season tournaments MM and many 
 more, there are some disappointments though, MM (manager mode) is presentated nicely and has a 
 new presentation but its escatly the same as last year as well as tournament mode, but be a pro 
 seasons is a new feature and is a great feature but you only get 4 seasons, there's also no new 
 clubs but is understable coz fifa has allot of teams but should have zenit st Petersburg seeing 
 as they won uefa cup and super cup in 1 year, should have been put in rest of world.
  
  there are allot of bugs though EA have been a little careless but is understandable when they worked 
 very hard on gameplay, but however EA need to patch this up as they are minor but built up to be 
 major problems and are frustrating 
  ok the weather is great and changes the gameplay immensely but can only be played on BAP seasons 
 or kickoff not on MM which moves onto the other bug, on MM (manager mode) its always day, but there 
 is a way to change it you have to go on settings on kickoff and change it to overcast, then you 
 would think you would get weather but it never rains or snows, on MM, and its not variable and 
 changes it self you have to do it by going on kickoff which needs to be patched up. also on MM 
 there is no way to edit player numbers, and when you buy a player it automatically goes to number 
 2 for some reason. also there's a few gameplay bugs the main noticeable one is, if you tackle someone 
 that is about to kick the ball allot of the time in pings across the pitch about 70 mph, which 
 is ridiculess and needs to be patched, also you will think that you get booked for no reason it 
 is a reason you just don't notice, when you foul someone but advantage can be played the ref carries 
 on and then books you when the ball goes out of play, but there should be a replay shown to tell 
 you.
  
  Fifa 09 is arguably the best football game ever made, and even pes fans are starting to grow on 
 the fifa franchise which they used to hate, if your looking for a football game that you want to 
 last you along time that's worth your 40 than this game is for you and I strongly recommend you 
 to get it. it is let down slightly by minor bugs or missing things but can be patched up by EA 
 for free (hopefully)
  
  summary
  gameplay-9.6
  graphics/sound-9.7
  content/features-8.9
  value-10
  overall 9.0- let down by minor bugs 
::::::

::::::
UserName: adrian7hall
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 11, 2008 2:53 pm PT
Review:  The last few games that EA have brought out in the Fifa range all started promising, had people 
 salivating at the prospect of playing another true to life game of football, and had people wondering 
 if Pro Evolution Soccer had finally been replaced. Fifa 08 came close last year, but ultimately 
 the game was too broken in terms of natural flow and annoying glitches to claim that title outright. 
 Yes 08 was better than PES 2008, but in my opinion it wasn't the best Football game out on the 
 market (that belonged to PES6 on the PS2 - unbeatable) .
  
  Fifa 09 though overtook any PES game in my eyes as soon as the demo was released. The gameplay 
 is just astonishing, and is readily available for any segment of the footballing market to play. 
 Whether your new to the game franchise and just want to pick it up, or your the next Alex Ferguson 
 and plan your games right down to the smallest strategy - this game tailors for your needs, and 
 with the new physical aspect of the game can shape your games. 
  
  The first section of my review I would like to talk about the most important aspect of the game 
 - how it plays. Everything just about feels right with the game. Passing is precise (unless under 
 pressure) , shooting with the right players and the right angle can be deadly, tackles (especially 
 slide) can be crunching, and dribbling with the right players can be mesmeric. Nothing on other 
 football games feels as special as a team move on Fifa 09 which results in quick passing, an inch 
 perfect cross met by a superb glancing header to beat the keeper. Or, an inch perfectly timed slide 
 tackle to thwart the attacker when ready to pull the trigger, saving your team. 
  
  Gripes about gameplay, one is the booking system. I like how the referee pulls the game back for 
 incidents which could affect the flow of play, but sometimes it gets ridiculous. One time, I had 
 three individual players booked for seemingly innocuous challenges - in a row after play had stopped! 
 Also, red cards are given out too easily for players sliding and catching other people away from 
 the ball. Its too frequent that the computer changes your player when your about to time a slide 
 tackle, so you nail someone no-where near the ball - and march for it.
  
  Another gripe is the use of tricks. Yes it looks nice when its pulled off, but it would be nice 
 to have a trick stick that actually fooled the AI or opponents, rather than just look like a pointless 
 animation. Step overs in real football are meant to put the defender on the back foot so the attacker 
 can drift past them - on this game a step over does nothing special, it just looks nice if it works. 
 
  
  Set pieces now feel more refined, and with practice you can become as deadly as David Beckham from 
 corners and free kicks. You can apply all kinds of swerve, or just screw that and opt 100% for 
 power, sacrificing a little accuracy along the way. What could make this better in the future, 
 is being able to select who goes up for set-pieces (EG Vidic and Ferdinand for Man Utd) and how 
 they make their runs, as at the moment it seems too much of a "lump it into the mixer" situation. 
 Perhaps one for next year.
  
  Volleys and headers are fantastic and have definitely been worked on. As a player you can spend 
 ages in the Arena with Rooney flicking the ball up, and belting a dipping volley from 25 yards 
 out. The physics feel real, you feel in control of what happens. Its a very nice touch. Sadly, 
 you wont score many of these in a game - but hey, how often do you see them scored in real life?
 
  
  Now moving onto the game modes.
  
  Manager Mode
  Manager Mode is pretty much the same as before. Refined in the sense that player salaries are a 
 little more realistic, but still carrying some really annoying bugs. EA still haven't fixed the 
 time of day glitch, which means every one of your 38 premiership games is played in sunshine at 
 3pm. Very annoying. Also, you will find players on the transfer market unrealistically, like Petr 
 Cech and Cesc Fabregas - available for less than 12 million. Be wary when you buy them too - as 
 you cant change their number. When buying CF for Man Utd, he was handed the number 2 shirt - which 
 stuck for the rest of his career. All in all, I am very disappointed with Manager Mode, which looks 
 like it has been totally overlooked by EA.
  
  
  Be A Pro Seasons
  Fantastic mode, and definitely a benchmark for future EA games. Unlike manager mode, this alters 
 game times, weather - and gets stadiums correct for events (bar playing for the reserves - Man 
 Utd don't play at Old Trafford for reserve games) . My gripe with this is that the mode should be 
 for more than four seasons, and should involve more personal attributes. For example a contract 
 offer from the team would be nice instead of just saying "who would you like to play for". Also, 
 it would be nice to expand the mode a bit, involve controversy and career changing decisions that 
 need to be made, rather than just games in and out all of the time. Also, involve the real tournament 
 names like World Cup and Euro Cup - not just "international tournament". I think this mode is a 
 good idea in principle and plays okay, but a lot of people will probs get bored of it after a season 
 or two. My advice to EA - expand this mode MAJORLY next year and give players a personal life, 
 and more realism.
  
  10 v 10 online
  A crazy mode, which in principle is a great idea - but sadly is ruined by people who just play 
 the game childishly. If you are lucky enough to find 19 people who stick to positions, then you 
 will witness an amazing mode - but sadly its littered with 10 year old pre-adolescents who chase 
 the ball in fives, and all want to score - so get in eachothers way. Also annoys me how people 
 can pick "Any" - isn't the purpose of this mode to pick one player, not all of them?
  
  Fifa 09 Clubs
  Same as above - but a bit more feedback on this one. The way its set up just isn't 
 nice in my eyes. People should play certain positions EG striker or midfielder or defender, and 
 be in a pool. Then, people who manage a select number of teams (say 150 teams made by EA) should 
 select these players and play them accordingly. At the moment, you can make a team with a bunch 
 of mates, and just play randomly. It just doesn't work well enough for my liking.
  
  Thats game modes and game play out of the way, now with teams. I'm very happy with the number of 
 leagues and am as impressed as anyone as to how many teams are in the game, however - a couple 
 of gripes. Surely nowadays, the top 100 international teams could be put onto the game? I would 
 gladly sacrifice say the Mexican league in order to get more national teams on there. And WHEN 
 will Holland be sorted out, they are one of the most coveted teams in the world! Also, I would 
 like to have the option to pick my OWN World Best Eleven, instead of the one already on there, 
 along with the option to create teams myself. Its a simple enough task to include, one which PES 
 nails every year. 
  
  The create a player mode is also ok, but could be perfected by adding Live Vision camera functionality. 
 Imagine your face in Fifa - would be amazing would it not? Also - you should be allowed to edit 
 player looks like hairstyles. Rooney just got his hair shaved off today - yet on the game this 
 will not reflect, not even in updates.
  
  
  Adidas Live Season
  Great idea, love how it works (even though some ratings are outrageous to say the least!!! Ronaldo 
 is already on 95 and has done next to nothing this season) - but 15 for just the major leagues 
 for one season? Sorry EA - but thats penny pinching in my eyes!! I wont be forking out for it!!
 
  
  
  CONCLUSION
  Its the best football game out on the market, but it still has its flaws. If you can get past them, 
 you will love this game
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Robtats94
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 11, 2008 8:26 am PT
Review:  I have been playing the fifa sports series for about 8 years, and this has to be the best in the 
 series.
  My favourite new addition to this series is the new Be A Pro : Season. Being able to join any club 
 of choice with a created player and take them to the top makes the game feel realistic in more 
 ways than 1. The new player improvement is very realistic and tells you when you are playing well.
 
  I also like the new adidas live season which makes the players on your team play like they would 
 in real life.
  
  Overall this game is a real joy to play on and is very addictive. I found myself on be a pro season 
 for hours on end with Carlisle Utd.
  
  
 
  I am only writing this to waste space and get this review up to 800 letters hahahahah..................... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Asian-Hawk
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 11, 2008 6:31 am PT
Review:  Having grown up being a huge pro evo and I. S. S. (on the snes baby!) fan and usually avoiding fifa 
 like AIDS, cancer and man-flu rolled into one, what is it exactly thats made me change my mind 
 and decide that Fifa 09 is by far and away the the best Footie game on the planet?
  
  Well it all started when pro evo 6 was released which turned out to be the beggining of the end 
 for me. Pes 6 was average at best but so too was fifa 07 but then pes 08 came out and that was 
 even worse where as fifa 08 was actually good and ended up being the first fifa game I bought since 
 fifa 99!
  
  And then........... pes 09 demo......... pure gash!
  
  Which left me with fifa 09 which is.......... pure gold!
  
  so from now on pro evo will be avoided 
 like AIDS, cancer and Man-flu rolled into one!
  
  Anyway im gonna break this review down into pros and cons and i think i will start with the cons 
 as i like to get the bad out the way.
  
  CONS
  
  Keepers are more massimo Taibi than Pepe Reina (Liverpool fan here!)
  
  Refs are card happy! 
 Dishing out yellow and red cards left right and centre
  
  Like all online games you are gonna get idiots that cheat, lag, quit, talk crap down the mic etc 
 etc and fifa is no exception although that it more down to people rather than the game offering 
 a poor online experiance.
  
  Commentating gets rather annoying especially andy gray!
  
  
  PROS
  
  Licensed teams, kits, players, stadiums etc are spot on!
  
  Graphics are good.
 
  
  Online is spot on as long as your not playing a cheating numpty. Playing against your mates online 
 is almost always perfect.
  
  10v10 is fantastic if not a little messy but that just adds to the fun!
  
  Be a pro mode is 
 brilliant!
  
  Game isnt too quick and arcady but isnt frustatingly slow either. The pace is just right.
  
 
  Playing against the COM on legendary is pretty challenging.
  
  Playing against your mates and scoring a beauty is still amazingly satisfying
  
  
  
  
 
  Basicly the game is a hoot and i would recomend it to everyone thats into football as its the 
 best footie game out their.
  
  
  it used to be "fifa for show, pes for a pro"
  
  now its "fifa for show and for a pro" oh and "pes is pish poor"
  
  
  
  
  Ahmad Kholwadia 
 a. k. a. Asian-Hawk
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Panakas
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 10, 2008 11:55 am PT
Review:  I can't believe am saying this but EA really made this game even better! I thought Fifa 2008 was 
 great and that Euro 2008 was even better... But after i played Fifa2009 i cant go back playing those 
 games! THIS IS SUPERB!
  Better Graphics-Animations.
  Much better player movements! You can now dribble with only the control stick!
  The players make 
 many kind of passes and shoots!
  The Be A Pro Mode is a great addition...
  You create a soccer player or choose one...
  You play in Liverpools 2nd team for example, and 
 by the way you play you will get your chance to be in the first team! At the end of the season teams 
 want to sign you from all over the world!!!
  The ref and linesmen are fantastic!
  You may hit the ref when you run or the ball hits the ref and changes direction! THIS MAKES THIS 
 GAME EVEN BETTER! Its like in real life!
  The fans? The best soccer fans I've ever seen.
  The jump when they sing! The hold the scarf of there team! Thet react on goals like mad and many 
 other!
  I really think EA made another step forword!
  I hope they improve it even more next year!
  Hope this helps! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: UUUMMM184
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 8, 2008 3:35 am PT
Review:  FIFA 09 returns to the pitch full of swagger, and it does its very best to deliver on EA Sport's 
 promise of creating the definitive football title. An exacting game on the pitch and an overwhelmingly 
 comprehensive one off of it, it's still got a number of minor niggles that blight the play. But 
 when the package is so vast and offers so much, it's hard not to be impressed. Is it better than 
 PES? It's certainly different, and which game you go for this season ultimately depends on what 
 you want from your annual dose of football.
  
  Gameplay: So exactingly realistic it can be off-putting and, not without a few gripes, it's still 
 the best FIFA yet.
  
  Graphics: Hardly an improvement, but still a step ahead of the opposition.
  
  Sound: The commentary 
 and crowd noises conspire together to create an authentic experience.
  
  Value: The commentary and crowd noises conspire together to create an authentic experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jpw2
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 6, 2008 4:48 pm PT
Review:  Well last year EA's fifa series hit new heights with fifa 08, making fifa arguably the best footie 
 series on the market.
  
  While the PES series has been getting worse every year and hasnt been changing anything the fifa 
 series has had its chance to take the torch as the best footie series and they have done it with 
 their latest installment fifa 09.
  
  Im an all round football fan and I play both Fifa and PES im not a fanboy of either of the two 
 series' I like them both. I usually get both games every year.
  
  While 08 last year was probably the best fifa game ever to come out it still had many things that 
 needed addressing including: sloppy AI, weird looking players with plastic looking bodies etc I 
 think we all know what was frustrating about that game right?
  
  Well EA had the chance with 09 to fix those things and practically make the game what seems nearly 
 perfect. Improvements this year include: better graphpics and player design they have gotten rid 
 of the plasticy look, a much greater AI and ball contol system an improved shooting system and there 
 is also refs and linesmen visible on the pitch!!
  
  The gameplay this time round is nearly perfect it has lovely slick passing and movement, players 
 make clever runs into space and ask for the ball, they react to things for example if a player got 
 sent tumbling for the ground and no foul was given hed raise his arms in the air as if to say wheres 
 my freekick?. The AI this year I would say is on par with PES'S because I think thats where PES 
 is strong and I think EA have implemented it into their game well this year.
  
  The new game has quite a steep learning curve, this is no easy game, it plays a realistic game 
 of football you have to build up and orchestrate your attack to try and find that opening for your 
 shot and at first youl have a hard time doing it the defences in this game arent slacks! this isnt 
 arcady like PES were you could split the opponents defence in about 2 passes, this game literally 
 simulates a real fotball match and thats what makes it so great, so if you don't like realism in 
 your football games I suggest you avoid this one and go for PES. 
  
  Thers not much more I can say but fifa 09 is an incredible game and plays the most realistic game 
 of football youl ever find in a video game until fifa 2010 maybe.
  
  PES continues to go down hill and not change anything and that game just feels dated and is soo 
 arcady now, they need to start from scratch and give us something fresh, im really dissapointed 
 for the PES series and I wont be buying PES this year. Fifa is the best footie series out there 
 now and PES has alot of work to do. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: burgeg
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 6, 2008 2:49 pm PT
Review:  I've been with the Fifa series for as long as I can remember and I adore football games. Ever since 
 Italia 90 for the Sega Megadrive I cant get enough football games. However over the years I found 
 the Fifa series growing a little stale. That was until last years Fifa 08. It was a very realistic 
 game of football but it was also a fun one. However it did suffer from a handful of problems that 
 really hampered my enjoyment of the game. Alot of the time the game felt very cheap with the cpu 
 intercepting your passes all the time and things like that. Also the be a pro mode in 08 was disappointing.
 
  
  Thankfully the issues of 08 have been fixed. Fifa 09 has more content than 08 and also has much 
 better gameplay. It all just seems more refined and better overall. The be a pro mode has been 
 fleshed out into a full season and it is absolutely amazing. You play as a reserve player for your 
 club and build up into the first team and play for your country. This is very entertaining, much 
 more so than the manager mode imo. The adidas live season is also pretty great as it updates the 
 teams very well. For example Liverpool are a 4 and a half star team in the game normally, but when 
 you use adidas live season Liverpool go up to 5 stars based on their current form (please note this 
 was true when I was writing this review) . 
  
  The online is a love it/hate it thing. You'll love ordinary matches online and you'll love the 
 10 v 10 matches. You'll hate the amount of quitters online. Countless times I've had players quit 
 on me because they're losing. It's especially annoying when you get the winner 2 mins from the 
 end and they quit. Come on, there's no need for this. I've lost 5-0 online and still finish the 
 game to the end. Also its a bit annoying that everyone online picks Man U. Its ok it its because 
 they support man u, but countless times you see people changing from the team they support to Man 
 U because they are one of the best if not the best team in the game. Man U players can outpace 
 defenders on other teams which makes them a pain to deal with sometimes. 
  
  Now for the 10 v 10 online play. It's absolutely fantastic....... when it works. The very first 
 10 v 10 game I played was awesome. It was Liverpool v Chelsea and I was Gerrard. It was an awesome 
 game and it felt so good when I got the winning goal. Unfortunately I've found its rare that 10 
 v 10 matches actually finish to the end. Dont know if this is a problem with the EA servers or 
 something but it often says the connection with the opponent has been lost and the game ends. I 
 only started playing bap online today so maybe its just a problem today. Also alot of the time 
 not enough players join a be a pro online game and it often ends up just being 2 v 2 or 3v 3. I'm 
 sure these issues will be fixed though when bap mode becomes more popular. When you get 10 v 10 
 to work properly its fantastic and I cant see it ever gettting old.
  
  You can also create your own club to take online. You can invite friends or just people you see 
 online into your club and go into 10 v 10 matches or leagues online with your club. I haven't created 
 my own club yet but I will do soon and I'm sure it works just as well as it sounds.
  
  Fifa 09 is the best football game made to date. Its a realistic game but not to the extent that 
 its not fun to play. It keeps alot of the same gameplay from Fifa 08 but improves upon it enough 
 to make it a worthy purchase. You've got so much content here and loads to keep you interested. 
 Its really great to be able to play a normal game of football or be a pro. If you get bored of 
 one then just try another game mode. There's also plenty of achievements to go for and they're 
 much better than the ones in 08.
  
  The gameplay is great, the graphics are great, the detail is great, the amount of content and game 
 modes is great, the online is great when everything works and its a very entertaining game to play. 
 If you're a football fan in the slightest then Fifa 09 is a must buy. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: fear_at_arms
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 6, 2008 3:16 am PT
Review:  this game is a outstanding game it has a wide range of leauges from england to the portugese clubs 
 there is alot fifa 09 has to offer for example the "be a pro season" ware you are 1 person in a 
 four year well season and if you getter better and better you become the starting 11 for your country. 
 the game play has changed alot for example the determination of a player wizzing threw the deffence. 
 the players also have changed and EA have put alot of effort trying to make the players look like 
 them and they do. they move the same way as they do (ranaldo free kick position) the achivments 
 also are fun fifa 08 achivments were dull and bording like the chalanges but 09 has changed alot 
 its more do then dont like score a bysicle kick it is alot of fun and so enjoyable
  
  fifa 09 is a must buy game and i cannot find anything wrong with it exempt the goalkeeper still 
 seams a bit slow (9.5) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pek4ever
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 5, 2008 6:35 am PT
Review:  Without going into a full on review i just want to say a thing about the Be a Pro mode.
  
  WHY OH WHY didn't they flesh it out with more content? 
  
  A) Training
  B) An agent trying 
 to progress your career.
  C) Media influences
  D) Being substituted
  E) Being played out of position to suit a new tactic
  
  
  Instead it simply provides a far 
 to linear gaming experience. All you do is play games and progress your stats. By adding training 
 that you have to attend you could progress your stats in a more realistic matter.
  
  IF ANY OF YOU READERS HAVE PLAYED THE NEW STAR SOCCER SERIES THEN YOU WILL SEE HOW YOU COULD HAVE 
 PROGRESSED THROUGH TRAINING.
  
  But please don't get me wrong, its a good experience, but it could have been very very good! EA 
 should look at other "Be a Pro" type games like New Star Soccer for inspiration for how to make 
 Be A Pro truly legendary! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tarsal7
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 5, 2008 6:12 am PT
Review:  This is real football, no difference between watching a real game of EPL and playing a match on 
 FIFA 09. Congratulations EA on this new FIFA installment, you nailed it guys, I dont know what 
 to expect in FIFA 2010, its sure gonna be better, but please take care of Manager Mode, too many 
 missing tweaks.
  Fatigue is great this time, and with the addition of Adidas Live Season, Fifa 09 rocks.
  I played 
 PES 09 Demo and there is a huge gap between both, Konami are below par compared to this years FIFA 
 , and this makes more competition between both titles, after a long dominance of PES.
  Lifespan is very very long, i asure you ... with too many modes to choose from including Be A Pro 
 Seasons which now gives you a chance to play a 4 season mode as a Pro ... great, and of course 
 Manager mode and other Leagues and Tournaments, wish Adidas Live season was implimented in Manager 
 Mode and other tournaments.
  Multiplayer is huge and impressive, with 10 Vs 10 killer mode.
  I think FIFA 09 should receive 
 the best Sports Video Game of the Year Award, or even , Best Video Game of the Year Award.
  HAIL EA     HAIL EA ... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Makaatsu
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 3, 2008 5:50 am PT
Review:  Let me begin by saying i am a massive fan of the Pro Evolution Soccer series. I played the game 
 way back when it was International Superstar Soccer. I have played football games for as long as 
 i have played games which is over 25 years. From the days of Kick Off on the Amiga all the way 
 through to er Mario Super Charged Soccer! In short i love football. I go to watch it every weekend 
 and play in a sunday league. I know what im talking about.
  
  I have to be brutally honest here i used to hate the Fifa series. Up until 08 i considered it anything 
 but a replication of football. More of a joke then anything.
  I would play PES until the sun rises. But after 4&5 the game started to go downhill. Each new year 
 would be worse then before. It is this downward trend of the PES series that made me re-look at 
 Fifa 08. Like before ISS i played Fifa but i left the series as it had become an arcade game based 
 on scoring as many goals as you can without any skill, it was EA releasing the same game every 
 year. Then came along PES 4&5 and it re-invented football. It was more realistic then anything 
 i had played before and like most i was hooked.
  
  But roll on over 5 years and nothing Konami have produced since has touched those heights. As the 
 years rolled by it looked like the football games on the market for this generation were destined 
 to be mediocore at best. Both Fifa and PES had there time in the sun. They had stopped compeating 
 and had been out just for the money. The poor reviews and opinions were deserved.
  
  But in 2008 we had a change in one of the franchises. EA went back to the drawing board which they 
 had to do. They came back with a new vision of football for this generation. They wanted to create 
 a game that wasen't a run at full pelt past everyone without any tackles game, they didn't want 
 a game where you can score the same goal over and over. They wanted a game that was more like modern 
 football, the main sport of the world.
  So they came up with 2008. A new game that was excellent but had little annoyances that held it 
 back from being great. Little things that to the normal people who don't follow football wouldn't 
 care but to those who do they were some mortal sins. Such as having the FA Cup final played not 
 at Wembley. These little things brought the game down a bit.
  
  So we now go a year and we have the new 2009 games.
  
  Fifa 2009 is the game true football 
 fans have been waiting for. If it had the tital Metal Gear Solid it would get a 10/10 score, if 
 it was Half Life 2 it would get a 10/10 score etc.. But it isn't, it is Fifa. A sports game. A 
 annual sports game. Naturally reviews for these types of games don't tend to be "amazing", maybe 
 the reviewers lack knowledge of the sport they are reviewing? But in this instance Fifa 09 deserves 
 at minimum a 9/10 score. Reason for this is it is the work of 4 years all rolled into one. They 
 took away their old game and changed it for the better. Rather then do what Konami have done they 
 actually listened to the fans of football. They took note of our concerns and they changed it. 
 That has to be a first!
  
  Fifa 09 is a hard hard game. It is not a game you will pick up and play and be as good as Pele 
 on your first try. This isn't a care bears game people. It has a very steep learning curve but 
 one that mirrors real football. Unlike PES it isnt about the action in the final third. It is about 
 everything on the pitch. How you move from your goalie up to your strikers. It isn't a simple 2 
 button presses and your in the opponents 16 yard box ready to shoot. That is PES, that is not realistic. 
 In 09 you have to take your time with the ball, but your not given time by the opponent, they hustle 
 and jostle you trying to get the ball off you. You are under pressure and you need to make a choice. 
 Do you pass the ball back to a team mate, or try and be clever and see if you can get a through 
 ball? Or because you have thought about it so much you actually balloon it and it ends up going 
 out.
  
  And this is what makes Fifa 09 the best football game on the planet. You. You are in control of 
 everything. The direction of the ball, the pass weight, the shot angles etc.. you have so much 
 to take into account you start to understand the real game a bit more. You realise football is 
 hard. If it was easy you and i would be out there playing for Chelsea/Barcelona etc.. were not 
 we are inside playing it on our tv's. But this is as close as we will get to being in those teams!
 
  
  Which brings me onto one of the the new features for 2009. Be a Pro Seasons. Like last year BE 
 A Pro is back. This time it has been given a revamp. You now can play this mode as a career. You 
 create yourself in create a player. The customisation is emense and quite spookily i made my char 
 very life like. Then after you have done this you are awarded experience points. With these points 
 you use them to make your player better. You have attributes which you must increase if you want 
 to get better.
  As you start the game you are a nobody for your club. You have to play in reserve games and do 
 well in those before you might get picked for the first team. In these games you are assigned targets. 
 If you complete these targets you are given bonus experience points which again you spend on increasing 
 your talents. As you progree you might start getting noticed by bigger teams, they might come in 
 for a transfer for you! Then you might get called up to the national team and could end up playing 
 in the world cup!
  This mode is not just single player oh no. You can play it with 3 other friends which just makes 
 it even more fun.
  
  Which then brings us to another new addition. Multi-player squads. In 2009 you can now play Be 
 a Pro 10 vs 10. That is right, every single outfield player is a human controlled player. You can 
 do like last year and just join a game, or you can do something new. Create a club! This club is 
 a landmark for video games. It is sports version of a clan or a guild. In this club you can hire 
 your friends or even ask people you have seen play a few times to join. With this club you can 
 enter leagues/cups and so on. It takes playing football to a whole new level.
  
  There are many more new features in Fifa 09 but those are some of the main ones.
  
  When you 
 play this game then play Pro Evolution Soccer 2009 you can't help but feel angry at Konami. They 
 have ruined what was once a great franchise and turned it into a joke. There is now no longer a 
 "what is better" debate anymore. Fifa now blows PES out of the water in every single area. EA have 
 done what they promised and that was to create the most realisitc but fun football game ever created. 
 Where as Konami have released what they released last year, just with a 9 instead of a 8 in the 
 name title. 
  
  Fifa 09 is the best football game i have ever played, and i have played them all. As i mentioned 
 average reviewers will give the game probably an 8/10 rating but that is because they don't play 
 football games, they don't know the past. They don't know the rivarly through the ages and they 
 don't know how the football minded think or what they want.
  This game is a close 10 because it gets everything right. It is a game about skill, patience, lethalness, 
 frustration when you make a human error, jubilation when a move works etc.. the beautiful game 
 just got more beautiful! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: superiorNilly
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 3, 2008 5:44 am PT
Review:  Normally the only football game I look forward to each year is Pro evolution soccer, this year 
 after reading and hearing about all the good reviews of Fifa 09, I decided to sell some of my old 
 games for some money and take a chance with Fifa. 
  The first thing I noticed when playing is how good the game feels, this was just from playing 2 
 minutes of the arena. The games pacing is faster, the players feel lighter and you can turn quicker.
 
  For me the greatest improvement for the Fifa franchise is that it feels as accessible as Pes. 
 You feel like you are controlling the player at every moment. It looks like EA have got the formula 
 rite for the perfect football game. 
  There is so much stuff I want to say in this review but I simply don't have the time. The one thing 
 I will say though is that game deserves a chance, so pick it up. You will not regret. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: huntercal
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 2, 2008 7:24 am PT
Review:  Each year there seems to be this argument in football gamer circles what is the better franchise. 
 Pro Evo or FIFA. From where I am standing FIFA has always had the wood over the Konami fanchise 
 as it always just seemed to be more fun, plain and simple. Autheniticity is nothing in a game if 
 you are not complete in your goal and a total void of actual licenced players, kits and stadiums 
 is a rather big gapping hole from Pro Evo. But lately I feel that FIFA has been passing Pro Evo 
 in almost every way. FIFA 09 is the start of this supremacy.
  
  Even Pro Evo gamers will tell you that FIFA is now competing with them in the quality of the football 
 in game, it is now not just a flashy, better looking football game, it also has substance. This 
 is largely due to the fact that EA Sports are making improvements every year while Pro Evo seem 
 to subscribe to the philosophy of "if it aint broke, dont fix it".
  
  But enough of my FIFA propeganda and move onto the game itself. In the visual department it doesn't 
 differ too much from 08, where it really hits its stride is the improved physics and AI in the 
 game. The body to body tussles seem more authentic as well as the slide tackles for that matter 
 that give the franchise a much needed improvement in the defensive department. This feels very 
 similar to 08 in the standard game set up but feels vastly different in the Be A Pro Mode which 
 is without a doubt the biggest improvement in 09. 
  
  Be A Pro now can be used in a season set up where you take a control of your favourite player or 
 one you have created for 4 years. Over this team you can compete in your league as well as national 
 teams, moving up from a reserve player to captain of both club and country. You can also move to 
 higher clubs and enhance your player's reputation in the world. This is probably the most enjoyable 
 mode in the whole game and brings the customization of the franchise to a whole new level. I decided 
 to play as Per Ciljan Skjelbred from Rosenberg and in a few short seasons I had made him Captain 
 of Norway as well as Captain of Real Madrid. To see you develop one of the world's most promising 
 young players into a world champion is more satisfying than I could have hoped for. The game is 
 worth the purchase purely on this mode alone, not to mention the online 10 v 10 games that show 
 some real promise.
  
  Other than this mode all I can say is if you are a fan of the franchise buy it, all the modes are 
 still their to keep you entertained. That said if you are a fan you probably bought it already 
 and just wanted to read this to see what others think. For those who are unsure of which franchise 
 to buy there is no better time to get into FIFA as it now has a great and deep gameplay as well 
 as the polish that it has always had. For Pro Evo fans I assume you would have stopped reading 
 about a paragraph ago, professed I don't have a clue and now wait for the next Pro Evo title. Well 
 I say to you, as a stop gap while waiting for Pro Evo, it wouldn't kill you to hire this one out 
 and admit it is a quality football game that will entertain. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
