-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: FIFA 07 Soccer
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/xbox360/sports/fifasoccer07/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Online matches are almost always lag-free.
 manager mode is as engaging as ever.
 much improved FIFA Lounge mode for up to 20 players.
 challenging achievements.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Commentary is repetitive and often inaccurate.
 CPU players' behavior is a little too predictable.
 lacks many of the teams found in other versions.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov  9, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.1
Critic Score: 7.4, 46 Review (s)
User Score: 8.0, 1,773 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: EA Sports
Genre: Soccer Sim
Date: Oct 31, 2006
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
FIFA 07 is the best Xbox 360 game in the series to date, boasting plenty of options for solo and 
 social players alike. 

  If you're an Xbox-360-owning fan of the FIFA series, you've no doubt been hotly anticipating the 
 arrival of FIFA 07. Not only because the Xbox 360 version shipped to stores almost a month after 
 other versions, but also because FIFA 07 is purportedly the first soccer game that EA Sports has 
 developed from the ground up for Microsoft's console. The good news is that FIFA 07 is undoubtedly 
 the best Xbox 360 game in the series to date. The bad news is that, in some ways, it's still inferior 
 to its PlayStation 2 and Xbox counterparts.  

          The emphasis in FIFA 07 is on passing rather than beating opponents with skill moves and 
 tricks.     

  After loading FIFA 07 for the first time, you'll be prompted to select your favorite team from 
 the 117 clubs and 37 international sides in the game. Then, if you wish, you can jump straight 
 into a match against one of your chosen team's rivals or another player simply by clicking on the 
 kick-off option. Other gameplay options -- which we'll talk about in more detail shortly -- include 
 online play, manager mode, challenge mode, and the FIFA lounge. The lack of any customizable league 
 or tournament options is a little disappointing, but the FIFA lounge mode is such a great way to 
 play with friends that they'd likely be redundant anyway. Regardless of which mode you opt for, 
 you'll find that FIFA 07 plays quite differently from recent games in the series, including those 
 that bear the same title on other platforms. Unfortunately, not all of the new features and changes 
 have been made for the better. There's certainly no question, however, that EA Canada's latest 
 offering plays an enjoyable game of soccer.  

  As was the case in other versions of FIFA 07, one of the first things you'll notice when playing 
 the Xbox 360 game is that the players move more convincingly than those in previous games. The 
 excellent player animation can take some of the credit for that, but what really affects the gameplay 
 is the fact that players now accelerate and decelerate realistically. When players are running 
 with the ball at full speed, it's now much more difficult for them to turn sharply without losing 
 possession. By the same token, defending players charging in for tackles will have a harder time 
 tracking opponents who are doing anything other than simply running in a straight line. The upshot 
 of the more realistic player movement is a greater emphasis on passing the ball. And combined with 
 FIFA 07's very limited arsenal of skill moves, this certainly isn't a bad thing.  

  Retaining possession of the ball against skilled opposition can be quite challenging because making 
 tackles in FIFA 07 isn't very difficult and the CPU-controlled players on your team don't always 
 seem too concerned about making intelligent off-the-ball moves. It's very satisfying to manually 
 trigger another player's surging forward run then pick him out with a perfectly-placed through 
 pass. FIFA 07, however, walks a fine line between giving you plenty of opportunities to do that 
 and just surrounding you with teammates who do very little unless you tell them what to do. However, 
 the most frustrating thing about the guys on your team is the way that they refuse to move toward 
 a ball that's been passed to them. Regardless of whether or not an opposing player is well placed 
 for an interception, they prefer to stand there and wait for the ball to reach them. This problem 
 isn't unique to FIFA 07 by any means. However, it's more noticeable here than in other versions 
 of the game and certainly has the potential to cause frustration.  

  The shots that fly off into the crowd after you've worked really hard to create a chance on goal 
 for your team is even more frustrating. In FIFA 07, you'll be seeing a lot of these horribly wayward 
 shots. This is not because there's anything wrong with the game's shooting system but quite the 
 opposite. When you take a shot, its accuracy and pace will be determined by the skills of the player 
 you're using. This includes his balance, body-shape, and to what degree he has the ball under control 
 at the time. Bicycle kicks on the end of crossed balls are the surprisingly frequent exception 
 to this rule. For the most part, however, shots have a far greater success rate if your player 
 has the ball under control and takes a moment to beat the goalkeeper with the position of his shot 
 rather than the power of it. Chip shots that are performed by using the modifier button are an 
 especially satisfying way to beat keepers who rush off their lines. The finesse shot modifier (which 
 we've found to be far more useful in this game than in other versions of FIFA 07) also makes your 
 attempts on goal more accurate but less powerful. Shots that are off target in FIFA 07, then, are 
 frustrating in a good way because they're realistic. And no matter how much you curse about it 
 when playing online, they're your fault. It's true that many of the most spectacular goals in FIFA 
 07 are scored without using either of the modifier buttons, but they're rarely the most satisfying 
 ones.  

          Blink -- and you might miss the only replay of the best goal you've ever scored.     

 
  One of the most enjoyable moments in any soccer game comes right after you score a goal. This 
 is especially true when you're playing against a friend or a rival team. The commentators get excited, 
 the crowd roars, and you get to relive the whole thing in slow motion while manually controlling 
 the camera. However, this isn't always the case in FIFA 07. The commentary from ITV's Clive Tyldesley 
 and Sky Sports' Andy Gray isn't always delivered in a timely fashion. Either the noise from the 
 crowd cuts out or becomes occasionally muffled. And you only get one brief replay of each goal, 
 which is often delivered from a somewhat awkward camera angle. The fact that these aspects of the 
 game feel rushed or unfinished is made more disappointing by the fact that they were all handled 
 so well in other versions of FIFA 07. The commentary on the Xbox 360 can become especially grating 
 after a while. Although it's well delivered and contains some genuinely interesting tidbits of 
 team-specific trivia, there are times when the play-by-play talk is accurate only slightly more 
 often than a stopped clock.  

  Like most (if not all) sports games, FIFA 07 is best played against human opposition. The four 
 difficulty levels that are available for matches against the CPU offer a decent challenge. The 
 game's artificial intelligence, however, becomes quite predictable after you spend a lot of time 
 with it and comes with a few odd quirks. We came across one of these quirks the first time we played 
 a match against the CPU. With about five minutes of the match left, we were really impressed when 
 our opponent decided to waste some time by making a late substitution. At the time, we were a goal 
 down. The commentary team quite shrewdly pointed out what the other team was up to, presumably 
 experiencing a moment of clarity. But we were less impressed when we realized that CPU-controlled 
 teams  always  make substitutions within the last 10 minutes of a game, regardless of the score 
 line or anything else. It's mildly irritating only because it's so predictable. It also doesn't 
 help that the players coming onto the field have already managed to accumulate 80-minutes worth 
 of mud on their uniforms while sitting on the bench.     

   

  Although you'll rarely need to use them, the same is true of your own substitutes. Players in FIFA 
 07 have indicators for both short-term and long-term fatigue. Although the former does a good job 
 of letting you know how long a player can sprint for, you'll almost never have to concern yourself 
 with the latter (which replenishes a bit at half time) . All of the players that we've encountered 
 in FIFA 07 have more than enough stamina to get them through even the most fiercely contested of 
 matches. When playing in manager mode, none of our players' energy levels from one game to the 
 next ever gave us any reason to alter our starting 11.  

          The manager mode lets you tinker with lineups and formations between matches, but your 
 performance on the field is all that really matters.     

  At first glance, FIFA 07's manager mode appears to be the same as that found in other versions 
 of the game. Although your objectives to run a successful team and keep your job are the same, 
 some of the mode's features are quite different. For example, you have more tools at your disposal 
 for customizing formations and comparing player performances on the Xbox 360. A more interactive 
 player growth system also lets you spend experience points on attributes and traits for your improving 
 players. On the flip side, however, the management decisions that you're tasked with making via 
 e-mail from your club's board of directors are less interesting and often have an obviously correct 
 response. This game's manager mode also lacks the visual sim mode. In this mode, you could simulate 
 matches that you didn't want to play, but you still retained the option to jump into the match 
 at any time. Admittedly, the visual sim mode is no great loss. But the fact that you could assume 
 control of an in-progress match if things were going badly is definitely preferable to the Xbox 
 360 game's sim option. The option on the Xbox 360 simply presents you with a final score screen 
 and a bunch of match statistics about five seconds after you select the option. FIFA 07's manager 
 mode is undoubtedly one of the most engaging features of the game, but it's not nearly deep enough 
 to be enjoyable without playing matches yourself.  

  When you're playing solo and don't feel like being a manager, one of FIFA 07's most improved features 
 this year is its challenge mode. There are no fewer than 85 different challenges that are waiting 
 to be unlocked and completed. The objectives that you'll be tasked with are also far more interesting 
 than simply winning a game by a certain number of goals or earning a victory in a scenario where 
 defeat seems inevitable. Scoring with a late substitute, maintaining a certain possession percentage, 
 scoring with a number of different players in a match, and making it through a victorious 90 minutes 
 without a single offside decision going against you are all examples of the challenges you'll be 
 facing. They also make for some interesting and varied gameplay. It's unfortunate that the game's 
 achievement points aren't linked to the challenge mode in any way, but the 11 achievements up for 
 grabs are much more challenging than those in previous games.  

  If you're skilled enough to beat even half of the challenges in FIFA 07, you should have no problem 
 holding your own when you play online. If you're fussy about playing against certain players, different 
 lobbies are arranged by player skill level. The quick match option also does a great job of pairing 
 you up with a random opponent in a speedy fashion. New for this game is an online cooperative mode, 
 in which you and a friend can compete against two other players while sitting in front of the same 
 console. The online play in FIFA 07 is undoubtedly the best that the series has ever seen because 
 it all but eradicates the frustrating lag issues, as well as the unwieldy menus and lobbies that 
 have plagued previous games. Although only ranked matches will contribute to them, there are also 
 plenty of leaderboards where you can compare your statistics against those of other online players. 

  If you've played recent FIFA offerings on the PlayStation 2 or the Xbox 360, you should be familiar 
 with the FIFA lounge mode. This mode lets you and a group of up to 19 (yes, 19) of your friends 
 play with each other across multiple gaming sessions and keep track of your results in a league 
 table. Furthermore, you'll collect power-ups (or opponent power-downs) known as "cheap shots" that 
 can be used to level the playing field before a subsequent match. After each match, you'll earn 
 lounge points that are based on different aspects of your performance. If your team loses, you'll 
 generally be awarded a better cheap shot for subsequent use than your opponent. Some cheap shots 
 simply affect the number of lounge points you can earn with multipliers and such, while others 
 can really influence a match by forcing your opponent to play with only nine men. The cheap shots 
 are more varied and interesting than those in previous games. Although you can play up to three 
 per match, you'll never earn more than one at a time.  

          Why something that resembles the FIFA Lounge mode hasn't been implemented in other EA Sports 
 titles is a mystery.     

  FIFA 07's lounge mode is every bit as enjoyable as those that have appeared in previous versions. 
 The fact that up to 20 players are now supported instead of just eight players is also great. The 
 only strange thing is that rather than letting each of you enter your name, you have to choose 
 an icon to represent yourself. The icons are an odd mixture to say the least. And FIFA 07 might 
 well be the first soccer game to pit a blue squirrel against an orange elephant, while an orange 
 snowflake and a blue anchor patiently wait their turn. Like everything else in FIFA 07, the lounge 
 mode menus are easy on the eyes, especially if you're lucky enough to play on a high-definition 
 screen. Those of you with regular television sets will find that some of the in-game text borders 
 on illegible. The action on the field and the huge stadiums that you play in, however, will still 
 look very impressive.  

  While it's not the giant leap forward for the FIFA series that you might have been hoping for, 
 the Xbox 360 version of FIFA 07 certainly isn't a difficult game to recommend. It introduces a 
 number of new features and improvements to what was already a great formula. Although it does away 
 with some stuff that you might normally take for granted, the end product doesn't disappoint.  
    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (161 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: rezpatriot
Rating: 6.5
Date: Feb 11, 2009 8:51 am PT
Review:  I can say I have just played the worst match in this game, and really feel secure in pointing out 
 some irregular problems with the control and gameplay of this much appreciated hit game.
  
  I like EA FIFA games mainly because it is FIFA and because it is like properly registered by almost 
 all the clubs.
  
  The problem is EA has to be dropped as FIFAs representative, because year after year their games 
 get horribly worse. I mean not just the sports games either, all games EA publish are horribly 
 burnt out in terms of gameplay. I would like ubisoft or codemasters to lead the next FIFA 2010 
 and EA loose all rights to the game.
  
  EA has to stick with what it is doing, it so rightly know the customer and has added Managements 
 games to nearly every game, but combining this with actual map play has got to be the worst decision 
 ever in computer games. I think most American Football fans would agree that EA f**ked that up 
 too.
  
  EA next time you make a game, strip it bare and make a good multiplayer league system and a great 
 match to play, with more moves ( I mean a hell of a lot of more moves, not just a Ronaldo step 
 over, I think the common football fan didn't think to himself, "wow ronaldo the best player in 
 the world because he can do a stepover!!! gawwd ! ") EA Screw the management system even the bloody 
 custom edit team if it gives you more time to focus on a better match to play. 
  
  EA the reason Champ manager 2 was a hit isn't the same reason as to make sports management games, 
 you completely missed the point as a games manufacturer.
  
  EA the reason people buy your games is because its been registered by all leagues, I bet if it 
 was any worse they would still buy the damn game, but thats no reason to think we want something 
 other than a football match on our consoles. WE JUST WANT TO PLAY A GOOD GAME.
  
  FIFA 07 is crap because of its heavy reliance on pop songs, which aren't bad songs but bloody ell, 
 whats it got to do with anything, I would buy guitar hero, you fools. 
  
  FIFA 07 is a crap game mainly because evertime i play a match my on field player have no functionality 
 as football players, sure the good players run faster than the bad players, but really there is 
 nothing to show that a good player is doing anything in game to make himself a great player.
  
  I'm not talking huge fu***ing cut scenes like in NBA BALLERS THE CHOSEN ONE evertime I want 
 ronaldo to step over (luckily this doesn't happen in FIFA 07 but I bet if EA had a word in edgeways 
 the bloody well would)
  
  I am talking about what actual ball control, clever shimmies, and feats, differentials and moves 
 a player can do all in a space of a few steps. I am also talking about a wealth of moves, so sometimes 
 you'll play a player and say wow, I love playing with this team because hes the only person in 
 the game that does that like that.
  
  I am fed up of the England team, or any team actually just running faster, and running into other 
 team members, loosing the ball so easily when dribbling past a player and also some really poor 
 A. I. 
  
  I hate the fact that a good team is mainly just better because it runs fast but my player can actual 
 run between the ball and the front legs of the opposition player and still not come away with the 
 ball, and this leads me on to fouls, its like EA said to itself some commentators are right, all 
 referess are right so we'll base the game on the that, but lets not actually read the rules of 
 football. Its not like they got it wrong, but there is still a huge huge huge way to improve what 
 so many male gamers in England want to see. Defenders.
  
  I wouldn't mind seeing cut scenes between matches either, of real life players telling us about 
 their real lifes, I. E a video or maybe even 40 to 50 videos. Make them interesting, educational 
 and cool too. And if you make them in CGI I will personally shoot the guy who made that decisicion.
 
  
  I must admit I haven't played FIFA 09, or played FIFA 07 to its full. But with its potential why 
 the hell would I want to. Its sucks proper. Its like playing Jason Lee in the next FA Cup final. 
 It might happen, but its horrible.
  
  I will though continue to play, for a few reasons, graphics aren't too bad and its the only game 
 where I can play as my supported football team, Portsmouth FC. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: samir192
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 7, 2008 3:24 pm PT
Review:  Fifa 07 makes a decent first expression with its flashy menus and the new arena features, but in 
 actual fact, this game gets very tedious very fast. this is simply because it is so repetitive. 
 Commentators repeat phrases frequently and the same animations appear over and over again (e. g. 
 same goal celebrations being used recurringly) . Another problem with the Xbox 360 version is that 
 lags behind other versions in terms of content, for example, there are only a few leagues available 
 and there isn't even a tournament mode. However, manager mode is really fun and it is very satisfying 
 to score goals (regardless of brillance) . Unfortunately, the animations look pretty unrealistic 
 compared to FIFA 08 or FIFA 09 with players almost appearing to stumble as they take shots.
  
  The fact is however that you pay (a very small amount admitted) for not very much. It's lagging 
 in content and replay value. it's very fun at first but there simply isn't enough to keep you going. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: harryrjjj
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 20, 2008 6:35 am PT
Review:  hi and welcome to my review on fifa 07 for the xbox 360. this game is allright but cohld be better. 
 the gameplay is great but the graphics for most of the players is like their cartoons the best 
 player with the best graphics is cristiano ronaldo. but some people might think diffrent. when 
 you score their is never any cheering which is preety lame and un realistic and the same celabrations. 
 the good things will have to be the gameplay. i am hoping to get fifa 09 in late november when 
 its my birthday and that looks brilliant. so overall fifa 07 is a mixed reaction sort of game so 
 thanks for reading my review on fifa 07 for the xbox 360. so have a nice day and a safe trip home. 
 so bye bye bye bye you should rent this game first so rent it first i just brought from ebay for 
 3 pound includind postage so yeah bye. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mikets1uf
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 12, 2008 7:32 am PT
Review:  Fifa 07 is an addictive game for any soccer player. The manager mode can keep you occupied for 
 months. The graphics are well done with some of the players looking very close to their real life 
 image. The online play is decent, though nothing special. My only two complaints about the game 
 would be the very inaggresive AI displayed by teammates and how difficult it is to create a decent 
 player of our own if you haven't completed the challenges to unlock extra base points. This also 
 reminds me that player progression can be rather slow in this game (not even close to being as 
 good as that of Madden) . For example, if you have a record breaking type year where you score between 
 40 to 50 goals with one person, if you're lucky, he may go up 1 or 2 points. This also makes leveling 
 lower characters even more difficult as they will gain less points than those of higher level and 
 therefore level at the same, slow rate. Fifa is an all aroun fun game though that is a great way 
 to pass time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gallardo980
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 5, 2008 11:18 am PT
Review:  My review is all about the game quality and the goods and bads of the game Fifa 07 on Xbox 360 
 .First of all this is game will appeal to most people whether you are a football fan or not which 
 is good although there are a few set backs, such as there are no championship teams such as Ipswich 
 town or Norwich city or Colchester which is really annoying if you are a supporter of these teams 
 and you can not as them. The game also suits you if you want to play with your mates, but you don't 
 want them hacking you down and scoring against you all the time because you can play on the same 
 side and start a season playing against all the top teams like Real Madrid, Barcelona and Man Utd. 
 When you start playing the game and look closely at all the players you then realise how great 
 the graphics are especially played in High Definition (HD) . My rating is 8/10 because of lack of 
 championship teams. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mr_Impossible
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 23, 2008 8:26 am PT
Review:  Fifa 07 has yet again for the Xbox 360 failed to make an effort for it's gamplay even though the 
 aiming for scoring a goal can be very easy but on the other hand the defence system is pretty much 
 laid back and still needs to improve and also the goal keepers are most of the time spot on! but 
 not always. I think the game itself needs improving otherwise fans who love playing football will 
 be disspointed and the graphics are nothing special apart from the statiaums like Old Traford great. 
 The commentators are very reppetitive, what a shame because the game has lot potential like for 
 instance being manger on Fifa 07 can be great fun but then yet again it could do better overall.
 
  
  Graphics - Nothing outstanding.
  
  Gameplay - Half exciting and half of it just frustrating.
  
  How long the game lasts? The game 
 lasts up to at least 50 hours of
  gamplay. Plus some extras for the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lokar
Rating: 4
Date: Dec 20, 2007 7:14 am PT
Review:  Take one of the most simple and fast-moving games in the world. Then make the onscreen menus hard 
 to read, the controls hard to figure out and the characters move like people whose feet have fallen 
 asleep. Call "Season Mode"by the snootier-sounding "Manager Mode" so you can sound like an overly 
 retentive tech-head. Make the stadiums look okay, but only in the dramatic pre-game photos. That'll 
 sap all the energy out of the production. Within a half hour, I was completely confused by this 
 half-hearted attempt at a soccer game. There are a few good leagues, but there's no reason they 
 couldn't give us even more. We pay good money, this is the league's own imprint for pete's sake, 
 and if the NHL's yearly video game can bring us the city leagues from almost every country in Europe, 
 the major governing body of soccer should in turn be able to throw in nearly everyone you've ever 
 read about. Why not? It's for fun, isn't it?
  
  Crimony pete, the FIFA version for the PC I got ten years ago was a lot nicer than this. Plus, 
 they still haven't given fans the one feature of a soccer video game they would really like: drunk 
 crowds who sing show tunes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lenarius
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 16, 2007 11:28 am PT
Review:  If you're looking for a game that perfectly simulates the look and feel of a professional soccer 
 game, you'll want to look at Winning Eleven 9 or Pro Evolution Soccer 2007 from Konami. If you 
 want a soccer game that's easy to pick up and play, EA Sports' Fifa series is your cup of tea. 
 
  If you're reading this review I'd imagine you probably already have a pretty good idea of what 
 this game is all about. I'm just gonna mention some of the more important aspects that have jumped 
 out at me as I've played. 
  First off, this game looks really good. The player models aren't nearly as good as Fifa 08, but 
 otherwise Fifa 07 is excellent in the graphical area. 
  Gameplay is very smooth and easy to pick up; my biggest complaint is that defense is actually a 
 lot less effective than in past Fifa games. Once an offensive player has some momentum it's extremely 
 difficult to stop them. Honestly, that's my biggest complaint about the game. The shooting mechanic 
 works really well; goalies are good but not too good.
  Another minor complaint I have is that there is no MLS league in the 360 version of the game. This 
 is minor, but I like to manage the Real Salt Lake, just cause I'm from there. 
  Basically, if you're familiar with soccer video games then Fifa 07 is going to be very easy to 
 pick up and play. If you're a veteran Fifa player and are looking for a more realistic soccer sim, 
 check out Pro Evolution 2007 or Winning Eleven 9 games, as they are more realistic but have a bigger 
 learning curve. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Neontope
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 30, 2007 7:09 pm PT
Review:  Before get onto all the nasty stuff I have to say, I will begin by telling you what I think the 
 good points are. First of all it has online play, which is a good thing most of the time. Although 
 the online play is very good and stable, I find that a lot of players seem to leave the match before 
 you get started at all. This can be very annoying at times. But staying with the good points, the 
 graphics are very good in this game, but at times there is quite alot of clipping. For example 
 when your are in the tunnel it clips like hell. I might as well face it, there is no good without 
 bad. Now onto the gameplay. I also own fifa 07 on the psp and I have to tell you that there is 
 a big difference in gameplay between the two games. But I actually prefer the psp version. Its 
 far easier than on the 360. When you lose the ball it isn't too hard to win it back but playing 
 it on the 360 you might as well call the second player to come in and tackle for you. The last 
 thing that dissapointed me in this game was the lack of teams, 6 leagues and Juventus is all you 
 get. I couldn't believe when I first started the game that the SPL was not in it, I even searched 
 the internet to see if it was in the game, but no it wasn't. Dont buy this game if you like the 
 SPL is what I say. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dartharel
Rating: 4
Date: Oct 15, 2007 2:26 pm PT
Review:  Since this game, it had always been so that Pro evo was better than fifa in the eyes of the official 
 reviews, and, in most cases, the players as well. apparently this game was going to beat the corresponding 
 pes game so, desiring to compete as i had done in previous pes games in an updated game, i went 
 fopr this over pes 6. oh boy was that a waste of money.
  
  As it has always been, fifa games focused to much on getting official names of players and making 
 sure that the players faces matched the real presons face exactly, this is all very well but who 
 really gives a fingerbag about whether the players look accurate? i wanted a good, easy to play 
 football sim and what i got was a game that passed when you shoot, shoot when you want to pass 
 and has Ai that runs around like headless chicken until someone takes control of them. yes, i was 
 a good thing to add greater managerial depth but i couldnt care much less when id rather feed this 
 game to my dog after putting it in a blender and watch him bleed to death, rather than play it 
 again. (Jkn about the dog of course lol) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Azhar85
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 11, 2007 4:43 am PT
Review:  When i'll first get my hands on Xbox 360 console, this was the one of the games i'll played on 
 my 360's console. Firstly the graphic was greatly improved from the PS2 version but the gameplay 
 are still the same as last gen graphic besides the limited of skills made this game a little dissappointed 
 for soccer fan gamers. But nevermind, although this game has limited library of skills, the gameplay 
 and the graphics still entertain u to the fullest. So for user outhere, i'll suggest you to buy 
 this game if u cannot wait for the Fifa 08 to come, lets rock our soccer worlds with multiplayer 
 and manager mode. Yeah.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alz619
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 4, 2007 7:08 am PT
Review:  It may only have 6 leagues and lacks a bit realism but when it comes to footy fun this game really 
 does own. This year it beat long time rival Pro evolution soccer (winning eleven) for probably 
 thefirst time since konami released the game series. Fifa featured a new graphic wipeout whick 
 reall took the look of football gamesto the max. They also altered the AI of the game making it 
 the most relistic game yet. the commentry is a bit boaring repetative and sometimes out of sync 
 but it beats the boaring duo on pro evo.
  Player detail was for some reason missed out on names like Carrick and Scholes.
  But the most 
 disappointing feature of the game is the fact that the manager mode is only a short five years 
 long (not even enough time to buy your dream team) . the transfers are a bit unrealistic because 
 you get teamslike watford buying superstars like Rooney and Ronaldhino.
  
  Unless your desired team owns a licenced stadium on the game then im afraid your stuck in this 
 really boaring european stadium. I would also like to tell you that if for some reason your playing 
 above your previous difficulty level it is not because you got better, but that the game got easier.
 
  
  For a general kick abut you really can't beat fifa and you should have many hours of fun on this 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: noambartouv
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 26, 2007 9:59 am PT
Review:  Fifa 07 was my favorite soccer game ever.. it does have some sound issues and the announcers do 
 get on ure nerves some times but the game is really fun! so many types of kicks and passes that 
 u just dont notice. The game has really good modes: from the Kick Off to the manger mode and to 
 the challenge mode. Fifa is really good game for people who want a game to last long in there house, 
 what i mean is that u wont get bored of it.
  Also graphics are great! player are really detailed well so they can be recognized really easy! 
 (Yosi Ben-Haim isn't black! Fifa change it!) .
  Fifa add israel to 08 ! were good enough to be there! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aduana69
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 13, 2007 7:10 pm PT
Review:  Fifa has been the one football game that has had the winning formula for a successful football 
 game ever since it first came out. It combined licensced players, stadiums and teams with good 
 graphics and good gameplay. This combination ultimately put Fifa on top every time, until now. 
 For some unknown reason, fifa has had a problem with its transfer to the next gen consoles. First 
 of all there was fifa: road to the world cup which some say was disastrous. Then ofcourse there 
 was fifa world cup 2006 which was a mild improvement but still needed improvement. Like many others 
 i blindly bought the next installment fifa 07, which i was later to discover, was a huge mistake. 
 As i turned on the game i suddenly realised what i had done. In Fifa 07, you can only be the teams 
 that are in the premier league, german budesliga, the spanish primera and Serie A. You can ofcourse 
 be national teams aswell. This i think was a major disapointment. In my view, they have taken a 
 good few steps back with that move. You can't even play as Celtic who are a big team. Anyway, i 
 soon began a season mode with my favourite team Manchester United. I discovered that you can only 
 have a five year career. For me that would only be long enough to win a few trophies and to only 
 just create the team that i would be happy with. It is not long enough at all. Fifa 06 on the PS2 
 had a 15 yr career. here are more steps back. finally, i got into a game and the controls were 
 awkward and strange, especially the tackling. The tackling system seemed to have a major glitch 
 and sometimes the players would collide and just stand there for 10 seconds, leaving the ball rolling 
 forwards, sometimes to be intercepted. Overall, Fifa 07 is not an impressive game and the game 
 designers will really have to buck up their idea's or otherwise many Fifa fans like me will end 
 up having to turn to other football games like Pro Evo! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drago709
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 11, 2007 10:08 am PT
Review:  Fifa has been the one football game that has had the winning formula for a successful football 
 game ever since it first came out. It combined licensced players, stadiums and teams with good 
 graphics and good gameplay. This combination ultimately put Fifa on top every time, until now. 
 For some unknown reason, fifa has had a problem with its transfer to the next gen consoles. First 
 of all there was fifa: road to the world cup which some say was disastrous. Then ofcourse there 
 was fifa world cup 2006 which was a mild improvement but still needed improvement. Like many others 
 i blindly bought the next installment fifa 07, which i was later to discover, was a huge mistake. 
 As i turned on the game i suddenly realised what i had done. In Fifa 07, you can only be the teams 
 that are in the premier league, german budesliga, the spanish primera and Serie A. You can ofcourse 
 be national teams aswell. This i think was a major disapointment. In my view, they have taken a 
 good few steps back with that move. You can't even play as Celtic who are a big team. Anyway, i 
 soon began a season mode with my favourite team Manchester United. I discovered that you can only 
 have a five year career. For me that would only be long enough to win a few trophies and to only 
 just create the team that i would be happy with. It is not long enough at all. Fifa 06 on the PS2 
 had a 15 yr career. here are more steps back. finally, i got into a game and the controls were 
 awkward and strange, especially the tackling. The tackling system seemed to have a major glitch 
 and sometimes the players would collide and just stand there for 10 seconds, leaving the ball rolling 
 forwards, sometimes to be intercepted. Overall, Fifa 07 is not an impressive game and the game 
 designers will really have to buck up their idea's or otherwise many Fifa fans like me will end 
 up having to turn to other football games like Pro Evo! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: koinek
Rating: 5.9
Date: Aug 8, 2007 7:39 am PT
Review:  This game is the vital first step to a great next-gen soccer game. The physics engine is phenomenal 
 and the graphics are crisp.
  
  However, those looking for an immersive experience should stay away. The lack of any secondary 
 leagues means that manager mode is a bust. The challenges are nice but once again, the lack of 
 a wider array of teams is unforgivable.
  
  The developers had a chance to make up for the lackluster rosters by providing the same engaging 
 off-the-pitch experience that Fifa 06 gave with its other features such as Fifa flashbacks, highlight 
 videos and other purchasables. However 07 dissapoints in this department as well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ChrisBoi17
Rating: 7.8
Date: Aug 4, 2007 7:55 am PT
Review:  Fifa 07 for the Xbox 360 is a massive let down, for starters there is far too many teams missing 
 some leagues that are missing is The Championship, League One, League Two mainly all except for 
 the big leagues such as The Premiership and La Liga. The Gamplay is pretty good although it is 
 almost impossible to score a decent long range shot. There is a lack of stadiums most teams use 
 the same one. The Graphics are tremendous tho, the crowd looks great, the players look realistic 
 but some do look original. There is a good loading sequence to the game while waiting for your 
 match to load you can have a kick about with any player of your choice probably the best part of 
 the game.
  
  There is only a 5 year season mode which in many aspects is great because your players wont retire 
 but the lack of teams make transfer activity uninteresting.
  
  All in all Fifa 07 was a massive let down like i said some of the gameplay is great but a big dissapointment 
 overall the game might be worth a rent but it's far better for the PS2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Roma_Victis
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jul 24, 2007 7:13 am PT
Review:  The game is good, it has good graphics, sound, etc, the problem comes in the manager mode.
  The game got like 6 or 7 leagues, lets use the spanish league as example, you choose the Valencia 
 and you win the tournament, so the last team is supposed to go to the second division, well there 
 isnt this time.
  
  You get really dissapointed, its the first Fifa in the x360, but its a rip off, 60 bucks to get 
 a expansion .
  Only if you are a harcore fan of football soccer or the Fifa series get this game, because dont 
 worth the maney you are paying for.
  
  EA has really uncheck their games, next time ithink im going to try the Konami series, Fifa 07 
 was a let down for me, this year winning eleven is the one im going to buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Driver2020
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jul 22, 2007 5:54 pm PT
Review:  As football games go well what can i say it's football and every year EA bring out there annual 
 sport games and every year they get better and better.
  Fifa 07 is the first Fifa game to have a new game engine which is a big advancement from all the 
 others as the graphics and the player movement in the game are very smooth and have a more realistic 
 feel and is a fast paced game as football should be. In my opinion it is a good game and definetly 
 the best football game for the xbox360.
  The multiplayer in Fifa 07 is great fun and has a great ranking system, the idea of trying to win 
 games with any team is a real battle as most opponents want to win, you won't find it easy to climb 
 the ranking system and it's very competive out there just like the real thing.
  
  Overall the best Fifa game to date............ highly addictive fun
  and I highly reccommend it.
 
  
  My disappointment with the game is there are only 5 leagues,
  and as a scotsman there is no Scottish premier league in the game (for the first time i believe)
 
  So as a Celtic fan, I feel let down by this. But on the other hand EA have developed a new game 
 engine for Fifa 07 as said earlier, and perhaps because of this new enginge being developed and 
 took up a lot of time in the year to bring the game out for their deadline maybe they could only 
 manage just the 5 leagues but whatever the reason I am very much looking forward to Fifa 08 as 
 it will contain the Scottish league and will have the new game engine so on that basis Fifa 08 
 will be more of the same but I believe will be better, so if you enjoy football Fifa 07 will do 
 for now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bleedblue115
Rating: 6.2
Date: Jul 20, 2007 1:18 pm PT
Review:  It's FIFA 2007 is should be great, right? This game was a huge disappointment to me. I played Winning 
 Eleven 9 for PS2 before I played FIFA 2007 for the XBOX360. I expected more out of FIFA because 
 it is a storied franchise and it was on the 360. The gameplay was so-so. It was a little too easy 
 for me. It also seemed very boring. I have never been bored playing soccer until this game came 
 along. The best thing about this game is the Ronaldinho free play loading screen. Let's hope and 
 pray that FIFA 2008 is better. We all deserve better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bamafan3414
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jul 19, 2007 10:30 am PT
Review:  So one of my friends told me to check out Fifa 07 that I would like it. Ha, I thought he was a 
 retard because me and him were sports friends and stuff and I HATED soccer, but I decided to go 
 rent the game. Wow I was like addicted to the game. It is really fun on online play and the career 
 mode is fun to.
  
  I dont know why but I like soccer now. This game has like transformed me into a soccer fanatic 
 (By the way..... GO ARSENAL!!!) . This game is just alot of fun to play with. Dont ignore it because 
 it is soccer, this game is great. It is just alot of fun.
  
  Their are some problems I have with the game though. For example, the achievments are near impossible. 
 I have played it for about one month and only gotten one achivement. Another bad thing is that 
 T. Henry for Arsenal is WAY TO GOOD. He is as good as the best player in the game which is accurate 
 in real life soccer. I mean Henry is good in real sports, but what he is in the game is like out 
 of control bad.
  
  One thing that I want for the next Fifa is a first person mode. Where you can create a player and 
 work yourself up to the top players. This kinds of modes are always fun. I would also like the 
 rest of the teams, their pretty much all their but not all so, you know, fix that EA, or I guess 
 PETER MOORE NOW!
  
  The graphics in this game arnt next-gen yet but they are defintly very close to that. I am sure 
 the next game with achieve that next-gen graphics look. The controls for this game feel right and 
 make sence and arnt that hard to learn. Also the announcer can get really annoying really fast, 
 but hey, thats what you get with all sports games.
  
  This is a great game and I look forward the the next Fifa that comes out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jpw2
Rating: 6
Date: Sep 2, 2007 10:41 am PT
Review:  Im am a huge football fan. I always get the annual football games the fifa's the pro's I have every 
 PES and every fifa from 99 up untill now. I have this game on the ps2 it was great on the ps2 the 
 gameplay just about reached perfect on that version, it was really good and the finesse shot was 
 so fun to use. Then when I saw the trailer for the 360 version I thought it looked brilliant the 
 graphics looked amazing and considering how good this game was on the ps2 this version had to be 
 MUCH MUCH better didnt it?
  
  Well actually no, I got this game at christmas and still yet I can't get into it. I started playing 
 it, it looked nice of course great visuals but WTF HAPPEND TO THE GAMEPLAY!!. First off the players 
 A. I is so rediculously dopey the players look like they don't even have a brain in their heads 
 and they jus run about at command of the controls. At first I thought the passing was ok but then 
 you realise other things like the player switching system it is so unresponsive and clunky it takes 
 so long to get the marker on the player you want to control. The players hardly walk in a straight 
 line for example whe you are defending and you send one of your players to tackle the attacker 
 they run around him first for hours and then they finally plow into them the defenders are so lazy 
 and just dont work as a group most of the time if you send your player in to tackle an attacker 
 he just runs straight past them because you have no control over the players (duuuuuuuuurrr where 
 am I going?) .
  
  The commentary is up the wall and dopey for a next gen game and they never know what they are on 
 about. On the ps2 version 30+ leagues now we go to the next gen version theres about 6 of them?? 
 and we go from about 40+ different staduims to about 20 or something like that and just about every 
 team has that same staduim that portugese style stadium, even all of the english premiership teams 
 who don't have their real staduims have been put into this stadium english stadiums arent like 
 this they are usually square closed in style the style they used for teams in the ps2 version, 
 so when you play an away match in the english premiership it looks lik you go abroard for the match.
 
  
  Back on the gameplay, in the ps2 version they managed to change the computer assited rocket shots 
 and put in more realistic un assisted shots which was great, but in this version the onlly way 
 you can score now is by rocketing it in the corner or tapping it past the keeper theres no variety 
 on the shots like what the PES series manages to do on that game you would never see the same goal 
 twice. What the hell did the do to the finesse shot in this version, on the ps2 version it was 
 a proper side footed accurate swinging shot and now its just some little tap where it just goes 
 up and bends a little bit and because of that the goalkeepers catch it with ease complete waste 
 of time. Manager mode also just feels uninspired compared to the ps2 versions one even though they 
 are practically the same, there wont even be any promotions or relegations during seasons on this 
 version (realistic huh? not) due to there being no lower leagues.
  
  It looks nothing like the real players and they seem to have borrowed PES 5's old foul system where 
 if you so much as touch the other player it is a free kick, and if you ever just miss time a slide 
 tackle 95% of the time you will be sent off. I was so dissapointed and let down by this game, pretty 
 graphics on its own isnt enough football games are all about gameplay. I hope in fifa 08 we see 
 drastic improvements on the next gen versions and for now I will go back to playing the ps2 version 
 of this game, and I know alot of you probably wont agree with this review and if you don't agree 
 with it thats fine but its clear that you don't know a good football game when you see one. You 
 cant just be won over by good graphics. I don't know why this game took longer to be realeased 
 than the ps2 version when it feels like the game was thrown together in 5 minutes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Palle_10R
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 12, 2007 5:01 pm PT
Review:  This game has many different teams to choose from including the English Premeire and German Bundesliga. 
 The gameplay and graphics are really great for a soccer game. It makes it much easier if you paly 
 soccer in real life because you can use real life tactics to help you. The really big thing that 
 i find cool is, players like Ronaldinho and Cristiano Ronaldo have unique skills and foot work 
 that you see in the game. I really think this is a next-gen sport game. It really feels like you 
 are in a soccer mtach! If you are a soccer fan get it! If you are a soccer fan you should get this 
 game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AvengerAaron666
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 7, 2007 12:04 pm PT
Review:  Being a hardcore pro evolution soccer fan ive usually stayed away from the fifa series as basically 
 it just doesnt match up.
  
  But i saw the game for cheap in the local game shop so i thought i might aswell give it a go and 
 i was pleasantly surprised, the graphics are great the passing and crosses are great also.
  
  But honestly was this game created by old men?
  
  every aspect of this game is slow including 
 menus, dribbling.
  
  for example when a player has the ball it seems to take a lifetime for them to pass it.
  
  
 The gameplay still is nowhere near the superiority of the pro evolution series, there just isnt 
 that lovely flow of the game that i love. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stewiegriffin20
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jun 28, 2007 8:02 am PT
Review:  Fifa 07 is the first ever true high def soccer game out, the Graphics are incredible, the sounds 
 are amazing, and the gameplay is too, sort of, first off you realize that there are only a limited 
 amount of teams compared to Fifa 07 on the PC, infact about 1/3, then you also realize that Fifa 
 07 has no Team Creator, the Create A Player has been limited, and that the sense of motion is a 
 bit off, EA Sports showed us the potential of Create A Player in the Tiger Woods series, with very 
 in depth creation, while this limits your character to only a certain amount of Hair styles and 
 colors, and other various Bits, and even when youve givin your player dark hair, when your playing 
 the game you realize that his hair is a light color, a bit inconsistant
  
  Moving your player feels like your moving a tank, he fells heavy and hard to move, not mensioning 
 that you cant do any tricks, it feels less dexterous, and ive never really scored a header, all 
 the players just seem to want to volley.
  
  That said there are alot of positive things about this game, first the Graphics, INCREDIBLE, 'nuff 
 said, they look great from a distance, then when you zoom in, in replay mode, they only get better, 
 you can see sweat and the cool shirt designs very well, the sounds are also great, the crowd cheers 
 when you get an oppertunity, boos when the other team scores (EA has to understand that they dont 
 boo in Europe the wistle, PLEASE change that) they even stand up when you score a goal, its awesome, 
 however the commentators arnt, there repetative and the really sometimes have no clue whats going 
 on, and whatever happend to the commentators being excited that a goal has just been scored? there 
 just not really excited, not to mension they say youve scored 10 seconds after you actually have
 
  
  Overall this game is really a Cosmetic Fix more than anything, if youve got a PC id reccomend getting 
 the PC version, even though the graphics arnt as good, there are more team and more options, this 
 game is limited, other than that if you want this game for the Xbox 360 dont spend $60 go rent 
 it, if you really like it, buy it used, its not worth $60, the graphics wont make me spend $20 
 more than the PC version 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nutta27
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 25, 2007 9:09 am PT
Review:  Story: Well as this is a Footbal game don't expect much in the way of a great storyline, the career 
 mode sees you as a manager of a club of your choice from any country and any league in that country 
 and you have to keep the fans and the board happy as to keep your job for the whole 10 years. This 
 mode can be a little long and repetetive but is fun to play in short bursts.
  
  Gameplay: Well the gameplay is similar to many other fifa games except this years ittereation is 
 allot better, the play is faster and a hell of alot smoother than before. The real draw of this 
 game is multiplayer in my opinion, just sat there playing with your friends locally is some of 
 the best fun you will have with a controller in your hands. I d have to say though is that it has 
 tried to be too much liek pro evo for my liking, and in my opinion this years pro evolution soccer 
 was still better than this.
  
  Graphics: The game looks great, majority of the players look like thier real life counterparts, 
 the pitch and fans all look photo realistic (no more 2d fans all doing the same motion over and 
 over again) athough i do have to say that the graphics haven't that much improved over last years 
 version but still a great looking game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Imp_n
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 20, 2007 11:42 am PT
Review:  I still don't get how Gamespot could give this game 8.1? It's at least a 8,5. In my opinion it's 
 one of the best games for the 360 till now. Of course the lack of teams is irritating at some point, 
 but is that what a good sports game is about? For me it's the gameplay, and of course the graphics 
 play a great role in this genre. I really enjoyed just playing in an 3rd person arena, it's something 
 different for a change. Just to run around and shoot the ball on goal, really can make the time 
 fly by. The lack of teams doesn't really bother me, my favorite teams are in it (i'd rather not 
 say which) . After i played in the arena for like an hour or two, i finally got myself away and 
 started a new manager. I really like to see how your players grow, and that the 89 overall player 
 isn't always better than the 83. One thing i actually miss, is the visual simulation. I used it 
 alot when i played fifa 06 on other platforms. It really gave you the opportunity to interfere 
 when it went bad for your team. There are so many things i like about the gameplay, and if i would 
 write them all i really have no idea when i would be done. I also noticed that you play big finals 
 in the homecourts of the team that stands first in the fixture. Why the hell? . I'll give the gameplay 
 a 9/10 because of another brilliant and well programmed EA Sports game.
  
  The graphics really look nice. The players look alot like in the real world (except they have done 
 a little to much with Ronaldinho, and now he looks like donkey) . The fields are very well designed, 
 and look alot like the real ones. Especially the English ones. All in all the graphics are brilliant 
 (except of the excaturated designs on the barca players, and i have to say: and have EA Sports 
 never seen Mancini from Roma? I mean come on!) i'll give them 8/10.
  
  The sounds are great as always, the commentary is very nice, but still needs some work (It always 
 does) . The crowd isn't really well designed, but they sound actually quite real. I'll give it a 
 8,7/10 so it has to be 9/10.
  
  All together a brilliant game (Isn't that the third time i say that?) . Great gameplay, sound and 
 graphic. My total score is a little 9.0. I know i didn't say anything of multiplayer, but i don't 
 play much on Xbox Live, so i don't really have an opinion there... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: a2entertainment
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jun 20, 2007 2:04 am PT
Review:  FIFA 07' Is a great game although it may take you a few hours to realise. I spent a few hours playing 
 it and got sick of it uite quickly when I first got it. But one day when I was bored and I decided 
 to play it, I really got into it and started to enjoy it.
  
  Graphics: Nothing special. Infact im pretty sure that if you held screenshots of the xbox and 360 
 versions next to each other they wouldn't look too different. (This could just be because my tv 
 is standard def) Player celebrations and before/after cutscenes are very detailed and add that 
 realism to the game before a match even begins.
  
  Gameplay:
  May take new players a little while to get the hang of. Even the lowest difficulty can be a challenge 
 depending on your skill level. There are a wide range of modes you can play such as Lounge mode 
 which is like a multiplayer mode where you and friends can play against each other and the game 
 automatically saves your record. You can then load this record nect time your friends are over 
 and add to it. Career mode is very fun and long. Player transferring is one of the funnest things 
 in the games because you can't tell me that you wouldn't be grinning if you had all the best players 
 playing for your team. Online play is pretty shallow but a nice feature none the less. Creating 
 your own characters is a nice feature because you can then import them into the career mode and 
 put yourself in your team.
  
  Sound:
  The sound is rather good compared with older games. The commentators are getting less repetitive 
 which is good because in the past I have come close to throwing my control at the TV because the 
 commentators repeating the same thing over and over. I have noticed a few times that they say the 
 wrong things some times but It's not too much of an issue because it occurs rarely. The crowd noises 
 make you feel like your there which sort of contradicts the commentating but... oh well...
  
  Conclusion:
  Great game for anyone who likes sport games. Will last you ages. Plus anyone 
 who is a soccer fan will love the career mode. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: draven_ash
Rating: 4.3
Date: Jun 12, 2007 1:24 pm PT
Review:  Yeah all well and good having all the licences and all but where's the actuall game? Why don't 
 players react when given a command? This makes the actual football messy and completely frustrating. 
 You never feel truly comfortable with whats going on as you can never be sure how long it will 
 take your geriatric team mates to register a button press or make a run into space. I mean come 
 on! the intelligence of the AI players is obscene! I realise football players in reality are completely 
 braindead but these guys can't even run in the right direction. The graphics are obviously quite 
 nice even though some players look plastic and others don't even look anything like their real 
 life counterparts, Paul Scholes, for example looks like a generic model that the developers have 
 assigned to players that they are too lazy to finish. Commentry, at first sounds reasonably appealing 
 until you realise you've heard the same line three times in a row, even when what they are saying 
 has nothing to do with what is going on on the pitch what so ever! This game describes apathy in 
 the purist form. Why can't EA stop being ignorant about the quality of their games and look at 
 Konami's effort with the pro evolution series, now that's quality! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spawninator
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 11, 2007 12:22 pm PT
Review:  Fifa 07 delivers so much depth on the 360. The graphics are fantastic, probably the best out of 
 all the EA 07 games. Each player has a realistic personal look. In other words, Rooney looks like 
 Rooney and Donovan looks like Donovan.
  The gameplay is beautiful. The new physics engine adds a lot to the game, in the fact that players 
 actually look like they react to play like they would in real life. Instead of the ball going almost 
 exactly to them, like it did in earlier version, they actually have to lift their leg up to catch 
 it etc.
  The open-ended side of this game is fantastic also. A person can play this game for 10 hours and 
 have a different experience everytime they play.
  Playing in the Arena as any player of your choice before you play a game is addictive. Create a 
 player is also very fun, in the fact that are many choices of how to make you player.
  
  There downsides to this game also, and so that is why I cannot give it a 10. There are many leagues 
 which are missing from this game. Mainly the MLS and many German/Austrian leagues. The created 
 players are also very slow, and do very little in an actual game.
  
  My final score... 9.2 this game has its faults, but overall it is a tremendous game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wato669
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jun 11, 2007 4:52 am PT
Review:  FIFA 07 is the best football game to hit the shelves ever, it has so many features that no football 
 game has ever ventured too.
  
  When 07 hit the shelves it was just tagged as another game in the series. But 07 has something 
 more than all the other FIFA games have. Its great graphics and great gameplay make it a highly 
 addictive game and its multiplayer depth goes further than before.
  
  I recommend this game to any football fanatic and if you like tricks and flicks this is a must 
 have.
  
  Wato
  
  If you want to talk to me about this game or have a message you would to tell me about my reviews 
 or this game just message me.
  
  Thanks
  
  Wato 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Propitious
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jun 1, 2007 5:40 am PT
Review:  this is great game, enjoy it so much that i loose a lot of time in my day due to superb graphics 
 and great stadium effect. the controls are pretty straight forward but take a lil while to adjust 
 to when you first begin. The loading screen can be customized and you can practice as your favorite 
 player in the arena. very nice touch... but, this throws you off with regards to the game when 
 it starts as the views available are not as magnificent as the arena. i was disappointed with the 
 views but quickly got over it. If you love soccer this is the game for you, and i believe it gives 
 any soccer player a good look at the future of the soccer on gaming consoles and just how great 
 the consoles are. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 50centsteelers
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 26, 2007 10:30 am PT
Review:  I am a huge fan of EA Sports games, so I decided to trade Madden 07 for this briefly, not permanently. 
 This is my first soccer game ever and I am really satisfied with it. I played all of the demos 
 available on Xbox Live Marketplace and decided this was the best. There are a lot of teams, the 
 players look realistic, and playing it makes you feel like you are actually playing professional 
 soccer. I love the graphics and the ESPN Radio that sometimes comes on. Also, putting any player 
 in the game as the arena player is good. Thanks again, EA Sports, for another enjoyable sports 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stonzreaper
Rating: 6.8
Date: May 21, 2007 4:02 am PT
Review:  Anyways this game is 120 Aus dollors i got it for 50 with a coupon.. I thought to meself whata 
 deal but when i got stuckinto it it was 
 
  
  Well the Good first: -------
  
  Great Visuals, Great teams, Great with mates
  
  Bad ------------- hat the low scoring , Too long and solo is boring, general manager is boring abd 
 many many  HATE THIS GAME.............. So i refunded it 
 and bought Tabble tennis..... Good for sovccer fans And perfect with many mates but alone...... 
 you wouldnt survive and those GODDAMN achievments are sooo hard to get !!!!! -black soulz P. s ---- 
 Better off getting Lost planet, Gears, Dead rising, Crackdown this game and many other sport games 
 are not that fun exept maby Fight night and tabble tennis... YESSS PONG IS GREAT TO 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sickness87th
Rating: 8
Date: May 18, 2007 3:30 pm PT
Review:  This game plays solid the engine is very well use in this game you cant run through people or object 
 although it does have its flaw''s. but mostly the game feels very natural and the players movement 
 once you get the hang of them are very accurate to the real skill's. But here is the problem the 
 entering the pitch graphic's are very horrible, repettetive and sad, the commenteror repeats the 
 same things over and over and over etc etc etc. Shooting accuracy is wrong the fast phase of the 
 game gets lost in the dumb refferes used to make the judgment calls and the face of the players 
 are dull. but outside of that its a good game. except when you past the ball and your team mate 
 just stay's there waiting for the ball when he should be going after the ball.
  
  I love soccer and I have played it and this game is right in between of what need's to be done 
 and need of improvements but We LOVE SOCCER THAT WE PLAY IT in concrete with a plastic ball or 
 on grass infront of 40,000 people because WE LOVE THIS GAME. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: snoopy08
Rating: 8.6
Date: May 16, 2007 5:33 am PT
Review:  It can be difficult to get a gamerscore. the gameplay is really good, the crystal clear graphics 
 of a nice 720p HD screen, can be just perfect. I think in the next FIFA 08 game, they need to have 
 like one of the analog sticks be, like a trick stick. NOT like the ones on FIFA street, but the 
 tricks that actually look realistic, so it could make the game a tad bit more enjoyable. One other 
 flaw I saw, or didnt see was that they didnt have the MLS in the game. For a copy-righted FIFA 
 game, you are supposed to have all FIFA leagues and teams. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mehroze_96
Rating: 8.3
Date: Apr 29, 2007 11:04 am PT
Review:  This game is the best one on the 360 console for soccer. This game packs some real heat. This game 
 has alot of heavy graphics. We can do tricks with the ball to evade our opponent's player. We can 
 hit a smashing volley that smashes through the net and scores our team a GOAL. The game has some 
 SWEET moves to trick our opposing player. We can also score from the half line and do a power shot 
 from over their. The game is very realestic. The game's visual effects are just AMAZING. THE game 
 is really good for people who like SOCCER VERY MUCH. the bottom line is that this game is the best 
 one for soccer. ( sorry , this review has been very short :-] ) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: el_chino_510
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 17, 2007 8:21 am PT
Review:  This game waS WORTH PLAYING but lack of teams. This game would be better if it had more national 
 teams and clubs team but overall it was all good but for 08 they should make it were you can do 
 tricks and more teams from south and central america. i know people would buy more games if they 
 had more latin teams. We know that europeans team play hard soccer but look at the top 3 in the 
 fifa rakings. Theres 2 South Americans team, Brazil and Argentina. Peru , Chile, Colombia, Venezuela, 
 Trinidad y Tobago, Ecuador are left out of the games and so are the liltle countrys in central 
 america like El Salvador, Honduras, Guatemala. Lets not forget about africa because they dont have 
 teams from Africa or Australia Region. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: midtownking300
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 15, 2007 10:34 pm PT
Review:  The Good:
  
  cool online play, real time engine and physics, amazing graphics, licesned teams, 100+ club teams, 
 and 30+ world teams, great gameplay and improvement on controller figuration which has changed, 
 great manager moad, fifa lounge is fun, and challenge mode is always a plus, there are also a ton 
 of little extras in the FIFA store such as boots for the create a player option, as well as highlight 
 reels, and locked teams that can be purchased , your profile stats are also saved so you can see 
 your stats since the first day you bought the game, which is very nice.
  
  The Bad:
  
  only 6 leagues, wheres argentina's league? Dutch league? Egyptian league? or how about MLS!!!!! 
 lol, team AI SOMETIMES gets frustrating (during close games) , no dribble button which is also frustrating 
 at times.
  
  GAMEPLAY:
  alright, OFFLINE is where this game shines, there are four modes, quick play, manager mode, lounge, 
 and challenge mode. Each are great but nothing beats the manager mode, and the challenge mode when 
 your home alone, and craving some futball. Manager mode is detailed, massive, and there are just 
 infinite options that you can play with, such as making your own formations, measuring player growth 
 (like an rpg) , just amazing. if you have friends over, lounge is great, i just love the cheap shots 
 that you can use if you win games, which tilt the game in your favor, such as 25% fatigue, or players 
 run 20% slower, just very amusing things. ONLINE is fun too, theres coop, one on one, ranked unranked, 
 etc... and there is ZERO lag, which is great, and there arent kids playing like in halo yelling 
 in cursing, there are truly resppectable people online playgin the game, true fans have respect 
 for other true fans of the sport.
  THe controller schematic has changed as well, the left trigger is now used to change person, which 
 seems like a pain in the ass but is really helpfull, and there is now a finese shot which is awseom 
 to land because it adds spin and allows you to place the ball in whatever part of the net you like... just 
 awesome.... dribbling however is weird, depending on who you are your control of the ball will be 
 different (b. c not everyone can dribble) which is why they took out the drinbble button, which 
 helps make the game A LOT more realistic... speaking of which, shots are truly difficult to land, 
 most shots you take will literally be blasted into the crowd, which is why i believe finesse shots 
 were made, but theyre only that much harder to land, and makes scoring so worth it. On the default 
 setting at first games will be close, 1-0, 2-0,2-1, 1-1, 2-2, etc... as you adjust to the difficutly 
 the scores will be differnet, 4-0, 5-0, and 6-0, now if you have an all star team in your manager 
 mode season like i did the best i could beat a team was 7-2, and that was against the worst team 
 in my league, and it was only 7 goals bc i have ronaldhinio, adriano, ibrahimovic, viera, terry, 
 cristianno, cambiasso, stankovic, samuel, zannetti, and lahm, oh and toldo was my keeper, lol, 
 amazing team, and still were scored on and only make 7 goals... speaking of which manchester utd, 
 beat roma 7-1 but thats another story....
  
  GRAPHICS:
  simply put: amazing, tons of new animations, great replays, just awesome
  
  SOUND:
  Amazing, 
 from shooting, to heading, to having the ball hit post, or even the sound it makes when hitting 
 the net!! Oh and the commentary rocks, they have team histories!!! and the commentery has yet to 
 repeat for me
  and ive played a lot...
  
  VALUE:
  fanatic fans of futball will fall in love, casual players will became fanatic fans.
  
  REVIEWERS 
 TILT:
  well im a futball fan so theres a little bias to this review..
  
  CONCLUSION:
  
  anybody who owns a 360 and into sports should get it, even if not into sport, its a great game 
 to add to collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jabneh
Rating: 5.3
Date: Apr 12, 2007 7:21 am PT
Review:  First off FIFA 06 was a much better game than the 07 version. As a matter of fact the only thing 
 i liked about FIFA 07 was how detailed the players looked on my HDTV. A side from that, it blows. 
 Create a player mode is good, than they manage to ruin it when you assign your players attributes 
 and find that you cannot make youself into the ultimate superstar. The celebrations after scoring 
 a goal are so short they don't give you enough time to enjoy your achievement. Finally, what happen 
 to all the teams from 06? In FIFA 07 there is no MLS franchise, just the U. S. team! yeah, I know, 
 who cares about U. S. football. I do, and it is on the rise ( speacial thanks to David Beckham) . 
 EA has not only screwed up this title; moreover, many others i used to play, like; NBA Live, Madden 
 NFL, even NHL. So EA, what the hell is going on?! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tallboy13
Rating: 7.3
Date: Apr 2, 2007 6:55 am PT
Review:  This is the season. That was the new slogan for FIFA 07. The PS2 went down a treat and was rated 
 just below PES 6 but it is a whole different story when you play the 360 version. The Xbox 360 
 version is lacking teams and depth when you play. The Xbox 360 version is limited to only the Premiership, 
 La liga, Ligue Orange 1, Serie A, Mexican and Internationals whereas on the PS2 version, you get 
 the extra lower divisions for better long haul gaming of promoting a Conference side. Nevertheless, 
 FIFA 07 is still a joy to look at on the 360, with stunning graphics but some minor faults when 
 you see player's shirts up close. The all new arena loading screen is back where you can choose 
 a player and use him to practice free kicks, penalties or just take pot shots at goal. Create a 
 Player has been made reasonably well but it takes too long for a player to boost his overall rating. 
 Playing on Xbox Live is quick and easy and brilliant fun. Overall - 7 out of 10 at the most. It 
 is just lacking because of short amounts of teams. Worth it only for playing on Xbox Live.
  
  Thanks - tallboy13 
::::::

::::::
UserName: F_A_H_A_D
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 1, 2007 5:12 am PT
Review:  FIFA 07 is the first soccer game which shows some reality about soccer. for example if you kick 
 the ball very hard its gonna curve and gonna go outside the line. goalies have some new different 
 techniques and styles to make saves. you can also take freekick from the 2nd player helping the 
 1st player to shoot. it has improved its free kick and it has more than 100 challenges and has 
 some new things like online playing and bringing your favourite club at the top of the table. New 
 contract signing rules and a brand new and different manager mode. it's a whole lot better than 
 FIFA 06 or any other soccer games like PES or Winning eleven, these game does not show the reality 
 but FIFA 07 also brings new goal celebrations and new kicking styles and creating a squad or a 
 player is also available. THIS GAME SHOULD BE BOUGHT!!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nflstreet2kid27
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 25, 2007 5:34 am PT
Review:  You should buy this game instantly, it has great graphics and every soccer team in the world. You 
 can make a realistic player ( not extremely good) . The only thing really bad is that achievements 
 are really hard to get. The best thing is to do just a regular game because the other things are 
 really really boring. This game overall is very fun. It has the most unbelievable graphics in the 
 whole wide world. There are yellow cards and red cards in this game. You can slide tackle, push, 
 and shoot a corner kick. If you like soccer even a little bit get this game it will turn you into 
 a soccer maniac because it's so fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: josh_h_91
Rating: 7.1
Date: Mar 21, 2007 7:32 am PT
Review:  Dont get me wrong fifa 07 is an awsome football simulation, however it does have a LOT of bad points. 
 one of them - Commentary, its soooooo dull, an say when you just scrape the post it will critisise 
 you. I think the commentary on the PS2 is way better. (Andy Gray is good though) . Aswell as this 
 the game is too easy. I mean if your a Fifa fanatic (like me) and buy it year in year out youll 
 find it soooo easy, its just no fun playing worldclass and beating everyone atleast 4 - 0. But 
 i like a challenge thats my opinion.
  Apart from that every other aspect of the game is QUITE good. I would seriously think about buying 
 this game, maybe rent it first :) Happy gaming............ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kypreo69
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 18, 2007 6:25 am PT
Review:  Fifa 07, hmm... Well lets start off with the graphics, there pretty nice but some players look 
 nothing compared to what they really look like, in the game Paul Scholes looks.. i dont know err.. 
 different? He just looks weird and more players as well not just him, the jerseys on the players 
 are very good and all, gameplay is alright i like how the players control the ball and how they 
 look around and be aware of their surrounding, the sounds alright i like the atmosphere in the 
 crowd how they sing and cheer and all but the commentators are just repetitive and boring, management 
 mode is enjoyable but it gets boring too quick.
  
  Im a pro evo fan and i do own fifa 07 and pro evo on xbox 360 and if you have a hard time choosing 
 which one to get go for fifa its better this year.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: basem_fisher
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 4, 2007 3:34 am PT
Review:  hi my name is basem u know i played both fifa 07 and pes 6 and fifa 07 is alot better .
  1st it contains the manager mode in fifa 07 and it contains a lot of details that is beutiful in 
 the pes 6 u r like a god ruling the team .
  2nd the players in pes r like robots did u saw a player like beckham he is runing like hos legs 
 r tied together or he is ill or something but in the fifa the players act like they r real .
  3rd the ball in the fifa its very good but in the pes its like a ball of steel u cant make a lob 
 to any other player in the playground unless u r very luky in the fifa the power meter of the lob 
 pass is very accurate and u can control the ball very nicely .
  at last my opinion in the pes is its a good game but IN THE FUTURE FOR ROBOTS FOOT BALL GAME but 
 the fifa it diserve like 8.9 and they should do every player has a special ability like ronaldinho 
 and puyol they arent the same skill u know ok thats my opinion in both of them i hope u like the 
 article byeeeeeeee. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lilnedy
Rating: 7.2
Date: Mar 2, 2007 10:45 am PT
Review:  Iam a huge fifa fan.... and this on sucks... five leagues and creat player mode is a joke.. there 
 is always next year.... game play is ok.... could be better... they need to stick to the 06 formula 
 for regular xbox... and it would be just fine...
  
  Iam a huge fifa fan.... and this on sucks... five leagues and creat player mode is a joke.. there 
 is always next year.... game play is ok.... could be better... they need to stick to the 06 formula 
 for regular xbox... and it would be just fine...
  
  Iam a huge fifa fan.... and this on sucks... five leagues and creat player mode is a joke.. there 
 is always next year.... game play is ok.... could be better... they need to stick to the 06 formula 
 for regular xbox... and it would be just fine... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mefornowon
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 1, 2007 7:03 am PT
Review:  Great graphic and great gameplay manager mode is very good this year and the house is rocking every 
 thing about the game is really good the best soccer/football game of the year better than Winning 
 Eleven: 2007 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brobison708
Rating: 6.3
Date: Feb 20, 2007 7:37 pm PT
Review:  FIFA 07 actually made it harder to score goals against the computer but there are many parts in 
 the game that do not simulate real life situations in the game of soccer. The graphics were descent, 
 however there was not any improvement from last year's games. The achievements take are really 
 long time to achieve because it requires playing a lot of games so the game ends up becoming pretty 
 tedious. Overall, the game is alright to play with a couple of friends but it is not that great 
 to play on-line. I would not recommend this game for the money they were asking for it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 3rdcarnales
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 19, 2007 7:25 pm PT
Review:  This game are so good to play with and you can
  look how many teams are playable in this highly addictive soccer game. I think this FIFA 07 is 
 the best soccer
  game in the world. Why? Because this game are so good in license, they have contract many players 
 such: Ronaldinho,
  David Villa, Wayne Rooney, Kaka, Landon Donovan, Lukas Podolski,
  Fonseca, etc. This game is get better and better in gameplay, sounds, and graphics. You can see 
 how good are the Roaldinho is playing the ball and how great is the free kick from David Beckham. 
 SO NOW FIFA 07 IS STILL THE BEST SOCCER GAME ALSO BETTER THAN WINNING ELEVEN SERIES. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: haloxbox360
Rating: 8.2
Date: Feb 18, 2007 1:47 pm PT
Review:  If I acutally knew anything about soccer this game would probably get a lower rating. I have no 
 idea what the leagues are or what the teams are but after i decided to be team Roma from italy 
 i relized after a couple games through the season the same stadiums were popping up. This was a 
 dissapointment. Secondly you arent gonna win the first game you play maby not even the second. 
 So i suggest looking through the manuel too see different pass types, ect. The cutscene graphics 
 are a amazing but during gameplay you never actullay get close enough to see them. This would be 
 a fun game to play if you have a friend over or have xbox live. The game really suffers if you 
 know anything about soccer or the leauges. So you'll find your self jsut playing matches and not 
 full seasons. If this is your only choice for a soccer game and you need to have a soccer game 
 every year then this is a decent pickup.
  
  Did i mention its impossible to read the text on the menu screens? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MattVans
Rating: 5
Date: Feb 1, 2007 3:38 pm PT
Review:  I've had Pro Evo 6 for a while now but as some of my friends have got Fifa07 I decided to buy it 
 (&pound;30 so I thought ok why not) .
  I played (and won) the first few games of the season and I wasn't that impressed but thought give 
 it time and i'll start to get into it . I then tried it out on Xbox Live. My friends beat me as 
 I expected (no lag) but it felt pretty much the same as the season.
  So... I thought to myself it's missing something , then it hit me. Not once did I feel any excitement. 
 Not once did I get a rush of adrenaline like you do in Pro Evo. I tried several of the best teams 
 and the players felt like they were running in custard. Turning a player sometimes when you're 
 sprinting has a 30 foot turning circle. You get so frustrated with your team and whoever says the 
 players AI is good must be blind. So many times my players seemed to be just standing around ball 
 watching and not making obvious runs. Not getting into general obvious position. I found myself 
 just wanting the match to end.
  The graphics and commentary is much better than Pro Evo 6 (I love the graphics) but when it comes 
 to which one I would pick... It would be Pro Evo 6 everytime, by a mile. I do enjoy Pro Evo 6. 
 It has it's flaws also but it's definately the footballers football game.
  I'm so disappointed with it. How can EA, after so many versions of Fifa get it this bad? EA should 
 have this genre down to a fine art. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: partho
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jan 28, 2007 5:51 am PT
Review:  Upgrading from my ps2 version of fifa 07 was a great idea, new gameplay, graphics and a whole new 
 challange since i nearly won every game on legendary on the ps2 version.
  
  The pros about the xbox 360 version is that improved graphics, although they dont like they really 
 do. The new gameplay is challanging but reseambles real gameplay. The little ad ons in the game 
 are great feature such as player analyis, man of the match, and making your teammate run into space 
 and players of the year.
  
  Now the cons no trick moves!!!! The fact that if you push shot the lose the ball and then get it 
 back 5 secs later it still shoots!!! Player movement is horrible. The keeper saves everything from 
 outside the box, you get knocked off the ball and no free kick all the time, injurys occur to often 
 in this game. Another big issue is the fact that there a minimal teams it kinda recks the appeal 
 of manager mode and fiinaly the crowd isnt as influencial as it was on ps2.
  
  Well thats all i can think of right now and i must add something about the ps2 version you get 
 pushed down a hundred times in the penalty box and 1 penalty out of 10 fouls.
  
  Well make your own opinion on the game, its fun and i play it all the time but these lil things 
 reacts the appeal of the game. Fifa 08 should be mad since they would have had more time to fix 
 the lil bugs in the game that they didnt get to do so yeah i cant wait till that, but thats at 
 the end of august. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dark-Lord44
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jan 28, 2007 5:10 am PT
Review:  As we all know, in recent years Fifa has been quite utterly oblitterated by the sheer quality of 
 of Pro evo, I myself was starting to lean towards Pro evos side, but then I saw this. With PES 
 at a temporary stall, FIFA has taken the footballing crown through and through. The new gameplay 
 engine is, overall, superb and fun to play with. It never ceases to amaze me how many cool things 
 you can do. Okay, so theres no skills and the corners are pretty screwed up, but the main principle 
 is there. The passing and moving, the bone crunching tackles and the general adrenaline of the 
 game are all here in a big way, which for a first attempt at rebuilding a crippled machine is pretty 
 good. Not to mention the next-gen graphics.
  
  But, for all these plusses, there are minuses. As I said, on this game there is no such thing as 
 a decent corner and quite a few times you find yourself trying to pass the ball foward and it just 
 pretty much stopping moving in the middle of the pitch. From time to time this certainly did screw 
 me over. However, finishing on a plus, all of thw flaws the game has are usually small things that 
 can be ironed out quite easily, and I do quite truthfully belive that EA are on to something and, 
 if they take out the cons and put some skills in, FIFA 08 will be the blitzing PES's scores all 
 across the gaming world. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AaRDaNyUl
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jan 26, 2007 5:59 pm PT
Review:  After playing Fifa 07 for some time now, i have found both fun and frustration with the game. Heres 
 how the game breaks down:
  
  Graphics: The stadiums themself are quite beautiful and unique with lighting, field patterns and 
 so forth. Unfortunately, the character models look almost plasticy, which is nto a big deal while 
 your zoomed out running down the field but and upclose shot of the player isnt always that great 
 as it should be. But if youre buying a sports game mostly likely its not for the graphics anyways.
 
  
  Sound: Sometimes i was impressed, other times i was wondering if I juat heard what i thought i 
 did. Some of the commentating is amazing, from talking about players and teams in an interesting 
 way that has never been done in fifa. However, after awhile you will hear the same ones. Team specific 
 cheers are also a nice add. However, sometimes the commentating is completely off and is really 
 quite dissappointing when your left wondering how they managed to get it right in all the other 
 fifa games and this one doesnt. Its all hit or miss.
  
  Gameplay: This is the main area where the game is completely hit or miss. Sometimes that new physics 
 engine works pretty dandy, and others leave u wondering how the ball magically bounced away from 
 8 of your defenders. Lucky CPU i guess. The entire game of passing plays more realistacally than 
 ever, as ea has been advertising, but the problem is in the AI. Strikers miss obvious runs that 
 could have put them clear into the net and defenders let strikers run right around them if you 
 actually take half a second to dribble around them (btw there are no tricks to get around them) . 
 And then adding to the list is the amazing goalkeepers that fifa has always had. Ok ea, when a 
 player is about 10 yards away from goal, he typically doesnt miss. Instead the goalie makes some 
 miraculous save and your left screaming at the tv. The way to get around problems with the AI is 
 by building momentum which is displayed next to each players name. As you complete passes each 
 player gets into position better and their stats overall increase. However ea makes problems in 
 this too. The CPU's momentum bar increased about a billion times faster than the players does. 
 They complete 3 passes and their momentum bar is halfway up, while you complete 30 and its barely 
 up a quarter. Hopefully this will be fixed in an update. On a postive note, the 360 version does 
 not have many teams (which dissappointed some) but instead now you can start with any high ranking 
 team from day 1 and have the money for it instead of having to build that reputation crap, and 
 then when you got the team you wanted the players you wanted were all retired. Damn you EA.
  
  Value: No one can deny the value of Fifa, the online is fun with each player getting to choose 
 a team to represent and then following the team based on their real schedules playing players with 
 the opposing team. Its quite fun. The manager and challenge modes leave alot of time spending getting 
 points to unlock the world teams and other unlockables, winning cups, and creating a dream team. 
 Final Words: Although Fifa 07 has some kinks, it is a nice step that ea took finally to make the 
 game of soccer a bit more realistic (in ways) . The core game still remains awesome and is a definite 
 recommend to anyone who is a fan of the series or of football in general. Hopefully, fifa 08 will 
 fix the problems that exist in this years game, but until then fifa 07 remains a great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ryanking91
Rating: 4
Date: Jan 26, 2007 9:51 am PT
Review:  Although at first looks this seems the optimum football game available, the cons are extremely 
 noticable. with constant crashing and unachievable achievments this is a game im currently trying 
 to get rid off, however others have realise what a waste of many this game was, therefore making 
 it difficult. Graphics on the other hand help to make up for the games slow gameplay and poor player 
 movement. but all of this does not add up to be a game worthy of a gamespot 'great' rating. Player 
 spec's are always a little of in these kinds of games but it seems to me that all EA have done 
 in making this one is look at 3 players a team and made an assumtion on the rest. The price aswell 
 that the game was first retailed at shocked me, as the other fifa football games released on the 
 Xbox360 flopped majorly i would of predicted a high drop in price to appolagise for the poor games 
 to date. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ryuken264
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 23, 2007 5:38 am PT
Review:  Ok this is probably one of the most honest reviews for Fifa 07 on the xbox 360. Many people play 
 this game for an hour or so and then all of a sudden dislike it. Thats the way it is with ANY game 
 out there. You have to get the feel of it first then decide if you like it or not. EA certainly 
 shows its potential in this game and more than that, showed off the skill it has using a next gen 
 console. I have had this game since the day it has come out and like many others I disliked it 
 at first because it was a totally different game than previous fifa's, but thats the beauty about 
 it. Why would we want the same game over and over with the only change being players traded, retired, 
 etc. Also, the biggest complaint is the fact that there is less clubs. Well it only makes sense 
 that they didnt include the clubs that NOBODY used and focus more on gameplay and graphics. I do 
 not see why people complain about something not being there although those lower division clubs 
 are NEVER, i mean NEVER used. Also the biggest complaint I hear from people with no skill is that 
 their players do not run to receive a pass, that is because they do not use throuh passes OR they 
 do not power the pass up hard enough. In this game you can actually hold the A or Y buttons as 
 long as you want for a harder pass AND you can aim it. Below are the pros and cons of the game.
 
  
  Pros: The gameplay is by far the greatest any soccer game has to offer. Pro Evo has always offered 
 realisitc gameplay but this year EA has definitley come on top. The music is is always awesome 
 on any fifa game and it offers more than last years. The EA radio ticker is also a cool new addition 
 that keeps you up to date if your a sports fan. The graphics are top notch on this game, even without 
 HD and I have played it with and without it. The online gameplay is by far the best EA has offered. 
 The best pro I have saved for last. Now to play Fifa 07 you REQUIRE SKILL not cheesy luck and same 
 moves over and over. It is the way soccer is supposed to be played.
  
  Cons: The challenges to earn fifa points are just a little bit too difficult. In case you do not 
 like the ticker you cannot turn it off. And although this next and last con isn't EA's fault, there 
 are people who cheat during the online games and disconnect in a certain way when you are winning 
 so they dont get the loss and you do not get the win.
  
  As I stated earlier i've played this game since day one of its release and i know every aspect 
 of it perfectly. If you happen to agree with this review just state so and if not you are entitled 
 to your own opinion. Also if there are any questions i'm more than happy to answer. My xbox live 
 ID is ryuken264 and I would love a good challenge on Live here and there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mryupcarlseen
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 22, 2007 4:09 pm PT
Review:  So EA in all thier errogance and genius tried to make FIFA as realistic as humanly possible. Well 
 congradu-freakin'-lations!!! They did it!!! Now it's a pain in the ass to score a goal in the freakin 
 game. Ok, so that is how soccer really is. But if I wanted it to be hyper-realistic, I would walk 
 my fat ass outside and play it! Granted FIFA is now more realistic , but there are also major AI 
 flaws. One of them being when you pass a ball to a fellow teammate, they just stand there and wait 
 for it. They don't run towards it or make an effort if someone is near them. So the opposing CPU 
 snatchs it while your guy just stands there like freakin' frankenstein. In addition, the difficulty 
 levels in this game are all jacked up. I'm still working on mastering amatuer!! Keep in mind on 
 previous FIFA's I could heartily beat the CPU on World Class diffculty. Another lame point to this 
 game is the shooting. There is regular shooting B and Finesse Shooting RB+B . The regular shooting 
 your guy misses the freakin' goal 95% of the time. What's the point??!! SO now when you want to 
 shoot the ball you have to press 2 buttons? LAME! And the shooting power meter is semi-retarded. 
 Bring back 03's power meter please! Ok, so now that I've thouroghly bashed this game let me tell 
 you that there is some cool stuff to it. Some of the gameplay features are cool including the concept 
 that you can upgrade you staff or upgrade your player. So the overall verdict is that it's FIFA, 
 so it is still worth buying. But they can never seem to get it all right. And it is still a blast 
 to play by your self or with friends. I still stand up and pump my fist everytime I score a goal. 
 FIFA, I both hate and adore you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dw-Dano
Rating: 6.7
Date: Jan 21, 2007 10:34 am PT
Review:  My review is gonna be short and straight to the point, ive never really played football games but 
 as soon as i saw Fifa 07 i was dribbling on my keyboard. It looked so awesome. When i first played 
 it i loved it, but after awhile i noticed that this was a watered down version of the ps2 version 
 for some strange reason. There are some sweet parts in the game graphics ofc , arena at the start 
 which i thought your friends could join but i guess not. The skills are terrible i bet if ronaldiniho 
 watched him self doing these skills he would quit football. No lower league teams annoyed me because 
 I found out they were included in the ps2 version AND SO WERE BETTER SKILLS. I loved the manager 
 mode sending scouts to other countries and all that, players dnt really look like the real thing. 
 There are some glitches like the ball moving strangely. And finally i might add the refereing is 
 a bit shabby own goals hardly come up and handballs rarely occuring, players can barge you off 
 the ball with alot of force when u are about to score which should be penalty. Goal keepers make 
 the same mistake punching the ball into their own net and even diving into it with the ball shooting 
 from far they save awesomely and computer always scores a free kick near the box. I think EA could 
 of made a superb game if they done the gameplay of Pro and kept the graphics but i have got to 
 say im a little disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Soccermn6
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 20, 2007 8:57 am PT
Review:  This is no question the Best FIFA game TO DATE! If you can look by the small amounts of teams and 
 the occasional glitch goal then you will find this to be one of the most fun games in the Fifa 
 series. For the first time since winning Eleven came out i can proudly say that this game is better 
 than any Winning eleven or pro evolution game EVER! Good: - Online is phenominal and so many features 
 you will be amazed! - Great Manager Mode - The Ball physics are without question AMAZING! - Graphics 
 are PERFECT
  
  
  Bad - Lack of teams - Lack of Defensive moves - Online there WILL be a few cheap goals
  
  
 
  You Be the Judge but if you get this game you will be amazed in how quickly it takes to learn 
 the controlls and how long you play before you master all the different features. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: loanduck
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jan 19, 2007 2:18 pm PT
Review:  I'll admit the first time I bought this game I sold it within days. Later reading more and more 
 reviews wishing for some reason the game would get updates etc.. the reviews came to this, give 
 it time and you'll appreciate the changes.
  thus I bought the game again and 'LOVE IT the new controls are a pain at first, they should of 
 had a edit buttom option, the left trigger is very fustrating at first to change players but it 
 grows on you. If you feel this game really sucks gameplay wise give it time, it will grow on you, 
 the lack of options is how it has to be in 07, but give it one more chance and live through the 
 pain of the new controls and you'll learn to love this game! overall, graphics are okay, could 
 have been better, everything is so dark,
  but the sound is amazing, you feel like you are actually there. This game is overall awesome.. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GamerX500
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jul 29, 2007 12:01 pm PT
Review:  SWEDISH
  
  Detta &auml; r ett m&aring; ste f&ouml; r fotbolls &auml; lskare! Grafiken &auml; r den b&auml; sta grafiken 
 jag n&aring; g&aring; nsin sett n&auml; r det g&auml; ller fotbolls spel! Spelk&auml; nslan &auml; r 
 ocks&aring; v&auml; ldigt bra men inte den allra b&auml; sta. Det &auml; r ganska stor skilnad om 
 man j&auml; mf&ouml; r Fifa 07 till Xbox 360 med dem andra konsolerna. Om du s&ouml; ker efter ett 
 bra fotbolls spel med en grym grafik s&aring; &auml; r det h&auml; r r&auml; tta spelet f&ouml; r dig. 
 Om du har k&ouml; rt dem andra Fifa spelen s&aring; tror jag att det tar ca en halv timme att l&auml; ra 
 sig det men om du aldrig har k&ouml; rt ett Fotbolls spel tror jag att det tar ca en timme att l&auml; ra 
 sig det. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xternal
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 19, 2007 2:17 am PT
Review:  Last year, Pro evolution Soccer 5 absolutely owned the show, with fifa a long way behind it. A 
 task was set for 07 to try beat '06. On the 360. It doesn't beat it.. It Kills it, as much as i 
 hate to say it fifa is better than pro - evo. I was a pro-evo fan until now. I have this game on 
 PSP + 360 and it is the best football game out at the minute.
  
  I was shocked on christmas, after playing the 2 of them, just how good FIFA is. In a little i'll 
 get down to the main of it but, it's just so hard to believe the difference in The Xbox360 versions, 
 and any playstation versions. Down to the NittyGritty:
  The Graphics:
  The graphics of this game, are sharper, and much more realistic than any football game on here 
 to date. The graphics on such players as: Ronaldinho, C. Ronaldo, Rooney.. And pretty much every 
 other player on the game. When someone gets on the ball you recognise them immediately, i know 
 you do on Most football games but this game is truly a big-hit for the 360.
  
  The Gameplay:
  Simply the best football gameplay of all time. although pro evo 5 gives it a run 
 for the money, Me and a guy on Xbox Live, He had pro evolution soccer 6 and took it back. Now he's 
 bought fifa. I have the both and i play fifa a whole lot more than PES 6. Also there's a feature 
 on there that's absolutely brilliant. The news features, giving you all the latest REAL LIFE news 
 at the moment, you can look at top scorers and all other cool stuff. It's really helpful when you 
 miss a game.
  
  The sound: As usual the crowd and commentary are top-notch. But this time it's less repetitive 
 and the commentators are just as creative as the players! they will go into depth, and you'll find 
 out a whole load more about football than what you already knew. So if you think commentary is 
 a big part of your enjoyment on a football game. Here it is baby, &pound;40.
  
  The Difficulty:
  Being a FIFA PS Player. I'm used to B To tackle, to tackle somebody with the 
 ball it is (A) , although to get them off the ball, run into them. The difficulty is pretty cool, 
 although i wouldn't know due to the fact i play online all the time, World class is kind of challenging, 
 so yeah it's a cool sort of difficulty, as with any fifa. The learning curve's quick
  
  My reccomendations:
  If your in a dilemma whether to get this or PES6. This i would reccomend 
 to be honest. although there is no skills like the marseille roulette on this game. Although each 
 player is a difference to their team on the pitch
  I'd reccommend any football fan with a 360 this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tooshay17
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jan 16, 2007 6:20 am PT
Review:  fifa 07 has been the long-awaited instalment of this fantastic series on the xbox360. Gameplay 
 wise I believe it is finally catching up to pro evolution but there are little things that need 
 work. The tackling system needs to be looked at and also the introduction of the ability to do 
 some tricks wouldn't hurt. The graphics are the best yet and the arena is a brilliant addition 
 but the fact that so many league's got left out was a huge disappointment. Hopefuly in fifa08 they 
 will fix these problems. Other than that its a good game, fun to play. The season is great and 
 the challenge mode is enjoyable . The fan shop is also full of a large stash of great things like 
 new balls, new players, pictures and highlights of the previous season. It also has an interview 
 with wayne rooney which is cool. Overall good game, but not perfect. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tomacres
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jun 15, 2007 2:49 pm PT
Review:  FIFA 07 on the current-gen systems was an improvement over the awful FIFA 06, but still not up 
 to the realism of PES. However, on the Xox 360, EA delivers the most realistic FIFA game ever.
 
  
  Gameplay: A whole new feel to the gameplay and it's definately for the better. It plays slower 
 and more realisticly and you will feel very proud when you score. You have to build up the play 
 and when you master the passing and shooting you can score some brilliant team goals. However, 
 the keepers need work, in PES they are too abd but in FIFA they are too good. It is much harder 
 to score one on ones and so you must direct your shot perfectly using the anolgue stick. Sounds 
 good then right? Here's the crushing blow-IT'S SO SLOW! I know it needs to be a bit slower but 
 it actually is sluggish in this game. It's a bit pants really.
  
  Graphics: The presentation of the game is brilliant as always and the licenes are still spot on. 
 However, many of the player likenessess are terrible, the players when you see them up close look 
 like they are out of the House of Wax. Some of the likenessess are OK, but some are terrible. The 
 players look more real, but they don't look like what they are supposed to. EA also over did it 
 with the sweat effects.
  
  Sound: Great soundtrack and decent commentary, although it is a bit behnd the action.
  
  Value: 
 The manager mode is still here and is good, theres also the normal turnament modes, exhibition 
 modes and so forth. There's also an edit mode which is great because PES6 on the 360 really missed 
 it. The online is decent but nothing special.
  
  The new gameplay is more realisitc, but just so slow and sluggish it's almost unbearable at points! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: emerald101
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 15, 2007 9:32 am PT
Review:  Even though some of the players do not look like the actual real players, the graphics on this 
 game stand high above any other football game currently out. Being more of a shoot em up person 
 myself and hardly ever playing sports games i absolutely love this, the game play is amazing and 
 soooo much better than pro 6 on the 360. For example in pro 6 if there is a chance to volley the 
 ball the player will usually header it. this is not the case in this game, you will never get tired 
 of the shots on this. Also instead of there being a loading screen you can practise with any player 
 you want in the third person. you can do this any time you want. A must get even if your not that 
 into soccer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gabby-gill
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jan 5, 2007 11:45 am PT
Review:  FIFA 07 delivers complete authenticity with licenses for all the world's top leagues, including 
 MLS and Mexican 1st Division in North America, and 26 others from over 20 nations. This year, you 
 have the power to shape your club's destiny in the EA Sports Interactive Leagues, a new online 
 mode that enables you to pit your club against supporters of your real-world opponents. The online 
 interactive leagues feature the F. A. Premier League, Bundesliga, French League and the Mexican 
 1st Division. Experience the future of online gaming as you play your games according to the real-world 
 schedule. When they play, you play. Track your team's progress as the aggregate results determine 
 your club's position in the league table. This year, new intelligent A. I. ensures that your 11 
 men on the pitch make realistic decisions, finding space and passing like professionals. A complete 
 overhaul of the game engine now means that you have to employ real world tactics, make split-second 
 decisions and think like a player in order to win matches. Watch as your players jostle and collide 
 realistically while trying to win balls. Experience the realism of the world's superstars, who 
 come to life with signature moves and authentic playing styles and a more sophisticated shooting 
 mechanic that gives you greater control to produce finesse shots. Plus you now have the ability 
 to apply topspin or backspin to the ball for more creative set-pieces. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lovets
Rating: 5.8
Date: Jan 4, 2007 12:09 pm PT
Review:  i had this game on the ps2 and i thought it was great but this version on the next gen is not, 
 the gameplay is completly differnent in a bad way, you would think that the next gen would have 
 a better things it dont! there is less teams and they is vital blow to manager mode beacuse that 
 means that theres a lot littler selction of players to buy if your looking for young players to 
 develop and the gameplay is not great the one thing is good is the training you can do while its 
 loading beacuse you can do shots and score some sweet goals and its quite fun when you rwaiting 
 for it to load, even though it dont take long, but the shooting a lot different on the actrual 
 gameplay the shooting is poor same as evreything else passing is so slopey and slow the response 
 is poor and the the areial play is very poor and you cant win headers that easaly and when you 
 do its very weak and rubbish. the graphics are good but i dont like the way that you have the dark 
 to light tint where at the bottom its dark and at the top end of the pitch on the other side of 
 the wing its bright, yeah it looks nice but its very hard to play and see what your doing and can 
 be frustrating. some of the faces dont look that real ethier some do but some dont and the tint 
 of the game not quite right. my opinion is this year for the xbox 360 football games (soccer) its 
 not the year for them and is dissappointing beacuse i need a good football game on the 360 if you 
 want fifa 07 get it on the older gen (ps2 pc xbox gamecube) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alan_dx
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 3, 2007 12:31 pm PT
Review:  This game has its ups and downs. We'll I'll like to say that i like this game, better than the other 
 versions. Scoring here is harder, and Goalkeepers are way damn better. Shooting from real far doesnt 
 always offer a goal (like the versions do) and thats a good thing, plus in the other versions, you 
 can almost say that when your using a big club, and shoot from far, it can garrantee you that it 
 would be 80% goal 10% goalie block 10&amp; you miss. Here nope, its just better. It doesnt always gurantee 
 you a goal. manager mode her is waay better than the other versions too. Anyway, what sucks about 
 this game is that there is only like 6 leagues, which sucks becasue the other versions have like 
 32. When your on 1-1 with the goalkeeper, its better here, also when you take out the keeper to kick 
 a ball. This game is better it rocks, i reccomend it. Oh and commentery sucks here too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 007ybse04
Rating: 7.2
Date: Jan 3, 2007 12:10 pm PT
Review:  Fifa 07 on Xbox360 isnt contain rich content like Xbox version. Extremely limited Leagues and Stadiums 
 are very huge dissapointment for most people. And I wanna say Where is the Signature Trick button 
 ? on Xbox360 ?? Yes That important Button is no more. Instead of Trick button we can see a HARD 
 SHOOT button comes. And The Commentary? Where is other fifa's commentary's performance? lazy and 
 repetitive commentary comes this time...
  let me show you pro's and Cons
  Positive
  + Good Gameplay Mechanics and Physics
  + Dynamic Weather Changes
  + SuperB Visuals with 60FPS 
 in-game
  + Good Sound FX and Audience
  + Good AI , Hardest Fifa ever.
  + Fun Online matches with no problems
  
  Negative
  - Bad Commentary (This time)
  - No Signature 
 Move button.
  - Just 5 leagues from all over the world (Not 28)
  - Unstable Frame rate in replays and demos.
  
  FIFA 07 on Xbox360 is a big mistake of EA. If 
 they worked hard and fixed that problems , This game would be the best soccer game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 3eyedrazorback
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jan 3, 2007 10:50 am PT
Review:  Single Player: I definitely like the league play and all of the teams on there and the different 
 leagues, but dang, this game is a lot harder to play that it's predecessor, (06 World Cup) . The 
 controls are all funky, and it's harder to control the player, and and and and and and... well.... it's 
 harder to shoot! Haha, i know that sounds really lame, but when you first start, it's hard to control 
 because if you're used to 06 WC, then you're gonna be missing them left and right. But on the other 
 hand, the graphics are pretty good, the hair still needs to be worked on IMO, but i can get over 
 that. I like the stadiums and all the shadows that come into play in the games. Gameplay, ah, well... it's 
 good.
  8.2/10
  Multiplayer/Online: Gosh, i could stay up all night and play this online though. As long as EA 
 servers allow it... cuz we all know the problems they sometimes have. But it's pretty stiff competition 
 on there.
  9.0/10
  Overall- 8.6/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Salt_Rok
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 2, 2007 6:28 pm PT
Review:  I think that Fifa 07 is overal a great game. Not outstanding but great. I think that the passing 
 and shooting physics are great especially being able to do a finesse shot as well as a driven shot. 
 This allows different players to learn different ways to shoot and adds a whole new dimension to 
 the game. The graphics of this game are also excellent as the shirt textures and even the sweat 
 on the backs of the players' necks are brilliatly realistic. All of the people moaning and groaning 
 about why arent the graphics as good in game as they are in the arena are stupid. When someone 
 who says this can make a game with as much detail as Fifa 07 does this, I'll kiss their hand. I 
 also love the way each player has the exact atrributes as they actually do in real life. For example, 
 you know that if you give the ball to Ronaldinho he's going to be able to skillfully glide his 
 way through Real's defence in the exact way he would in real life. In PES 6 i did not find this. 
 I also found the graphics in PES 6 to be the same as they wer in PES 3. Konami have not progressed 
 at all graphics wise in the past few years. However I did find some bad points with this game. 
 I think that the refereeing in the game was very poor becuase a player can get bullied off the 
 ball and walk away with it without evern giving away a free kick and these challenges would at 
 least be awarded a yellow card in real life. Also the slide tackle is also flawed. The rule of 
 the slide tackle is that as long as the player gets the ball before they take down the layer, its 
 a good tackle. However, countless times have I been left with Rio Ferdinand as the last line of 
 defence with Didier Drogba running at me lyk a bull and I've very cleanly slide tackled him only 
 to find myself conceding a freekick in a very dangerous area only to be converted to a goal by 
 the awesome Ballack. I think that if these two things were fixed then this would be a football 
 sim to mark all future sims against. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: limp_bizkit2k7
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 1, 2007 2:56 pm PT
Review:  Fifa 07 has many brilliant features such as the new practice mode which takes place at the beginning 
 of the game after pressing the START button, but you can access this mode on the menu whenever 
 you please.
  
  The match engine is very crisp and the stadium visuals are very stunning, with the new Wembley, 
 Emirates Stadium and the expanded Old Trafford makes the experience even more superb, a few problems 
 with some glitches around the goal area needs to be tweeked quite a bit, explained below
  
  on live play when you get a shot that hits bar, the replay shows that the ball didnt go anywhere 
 near the bar, but the ball seems to hit something invisible, which shows that the game isnt perfect 
 .
  
  Commentary is good also, Sky Sports viewers will recognise Andy Gray and Martin Tyler, but a choice 
 of commentators would be better, nothing wrong with the 2 men on the current game.
  
  The Lower Leagues is missing, but EA said that everything will be there for the 360 in Fifa 08, 
 all 3 lower leagues and more countries planned, and the arena will also be there, *along with other 
 practice modes*
  
  =* rumour 
::::::

::::::
UserName: legend34
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 31, 2006 11:04 am PT
Review:  This game is so much more complex than all of the other games its so realistic with the detail 
 of the players faces you can see their eyes following the ball. as it travels about the pitch and 
 thats just one of the many improved animations before that the players just made crappy robotic 
 movements around the pitch. another improved feature is the ball physics they are sooooooooooooooo 
 lifelike. Before the player just toe punted the ball and then the ball just went all over the place 
 like micheal jackson on drugs.
  Overall this game grows on you and at the start u think mediocre by the end u think superb. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scots1212
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 31, 2006 8:11 am PT
Review:  Review by: Dan Nielson
  www. Game-over. net game reviewer
  dnielson@game-over. net
  
  About a month ago, EA released its current-gen iteration of the FIFA series, with FIFA 07 on the 
 Xbox, PlayStation 2, and Gamecube. If you read my review of that game, you already know that I 
 was very pleased with it. It kept the same great FIFA gameplay while taking significant steps forward 
 in physics, animations, and visuals. EA really pushed the limits of the current-gen machine. A 
 month later, EA is having a go at next-gen 07. If you remember, FIFA 06 on the Xbox 360 was a disappointment, 
 to say the least. The World Cup addition was a huge improvement, although it still did not truly 
 feel next generation. Now, in their third attempt on the 360, how does EA fare? Well, theyve done 
 a pretty good job. Not great, but pretty good.
  
  One of the things that really stood out in the last-gen versions was the ball physics. It really 
 felt like you were playing with a ball, and that it was actually separate from the players that 
 were controlling it. Thankfully, these great physics fully made it into the 360 version. A soccer 
 ball does strange things. It takes funny bounces and deflects in any given directionsometimes 
 right where you want it to and other times right where you dont want it to. The ball in this game 
 is just soit feels like a ballnot some polygon with a pre-determined path for a given action. 
 FIFA 07 has accomplished this, and lets hope soccer games from now on utilize this system.
  
  The balls not the only thing that looks good and moves well and realistically. These are the 
 best looking virtual soccer players youve ever seen. They move very smoothly, and the player animations 
 are strung together very nicely, avoiding the usual hiccups in changing from one position or action 
 to another. The idea of momentum is something that hasnt really been a factor in video games since, 
 well, it hasnt ever really been a factor. In FIFA 07, youll have to take all of your movements 
 into account. You cant just be sprinting one way, stop on a dime, and be running the other way. 
 This time around, youll have to plant, turn, and then pick up speed. This adds a level of realism 
 never before seen in a soccer game. However, it can also potentially add a level of frustration 
 never before seen in a soccer game. In my opinion, the physics, momentum, and realistic feel 
 to this game are its make or break factor. If you enjoy the challenge of getting used to it, and 
 are able to use it to your advantage, it will be a blast. However, if you dont like the change 
 and get frustrated easily, it may be hard for you to enjoy this game.
  
  The graphics look fantastic on the 360s engine. The fields, stadiums, and players all look great. 
 This is definitely the best looking FIFA game to date. The cut-scenes and replays are especially 
 a treat to watch, and they move in and out of each other seamlessly and smoothly. Along with this 
 goes the presentation. The menus and areas in between actual gameplay are all very professional 
 and classy. They are easy to navigate, and flow together nicely. If a next-gen menu format is possible, 
 this game is it. The sound is right up there with the visuals as well. The announcing, crowd noise, 
 and sound effects are all top of the line. One thing Ill say about EAtheir games sound pretty 
 darn nice.
  
  As far as gameplay is concerned, I cant really say that it is better than the previous versions, 
 just different. Its really a matter of preference. If you like realism, youll enjoy this game. 
 If you enjoy a more arcade feel, youll find this version may not hold your attention. For example, 
 on defense, youll actually have toyou guessed itplay defense. If you just slide tackle or run 
 at the ball constantly (a tactic that worked more often that not on previous versions) , youll 
 find yourself getting beat of drawing a host of cards from the referees. Youll have to use strategy, 
 something a lot of gamers dont have the patience for. Likewise, offense is much more challenging, 
 and thus rewarding. In last years game, for example, the high cross would score on a header more 
 often that not. This time around, youll have to set up an attack early. You wont be able to dribble 
 past defenders and put it in the net. It takes patience, as not any shot will do. This game will 
 reward you for smart shot selection and making the extra pass. Controls are very simple to discuss. 
 If youve played the Xbox version of the game, you already know the controls. That was easy.
  
  As far as options and game modes are concerned, FIFA 07 on the 360 is pretty standard. Youve 
 got your normal friendly, tournament, practice, and challenge modes, which are basically untouched. 
 Manager mode made it to the 360 this year, which is a relief for FIFA fans. It is a very deep manager 
 mode, with plenty of options for you to mess with as the manager of your favorite team. But is 
 your favorite team even in the game? One serious problem I have with this version is the lack of 
 a large number of teams that are included. One issue that I surely dont understand is why the 
 current-gen systems have so many more teams to choose from than the next-gen? Who knows, but thats 
 the reality. Either way, the manager mode is where youll be spending most of your time.
  
  The online play of this game is a definite highlight. The lobbies are pretty much lag-free, and 
 there is a Lounge mode where you and your buddies can hang out and set up game. If you dont 
 have any friends, however, you can easily set up a quick match, as there are seemingly tons of 
 people playing this game online. Its all, for the most part, smooth and easy.
  
  If youre a soccer game fan, then youll either really enjoy this game, or really hate it. If you 
 only have a 360, then its a definite must buy as a soccer fan. However, if you also have an Xbox 
 or PS2, I have to recommend that you stick to the last-gen version. That said, its all about preference. 
 If you are up for the challenge of realistic momentum, physics, and a gameplay style that rewards 
 patience and strategy, then get the 360 version. This is a great looking game, with excellent control 
 and realism. If youre up for a challenge and are not easily frustrated, pick this one up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: king-of-ruckus
Rating: 8.3
Date: Dec 28, 2006 6:11 pm PT
Review:  This is the first sports game on the 360 that i can say i have enjoyed. EA had been one big dissapointment 
 after another, then came FIFA 2007. Compared to FIFA 2006 and FIFA World Cup for the XBOX 360, 
 2007 blows them away. I had been dissapointed with the lack of button and passing options in the 
 past, but they have fixed that and made button combo passing. Other than the new buttons, updated 
 rosters and seemingly better gameplay not much else had changed. I was dissapointed that all the 
 leagues were not there (MLS, Brasilian, Japan etc) . There are only 7. Granted they are the important 
 ones, but it would be nice to have all the options. Overall I really think they made a huge improvement 
 with FIFA this year, the graphics are great, great replay value, a good overall game.
  
  Just to clearify I am a huge soccer fan so this game naturally appealed to me. If you are not a 
 soccer fan, or a fan of soccer game, you may not enjoy this as much as i would. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Howard23
Rating: 8.3
Date: Dec 27, 2006 5:59 am PT
Review:  I am one of those gamers who continues to hope and pray that EA will produce a soccer game that 
 will rival the Winning Eleven series. Wishing that one day those beautiful graphics would be coupled 
 with good challenging game play. Well, with this installment, EA has come the closest so far. The 
 new ball controls make for great game play. At first, it can be a little frustrating, but it make 
 for a more realistic game. After all, not all passes and how the players handle those passes are 
 always perfect. I love this because it gets rid of the button mashing . You really have to slow 
 down and think of the passes you want to make and the best way to make them. Dribbling controls 
 have also been updated gone are the days of the weak chanllenge that always resulted in you loosing 
 the ball. I will admit that shots-on-goal are frustrating at first, but with some practice goal 
 scoring is as it should be,. it's by no means easy, but definitely not impossible. Of course, the 
 graphics are great and EA has a addressed the ghost shadows that drove people crazy in previous 
 installments. Thanks EA for stepping up and putting out a quality game. Konami now has some competition. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SteelersDJM
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 27, 2006 2:44 pm PT
Review:  I almost didn't try this game because of all the negative reviews. This game is addictive and highly 
 competitive vs the AI. I've played 10 games on proffessional and have just scored my 1st goal. 
 You really have to earn goals on the proffessional setting. Manager mode will keep you busy. The 
 Manager Mode is what made me chose FIFA over PES. The graphics are top notch and I enjoy the game 
 play. This is the best game I have played by EA yet. I didn't have any problems in the passing 
 game nor with defense, both are very fun and challenging. One of the most intuitive features that 
 I think should be in all EA sports games is the quarter length settings, although irrelavent. No 
 matter how many minutes you chose the clock dispays 90 minutes, but runs faster to coincide with 
 the minutes you chose. It just gives you that feeling of realism. I wish that EA would do that 
 in Madden. If PES boasts better gameplay as alot of reviews state, it must be one heck of a football 
 game. I highly recomend this game to any soccer/football fan. It is great fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: comp_atkins
Rating: 4
Date: Dec 25, 2006 11:12 pm PT
Review:  holy crap when will ea learn to program a gd game! can they maybe send a person or two from their 
 staff to actually go watch a freaking soccer game before trying to make one? believe it or not, 
 in real life when u kick a ball, you dont trip right afterwards and are left stuck to the turf 
 for 2-3 seconds... and guess what? sometimes you actually do NOT want to run right towards the 
 ball! guess what else? many times when something unexpected happens on the field, it does not take 
 players 2 seconds to react and regain the ability to use thier legs.... this game would be amazing 
 if not for a few MAJOR bugs that make it EXTREMELY irritating to actually play.. first on the list 
 is the -----ing button memory where if you're fighting for a loose ball hitting buttons fratically, 
 the instant you get the ball the game remembers that you had pressed 2 seconds earlier in trying 
 to get the ball and you end up passing to shooting to nowhere.. this bug has existed since at least 
 2001 and is still in the freaking game. are the qc people actually testing the game before release?!? 
 next is the players near absolute inability to allow a ball to be run onto.. even with the first 
 touch crap they built in.. sometimes the best touch is no touch.. but rather than the player allowing 
 the ball to simply pass by them and run onto it, they still feel the need to trap the damm ball, 
 bringing the entire play to a stop and allowing the opposing defense to catch up, and then proceed. 
 and speaking of stopping, since when in soccer does a defender have to come to a complete stop 
 when challenging an opponent for a ball??? evidently thats how ea sees things. and for the love 
 of god... if my character has a little triangle above him ( indicating he is under my control ) 
 LET HIM BE UNDER MY CONTROL!!! if i want him to not chase a ball LET ME!!! dont have to cpu make 
 my character run after every loose ball! if i want my guy to run into ( potentially) an offside 
 position LET HIM!!!! its my character, let the cpu mess the other ones up! that is all. nice try 
 ea but you still have a LONG way to go before you come up with a game i'd consider playable without 
 major irritation .. maybe FIFA 2015 will be better. i'm not holding my breath 
::::::

::::::
UserName: capricornking
Rating: 6.4
Date: Dec 22, 2006 7:40 am PT
Review:  the graphics of the game is very bad, i think the graphics of the part where ronaldhinio with the 
 ball in free training is much beeter than the original graphics of the game, i dont know ehy the 
 make the original gameplay graphics very bad, i think the graphics of PES in PS2 are better than 
 the graphics of FIFA07 in X360.
  
  the gameplay is not very advance the same gameplay style is comming from i think last 3 or 4 games 
 of fifa which is disappointing for me, but still as a football fan i hv all of FIFA and Winning 
 Eleven games, and for me winning eleven is much much better than FIFA. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xbox360_4_lyf
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 22, 2006 2:38 am PT
Review:  i got this game the other day and i was blown out of my mind and i jus wanted to play it and play 
 it and play it every time i looked at it lol.
  so when i put it in i was like not bad not bad at then i started of a friendly between chelsea 
 and west ham me chelsea lol . then i started to sort out my team bench and stuff . well that was 
 no bad all the recent players was there
  say the good part is if like ashley cole joined chelsea u can just go on transfer and put him on 
 ur team with no fee .. this is out of manager mode
  bye gtg lol 
::::::

::::::
UserName: J0Yki11
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 21, 2006 6:46 pm PT
Review:  Fifa 07 is, by far, one of the great games out right now. The gameplay is fantastic; unlike other 
 sports games out, it is not a chore to play them, and you often find yourself playing three or 
 four games in a single sitting. The physics of the game is unprecedented, but sometimes bumping 
 into someone will send you flying off your line. But this is a small complaint; everything looks 
 so real that it feels like you are watching an actual soccer game. Also, the AI, overall, is impressive, 
 but small flaws can be frustrating (players don't always run to the ball, gives control of the 
 wrong person when crossing into the box) . My final complaint is its lack of leagues. However, these 
 small errors do not tarnish the experience. Gameplay is easy to jump into, but mastering the advanced 
 moves and tactics require a substantial commitment. Also, the soundtrack is one of the best in 
 an EA title, and the in-game commentary is believable and enjoyable, though sometimes repetitive. 
 Otherwise, near flawless gameplay, amazing ball physics, and realistic animations result in a stunning 
 recreation of the sport. Also, the challenge mode adds variety and depth. The few flaws that exist 
 in this game are far too few and too minor to really hurt the game. It is a must-have for any soccer 
 fan with a 360. I wholly recommend this game. Joga bonita! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: concordca
Rating: 5.3
Date: Dec 21, 2006 6:57 am PT
Review:  sure it looks great, sounds are right on and stadiums accurate. What's wrong than?? The game play 
 is very frustrating and unrealistic. Skills are difficult to pull off AI is too strong, unnatural 
 feeling to the game.
  The other knock I have is the lack of game modes, it would be great if they plugged in a few more 
 modes like 2Kgames does so you could harness your skills, ie, dribbling, defense, scoring. They 
 game does explain well how to master the game and it's nuances, hints are poorly explained. The 
 fun is missing in this game, judging by the masses others are in agreement. EA get back to the 
 fun again in games, graphics and presentation is not everything!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: irishdman
Rating: 8.7
Date: Dec 18, 2006 1:18 pm PT
Review:  Fifa 07 can be stressfull and very rewarding at times. Stressfull when someone online has scored 
 an a goal because your goalkeeper has carelessly and rewarding when yo are two nil down and you 
 come back to win. Offline it is missing several things the ps2 version and xbox version have but 
 it makes up for this with amazing gameplay, great graphics and a great Ea soundtrack. The Online 
 mode has been greatly improved with very litlle lag if any and the Co-op mode make this something 
 special compared to the last two that have released this year. The Challange mode has been kept 
 in the game this year. Overall this game is very enjoyable and is a great experience for all footie 
 fans out there but the lack of leagues (there is only 6) but the great gameplay and graphics and 
 gameplay make up for this. If you like football this is the game for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stonecoldjaw200
Rating: 4.7
Date: Dec 18, 2006 7:22 am PT
Review:  This game is absolute poo, players cant pass to team mates but instead give it to the opponents. 
 Players cant even control ball once recieved and opponents more or less get given the ball. Shooting 
 is awful with no power to the ball and the gameplay is too predictable with the computer always 
 making at least two subs right at the end no matter what the score is.
  You can only play a random match and cant set up a premiersip league. You have to go online to 
 get the most of this game, a real bummer for people who dont have the internet or dont have an 
 Xbox Live gold account.
  What more can i say? That this game is utter poo and a waste of 30 quid. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dabomba
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 15, 2006 10:13 am PT
Review:  I'd say this game really pushes the 360 to its limits. It feels and looks more like football than 
 any other footy game out there. If you want the Ultimate in Footballing experience this is your 
 game. Please don't take this wrong and think its all front and the game is just graphics because 
 its not the game itself is a great game and although Pro Evo plays better this game feels better 
 in every department the animations are better shirts no longer look like pieces of card that are 
 unmovable like in other Fifa's and faces change throughout the Game based on whats hapenning. You 
 owe it to yourself to buy this. What are you waiting For!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: finalcross
Rating: 7.4
Date: Dec 10, 2006 11:16 am PT
Review:  When it comes to EA Sports' FIFA series I have among the highest experience with the series considering 
 I have been a regular player of the games since 1998. Every year there are both good and bad things 
 about the series but I've still managed to stay with the games year after year and this year is 
 no different, although if you're looking for the best version of FIFA 07, it's located on the current-gen 
 consoles, not on the 360.
  
  I reviewed the PS2 version of 07 a couple of months ago and it was in my eyes one of the best FIFA 
 games ever made. It had everything a soccer fan would want: plenty of teams, plenty of options 
 and great gameplay. The 360 version doesn't offer plenty of teams, doesn't have too many options 
 and the gameplay is decent but not the best that it could of been.
  
  In terms of clubs and countries, your selection is limited to six leagues: Mexico, Spain, England, 
 France, Germany and Italy and a number of countries for international selection. In terms of the 
 leagues, if you're a fan of playing with Dutch Clubs like Ajax or PSV or even the Portuguese league 
 with clubs like Benfica and/or Porto, you're going to want to avoid this game. Even fans of smaller 
 clubs or the MLS will also be disappointed with the number of omissions. While EA stated their 
 focus was on having greater detail on fewer teams, a more robust 'Rest of Europe' or 'Rest of the 
 World Option' would have been enough to satisfy those who might not cheer for clubs in Spain or 
 England. The gameplay department is a mixed bag. I really loved the fact that the game has given 
 you more freedom with your clubs with the ability to edit formations to your feel (something clearly 
 taken from Winning Eleven) but non-factor options like being able to determine how the grass pattern 
 is could have been taken out. Also a problem for seasoned FIFA players from other consoles is the 
 change in controller options. Before in defense you could simply change your player by hitting 
 the 'A' button (Green Button also the pass button on offense) but EA decided to move it to the 
 left trigger button, which used to be the secondary player assist button on regular consoles. While 
 the change isn't too bad, it can be difficult for those who were accustomed to the older scheme. 
 The game has three options: Challenge, Lounge and Manager Mode. The Challenge mode is similar to 
 the World Cup Challenge mode in the World Cup game but this time you have to complete two or three 
 tasks in order to get the points, while in WC, you had one main challenge followed by two or three 
 bonus objectives that would give you more points. The lounge is exactly like the console versions 
 and was a necessary addition considering it's the first time it's been introduced to the 360. The 
 manager mode is also similar to the PS2 and Xbox version but this time you're selection of clubs 
 is significantly less. One major grip I had with the gameplay in game with defensive selections 
 and your defense in general. Because of the change of the player change button, you're likely to 
 make mistakes in the beginning when trying to change players. Also, the computer's AI always seems 
 to be able to out-run the defender even though a player with the ball should be moving at a slightly 
 slower pace or at least shouldn't have complete control of the ball. There is also a problem with 
 the passing as there will be times when you want to pass the ball to your closest player, but instead 
 the pass with go to the most awkward spot, usually resulting in a change of possession.
  
  Another problem with the game comes in the sound department. While the commentary partnership of 
 Martin Tyler and Andy Gray is good there are at times moments when the commentary becomes so hard 
 to hear over the crowd. Another problem with the audio is during substitutions where the sound 
 nearly quite faint when the camera is showing the crowd. If you have a good surround-sound system, 
 you'll really notice the difference there.
  
  The 7.4 rating this game is getting is a justified score because when you have the option of playing 
 a great looking game or a great playing game, you should go for the great playing game and pick 
 up the current-gen versions. While EA's 3rd attempt at a soccer title is decent, it definitely 
 needs to get better quickly as Winning Eleven hits North America in January/Feb and is expected 
 to be a really good title. If you only have the 360, then you might not be too disapointed with 
 FIFA 07, but be-aware that this is not the best soccer title available. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: number1maxhead
Rating: 8.9
Date: Dec 10, 2006 7:42 am PT
Review:  EA have finally done it! They have beaten Konami and have produced the best football game to date. 
 FIFA 07 is simply amazing! FIFA 07 does everything right this time around and fans of the series, 
 and first time players will be blown away by how beautiful the game looks. EA have a few touches 
 here and there to make for FIFA 08, but nothing major. This year, FIFA 07 is everything that Pro 
 Evolution 6 wanted to be. FIFA 07 will give you hours of silky footballing action as you sit thinking 
 just one more game... as you strive to take your team to the highest level. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheNIM
Rating: 6.8
Date: May 11, 2007 12:44 pm PT
Review:  First off I will say this is not a bad game, but it isn't exciting enough for me to give a detailed 
 review. The graphics and gameplay are virtually the same. And EA is pissing me off on FIFA (and 
 about every other series outside of Madden and Fight Night) because it is not combining the full 
 games. FIFA 06 was only the world cup and no club teams. Now it's the exact opposite. I mean, it's 
 cool to have club teams but there is a major lack of variety and it leaves the game without maximum 
 replay value. If you have FIFA 06 stick to that (NOT FIFA: road to the world cup) . I mean it's 
 an ok game, but it doesn't impress me in most senses. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RogerWilcoROCKS
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 4, 2006 6:21 pm PT
Review:  I'll start off with my review of the gameplay: GREAT. Very realistic. EA has FINALLY moved away 
 from the arcadey FIFA's of old and made a football game that is a SIMULATION of the game. Player 
 movement, ball physics, scoring, defense, strategy, manager mode... it is all great fun.
  
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  Me specifically and my advice:
  
  Well, I'm in my 3rd season. What it all boils down to is maximizing your resources. Sell as many 
 players as you can to acquire the ones that you REALLY want. ALSO: My first investments were in 
 stadium size and NEGOTIATOR. I cannot stress this enough: GET YOUR NEGOTIATOR UP TO LEVEL 10. That's 
 probably why the gentleman in the previous post had such trouble prying Gerrard away from Liverpool. 
 A Level-10 negotiator will get you those non-listed players MUCH cheaper than they'll cost otherwise. 
 Also: Carry as few players as possible, HOWEVER: NOT the absolute minimum b/c if you do that, and 
 someone gets hurt, you'll hafta forfeit all of your matches until they return to health. It's all 
 about squeezing the maximum amount of your dollars and resources. (and signing the most lucrative 
 contracts available and making sure you live up to them to receive max bonuses) Also: When negotiating 
 contracts, ALWAYS offer the percentage bonuses for goals scored and clean sheets, b/c they really 
 won't cost you that much and it's an excellent way to lower the price tag of a very expensive player.
 
  
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  I've found this game to be GREAT fun and an actual football SIMULATION rather than an ARCADE game.
 
  
  I can't wait till next year. Further improved graphics and gameplay, but the real treat will be 
 ALL of the leagues and a deeper/longer manager mode. This game has definitely restored my confidence 
 that EA is on the right track with the FIFA series.
  
  NEXT YEAR, HOWEVER: EA MUST MUST MUST INCLUDE ALL LEAGUES AND MAKE THE MANAGER MODE AT LEAST 25-30 
 YEARS VERSUS ONLY 5.
  
  Buy it, be patient, and enjoy.
  
  (easy to play, difficult to master) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Smokvid
Rating: 5
Date: Dec 3, 2006 12:42 pm PT
Review:  Well just went last week to pick up Fifa 07 and the game has improved just a little bit from the 
 previous versions. I have played all the Football games there are available and EA creators are 
 still managing to make the worst Football game on market (my opinion) . The game engine still feels 
 very fake and you really dont have to be very creative to build up your attack. The only good things 
 about this game are the sound, graphics, the fact that they own all the licences and the xbox live 
 features, gameplay wise i would not recommend it! ... like i said i went and spent $59.95 as you 
 know the price and a week later when i traded it in I got $20 for the game... which i was ok with 
 it just beacuse i think that this game is worth BRAND NEW $35. Winning Eleven 9 was $ 40 and its 
 worth $70, which is also the best game there is. I will never purchase FIFA again unless they do 
 some breathtaking changes to it! Just to disclose this... FIFA is way overpriced for its luxury 
 and will never be better than KONAMI products... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BEBETO_BGM
Rating: 8.9
Date: Dec 2, 2006 12:29 pm PT
Review:  EA made an excellent work in this new version of FIFA. I play both fifa and we and for the first 
 time I can say fifa is less arcade-looking than it was on the other versions. Its gameplay is really 
 great, for the first time the ball is not attached to the player's body. It feels more like soccer 
 now. But as always, ea cleans up on one side to make it dirty on the other. I see no reason for 
 taking out the dribbles on the 360 version. It'd be almost perfect it they had kept the same characteristics 
 of the xbox and ps2 version and just had put it on the 360 version with the great graphics. I hope 
 we can download the leagues which are not present on the 360 version on xbox-live. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jacko123456789
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 2, 2006 8:33 am PT
Review:  I think that this is a brilliant game. It ahs great graphics, gameplay and sounds great. Although 
 there is not a huge amount added from Fifa 06, it fells and looks real when yu start playing. The 
 manager mode is fantastic with great updates on the players and soforth. Another great feature 
 is the stats. It gives you lots of stats and they are all correct. Unlike previous games it also 
 has decent commentary which is reported like 1 minute after the action has been taken place. Also 
 despite it being hard to score goals when you do they are always good and although they are unbelieveable 
 they are believable !!!!!. The pitcheslook immaculate and the player names at the bottom of the 
 screen look great too. In all this is a great looking game and is I think ahead of its rival Pro 
 Evo 6. What a game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SergantCross
Rating: 8.4
Date: Dec 1, 2006 1:33 pm PT
Review:  I seen the game at bullring and i see it is really wicked, but i think some teams have already 
 tooken off.
  
  The good: (I'll do it some other time)
  
  the bad: (I'll do it some other time)
  
  Gameplay: Real amazing with real foul and injurie 
 effects, some sprinting meters are kinda impresive but i think it's because it depends of peoples 
 fitness.
  
  Graphics: Just like, it is almost real but i like every graphic issues but i believe it is one 
 of my best graphic games.
  
  Sound: Funny commentrary but a little lousy crowd sound i just like the music sound they made in 
 the store.
  
  Value: Well the control is well more easier than the xbox and you have to take the men's control 
 or you are going to be the problem.
  
  Tilt: I loved it, i just played it for 30 minutes in the store so when i get it for my birthday 
 or so, i'll finish this review later. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gingerdevil666
Rating: 8.7
Date: Dec 1, 2006 3:23 am PT
Review:  Ive played both fifa and ies over the years and always been in love with fifa for its realism. 
 Unlike ies the right back of your team can't dribble past the whole opposition team and then slot 
 it in to the top corner. Which is good. As you don't often see that. So this year im not bothering 
 with ies at all on the hope fifa 07 is top notch, and i have to say its not much of an improvement 
 then the last one. okay the grpahics are cleared up and the world sound track is funkly good as 
 ever. However wot really lets me down in this fifa, is first of all the skill button, isn't really 
 up to much even when you do master it, and the auto switching is just plain awful, what good is 
 it, if A. Lennon of Spurs burst down the wing to cross a beatuiful ball across for none of the players 
 in the area to either go to the ball or even be in control with the player that it should so obviously 
 choose, and the amount of times the players run to the ball and then stop just hurts my feelings. 
 They have scaled down the number of teams on the game greatly and i was hoping that this would 
 add to something else extra but nope. But despite all my moanin like an old lady outside the post 
 office asking the hoodys for there asbo awards, its still very good and very addictive as ever. 
 I have changed the view to tele and the auto switching and passing configuration to gain the best 
 out of the game. But please EA sports if you read this. Sort out the highlights of the game so 
 you see the goals, and not a tackle on the halfway line, and auto switching must be changed, and 
 goofey ronalidnho and skilful players a like should do so much more with the ball at there feet. 
 This game is def. a grower stick with it and you'll love it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PSPThug
Rating: 8.2
Date: Nov 28, 2006 5:11 pm PT
Review:  Fifa 07 on the x-box 360 was a major change from the older fifas. The camera view, gameplay and 
 buttons had changed. The graphics are outstanding, but it does take a while to get use to. Keeping 
 that in mind the new online capabilities are fantastic. Updating squads and keeping on track with 
 soccer scores around the world is fantastic. A clean 8 out of 10 for me. I am really looking forward 
 to next instalment, because from here on it can only get better. EA games can not stop suprising 
 me and if the new games on these new consoles are getting better and better we will soon have 10 
 out of 10 games. I certainly hope so. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gmecbe
Rating: 8.6
Date: Nov 28, 2006 8:52 am PT
Review:  When i played FIFA 07 i think that i was maybe expecting more than i got. I think that overall 
 the game is really good with an interesting 5 year season mode and an extra challenges section 
 for single player. The season mode i thought was very well done. The extra managing choices of 
 current problems in the club and the player growth ability worked well with the game. My critisism 
 of the career mode is the lack of the Championship, League One and League Two divisions, not to 
 mention all of the Scottish! Also none of the trophies are even called by their correct names which 
 is really only a little annoyance but worth noting. The graphics of the game are very good the 
 like-ness of some of the players is very good but it does seem to be mostly made on graphics and 
 maybe lacks a little gameplay at times. Some of the acheivements are also i feel asking too much 
 when one acheivement is to get man of the match for a midfielder fifty times. I think that is a 
 little tedious and i dont think that i will put enough time into the game to get any of those kind 
 of achievements. When playing the game it may take you some time getting used to it being harder 
 to score in this one although it still isnt really that difficult to score if you time it right. 
 Overall the game is worth getting but only if you are a FIFA fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GoldenSilence87
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 27, 2006 8:03 pm PT
Review:  As good as it looks, and as well as it plays, FIFA 07 is still with some flaws that make it very 
 hard to completely love it. The Manager feature is back bigger and better than ever, boasting numerous 
 upgrades, features, and options than previous series' entries. That is a given. The Gameplay is 
 at times silky smooth, and at others, horribly infuriating. Rarely have I played a game that had 
 me alternating between Hell yeah! and No way! Offense, and specifically passing, have been tailored 
 to perfection. A smooth passing attack is nearly unstoppable, akin to Argentina's penalty area 
 patience, and the game pulls it off wonderfully. Shooting is lackluster however, and a good many 
 of your shots will look as if a six year old had fired them, not Wayne Rooney. Defense, meanwhile, 
 is a frustrating game of chase that often ends with your player running in useless circles while 
 the opponents striker closes in on goal. Online is a blast, nearly competely lag free, and easy 
 to start and go. The graphics are stunning. The game looks on par with any TV game today. The sound 
 is passable, retaining the fantastic music of the earlier games, and able to muster up a solid 
 roar after the homeside scores. The commentary, however, while imressive in its beginning stages 
 is quickly becomes repetitive and worst of all, the announcer will give away a free kick's success 
 or not before it has reached the goalkeeper. All in all, its a great game, and a game that will 
 keep you occupied until FIFA 08, at least. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Trudat217
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 27, 2006 7:44 am PT
Review:  This is what the next generation of Fifa games will look like for a long time. The new ball physics 
 are fun, but in certain spots they are choppy causing you to lose control. There still is nothing 
 like putting the ball in the back of the net. Graphically it looks alright, the celebrations could 
 be improved and the crowd isn't too great. There are no weather options and the players seem to 
 all get dirty and the same amount. The legacy mode can be a little confusing but you get the hang 
 of it. All it really comes down to is how much you love Fifa. If you are a fan year after year, 
 this game is the one to last you until the next one. If you are just looking to pick up a soccer 
 game, you might want to wait until EA has time to really get a full hold on the entire next generation 
 because the game feels a little rushed. This game gets a 8.5 from me because I can see the potential 
 that it needs to realize in order to be the perfect soccer game. The pieces are in place, and if 
 you can't wait to give it a try, I'll see you online. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Link922
Rating: 8.6
Date: Nov 26, 2006 10:00 pm PT
Review:  FIFA 07 is just as fun as 06 while giving better graphics and gameplay. The goalkeepers are smarter 
 and the players move better. The dribbling is a lot more realistic letting players make sprints 
 as well as slow down to a halt. The only complaint I would have is that the instant replays are 
 way too short and dont give you enough time to admire the awesome graphics of celebrations of goals. 
 Other than that, its the best fifa game to date. I would highly recomend this game to any person 
 who likes the franchise or who has a xbox360 and likes to play soccer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jtryan10
Rating: 8.6
Date: Nov 25, 2006 9:08 pm PT
Review:  Fifa 07 is a good game that i love to play. But it still has its problems.
  
  Graphics are top notch for the xbox 360 that can't get any better. Gameplay has problems like taking 
 away thumbstick moves which is disapointing. defensive is gay where they have made auto changing 
 annoying. Goalkeeper comes out when not wanted sometimes. Finnese shots are too easy, they are 
 easier than doing a normal shot. Makes playing really frustrating. Red cards are too easy to get, 
 they make aggresive tackles too hard.
  
  Sound is ok. not that bad.
  
  Value is great. They have xbox live, really hard challenges and a decent manager mode. They have 
 dropped a lot of leagues. They actually have a holland team that may be fake characters but still 
 you can replace them for the real players.
  
  Tilt i believe is ok. doesn't stand out between the old fifa's. i would be a very happy person 
 if they just kept the controls of Fifa World cup or Fifa 06 with recent kits and squads. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xboxermike
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 25, 2006 4:51 pm PT
Review:  Fifa 07 is a great football game not to say that there are things that don't annoy me about the 
 title. For example ea kinda did'nt go all out on the presentation, i mean don't get me wrong it 
 is not terible or anything, like for instance when you score a goal some of the celebrations look 
 so choppy and unamusing (unlike 2006 fifa world cup where they were perfect) and the comentators 
 don't act like the real ones on tv, so when you come around and score a goal their all like yeah 
 well...... there's another one they don't scream or anything like in a real match and also i would 
 recommend that went you first play this game put it on the amatuer difficulty setting until you 
 get the hang of the new engine because the AI in the higher difficulty settings will FRUSTRATE 
 YOU TO TEARS!!!!!! ,They will always win the ball when entering a tackle and they will easily score 
 on you every time they come close to your goal. Now for the stuff thats great about Fifa 07 1. Excellent 
 visuals the graphics have received an acceptable upgrade from previous Fifa games on the 360 they 
 aren't mind blowing or anything but they still look great with extra details like sweat , mud and 
 moving uniforms.2. Great gameplay this is a fun football game especially if you play against a friend, the 
 new engine in the game may take a little getting used to but when you do ohhh!!!! the fun you will 
 have I mean with these new ball physics there are many possibilities for some BEAUTIFUL goals , 
 I have had hours of fun with this new feature I mean seeing on screen your player beat the defence, 
 line up with the goal and curl it into the back of the net just brings a tear of joy to my eye. So 
 in conclusion Fifa 07 is a great soccer game for fans of football games so if you have an xbox360 
 you owe it to yourself to pick up this spectacular game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Powerhitter0418
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 25, 2006 2:03 pm PT
Review:  I love this game because the announcers are very responsive to what is going on in the game and 
 it sometimes feels like they are real because they use such long scripted sentences that can last 
 up to a minute. The graphics are great because you can see the sweat on the players faces and jerseys 
 and as they run down the field you can see the players jersey wrinkling as the body moves. One 
 thing I do not like and this brought down my score of the game a lot is the lack of leagues to 
 play in some leagues that are excluded include the MLS and the Portuguese league. All in all I 
 love this game and if you are a soccer of football (whatever you want to call it) fan you will 
 like this game because of its authenticity to the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: confusedbird
Rating: 8.7
Date: Nov 24, 2006 1:42 pm PT
Review:  fifa is a fun game. One of the things that is fun is the arena that you get to chhose your owen 
 player and shot agenst a goaly and do free shots. the grafecs are good and you get to change your 
 settings of time of day and more. the graits greatphects are great put with a plasma det screen 
 tv there better. its great &gt; its  its  
 its  its  its  
 its  its  its  
 its  its  its  
 its  its  its  
 its  its  its  
 its  its  its  
 its  its  its  
 its  its  its  
 its  its  its  
 its  its  its  
 its  its  its  
 its  its  its  
 its  its  its  
 its  its  its  
 its  its  its  
 its  its  its  
 its  its  its  
 its  its  its  
 its  its  its  
 its  its  its  
 its  its  its  
 its  its  its  
 its  its  its  
 its  its  its  
 its  its  its  
 its  its  its  
 its  its  its  
 its  its  its  
 its  its  its  
 its  its  its  
 its  its  its  
 its  its  its  
 its  its  its  
 its  its  its  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ak_nemeth
Rating: 4.7
Date: Nov 24, 2006 11:26 am PT
Review:  I have been playing FIFA since it was first released. I was always a fan and supported more than 
 PES series. I really did not understand that big HYPE around PES, since the graphic was worse, 
 lack of club/player names etc. Last year with the FIFA 2006 series EA made it so fantastic on the 
 original XBOX.
  I was so extremly anxious when XBOX360 was introduced, I thought I would get much-much more from 
 the next-gen console. It was the first shock when started playing with the ROAD 2 WC, I did not 
 expect too much from the WC in summer, but all my HOPE was kept for the FIFA 07. It shall be perfect 
 then - I believed, after 1 year the XBOX360 is released. EA should have had the necessary time 
 to make it fantastic for now. I played with the PC vesrion, and with the normal XBOX (as FIFA 07 
 was released 1 month earlier for those plattforms. It was a positive development playing on them. 
 Only the graphics got me down. I convinced me that XBOX360 with its brilliant graphic and the same 
 game-style (as the PC or XBOX have) must be excellent. And then here I am now with a bullet in 
 my head: It became much worse then I could ever even believe in my bad dreams. What are my concerns:
 
  The gameplay is messed up: The artificial intelligence is sometimes dumb like hell. Also can not 
 switch among the defenders manually,-when there is an opponent attack (despite setting it in the 
 options menu) . Can not score a goal by lobbing it from the sides. And guys - believe it or not 
 - they completely left out the tricks. The functions of the right thumb stick was reduced a lot.
 
  Graphics is the only thing that deserves some positive words, but not too long. I could belive 
 much better perfection (Ronaldinho, Rooney and the others look only 60-70% like they are - C. Ronaldo 
 is a joke) . Sounds are boring after playing 10 minutes) . So finally after playing with FIFA during 
 X years, I started to change to PES6, and I have a feeling that I will take rather that. The outlook 
 of FIFA07 could not offset the frustrating gameplay and that is what counts in a long run. Sorry 
 EA, but it is a semi-finished crap. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rpm8000
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 23, 2006 6:41 pm PT
Review:  The game is a success for EA Games and the first time I played the game I found it different to 
 to handle to the other versions because of the new engine used in this version. But with practice 
 I got it right , now the game feels great and the graphics are awesome. There are only 2 things 
 that the game lacks in and that is there is no A-League I am waiting for it hope the version of 
 FIFA 08 they will add it in, if you don't know the A-League that's in Australia.
  Last of all the injuries when you roll your ankle or just can't walk you need a stretcher and I 
 saw none of that in the game the player lays there or is rolling on the ground injured and then 
 when you sub him they walk off the pitch WHAT THE . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: casual33
Rating: 8.3
Date: Nov 19, 2006 5:06 pm PT
Review:  Despite what many people say about this game I think it is a really nice start to the next generation 
 of soccer games. The graphics, physics, and gameplay are all improved without getting too far away 
 from what has made the FIFA series fun to play. Some people have complained that when you switch 
 players it never gives you the person you'd actually like to control but I have not found that 
 at all. I think some people may have not realized that YOU NEED TO PRESS THE L TRIGGER TO SWITCH 
 PLAYERS, NOT B. When you hit the right button it switched just fine to me. One complaint I have 
 is the tackling, they are very strict with slide tackles and have taken step-ins out of the game. 
 Now you need to run into the player to get the ball away and sometimes the two players hit each 
 other and kind of stop for a moment making it very unrealistic. Next year I hope EA uses the solid 
 base they've made and improves on the little things to make FIFA 08 even better. Nevertheless, 
 I'm having a lot of fun playing this game and would definitely reccommend it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Izum27
Rating: 6.7
Date: Nov 15, 2006 9:00 pm PT
Review:  The ideas behind everything they did was great. They are starting to think outside of the box BUT 
 their implementation is very bad. Especially the barbaric animation. It slows the pace of the game 
 and looks UGLY. Also WHY does EA only have 8 directions that the players can move in I can hardly 
 turn the corner slightly. UP DOWN LEFT RIGHT and the 4 diagonals. They need to take it back and 
 test the game. Love the offside button, passing, and shooting. I just can't get into the movement 
 of the game. Again the barbaric flow of the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: boomerado
Rating: 4.3
Date: Nov 15, 2006 4:55 am PT
Review:  Well Id like to start this review by saying i was a fifa junkie throughout the 90`s and also up 
 until a few years ago when i came to behold a copy of pro evo soccer could like actually challange 
 the mighty EA Sports ? i actually said out loud.... I played it and loved it, and ditched Fifa 
 for this more polished up football game. Move on 5 years After 2 absolutley shocking releases of 
 fifa games on the xbox 360 we was all promised that fifa 07 was going to be so fantastic some of 
 us with heart complaints best stay away. Maybe fifa was talking about fifa 17 and made a type-o. 
 This Version of fifa on the Xbox 360 is a con. no other word for it. The Gameplay is terrible, 
 there are more Magic spots than at Paul Daniels house and for some strange reason they have omitted 
 all the league bar about 7, you cant do any tricks and its bloody hard work to get a game online 
 with having to download updates everytime you want an online play - oh and they want us xbox users, 
 no expect us xbox users to pay an extra &pound;20 for the privilidge over std xbox and ps2 users 
 ! these EA folk are mad. ok ok i know the knew pro evo dont have the kit colours and some of the 
 team names arent right but do you actually notice this once the game has started ? and yes your 
 right pro evo doesnt have all the leagues either but they never said they did have, unlike Fifa 
 who had huge advertising banners saying welcome Accrington Stanley to Fifa 07 So in summery let 
 me break this down for you all 1. Not all the leagues on the 360 Version 2. You cant do any tricks 
 (whats this about ?)
  3. Very Easy to score
  4. Roster Updates ALL the time making online play impossible 5. its &pound;20 more expensive than 
 the PS2 and Xbox Versions The only truely great achievement EA can give themselves is there marketing 
 department becuase they got me hook line and sinker. I traded this in and im now the proud (very 
 proud) owner of Pro Evo 6
  
  ** Please avoid this game at all costs **
  
  Boomer
  
  www. boomersweb. co. uk 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mike2x_03x
Rating: 6.3
Date: Nov 13, 2006 3:26 pm PT
Review:  How hard is it for EA sports to make a decent soccer game. My first complaint is: What happened 
 with the rest of the teams? Why would EA sports included national teams that didn't make it to 
 the last world cup, and leave teams that made it and play well out? example: Ecuador and Trinidad 
 and tobago. Boca Juniors and River Plate are another good example, this two teams are better than 
 any european teams, it's been proven every December when the Champion of the Libertadores Cup plays 
 in Japan againts the winner of the Chapions league tournament. is EA sports all about the money, 
 instead of the game? I do think so! they only included leagues from countries that buy more of 
 their games. i just hope that next year they hire someone that KNOWS about soccer and teach them 
 about this exciting and pasionate sport. i'll do it for free! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CrazedColombian
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 13, 2006 11:21 am PT
Review:  Alot of features have been removed. It only has 1/4 the teams of the xbox version, is 20 dollars 
 more : ( . The graphics to me seem like they are getting worse too, I believe that Fifa 06 road 
 to world cup looked the best out of the 3 360 games. The game play is fun but tricks have been 
 removed and i hate how 3-4 players bump into each other and how ur comp Ai players r dumb they 
 wont go for a run or help u. The player development system is also not very good, or at least not 
 as good as Winning elevens is, nor is the game play. I hate it how that my players who are rated 
 around mid 70s dont level up very much during the whole season when I win each game by like 4-5 
 goals and dont get scored on. I usually end up scouting players in europe or south america and 
 get young players around 16-18 who are ranked at 83... what is the point of leveling up or buying 
 players when every player u scout is ranked better than Barca, Chelsa players???? also alot of 
 players r missing like matterazi??? why isnt he at inter?
  
  this game will have to do for now but as soon as WE comes out this is getting traded in..
  
 
  it is dumb how u cant create a team or tournoment. I also hate how you cant change the appearance 
 our your players.
  
  I like how you cant change the attributes of a player so that everyone is at 100 overall. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SPC4MAFIA
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 12, 2006 3:56 am PT
Review:  If you're like me, y ou sat in front of your TV screen last year wondering where the hell the club 
 teams (Manchester U, anyone?) were on the 360's version of FIFA 06. This year, that problem, along 
 with a slew of other fixes and mixes blesses this outstanding soccer - or football for you Wankers 
 on the other side of the pond - game, and makes it an all-around success worthy of EA's heritage.
 
  
  Most notably, Electronic Arts has added an amazing Manager Mode in which you can control everything 
 from player stats and their improvement, to the same earn-and-burn points method implemented in 
 improving the team's facilities.
  
  Most importantly, however, the game is fun again: Full control of players' juking abilities, the 
 battle for the ball after goal kicks and throw-ins, and aim of your shot. The only thing that will 
 erk vets of the series is the loss of the juke stick, which now finds it's purpose fulfilled by 
 the left joystick (the right simply being labelled as the First Touch control.
  
  All-in-all, a full overhaul of last year's frustrating (but still hooligan-worthy) FIFA edition. 
 A must-get for any soccer fan; after-all, World Cup's not for another 3 years. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: anilkumn
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 12, 2006 2:18 am PT
Review:  fifa 07 opens a new world whenn ti comes to the football genre, the players faces are very good 
 and took time and effort for sure and the gameplay is extremly well done a game that has defintly 
 been concentrated on, the trickstick has well improved as there is defintly alot more tricks that 
 can be pulled off and the tricks get better if you play with a player that is naturally gifted 
 at tricks in the real football world e. g, ronaldo or ronaldinho. And the goalkeepers are well improved 
 they make finger tip saves for the ball to slip past the post by a thread and they are alot wiser 
 but the higher you put the difficulty up the better the keepers will be but that means the opposition 
 have better shots with more power which was a bit annoying for me because if your on world class 
 the hit shots at great speed and accuracy and the keeper can sometimes mess up even buffon but 
 thats very rarely. the ball physics that has been put into the game is excellent the ball reactions 
 are actually zomething you would expect in a real football match and most of your shots will be 
 deflected if there is a fare amount of players standing in your way. overall i think any fan of 
 football or past fifa's even people that prefer pro evo should defintly have a crack at this game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kmckyle
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 11, 2006 12:17 pm PT
Review:  Ah Finally!, fifa 07 contends againts pro evolution with changing its outlook on gameplay. Perfection 
 on its game physics made the difference, making it look more realistic than previous releases. 
 The passing, the ball control, the tackles, and the most rewarding of all the goals!, are something 
 to look forward to.
  The Stadium looks Immaculate.
  My problem is this...
  
  1. Player details = Very poor facial features, the Jersey's don't move for a next gen game. 2. 
 Tricks = Where are they? , what happened? Why? 3. Commentators = Good voice, but shouts in advance, 
 shouts if you are planning to cross the ball... but failed... , screems if there's an attempted 
 shot when you're actually passing the ball, pressuring you to make a sub...
  Just keeps on SCREAMING when there's nothing really to scream about.
  STOP SCREAMING!
  
  
 Anyway, Well Done! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JoeWii60
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 11, 2006 6:53 am PT
Review:  Let's get this out of the way. I rarely buy football games. I got tired of seeing more or less 
 the same versions of Fifa and Pro evolution many years ago so just stopped buying them. I bought 
 Fifa 07 on Xbox 360 because my cousin is a Fifa nut who is always getting on to me to buy a Fifa 
 game to play him online. So when he bought a 360 I took the plunge and got this game, honeslty 
 not expecting much as I'm more of a Pro evo man, well I was when I bought football games.
  
  So let's get on with the review Presentation
  
  Menus are a bit to cumbersome for my liking. 
 It's easy to jump into a online game or quick match but when you're in manager mode things get 
 a bit more tricky with mulitple menus and pages for all sorts of different things. It's workable 
 but you'll have to look around a bit to find exactly what you're looking for. Main page has a nice 
 training ground thing going on where you can practice free kicks, penalties, shooting with a single 
 player of your choice. You can continue to play this until the match starts which is nice. graphics
 
  
  The graphics are the best you will ever see in a football game, I've waited along time to see great 
 looking stadiums and players in a footy game so was very happy with this game in this regard. Some 
 players look very life like. Henry, Wayne Rooney, Ronaldinio. While some others are not so good. 
 Not really a issue for me as overall the game looks really nice with no framerate problems.
  
  Sound.
  
  Once again I was impressed. Crowd chants are well done with individual chants 
 for each team as far as I can tell. And the commentary is imo the best yet in a football game. 
 It has a lot of variety and the commentators don't ususally saye anything stupid at the wrong times 
 like in other footy games. It's on the money..
  
  Gameplay
  
  This is where I wasn't expecting much so after playing the game for many hours I'll say it's better 
 than I expected but it's not without it's problems.
  Firstly the ball no longer sticks to your feet which allows for a more realistic, Pro evo style 
 of football game. And it manages to pull it off pretty well imo, but at other times the ball can 
 seem to get away from you a bit to easy. Passing seems pretty good, you can usually pick out the 
 players you're aiming for and the power gauge is pretty well balanced allowing you to better make 
 longer crosses, shots and pases. I have issues with the speed of passes though, they seem a little 
 to slow allowing opposition players to get easy tackles at time.
  
  Shooting is a bit more tricky than I would have liked, often you will see your shots go sailing 
 over the crossbar or wide. When other times you'll do the same exact thing and you will score. 
 It all seems a bit hit and miss to me but maybe I just suck at the game and need more practice, 
 you can do a refined shot which has more accuarcy but less power, but I still seem to be off target 
 with many shots. It doesn't help that the goalies in this game are very good at stopping shots. 
 But I've improved a bit since I got the game and can usually manage at least one goal per game.
 
  
  Free kicks are easier with a good amount of well placed shots going in. And penalty kicks are very 
 easy to score. Ball control can let you down sometimes as you don't seem to turn quick enough, 
 the controls could have been tighter, but maybe that's just me.
  
  There is manager mode in this game that is really the only sort of thing resembling a cup mode 
 in this game. I haven't played enough of it to make a good judgement but it seems to have depth 
 to it. You have to guide your team through 5 seasons so it should last a long time. Other than 
 that it's basically quick match and online play.
  
  on gameplay I would say It plays a decent game of football, very fun at times, other times frustration 
 can set in when the controls seem to let you down.
  
  Online play
  
  What can I say it's very good. There is no lag in any game I've played, although it has quit out 
 on me a couple of times for no reason, but it's nothing to worry about as most of the time it's 
 perfect. There is always someone online to play and it's easy to set up. Just join a lobby and 
 send a invite to a player, that's it. Lag free football online is this games biggest pull for me 
 and it's the reason I'll be keeping this game. There is also a radio channel that plays in the 
 background online which gives you the latest footy news. Nice touch. Overall impressions
  
  I would say this is a good football game, not perfect but better than I expected as I'm not usually 
 a Fifa fan. I want to pull my hair out sometimes when I think the AI is to tough or scoring is 
 to hard, but when you do score all that's soon forgotten. If you want a football game for your 
 360 there is only two choices. This or Pro evo 6. Most reviews I've read put Pro evo 6 ahead on 
 gameplay, but admit it's a stripped down version of the PS2 game and has laggy basic online play, 
 and that the 360 version of Fif 07 is not far behind. I haven't played Pro evo 6 so I'll leave 
 the choice up to you. Both have only managed very average scores on most sites. But for online 
 play and graphics this game is far ahead from what I can tell. This game is fun but there is room 
 for improvement, If you must own a next gen football game then go ahead and pick up one of these, 
 but I think next year we will see a lot better. I can't say more than that.
  
  Fifa 07 on Xbox 360 is a 8.0/10 for me. It plays a decent game of football without ever being amazing, 
 and has very solid online play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gyrolion
Rating: 8.6
Date: Nov 10, 2006 11:29 pm PT
Review:  This game had really enjoyed me for a few good days.
  Normally I'm not into football but this game really grabbed me.
  The graphics are really hot 
 and it just plays very good
  What else should i say about this game that its just pure awesome.
  The moves you can do and 
 all are very nice.
  Making goals and seeing these real expresions on there faces is really cool to.
  Altought the 
 sounds needs some tweaking it is allright to.
  The xbox live mode is very fun to.
  I managed to totally get like 10-0 on a game, but he was probally a beginner and dident know he 
 had such a good enemy agianst him.
  My final word will be that this game will never complete with that other soccer game called PES 
 or sumthing that is for the 360 to.
  But still a recommendation to try this game out!
  
  -Gyro out 
::::::

::::::
UserName: abomounir
Rating: 8.3
Date: Nov 9, 2006 3:32 am PT
Review:  better than fifa 06... different than world cup 2006.. very good graphics... nice gameplay but 
 dificult with the new controller commands...
  
  I think they suppose to keep the commands buttons same the world cup or at less an other option 
 commands..
  
  Graphics are very good but missing the action after missing a goal or free through 
  
  i know 
 that it will cost to much to make coaches same fifa world cup but i believe that EA can do it....
 
  
  sound need some adjustment..
  
  i hope next time they will make it better for us Soccer fans 
  
  i hope next time they will 
 make it better for us Soccer fans 
  i hope next time they will make it better for us Soccer fans 
  i hope next time they will make 
 it better for us Soccer fans 
  i hope next time they will make it better for us Soccer fans 
  i hope next time they will make 
 it better for us Soccer fans 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jahanzeb
Rating: 6.7
Date: Nov 8, 2006 11:04 pm PT
Review:  to be honest there are some obvious improvements to the game. one of the cool features that you 
 can dribble around with the ball while u wait for a game to load. the ball physics are nice. and 
 obviously the next-gen graphics. but when it comes down to game play, it is no where as nice as 
 it was in fifa 06. its not fast enough, players are dumb at times, passing isn't as smooth etc 
 etc. and the sound sucks as well, the commentary and the game fx. so over all it's a dissapointment. 
 since they made it from the ground up so it might turn out to be the first of a good series from 
 EA but for now i just wanna go back to fifa 06 : ( 
::::::

::::::
UserName: firestarterUT29
Rating: 8.6
Date: Nov 8, 2006 12:28 pm PT
Review:  Okay this game isn't perfect. This game has some shortcomings like how insanely good most goalies 
 are. Also some tap ins should score much more often than they do. The interface has some nice features 
 but the Manager mode could have been more easy to navigate. Overall though this game is fun especially 
 going head to head with a friend. Perhaps the best Football game ever. I really wish they would 
 add a few more leagues and lots more international teams. They don't have many teams from Latin 
 america. And virtually no teams from Asia. Korea nearly beat France and they weren't represented. 
 Also Missing was the real jerseys from the countries for a few of the teams. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mrpinky
Rating: 4.8
Date: Nov 7, 2006 10:13 pm PT
Review:  when i saw the first video i was very excited about the new game and i when the first screenshots 
 came out of the gameplay i couldn't hold myself
  
  i finally got the game yesterday and i was deeply disappointed this game is crap
  
  Ea has 
 done it again.... nothing they improved the gameplay and the physics but that's it they took out 
 every sence of emotion in the game there is absolutely nothing if a the player is fault nothing 
 when he doesn't score noting so in the end just very lame
  
  as i was playing i was lookin for the referee to my surprise there wasn't one not even side referees 
 or the trainer bench or reporters taking pictures behind the goal
  
  this game is another huge disappointment in the Ea history and finally got me convinced to leave 
 the Ea series and look for something else
  
  thank you 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lshka
Rating: 8.7
Date: Nov 7, 2006 4:33 pm PT
Review:  BEST Soccer GAME ever..... I think this is the best soccer game i ever played. the game is totally 
 different from previous series. It takes time to learn... don't be disappointed in the first few 
 days it takes time to learn all the moves and etc. The game looks very real. Unbelievable graphic. 
 The only think i don't like-only 6 leagues. Some international teams don't have an official jerseys. 
 However the gameplay will compensate all of these. Konami pro rev soccer-B. Fifa 2007 - A+. Good 
 job ea sports...................... thank you. When writing your review, remember to keep the language 
 clean. Reviews must be 100 words minimum. We encourage you to try to get your review right the 
 first time -- you may choose to edit it later on, but by doing so, you will lose any positive feedback 
 associated with the review. We encourage you to write your review in a word processor or text editor, 
 save it to your local disk, then copy and paste it into the posting box below 
::::::

::::::
UserName: amr_tawfik
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 7, 2006 1:00 pm PT
Review:  the concept of sports video games a long time ago and with every new console EA gave us great games 
 that made history, but it is true that is the past years the quality has gone down, also because 
 we expect a lot from the best seller company of sports games.
  
  the concept of sports video games a long time ago and with every new console EA gave us great games 
 that made history, but it is true that is the past years the quality has gone down, also because 
 we expect a lot from the best seller company of sports games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alibanava
Rating: 8.4
Date: Nov 7, 2006 11:57 am PT
Review:  At first I was very disappointed for not seeing the features I'd always liked to have, for instanse, 
 saving your best goals, lots of leagues and clubs, veriety of tactics such as whole team attack, 
 different types of dribbling and much more. Then I found out they not only did not add the save 
 goal feature, but also removed the REPLAY function! same thing about dribbling, they removed everything! 
 What a rip off!
  
  But Since I had already paid $60 for this game, I said to myslef why not giving it a shot?! So 
 I started playing the career mode. I must confess, although it is disappointing on the stuff I 
 mentioned, but the game itself is hell of a fun. especially when you play against your friends 
 online. It is a very fun game and worth having it.
  
  But you may wanna consider buying WE9 too. Just to have a taste of both.
  
  EA should do a 
 much better job next time.
  
  Thanks 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sramrevo
Rating: 6.8
Date: Nov 7, 2006 1:55 am PT
Review:  The biggest thing about the new FIFA 07 is the all new physics engine. Ball and player now move 
 independently and this takes realism to the next level. The player actions flow smoothly from recieving 
 the ball till the pass or shot. (There's still a little sliding around, but nobody's perfect) . 
 It's the most realistic moving sports game to date.
  
  Graphically the game is jaw-dropping, especially during the controlled instant replays. The level 
 of detail is incredible from blades of grass, to players clothing, to even the chipped off paint 
 on the goal post! Unfortunately during normal gameplay players lines seems rough and it not easy 
 to recognise individual players. The last thing about graphics is the player likeness and I think 
 they have move a step back in this area. The faces are extremely smooth and textured, but very 
 rare do you see a good player likeness and most of the time they look a cartoonish.
  
  Sound quality is average with many sound effects in play but unfortunately non of them are very 
 clear and stand out. The commentary is playing catchup with the action and is sadly worse than 
 previous versions.
  
  Gameplay is different from what we would expect because of the new physics engine which makes everything 
 harder to do. Whether this makes the game more realistic is still open to debate. In my opinion 
 it's a step in the right direction, but there are still many kinks to sort out.
  
  This most disappointing issue is the leagues and cup tournaments that are missing. Past experience 
 with FIFA let me to expect many different leagues and tournaments but after searching high and 
 low I realised that there was only Manager Mode available. Major letdown which I hope will be greatly 
 improved. There is a humoungous amount of stats you can look through in manager mode, but it doesn't 
 really add to the value because this isn't football manager.
  
  Overall I would say for 2 years of work and a totally new game engine, it was a good effort. The 
 base is there for this to explode into the very best. Hopefully FIFA 08 will look into all the 
 kinks and make it move bang for our buck. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thebrazenone
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 6, 2006 11:24 am PT
Review:  Despite the fact that there are only six professional leagues represented, Fifa 07 is a job well 
 done.
  
  Gameplay succeeds primarily because of the ball physics, pacing/fatigue/momentum and extensive 
 player ratings. I've played exclusively on the world class difficulty controlling either Lens or 
 Portsmouth (my favorite teams) , and find that the game requires clever passing, opportunistic scoring, 
 and desperate defending - in other words it's very fun.
  
  The one major gameplay irritation is that players (even human-controlled players) still curiously 
 attempt to save balls that are going out of bounds even if last touched by the opposing team - 
 EA needs to eliminate this on rails experience. Otherwise, the controls really shine in this game 
 - they are extensive and offer all sorts of shot and pass modifiers - and you must learn these 
 in order to be successful. The keys to defending, passing and scoring in this game are patience, 
 observation and using the controls to the fullest. Playing offense and defense are very rewarding 
 (not to mention frantic) experiences once you've learned the controls.
  
  The game's graphics are great (as expected) , but the sound is not so much. The on-pitch commentary 
 is extremely repetitive and very innacurate and it can be pretty jarring at times. Thankfully, 
 the specific crowd chants for each team are well done, and the stadium p. a. announcer is a nice 
 touch. I am not into the EA trax, but there are maybe 2/3 songs that I like. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brasilone
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 5, 2006 9:45 pm PT
Review:  Do NOT buy this game. It is not really good. You can tell that the game was never finished. The 
 game play is a horrible experience. Horrible! Character feel like they are stupid in the field. 
 Auto change does not change to the player near the ball. And when you manually change the player, 
 it does change to the player near the ball. I cant believe that EA games made 3 FIFA games so far 
 for the Xbox 360 and none of them are good. Whats going on with them. Shame on EA!!! For Fifa 2008, 
 take your time and make something good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Warthog259
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 5, 2006 3:38 pm PT
Review:  It really isnt bad ok listen you can make your own substitution formation u can make a created 
 player great manager mode what else do you want its all in even scissor kicks are in it what ever 
 a real player does in real life does in the game seriously the game is awsome manager mode I really 
 think this is as good or maybe better then the won then N64 really buy this game even rent it but 
 in the beggining it SUKS MONKEY BALLS but once you learn it you get it... Oh and also the one cool 
 thing you can mark any of your players to cover the other player meaning like I have ronaldhinio 
 in my team right against france right so its Brazil vs France I can make ronaldiniho Watch henry 
 so everytime henry has the ball ronaldhinio will go after him or will try something else before 
 the pass
  
  
  EA SPORTS Ta da game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -Ivan-
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 5, 2006 2:00 pm PT
Review:  I waited a whole year for the new FIFA and this is just what i was waiting for.
  
  I followed the news day by day wating for pieces of the new FIFA that was coming this year, since 
 the signing of the players for the cover passing trough thousands of rumors, i was totally crazy 
 for playing the new game in the series because its the game i love the most.
  
  When EA announced the launch of two different versions one for XBOX and one for 360 i was a little 
 worried about the changes that new generation FIFA could have. After watching a lot of pics of 
 the game i just got more and more worried.
  
  And the time came, i finally got the game in my hands and started to play.
  The first impression 
 were kind what tha... because only 6 leagues, not so detailed faces, big changes y gameplay and 
 in the graphics made me feel a little dissapointed. But after a few hours of playing i finally 
 realized... Oh My God... this is a great game! the changes were totally for the best! realistic 
 at its most, game modes that totally will keep me playing for months and the 6 leagues are just 
 the best in the world (excepting Mexican, but im from Mexico so i love it hehe) and well i finally 
 realize that they knew what they were doing because this is not what i was wating for... this is 
 totally better!.
  
  So don&acute; t believe everything until you played for a while, then you will find what this game 
 is really about. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: el_stinger
Rating: 8.7
Date: Nov 4, 2006 10:22 pm PT
Review:  The professionalism with EA's latest release supersedes that of Konami's amateurish Pro Evo series. 
 This is evident right from the word go, with the EA logo having a major re-working into HD mode. 
 (If you don't have a HDTV, then I would suggest you get one soon, as the quality of games coming 
 out in the near future will see you wag behind!) The user is then thrust on a half pitch, facing 
 a tenacious goalkeeper. You are Ronaldinho, and yes, you can take crack shots from wherever you 
 want. You can click the right button, and you then be taking a free kick. This is an ingenious 
 way to get acquainted with the new physics engine of the game.
  
  The menu's have been reworked too, and can be a little frustrating, as some menus require you to 
 use the left thumbstick, and others allow you to go back using the B button. The menu can be perplexing, 
 especially in Lounge mode, when setting up a new lounge.
  
  Speaking of lounge, this has been a fantastic idea since 06, and has been submitted into the game, 
 which furthers EA away from PES in the FUN stakes. The only thing that I can see a negative to, 
 is the injustice that awards players who are struggling, with too many goals as an advantage. As 
 my friends found out, it is not particularly fair when it comes to distributing awards to players.
 
  
  In other news, Manager Mode has been reworked to awesome effect. With Traits and Abilities now 
 optioned into the game, you can mould your reserves into superstars. Points are gained by game 
 time to being awarded Man Of the Match. These points are then used for Player Development.
  
  The Achievements are a little tedious, however in saying that, they are difficult and will 
 take you a little while to get your gamerpoints.
  
  In order to unlock a vast array of extras, you must complete certain objectives in Challenge Mode. 
 Yup, its back and better than ever. Some challenges are incredibly hard, and will have you playing 
 in frustration to achieve for a very long time! But you'll be playing, which is what counts.
  
  You can monitor your players in much more detail then ever before now. As a former Reserves 
 coach, this is a fantastic option for you to use in your Manager Mode. Yes, it sucks that you only 
 have 5 seasons to complete your tasks, but your progress is monitored in your profile manager, 
 and to clock the game, you will be playing for ages after you finish your first season. You will 
 be continuosly starting new Manager Modes in order for you to complete every aspect of this game.
 
  
  The online aspect to this game is far superior to others on the market. I have not ever experienced 
 any lag in this game, and coming from Australia, that is very rare. I now find it fun to play French 
 players and not experience lag, unlike in other games. This is a great move by EA to get this part 
 right, if only there were achievements and tournament creation online. The frame rates on cut scenes 
 are still a little choppy from time to time. Its not as bad as it was in the demo, however, if 
 you don't own a HDTV you will notice it a lot more. They need to touch up the graphics, as it looks 
 very rushed to be completed before Christmas 06. The major disappointment is the fact that EA had 
 advertised tirelessly that Interactive Leagues would be a major part of the game, they failed us 
 on that part. The Dynamic Weather is nowhere to be seen, as well as tournament creation. There 
 is no point in adding International teams if you cannot create a World Cup game. Simple. The commentators 
 are Martin Tyler and Andy Grey, the first being the best in the business, the latter being a blue 
 nose scum whose opinion isn't worth listening to. The lag in commentary needs working on. You have 
 the best in the business and EA failed him miserably. Fix IT!!
  
  I know there are a lot of people on the net whinging about the lack of teams and leagues this time 
 around. Seriously, did you think that they could get everything done in time for its official release? 
 Who wants to play as Scunthorpe anyway? I just hope that the next release sees as many First Division 
 leagues from as many countries as possible FIRST, before adding any inferior league teams and competitions. 
 That would be a mistake. Let's please the fans world wide first, before overexposing inferior leagues. 
 And please add the A-League!! We have suffered for many years without a mention since '97.
  
  It's a great start to the Next-Gen console, and EA have done us gamers a massive boost, by 
 continuously developing and making the game better and a lot more fun each and everytime you play 
 solo or with mates. And that's what it comes down to. If you are in the market to buy a Football-Sim 
 this year, then ask yourself, are you going to invest in a game where you will be constantly in 
 awe at its continuous development? Or do you want to buy a game that is just rehashed with a few 
 bells and whistles here and there?
  
  FIFA or Pro Evo? EA or Konami? Your choice, your game. But make sure that you get bang for your 
 buck and choose FIFA, as they will always push the limits and get the best out of the machine. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarkSpartan104
Rating: 7.1
Date: Nov 4, 2006 7:44 pm PT
Review:  FIFA 07 is the latest in an endless stream of soccer games from EA. And for the first time in about 
 20 of the games (which is only like the past year or two. lol) , I really feel the series took a 
 few steps forward with this one. It's leaps and bounds away from perfection, though it should leave 
 soccer (or football, which I always thought was a very sensible title for the sport) fans salivating 
 in anticipation for FIFA 08 or whatever the next EA soccer game is titled.
  
  The first thing I noticed as an American is that the MLS is not in this version of the game. Coupled 
 with the fact that Soccer isn't all that popular here, removing a majority of the faces we'd recognize 
 (Eddie Lewis' club, Leeds are also absent since they were relegated to the championship a few years 
 ago.) seems to doom sales in the US. But for those who didn't have their hearts set on running 
 the New England Revs will find loads to love here.
  
  Ignoring the fact of the limited league scope, the manager mode is ace and the gameplay, while 
 not perfect, is vastly improved. Graphics are truly next-gen, a first for the game series. The 
 soundtrack is good as always. This game isn't perfect, but I pray it's a sign or things to come. 
 If it is, FIFA 08 will be the killer-app of the next-gen. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: meshymack
Rating: 8.6
Date: Nov 4, 2006 12:33 pm PT
Review:  When i first play this game, i got abit shocked of how this game is made! It has only 6 leagues, 
 its all our favourites major leagues! All from the top leagues. EA really cut to the chase with 
 this game, which brings you to only exhibition kick off, challenge mode, manager mode and live! 
 The graphics definately can be better? The players inside looked rather shiny and their faces are 
 not as detailed. The stadium is nice as well as the crowd. And the field looks great! The ball 
 physics is something to look forward to! The camera view has only 4 types... Hardly can catch the 
 angle that i prefer. After i played for a couple of hours, I find that this game focus on the reality 
 of real life soccer... meaning that passing, shooting, defending, all are about how hard you kick 
 the ball, which direction of the ball, of where you want it and how far you want it, not to mention 
 that the direction of ya shooting really counts too! Its very cool and interesting that EA made 
 it so real. The strength of how you kick the ball (how long you hold down the button) really will 
 effect your gameplay! Especially the direction where you want the ball to go! This really amaze 
 me as its so real! I had to applause this part of the game!
  
  I could feel the tension from the start of the game till i bring the ball into the penalty area, 
 shooting it, AI goalie seems a lot smarter having to save it by parry the ball and keeping the 
 ball alive and you running after the ball giving a volley or header while a few defenders jumping, 
 sliding, blocking you with what they have! Wow! Now in Fifa 07, inside penalty box really is like 
 a mini war zone! Pretty intense and cool...
  
  Able to see ya players contacting the ball with every movement are just a beauty to look at! Two 
 thumbs up! This is really one of the amazing stuffs to look at... I think i really do enjoy playing 
 this game as much even though theres limited options of gameplay to choose from, like cup games 
 or international gameplay. Theres still definitely something i look forward when i play this game! 
 Its how realistic this game really is...
  
  I didnt regret getting this game at all. Maybe its your turn to get convinced by the realistic 
 of the game that EA had brought us! I enjoy playing Fifa 07 very much! Will look forward for Fifa 
 08 in the coming future! Well done EA! Thanks! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ronnyfyr
Rating: 8.4
Date: Nov 4, 2006 10:41 am PT
Review:  After the onslaught of soccer games from EA last year with world cup it's about time FIFA got with 
 the times adding all the clubs to the game. Game play is great.... not perfect... but great all the 
 same. Camera moves better and they've tweaked some stuff to help out with devoloping your plays. 
 Throw ins are better, corners are the same, through pass is great, and AI is what yo u make of 
 it. Controls are more responsive than last year.. all in all a good game. If they improve on next 
 years link they did this year from last, we'll be excited. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: broncoguy07
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 3, 2006 5:02 pm PT
Review:  FIFA 07 is by far the best soocer game on the 360 yet and might be the best sports game on the 
 360 produced from EA. This game really only has one problem and that is the fact that there are 
 only 6 leagues. It is not a huge problem because the only leagues that most would play with are 
 all in it. When you start to play you immediatley feel the difference in gameplay. Players move 
 much more realistically passing, shooting, and dribbling are all so improved over the previous 
 two games. Now you can't pick up the ball on your half of the field and two seconds later be putting 
 in a shot because players move slower and you have to slowly work your way forward. Graphics are 
 easily the best we've seen so far. Commentary is not as good as I would have expected it to be. 
 I only just got the game and I am only a few games into manager mode but it does dissappoint me 
 that it only lasts 5 years. The fan shop is good and includes shoes to put on your created player, 
 plenty of balls to play with, season highlights and player interviews, and plenty more. The only 
 thing missing form this game is maybe some more teams and a longer manager mode but apart from 
 that this game is near perfect and I have ejoyed it a lot so far. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: batigol_9
Rating: 7.9
Date: Nov 3, 2006 10:05 am PT
Review:  First of all, the game is great online, it lags less, it's got a lot new features and game modes. 
 I really think that the previous 2 games on XBOX 360 looked better but the movements on this one 
 are a lot better. I love to see a pass with three fingers and the way they lob the ball, the way 
 they shoot and they way they act on the pitch. But I payed $64.00 for this game and the $39.99 
 version for regular XBOX has more leagues, more stadiums and I just feel weird about it. I love 
 the man of the match info and pictures, and the details on player info, but now the Right Anolog 
 stick is not used for faints and skills and it's a lot harder than before to make cool moves, I 
 don't really mind but I have friends who like the Right Analog stick for moves and faints and not 
 for sprints. The international teams play even better than Barcelona, Chealsea, Man U. Real Madrid... 
 you get me, clubs. I think its a start to a great future but I just expected more for $64.
  
  Good Things:
  1. Its challenging
  2. The player info and match info are great.
  3. The 
 player movements and physics of ball and everything are great, like never before.
  4. Sound and graphics are great.
  5. Online is better than ever.
  6. Chilenas, bicycle kicks, 
 lobs, headers, passes look more real than ever, I love this and I'm still amazed.
  
  Not so good:
  1. Expensive for having less than the regular XBOX version.
  2. Players looked 
 better in Fifa World Cup 2006.
  3. The Right Analog Stick is not for faints and moves... that sucks!
  4. No MLS, or Rest of world... 
 The XBOX Version has more leagues.
  5. Less Stadiums than the old gen consoles.
  
  But I love Fifa and I can live with it cuz it's still a great game, I will just miss a couple of 
 things.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Biggus1972
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 3, 2006 7:30 am PT
Review:  This is the best football game out there on the xbox 360!!!!! The graphics are great when playing 
 the game. The movement of the players and is the most realistic yet. The matches are also tense 
 exciting affairs and you need to work hard to score and you do in many various ways. The number 
 of leagues is shorter but I only play England or Spanish anyway so I have no issues with this!!!
 
  I have Pro Evo 6 too but this is just a stripped down version of the PS2 version. The graphics 
 are not realy enhanced over it if you use a component pS2 connection. Poor show from Konami and 
 EA for me have grabbed the title this year by far!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ledgewood
Rating: 7.2
Date: Nov 2, 2006 7:42 am PT
Review:  The gameplay is actually a great base for the future of this series. The high cost is a bit painful 
 for a game in progress, but it is still fun to play. Here are my main points (good and bad) :
  
  1. The problems other people seem to be having with the game, I have not. I have not noticed 
 too many bookings and the keepers are not way too good. The gameplay is obviously not perfect, 
 but it's not as bad as others have said. 2. The ball physics finally, honestly, truthfully are 
 crazy good this time. The way the ball moves is amazing.
  
  3. Something I haven't seen mentioned enough is the customization of formations and tactics. I've 
 been waiting for this type of thing for a long time from FIFA. You can create a formation and place 
 players in any single spot on the pitch, as well as what they each should do on offense and defense. 
 It's AMAZING and fun. I've already spent hours on tactics and strategy, something that many gamers 
 may not do. 4. I think the most annoying thing to me is the net animation. Or, I guess, lack thereof. 
 Sometimes, I can't tell if I've scored a goal. This is also because of the announcers, but it takes 
 a little away from my personal celebrations as soon as the ball hits the back of the net. 5. The 
 player attributes and traits are also great. Again, this adds to the strategy and fun of the managing 
 game. Along with this is the edit/create a player. Pretty solid and many options. My ratings are 
 pretty obvious. The tilt is because of the fun I've already had managing formations and what I 
 foresee as a tactical battle between me and my friends. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lokiknight
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 2, 2006 5:37 am PT
Review:  AWSOME FEATURES, GREAT GRAPHICS! GAMEPLAY IS FUN.... THIS COMING FROM A WINNING ELEVEN FAN..... 
 GREAT OVERALL EXPERIENCE ON THIS NEW FIFA07. MANAGER MODE IS COMPLETE AND THE ONLINE PLAY IS PERFECT, 
 NO LAG OR ANYTHING THAT CAN RUIN THE EXPERIENCE. THIS GAME WA WORKED ON AND WE CAN SEE THE DIFFERENCE 
 BETWEEN THE LAST VERSION AND THIS ONE, THE BALL MOVES NORMALY AND MAKES IT FEEL MORE REALISTIC. 
 GOALIES SAVE THE BALL IN MANY DIFFERENT WAYS, BALLS GET DEFLECTED AND YOU NEVER KNOW WHEN THE SHOT 
 WILL GO IN. PLAYER CREATION IS NICELY DONE, YOU HAVE TO WORK TO MAKE HIM BETTER. GOOD CHANGE FROM 
 HAVING RIGHT AWAY A PLAYER THAT WILL DOMINATE THE GAME. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: henryfreeman
Rating: 8.4
Date: Nov 2, 2006 2:35 am PT
Review:  Great game:
  1) It looks fantastic, the best looking football game to date.
  2) Finally realistic ball physics, way overdue
  3) Commentry is rather good, still a few mistakes 
 but an improvement
  4) A genius solution to combat loading times, lets you play one on one with the keeper whilst your 
 game loads.
  5) Actual football updates though EA servers. Check the real life league tables and even recieve 
 results through radio whilst you are in the menu screen.
  6) Manager mode and season mode combined into one mode (Stupidly named Manager mode to confuse 
 you)
  7) Records all events in a match in a stats page at the end of the match showing stuff like where 
 the ball was for most of the game and where fouls were committed.
  8) The brilliant online one on one games with your mates
  9) You now actually need skill to conduct 
 skills.
  10) Licenced teams and Player names
  
  Not so great:
  
  1) When the ball is loose the game will auto select one of your players to control. So often it 
 will select players MILES AWAY FROM THE BALL!!!! I have actually been running towards the ball 
 only to have the game select a player on the other side of the screen!
  2) Once you've played two matches you will have seen all the little cut scenes the game has to 
 offer.
  3) You can have a player have his leg broken, when you choose to sub him he will happily jog of 
 the pitch. where are the stretchers?
  4) You combine the Manager game with the Playing game, fine. Why call it Manager Mode? You buy 
 Fifa games for the season mode, I was terrified at the thought that the game had no season mode.
 
  5) Its a bit too difficult to takle now. But better that than too easy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bradas
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 2, 2006 12:16 am PT
Review:  Detailed review:
  
  Graphics
  First off, FIFA's best aspect, the graphics. One word, AWESOME! seriously, they are so crisp and 
 amazing, one of the best looking games i have ever played. Well football games
  
  In Game Graphics
  Brilliant, they are very, very detailed. Players look real, pitch is amazing. 
 Also the stadiums are really good, although there is a lack of them
  
  Cut-Scene Graphics
  Astonishing, like i said, one of the best looking games on the 360 as of 
 yet!
  
  Gameplay
  Best FIFA game yet! the gameplay is awesome! Although it is a bit sluggish at times, you really 
 get a life like feeling withing the game. Passing is more real, and the best inclusion to the 360 
 version is the player reactions, no longer are they dragged towards the ball. You control Everything 
 the players do
  
  Passing
  Passes are harder to control this year, you have to physically direct the ball now. Also it travels 
 slower, giving the game a life like feel.
  
  Shooting
  Very hard to conquer! Close shots are harder to score now (goalkeepers have improved, a lot) , whilst 
 the longer shots are even harder to score. A nice new feature is the 'Finesse Shot'', By clicking 
 RB whilst shooting, it increases the accuracy and control of the shot. Good for One on Ones with 
 goalkeepers.
  
  AI Improvements
  Holy crap its hard to win games on this years FIFA. I find this REALLY good, as it is WAY more 
 life like, as you aren't guaranteed to win every game. The computer team usually scores and their 
 players tend to slide tackle more often (and get sent off) .
  The goalkeepers seem to be invincible too. The computers Goalie is class, yours is dodgy.
  
 
  Sounds
  The commentary is brilliant! very detailed words, and there is a stadium announcer when you score. 
 For example, if Craig Bellamy scores in the 65th minute, you will hear ''Goalscorer in the 65th 
 minute, Craaaig Bellamy''...
  The soundtrack is Awesome! Seriously i think i am downloading about 10 of the songs at this moment 
 lol!
  
  Extras
  Before every game, instead of a blank loading screen, you can be Ronaldihno (can be changed) and 
 take shots against a goalkeeper, this is sooooo addictive! i spend around 5 minutes playing it 
 lmao!
  In this extra you can see the detailed graphics and all the new player updates (reactions, shooting 
 techniques etc.) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WeRo_CoOl
Rating: 5.5
Date: Nov 1, 2006 8:38 pm PT
Review:  EA must take mopre time to perfect the game!! The New Engine is not cool at all. The players move 
 very slowly, it feels very heavy to move a player and the player doesnt respond to they way you 
 want it to move. They should have sticked to the old engine. They take too much time on graphics 
 and they dont phocus on what we really want! Leagues, and alot of content. EA Sports has ruined 
 it again!
  I just hope they correct this issue in FIFA 08!!
  
  XX XX XX XX XX XX XX XX XX XX XX XX XX XX XX XX XX XX XX XX XX XX XX XX XX XX XX XX XX XX XX XX 
 XX XX XX XX XX XX XX XX XX XX XX XX XX XX XX XX XX XX XX XX XX XX XX XX XX XX XX XX XX XX XX XX 
 XX XX XX XX XX XX XX XX XX XX XX XX XX XX XX XX XX XX XX XX XX XX XX XX XX XX XX XX XX XX XX XX 
 XX XX XX XX XX XX XX XX XX XX XX XX XX XX XX XX XX XX XX XX XX XX XX XX XX XX XX XX XX XX XX XX 
 XX XX XX XX XX XX XX XX XX XX XX XX XX XX XX XX 
::::::

::::::
UserName: z075056
Rating: 1
Date: Nov 1, 2006 1:09 pm PT
Review:  60 dollars and the game has no features. Just like NHL 07 EA is only worried about their new things 
 and always screw up the rest of the game. Crap Crap crap. They seriously do not know whow to make 
 a game. Why does the xbox version have more then the 360 version. Why are the players stupid and 
 run into each other and freeze. Why are there no more trick stick things. Why in the world does 
 this game play like crap with new features. I am so sick of EA and their junk. They need to step 
 it up and make a good game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cirus2
Rating: 6.7
Date: Nov 1, 2006 11:36 am PT
Review:  a bit dissapointed sat there browsing through the menu's looking for trournament or start a season 
 but there wasnt any just kick off lol!!!
  was thinking omg as if so basically play a game then ends start another. nit much progress and 
 will get bored real quick. thank god theres a challenge mode or otherwise a useless purchase.
 
  
  theres always 1 great thing about xbox 360 titles is the multiplayer modes, most cases real good 
 and thisis no exception.
  
  if you play on your own and have no internet connection then get PES6 but if u have friends and 
 broadband connection then worthy purchase. if i never had 5 mates who have this game n play over 
 xbox live then i would of binned it but over all an unfinished product, seems 60% complete
  
  how does a game with FIFA Liecences galore have no FA CUP.,. Champs league.. even a premiership 
 season.. just hope a FREE update on xbox live.
  
  atm PC version &gt; xbox 360 I use my 360 pad for pc and its real fun iv mastered skills like rainbow 
 kicks and curlin freekicks but this dont av any ( gay as fuk : ( ) u cant seem to bend ur freekicks 
 just goes straight so proper hard to even try n score which proper sucks.
  
  this game should put a nail on the coffin about the good gfx dont make a good game.
  
  1 other 
 thing the commentry dont seem to have been tested, its sound muffled and low as its kicking off 
 and u need to goto options n tweak sound settings to get best out of it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rockfletch3000
Rating: 6.8
Date: Nov 1, 2006 10:48 am PT
Review:  This game would've been tonnes better if EA just payed attention to some little details, that were 
 obviously over shadowed by the emphesis and time EA has taken on the visuals...
  
  I'm talking about things like the fact that your player is temporarily stunned when he's tackled, 
 which means you can't go straight after the ball again with that player until he's recovered!.. Totaly 
 clumsy...
  
  Also, there's no weather conition options, it's only ever sunny... You've only got 'manager mode' 
 and 'kick off'... The delay upon pressing pass or shoot is also really poor... This means you've 
 gotta press shoot two seconds before you get to where you ACTUALLY want the controled layer to 
 strike, otherwise you'll run straight into the keeper... It's just not enough attention to detail, 
 and it makes for a frustratingly sticky, heavy robotic football experience. I think the graphics 
 are superb, the presentation is also of a very high standard, but it seems like the gameplay is 
 unfinished to me. I almost get the feeling this is a test 'next gen' version to get feedback for 
 the PS3 version.. This is a real shame.
  
  Either way, i wish i'd bought Pro Evo, at least that's meant to still play well even if it looks 
 a bit rubbish. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Keith4RFC17
Rating: 8.7
Date: Nov 1, 2006 8:16 am PT
Review:  Their is absolutley nothing wrong with this game dont believe fanboys of PES first of all they 
 have no life and no time on their hands if they can write a review to move you away from Fifa..
 
  First of all the graphics are good 10/10 no doubts about that but they usually always are good.
 
  The gameplay is more better now that they have made the football players more faster and the passess 
 feel more real because they're not always dead accurate meaning its easier for the player to intercept 
 the ball the manager mode is what i really like about Fifa its just so fun they have made the income 
 of cash more fun to controll obviously the online league is what makes this game stand out compare 
 to PES not to forget its half decent sound track. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: parksey78
Rating: 8.2
Date: Nov 1, 2006 6:44 am PT
Review:  FIFA 07 has been one of the most eagerly anticipated games on the 360 for me since I've owned the 
 console. I'd tried not to get too involved in the forum talk on here (and elsewhere) about what 
 was going to be different, what would be in the game, what wouldn't, etc, so it wouldn't unreasonably 
 cloud my judgement before I'd even had chance to play it... I'll be honest though, I've always 
 been a FIFA fan since I had the original game on the PC, and have owned subsequent versions of 
 the game on various formats ever since. I'm not gonna draw any unnecessary comparisons to Pro Evo 
 either, as its not worth it. The whole FIFA vs. Pro Evo debate has been raging for as long as time 
 itself, and I just can't be bothered with it any more.
  
  Right, so what it's like then? As usual with FIFA, on any format, you appreciate the slickness 
 and presentation of the game right from the start, and there's a decent soundtrack featuring a 
 whole host of bands from around the world. I particularly like the addition of the Arena mode where 
 you get to knock the ball about one-on-one with the keeper whilst you're not otherwise doing anything.
 
  
  Mode-wise, you've got the usual Kick-Off/Exhibition mode to quickly pit two teams against each 
 other, nothing unusual there. There's then the more involved Manager mode where you set out on 
 a FIVE year managerial career with a team of your choice. There's no option, as far as I've found, 
 to just play through one complete season (not in Manager mode) with a team from any of the leagues. 
 Not a great shame for me personally, but I can see others might be put off by this.
  
  Manager mode in itself is reasonably involved, you're responsible for various aspects of the club, 
 finances, scouting, transfers, player development, etc. Its nowhere near as deep as a specific 
 football management sim, but then its not meant to be, its just meant to add a bit more interest 
 when you're not actually playing games.
  
  Now onto the leagues... anyone reading this will likely have spent some time browsing other people's 
 reviews or this site's own FIFA 07 forum so may be well aware of this already... Unfortunately, 
 there are only six leagues in the game, which are the top leagues from England, France, Spain, 
 Germany, Italy (plus Juventus in a World League) and, oddly, Mexico (I guess FIFA must be as popular 
 a title in Mexico as it is in Europe...) . Naturally this was disappointing for me as I'm a Southampton 
 fan and DO like to play as my team throughout the Manager mode, but now can't because there's no 
 lower league clubs in the game... I haven't got this far yet, but it would be interesting to see 
 how things like the English cup competitions are dealt with if there's no-one but the Premiership 
 teams in the game, and also what happens if you finish in the bottom three and end up getting relegated...
 
  
  In addition to this you've got pretty much all the International teams from this year's World Cup 
 Finals although some, Holland and Czech Republic I've so far noticed, don't feature properly licensed 
 player names. :- ( What makes this even more odd though is that certain players from those teams 
 are otherwise properly licensed when playing for their respective club teams, Ruud Van Nisteldiver 
 or Milan Baros for instance... For me, both of these points are a bit of step backwards, although 
 it doesn't effect the overall gaming experience too much.
  
  Gameplay wise, its pretty much the usual FIFA experience with a few tweaks here and there. When 
 played on Amateur or Semi Pro modes its unrealistically easy. You can still score 5 or more goals 
 against apparently difficult opposition, and the computer-controlled defenders/keepers are really 
 useless too. However, ramp the difficulty up to Professional level and the game is transformed. 
 It now becomes a much more involved and rewarding affair, on a par with any game of Pro Evo, and 
 scoring a good goal feels or the more satisfying. In addition to this your computer controlled 
 players now seem to be a bit more proactive when challenging opposing players, which is nice. I 
 haven't tried it in World Class yet but I'm sure it'll be a sufficient challenge for anyone. Some 
 of the controls have changed too. There are now two switchable options for the primary game controls, 
 the Classic mode which is old-school FIFA controls for shooting and crossing, or the New mode which 
 is basically the Pro Evo controls. However, the switch player button is now the Left Trigger as 
 opposed to the A button and you can't reassign it. This took me all of about 10 minutes to get 
 used to, I can't see why others are complaining... I find it actually works better too, when defending 
 the ball, the button used to switch between players no longer passes the ball as well, so if you 
 inadvertently get possession of the ball (i. e a random interception) you don't just end up knocking 
 it straight away again like you used to as you're still trying to select another player. Bonus!
 
  
  Also missing is the stupid skill stick, Thank The Lord! I always used to hate this option when 
 playing against smart-arse players who'd just used to spin, twist and turn around all your defenders 
 before going on to score. Don't get me wrong, tricks have their place and ARE still in the game, 
 its just it now requires a Tekken-style sequence of button presses to activate tricks, rather than 
 just tapping the right stick. The right stick is still used in the game, but now it just knocks 
 the ball on when sprinting, and is also used to execute quick changes of directions. For me it 
 results in a much more natural, realistic game of football. As a quick note you'll also find you 
 can no longer play the entire game with the sprint button held down (another bonus) as players 
 become fatigued a lot more quickly and choosing the right subs becomes all the more important.
 
  
  Graphically, particularly on a decent High-Def TV, this game looks unreal, and you'd almost struggle 
 at times to spot the difference between watching a game of FIFA and watching a real game on TV. 
 Interestingly, the animations during cut-scenes aren't so good, but its not the end of the world 
 as the rest of it looks so great. Sound-wise the game is also good, the commentary lives up to 
 its usual high standards, with Messrs Tyldesley and Gray providing analysis as usual. There are 
 a lot more club and player-specific commentary too, although these do become a bit repetitive the 
 more games you play, pretty much every time I've played as England or Chelsea I've heard the same 
 point about Ashley Cole now being a much better winger than he was when joined the club... There's 
 also enhanced crowd and general stadium noise too, I particularly like it when you score a goal 
 and the stadium announcer calls out the name of the scorer and you get a huge cheer. Other announcements 
 about things like missing train tickets are also quite amusing too.
  
  Just a final brief note on the Multiplayer/Live experience too. The Lounge mode has been introduced 
 to the 360 for offline multiplayer games and, although it does have the various power-ups, its 
 lost some of the functionality that other versions have had e. g. I can't seem to find a way to 
 change the team you're playing as without quitting the whole session and restarting another (therefore 
 losing all the previous stats) . I've only played a handful of games on Live so far, but it seems 
 easy enough to find opponents to play a ranked match with and I've only had one muppet drop out 
 because I was beating him... there is also no lag whatsoever when playing online (with 2 players 
 at least) , which is very welcome indeed. There are no apparent Interactive Leagues though, maybe 
 I've not seen it as its buried within half a dozen sub menus, but I can't imagine for a minute 
 that EA Sports would make it so difficult to find given the potential that such a feature has. 
 Maybe its something that'll be dealt with via a forthcoming patch over Live, who knows?
  
  So, that's pretty much it. Going back to the age-old FIFA/Pro Evo debate, this game WILL appeal 
 to fans of previous FIFAs so rest assured there, and given some of the criticism I've heard of 
 Pro Evo 6 not delivering a proper next-gen experience, it may even tempt some die-hard Pro Evo 
 fans over to the dark side! Ultimately though, it is still the same old FIFA and doesn't offer 
 much in the way of any substantially new features, but then isn't it the same with FIFA every year?
 
  
  Ok, its still compromised in some areas (I guess as a result of the game having to be rushed to 
 market in order to coincide with the release of Pro Evo) but as a whole I think its a decent effort, 
 and a good platform from which EA can build a decent in-depth 360 football game with FIFA 08! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: indi_
Rating: 3.8
Date: Oct 31, 2006 3:51 pm PT
Review:  First off, I had the highest hopes and expectations ever for this game. Been playing FIFA from 
 97 and up to today and this is, I'm afraid, the worst FIFA ever. Gameplay and feel has been rewritten 
 from scratch (to the better) , rendering is as beatiful as ever and so is the presentation. So what 
 is wrong then?
  
  Number one disappointment is this: I have friends, friends have 360's, friends like to play with 
 eachother. Several other 360 titles have Online Multiplayer (supporting more then 1vs1) but for 
 some reason this cannot be done with FIFA 07. Only 4 on 1 360 vs 4 on 1 other 360, no matchmaking 
 like 2 Live friends vs 3 other Live Friends is possible.
  
  Number two disappointment is the change of keyset. FIFA has forever been known for having a real 
 safe-tackle key (B-button) and this had to go this year. The B-button has gotten a supportive pressure 
 function instead, while the A button is a primary (and really not working) safe-pressure (your 
 player runs the straighest path to the opponent with the ball and does nothing, no tackle) . The 
 most common way of tackling in 07 is to just run into the player with the ball, hoping that the 
 judge doesnt use the whistle because of a bad tackle.
  
  Number three disappointment is how you switch between the players in your team. Normally you would 
 think that if you push the Change Player-key you would get player with the best change to break 
 a run. But no, this year EA decides that we ALWAYS would get the player 10 feet BEHIND the running 
 ballholding player. You have to push the Change-button atleast 3 times EVERY time you want to change 
 to a more defensive player.
  
  And in general everyone seems to be missing the Online League features that every other game has, 
 matchmaking a whole season or cup with your friends is NOT in 07 (not to mention the promised Interactive 
 League feature) .
  
  All in all, this game is good in terms of gameplay feel (besides stupid/idiotic defenders and player 
 switching) , the new shooting mechanics works excellent, beatiful graphics and excellent sound and 
 extremely good netcode (still havent disconnected midgame, 30&lt; games) .
  
  Would I recommend it? Absolutely NOT. This is a extremely incomplete product that never should 
 have gone to manufacturing, leagues are undone, internal playtesting probably done by monkeys (referring 
 to the playerswitching that is a utter failure) and the total lack of listening to the community 
 for their demands.
  
  Sorry EA Sports, this has to go as a failure. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kim_nielsen
Rating: 8.8
Date: Oct 31, 2006 4:48 am PT
Review:  It's a great game and it might bee the best FIFA from EA-Sports..
  
  I'm a BIG fan I got the games from the late 90' and all the way to this year, I got the game for 
 my X360, and the first thing I notice, is that the SAS-League is gone, I'm from Denmark, now i 
 can see that the PS2 and PC has all the leagues, it's only the Xbox and X360, that dos'nt. But 
 I started my manager career in Real Madrid, it's great with the E-mails you get and what's best 
 for the team and my career to say, and I almost forget that there are missing something, but I 
 did'nt, and the game is still great.
  
  All the other stuff this new game has, makes up for that little big thing, there are missing.
 
  
  The great graphic and movement. A whole new world of FIFA. It's lot of fun and as a fan it's the 
 best. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GQKamen
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 31, 2006 2:16 am PT
Review:  This plays awsome as well as how it looks.... great game all around. All you haters.... if u rate 
 this less than 7.5 ur just haters:) This game is meant to be harder so it can be more realistic. 
 It plays like how it should. No easy goals..... no easy moves. Just look at the game..... it looks 
 and plays next gen:) Pro evo for the ones talking about it doesnt have the graphics or the realism 
 that this game has. Play this game.... i mean really play it and ull see what i mean. By 2008 this 
 game will be absolutely unbelievable. Go FIFA keep up the good work EA. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marcaustin
Rating: 5.2
Date: Oct 30, 2006 5:59 pm PT
Review:  I feel FIFA have compromised game-play for the graphics, fair enough graphics are amazing, there 
 is so much more they could have worked on to make this fair game in to an amazing 1! The game-play 
 is poor the tackling they have made worse all it is, is bump and shove! The shooting is bad how 
 precise do your shot's have too be for the too go in the right direction! The PS2 version is better 
 game-play and better value for money! A BIG disappointment! Hope FIFA decied to take time and get 
 all aspects of the game correct for the future as i think they may have lost a few FIFA followers 
 to PES6 this time 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sparkeh
Rating: 7.6
Date: Oct 30, 2006 4:03 pm PT
Review:  Ok well as the title suggests I believe this is a step in the right direction. I totally loved 
 this game when first picking it up and found it hard to put it back down again. One thing I was 
 really impressed with was the depth in which you can go into with the formations and tactics. I 
 think that adds a real sense of control on you're team and how they play out. FIFA have slowly 
 been improving their games and this again is an improvement. Not a very large one however. They 
 have added a really cool 'mess around' mode where you have a single player take on the goalkeeper 
 within a half-pitch boundry. There you can basically just mess around and generally get a feel 
 for how the players move and what shooting is like. I thought making this pop-up in replacement 
 of a loading screen is ingenious and is bound to impress a lot of people around the world.
  
  However...
  
  FIFA have made a terrible mistake with this game and many others. The main 
 mistake and main thing I have heard people complaining about is the fact that they have somewhat 
 decided not to bother with a lot of the leagues they had. In fact they only have 6 or 7 leagues 
 in the game. This makes the game seem somewhat shallow relentless of how many features they add. 
 It is a shame that you can no longer choose a team that would be in division 2 and bring them to 
 glory in the premiership or alike in other leagues. Nope, instead you can only choose teams out 
 of major european leagues. There is the addition of the International 'league' but I would have 
 much preferred they left that to the world cup and euro games and left the other 'minor' leagues 
 in. By leaving the 'minnows' out they have taken away the option to scout out some decent players 
 who are in lower division teams which somewhat limits you to buying players from other top clubs 
 and scouting (which I was never really a huge fan of) . Another HUGE mistake is the fact that even 
 though FIFA are the major football governing body they seem to have the rules of the game in a 
 complete and utter sham. The offside is ridiculous and they have practically outruled sliding tackles. 
 I have played approximately 20 games and out of thos 20 I have recieved about 15 straight red cards. 
 All comming from sliding tackles. The most sufficient way to 'tackle' someone in game now is to 
 simply barge into them, thus forcing them to slow down and you are off, man free and with the ball. 
 Anyone who knows their football knows that, that is an illegal move. The offside is again not 100% 
 and I have even seen goalkeepers pick the ball up outside of their box.
  
  One thing I must say is that the ball movement is fantastic and pretty much as realistic as you 
 can get. (I've actually scored a goal just by 'accidently' running in front of their keeper) . It 
 is good fun to pass the ball around on this game and that seems the best way to play. By continually 
 passing the ball around. However, tackling is almost impossible unless of course you use the 'barge' 
 maneuver. This works for both you and the computer so it is very easy to just sprint past players 
 which makes the game dull at parts. The AI is decent enough and they can really pressure you at 
 times. Corners and free kicks have now become an art. In such a way that they are pretty impossible 
 to score from. There is no way in telling where you are kicking the ball until you have actually 
 kicked it. They have removed the 'pivot' that was present in previous FIFA's for free kicks so 
 you can only aim horizontally now and judge the height by the power of your kick.
  
  All in all this game could have been a lot better. It probably has more disappointing moments than 
 it has memorable or impressive. However I do think it is the best in the series. FIFA are heading 
 in the right direction for their next installment. All being that they read up the rules of the 
 game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 2tfrut
Rating: 4.2
Date: Oct 30, 2006 1:35 pm PT
Review:  loaded game ronagoofy erm ok i am impressed, big screen following my movements... erm ok i aimed 
 at the top corner...... ok rugby i hit the roof... oops ,now the game menu right manager mode erm 
 wheres league2 or league 1 or even the ffffin championship, whats the point now i is confused, erm 
 ea we like the lower leagues and taking the likes of boston and torquay to the champions league 
 .its like playing fifa on the psp  crowd looks dire like better 
 on the ps2 version........ i should know i bought that while waiting for this rubbish, wheres the 
 other half of the game gone, ps2 which is near its end has the better game why?????????? we want 
 more than this the game should only be &pound;20.00 i feel ripped of, i was so full of awe with 
 my 360 when i got elder scrolls, iwas looking forward to fifa but once again, ea are into teasing 
 you and not delivering but happy to sell you a sub next gen game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wooddc
Rating: 6.2
Date: Nov 1, 2006 3:13 am PT
Review:  They have just built a big game demo really.. theres hardly any features whatsoever to this game 
 ill give it to you in pro's and con's
  
  Pro's:
  
  Good graphics
  
  Good ball physics and no more animations
  
  Better control and better AI
  
  Does have international 
 teams
  
  Better goal keepers
  
  Con's:
  
  No weather effects - Constant sunshine
  
  Only 6 leagues
  
  No skills.. only minor skills
  
  In manager mode there is no competitions 
 there is only a premiership, you dont play champions league matches, ECC cup, Charity shield, FA 
 cup etc..
  
  The money on 360 version is in points rather than &pound; s or $s 
  
  Refferee is WAY to harsh! - Calls on clean tackles when you get the ball sometimes, and gives you 
 a red card straight away on sliding tackles if ****
  
  No interactive leagues online (can on PS2 version)
  
  No cups or tournaments to play apart 
 from league matches Freekicks are boring - Cant curl the ball or do anything special, you can finesse 
 shoot from freekicks but thats all (can on PS2 version)
  
  Corners are the same just a boot in the area no curling etc (can on PS2 version)
  
  You cant 
 change your Freekick taker or corner whilst playing the game (can on PS2 version)
  
  Only about 6 different types of pitches even though theres like 70 different stadium grounds.
 
  
  I think they recorded the commentators when they just woke up since they dont seem as lively as 
 the older games they dont put no effort into the game when you score there like ... yea great goal 
 no screaming like they do on TV.
  
  Ref calls way to much fouls its so easy to foul a play when you did a clean tackle and got the 
 ball which is stupid, plus sliding tackle usually ends up in a instant yellow or red card even 
 if you got the ball.. So REALLY amature ref
  
  As you can see there is alot more Cons than Pros unless you want a basic football game with great 
 graphics, ball physics and a bit better AI then i suggest going for the PS2 version or current 
 gen version since it does have alot more features.
  
  Ive noticed tons of people submitting new reviews on this game AFTER theyve played it for a certain 
 length of time or after they have tried current generation and gave it a MUCH worse score i was 
 trying to prove that point in the first place but no one listened until they all found out thereselves.
 
  
  Ive had people not recommending my review rather than recommending it but i cant understand why, 
 because all i am doing is speaking the truth? I aint saying its good or bad im just saying what 
 it has and what it doesnt you cant disagree with the truth. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wayne2k7
Rating: 8.9
Date: Oct 28, 2006 11:40 am PT
Review:  Now this is a very healthy addition to all the Fifa fans out there. The 360 verion looks and plays 
 better than any other Fifa game around.
  The graphics have been touched up a notch and looks almost visually perfect on a good HD TV.
 
  The gameplay is also much improved from the last installment. It has more of a realistic feel 
 and the movement of the players is top notch
  The soundtrack isn't exactly fantastic i have to admitt but its still ok in my books.
  The achievements 
 i feel are a little far fetched. Some seem almost impossible to achieve!
  All in all a very enjoyable game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shikaku9
Rating: 6.4
Date: Oct 28, 2006 10:06 am PT
Review:  I will try to be concise in this review, it's my honest opinion after many hours of play and fiddling 
 with all the settings and modes......
  
  PROS
  1) Graphics are superb (bar one or two things, see CONS) with the stadiums and kits all up to date, 
 menu is clear and crisp.
  2) Animation is accurate and smooth for the most part. Players actively watch their suroundings.
 
  3) Good choice in music and crowd effects are great. Scoring at home creates the loudest roar 
 you'l ever hear!
  4) It's FIFA = it's official and licensed.
  5) Gameplay has been tweaked, the new dead ball posibilities open the play up a bit and defense 
 is a little harder to get through now.
  6) Online options are great, you can update the player rosters when the transfer window opens, 
 keeping everything up-to-date, almost no lag on multiplayer, 4 Vs 4.
  
  CONS
  1) Despite graphics being amazing, a few troubles still linger. Players look plastic and far too 
 shiny (it doesn't look like sweat, EA!) . EA got excited saying that players actually get muddy 
 in games - they don't. They are clean in the intro movies but the actual player models are already 
 dirty, even substitues when they come on (me being picky) ! Cutscenes are STILL choppy. No Ref or 
 Linesmen on the pitch - unrealistic.
  2) Commentary is boring, sounds like they just don't care.
  3) The skll stick has been replaced 
 with what appears to just cause your player to jerk the ball miles in whatever direction you press, 
 you'l always lose possession doing this.
  4) Ref's have caught the old PES 5 bug - they will give fouls for almost EVERYTHING. Any foul from 
 a slide tackle has a 75% chance in ending up in a red card, even if it wasn't from behind.
  5) ONLY 6 LEAGUES........ and Juventus.
  6) Players seem to 'bounce' off eachother and just stop 
 quite a lot instead of jumping in for the ball. AI is rubbish, players 2 feet from the ball will 
 be more interested in running back to their positions than going for the ball. Passing is nearly 
 never accurate, even with assist turned off.
  7) No tournament mode, only career, challenge, online and kick-off.
  
  CONCLUSION
  GREAT 
 - graphics
  POOR - gameplay and content/features
  Looks like EA spent so long getting the graphics and animations right with this new build, they 
 forgot to perfect the gameplay and as such the game looks good but feels rushed and incomplete. 
 The lack of leagues is an insult to FIFA fans. The game should have been held back, I'd much rather 
 it was late out and completed than on time and half-finished. FIFA fans should feel disappointed 
 with this, anyone who absolutely MUST have FIFA and not PES should stick to the PS2 version and 
 wait another year. I, a long-term FIFA lover of many... many years, will now be taking this back 
 and getting PES6. It's graphics aren't as great, it's not official, but it's a much better game 
 to play and better than FIFA this year. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: paulo111
Rating: 9.2
Date: Oct 28, 2006 5:53 am PT
Review:  FIFA 07 is easily the best football game i have ever played! They have made graphics and gameplay 
 fantastic. The players look realistic and move like the real thing. Pro Evo has finally got some 
 real competition. There are a lot of refereeing decisions that are a bit dodgy but all round this 
 is one great game! I have always been a big fan of the FIFA series as it is a little bit easier 
 and more fun to play and this game did not dissappoint me. One of the best things about the FIFA 
 games is that the kits look real. Buy this game now! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MyCatSmells
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 28, 2006 5:14 am PT
Review:  Awsome. Finally fifa team managed to pull it together.
  
  following a dissapointing pro evo product i'm happy that there's now a decent footy game on the 
 xbox.
  
  my only complaints are the menus are dark and slightly confusing sometimes, and that manager mode 
 seems a little flat
  
  control is now much better, and although the new skill system takes a little getting used (if you're 
 stuck in the freestyle stick ways) to it's actually amazingly satisfying and easy to turn and dummy 
 your opposition
  
  sound and graphics are pretty much standard for fifa, but seem to be a lot better than world cup 
 (no more shiny faces and managers who's arms meet at their waist) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shadystxxx
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 27, 2006 12:00 pm PT
Review:  After playing for five mins you realise the new ball physics were not just another EA marketing 
 ploy.
  They really do offer up some great realistic moments.
  
  Feeling the weight behind each pass feels great after turning down passing assistance you can put 
 the ball anywhere you want at first its much more difficult you will give the ball away allot more 
 but after a few games you get used to it and start spraying some defence splitting passes.
  
  Players movements are the best seen in any football game turning and dropping the shoulder 
 really happens and with the ball not being stuck to the foot anything can happen leading to some 
 unpredictable gameplay,
  Unlike other fifa games, where there were really a handful of goals, playing on live you would 
 see the same goals over and over again. Fifa 07 feels very unpredictable and I have not seen the 
 same goal twice in over eight hours of gameplay.
  
  Fifa 07 really cuts out them cheap players on live with there one trick pony moves like constantly 
 running down the wing and crossing over and over again never mixing it up,
  This is still possible but if you do this over and over 95% of the time the defender will head 
 it away you really have to play some good build up play passing and moving holding down LT to trigger 
 the run.
  Looking for players that have some space to work with as just blindly playing it forward will result 
 in the possession being stolen and a counter attack on its way.
  
  Goalkeepers are much smarter in 07 they dont run out on there own allowing a chip shot to score 
 every time things like that are a rare occasion in real life and it is now the same on 07.
  
  Shooting is much more difficult infact allot more partly because you need to time the power, 
 weight and height of the shoot along with the players position .And plus the goalies are much tougher 
 to beat.
  
  Tackling is one of the only bad points some times its ok but you tend to bump into players allot 
 leaving them stunned for a second making tackling a bit annoying but its not a major problem.
 
  
  There are a lot of different game modes on 07 all the usual suspects are here manager mode, friendlys 
 etc
  
  One big disappointment is no interactive leagues on the 360 version which is annoying I dont understand 
 why the next gen games always seem to miss features the current gen has.
  
  Graphics are lovely the best looking football game ever, some players look nothing like there real 
 life counter-parts but the top players all look very life-like there does tend to be a plastic 
 look to them with weird looking eyes on some players.
  
  I played a few games on xbox live which worked really well no lag at all and the gameplay does 
 not change at all from the single player game.
  
  All in all Fifa 07 for the xbox 360 is the best fifa yet and a great football game allround.
 
  
  It seems EA and konmai have switched places this year with allot of work being put into fifa and 
 pro evo seems to be a lazy port still pro evo has amazing gameplay I played it yesterday for around 
 six hours at my friends its still the same great football game but you really expect allot more 
 from a next gen game which pro evo isnt , and fifa is. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JackJudge
Rating: 9.2
Date: Oct 27, 2006 11:50 am PT
Review:  Being an avid PES fan for the last few years something extraordinary must have happened in the 
 EA labs for them to change my mind. I actually hated FIFA up until this year and detested everything 
 about it. Anyway, when the demo was released I thought I'd download it in hope it would be somewhere 
 as good as the World Cup Game and was pleasantly surprised and eventually found myself playing 
 the demo for about 3 hours straight. I bought the game yesterday and am very impressed, I can't 
 compare it to previous versions and talk about new things etc but I must say it's thoroughly next 
 gen - the graphics are astonishing and the game is just so playable. Too much of the focus on many 
 forums has been about the lack of teams, fortunately I don't care about this as the only alternative 
 game in Pro Evo also has a distinct lack of teams so it's nothing new to me. My only criticism 
 of the game is that it's crashed on me 3 times today after I've pressed start on the arena screen 
 before the match. Bah. Oh and Andy Gray + Martin Tyler as the commentators make it even more amazing. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wonderboy_46
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 27, 2006 9:25 am PT
Review:  For many many years EA Sports' FIFA series was by far and away the top football game but then Konami 
 came and stole the crown with the International Superstar Soccer series which would later become 
 known as Pro Evolution Soccer. Now though, EA have finally taken the title back using the power 
 of Xbox 360.
  
  Three words sum up where this has been achieved, NEW PHYSICS ENGINE. The ball physics, which have 
 for so long been a major problem with FIFA, are now incredible. The ball ricochets and spins in 
 very realistic fashion and its no-longer possible to score easily from ridiculous distances. Other 
 minor changes (admittedly borrowed from Pro Evo) , such as analogue passing on the A button, make 
 the game play a much more enjoyable game of football.
  
  The graphics are by far and away better than the 360 version of Pro Evolution Soccer 6. In FIFA 
 shirts ripple, sweat glistens on players' faces and boots sink into grass where you can see each 
 blade.
  
  Online the game is very enjoyable to play and the live, real-world football news is a brilliant 
 idea and further reduces the gap between the game world and the real world of football.
  
  The best new feature in the game is the arena mode. This is where instead of a loading screen you 
 control one player in a one on one situation with a goalkeeper while the game loads! This means 
 you never stop playing and its an incredible amount of fun. You can also choose which player you 
 control in this environment. The default player is Ronaldinho (although I have it set to Manchester 
 United's Ryan Giggs) .
  
  The only disappointment in this version is that there are less leagues and modes than in the current-gen 
 version of the game, largely due to disk space being dominated by hi-def visuals and the new physics 
 engine and animations.
  
  Best footy game ever? Not quite. Best footy game this year? Definitely. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: adrian7hall
Rating: 6.8
Date: Nov 6, 2006 2:13 pm PT
Review:  This message will be brief, as I previously reviewed this game and thought it was good enough for 
 an 8.
  
  My opinion has now changed, after 10+ hours spent on the game, and needless to say, the game is 
 going to be exchanged for WWE Smackdown when it comes out. Very dissappointed with it, a big let 
 down to all next gen football fans as well as Pro Evo was this year.
  
  All they had to do... was re-create Fifa 07 on the PS2 but with better graphics - thats all! But 
 they brought this out. Sorry to all EA fans, but its tripe. The worst part of the entire game is 
 shooting, its just dismal. You have to literally point the directional stick EXACTLY where you 
 want the shot to go, and use the power button to decide the height, but heres the thing - the player 
 itself has no left or right foot preference, and will often take blatant right foot shots with 
 their left foot, looking ridiculous.
  
  Penalty system - awful
  
  Free kick system - awful
  
  Manager mode - Wayne Rooney is worth 120,000... get the picture? 
 - awful
  
  I dont want to talk further about it, its depressing me
  
  You want a football game this summer, stick to your PS2. Buy Fifa 07 for that. I have it, and its 
 awesome. In future, I will be renting next gen games before buying, as both of them this year have 
 been awful, you hear that EA and KONAMI... AWFUL... with a capital A, and W, and F, and U, and 
 L
  
  Yours truly...
  
  a DISGUSTED fan 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ianlewis69
Rating: 8.1
Date: Oct 27, 2006 1:02 am PT
Review:  Picked up Fifa07 yesterday. First impressions of the graphics are that they have been improved 
 significantly from 2006 Fifa World Cup. The music as with most EA titles is very good. So, whats 
 it like to play, well, I think it is very good apart from some minor weaknesses. It doesn't feel 
 scripted, with previous versions, you could do the same thing over and over and score from it. 
 There seems to be more of a real life feel to it. You cant just press the pass button and it goes 
 to your player, you have to find the space first and then pass it. If you are lazy and keep just 
 pressing the pass button, you will give the ball away a lot. It makes you think more. I have also 
 found that crossing the ball and trying to score from it is more difficulty (keep in mind I have 
 only had this a day!) . Because of this real life feel, you feel rewarded when you get a goal, and 
 you can score some beauties. Picked Liverpool as the default team and when Crouchy scores, he does 
 the robot dance - bonus! The minor weakness for me is the tackling of the ball. Its more like bumping 
 into players to get the ball, rather than actually taking it off them.
  
  You get real results and news at the bottom of the screen which I think is a really good addition.
 
  
  I have always been a Fifa person over PES. I am not dissapointed with the game - apart from one 
 thing...
  
  The really dissappointing thing for me is the lack of leagues. I am a supporter of a League One 
 team and this makes the game for me, being able to play with the team you go and watch week in 
 week out. I am sure this will be sorted for Fifa08 but this for me is the biggest drawback. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
