-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Fight Night Round 3
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/xbox360/sports/fightnightround3/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Same great control mechanics found in previous Fight Night games.
 Lots of great boxing legends to test your skills against.
 Great player models on PS2 and Xbox, and amazing models on the Xbox 360.
 Gruesome sound effects make you cringe when you hear a guy get smacked in the face.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Career mode lacks structure and feels like a series of loosely related matches rather than an ongoing fight to become a champion.
 Single-player fights get repetitive because it feels like you keep facing the same opponent over and over again.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Feb 21, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.3
Critic Score: 8.5, 83 Review (s)
User Score: 8.7, 7,400 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: EA Sports
Developer: EA Chicago
Genre: Boxing
Date: Feb 20, 2006
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Fight Night Round 3 brings the same solid gameplay the series is known for, which is more than enough 
 to make it worth another trip to the ring for boxing fans. 

  Fight Night may be the only boxing game in the business, but the lack of competition certainly 
 hasn't made the champ soft. The perfectly precise and intuitive Total Punch Control mechanic, cringe-inducing 
 knockout blows, and in-depth boxer creation mode are all accounted for in the latest installment 
 in this fighting series, Fight Night Round 3. New to the series this time around are the impact 
 punches feature, a reworked career mode, and a customizable boxing style feature. Admittedly, most 
 of the improvements and updates found in Round 3 are merely incremental, but they're still enough 
 to warrant stepping into the ring for another bout.  

          Fight Night is back with a fistful of leather for your pretty little face.     

  Unsurprisingly, 
 the best parts of Fight Night Round 3 are the parts that haven't changed. The Total Punch Control 
 mechanic is back, and it works just as well as it has since the first Fight Night made boxing fun 
 again back in 2004, which means that series veterans will be able to jump right in and start throwing 
 combos with ease. If you're new to Fight Night, you might find that the controls take a bit of 
 getting used to, but once you know them, you won't want to go back to plain old button mashing. 
 The way the controls work is you move your boxer with the left analog stick and throw punches with 
 the right stick. You can throw jabs by tapping the stick forward to the right or left, depending 
 on which fist you want to use. Hooks are thrown by moving the stick in a quarter-circle motion 
 toward your opponent in either direction, and uppercuts are closer to a half-circle motion. You 
 can put extra power behind a punch by pulling the stick back even farther and "winding up" for 
 a powerful haymaker.  

  Featured for the first time in the Fight Night series are impact punches, which are variations 
 on the haymaker. The haymaker is the basic "swing for the fences" power punch, which was introduced 
 in last year's Fight Night Round 2. The flash KO punch is like an exaggerated haymaker, and it 
 instantly drains your opponent's health and primes him for a quick knockdown. The stun punch is 
 another version of the haymaker, and it initiates a sort of reverse first-person minigame where 
 you see yourself through the eyes of your opponent as you pummel him with punches. It's difficult 
 to pull off a stun punch, and even when you do, it's pointless, since the first-person mode is 
 awkward and trivial. In fact, it's difficult to pull off any of the impact punches, because the 
 windup is slow and the punch is easily countered. That's a good thing, though, because it helps 
 keep the action somewhat balanced.  

  Throwing a lot of punches is a fine strategy and simply flailing about will often win you a match, 
 but occasionally you'll have to defend yourself. You can block and parry punches using the right 
 trigger on the Xbox and Xbox 360, or the R1 button on the PlayStation 2. You can use the right 
 analog stick to determine which part of your body you want to guard. For example, if your opponent 
 shows a left hook to the head, you can throw up your right arm to parry the shot and then return 
 fire with your own left while your opponent is off guard. When you parry or block successfully, 
 you can quickly and easily make the transition from defense to offense and throw a barrage of counterpunches 
 before your opponent knows what's happening. Indeed, successfully parrying and countering is an 
 integral part of any fight. You can also lean by holding down the left trigger or the L1 button, 
 which is a good way to hold your ground while avoiding punches. Clinches have returned, so when 
 you've taken a beating and are about to go down, you can press a button to lean on your opponent 
 and regain some energy.  

  Of course, there's more to boxing than simply throwing and absorbing punches. You also have to 
 worry about maintenance. Maintaining your fighter's health is an important part of Round 3, and 
 it's all handled through the same training and cut-man minigames from the previous Fight Night 
 titles. Before a fight, you have the option to train your fighter in one of three regimens, depending 
 on which stats you want to focus on. Before you train, you can hire a trainer, and each one has 
 a specialty that will improve your results in a given parameter. The minigames consist of the heavy 
 bag, the weights, and the combo dummy. The minigames are extremely simple timing and pattern-recognition 
 exercises, and you'll never have a problem reaching the required point goal to achieve the maximum 
 benefit from the training. Once you're in the ring, though, your health concerns will be more immediate, 
 as you start stopping hard leather with your face. Between rounds, you can play a minigame to reduce 
 swelling and patch up cuts on your boxer's face. The routine has been simplified since the previous 
 game, and instead of four focus areas, you only need to worry about the left side and right side 
 of the face. A small icon appears at the bottom of the screen, and you have to move the right analog 
 stick in time with the icon to heal your fighter. If you let him get too swollen, he won't be able 
 to see to defend against incoming punches, and if he's bleeding profusely from unattended cuts, 
 the ref will stop the fight.  

          You can assign different fighting styles to your boxer, and it's fun to experiment with 
 different styles to see which one best fits your own strategy.     

  While the game still plays mostly the same way, you are given a bit more control over how you fight, 
 thanks to the inclusion of some new fighting styles, which you can assign to your fighter. When 
 creating a custom fighter, you are given the same options as in the previous games regarding your 
 boxer's physical attributes, but now you can choose his fighting style by setting a base style, 
 punch style, and block style. You can give your boxer a speed-based style to make him light on 
 his feet, a slugger punch-based style to give him extra power behind his blows, and a cross blocking-based 
 style to provide a bit more protection. There are plenty of combinations to choose from, and the 
 different styles have a significant impact on your fighting strategy. You can change your fighting 
 style between matches in career mode, and it can be fun to try out different combinations to see 
 which work best.  

  Fight Night Round 3 features career, play now, and online multiplayer modes like in the previous 
 games, and it also has a new ESPN Classic mode. Play now lets you choose your fighter, opponent, 
 and venue for a quick match. In this mode, you can pit any of the boxing legends against another, 
 regardless of weight class. If you want to see Evander Holyfield go up against Manny Pacquaio in 
 front of thousands at Madison Square Garden, you can.     

   

  The ESPN Classic mode lets you relive some of the biggest bouts in recent boxing history. You can 
 choose from classic rivalries such as Ali versus Frazier, Robinson versus Lamotta, and Gatti versus 
 Ward. Before each fight, you're treated to an all-too-brief history of the fighters and their rivalry. 
 These classic fights could be an interesting sort of interactive lesson about the history of boxing, 
 but they're severely lacking in authenticity and detail. Despite having the ESPN Classic brand 
 stamped on the game, the classic fights feel half-baked. The classic theme is ruined by modern 
 laser lights and Dodge advertisements plastered all over the place, and it doesn't help that a 
 lot of the fights don't even take place in historically accurate venues. You can unlock special 
 gear by winning these classic fights, but ultimately, ESPN Classic mode fails to offer anything 
 different than the play now mode.  

          Career mode has been reworked entirely, but it all still comes down to bashing random guys' 
 heads in over and over.     

  Career mode returns, but it has an entirely new look and structure this time around. You can choose 
 to create your own boxer, or you can rebuild a legend like in previous Fight Night games. Again, 
 you begin as an amateur, and you have to fight your way up to the professional ranks. Professional 
 and amateur, however, are the only real "ranks" in career mode. In the past, as soon as you went 
 pro, you'd get a ranking. You'd start as the 50th ranked boxer and steadily move toward number 
 one as you won fights. Now, there is no rank; you simply fight one bout after another. As you win 
 fights, your popularity increases. Once your popularity gauge is full, you qualify for a special 
 contract fight, such as a sponsored fight or a title fight. In career mode, you can become the 
 champion of your weight class, or you can switch weight classes and go for another title. While 
 career mode in Round 3 lacks the rigid structure previously found in the Fight Night series, the 
 basic principles are still intact. You still sign contracts one at a time, then train in one of 
 the three minigames, and then fight. The difference is that there aren't any clearly defined goals 
 or progress indicators, aside from your fighter's stat increases. As a result, career mode feels 
 more like a series of loosely related exhibition matches, rather than an ongoing struggle to fight 
 your way up the ranks and become a champion.  

  The fights start off extremely easy, and if you have any previous Fight Night experience, you'll 
 be able to cruise through your first dozen or so fights without getting knocked down once. In fact, 
 most of the early fights will be over before the third-round bell. You can increase the difficulty 
 at any time, but the computer opponents still tend to behave the same. The most noticeable difference 
 in higher-level fights is that your opponents are able to absorb a lot more blows, and they inflict 
 more damage per punch. As far as boxing strategy goes, though, you'll see the same few combos thrown 
 repeatedly throughout the game, and before long, you'll be able to recognize and anticipate all 
 of your opponents' moves.  

  Round 3 introduces to career mode the concept of rivalries. As you make your way through your career, 
 you'll face one or more rival boxers. You have one main rival in the game, and you'll have to face 
 him several times throughout your career. There isn't much of a difference between these matches 
 and any of the others, aside from the ridiculous cutscenes of the weigh-ins before the fights and 
 that rival boxers tend to throw illegal blows while all normal opponents play by the book. Aside 
 from that, and the novelty of beating the same guy's face in multiple times, the rivalries are 
 entirely superfluous.  

  There's no substitute for the bitterness and bad blood you share with perfect strangers when you 
 fight online. All three versions of Round 3 have online play, with a full complement of stat-tracking 
 features, leaderboards, and match options. We noticed slight lag at the beginning of our online 
 matches on the Xbox 360, but it was quickly smoothed out. You can also score some easy gamer points 
 by going for the whopping eight achievements in the game, which simply require you to win specific 
 sponsored fights in career mode. The online experience on the Xbox is lag-free as well. The PlayStation 
 2 version of the game doesn't fare quite as well online due to some noticeable slowness, but it's 
 definitely still playable. The PlayStation 2 version also requires you to have an EA Online account, 
 which is free if you don't mind getting some ESPN advertisements sent to your email address, or 
 $2 if you prefer to avoid the ads.  

  The presentation in Fight Night Round 3 isn't much of an improvement over the previous game on 
 the Xbox and PS2, but it's still more than sufficient. The player models are as detailed and realistic 
 as ever, getting bloodied and bruised as the fights wear on. The create-a-champ mode is as robust 
 and flexible as ever, letting you create the most hideous or realistic fighter you can imagine. 
 The boxing legends included in the game look accurate, although greats such as Marciano, Liston, 
 and Foreman are noticeably absent from the roster. The animations are still somewhat spasmodic 
 when fighters are changing up their blocks, and the ridiculous, twitching rag dolls are still in 
 full effect, but otherwise, the game looks and moves as good as it plays. There are half a dozen 
 venues in the game, from the Staples Center and Madison Square Garden to a warehouse and a hole-in-the-wall 
 boxing gym. The action has been slowed down a bit from previous games, which is noticeable at first, 
 but it doesn't take long to get used to the pace. If anything, the slower gameplay serves to highlight 
 the differences between fighting styles, as you'll see a significant change when switching from 
 a slugger to a speed-style boxer. The dramatic replays return, so you can see each and every knockout 
 punch in all of its crushing glory.  

  On the Xbox 360, Round 3 looks amazingly lifelike, with the most realistic and detailed fighter 
 models we've ever seen. Everything from the tape on a fighter's gloves to the look of sheer exhaustion 
 on his face makes you feel like you're watching a real bout. The heads-up display has been removed 
 in the Xbox 360 version, and while you do have the option to turn it on, you really won't need 
 to. You can judge how your fighter is holding up by the expressions (or contusions) on his face. 
 The default camera is pulled in close, and it always provides a great perspective on the action 
 in the ring. The knockout replays are especially fun to watch, because the face on the receiving 
 end of a punch contorts and deforms as shock waves ripple through flesh and cartilage. All of the 
 venues and crowds look much more detailed on the Xbox 360. If you have a high-definition display, 
 you'll see an amazing amount of clarity and detail, but even on a standard-definition display, 
 the game looks great. That said, minor issues, such as feet clipping through the canvas or a fighter's 
 trunks clipping through his legs, do detract from the overall presentation of the game, if only 
 slightly.  

  For as good as it looks, there are some tremendous eyesores in the form of excessive advertisements 
 in all three versions of the game. You'll see Dodge and Burger King logos everywhere, as if it 
 was stipulated in some contract that each frame of the game had to have at least one corporate 
 logo. You can even unlock the Burger King mascot to serve as your trainer, which pretty much destroys 
 any pretense of authenticity this game ever had. It's especially offensive on the Xbox 360 version 
 of the game, which costs $60 and is  still  loaded with ads.  

          The new impact punches aren't useful for most fights, but it never hurts to have extra 
 weapons in your arsenal.     

  The audio is well done in all three versions of the game. When you knock down an opponent with 
 a slug to the mouth, you'll hear the sickening crunch of unseated teeth and snapping tendons, followed 
 by the thick, wet sound of spit and blood flying from his mouth. The excessively gruesome effect 
 really punctuates each knockdown, and it really makes you want to avoid being on the receiving 
 end of such a punch. The commentary is once again provided by Joe Tessitore, and while he's competent 
 behind the mic, he isn't very exciting. He also tends to repeat himself often. It gets tiring to 
 hear the Philly shell defense compared to a Philly cheesesteak three times in one fight. The music 
 is composed entirely of hip-hop tunes, which sound good enough, but there are only a handful of 
 songs, and they get repeated endlessly. As a result, you'll probably end up muting the music after 
 a couple of hours of playing.  

  EA Sports' heavy-hitting franchise doesn't change up its approach for the third time through, but 
 the gameplay remains as tight and enjoyable as it has always been. So while there are no surprises 
 in store, you can expect a great game of boxing, with a fully capable single-player experience 
 backing up an excellent online multiplayer game. And at $10 cheaper than last year's game, the 
 deal is even sweeter if you pick up the PS2 or Xbox version. If you're going for the Xbox 360 version, 
 you'll have to pay the premium price, but the upgraded visuals are worth it.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (541 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: arcticcop
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 20, 2009 6:33 pm PT
Review:  Lets do this right from the hop. This is a good looking game, its been out for a while now and 
 I still am impressed with some of the models.
  
  Boxing games are a tough genre. The sport itself is fairly limiting- several styles, several stances, 
 trade blows, then someone falls down or is scored. If you spice it up too much you lose the Sim 
 aspect, and by proxy the real boxing fan base (ala Toughman Contest by Electronic Arts circa 1995) . 
 If you don't add some pizzazz? You only get ring groupies ( see the incredibly boring Caesars World 
 of Boxing on CDI for the most boring attempt at boxing to date 1993) .
  
  My experience with boxing games spans Mike Tysons Punch Out, pre-rape prison beef, through the 
 various other boxing games I'll use as a base for comparison.
  
  It is definitely a better looking game than Fight Night 2004, and Fight Night Round 2. However, 
 you knew that. This is the first instalment on a new generation- you know that its going to look 
 better, and I've already told you it's a good looking game. 
  
  However- why can't I buy different ring girls anymore? 
  
  3D boxing is nothing new, this the 
 third game in this series, and EA has a lot of experience with the genre (see Foes of Ali 1995 for 
 3DO by EA for their polygonal experience) . The fighters are nice and big on the screen with nice 
 angles. Of course if you don't pay attention it is possible to back into the ropes and not realize 
 it do to not being given a visual cue of your position in the ring. You'll catch on eventually, 
 but if you get caught against the ropes by accident it'll cost you a tap in the face of two, which 
 can cost you on the higher difficulties. 
  
  At any rate, the graphics are a solid 9. 
  
  The gameplay is a nice evolution, I would say that this is the easiest control scheme in a 
 boxer since I designed a green beast in the Sega Genesis's Evander Holyfield and Greatest Heavyweights 
 games. The controls work very well, with a wide range of punches, and blocks available. 
  
  Good graphics, and Good controls check!
  
  The games presentation is switched on as well, with 
 good music choices (if you dig hip-hop) and a nice "menu theme" throughout. Think "Foreman For Real (1995) " 
 not Electrobrains no frills fighter "Boxing Legends of the Ring (1993) ". 
  
  I did not like the sound every time you change letters when naming things or applying a percentage 
 to your fighters stats. It is very loud if you have it blasting in 7.1 surround sound. Overpowering 
 the music and giving out headaches. 
  
  However the other sound effects, crowd noises, and commentary are outstanding.
  
  Over and 
 above all this its just a fun game to play, it has very customizable fighters, multiplayer, and 
 a fairly well done career mode. The down side being that there isn't any Rocky Marciano to be seen, 
 and a lot of the fighters look to similar. This can be distracting and breaks the users engagement- 
 but not to any large amount. Casual fans and hardcore heavyweights should apply.
  
  8.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Redline614
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 8, 2008 12:38 pm PT
Review:  You cant see me in this game. I seeing me knock people out with graphics so beautiful it hurts. 
 The only thing better than the graphics as i break your jaw is the sound of your face and my fist 
 in perfect harmony. Such a delight. Oh the controls, i always have total control over my oponent 
 with "total punch control" i never use the buttons but yet i control my fighter and yours perfectly.
 
  
  Technology is not on your side as i can repeatedly go to your body taking your wind which in turn 
 slows you down or i can attack your face bruising and cutting it until the ref has no choice but 
 to name me the winner. by the way if you manage to hit me i'm an expert cutman therefor by the 
 next round i prolly wont remember.
  
  The career mode is nice great practice before i murder you and your homies in the rink . Although 
 i'm not a fan of hard hits please dont test me.
  
  Only thing i dont like is that the commentary from the announcers get old after the first couple 
 of fights but all thats the only downfall i see.
  
  yes this game has tickled my fancy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Trustk1II
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 16, 2008 1:36 pm PT
Review:  The best game for the 360 by far. I dont know, i use to love wrestling games, and other fighting 
 games till i played fight night round 3. The real fun is its online play, and testing your boxing 
 skills around the world, with other people who are ready to knock/ or be knocked out. haha. I just 
 love it i bought it 2x already, and im thinking of getting hte ps3 version. Can't wait for Fight 
 Night Round 4. The best game for the 360 by far. I dont know, i use to love wrestling games, and 
 other fighting games till i played fight night round 3. The real fun is its online play, and testing 
 your boxing skills around the world, with other people who are ready to knock/ or be knocked out. 
 haha. I just love it i bought it 2x already, and im thinking of getting hte ps3 version. Can't 
 wait for Fight Night Round 4. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XCyberForceX
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 6, 2008 1:46 pm PT
Review:  Opinion - Whenever I need to take out aggression left over from work I turn on FN3 and let the 
 haymakers fly. Just joking. This was and still is the best fighting game out there until FN4 arrives 
 in 2009!
  
  Good - Controls are revolutionary with the two thumb sticks controlling the boxer. For those traditionalist 
 you can setup the controller to use the oldfashioned buttons. You get to fight some of the oldtime 
 greats from each weight category and can make your own boxer and take him to the level of world 
 champion. If you face a boxer that just keeps on bashing you to the point where you can't win, 
 you can lower the game difficulty and re-introduce him to you right! The game is well thought out, 
 flows well, and has minigames so you can help you boxer develop into a devasting one man wrecking 
 crew. Oh, and I almost forgot to say that the graphics are great!
  
  Bad - No Mike Tyson or Joe Louis.
  
  Overall - This game is an A. Well worth the purchase and 
 to keep in your collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blaze_adeel
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 14, 2008 11:46 am PT
Review:  simply awesome !!
  this is the game that gasped my interest into boxing!!!
  awesome game play and throwing haymakers and punches with analog stick makes it even better!!
 
  the impact of punches is very life like it makes u soo much indulged into it!!!
  physique of the boxers is trumendous it really makes u feel next gen (i am talking on x360)
  career 
 mode is lengthly and while playing u dont need 2 think of anyother game!!
  the only thing that i think bad is that it is not up to the challenge knocking out ur opponent 
 becomes very easy as u play 3 to 4 times !!! 
  veteran players may think dude its too easy to play !!! except this the game is excelent!!
  this 
 game is a must buy for gamers (except if u hate boxing then u should at least rent this game for 
 once) espically boxing fans !!! ea has done it again and i would like to see fight night round 
 4 soon !!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jdawg2519
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 10, 2008 7:35 am PT
Review:  First off, here's what I loved about this game: Great graphical animations, bone-breaking sounds, 
 nice written corner scenes, and great attention to detail. What I didn't like was the menu options 
 began to bore me, and had awfully slow loading times. It almost felt like I was impatient for the 
 game to start, and then when it finally did, I lost interest. The boxer intros need some more work, 
 but despite these few flaws, the game's punching design was great, but there is definitely a learning 
 curve, so don't expect great rewards, unless you are mighty familiar with Fight Night.
  
  The unusual aspect of this game is the A. I., who seems keen on getting back up mighty quickly after 
 being KO'd. Clearly you should set the saved by the bell and 3 KO rules to your liking, because 
 you may get frustrated with this. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: JackG101
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 8, 2008 9:59 am PT
Review:  This game is fun, it has great graphics, though the career mode is a let down. The game has a good 
 amount of fighters, though, doesnt have enough current boxers, which hopefully the follow up will 
 look at instead of retired ones. The Career mode is repititive. The game chooses the fights, the 
 game chooses when you go for a title, and you feel that you are just following a chain like a game 
 involving missions, where you must win it or start over, which this games career mode basically 
 is. Very late in your career, you will find that youv'e fought around 3 fighters 7 times, which 
 ofcourse, wouldnt happen in real boxing. Although this game is number 1 when it comes to boxing 
 games, there is still alot of problems that stop the game from being a legendary game. If the career 
 mode was more realistic, it would be the best sports game on the 360, no doubt. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: michelangelo197
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 6, 2008 4:13 pm PT
Review:  Overall great, especially the multiplayer as long as you use control config 3. Boxer damage could 
 be better little in the way of bruising but nice cut effects. The main boxers are well modelled 
 and textured however most of the single player boxers that you meet are pretty awful. The environmetns 
 are nicely done except for the spectators who look like they have been ported from the previous 
 generation of graphics. The ring girls also look like they have stick arms which are not anatomically 
 correct, hopefully that will be fixed too in the next title. As games go its one that you can keep 
 coming back to purely for the multiplayer action which is entirely skill based and very competitive. 
 You do get some players which will abuse certain moves online, but this can be overcome with practice 
 and skill. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ryan92677
Rating: 1
Date: Aug 29, 2008 10:17 pm PT
Review:  This has to be the most unrealistic game I've ever played! Somehow, after you knock the opponent 
 out, he fights better than before you knocked him out! wtf! The only reason I played this game 
 is because I got it for a gift. If they gave me the receipt too I would have returned the game! 
 It looks like that game with the red and blue robots fighting each other and you win by popping 
 off the head. Choppy movements and the more you hit the other guy the stronger and faster he gets.
 
  
  This has to be the most unrealistic game I've ever played! Somehow, after you knock the opponent 
 out, he fights better than before you knocked him out! wtf! The only reason I played this game 
 is because I got it for a gift. If they gave me the receipt too I would have returned the game! 
 It looks like that game with the red and blue robots fighting each other and you win by popping 
 off the head. Choppy movements and the more you hit the other guy the stronger and faster he gets.
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: fidian
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 27, 2008 3:20 pm PT
Review:  Of course, compared to its PS2 predecessor that I played, FN 3 is a steep graphical improvement. 
 Handling is good as always and I do like my hay makers. Unfortunately there are missing some old 
 favorites of mine, such as Rocky Marciano, and I have to say that I wasn't overly thrilled by the 
 career mode after a while. The possibility of having a lasting rivalry or enmity with another boxer 
 was neat, but underexploited in its potential. Maybe better the next time around. Graphics are 
 still a bit waxy and I would love to have an even better physics system employed to better simulate 
 a real boxing fight with all kinds of different hitting possibilities.
  
  Ah, and the ongoing comment. When compared to EA Sports Soccer Games, the boxing comment is still 
 a bit lame and repetitive. Last not least it wouldn't be bad to be able to decide for one self 
 which moments of the fight were worth a slow mo repetition after a round. FN3 inexplicably tends 
 to chose often enough the most mediocre parts of a given round. 
  
  Still, entertaining and worthwhile. A definite start into the new console generation. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: omegatrance
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 26, 2008 7:33 pm PT
Review:  Great graphics and sound. Good fight commentary. 
  
  I play alot of ranked online fights and I have to say you feel like your in a real life boxing 
 match. The fight can go the distance (which rarely happens) , you can end the fight by cuts and bruises 
 to your opponent or end it all by knockout in the 1st round.
  
  You choose how you want to fight.... dance around and jab, stay close in and try to demolish your 
 opponent or work on the opponents cuts and bruises.
  
  I have fought over 1000 fights online and it never gets old. Although the career mode is fun.. it 
 gets old after a while. If the online server is down for some reason I'll play a quick match against 
 the CPU. This game is worth every dollar. I just wish they could have added more fighters maybe 
 through download content. I will keep playing this great game untill FNR4 comes out. Until then.... get 
 in the ring bums!! Good fights.... good fights man. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: harryrjjj
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 14, 2008 3:45 am PT
Review:  fight night round 3 for the xbox 360 is a boxing game made by ea sports. i have the game myself 
 and enjoyed the first 2 days of having it. on to the GOOD the game has exelent graphics and gameplay 
 carrer mode does allright and create a champ is very well thought about. the detail on the boxers 
 is really realistic and makes feel like your right their!...... on to the BAD their cohld have 
 been allot more fighters in it like amir kahn and so on their is too many old boxers and not to 
 many up to date boxers. overall the game is a raiting for me a 8.5 / 10 some of the boxers in the 
 game roy jones jr, james toney, ricky hatton, muhammed ali, winky wright, for reading harryrjjj's 
 review hello hello hello hello hello hello hello hello hello hello hello hello hello hello hello 
 hello hello hello hello hello hello hello hello 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Engage28
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 1, 2008 8:44 pm PT
Review:  It seems crazy that I've just now gotten into the world of Fight Night, only picking it up 2 days 
 ago. I now believe this is simply the best boxing game available, especially after experiencing 
 Prizefighter. FNR3 immerses you into a chase to become the best, and you don't have a choice. To 
 begin with, the create-a-fighter is fantastic, the only downside being the hair choices. You can 
 adjust any setting you'd like, including height and weight, not always featured in games which 
 a gamer would assume they should be in. The fighting is amazing; it looks great, flows smoothly, 
 and keeps you coming back as each fight moves you up and becomes more intense. When knocking someone 
 out, the game slows and the graphics become incredible as the opponent gets flung backwards with 
 spit, maybe blood, flying out of his mouth as your fist collides with the side of his face. It's 
 entertaining. The downsides, now, would have to include the storyline not including any sort of 
 cutscene or dialogue, and the way an enemy can take a surprising number of shots to the face without 
 falling at times. Other than that, this game is a solid fighter and deserves some praise. I haven't 
 gotten to try the multiplayer for FNR3 yet, however I don't think it's anything special from what 
 I've heard, so I'll just continue my quest in the story. If you like boxing, fighting, even a game 
 that isn't overly exaggerating blood and injuries, check out this great game soon. It's worth the 
 new Platinum Hits price tag. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xbox360progamer
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 20, 2008 12:46 pm PT
Review:  
  This game was great. I loved the gameplay and the workouts to make your boxer better and stronger. 
 The game its self was a little shallow but it is perfect for a 2 gamer household. Its multiplayer 
 is great as you get to put your skills against someone who may or may not be better than you.
 
  
  The basics of the game are great. And mastering the actual boxing techniques takes some time... 
 if you can master them at all.
  
  But there is one thing that needs work. In the career mode, you have very little flexibility in 
 the type of fighter you create because of the way you raise your stats. You are pretty much locked 
 into eventually being stronger than you are faster.
  
  Plus the side mini-games suck! None of them help you actually learn to play the game better. The 
 weight lifting I can do without. The combo dummy is a good idea... if it taught you how to put 
 combo's together effectively instead of just being Simon Says. And the punching bag... again there's 
 no technique needed... just punch up or down. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: seedofallevil
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 2, 2008 12:11 pm PT
Review:  Fight Night Round 3 is an extremely fun, highly addictive,  game. 
 It will make you crave Fight Night Round 4. Depending on if you've played past titles, the learning 
 curve can be 5 minutes or less to half an hour or more. But once you get used to it, you'll love 
 it. There are a ton of boxers, some fictional most real. Some real fighters are: Roy Jones Jr., 
 Jeff Lacy and of course the Great One, Mohammad Ali. A example of a fictional fighter would be 
 Goliath, a fat King Hippo esq fighter. If you're wondering who King Hippo is, you've never played 
 Mike Tyson's Punch Out!!!. However, which is a sad point, Mike Tyson is absent from FNR3. But, 
 you can create him in CaB, which has a variety of options, including cranium size, nose bridge 
 size, hair style etc.
  
  Overall, Fight Night Round 3 is a great game, and I recommend a buy. Or at least a try.
  
  
 Fight Night Round 3 gets a 4 out of 5 (8.5 out of 10) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: toolzz360
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 17, 2008 5:59 pm PT
Review:  This is a quick review of Fight Night Round 3 Published by EA and Developed by EA Chicago.
  
  Gameplay:
  
  Fight Night Round 3 at first glance appears to be a very sim like boxing game 
 but the game ended up being kind of easy. I was playing on the medium difficulty and ran into a 
 few difficult bouts but I breezed by the career mode in about 8 hours of play, also unlocking all 
 1000 ach. points. There is a lack of customization and options in the career. You basically train 
 then fight then do it all over again. I couldn't find much depth in the game and it got pretty 
 boring and repetitive near the end of the career. The controls in the game are the best part of 
 the gameplay, with almost all of the punching done with the right control stick. I found it pretty 
 awkward doing this at first but it is easy to get use to. Despite this i ended up pounding the 
 a button most often to keep delivering special strong punches. 
  
  Graphics/Sound:
  
  FNRD3 really shines in the graphical department and still offers one of the best graphical experiences 
 to this day. The sound is also very good with great music, good commentary, and most importantly 
 great sound effects especially when punching hard.
  
  I was disappointed with this game. I was expecting great graphics and gameplay, but the graphics 
 were the only part that lived up to that expectation. I would only recommend buying this game after 
 a rental or only spending 15-20$ or so on it. I rented the game and dont plan on buying it anytime 
 soon.
  
  7.0/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Phenom316
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 27, 2008 7:34 am PT
Review:  The first time i played this game was when my friends brought it over.
  
  You start out picking out an awesome boxer or a legendary boxer
  
  I picked Muhammad Ali
 
  
  Okay so first impression, AWESOME graphics like it was too realistic i thought i was the one getting 
 punched in the face.
  
  You can literally dodge the punches, go behind him and knee him in the balls.
  
  I can honestly 
 say that this is the best boxing game ever because of the amazing gameplay. When you punch your 
 opponent in the face keep punching him, he dodges a few then you give him that big right hook that 
 knocks him down its awesome :D
  Normally they'll get up the first and second time but when they get all whoosy and you knock them 
 out the third time and blood flies everywhere. You can cheat and do some really cool knockout punches.
 
  
  1.
  2.
  3.
  4.
  5.
  6.
  7.
  8.
  9.
  10.
  
  KNOCK OUT!!
  
  
  Bottom Line = Try it if your a boxing fan or fighting gan, its fun.
  
  
  My rating scale 
 depends on the platform and genre its on. Since PC has much more awesome games on it, i mark much 
 harder on it so a 80% on PC would mean its great compared to the hundreds of other awesome PC games 
 of that genre, and might be better than a 98% of consoles. A great game is a great game, on the 
 system. I like to keepy my reviews short and sweet, so i wont bore you and get to the point. If 
 theres an official review out on Giant Bomb, you should definately read it because they are the 
 best reviewers in the worlds! =D
  
  
  Gameplay 8/10
  Graphics 8/10
  Fun 9/10
  Replay 7/10
  Single+Multiplayer 8/10
  
  
  Overall = 50/50 = 80% 
::::::

::::::
UserName: combatsoldier
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 30, 2008 2:07 pm PT
Review:  bottom line is this is amazing. personally fight night round 2 is better but what sets this game 
 apart is the online. the online is fun and offers limitless gameplay. the character customizations 
 in this are absolutely astounding. the problem is the story mode. it takes about 8 hours to beat 
 and once you do that its kinda like okay what now...... eventually you will become so good that 
 the game on hard difficulty will be able to be beaten in less then 2 rounds. so if you dont have 
 online capability just rent it. if you can go online then buy it. if you are looking for storymode 
 then you need to go back to fight night round two.... now listen the games graphics are beautiful 
 and the controls are awsome (control settings 3) but the story needed more then the repitiious 
 fight, train, fight, train. eventually it gets old and the only fun is online or inviting your 
 friends over for a tournament and gambling on money with who will win in what round...... oh ya 
 lots of bread lots of bread. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wilson336
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 30, 2008 12:21 pm PT
Review:  Fight Night 3 is fun, don't get me wrong, but it's kind of like going to Death Valley: great place 
 to visit, but I wouldn't want to stay there.
  
  The graphics in the game are very nice, and the boxing controls are tight. You do only have 3 different 
 cut-scene celebrations for winning for your whole career... and only 3 ring girls, too. The mini 
 training games, of which you have...3... (anybody else notice a pattern?) ... are initially fun, but 
 also get repetetive rather quickly. Once you get the title, after 20-25 fights, you can switch 
 weight classes and get another title if you wish, but that is it. Nothing new to do. You have done 
 all there is to do.
  
  Fights are easily won by turning your boxer into a powerhouse, even if his stance and punching 
 style say otherwise. About mid-way through your career you will start having a lot of first round 
 KOs. If you go the speed route it just takes longer. Plus, the slo-mo replays of you landing a 
 huge right hook are fun to watch.
  
  There are a lot of shorts, shoes, signature punches and such to buy, but again, it only entertains 
 for a while. I actually liked the idea on a previous version of Fight Night where you could buy 
 entrance music and a laser show as you entered the ring. Sadly, this feature is gone in FN3.
  
  The game does get some life back in multiplayer, if you have 2 evenly matched players. All 
 in all this game can be thoroughly enjoyed and beaten over a rental period. I bought it just because 
 I never know when I might feel like playing a match or two, not because it keeps me enthralled 
 for hours on end. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mentos_eater424
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 28, 2008 4:03 pm PT
Review:  Fight Night is back on the next-gen consoles and it's shining pretty bright for a boxing game. 
 The thing I look for in a game is, will it give me more then $60.00 worth. The sad answer for this 
 game is no.
  
  The career mode is just a series of easy, repetative matches with absolutley no story mode with 
 the exception that a few rivals give you some cheap shots. The Acheivments on the game are nothing 
 to get excited about as they can all be fulfilled in one playthrough on Easy mode. You are probably 
 not going to play this game through more than once. And it only takes a couple of days to beat 
 the game.
  
  The gameplay and controls altough are awesome. How you punch and the way you block and pull away 
 from the guy is pretty cool. One thing is sometimes you'll try to do an uppercut and you'll do 
 a hook or vise-versa. I also wish that you could move around the ring a bit quicker and more nimble 
 but thats not too big of a deal. Other then that the conrtols are perfect though.
  
  The graphics look stunning for a launch (or shortly after) game. You can see the sweat pour down 
 your guys body and you can see his face gradually getting beat up. You can see the saliva, blood 
 and sweat fly from your opponents mouth as you knock him in the face. This is all great for a while, 
 then it gets pretty repetative. 
  
  The multi-player is fun, but its not something I got really worked up about. You and your friend 
 box against eachother but I don't really like that part its just repetative as well.
  
  Overall this game is great except for one key aspect. I didn't really have fun while I played it. 
 It was fun for a while but I just don't feel like I got my moneys worth. If you are into boxing 
 games, pick it up. There is a good chance you will enjoy it. It just didn't do it for me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hschaf
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 6, 2008 1:53 am PT
Review:  Pro's:
  - great graphics and character models
  - very good sound effects
  - conrols are great for boxing and create a very realistic feel
  - tons of customization options 
 for your boxer, ranging from signature punch to mouth gaurd type.
  
  Con's:
  - although the game is great for a period of time, it gets old fast and becomes extremely boring 
 after awhile.
  - achievements are very easy to get and seem very lazily put together
  - the career mode is very simple composing of a series of random fights leading up to the belt 
 fight (your record has little impact on your contendership)
  
  Overall this game has great sound effects with very good character models and a very well put together 
 control system but is let down as far as value is concerned. The game gets old very fast in how 
 the career mode is composed of a number of seemingly random fights leading up to a title bout. 
 Whether or not your record is good has no impact on your progressing through your career which 
 gives and unrealistic and very repetitive feel to you career. This is a game that is a lot of fun 
 for a short period of time but will get old fast and not be played again. I suggest to rent it 
 and play it until youve had your fill instead of paying the big bucks for it to sit on your shelf. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: camichan
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 27, 2008 6:42 pm PT
Review:  Electronic Arts is a great company. My roommate in silicon valley worked there in San Mateo and 
 I went on-site their many times to play games and hang out. That place was fun and the employees 
 there really loved gaming and making great games. I've been a fan of Electronic Arts since Larry 
 Byrd vs. Dr J and Bard's Tale came out on the Apple IIc so its no surprise to me that they are 
 still making great games and proving that they are the undisputed champs of sports games. 
  
  EA seriously just finds a way to make new great sports games continuously, and it's a testament 
 to their success when someone like myself, who is not interested in sports at all, can enjoy their 
 games as much as I have. Fight Night Round 3 is the latest game I've tried from their lineup. The 
 last time I looked at an EA game was NHL 2001. Now I regret I haven't looked into their games more 
 in recent years. 
  
  Fight Night looks very realistic. At moments it is even photo realistic, not something I often 
 see. The boxers look great and plenty of fighting styles and gear is avaiable to customise yourself 
 enough to allow individuality. Great additions are Muhammed Ali and other great fighters who are 
 heroes to the sport. I must admit its a shame that Mike Tyson isn't in the game. I feel he should 
 be and there is likely a reason why he was not, but it's still a shame in my opinion. Lennox Lewis 
 is another omission that I would have loved to see. One of my all-time faves. With these fighters 
 I believe I would have given a 9.0 rating or better. 
  
  Don't let this convince you to not buy this game however. Currently this game is one of the cheaper 
 available Xbox360 and it's a good value in my opinion. I started playing this one Sunday at 11 
 a. m. and ended up winning the Heavyweight title at 7 p. m. in one sitting. That's an addictive game. 
 The appeal is that you can train your fighter and depending how good you are at a few mini-games, 
 determine your skill level. 
  
  If you have a friend to play this game with online, even better. I bought the Xbox360 version of 
 this game because the online community for Xbox360 is more established. I simply have to recommend 
 the 360 version over the PS3 version until the PS3 online community can compare. System aside, 
 EA has a winner here and you should check it out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mr_Impossible
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 17, 2008 9:14 am PT
Review:  Fight Night Round 3 is the best boxing game in the series however
  when you start a new game on carreer it is short and unfortunatly 
  you can't see a refferie 
 in the ring which you would in reality, you
  can not see yourself for an example winning the heavyweight title
  and also when you give your 
 opponent a big smack in the face
  he then slows down that certainly isn't real from what you actully
  see on tv! apart from it's 
 mistakes this game is very addictive and 
  fun to play with your mates. The boxing characters are pretty good
  with all that sweat and all 
 that blood flying around great!
  the enviroment is excellent, but what annoys me the most is 
  reppetitive dialogue which is shame. 
 I hope the seqeal can do much
  better that's if there is another seqeal.
  
  Graphics - The boxing models are great and the environment is
  excellent.
  
  Gameplay - Carreer 
 mode is short apart from that very addictive.
  
  How long the game lasts? - This game lasts at least 10 to 20 hours
  depending on how long you 
 play the game. Anything extra in the
  game is nothing special.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: HASHlines
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 21, 2008 2:24 am PT
Review:  EA is back with the third installment of the revolutionary boxing sim with Fight Night Round 3. 
 Well, what can i say?, innovative controls, absolutely crazy visuals, great mechanics, and a solid 
 carrer (allthough its kinda shallow in a way) , make this game well engineered. This game is a must 
 have in any XBO360) gamers collection. Even though the game is about 2 years old now the graophics 
 are top notch for nowadays. In my opinion the only thing that lets this game down are the AI of 
 the boxers, sometimes it feels like your versing the same opponent over and over again. And the 
 ragdoll physics (it can be funny though) . All in all this game is a blast to play and can sometimes 
 get a bit repetitive, but while the blast lasts you wont be able to put this one down. The online 
 component of the game is a bit of a challenge, as the controls wont be as responsive due to latency (LAG) 
 but you should still give it a try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: subnoiz1605
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 30, 2007 10:19 am PT
Review:  Alright this is just short and sweet,
  
  Fight Night is my favorite game, it is a great game, for those who say its under developed, I think 
 they are wrong, there is so much to this game, every boxer has there own unique style, diffrent 
 combo set up's, and there's no book to teach you them you have to learn yourself, you gotta get 
 on youtube and start watching some of your boxers fights even, figure how they move, how they punc 
 h, how they dodge, etc. and do it in fight night, guarentee you'll be better. alot of people like 
 to diss this game because they can beat it all day on hard, which my 5 yearold nephew can do, but 
 then they go online and get beat like a red headed step child and get mad and throw the controler 
 down and come on here and complain about online exploits and crap, and "button mashers". i'll tell 
 you that you have to master this games combo punches, and moveing around the ring, it takes time 
 to figure this stuff out, and you just have to have some kind of knowlege of boxing, this isnt 
 Elder Scrolls or Viva Pinata kids this is Fight Night. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Genius
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 30, 2007 1:59 am PT
Review:  Everything you've heard about this game is true. It looks great, has excellent controls and is 
 probably the best boxing game ever made. Being able to customise your boxing style is a huge plus 
 and very well implemented. It is lengthy and plays very well vs a friend.
  
  It also has a restrictive career mode which most people (boxing fans included) , will become bored 
 of very quickly. You will move up in weight only when the linear mode directs you there and you 
 can never move down again. To be honest, it makes no real difference as your rivals will follow 
 you to that weight so you will essentially be fighting the same guys anyway.
  
  The product placement is overly gratuitous to the point of being ridiculous and the low number 
 of music tracks very quickly make you look for the jukebox option to turn them off.
  
  The new punches that have been added hurt the game in my opinion.
  The stun punch is ridiculous. 
 The first person perspective makes it very difficult to attack or parry and adds nothing to game 
 as you will not bother with it after awhile.
  
  The flash KO punch is not actually that. It does not KO your opponent automatically (thankfully) , 
 rather puts him at low health where a few good hooks will knock him down. You can go through the 
 entire game not training correctly as long as you master the parry and flash KO punch. That is 
 NOT a good thing.
  
  I know why they have tried this but to be honest the only game that has ever pulled flash KOs off 
 successfully (in my opinion) was a Knockout Kings game. If you parried and threw the right punch, 
 or threw the right punch while the opponent was punching, you could knock them down or even out 
 with one punch. It did not happen often but was very well done as you couldn't really plan it and 
 were never sure if you were about to hit the deck.
  
  A big gripe of mine with these games is the straight punch. These are basically glorified jabs 
 in these games despite being a power shot for boxers like Lennox Lewis and Thomas Hearns. This 
 game retains that fault.
  
  There is a large amount of boxers but this is very misleading. Some boxers are listed at up to 
 3 different weight classes so they can't and shouldn't be considered different fighters. Roy Jones 
 had one fight at heavyweight yet he is listed as one? No thanks. How about giving us another fighter 
 instead? No Lewis, Holmes, Tyson, Foreman, Byrd, Joe Louis, Marciano or Shavers to name just the 
 heavyweights.
  
  You can no longer customise your ring entrance which makes me wonder why you even have one. The 
 ability to turn these off would have been a good option as they add to the already too long load 
 times. The sections where you and your rival fight at the weigh in seems tacked on and worthless. 
 You either parry him (but not attack) or get hit a few times. Doesn't matter though, as it means 
 nothing except more load times.
  
  I have given this game a pretty good bashing. I think it's justified. This game is the best one 
 yet but the above issues make it fall short in my opinion. I hope the next installment (if there 
 is one) retains the good and flushes the bad. Then we may just have the perfect boxing sim. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mark_webster_87
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 23, 2008 1:59 pm PT
Review:  Like most EA Games, this one is a bag of mixed results which stops it from fulfilling it full potential.
 
  
  Graphically the game is superb and shows off the power of the 360 and the strongest point of this 
 is when you see a close up of a knockout shot and you can see everything from the blood, sweat 
 and even the creases in the skin from the impact of your hand.
  
  Soundwise the game is just as strong and you get a great atmosphere though the early parts of career 
 mode does lack this as you are forced to play in small arena's. Commentary is also very good for 
 a sport game though it does get a little repetitive but not as much as EA's other sport games like 
 FIFA.
  
  Gameplay like a lot of EA games is a major problem because there are big flaws in the game. The 
 combat system is better than any other boxing game but is not fluent enough and EA have several 
 different kind of boxers they have set up for you to fight. There a speed boxers, hardhitters, 
 defensive etc but that provides the game with no real surprise of a boxer who can mix it up but 
 also provides a massive flaw in the hardhitters who can soak up a immense amount of damage without 
 being tired or cut and then they can virtually get right into your face and knock you down with 
 half the effort. Gameplay like that makes the entire game so unbalanced and ruins all the good 
 work that was put in.
  
  The AI for the most part is decent but is so predictable after a dozen fights or so plus EA mega 
 boxers like I stated before ruins any fun you can have. Also the rival you are given is not much 
 of a rival and is normally too easy to beat during your encounters in career mode.
  
  The game offers decent value with the career mode and online play but with all the flaws and not 
 enough boxers then the game loses it value some what. The price for the game helps make the game 
 worth some value and its not all bad, like I said earlier, good graphics, sound and still the best 
 boxing game to date but it needs a lot of work. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mystery_dude
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 12, 2007 11:00 am PT
Review:  Gameplay: The gameplay in this game is relatively good a bit repetitive as it is always the same 
 pattern fight train fight train fight train etc. You can get different personal trainers to help 
 you costing about 50,000 or something along the lines of that a true rip off for a few more percentage. 
 When you train some things will go up others down as it realistic. It can get annoying though but 
 doesn't ruin the game in the slightest. There are different types of training though so it doesn't 
 really get that boring plus each one only lasts about two minutes. Now for the actual fights. The 
 fights at the beginning are alright but there isn't that much good blood effects as you have the 
 protective gear on. Once you are above the Amateur level or rank you the graphics really come into 
 play but I'll go into more detail about the graphics later. The fights vary as each person fights 
 differently. Some don't block run straight into it fists flying all over the place. Some come in 
 slowly blocking and dodging they can be quite annoying. It is especially annoying when they are 
 dodging. It seems you just cannot get a punch in. (personally I get very annoyed with them!)
  
  Graphics: As I said earlier the blood graphics and sweat don't really come into play until 
 above amateur level. The create a character is absolutely great. The amount of detail from are 
 you fat ripped skinny muscled to how wide big thin your eyebrows are the range of detail is simply 
 massive. The in fight graphics are better than most games that I've seen. When you knock them down 
 the sound and face crunch and wobble etc. Finally the bit I've been waiting for. The blood effects. 
 They are amazing! The way the blood flies through the air and you hear the jaw crunch neck snap 
 and face smash as the opponents face hits the deck for the count! The way the muscle look and the 
 arms stretch out to smash the opponents face is simply phenomenal.
  
  Controls: The control scheme in this is very good. Something like Skate. but Fight Night Round 
 3 was here first so probably that is where the inspiration for Skate. came from. Swing right for 
 a right hook or left for left hook. Swing it up for an uppercut. This eliminates button bashing 
 but for those who want to though you can swing wildly and hope you get some good punches in this 
 is how I started out but I slowly got better and got the swing of things (no pun intended!) It 
 is very fun though even if you are just swinging the sticks randomly. Just looking in aw at the 
 graphics.
  
  Multiplayer: The multiplayer split screen is fun. It is fun when you have a friend round for playing 
 seriously or just a fun game. Probably quite good when you are drunk I couldn't really tell you 
 though as I am only twelve. Online is fun too but if you aren't very good at it then I advise that 
 you don't play with anyone that has a really high gamerscore or anything like that trust me I tried 
 and failed miserably.
  
  Overall: A great game with great graphics flawed gameplay but no with glitches just not much 
 
  variety when it comes to career mode! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheBurgerKing2
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 2, 2007 11:35 am PT
Review:  Pros:
  1) Amazing graphics, you can see sweat and blood dripping down from the boxers face and body.
 
  
  2) Sound effects will make you squeal because you can hear the boxers face being crack open when 
 you get a good hit.
  
  3) Gameplay remains strong just like the other ones and it works a lot smoother on the 360.
  
 
  4) Playing this game with a friend is a lot of fun.
  
  5) You can play some of the biggest fights in boxing history like Mohammad Ali vs Brandon Frasier.
 
  
  Cons: 
  1) The lack of an online mode i doesnt give you ,much to do after you beat the career mode.
  
 
  2) Career mode doesnt have much of a story to it and it gets repetitive after a while.
  
  3) Career mode is somewhat short. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spiredcrescent
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 27, 2007 10:26 pm PT
Review:  I have been a fan of fight night since the first game. With the introduction of total punch control 
 I could not imagine how it could be any better. EA really shows its talent by making this great 
 game. Fight night allows you to create a character or go through a legends' career. The gameplay 
 is excellent as the game rids itself of the hud, but you can change that in the options menu. Health 
 and stamina is easily observed through the sounds and looks of the fighter. The graphics are amazing 
 and is one of the first games to really show what the Xbox 360 is capable of. Online works okay, 
 with a view connection dropouts at times, but all in all this is the only boxing game you will 
 need. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tenczas9
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 19, 2007 4:55 pm PT
Review:  This game could have been superb. Great grahpics, sweet boxing controls with the analog sticks, 
 and a pretty cool career mode. Unfortunately, besides quick play and xbox live, that's about the 
 only mode the game has to offer. Another problem is the lack of characters. Sure, there's about 
 15, but it gets boring after 10 fights having to use the same boxers over again.
  
  Gameplay: Sweet controls with the analog sticks. Sometimes you'll mess up and tilt the stick too 
 low or high and mess up your punch.
  ( 8.5 )
  
  Graphics: These grahpics are so beautiful that the put tears in my eyes. The cuts on the boxers 
 look very realistic.
  ( 9.5 )
  
  Playability: The game is great for a picking up and playing every once in a while with friends 
 or by yourself, but after the career mode, there's nothing to do!! The fights can get boring as 
 well, and may sometimes seem repetetive.
  ( 7.0 )
  
  Last Word: A sweet boxing game for fans of the fighting genre. Solid controls and great graphics 
 complete the package. You can't really find a better title for getting achievments either. 
  
  Rating:      8.0 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ryuthekaizer1
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 18, 2007 3:15 pm PT
Review:  well this game owns, simple. he game is controlled by the right analouge stick. the jabs hooks 
 and uppercuts are all controlled by the right stick, A uses haymakes, and b is foul punches, the 
 gameplay is flawless true boxing style which is second to none, the wii cant pull of this game, 
 the graphics are brilliant! the sound is just right, the xbox live has little lag, all in all its 
 a brilliant game go buy it! but career mode is brilliant! you go up in ranking from amature to 
 world class to world champion by each win. Great game great console! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheBigTicket21
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 1, 2007 8:34 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay - 7/10 - The punches aren't as fluid as one would want. They don't quite connect where 
 you'd like. The career is fun. The game makes you feel like you're in the ring, but the boxers 
 are quite slow. Big hits always cause the same cut-scene of stumbling back, give him the big punch 
 and he's down which isn't realistic.
  
  Graphics - 10/10 - Beautiful, best ever when released.
  
  Sound - 9/10 - Very good hip-hop 
 choices.
  
  Value - 5/10 - Way Short Career, Not enough boxers. Matches are over relatively short.
  
  Reviewer 
 Tilt - 8/10, Beautiful, Too short, not deep enough, fun to play with friends. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tarugista
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 27, 2007 12:06 am PT
Review:  Fight Night round 3 is an average boxing game, good graphics, good sounds and good gameplay.
  
  The single player mode is somewhat pale. EA should have put some effort in making the SP mode 
 more realisitic, like putting a referee, briefing before the fight, fighter eye to eye stand off. 
 michal buffer shouting lets get ready to rumble! , or showing the stats when introducing the fighers 
 (like in the real T. V title fight pay per view) . I mean, they have put a good work, copying the 
 faces and movements of the famous boxers, why not go an extra mile, make seem it like a real pay 
 per view fight? Not all players play multiplayer, gamers like me, more like the realisitic environment 
 and gameplay.
  
  Oh... and one more thing.. isn't it time to put Iron Mike Tyson in the game? Everyone wants to fight 
 this Baddest Man on the Planet 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JFRocker
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 24, 2007 12:26 pm PT
Review:  Fight Night Round 3 is a fantastic boxing title. Many would agree, myself included, that it is 
 the best of the genre. That said, it still manages fails to implement features that are understood 
 by the industry as common and essential to Next Gen gaming. The first of which is the inability 
 to incorporate custom soundtrack. This feature is not new by any means. Incorporating your own 
 personal music collection has been a standard in the Sports genre since the original X-box. This 
 is unusual given the level of detail that is permitted to the player when creating a boxer. I was 
 able to reproduce my likeness with startling accuracy. However, I felt almost powerless as I was 
 unable to select my boxers personality or entrance music. This really cuts down on the overall 
 personalization of your created boxer. At least EA has something new to include in their next installment 
 of the series, although by that time these features will have lost much of their prestige.
  One of FNR3's greatest strengths is its attention to detail. Both the character models and animations 
 are amazing and set the standard for Sports titles. It is unusual given the inevitable time given 
 to the boxers, that the crowd models and animations are comparable to PS2 or Xbox Sports games. 
 They fail to create a truly believable environment. Fortunately you won't spend much time staring 
 at the crowd or you'll be sure to have your block knocked off. Bottom line is if you are a fan 
 of sports or fighting titles, you will enjoy Fight Night Round 3 immensely. It provides a little 
 something different after the hours logged on the onslaught of First Person Shooters this Holiday 
 season.
  
  Good: Amazing character models and animations. Simple controls that provide depth as well as a 
 stiff challenge for even the most seasoned of gamers.
  
  Bad: No custom soundtrack. Crowd models and animations are poor. Would have liked to see more depth 
 in the Create a Boxer feature. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: arroliga
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 23, 2007 2:32 pm PT
Review:  It's hard to find things this game does wrong besides the lame in-game ads from Dodge, Burger King 
 &amp; the sports brand Under Armour. Hate to make this my top item, but you can't help but notice 
 the beautiful graphics in this game. The character models are simply breathtaking &amp; the lighting 
 &amp; particle effects will have you thinking at times you're watching a live boxing match. Add 
 the real time facial damage to the package &amp; your in for some stunning visuals.
  
  Now on to the juicy part: the boxing mechanics. The fighting itself is AWESOME. The motion captioning 
 is right on &amp; adds to the realism of each punch. There are so many animations that no two blows 
 ever look identical. However, the default control scheme where you use the right analog to control 
 the action detracts alot from the fun of the fight. Due to the nature of analog, there's a lot 
 of guesswork involved with throwing your desired punch so its hard to string combos. To get over 
 this, change the control scheme to classic fight night scheme. You'll love it. You'll be handing 
 out 5 pieces like Church's chicken in no time.
  
  The career mode was definitely the biggest letdown for me in Round 3. It just feels like it could 
 have used more polishing considering the scale of this game. You basically fight with your created 
 Legend until you voluntarily retire with a few championship &amp; PPV fights thrown in here &amp; 
 there during your career. But dont get me wrong, it's still fun. I played the career mode from 
 start to finish in about 8hrs in one night! Went 54-3 in 13 game years.
  
  Fight Night: R3 is a breakthrough title for the boxing genre. Although the career mode isnt spectacular, 
 the superb visuals together with the tight boxing mechanics make this game the best boxing game 
 out there right now. Money well spent. 8.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ce184705
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 23, 2007 9:45 am PT
Review:  This was the best of the series so far and is the best boxing game out there, that is why i gave 
 this game a ten. The punching in this game is much smoother than the first two. They had some new 
 names with the fighters some good young talent that actually didn't turn out to do much at all 
 in real life. However, they went out and found some new blood but left out some fighters that should 
 of been in there like Floyd Mayweather Jr. and Rocky Marciano, he was in the first two and should 
 of been in the third. The graphics are ridiculous and even if you don't like boxing or fighting 
 games just rent it to see how it looks. The knock out views are cool. You now have control to send 
 your opponent to the mat at any point. You just have to set it up, but you have the ability to 
 send your opponent into knockout mode with just one punch. I'm very interested to see what the 
 designers do for Round 4. Round 3 is the best boxing game out there and you will love it if you 
 like the first two. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Deadly_Sn1per50
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 17, 2007 10:12 am PT
Review:  A night to remember. Fight night round 3 was really good for single player I did not try much online 
 but might of been good. I don't play it much either now but at the time one of the best games i 
 have played. Hope for fight night round 4 or fight night 2008 whatever its gonna be called. Maybe 
 possibly create a fight night street that would be very interesting and possibly a must buy. Achievements 
 were also very easy for this game but took time too get.
  
  A night to remember. Deadly Sn1per50 Deadly Sn1per50 Deadly Sn1per50 Deadly Sn1per50 Deadly Sn1per50 
 Deadly Sn1per50 Deadly Sn1per50 Deadly Sn1per50 Deadly Sn1per50 Deadly Sn1per50 Deadly Sn1per50 
 Deadly Sn1per50 Deadly Sn1per50 Deadly Sn1per50 Deadly Sn1per50 Deadly Sn1per50 Deadly Sn1per50 
 Deadly Sn1per50 Deadly Sn1per50 Deadly Sn1per50 Deadly Sn1per50. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Triple_H90
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 15, 2007 10:37 am PT
Review:  Fight Night Round 3 is great, but not everything about it is great. Let's start with the positive. 
 First of all, as you might notice, this game brought the first true next generation graphics on 
 the Xbox 360 last year. Yes, it still looks incredible... stunning! It looks amazing graphically. 
 The gameplay that you should know by now if you're familiar with the series is still here and it's 
 still rocking. With some new punches added, the gameplay still feels fresh, but a little too familiar 
 if you've played Fight Night Round 2. The career mode is still the same, you create a boxer or 
 play with an existing one and you go from one fight to the other fight. Win titles and move on. 
 Here's where the problems start, it's too repetitive. The matches sometimes seem to drag on for 
 too long and that makes the whole experience kind of boring. The career mode feels like it lacks 
 effort from the creators. It's too dull. They could've at least added some cutscenes or more different 
 ways for the boxer to enter the ring. It's too repetitive.
  
  There's also a great multiplayer mode if you want to challenge the whole world and prove that YOU're 
 the greatest of all time.
  
  Overall, this is a great game and a must-buy for boxing fans that own an Xbox 360/PlayStation 3. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Animal-Mother
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 11, 2007 8:02 am PT
Review:  Fight Night Round 3 is totally one of those games, that can hook make people who don't like boxing 
 love it. I'll start off with career mode. Once you start this mode you create your own boxer to 
 your own prefrences, i mean everything from look to how he fights, to size, to weight, almost anything 
 you can think of. Ater you've created your boxer you move up through the ranks, and begin fighting 
 more and more famous boxers, until you get to the world championship. In Between each fight you'll 
 train your boxer to gain better stats, so he can last throughthe longer fights and to what kind 
 of fighter you want to be. The difficulty is just perfect depending on how dedicated you are,. The 
 Multiplayer works incredibly well, it's not split screen but one screen, and the camera is almost 
 flawless. The online mode is also a blast, although you cannot upload your own boxer, you can use 
 the pre-set boxers. Fight Night is one of those games that just grabs hold of you from start to 
 finish and even long afterwards, and now that it is out for about a year so the $30.00 price tag 
 is worth every penny. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: arthas242000
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 23, 2007 8:32 am PT
Review:  Well, when it comes to sports were anybody men or women beat the living hell out of each other 
 I'm totally in. I absolutely love boxing and any sport that is even slightly violent. Personally, 
 I only owe a handful of boxing games; my favorites being Mike Tyson's Punchout and Ready to Rumble 
 1&amp; 2 on the Sega Dreamcast. I also have Knockout Kings 99 and Fight Night Round 2. The latest 
 boxing I purchases was Fight Night Round 3.
  
  Graphics: Graphically, this game was impressive when it originally came out at the birth of the 
 Xbox 364; now with games like Gears of War, Bioshock and the soon to be released Halo 3; fight 
 night has lost that graphical edge sense it not the best looking game any more. Artistically, the 
 character models look amazing and animate decently. The environment are so generic and bland that 
 to me it seems that EA Chicago tried way to hard to give each ring a different feel and personality. 
 The equipment looks great, the trucks have their own little physics; gloves, shoes and mouth pieces 
 all reflect their real life counterparts perfectly. The only problem I graphically; but this isn't 
 really a specific problems, as its a global problem with EA itself ; is how they portray hair in 
 games. Even now, in Next-Gen hair whether its static or animated looks completely fake and more 
 so when EA does it; this game is no different.
  
  Presentation: The presentation for Fight Night Round 3 is laughable at best. They integrate their 
 ESPN license by having ESPN Wednesday night fights, Friday Night fights and Pay-Per-View fights. 
 This is all fine and dandy but overall whether it's Wednesday Night Fights or Friday Night Fights 
 the presentation doesn't change which doesn't really utilize the license. I don't know if EA Chicago 
 has ever seen a fight before; but each program has a different announcer and presentation based 
 on the fight. Which in my opinion is the biggest problem with this game. It has no life; I have 
 over 40+ fights already clocked into this game, yet the only different between my early fights 
 and current fights is the opponents name and skill level. The presentation never changes, the same 
 annoying announcer never changes and the overall feel of a fight never changes. Which doesn't make 
 any sense seeing that Title fights should be hyped like crazy with different promotional events 
 and press and things of that nature. In this game, title fights are no different from regular prize 
 fights. As may reviews have stated this game shamelessly has tons of random advertisement such 
 as: Dodge, Burger King, Everlast and Under Armour. Now I can understand the promotion pieces around 
 the ring. I can even understand sponsored tournaments and events but actually having the Burger 
 King guy as a trainer is really, really retarded. Nothing says sell out louder than EA actually 
 taking the time to create a model for the Burger King mascot. This games presentation is a joke 
 and really goes to show how EA totally abuses their licenses and puts zero effect in the final 
 product.
  
  Gameplay: The gameplay mechanics are basically the same as Fight Night Round 2 for the xbox and 
 playstation. This entails using the left analog stick to move the fighter around while the right 
 analog stick does all the punching. The system is still great and doesn't really need much; but 
 thankfully EA was gracious enough to add 2 new punches.. WOW.. the stun punch and impact punch. 
 The stun punch will stuns the opponent character in one hit, but if you miss the opponent has a 
 huge window of opportunity to counter. Once a stun punch is connected you go into a first person 
 mini game which is like the old arcade boxing games. The impact punch puts the opponent in there 
 weak mode instantly; this is when your fighter is dazed and could potentially be knocked out. These 
 are decent add-ons that don't really change much of the overall game. Yet, you can always expect 
 EA to take the if it ain't broke don't fix it motto. Career/Story: The single player or career 
 mode for Fight Night Round 3 is like the presentation,.. ridiculous. Here is what you will be doing 
 the entire time: Sign a contract, pick a fight, Train based on three different mini games: Combo 
 Dummy for speed, heavy bag for body and chin which makes no sense and weight lifting for strength. 
 Finally, you actually fight the guy; thats the entire extent of your career activities. There is 
 also, edit your boxer which is pointless, fight shop which lets you buy different equipment and 
 trophy room were yes you look at your trophies.. AWESOME!!
  
  Sound: The sound design is pretty decent, though the soundtrack is limited and the sound effects 
 are basically recycled every ten seconds; the fact that this game is on the 360 which allows you 
 to play your own music is awesome; so thank Microsoft for that one.
  
  features: The features are decent, there is a quick fight were you and a friend can just get into 
 the fight right away. Career mode, create a fighter, online and ESPN classic fights. Create a fighter 
 is useless in my opinion and makes no sense really. Why would you create a random fighter that 
 isn't going to be in the career mode?? Online is decent and ESPN classic is the same as it was 
 on Knockout kings 99.
  
  Conclusion: Now, your probably thinking what the hell. You just knocked this entire game for like 
 5 paragraphs and yet it still getting a 7.5. Yes as I stated in the beginning this game is decent 
 game but it has huge stipulations to overcome. For one: you have to love boxing and boxing games 
 alike. Two, you need to have an understanding of what EA offers when it comes to sport games. Finally, 
 you have to take the game for what its worth not what it could have been. EA loves half-assing 
 it but sense this is the only license simulation game.. well if your a huge boxing fan like myself... you 
 don't really have many options. Let me put it in the simplest terms possible; would I buy this 
 game at full price; $59.99 the answer is no.. so take that for what its worth. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IBLEEDBLUE33
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 9, 2007 9:24 pm PT
Review:  Beating the crap out of someone in the video game world never felt more enjoyable. The graphics 
 are very good and the effects are even better. You stun a guy and watch his blood and sweat just 
 fly off his face as it crumbles from the blow of your glove. Of course when you are on the receiving 
 end it is not quite as enjoyable. The controls are solid and at first you might think you have 
 a classic boxing game on your hands. But the more I played it the less I was impressed. The ring 
 girls for instance look very stiff not what you would expect from a next generation console.
  
  In the single player career you will rank up until you become the champion. This progression 
 could have been better. You will fight a lot of the same boxers over and over. Also it seems sometimes 
 the computer will fall over like a 10 year old school girl where sometimes it is like an average 
 Joe fighting Ali. The presentation should be better by now as well. I would like to see your boxer 
 actually have a personality or maybe some voice acting from your challenger. You know just to give 
 the sense that you are about to accomplish something grand. The multiplayer is the real heart of 
 any boxing game. While this game is fun in short doses it doesn't reward the skilled as much as 
 it should. You can be beating the crap out of somebody and still lose. Why? Because the power punches 
 are to easy to land for the amount of power they do. One punch can be worth 20 jabs. This is not 
 how real boxing works. Very seldom do you watch a boxing match where one guy is losing horribly 
 to just throw a haymaker and come back to win. I am not saying this doesn't happen but in this 
 game it happens all the time. So you basically need to perfect this power punch if you want to 
 win some online matches. I don't want this game to sound broken because the fights are still real 
 fun and there is a lot of boxing skill that goes into it, especially for a videogame.
  
  Overall this is a worthy effort from EA and it really makes me look forward to future additions. 
 Let just hope they don't rest on their design and send the improvements that could make this game 
 really really fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hogowagh
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 8, 2007 4:37 pm PT
Review:  What I have to say about this game Its good not perfect fun for some time best boxing game ever 
 that all I have to say ow 56 words to go ok. I trated erogon for this whit my friend first I thouthe 
 it was a good idea but no it was not. This game is fun in beganing then its get boring did I telll 
 you yet how hard it is ok its not super hard its hard well it gets harderalong the way. I like 
 this game but there are beter games 2 one was beter mutorl cobat was beter. I have to say if youre 
 looking for a great boxing game that has like 8 achivments its youre game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigb89
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 28, 2007 2:09 am PT
Review:  Fight Night: Round 3 is the third boxing title from EA Sports to carry the Fight Night name. It 
 features the usual improvements such as better graphics and gameplay. Impact Punches is one of 
 the most drastic changes, along with ESPN Classic fights and a new career mode, in which the player 
 fights to gain popularity in order to reach sponsored fights, or to be featured on ESPN. Unlike 
 in older versions, Round 3 defaults without a heads-up display (HUD) , allowing a player to judge 
 the status of their stamina and energy based on their stance, movements, and facial features.
 
  
  Versions
  
  The game has been released for several video game consoles and some differences exist between the 
 versions. The cover art features Arturo Gatti and Micky Ward on all versions, except the Xbox 360, 
 PS3 and PSP versions which feature a photo of Oscar de la Hoya instead.
  
  Critical reception
  
  Official Xbox Magazine awarded Fight Night: Round 3 with a rare 10, the 
 highest score given by the magazine.
  
  G4techTV's Reviews on the Run's Victor Lucas stated that Round 3 had the best graphics he has ever 
 seen on a video game.
  
  The game has been criticized for its highly intrusive product placement. While brands for athletic 
 apparel, such as Everlast and Under Armour are expected in a sports game, sponsorship by Dodge 
 and Burger King is regarded as excessive. It won GameSpot's award as the game with The Most Despicable 
 Product Placement .
  
  The career mode has also been criticized for lacking reality to boxing with a simplistic ladder 
 to the top, taking on present and historic characters as well as made up boxers. The intelligence 
 has also been called limited; for example, the game automates a rival during the path as an amateur 
 boxer and throughout the career of the boxer. The player's fighter does not have a world ranking 
 and world titles cannot be won, lost or unified, unless the player follows the automated progress.
 
  
  Furthermore, the minigames are the same from the previous version, with the only alteration being 
 the perspective from which they are viewed. Additionally, the Xbox 360 version has several flaws 
 on what is essentially a modified version of Round 2 that include a cutman who warns of cuts before 
 they can be remedied by the player; and issues with characters falling after being knocked out, 
 such as the common glitch where a character's limbs are thrown around randomly after he hits the 
 ground.
  
  Another problem with the game is its low level of challenge from the AI. Various gaming websites 
 (and other critics) that have reviewed the game thought that the AI was too easy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sportzfan8993
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 2, 2007 2:14 pm PT
Review:  This game is obviously the best boxing game because it is the only one. I have it for xbox 360, 
 and the graphics are really good. The sound is good too.
  
  But this game has too much of an arcade feel. In a real fight you dont see the boxer block only 
 his head or only his body, but in the game you do. Ea sports didnt do a good job of liscensing 
 enough boxers, so the list is very short (they even had to make up a lot) . The career mode isnt 
 deep at all. All you do is 1) sign a contract 2) train (to raise your stats) 3) and then fight. 
 The achievements are riduculous!! There are 8 for a total of 1000 gamerscore?? its crazy. also 
 there is no ref in the ring? And the clinching is not realistic one bit. This game is good, but 
 the biggest problem is that is isnt deep enough. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: peterj_123
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 20, 2007 5:16 am PT
Review:  I love this game its great fun and has an amazing multiplayer mode. The career mode is very good 
 and starts to get pretty hard when you age and the end of your career comes nearer. Fight night 
 round 3 has a wide range of boxers to choose from and play either in your career, on live, play now 
 and many other game modes. In career modes you can either relive some one elses career by playing 
 as a real boxer or you can create your own.
  
  The graphics for this game are very good to the point where you can see every drop of sweat on 
 yours and your opponents bodys and also the blood flying from there mouth in slow motion when you 
 deliver a lethal knock out punch.
  
  There is no hud in this game which gives it a more realisic feel to the game .
  
  I would recommend 
 this game to all sports fans and boxing fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nutta27
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 13, 2007 11:07 am PT
Review:  Fight Night Round 3 is a very detailed boxing game for the XBox 360 by EA Sports, this is the first 
 fight night game on the next generation of consoles and it boasts a new control system
  
  The game has little to no story, the career mode sees you start out by creating a boxer (or choosing 
 one from the roster of current or legendary boxers) then you take your boxer through the trials 
 and tribulations of being a superstar, choosing big fights, winning belts and even training. Finally 
 becoming World Champion
  
  The Gameplay is pretty simple, you have a boxing match of up to 15 rounds and you have to win by 
 points or knockout your opponent. The roster of superstars is pretty impressive you have boxers 
 from all different ages to select. From Muhammad Ali to Evander Hollifield. The most impressive 
 this game in my opinion is the new fighting system, your punches are controlled by the right analogue 
 stick, to throw left punches you push it in 1 of many different styles to the left (each style 
 corresponding to a different punch type, the punches range from quick jabs to full on haymakers) 
 and vice versa for punches with the right hand. There is also a new blocking and dodge system which 
 is done using the triggers, left trigger dodges (you select the desired direction with the left 
 stick) and the right trigger blocks ( you use each stick to control the corresponding hand) . These 
 new controls are more intuitive and make the game feel more realistic.
  
  Something else that enhances the realism is the graphics, the game looks beautiful, the player 
 models look exactly like there real life counterparts and unlike many other games the created characters 
 look no worse than the original characters so therefore do not look out of place at all. There 
 are a few problems with the graphics that I feel may need mentioning, one being when you knock 
 an opponent down their foot sometime goes into the mat itself. But the slow-mo effect of the ripples 
 in the faces, blood and sweat flying off the boxers makes you forget about that. Another great 
 visual effect is the injuries, if your opponent or you is injured the only way to tell is by the 
 swelling and/or cuts on their face as there is no HUD by default. Another thing worth mentioning 
 with this game is that it is a pretty easy 1000 points, as all the points come from playing through 
 the career mode.
  I would recommend this game to anyone even if you are not a boxing fan, the great new controls, 
 addition of well known legends and easy achievements make this a must buy.
  Although I am not fond of all the achievements being adverts for certain companies, this seems 
 that EA has sold out to me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sieler081
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 25, 2007 2:26 pm PT
Review:  Fight Night Round 3 is an insanely fun game. You fight on XBOX Live or Career Mode. There is a 
 Training Tutorial to help learn how to play. First off I started the Training Tutorial. At first 
 I was frustrated with the controls because I'm used to pushing buttons not moving a joystick. After 
 a while it just comes natural. In Training you can Practice on a dummy, Heavy-bag, Weightlifting, 
 or Sparring. In Fight Night Round 3 you use your Left and right Joysticks. A: is used for your 
 signature move, B: Illegal move, X: taunting, Y: Clinch.
  
  All in all, This game is must HAVE! I probably suggest Renting before you BUY. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jono8192
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 25, 2007 4:11 am PT
Review:  Fight Night Round 3 is a really good game, even if you do not like boxing. It has an immersive 
 career mode which sees you start of as a rookie boxer and eventually become one of the most famous 
 fighters ever. You will develop rivalries with certain fighters, and will receive a lot of satisfaction 
 by knocking them out with massive haymakers to the head. The single player mode is very addictive 
 to any player, but once all the achievements have been unloced, probably only die-hard boxing fans 
 will continue playing the game. The graphics are superb, and each fight is extremely engaging and 
 you feel the impact of every punch. The game play flows well and is easy to handle, with a number 
 of controller congiurations to match your playing style. The sounds is also really impressive, 
 and you will hear the audience shouting the nickname of whichever boxer is dominating the fight, 
 as well as other chants such as Knock him out! The game is very fun over Xbox Live as it's really 
 enjoyable to knock seven bells out of your freinds, or any other player for that matter. However, 
 the online play isn't as addictive as on other games, and like the single player mode, will get 
 a little tedious after a while.
  
  Overall, I would say an excellent game at first, but will get boring after a while for non-boxing 
 lovers. Rent it first to decide how much YOU will get out of it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: georgiaboy329
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jul 24, 2007 7:49 pm PT
Review:  The gameplay on this game is great and simple. You create a boxer and you fight in different tournaments 
 and try to be the next great champ. There is no real storyline to it which i thought could have 
 been added to make it a little better. Like more things to do outside of the ring other than train 
 like in the NCAA football series. The achievements are also very easy to get so if u are looking 
 for a game to get you easy achievements, this is a good one.
  
  The graphics are very good for being a launch title. The blood and spit that fly out of yours or 
 the other boxers mouth look incredible. These would still be very good graphics now adays even 
 though this game was made 2 years ago.
  
  The sound is excellent with excellent commentary and grunting noises from the boxers. The commentators 
 are usually not very repetitive but sometimes they can be. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: battlefront23
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 14, 2007 12:45 pm PT
Review:  Whenever you think of boxing, you usualyy think of Mike Tyson (The young version or old depending 
 on what type of fighting you like!) or Muhamed Ali as they bust the heads. You think boxing is 
 easy: punch someone in the head and they fall down (Or in Homers case wait until their so tired 
 from hitting your head THEY fall down.) But this game, especially for beginners, shows you how 
 much more complex boxing can be. The career mode is the highlight, you go through series of fight 
 until you achieve number 1 (Im still undefeated. Yeah!) . In about 10-15 minutes I was getting K. O.'s 
 with my different deadly combos. The graphics are amazing! as the guys dont move too awkwardly 
 and the devastating punches actaully look devastsating. And its shockingly fun to blow your rivals 
 head with a haymaker! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tokanite
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jul 14, 2007 12:19 pm PT
Review:  This game is one of the greatest multi player experiences out there. Nothing is more intense than 
 trash talking live over the Xbox live microphone while beating the otehr guys face in and laughing 
 at his defeat. Although the single player mode of the game is hardly worth playing, the multi player 
 proves challenging, exciting, FUN, and visually impressive overall. Facing people online can prove 
 much more challenging that the single player mode (even though the AI can get extremely tough on 
 the hard difficulty) . Players online are usually very skilled, and it takes a true mastery of the 
 punch control stick to stand a chance against most players. Although it is challenging, nothing 
 beats watching your glove crash into your opponents face in slow motion, causing him to crash to 
 the canvass for the KO. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SpartanTnT
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jul 12, 2007 3:04 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: This game is easily one of the most fun sports games I have ever played. I was never 
 into boxing that much, but this game was still very fun for me. You punch with the right analog 
 stick, and move with the left, that simple, but yet very complex. You can hold down a trigger and 
 it varies such things as where your punching, or where you dodge, and it is a very nice formula 
 to fit the game. It takes a bit to get used to, but once you are used to it, the game becomes even 
 more fun. Gameplay = 8 / 10.
  
  Graphics: The graphics in the game are amazing. It was a launch title for the Xbox 360 (or at least 
 I think it was) and it showcases the systems graphical abilities very well. The slow motion punches 
 are brutally realistic and very satisfying when your the one who thrown the punch. Only weak points 
 of the graphics to me are the crowds (which are like paper screens, they move but are as thin as 
 paper, like most sports games, but look good from a distance, and the spit + blood combo doesn't 
 look as real as the sweat or other realistic human features.) Graphics = 9 / 10.
  
  Sound: I would say the sound can be improved on the most in this game. The punches sound great, 
 so does the announcing and trainer's voices, but it just gets very repetitive. I played about 10 
 fights and since then I haven't heard any new announcing unless it's a special event fight. The 
 Trainer's voices are good, but also very repetitive, train maybe 3 times, and the sounds are exactly 
 the same. Another feature I a disappointed about is the soundtrack. EA are well known for their 
 soundtracks, but this game had about 4 songs in total. Sound = 7/10.
  
  Value: Just because it says EA Sports on the title makes it very valuable. But since it isn't as 
 popular as the other EA franchisees such as Madden, the value is slightly lowered. Value = 8/10.
 
  
  Reviewer's Tilt: I enjoyed playing this game very much. I got into the career mode, and the fights 
 in general. I unlocked every achievement in this game, which consists on winning 8 different fights, 
 and if I continued to play a game after I unlocked all the achievements, it must be pretty damn 
 fun. Reviewer's Tilt: 9 / 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lithium411
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jul 4, 2007 1:55 pm PT
Review:  ok im going to make this quick
  
  THE GOOD
  -----------------
  Graphics
  Gameplay- haymaker has been fixed
  
  THE BAD
  -------------
  Decent selection of boxers
 
  Career Mode sucks- u can't pick fights like rd2, and they make u move up in weight class
  Same 3 songs are played over again, and same commentary every time
  
  now that its 30 bucks 
 its now a good buy but unless u really want it, the graphics will not save it from the terrible 
 career mode unless u only play online
  (which can be pretty laggy)
  
  ps- now that the haymaker is fixed the game can be challenging, but they added this new punch which 
 knocks out if u land in ONE punch. That means u can just throw that punch and always win by knockout 
 eventually.
  If u do that, the game is sooo easy, if u don't throw the new punch it can be pretty hard. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gbird991
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jul 2, 2007 7:07 pm PT
Review:  Fight Night Round 3 is a great sports title, but negligible improvements in the career mode and 
 idiotic computer AI hold the game back from true greatness. Removing the HUD, in combination with 
 visible emotion, creates a more instinctive boxing experience, especially when moving in for the 
 knockout. There are some strange choices in the presentation department, like the lack of rankings, 
 but the outstanding graphics and sound effects create a great in-game experience, which is what 
 counts. The impact punches are a great addition, and the tension from a well-placed stun punch 
 creates a true white-knuckle experience. Creating a fighter and taking the title belt provides 
 decent entertainment value, but the real fun lies in beating your friends faces in. Try (or not, 
 as the case may be) as the computer might, its your friends who will be your true rivals. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brentc
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 19, 2007 9:05 pm PT
Review:  This game is amazingly fun and entertaining as you can box as legends such as Muhammad Ali and 
 also play a career where you can create and build a character. Its very good balance of simple 
 and challenging. Its also a lot of fun to have around if you are having a few guys over and want 
 some competitive multi player fun. The best part is that you can play it for 15 minutes or 2 hours 
 and be satisfied either way so whether you only have a limited amount of time or nothing to do 
 all day its a good game to have around. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EVallette
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jun 22, 2007 8:28 pm PT
Review:  Fight Night round 3 is a follow up of last years version which is round 2. Round 3 for the 360 
 blew my mind away when i saw it. the graphics are outstanding except for the round card girls elbows 
 which look funny. Round 3 has 6 configurations. Configuration 3 is the best in my opinion because 
 if you are not use to using the thumb stick to throw your punches you can simply use your buttons 
 to smash your opponents face. round 3 has a good and interesting career mode. the career mode allows 
 you to build your own fighter or choose a legend. the game has a couple of modes including an online 
 feature. round 3 has a mode called ESPN classics which allow you to play rivalry fights that happened 
 like B-HOP vs Jones Jr. or Frazier vs Ali. the game has a sparring mode which lets you practice 
 the controls of the game or if your agrrivated and need to let off some steam. this game has the 
 easiest achievements out off all the games out there for the xbox 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CapinCrunch17
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jun 17, 2007 11:10 am PT
Review:  Fight Night round 3 on the xbox 360 is aruguably the best sprots game on the 360. It takes boxng 
 to a whole new level. Whether you like just having fun and fighting against friends it a great 
 game or if you want to bevome the nest champ you can make your own boxer. Career mode has never 
 been better. You build you boxer up from the streets until you reach espn and fight on the big 
 stage. The graphics are amazing and make you feel right in the first row. The punches are great 
 and it's a blast to play and it's only $29.99 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ice-beast
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jun 13, 2007 9:00 pm PT
Review:  First i'd like to say i've really enjoyed the game so far and there is not alot to stop you from 
 enjoying the game. The graphics are wonderful. Each boxer looks real and although the ring girl 
 don't look righ the boxers still look exelent. Next is teh game play, i find this is mostly enjoyable. 
 But when ever you have an underpowered character it's hard to win fights and the total punch machanic 
 doesn't always work the way you want it to. The career mode in the game is every thing gamespot 
 has said, it's fun but weak. The training simulators are interesting but soon get tedious, and 
 it you don't do well on them you'll soon be lossing matches and cursing at your self. The boxing 
 is fun, but you never really feel like your working toward some thing. And the rival system is 
 stupid, i never really noticed it. All in all the game is a geat pick up for 29.99. The visuals 
 are great and your'll have a blast playing with friends 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crypto-236
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 9, 2007 2:56 pm PT
Review:  I have played the previous two Fight Night games and loved them both for the pure fun of hitting 
 another guy until he can't hit you back. Then when a third Fight Night was announced I just thought 
 it was going to be another game which I would enjoy. Then a demo released on the Xbox Live Marketplace. 
 I instantly downloaded it and when the gameplay movie started up with the words The following footage 
 is gameplay .... I said Ok and then it began. The first words at of my mouth were Holy crap how 
 is that real . The graphics are the very first thing you will notice about this game because bar-none 
 the are astounding to say the least. This was the first game to truly show what the next generation 
 of video games could do graphically. Every fight you have you will be intently looking at your 
 opponents face to see bruising and cuts begin to form around their eyes and mouth and cheeks. The 
 sound is absolutely incredible as well. Each hit you land will make a bone-crushing impact and 
 the little squirts of blood flying out of your opponents mouth before he hits the mat or cringe-worthy 
 to say the least. The lighting, atmosphere, and even the crowd are some of the best I have seen 
 in a video game. By now your probably saying ok i get it... the graphics and sounds are good... but 
 what about the gameplay. Don't you worry... this game has that too. The game provides a quick exhibition 
 mode where you simply pick a character and who you will fight and let the fists fly. There is a 
 career mode in which you pick or create a boxer and take him through the ranks to become the ultimate 
 champion, obtaining new gear, belts, moves, and achievements along the way. Speaking of achievements, 
 this game does not take advantage of the Xbox 360 achievements, so they are quite lazy. Go through 
 the career once and you will have all eight in no time. Another mode is a mode where you must chose 
 a legendary rival such as Ali and Frasier and fight as one of them to recreate a classic fight. 
 There a re quite a few arena's to choose from which all look quite stunning and there are tons 
 of boxers to choose from which all look, and destruct, differently. There is also an online component 
 however many immature players will simply leave the fight if they begin to lose which is quite 
 annoying to say the least especially if you have been fighting for over 5 rounds. EA's music tracks 
 are quite well chosen for this title with many songs revolving around boxing so they always get 
 you in the mood to fight someone. After all is said and done FIght Night ROund 3 is a worthy addition 
 to the series but it due to the lack of real depth in the career and not many people that play 
 online this game will begin to collect dust after a few weeks. However, if you ever want to pick 
 up a game that is really fun to watch and play, this game is certainly one to look for. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: steve12992
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 4, 2007 10:31 am PT
Review:  There are three small problems I had with this game.
  1. It's kinda easy, but not ridisculously easy.
  2. The sports caster repeats a lot of phrases 
 throughout a match.
  3. Other than those minor issues, FNR3 is hands down the most solid fighting game I've ever played 
 on any console. With an innovative control scheme, great graphics and cutscenes, and a wonderful 
 career mode, there's no reason Not to buy this game. If you're a fan of boxing, you'll instantly 
 fall in love with this game. If you're not a fan of boxing, you'll still like this game. There's 
 just no getting around it. FNR3 is materpiece, and possible EA Sport's greatest creation of all 
 time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: farshadcool
Rating: 8.6
Date: May 20, 2007 6:16 pm PT
Review:  Fight Night Round 3 is an amazing boxing game out there for Xbox 360. Actually, its the only boxing 
 game for Xbox 360. However, this game is one of the best sports games Ive ever played. I dont 
 really like boxing and I never did, but this game something different. Its fun, entertaining and 
 highly addictive! This games graphics are superb and not to mention how inexpensive this game 
 has become since it first was released. Trust me, Fight Night Round 3 will be on your best games 
 list, even if you dislike boxing. Fight Night Round 3 has some graphics that will make you say 
 wow! It is a true next-gen game and I encourage you to buy this game. You will have some uppercutting 
 fun! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shadowblade99
Rating: 8.3
Date: Aug 6, 2007 7:52 pm PT
Review:  I was impressed to see that EA captured boxing so well. There have been many boxing games in the 
 past that just haven't done it right. First off the presentation in this game is awesome. The graphics 
 are highly detailed. The animation flawless. The lighting and shadowing are excellent. It doesn't 
 just end with the fighters, but the back grounds are equally done well. EA did add some advertments 
 to the game, but this just adds to the fell of being at a boxing match. The controls are surprising 
 responsive and flow quite well. They are set up well too. It's a game that is easy to pick up and 
 play, but has some serious depth and stratagy involved. There are some quirks here and there, like 
 attacking the body versus the face, and blocking can be problemmatic at times. The music is the 
 usual sound track that you would expect from EA. Various rock and rap that is in the Madden and 
 MVP series. The sounds are well done to, the crowd reacts well to the pace of the fights and the 
 announcers actually have somethings worth while to say. The game is a little lacking in the first 
 player modes. I like that you can build your own boxer. I haven't decided if I should make my guy 
 look like me or Rocky, but there really isn't a career mode persay. Like in other EA title you 
 can take your team to the top. That really isn't present here. The multiplayer is done well and 
 it; s fun to talk some smack to your friends. The unlockables are great too. All in all this is 
 a good pick up if you are looking for a more realistic fighter compared to the Mortal Kombat and 
 the Tekkens of the world. It's rather refreshing. It's good for boxing fans and fighting fans alike. 
 Even causal gamers could get into this game. it difficult to really want to sit down and replay 
 through this game unless you area die hard boxing fan. Personally I like to throw fireballs, kick, 
 and do fatatlites more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Elite29
Rating: 8
Date: May 15, 2007 5:31 pm PT
Review:  There isn't much competition out there for EA in the boxing game genre. Normally that would mean 
 that they would put out an un-inspired product that is essentially the same game every year (take 
 Madden, for example) . But 'Fight Night Round 3' is easily the best boxing game since..... well.....'Fight 
 Night Round 2'.
  
  My main time spent with this game was in the career mode. This mode starts off very promising as 
 you create a boxer from scratch. Of course, you take on many opponents as you slowly move up the 
 ladder towards the title. Along the way, you can purchase new equipment, train your fighter, etc. 
 While all of this started off great, you will shortly being to realize that this mode doesn't have 
 much to offer other than fighting over and over. Yes, it's nice to win some cash &amp; upgrade 
 your boxer. Yes, it's nice that you can train and build up your skills however you want. And yes, 
 this is the mode where you will get those achievement points that so many gamers crave these days. 
 The problem is that after the first several fights, it gets very repetitive and boring. You take 
 on a lot of the same opponents over and over. There isn't much to do between fights other than 
 shop &amp; train, which doesn't take very long at all. After awhile I found myself just playing 
 through the mode to get those achievements. While that is fine with some games, I really liked 
 this game at the beginning whether there were achievements or not. By the end, I was very sick 
 of playing this game.
  
  That's not to say the gameplay in the ring is boring. This is a very cool boxing game that shouldn't 
 be missed by any fan of the genre. I love the analog control scheme that this series is known for. 
 The graphics are outstanding in some areas. When there is a slo-mo of you or your opponent getting 
 knocked out, the facial visuals are unbelieveable. The character models themselves all animate 
 well and move around the ring even better. The sound is very good, for the most part. The music 
 is hip-hop, if that's your thing. I actually hate hip-hop, but it didn't seem to bother me much 
 here. And the sounds inside the ring are great.
  
  The two problems I have with the presentation are the graphics of the crowd and the boring ring 
 announcer. They are both terrible. The Xbox 360 can do better than this. I know this was released 
 on other platforms along with the 360, so as usual, some areas are going to suffer. As I stated 
 before, my main problem with the game is there isn't much to do here other than the repetitious 
 career mode. I would give this a rent before you purchase to see if you can get into the career 
 mode. If you can't then I would pass on this game. If 'Fight Night Round 3' did anything for me, 
 it introduced me to the series and made me very interested in 'Round 4', whenever it comes out. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: walbeb
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 13, 2007 6:36 am PT
Review:  And he goes down yet again You will hear those words from the commentator about 1,000,000 times 
 in this game, that is one of the bad things about this game, the annoying commentator repeating everything 
 over and over again, sure Joe Tessitore is famous for his commentating in real boxing but can we 
 give him more lines please? All in all though this game should make boxing fans proud and people 
 who don't know spit about boxing but like to beat people up proud as well. It's very nice looking, 
 good combination of ways to create a boxer and make a boxer to your style and your style only. 
 There are many downsides though, first is the ratings, some boxers are given great ratings because 
 there big name but they suck *Coff* De Le Hoya *coff* and other great boxers bad ratings, it's 
 like they took the average of a boxer's career and that's there stats. The only person who's stats 
 symbolize how he was in his prime is Roy Jones Jr. and those are a little questionable. Take Ali, 
 the greatest, i've seen his fights the way he moved the way he hit and Fight Night makes him suck 
 ass, sure i can win with him but he isn't as good as he should be, if they gave him stats in his 
 prime he would be so much better, his heart is low, he can't take many shots before dying on you, 
 and his jab isn'tas strong as it should be. Another thing that erks me is THE LACK OF FIGHTERS!!! 
 I can't stress it enough, Rocky Marciano 49-0 43 K. O.'s (one of very few heavyweight chamions to 
 go undefeated) DOESN'T EVEN MAKE IT INTO THE GAME!!! Same with foreman, 65-3 63 K. O.'s arguably 
 one of the hardest hitters ever not in it either, and the next guy, Mike Tyson, sure he was dirty 
 but no one can argue the guy could fight, he was in my opionion the last fun boxer to watch because 
 he fought and didn't clinch all the time. Even though i am bashing this game i gave it a high review 
 because it is a very good fighting game, i just wish they took more time into the characters, once 
 in a while the response for the analog stick won't respond but it has never meant i would get knocked 
 out so thats not that big of a deal. This game is exactly what you would expect to get your boxing 
 crave one. As a boxer and a boxing fan i do wish FNR 4 is a lot more carefull about there stats. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skinny_man_69
Rating: 8.4
Date: May 11, 2007 5:30 pm PT
Review:  I have played the previous two Fight Night games and loved them both for the pure fun of hitting 
 another guy until he can't hit you back. Then when a third Fight Night was announced I just thought 
 it was going to be another game which I would enjoy. Then a demo released on the Xbox Live Marketplace. 
 I instantly downloaded it and when the gameplay movie started up with the words The following footage 
 is gameplay .... I said Ok and then it began. The first words at of my mouth were Holy crap how 
 is that real . The graphics are the very first thing you will notice about this game because bar-none 
 the are astounding to say the least. This was the first game to truly show what the next generation 
 of video games could do graphically. Every fight you have you will be intently looking at your 
 opponents face to see bruising and cuts begin to form around their eyes and mouth and cheeks. The 
 sound is absolutely incredible as well. Each hit you land will make a bone-crushing impact and 
 the little squirts of blood flying out of your opponents mouth before he hits the mat or cringe-worthy 
 to say the least. The lighting, atmosphere, and even the crowd are some of the best I have seen 
 in a video game. By now your probably saying ok i get it... the graphics and sounds are good... but 
 what about the gameplay. Don't you worry... this game has that too. The game provides a quick exhibition 
 mode where you simply pick a character and who you will fight and let the fists fly. There is a 
 career mode in which you pick or create a boxer and take him through the ranks to become the ultimate 
 champion, obtaining new gear, belts, moves, and achievements along the way. Speaking of achievements, 
 this game does not take advantage of the Xbox 360 achievements, so they are quite lazy. Go through 
 the career once and you will have all eight in no time. Another mode is a mode where you must chose 
 a legendary rival such as Ali and Frasier and fight as one of them to recreate a classic fight. 
 There a re quite a few arena's to choose from which all look quite stunning and there are tons 
 of boxers to choose from which all look, and destruct, differently. There is also an online component 
 however many immature players will simply leave the fight if they begin to lose which is quite 
 annoying to say the least especially if you have been fighting for over 5 rounds. EA's music tracks 
 are quite well chosen for this title with many songs revolving around boxing so they always get 
 you in the mood to fight someone. After all is said and done FIght Night ROund 3 is a worthy addition 
 to the series but it due to the lack of real depth in the career and not many people that play 
 online this game will begin to collect dust after a few weeks. However, if you ever want to pick 
 up a game that is really fun to watch and play, this game is certainly one to look for. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 11cairborne
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 8, 2007 3:05 pm PT
Review:  the game is awesome. the game came out 2006 and had better graphics than lost planet. this game 
 is like real life u box change ur outfit weigh and fight there. this game almost never gets borin 
 unless u beat it a lot which i did. if u like fight night or boxing u will like it. i have a ps2 
 and xbox360 which i bought this game for. this was my first xbox 360 game and so far the best. also 
 it is the reason i bougt the xbox 360. but definetly i say get it for xbox 360 because of the gameplay 
 not the graphics. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cammonag
Rating: 8.1
Date: May 8, 2007 4:59 am PT
Review:  Fight Night Round 3 is a good sports game , something you dont get too often in my opinion and 
 it feels great to see someone get knocked down in slow motion . I borrowed this from my friend 
 and i completed it in 6 hours . There are in total 8 achievements ( easy gamerscore game ) .
  It has good online play and is fun to play with mates ontop of that it is also great to relive 
 a career of a great eg. Ali . In Career mode you can become the best in the world . Overall this 
 is a very good game with enjoyable content and even a minigame-esque mode where you can scrub your 
 boxers face to get rid of cuts and bruising . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Antonius86
Rating: 8.2
Date: May 6, 2007 4:47 am PT
Review:  The graphics in this game is unbelievable. When i got this game, it just blew me away, its that 
 good. Its a very good stimulator game starting from rookie to a pro. But it can be hard fighting 
 someone faster or stronger than you. If you want to be a pro at this game u got to know what you 
 are doing, if not, you are going to lose a lot.
  
  You get the choose witch class you want to be, light weight, middle weight, etc. From here you 
 can fully customize your charachters facial features and clothing for the boxing ring. This kind 
 of cool to be able to have full control over your created character throughout the career.
  
  Lets talk about the online multiplayer. I really didn't like the online mulitplayer too much 
 because it takes a long time to find out who won the game and so forth. Maybe some of you people 
 will enjoy it, i don't and thats just me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: odie333
Rating: 8.2
Date: Apr 28, 2007 8:10 am PT
Review:  The short and sweet of it??? Not a great single player... Terrific two player.
  
  While Fight Night Round 3 has amazing graphics, great cut scenes, and good game play, the single 
 player career mode of the game is forgettable. After time you just feel like you have done the 
 some thing over and over.
  
  On the other hand, the two player feature of Fight Night makes it one of the funnest games to play 
 out there. If you and your friends have a competitive bone in your body, you will love this game. 
 Getting into the ring with one of your friends for 10 or 15 minutes begins an array of shouting, 
 trash talk, and laughter.
  
  If you are looking for a fun game to play with your friends, or at parties pick up Fight Night 
 Round 3 now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lokiisback
Rating: 8.3
Date: Apr 21, 2007 8:07 am PT
Review:  It's hard to believe I'm not still playing this game, I just got burnt out of playing it further... 
 Not the best thing to hear on a review, but it's the truth. The game play is very well done, and 
 the graphics can be passed on as photo realistic. As a matter of fact, I was playing this at my 
 grandparents house once, and my grandfather walked into the room and he said, oh, Hopkins is playing 
 tonight? That really made me crack up... On the story mode it will have you going through your 
 champions career, and in between each fight, you will be training for the fight, doing mini games 
 that can be fun, but easily mastered. The game can go on forever if you want it too. You could 
 be 150 years old and fighting, but you'll loose every time. My character retired at the age of 
 40 and he was undefeated. You get the point... If you like boxing, then this game is a must buy 
 for the XBox 360......... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stellos5
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 19, 2007 9:19 am PT
Review:  The game has great gamplay. Amazing graphics. Furthermore, it is highly addictive. In terms of 
 boxing games this is the Michael Jordan of the genere. I love this game and have spent many hours 
 playing it. It is fun to play with a group of friends because the fights can always be turned with 
 a a fighters chance. I can't wait till FN4. I do wish they had more boxers in it like Mike Tyson 
 in his prime and George Forman ect. However, I'm happy with the career mode. I wish in the career 
 mode they made it more realistic to a fighers lifestyle such as promotions and advice on who to 
 fight and who not to fight. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WeeMouse
Rating: 9.7
Date: Apr 18, 2007 6:03 am PT
Review:  i play this game like theres no tommorow i play, gears and rainbow six vegas but since i got this 
 game i cant resist beating the daylight out of some guys face, this game is awesome a must buy 
 for you fight fans. the graphics are awesome and the realistic fighting stanses and desciptions 
 and modes and weights for fighting make the game much more enjoyable, it has great online play 
 too
  the game also consits of great detail and graphics, the multiplayer play is also outstanding both 
 on one screen enjoyable fun for any age!!
  if you wanna game on gears, rainbow six, fight night, or ghost recon just add me to your freinds 
 and ill b happy to kick your ass!!!
  my gamer tag is WeeMouse 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smurfboi
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 17, 2007 10:52 am PT
Review:  Fight night is a really good game with great graphics. The graphics are so good they include little 
 things like the boxers getting more sweat as the fight goes on and blood gradually trickling down 
 the fighters' faces after the are hit with a hard punch. To punch you use the right analogue stick 
 to make the action of their hands. This takes a bit of getting use to and you'll soon find yourself 
 just wiggling the stick aroung instead of aiming your punches. I you do master it it can be a lot 
 of fun and very tactical. There are three new punches in fnr3. These are the haymaker, flash KO 
 punch and the stun punch. These are activated by cranking back your arm before you punch. If these 
 hit they cause a lot of damage but if you miss you are open to attack. If you hit with a stun puch 
 the game goes into 1st person where you can attack your opponent and see what they see. This is 
 great fun but happens rarely.
  The preparaton before the fights is also a lot of fun where you can select what trainer you have 
 and you can then play a training mini game on what you want to train for.
  The only things that let fight night down, apart from the terrible advertising (you can even get 
 the burger king man as your trainer) is the difficulty. It starts off ridiculaously easy butgradually 
 gets harder until you find yourself just blocking and hitting body punches.
  But, in general this is a great game even if you dont know a thing about boxing and its an easy 
 1000pts. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mzaher
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 13, 2007 8:33 am PT
Review:  I am in love with Fight Night 3. I have tournaments at my place almost every 3 days. I have made 
 people who never held a game pad, become professional playing it. they come to me to play it and 
 it is THE only game they play. Fight Night 3 is very good, graphics is fantastic, realistic, the 
 career mode is ok, but the real fun in the game is playing it against your friends, not online 
 though. if you always have friends at your house who like to waste time with you enjoying the 360, 
 FN3 is a must have title. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maddog202
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 11, 2007 5:21 am PT
Review:  I recently bought this game for Xbox 360, even though it is one of the oldest games, I play it 
 nearly everyday! The graphics are amazing on this game, the boxers look so real, and the online 
 multiplayer basically makes the game! I personally love the replay after you get knocked out! the 
 spit drools out of your mouth and the punch sounds like a crack, there is some really realistic 
 sounds and the games music is acceptable, the game play is fun, its very easy and exciting to make 
 combos, its definitely value for money as you can pick it up for cheap. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alkaline_DnB
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 11, 2007 7:58 am PT
Review:  After EA Sports' failed attempt at the first great new-gen sports game a la Madden '06, the crew 
 quickly comes back to deliver the knockout punch with Fight Night Round 3, the follow up to one 
 of the longest running boxing series in videogame history.
  
  Fight Night continues the brawl on the Xbox 360, sporting an overhaul in the graphics department 
 that truly takes advantage of the latest hardware. At fist glance, its quite obvious how gorgeous 
 the player models and atmospheres look over the predecessors, with dust particles floating around 
 in the dimly lit overhead lights of the gym to the drops of sweat that drip and shine on the boxers 
 bodies. So many minor things look so good running on the Xbox360 as opposed to the Xbox or ps2, 
 such as flyers on the walls, spit buckets, even the animated crowd. Everything looks utterly smooth. 
 Deliver a devastating punch that puts your opponent on the canvas, and youll really see the attention 
 to detail in the replay.
  
  I think Ive actually spent more time watching the knockout punch in slow motion than the time 
 it took me to get to the point of knocking out my opponent.
  
  Wind back and let the leather fly with an aggressive scream. Your glove morphs on the point of 
 impact as your rivals cheeks ripple from the blow, a streaming mixture of blood and spit fly from 
 their sideways mouth accompanied by the sound of bones cracking as their head snaps back. Their 
 eyes roll to the sides, cross as if looking at the tip of their nose, then up to the ceiling as 
 their knees buckle and their legs give out, stumbling backwards and crashing down to the floorquite 
 amazing to watch and well worth a few repeats.
  
  The ragdoll physics are put to good use, but can also be somewhat unrealistic at times, although 
 thats not necessarily a bad thing, as it can be quite comical when it looks like your opponent 
 is having a seizure with serious convulsions as soon as they hit the mat from a wild haymaker. 
 Also, there are minor clipping issues where arms fly through arms, but go generally unnoticed.
 
  
  I do the like the tight controls, and the analog sticks are much easier and fluid to use than the 
 face buttons, plus the action seems more like a fighter than a sports title.
  
  However, as great as this game is, there are still a few things that really stand out to me as 
 irritating. Customization is not as great as in previous installments. Your entrance music always 
 stays the same Akon tune, which is more played out than the rapper himself. Also, as your popularity 
 grows and you become a more well known professional, you have no options of upgrading your entrance 
 with flashy lights, fireworks, lasers, or a flock of doves as you could before. Just the same gaudy 
 walk to the ring as when you started as a nobody. And why does my fighter not walk around with 
 his championship title strapped around his waist after hes fought so hard to win it? Not sure, 
 exactly.
  
  One other major bug Ive noticed is that you can only have so much detail on your fighter before 
 the game starts deleting a few accessories. For example, say you want to add a bunch of tattoos 
 or whatever to your fighter, you also want a buzzed haircut and you want your face shaped a certain 
 way other than that of an eggyou just cant have it all. The tattoos and head shape might stay, 
 sure, but start the fight and all of a sudden your hairs missing! What?! Also, if you start a 
 new career with a character you build from scratch, and you make your fighter totally ripped with 
 maxed out muscles, you just absolutely cannot speed train with the combo dummy. You will lose ALL 
 definition, tone, and muscles, and your characters body will go back to looking like it did when 
 you were in middle school. Its insanely stupid. Not sure why that major bug wasnt caught and 
 fixed, but hopefully it wont be an issue in the next rematch... I would also like to see my opponenet 
 stumble and fall out of the ring between the ropes with a brutal hit, but that's wishful thinking.
 
  
  All in all, Fight night is a great addition to the Xbox360 lineup for any boxing, fighting, or 
 sports enthusiast, and should not be missed. A 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RedPanther95
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 8, 2007 3:34 pm PT
Review:  Fight Night Round 3 is an awesome awesome game. Not only was Fight Night 3 one of the Top 10 360 
 games for a while but it still is one of the most purchased EA games. Here's my review...
  
  Gameplay: The carrer mode is solid and fun. YOu start out as an ameautar fighting in the Windy 
 City Boxing Gym and then as farther u go the bigger the venues get the Staples Center and Madison 
 Sqaure Garden just to name a couple. There are 8 achivments 3 ESPN achivements (Wed Night Fights, Fri 
 Night Fights and PPV) one Burger King, one Dodge, one Everlast, the EA Sports and Under Armour. All 
 add up to 1000 gamerscore points. The fighters include Muhammad Ali and Smokin' Joe Frazier along 
 with at least 15 more fighters. In ESPN Classic mode (rival mode) the greatest rivalies of all 
 time are avilable for play. Ali vs. Fraizer is my favorite. The fight store is FULL of awesome 
 content too.
  10 out of 10 Graphics: The graphics are flat out awesome. The blood that comes out looks better 
 than real blood i have to hand it to EA there graphics on the PS3 and 360 look better than some 
 sport broadcasts in real life (espically CBS) . But sometimes they shake uncontrollabley which then 
 again they may have that diesease.
  9 out of 10
  
  
  GOOD BUY!!!!!!!!!!!!!1
  
  $24.99 
::::::

::::::
UserName: instantdeath999
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 1, 2007 1:19 pm PT
Review:  Fight Night 3 is the only boxing game I have ever really liked. Its fun, while forcing you to think 
 a bit to win, assuming you dont use illegal blows. It turns out to be one of the xbox 360's first 
 good games. The games control scheme is unique. It uses the right analon stick as total punch control 
 . You can use jabs, and upper cuts with it, though it definitly takes getting used to. Theres also 
 the haymaker , a hard punch used by one of the actual buttons, and the illegal blows, like elbowing, 
 headbutting, or a shot to the balls. There's the obvious quick play mode, with legends mode where 
 you fight classic boxing matches (too bad I dont know any of them) , which can be fun. The main 
 one is career mode, which is extremely self-explanatory, but the most fun.
  
  The career mode starts you off as a rookie, fighting in bars, where you work your way up, playing 
 in sponsered matches and building up your name and become a millionaire. This is done simply by 
 taking matches, and training once before each match. You hire trainers, which give you an edge 
 in the certain skill they prefer to teach, where you play the minigames, from the punching bag 
 to the weights. There is also a store where you can buy new clothes and moves.
  
  On to the actual fights.... as I said, the total-punch-control is unique, and while a bit hard 
 to get used too, once you do get used to it then it will be fun to use. The fights are very fun.... 
 the game makes it very satisfying with each power punch landed. When you hurt your opponent enough 
 (or the other way around) they will start to stagger, making them a lot weaker, and if they get 
 hit much more then they will go down, and also adding an awesome replay showing your devastating 
 attack. If it is you who is knocked down, you will have to play a mini game to get back up.
  
  Another mini game is between each round you have the oppurtunity to heal your swelling and 
 cuts, which are pretty easy if you know the trick and a nice add-on. A complaint I have with the 
 game is the spoken dialogue... its awful. The first hour of play you will think it is the best, 
 because of all the varied things they say at the right times.... it will change, as they say the 
 same thing 5+ times a match, in every match, making them sound very fake. The graphics in this 
 game are downright amazing. The boxer models are amazing, hell, even the sweat looks good. Every 
 punch you do is made better, seeing their blood and sweat fly off their face, especially in slow 
 motion. The crowd.... almost every one of them, while not as detailed as the boxers, look decent. 
 I was surprised by this game. Even if you absolutely detest boxing games, you still owe this one 
 a rental (plus: 1000 easy achievment points) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thebigc123
Rating: 9.7
Date: Apr 6, 2007 10:50 am PT
Review:  I played this game resently and it has definitely made me look even more foward when i get my Xbox 
 360! everything about it is fabulous! The graphics have definitely got a 10/10, there amazing! 
 the boxers look so real, and another cool feature is the replays, when your player get knocked 
 out , it shows a replay of that punch, the punch sounds like a crack and the spit come of the boxers 
 mouth, flab vibrates! lol it quality. The game music is brilliant, the gameplay is so easy, and 
 making combos is very fun, and not that hard to figure out. Its definitely value for money! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: radx800pro
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 3, 2007 1:01 am PT
Review:  I first rented this game but then realized I would be playing it for a long time. Especially how 
 you can play in a variety of weight classes against historical and current boxers. The games system 
 on building up your boxer are very well done and fun. I can only believe the next installment will 
 blow my mind!
  
  I really like the fact that you can turn off the cheat guage that tells you how your doing during 
 a fight. When I rented it I didn't realize you could even have a guage on and this added to the 
 strategy of the fight. It wasn't till I went and bought the game and found out in the manual. I 
 highly recomend you play with the guage off to add to the realism of the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ricky-cubano
Rating: 8.1
Date: Apr 2, 2007 5:50 am PT
Review:  Well it a while for me how to do the haymaker, but that was only because my cousin kept on hogging 
 th 360 so i didn't have the time to learn. The it took a while for me to learn how to pucnh the 
 dummy. By myslef it took me about 45 minutes to learn everything. It's a game to borrow not buy 
 unless you're just coollecting games. Online the game is alright, it's just liike fighting the 
 computer on hard. They're is like 8 easy achievements and it all adds up to a quick 1000 points. 
 This is a good game for multiplayer aswell, other than that there is nothing much to the game except 
 good gameplay, great graphics and almost perfect sound. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: honkyjoe
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 25, 2007 12:02 pm PT
Review:  FNR 3 has everything a good fighting game should have. fun addictive gameplay, sweet graphics, 
 and awsome multiplayer. Before being released the main drawing point of FNR 3 was the AMAZING graphics. 
 By far the best on the 360 so far. The satisfaction when you land thet perfect punch is beyond 
 compare. When a knock down hit is thrown blood and spit fly from your opponents mouth creating 
 a very realistic experience. The gameplay plays a lot like earlier instalments in the series. The 
 thing that brings this game down from its potential is how repetitive the gameplay is. All you 
 have to do to win is throw haymaker punches over and over again. And be prepared to go crazy from 
 hearing the word haymaker a LOT! The multiplayer is good but gets boring after a while. Overall 
 FNR 3 is a kick a** game that delivers on a caliber of levels 
::::::

::::::
UserName: raine1998
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 21, 2007 9:53 am PT
Review:  When I first bought the EA Fight Night 2004, I thought, finally we have ourselves a true black 
 and blue boxing title. With a touch here and there, another few boxers, some better graphic's, 
 EA could really be on to something here. Round 2 did not disappoint with some fine upgrades, but 
 there were more improvements to be made as we were coming to a new age of gaming.
  Then the time had come, and I got my dirty little hands on Fight Night Round 3 (originally on the 
 PS2 counsel) . I was impressed, with the intense battle graphics, the new knockout punches, the 
 flow of those punches when landed perfectly on your opponents noodle, and of course the toggle 
 throttle took some time to master, but it was worth a few rounds in the gym. Overall the PS2 version 
 of Fight Night R3 was fun and very entertaining, with a lot of improvments and a great career mode 
 to boot. But as I said above, I picked up the X360 version of the game a little while back, and 
 man, it took me to a new level of bloody entertainment. To play a game you love, again.......... for 
 the first time. The subtle caving of the gloves when you get the slow motion view of your knockout, 
 the rippling of a boxers muscle and skin sheen, sweat and blood free falling from an open wound......... in 
 the sweet science of boxing, it is truly a poetic sight. Career mode and the molding of your ideal 
 version of a boxer is good fun and very detailed. The building of your career can be a bit overwhelming, 
 but true to fact in what it takes to become a true champion. I didn't like the non-title fights 
 after you have won a title though. I mean, once your the champ, it's time to prove your worth. 
 The way it's set up, you can lose 4 or 5 fights without losing your title, before you ever have 
 to put it on the line. Also, once you have won the title, I want it announced at each fight thereafter, 
 and I want that belt around my waist or in my trainer's hands above my head, showing it off, as 
 it should be. It takes long enough to get it, I want the fantasy boxing world to know it!!
  
  No matter what, the game is amazing in the ring, and has some great outside idea's to keep 
 you busy and to help you spend that hard earned cash. A few things I'd like to see in the next 
 round............
  
  1) more vintage and current boxers, so many are missing (Sonny Liston, George Foreman, Lennox Lewis, 
 Larry Holmes, are a few just in the heavyweight division. If it's a money or licensing thing EA? 
 Find a way!)
  
  2) I wanna see that belt around a champions waist!
  
  3) A replay function as an option to watch a great battle after you've just won the title in an 
 amazing 11th round knockout. Or, just to watch a great knockout from a ton of angles, whatever...... etc.
 
  
  Those are just a few idea's, I'm sure there are tons of good suggestions from many a gamer who 
 enjoyed this title. All together, it is a truly awesome boxing game and with a few tweaks, I would 
 put it in my top 5 of all time. Good on ya EA, keep it up,.............. we'll be waiting.
  
  The Bloodboys Review 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WTA2k5
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 17, 2007 9:13 am PT
Review:  The Fight Night series returns and hits the next-gen consoles for the first time and is better 
 than ever. Fight Night Round 3 is a knockout.
  
  The game recreates pretty much every style of offensive hitting and defensive blocks very well 
 and as you progress throughout the game, you unlock more. Definitely the coolest feature of this 
 fighting system is the use of the right analog stick. For example, if I quickly move the stick 
 to the side, my character will jab his opponent square in the face, if I rotate the analog stick 
 from the bottom up to the top, he will do an uppercut. This style of play is very cool and is much 
 more intuitive than just mashing buttons, because you can always know what you're going to do, 
 but at the same time it can sometimes get to be a button masher (no other term for this scenario.)
 
  The game also has a stats building system, though it isn't to heavily based on it. You can improve 
 your character's strength with punches, stamina loss rate, torso and face guard and all around 
 speed. This system is pretty cool because you will notice some changes from fight to fight after 
 your training sessions, but the game is still always based on skill, not stats.
  The game has a few different modes that are all pretty fun. There's a career mode where you can 
 make a custom character and have him rise from being unknown to being a pro boxer. There's a mode 
 where you can just pick from any of the boxers featured in the game and fight and finally there's 
 a very interesting mode where players are put in important rivalry boxing matches from throughout 
 history and grow to create some pretty awesome scenarios.
  The online and local multiplayer are fun, but aren't very deep. There isn't a whole lot of customization 
 in terms of what you want your match to be like, it's simply about pounding each other's faces 
 in, which is fine, but its not very deep. The graphics in Fight Night are for the most part pretty 
 good. You have awesome looking arenas to fight in and the character models mostly look believable 
 (though the models are sometimes borderline plastic-y.) The lighting effects are also well done 
 but the ragdoll physics are pretty over the top a lot of the time and there's actually a lot of 
 clipping issues involved with them.
  
  The sound quality is pretty good. The effects are good and you really feel like you're down in 
 the ring. The licensed music is also pretty good. The real flaws in the sound are the announcer 
 who talks so much he'll get behind in the dialogue he's supposed to say when it's actually happening. 
 Also, if there's not a lot of punching going on (which is pretty rare) there's pretty much no sound 
 at all.
  
  Fight Night Round 3 will last a pretty long time. Getting from rookie to pro in career mode will 
 take about 10-12 hours and the multiplayer is interesting for a little while anyway, but there's 
 not much reason to go back to what you've already beaten in the game.
  
  The game all in all is extremely entertaining. The graphics and sound are great and the gameplay 
 works amazingly well. The game also throws a slew of interesting modes at you that should keep 
 you playing for a little while. Fight Night Round 3 is an awesome game that any gamer could have 
 a good time with. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: X360Gurl
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 16, 2007 6:07 am PT
Review:  Boxing - Knock you're opponent senseless to the ground. I never really fancied boxing myself, even 
 though i like the WWE (smackdown vs raw and all) . The only boxing game i've got is on the Wii and 
 that's bloody tiring! What about if you could really box legends like Ali and Frazier with out 
 swinging you're arms about or getting punched in the face? But still feel like you're part of the 
 action.
  
  Well fight night round 3 does that! The graphics even if their not in HD are simply incredible, 
 if all games put that much detail into little things like the crowd or the fibers in the air floating 
 about we'd never critisise graphics again! That's the main thing about this game, however the total 
 control punch system works a treat! I seriously recommend this game to anyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zombieman666
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 15, 2007 4:38 pm PT
Review:  There may be some minor quibbles about the AI, but this is as spectacular a sports title as you'll 
 find on any console. It's one thing to have incredible visuals in a game, but Fight Night Round 
 3 for the XBox 360 is probably one of the first releases in recent memory that gets so much depth 
 from them. The sweat and blood, the bruises and the bumps -- these are not mere showpieces. They're 
 necessities in a game like this because EA Chicago wants to create the most accurate depiction 
 of the sweet science that it can. In other words, it's pretty, but with a purpose. The audio programming 
 is similarly motivated: commentary and ring effects are not viewed as extras, but as essentials.
 
  
  Behind this more-is-more philosophy is a terrific game with lots of options. Fight Night Round 
 3 is a deep and engaging title with good control schemes and rich modes. It's a game that both 
 the tactician and the button masher can embrace, because it gives both plenty of room for enjoyment.
 
  
  Are some of the fights simply too easy? Perhaps. But that's not a terrible indictment for the first 
 boxing game on the XBox 360. Since EA Sports' previous ventures on the console have been generally 
 awful, any slights about the AI of the boxers is simply a petty gripe.
  
  This is a great sign of things to come for frustrated 360 owners. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tinty69
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 11, 2007 12:14 pm PT
Review:  IF you want a game to make you feel like a bad ass..... look no further. Play single player and 
 learn the ropes. Then take it to the online mult. This is where all the fun is. You can beat the 
 crap out of all those trash talkers. (Except all of those people who play way to much. I think 
 they watch to much Matrix. So what Im saying is you will get your ass handed to you more than once 
 no matter how good you are) The graphics are just beautiful! Can Round 4 look any better. If it 
 does I may just crap myself. A note to anyone who has both Ps3 and 360. Get the 360 version. Its 
 a lot better in my opinion. I owned both I liked the game so much, but the Ps3 controller didnt 
 feel right and the extra mode wasnt enough. I think the overall graphics are better on xbox as 
 well. The women in ring look better on Ps3, but tell me how that makes my game play better. If 
 you only have a Ps3, you still must own this game. This is a must for graphic whores and brawlers...... and 
 even ballers! LOL 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stonzreaper
Rating: 8.3
Date: Mar 9, 2007 2:35 pm PT
Review:  Well i like to start off with the specs :D
  
  Great gameplay, Great graphics, Could improve the modes instead of just career and quickplay, Can 
 improve on the acheivments, can improve on the creation of characters, can improve on the training 
 modes.
  
  Anyways theres nothing to it but boxing . They have all the greats. (but no mike tyson.) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: culverchp
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 5, 2007 9:59 pm PT
Review:  This is awsome to get into. The new controler setup has a bit of work to figure out. Even with 
 that setback; Set it to CONFIG 6 and letter rip!!!
  With that setup you don't get the super stun hits or knockdown hits... and thusly you kinda get 
 BEAT DOWN by the npc's that utilize them.
  Have fun with this one.
  
  Totaly Rude... you need to have 100 minimum words to make a stupid review? oh well Bla Bla Bla 
 Bla Bla Bla Bla Bla Bla Bla Bla Bla Bla Bla Bla Bla Bla Bla Bla Bla Bla Bla Bla Bla Bla Bla Bla 
 Bla Bla Bla Bla Bla Bla Bla Bla Bla Bla Bla Bla Bla Bla Bla Bla Bla Bla Bla Bla Bla Bla Bla Bla 
 Bla Bla Bla Bla Bla Bla Bla Bla Bla Bla Bla Bla Bla Bla Bla Bla Bla Bla Bla Bla Bla Bla Bla Bla 
 Bla Bla Bla Bla Bla Bla Bla Bla Bla Bla Bla Bla Bla Bla Bla Bla Bla Bla Bla Bla Bla Bla Bla Bla 
 Bla .... there's your 100 words for ya!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dupe576
Rating: 7.7
Date: Mar 4, 2007 5:26 pm PT
Review:  Let me first say, if you have a lot of friends that come over and play on your xbox.. this game 
 is a must have. I repeat.. a must have. This game is one of the most fun multiplayer games that 
 I have. Maybe not as much so for online play, but watching your friends face get crushed as you 
 connect with a monster haymaker... is just priceless. They should make a mastercard commercial 
 about it. And the smack talking possibilities are endless. Playing online also can have its moments.. 
 although if you do, you better bring your A game. because people on there are really really good. 
 Other than that.. this game sucks. The single player is so boring that its not even funny. All 
 the fights feel exactly the same and there is little to no way to know how you are progressing. 
 You'll find yourself fighting what seems like an endless string of randomly generated characters 
 with the occasional real life big name fighter thrown into the mix. The training sequences in between 
 do a bad job to break up the monatomy.. and you'll probably find yourself very quickly resorting 
 to just pressing the autotrain button. So in conclusion.. I'd say this game is worth trying simply 
 for the multiplayer. If they just did a little work at spicing the single player up this game would 
 be infinetely better... so I can't help but feel a little bit dissappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: musicalmac
Rating: 8.2
Date: Mar 3, 2007 4:27 pm PT
Review:  Boxing has never been one of my favorite sports, but this game sure gave me a reason to learn more.
 
  
  Graphically the game is stupendous. The player models are spectacular, and because of the detail, 
 the idea of a health bar is non-existent. Health is shown by the wear of the boxers. For example, 
 if you keep with the jab, moving around, you'll start to notice his nose blowing up, and flattening 
 out. If you like to throw big hooks, you'll see his eyes start to swell, and may even draw some 
 blood.
  
  The sound is good, too. Nothing so special it's worth mentioning. I do like the crushing sound 
 of a hard blow, though.
  
  The gameplay is great. Some may not like the total control boxing style, but I managed to get used 
 to it after a few fights. You throw and block with the right stick, and it can be difficult to 
 get used to. Once you get it down, however, it is much better than simply using the buttons to 
 box.
  
  All in all, I'd say it's a great game. It's totally worth the 30 bucks it costs now.
  
  RSB 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OGTiago
Rating: 8.6
Date: Mar 3, 2007 4:30 am PT
Review:  It's late in the fifth round. Frazier's looking wobbly from all the punches I've landed on him 
 throughout the fight. I figure now's the time to put him down for the count. I go for a left hook 
 to drop him. He parries the punch! All of a sudden I see him bringing back his fist to deliver 
 a devastating left hook to my jaw. My reflexes suddenly kick in and I quickly lean back just as 
 the punch nears me. His misstep has allowed me to deliver a powerful counter haymaker. He drops 
 to the canvas. I head back to my corner with my fist in the air, knowing he's down for the count.
 
  
  Fight Night Round 3 has landed on the Xbox 360. After playing for hours on end, this has got to 
 be one of the best boxing games ever. It's so much more immersive than any boxing game I've ever 
 played. It combines near photo realistic graphics with a stellar fighting engine to create one 
 great game. If you're a fan of boxing games, pick this one up. The odds are you won't be disappointed.
 
  
  Let me get this one thing out of the way right now. This is one of the best looking games ever 
 made. Each boxer looks near photo real. At a glance, you&iquest; d be hard pressed to tell this 
 apart from a real boxing match. The visuals aren't just there to make the game itself look good. 
 No, these visuals also play a big part in the way the game is played. EA has decided to do away 
 with the HUD for the Xbox 360 game (however, it's still there if you want it) and use the 360's 
 next-gen power to make the game even better in its absence. Without the HUD there to tell you how 
 injured your opponent is, you have to rely on your opponent's body language to give you that information. 
 If your opponent is moving sluggishly around the ring, dropping their hands, they&iquest; re worn 
 out and it'll only take a few more clean punches to drop them. If their face is bruised and bloody, 
 you can inflict more damage by landing clean punches to that area. It's amazing how much more immersive 
 this game is when you eliminate the HUD. If you allow yourself to be sucked in, which won&iquest; t 
 be that hard, you'll really feel like you're in the ring with your opponent.
  
  The single player game does a great job training you for the game's main event, the multiplayer. 
 The career mode is a bit on the shallow side. It starts off incredibly easy, even on the hard difficulty 
 and takes a while to ramp up. Once it does, some opponents are a little too difficult. One of the 
 main features, the Rival system, is not nearly as well developed as it was hyped to be. The only 
 difference between a Rival fight and a normal one is that the announcer will say things like, these 
 guys just don't like each other . Before a few of the fights, you'll see a cutscene of the two 
 of you at the weigh in and you'll get to see your character being sucker punched and then you'&iquest; re 
 on the defensive end of your rival's punches from a first person perspective, just like if you 
 were hit with a Stun punch (more on that in a sec) .
  But, if there's one thing wrong with the single player experience, it's the computer A. I. The A. I. 
 is incredibly weak and often predictable. For example, sometimes they'll cock a punch back well 
 before they deliver it, giving you ample time to set up a defense lowering parry. Once, during 
 one match, I didn't even look at the screen for an entire round and I knocked them down. Not good. 
 Another round, trying to test the A. I., I put the controller down for an entire round and the A. I. 
 failed to score a knockdown. Most of the time, they just moved around me, blocking punches I wasn't 
 even throwing and barely throwing any punches of their own.
  
  The game does seem a little lacking in terms of real world boxers. I would've liked to see more 
 classic and present day fighters on the roster. The robust character creation system remedies that 
 quite well. In the right hands, people can create amazingly realistic looking versions of real 
 boxers, or anyone else.
  
  One of the main criticisms of its predecessor Round 2 is the ridiculously unbalanced haymaker system. 
 In that game, you could throw nothing but haymakers throughout the length of the fight with little 
 recourse. Round 3 has balanced the haymaker system, making it much more of a challenge to effectively 
 land one. If you try to throw nothing but haymakers during the fight this time around, the game 
 is going to make you pay for it. Haymakers are easily dodged or parried and take longer to unleash. 
 This gives your opponent time to counter your punch and put a serious hurt on you.
  
  New to the series is the impact punch. These punches are designed to change the course of the fight 
 quickly and drastically. There are two impact punches, the Stun punch and the Flash KO punch. The 
 Stun punch can be very effective if it connects. When it does, it instantly shifts the view of 
 the fight to a first person perspective of the person who was hit. During this period, the player 
 who landed the punch has to land a few punches to put their opponent on the canvas. The defending 
 player has to block or parry the incoming punches to stay on their feet. The Flash KO punch is 
 the most devastating punch in the entire game. If it connects, it instantly drops your opponent's 
 health bar to zero and puts them in the KO moment and only a few more punches will put them on 
 the mat. This punch is particularly dangerous because it drops your health bar even if it's thrown 
 as the first punch in the fight.
  
  Of course, these punches have their failings, just like all haymakers. These punches take even 
 longer than regular haymakers to unleash, the Flash KO being the longest, and give your opponent 
 plenty of time to lean out of the way or set up a parry. Missing can allow your opponent to really 
 mess you up. The best way to ensure that you connect is to parry your opponents punch. This will 
 sometimes give you the time you need to unleash these punches.
  
  Now onto probably the best part of the game, the multiplayer. This is what will keep you coming 
 back. The multiplayer is handled incredibly well and is exponentially more challenging and entertaining 
 than playing against the A. I. Whether you're playing against someone in the same room or over the 
 internet, the matches are always exciting and unpredictable. Playing a multiplayer match is far 
 more fulfilling and engaging experience. There&iquest; s no way to effectively predict what's coming 
 next, like in a real boxing match. Online matches were incredibly smooth and lag free, something 
 that's very important to this game, where the slightest delay can give you or your opponent the 
 time needed to counter with a well timed parry or dodge. The online lobby makes it very easy to 
 hop in and out of a match. EA did a very good job in crafting the entire online experience. I never 
 had a problem setting up or finding a match to my liking.
  
  To wrap things up, Fight Night Round 3 is easily the best game in the series, hands down. It rebalances 
 the incredibly unbalanced haymaker system from the last game and actually adds a lot more strategy 
 to the game. The graphics are simply a sight to behold, and the removal of the HUD provides a level 
 of immersion not found in other games, including the other versions on previous generation consoles. 
 The A. I. could've used some work and the career mode lacks real depth but other than that, it's 
 very hard to fault this game. The multiplayer will definitely hook you long after you've put away 
 the gloves in the career mode. This is quite possibly the best boxing game ever made. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: billydakid2k3
Rating: 8.6
Date: Feb 26, 2007 10:34 am PT
Review:  This game has one of the best feeling controls in my honest opinion. The visuals are awsome aswell, 
 but the best part of the game is its online mode. I hate the advertising in the game though, but 
 i do love the soundtrack. I wish there were more boxer, I mean it would be a whole lot better if 
 they had at least 5 more boxer, and why did they get rid of some of the boxers they had? I hope 
 ea dont mess this game up like Madden and NBA Live, its ea sports best sports game i think. All 
 in all, Fight Night round 2 was better, but I do love Fight Night round 3. Its a great game, its 
 well worth it to own it, on any game system if your a boxing fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fman12
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 16, 2007 1:47 pm PT
Review:  I'm not big into sports games but this one is great. The graphics are incredible and the gameplay 
 is smooth and easy to learn. The create a character options give you a big enough range that nobody 
 in the world would ever be able to have the same boxer as you. The difficulty is challenging but 
 not to hard. It gives you the feeling that you are trying but also are able to take in the awesomeness 
 of the game. It is a very addicting game and once you start it will be the only game you play for 
 a couple weeks I promise you. It is easily the best fight night ibn the fight night series. I can't 
 wait till the next one comes out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: edwin03
Rating: 8.1
Date: Feb 15, 2007 11:44 am PT
Review:  This is a great game. As I started to pick my boxer, I was like Oh snap, look how real and detail 
 these boxers look. Oscar dela hoya looks like im really in front of him. The Graphics alone just 
 make you say i cant wait to start playing. I Feel the Graphics is the best in the business. Some 
 say Gears of Wars but man look how great these player models are. Anyway now i get started to play 
 the game. The animations are great. The only downfall in the gameplay is that i feel the movement 
 on some of these boxers are too slow. But when playing as Ali you change your mind about all that. 
 Ali moves and punches and looks like himself in everyway. I just feel players like roy jones should 
 be a little faster, but thats ok. Also they actually stop fights for cuts and bruises that is cool. 
 I just feel they bruise to easily in the game. But who cares i like that in a way. Also i wish 
 that fights wouldnt be so short. I am always trying to get a fight to the 12th round and i could 
 never do that , because i would have already knocked out the computer way before the 12th round. 
 Career mode is ok, except when you start to notice how many times you keep fighting the same boxer 
 over and over. Not enough boxers in the game. Big downfall to game. Career mode is not so packed 
 and full of things to make you feel that your really a boxer. Career mode just bores you after 
 a few boxing matches. Playing with friend will be so fun to play this game. but if you play this 
 game by yourself you wont get the full excitement of this game. The commentators do a pretty ok 
 job. no complaints to them, but they can do a better job. Overall a must buy At $30.00 and especially 
 if you got friends to play with. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Calcheesmo
Rating: 9.8
Date: Feb 12, 2007 12:48 pm PT
Review:  Fight Night 3 is the best boxing game I've ever played. It really is. I love this game. The crisp 
 graphics are flawless. I love this game. It really takes a while to get good at this game... yes 
 you can fight anybody after about 10 minutes if you understand the controls, but if you expect 
 to actually last in the fight against a veteran player, you'd better practice up before you get 
 dissected in the ring by a great boxing strategy. I like this for the fact that if you are good, 
 you won't lose to some chump that gets lucky, I mean you really have to be bad to lose to a bad 
 player. The three complaints I have with this game are as follows. #1 is that if you don't know 
 the boxer and his fighting style, you may end up losing a fight you shouldn't. For example, I was 
 playing my little brother's friend before the super bowl. He picked Bernard Hopkins and I can't 
 remember who I picked, some guy, same weight class, looked like a fair match. So we both have the 
 same general fighting style, get in each other's faces, and slug it out. He kept knocking me down, 
 I was beating the piss out of this kid and he would not fall. He knocked me down 4 times and it 
 was the 8th round. I knocked him down for the first time and he was gone, didn't have a chance 
 at getting up. He was mad I won, and didn't believe me when I told him that it matters who you 
 are. He disagreed, we had a rematch, but switched players. In this fight I knocked him down twice 
 in the first round and knocked him out in the 2nd. BIG DIFFERENCE. I just wish it would tell you 
 what the boxer is made to do, to stand in there and fight or to pick his opportunities, it doesn't 
 tell you, granted it's very accurate so if I knew boxing I'd know, but in all reality, I don't 
 know many boxers. So all in all, go through the boxers and see which one goes with your fighting 
 style the best, as I said this is my gripe, but in retrospect, it's what makes the game so realistic.
 
  
  My #2 complaint is that the haymakers are way too easy. If you are good at the game you can usually 
 just block them and beat the crap out of your rookie opponent, but it still gives them a better 
 chance then they would have to knock you out if the haymakers weren't so easy.
  
  My #3 complaint is miniscule.... why do you pay $25,000 for a special trainer? At least when I went 
 to hire him, he made no difference for my boxer, did absolutely nothing.
  
  If you read my reviews, you'd know that I **** about games a lot but that doesn't mean I think 
 they're bad. These three gripes are basically meaningless in the overall experience. This game 
 is the best boxing game to date and hopefully EA continues to improve on such a wonderful series. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ameglino
Rating: 8.3
Date: Feb 12, 2007 10:42 am PT
Review:  I made a promise a few years back that I would never buy any sport games. Since due to the fact 
 they are continuously producing new one with hardly any new features. But that was until I picked 
 up a copy Of Fight Night Round 3. And HOLY CWAP!! EA Chicago has done an amazing job in developing 
 this game.
  
  I love all the optional features that you can choose from. From the classic matches, where you 
 can fight the memorable moments in boxing history or you can mix them around. And in the career 
 mode, you can create your own fighter and begin there boxing career.
  
  Once you enter the ring, everything looks amazing. From the surrounding background to the fighting. 
 Everything felt so real and detailed. I love the moment when I punched my opponents to a KO. Everthing 
 slowed down to show the fined detail of blood and sweat flying off from them. The punching system 
 was hard for me to figure out for a while but it didn't took long untill I was KOing everyone at 
 a much faster rate.
  
  All and all the game was a great piece of work. The game can be repetitive for a while which you 
 need a break from. Difinitly from hearing all the opponent's coaches which they sound like Morgan 
 Freedman But I'll be ready for a another match some time sooner. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dom_boi14
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 10, 2007 10:31 pm PT
Review:  ok this boxing game is the best one out of any boxing games, out of all the new boxing games coming 
 out 2007 this one i think will still remain at the top also the modes you can play or friggen sweet 
 like you can go from 3rd person to 1st and in alot of the old games already did that but i still 
 think this will be the best the best the best... this game is really fun and you have to try it 
 out and if you have it you can fight some sucker online... oh add me online if you like WuTaNg14 
 see you online......... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jack-The-Ripped
Rating: 8.9
Date: Feb 10, 2007 5:43 pm PT
Review:  It's a good game. It's a frustrating good time. I've had hours of fun playing it. But the real 
 fun of this game, is when your playing with like 5 other of your friends and you get to beat the 
 hell out of each other. The single player is easy at first, but it gets real hard toward the end. 
 It's very fun though. Stratigy is a nessessity if you want to excel at this game. Over all this 
 is a great game. This game honestly rocks. If your a boxing fan, all your favorite boxers are in 
 it. The only thing i didn't like about it.... Rocky Balboa wasn't in it. I know i know he's not 
 a real boxer. But still it's rocky. And Rocky is the best of all time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: philip19922
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 4, 2007 8:10 pm PT
Review:  I'm not a big fan of EA sports games, but Fight Night's great graphics, intense gam-play, and sound 
 was to good to pass up. The slow-motion knock-downs and cracking noises just makes you say wow! 
 The multi-player on-line and offline is fun. The only bad things about this game is that they need 
 more boxers and arenas and EA's ridiculous in-game advertisements that EA is known for. Especially 
 the Burger King coach. One other thing that bothers me, is the crowd. Only three different looking 
 people and they all have the same animations. But other than that, I recommend this game for anyone. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AL13NK1LL3R
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 2, 2007 11:22 am PT
Review:  the graphics in da background is soo real it just make u feel like u in the game zone and forget 
 what everything happen around u. the sound of punch is soo good and real!! theres no button smashing 
 in this game.. u have to use anloge stick to punch the playar which is good for multiplayer! the 
 only areas that i dont like is the ai keeps runnin away from u in some areas which is kinda make 
 u mad.. Same great control mechanics found in previous Fight Night games; lots of great boxing 
 legends to test your skills against; great player models on ps2 and xbox, and amazing models on 
 the xbox 360; gruesome sound effects make you cringe when you hear a guy get smacked in the face. 
 --- aaggree 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crazygamer1
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jan 31, 2007 9:40 am PT
Review:  Gotta love those words! There's no better feeling than training your boxer and then taking him 
 into a fight and getting the KO. Sad thing is I just got this game because I saw it got a price 
 drop. If I had known the game was this much fun I would've paid full price. I just got the game 
 yesterday on a whim passing by the electronics section and I started a game in 'Career Mode' when 
 I got home. I went through 2 title matches, am currently undefeated with 5 KO's. I can't wait to 
 play some of my friends, it's going to be a blast. Definitely worth it for the price it's at now, 
 so if you're like I was and didn't get it because you didn't want to pay full price, now' the time 
 to get it. You shouldn't miss out on this game, very addictive. I'm not even a boxing fan, many 
 of the fighters in the game I have no clue who they are but man this game just looks and plays 
 awesome. Really I think the only real complaint I have about this game is that I wish they would've 
 spent more time on making the ring girl models a little more realistic. Would've been nice considering 
 how great the rest of the game looks. Love the training mini-games... adds a little depth rather 
 than just going from fight to fight. Player models look amazing, announcers are spot on (though 
 a little repetitive) , overall very fun. Again if you don't yet have it, go get it because it's 
 worth the lowered price. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: italianman1203
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 22, 2007 6:06 am PT
Review:  This was my first 360 game and i enjoyed every minute of it! From the intense fights to the insane 
 graphics, this started me off on the right foot to the next generation. The good: Graphics, gameplay, 
 INTENSITY, and selection of fighters. The bad: Some moments in career mode, minor graphic glitches, 
 wish there was more meat to the story so i can imagine being the great boxer that i am in the game. 
 So to sum up..... buy this game because u will be satisfied no matter who u are. From the intense 
 single player fights to the one on one multiplayer against ur friends who are the most satisfying 
 to beat, u won't want to miss out on this experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mr_Krinkle9210
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 20, 2007 2:17 pm PT
Review:  Fight Night Round 3 is the sequel to Fight Night Round 2, and for the most part it plays the same. 
 You still use both analog sticks to move and punch, and you still use the triggers to lean and 
 block. The only real change to all this is that your boxer seems to swing and move alot slower 
 than in Round 2. Also your powerful haymaker swings are really easy to parry and when they are 
 parried, the opponent can really smack you around. This makes the game have a slower pace, and 
 make you really think about your punches. Overall the gameplay is still great, but is a little 
 rusty.
  The graphics and sound are really some of the best things in the game. The boxers are really detailed 
 and move realisticly. You can see them sweating and grunting as they get punched and it all looks 
 great. The sound is terrific. When your punches land you can really hear them and they're satisfying. 
 Fight Night Round 3 is kinda more of the same really, it plays just like Round 2, but it just got 
 a new coat of paint. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xantiriad
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jan 15, 2007 6:37 am PT
Review:  FN3 features breathtaking visuals and is a solid and enjoyable fighting game.
  
  Gameplay: 8
  Before the sport was ruined by the moneymen &amp; having a farcical number of belts, 
 boxing was something that I would enjoy watching. I wasnt sure how well boxing would translate 
 to a console (and never played FN1 or 2) but FN3 really captures the intensity, brutality and strategy 
 of genuine boxing. The use of the analogue stick for punch control is inspired, and you can produce 
 some amazing looking combos. The fighting is complimented by an excellent career mode that features 
 a traditional ladder of fights and fighters, mixed with RPG based character development via training 
 mini-games and bonus apparel.
  
  Graphics: 10
  The graphics are sensational, if not perfect. The level of detail and quality of the animations 
 is simply breathtaking. Sweat, blood, speed, human movement, and weight are all portrayed incredibly 
 realistically. The backgrounds and tertiary effects are also brilliant: in particular the fantastic 
 handy-cam view during the fights.
  
  Sound: 9
  The sheer quality of this game extends to the music and sound effects with a great sound track 
 and brutal boxing noises: teeth smashing, jaw breaking, ribs cracking, urrgg! - its all there.
 
  
  Value: 7
  The achievements are pretty straightforward, but they do become more challenging as your progress 
 through the career mode and the fights get tougher. FN3 also features XBL play as well as a number 
 of other game modes in addition to the core career mode. There are also a number of licensed fighters 
 and venues thrown in to recreate classic bouts. However, given the asking price, there is a lot 
 of in-game adverting and sponsorship, which personally I find a little distasteful for a game that 
 was &pound;50 at retail.
  
  Tilt: 9
  A quite brilliant fighting game that really captures the atmosphere, brutality, and enthral of 
 professional boxing. FN3 features amazing visuals, sound, and immersive gameplay, making FN3 an 
 essential XB360 purchase for sports-game fans. -- I just wish I bought it when it came out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Timdadog
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jan 15, 2007 4:22 am PT
Review:  Third in the series and 1st time on the xbox360, FN3 is the best you can get in boxing games. If 
 you were 'round (or saw the videos) at the E3 360 showcase, you would have seen the cutting edge 
 graphics from this game. The players look nothing short of realistic to most console games. Firstly 
 the gameplay has been improved dramatically for the 360 title. The game speed has been slowed down 
 a bit (compared to the old one's) and there're a couple of new punches (as in the way you get to 
 punch) added to the game. The game features a couple of game modes including career, quick fight, 
 relive legend fights ect. In career mode, you can choose one of the existing fighters or creating 
 your own (within diff weight classes) , and build up his career from amateur to pro boxer. The sound 
 is fitting to the game, especially when landing those powerful punches (warning: it's only a game, 
 please don't get mad at your buddy) , as well a the crowd and commentator. On the bad side of things, 
 I'd say the repetitive feeling you get from almost all the cpu fights is really boring. Another 
 thing is the number of unlockable fighters and items, it's very limited. Otherwise, it's a good 
 title and would appeal to all those sports fans.
  Good for the boys during beer nights, show each other whose the man. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sirpimps
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 13, 2007 6:04 am PT
Review:  Gameplay: Gameplay was fun and easy to get into. Very addictive to play and fun lasts for a very 
 long time. No real major bugs.
  
  Graphics: The best graphics ever in a game. Period. Facial expressions of hurt boxers are simply 
 unbelievable. Lots of blood and sweat flying everywhere. Even the crowds look awesome.
  
  Sound: Some great sounds of boxers faces being shattered when knocked out. Soundtrack is great. 
 But more sounds should have been added in.
  
  Value: The career mode is a little skimpy, but still very fun. Lots of fun to be had on xbox live. 
 Many other modes like relive a legend and straight boxing.
  
  Overall: One of the best boxing games ever. Definitely a pick up if you have a xbox 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jus2nyce
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jan 11, 2007 8:01 pm PT
Review:  One of the only games I have played that I can actually call a next-generation game. This game 
 really comes out well playing at 720p, apart from graphics the VO announcers were really sound 
 authentic, so it really draws you into the gaming experience. Although there are some faults like 
 the shaky storyline and dull character creation the game really does make you feel that you are 
 actually in the ring.
  
  Multiplayer in this game is just amazing, just like in an actual boxing match a single punch can 
 turn the tide on your opponent. Online is a MUST to get the full value out of this game.
  
  My only rant about that the game is the first-person boxing is not available to toggle in and out 
 off. And also the subliminal avertising is just outrageous, the burger king mascot is your coach? 
 More of a gimmick... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yandor
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 9, 2007 5:47 am PT
Review:  There's no denying that each 'Round' in the series improves. Graphically, of course, this one is 
 astonishing. The attention to detail is incredible, especially on the boxers. These fighters look 
 great. The core gameplay will be familiar to those who've played previous versions, and if you're 
 new to it, it won't take long to get in the swing of things. While in the ring, you really feel 
 like everything your fighter does is because of what you are doing; true total control. I like 
 the new additions to the mix, and find the 'switch to first person' actually kind of cool. Some 
 minor gripes would be the career mode. You're not 'ranked' anymore, simply fighting a series of 
 boxers that improve your popularity. Each of these stages are 'sponsered' by an actual product 
 or company, e. g., Dodge, Burger King, ESPN, etc. so there's no escpaing the advertising, which 
 I suppose makes it all the more real, but I found it a bit overdone. Also, the play-by-play gets 
 tiring as he repeats himself . . . though not nearly as much as in Round 2 (How sick of the word 
 Haymaker did any of us get?) . I found that when I turned him off and cranked up the sound effects, 
 the matches were blisteringly real. The default clear HUD forces you to watch your fighter's face 
 and body to see how he is withstanding the fight. His eyes move and his chest heaves for breath. 
 He sags when tired and his arms slow with exhaustion. And all of it is brought to life with very 
 high quality sound. If you're a fan of the series, this is a must-have! It's absorbing, and utterly 
 addictive. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: towelie123
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 5, 2007 11:17 am PT
Review:  To say this is one of the games i play the most ( alone sometimes but more often with buddies) 
 and i dont even like boxing. i got this game for my birth day .... was disapointed..... until i tryed 
 it and it just grew on me! The graphics and very well made , versus mode is just the best part 
 of it , but the career mode still has its fun facto.
  so i recommend this game for people who like a challenge when playing with buddies since it gets 
 less boring after a while.
  But the controls are a bit hard to ajust at the begining but is worth it to learn since there seems 
 to be alot of games using this system ( the godfather for example) .
  this game is worth the time yours truly..... Me 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CRIPPL312
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jan 4, 2007 3:32 pm PT
Review:  Round 3 looks like a great game and plays like one to for the most part. Considering i didnt play 
 Round 2 some of features were new to me. That being said, my initial reaction to the game was overwhelming. 
 That died down soon after since the core gameplay had not changed. The major element that i reacted 
 to was not the haymaker or flash ko but the speed of the fighters. i heard it slowed down a bit 
 in Round 2, but i never got to see it first hand. The change in speed is quite noticable compared 
 to the first fight night. To me that turned me off from the game a bit, but it is more realistic. 
 The career mode is on point but the lack of a ranking menu really pulls you out of the experience. 
 Fighters are a lot more realistic in looks and styles than before and the venues are really good 
 looking in HD. i would prefer that the game have more authentic intros for the fighters rather 
 than the same repetious two tracks. Round 3 does play like a next-gen game but it could surely 
 be better. I would recomend this game to any fighting game fan and absolutely for any boxing fan. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: robjr
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jan 2, 2007 1:47 pm PT
Review:  The best boxing game to date thats for sure. Fun online aswell. I find the career mode really lacks 
 though. And there should be wayyyyyy more boxers to choose from.. Amazing graphics and gameplay. 
 You have truly full control of your boxer, EA did a great job. A nust own for any boxing fan, or 
 even if your not a boxing fan this game really grows on ya. You can always create some of your 
 favorite fighters aswell. Another great thing this game has going for it are the many boxing styles 
 to choose from, along with punching style aswell. They seem to take a big step up every year with 
 fight night. I cant wait for the next one if there will be one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cjserkland
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 30, 2006 5:04 pm PT
Review:  This is one fun fighting game! The graphics are second to none and due to the fact that there is 
 no HUD, or interface of any kind, save for the face that you're beating, it is totally immersive. 
 The gameplay and controls are a unique and wonderful option to play with. No button mashing in 
 this game! The game requires the use of both joysticks to do almost all of the fighting, giving 
 the players a sense of being there. The player must keep in mind and play accordingly to the sport 
 of boxing's rhythms. Once you feel the flow of the game animate your leather boxing gloves you 
 will enjoy slugging your opponents mutton chops to a bloody pulp.
  
  If you have to get only one fighting game this season I nominate this one. See ya in the ring! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marolia
Rating: 8.6
Date: Dec 29, 2006 3:55 am PT
Review:  This is my first time playing a boxing game ....
  and from what I see this game is great fun.
  It's really fun to play with your friends or even 
 online play.
  The only problem in this game is that there's no Story mode....
  and you just have to fight with the boxers and win.
  
  The graphics are awesome. It looks really 
 real from the characters.
  The audience in the game are also well made.
  The Gameplay is good.
  The sound is awesome in the game.
  
  When you're a fan of boxing I 
 think this is the right game to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: B3H1NDBLUEYEZ
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 27, 2006 5:46 pm PT
Review:  I got new 360 with my eye on Fight Night Round 3. So I went to my local best buy and picked it 
 up. I was somewhat disappointed. It just seemed all too familiar. Its too similar to Fight Night 
 Round 2, in my opinion. For example, the knockdowns seem to be old and the game play overall seems 
 repetitive. Don't get me wrong its still a solid game but I fee like I shouldn't have wasted my 
 money on it. I would have happily paid $40 but not $60. Though I am disappointed with this game 
 I am still looking forward to Round 4. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stray18
Rating: 8.7
Date: Dec 20, 2006 1:23 pm PT
Review:  Hey People
  
  Now this is a person who never saw boxing as a good sport, up until now! I have never played a 
 fight night in my life, and I wanted another game for my 360, so I went to EB and got this game. 
 The first match I played was with my friend in a quick match, and I have to say, when I layed the 
 first knockout blow to him, my face droped, we both cringed as leather him him right in the nose 
 and broke it. The amount of contact sound and animation in the game is insane, from the hair physics 
 all the way down to the physics in the coach's t-shirt as he gives you fight advice.
  
  The Graphics in the game are the best! I have ever seen on a console, The fact that you can make 
 your own charecter from the ground up is a BIG boost in gameplay. and with tattos and all other 
 nick nacks make's it a DEFJAM type set up. But then you think He wont look as good as Ali or any 
 of the other pre-made charecters in the game ...... WRONG! You charecter will look like a pre-made 
 charecter himself! The coach advice in SP and MP are well done, it feels like even if the coach 
 says something 2 times round after round it feels different, and the mix mach sentences that the 
 coach and commintator give are vary fluent for a game. And as I said befor they seem to sound different.
 
  
  This is The Best sport game to date! And has got me hooked on Boxing for the rest of my life! I 
 am now a BIG fan of the sport and the game! Do yourself a favor, if you dont have this game for 
 360......... get it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jay_k3
Rating: 8.6
Date: Dec 19, 2006 11:56 am PT
Review:  My first impressions of this game was how real it looked. The background and the fighters clobbering 
 each other. This is a great two player game. You have various players to choose from. There are 
 current and past greats that you can play in this game. You have various control settings which 
 is a good thing. You have an option of six different controller settings. You can primarily focus 
 on the left and right stick for movement and punches, or you can have a button option. You have 
 the option to train and create your own player as well. This game is intense especially when you 
 are playing against another person. Whether you are a fanatic when it comes to boxing or not, you 
 should get this game. It is just fun to play especially on xbox live. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pdwaiter
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 17, 2006 8:04 pm PT
Review:  Ever since EA ditched Knockout Kings back in 2003, the Fight Night series has been the undisputed 
 champion of video game boxing. The first installment, Fight Night 2004, was a wake up call for 
 fist fighting; a new control scheme correlated analog stick movement with different types of punching, 
 and superbly satisfying knockouts were like a booster shot of masculinity. But in two years much 
 has changed. Foremost, a new generation of gaming has pumped hardware technology to the point of 
 near physical perfection, and for a sport that is based on bone breaking, what more could one ask 
 for? Well heres a couple of things like some of the small glitches and some of the scetchy controls 
 but over all i would go and rent it first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shotgun4292
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 14, 2006 10:39 am PT
Review:  Fight night round 3 is a great boxing game and should not be overlooked. This game has great gameplay 
 and a great way to box using the analog sticks. You actually feel like your boxing. The game also 
 shows off the 360 power and what the 36o is capable. The knock out punch is another good new feature 
 that we didn't see round 2. The game is fun to play on XBOX LIVE as well. The game has a great 
 career mode where youn go from the bottom up. The career mode is a great mode and alot of fun. 
 This game will last you long time and I mean a long time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drpepperman12
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 14, 2006 5:23 am PT
Review:  This game has it all. In a series which is very good, this is the best one in the series. Well 
 its the first on the 360 and wow it looks absolutly amazing seeing indviual sweat, and there face 
 just getting smashed is breathtaking. The career mode is absolutly amazing and really fun with 
 few many games. I have found the most fun in multiplayer. With its great next gen. graphics its 
 hard to pass this highly addictive game. This game got me addictive to boxing and should be a staple 
 for what boxing games should be. The pure boxing stick control stick is inntative and absolutly 
 a great addinition this game got everything must buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lateralus01
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 13, 2006 12:57 pm PT
Review:  This game is amazing and definitely the best boxing game out today. The graphics are mind blowing 
 and almost creepy-realistic. The coolest part are the injuries. The controls are also very well 
 done. I personally like to use the buttons to punch but the joystick is fun sometimes too. The 
 only thing I have to say, though, is about the sound. The punches sound nice but the music is ALL 
 RAP and the announcers are HORRID. Like seriously, the announcers have probably 10 things to say. 
 Your advice giving trainer is also equally moronic (I actually box) . It also would have been cool 
 to have a little more customization in your characters enterance and introduction.
  
  That aside, this is a great game and an excellent way to show off your 360. So turn down the speech 
 and turn on your own stereo and have some fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tunaface
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 12, 2006 5:46 pm PT
Review:  I was honestly shocked at how great this game actually is. The only reason that I bought it was 
 because they had it reasonablly priced at gamestop for a used copy. I usually dont get into sports 
 games other than football, but now Im hooked. The hd on this game is sick. The fights are so friggin 
 awesome, especially if you can continue to land hits. Well, I really dont know what else to say 
 about this game, especially because I've never reviewed anything before. I bought 3 games with 
 purchase of 360 ( actually have 4 because PGR comes with xbox360 now ) , and of the 4 games ( call 
 of duty 3, gears of war, project gotham racing, and fight night round3 ) Fight night round 3 is 
 by far my favorite. I hope this information is helpful to someone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cobydes2569
Rating: 8.6
Date: Dec 12, 2006 4:44 am PT
Review:  This is a fun game that has a little bit of everything. The graphics in this game are pretty good. 
 I enjoy knocking someone in the jaw and see the pain expression on their face. This realism brings 
 emotion to every one of your fights. The sound is good. I just wish that all of the music was not 
 rap. The gameplay is really fun, but kind of easy. I found myself playing a career, going through 
 people left and right. The only good matches that I had were with my rivals. I love the rival system 
 because it drew me in to the game. I found myself really disliking my opponents (rivals) . I only 
 wish that you could choose your rivals. Overall, I really enjoyed this game. The only fault that 
 I saw was that once I finished my career, I found myself tired of the game (not really a fault, 
 just a personal opinion) . This is a must own for the sport-loving gamer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AlexJesus90
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 10, 2006 10:45 am PT
Review:  This game is a really good game. I love to watch boxing and play boxing. The graphics are top notch. 
 The blood, sweat, cuts, and bruises are amazing. I like how you can fix up your own guy when hurt. 
 This game makes it feel like you are coaching your guy. The only problem was not the game but the 
 pain in the fingers after playing a while. This happend to all my friends too. Thats the only thing 
 I dont like about boxing games in General. This is is highly recommended. Buy the game but don't 
 play for too long of a time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ncaa4life
Rating: 8.4
Date: Dec 7, 2006 1:12 pm PT
Review:  Fight night round 3 is a great game this i would say is the best boxing game out. The graphics 
 are so good on the next gen they took it to a whole new level. On this game you have no fighting 
 health bars so it makes it more realestc and it sucks you into the game. If you like boxing games 
 then this is the game for you but there is some down sides to it. Once again there are not alot 
 of boxers and that is dissapointing so if your looking forward to playing with ledgens like Larry 
 Holms or Joe Louis sorry there not on here well if it sounds good to you go check it out later 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darthragar
Rating: 9.9
Date: Nov 30, 2006 5:57 pm PT
Review:  i really didn't care too much about boxing about 9 months ago. then i played this game and could 
 not pull myself off the controller. the graphics are one really strong point in this game. the 
 cuts, bruises, sweat, and leather on the gloves look amazingly realistic. when i was playing it, 
 i had hit the mat fast because i admired the graphics too long. when my character was knocked down, 
 i fell to the floor. second off ,the gameplay is also a strong point. AI is strong when you choose 
 the right opponent. before i starting fighting my friends i had to knock out featherweights for 
 practice since i use to suck so much. once you get online, or challenge friends in the room a fun 
 experience sucks you into the game so much that you'll be creaming your friends for hours. There 
 is a wide variety of boxers to choose from as well.
  
  The sound design is quite well done. The hard hits that are heard go well with game. The sound 
 design on knockouts is so great that you'll be celebrating to that noise when you hear it quite 
 a bit. The soundtrack in this game fits very well too. you kind of like the songs on it, but be 
 warned. These songs play so often that soon you will tired of it.
  
  The game's lifespan should last a very long time. The price tag is 60 dollars, but it is definitely 
 worth such a large price. At the end of the day, you'll love playing this game. Keeping it is a 
 great bonus to it's owners. If you want this game, then it's definitely worth it. Only complaints 
 are the songs repeated a lot. That's about it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: buddycuffs
Rating: 8.6
Date: Nov 21, 2006 9:00 pm PT
Review:  It's extremely entertaining, especially with multiplayer but the lack of features bring it down. 
 There is one... not so fun mini-game in between rounds to heal your boxer, which could have been 
 a lot better. The controls are a little quirky. The advertisments kind of get annoying, the announcers/cornerman 
 commentary gets old very fast and the career fights are just the same thing over and over again.
 
  
  The one redeeming facet that really gives this game 90% of its fun is the multiplayer especially 
 when they are sitting next to you instead of Xbox Live. It's thrilling and really gets your blood 
 pumping to try and beat your opponent, and the big hits/haymakers always give you a good laugh.
 
  
  I'd reccomend this to anyone interested in seeing people get hurt and having a good time with your 
 friends watching it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dopeboy31
Rating: 8.6
Date: Nov 21, 2006 2:56 am PT
Review:  Fight Night Round 3 is a pretty good game for XBOX 360. The Controls in this game are pretty easy 
 if you have ever played fight night with few minor changes. The create a boxer is pretty in depth 
 now with different stances and punching styles, but also more could have been added. My biggest 
 problem with fight night round 3 is the repetition in the career mode its the same pick a fight 
 train fight do it all over. This game is good but EA sports could have done a better job on this 
 game. Multi player and online is where you will have the most fun in this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maxx_photo
Rating: 7.7
Date: Nov 19, 2006 7:21 pm PT
Review:  The game is a good attempt at boxing with new ways to trigger big hits, but it takes a while to 
 learn how to use the big hits... then it becomes almost too easy.
  
  Fight Night Round 3 is a good boxing game with a lot of story behind it. You start off as an unknown 
 boxer and build your way up the ranks to win the title. Then you continue on to win the titles 
 in the other weight divisions. Getting there can be a bit of a pain though.
  
  You end up getting your own rival, which is someone you'll fight several times throughout your 
 career, but it's another unknown fighter. I would have liked to see a random star be pitted against 
 you with lesser stats that improved over time.
  
  The fights are pretty good. The computer has several fighting styles for you to overcome, and once 
 you learn how to beat them, you'll be facing boxers who use different stances and techniques in 
 combination with the styles to keep them fresh. It will, however, become a bit repetitive by the 
 first time you beat the game.
  
  What will really, really bother you though, is the repetition of the training sessions. You have 
 three exercises to choose from. Each helps you in a different way, and you can hire expensive trainers 
 to help you gain more from each exercise. It doesn't matter what you do though, these will begin 
 to annoy the stuffing out of you. But you have to play them through, because simming the training 
 sessions in the beginning of the game will get your fighter behind your opponents in stats, and 
 in the latter parts of the game, there'll be no way around seeing your fighter's stats drop.
  
  The graphics are awesome, especially in the closeups on huge punches, but even that will get 
 old. There are only a few different cinematics of the punches, and they too, will get really, really 
 old. I found myself memorizing the different blood/spit patterns spewing from the fighter's mouths 
 as they went down and checking to see which I would cause next. This is a good buy, but make sure 
 you wait to find a good price on it, especially if you don't play online - where each fighter will 
 genuinely have a different style. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rhody1976
Rating: 7.7
Date: Nov 19, 2006 12:45 am PT
Review:  I rented this game a week ago for the X-Box 360. Graphics are brilliant, and overrall, it's a good 
 game. But I don't enjoy it anything like I enjoyed the first game. Why? The physics of the models 
 are more realistic now, but not half as fun to watch. I remember my friends and I laughing our 
 rears off with the old knockouts (characters flopping and bouncing) ... we'd design ourselves and 
 just watch the games play out over beers to see the hilarious and satifying knockouts. Sometimes 
 realism isn't as much fun as the flaws... some games have become classics over flaws (tribes etc) 
 Other letdown was the player creation tool: yeah, you can make ppl look like boxers, but not all 
 of us are boxers. No grey hair? no aging? again, I understand the realism angle, but do they honestly 
 think that most gamers have the bodies of proffessional boxers? Next time, I'd love to see an optional 
 mode to bring back the ragdoll physics and a more open ended creation tool to incorporate players 
 of all types. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sonofares
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 16, 2006 1:41 pm PT
Review:  Fight Night Round 3! Well, well, well, what can I say about this incredible game? This is some 
 of the most fun I've had with a video game. The absolute best boxing game by far ever made. The 
 realism, the fight/punch controls are the best . They feel so natural cause you use the right stick 
 to punch (though you can switch it to the buttons if you want or both which I like to do) . You 
 can fight against other boxers online one on one and there's some great compettion. I believe there's 
 3 difficulty levels that you can switch mid-career if you like. The career mode is really great. 
 YOu can upgrade your stats as the game progresses. You can buy new fight gear like gloves and shoes 
 that will improve your performance. The training has mini-games which you train before every fight 
 to boost your stats. The real thing that makes this game fantastic is that it is truly NEXT GENERATION 
 in every sense of the word. You see, it uses the superb graphics to their fullest potential. Instead 
 of a health bar that shows your fighter weakening, you will see your fighter's eye start swelling, 
 you may see a cut or two and blood start trickling. You can even fix your cuts with a cut man and 
 help stop [ the swelling between rounds on your eye with your corner man and that's a mini game 
 in itself. But you will see your fighter take damage as the fight goes on..... if he's being pummeled 
 you will see him become fatigued.... he will slow down..... his punches will lack that snap. So the 
 graphics are being used as they should because you can see every drop of sweat on the fighter, 
 you can see every cut. So there is no display on the screen, it's just two fighters in a ring battling 
 it out and your health meter is the body of the fighter. I can't wait to see what's next in the 
 Fight fNight series!! A down-right fantastic game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jessefromh-town
Rating: 7.8
Date: Nov 14, 2006 6:44 pm PT
Review:  i loved it in the begining but now i don't. it was just too short. after i beat career mode three 
 times and got all the extras there was nothing really to do. i did this on the hardest difficulty 
 in four days, playing a good eight hours or so. it should have had more modes or something. it 
 was a great game but way to short. also it has really bad hit detection which means the fighters 
 gloves like always go through the opponents arm or leg or face instead of making contact with it. 
 i'm sure it was really hard to avoid that but still it makes it look pretty bad. graphics are great, 
 hit detection is bad. the game play is great and it is highly addictive. i'd just wait for it to 
 lower in price to buy it. its is worth 60 buck for like a week then its just kind of over. now 
 if you have x box live that might make you play a little longer but still i shouldn't be done in 
 a few days with it. thats why i think it was lacking. good game, low content. its worth buy but 
 just be warned, it is short if you get good at the game quick. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EscoDaddy14
Rating: 8.4
Date: Nov 11, 2006 7:38 pm PT
Review:  EA finally brings something very worthy to the table in the form of an excellent boxing game. I 
 dont even like boxing all that much, but this game deserves a must play.
  
  The graphics are extremely realistic for an early 360 game. The player models and cinematic view 
 makes you feel as if you are actually there. The sweat just gleams off the boxer's realistically 
 modeled bodies. When you're about to knock your opponent out, the game slows down, and if you connect 
 on a good hit, the boxer receives a devastating blow and blood spews, which is great.
  
  The gameplay itself is nicely done. You can box using the 4 buttons, or using the Total Stick Control. 
 Both allow for smooth gameplay, and it doesnt ever feel off balance.
  
  Overall the game deserves a must play for anyone looking for smooth boxing fun. It can get a bit 
 tedious at times, and repetitive in the long run, but the game is too good to pass up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: usmcjdking
Rating: 7.8
Date: Nov 11, 2006 6:35 pm PT
Review:  FNR3 is a major improvement over Round 2, which was a downgrade from the original. This game is 
 alot of fun for boxing fan, and boxers (such as myself) . EA tries to deliver a little bit with 
 extra tidbits, like the BK King, the totally RANDOM pre-fight confrontations, the rivalries, and 
 so on and so forth.
  
  Unfortunately, all those are in vain as it truly does not penetrate into the upper-echelon of sports 
 gaming. I'm not claiming, failure, as it is fun... but this is nothing like the beautiful art known 
 as the sweet science, and any fighter will be able to tell you that.
  
  If you like sports games, haven't tried a Fight Night yet, and still want to, this is definitely 
 worth the money. But don't expect an immersive game that will leave you wanting more after the 
 first 20 hours, or your first (and probably only) career during career mode.
  
  Things they could add:
  Include real fight footage to be unlocked from some of the best fights.
 
  Include infighting techniques.
  Make the rivalries a little bit different.
  Space the fights farther apart.
  Break the stats down more!
  Get rid of the buttons ALLTOGETHER. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SOADToTheMax
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 10, 2006 10:57 am PT
Review:  Fight Night Round 3 IS MY FAVORITE FIGHTING GAME TO THIS DATE!! One of the games best features 
 is its ability to bring you to the fight. with superb lighting effects and well made ringside graphics 
 this game feels like you really are going toe-to-toe with Roy Jones Jr. at Madison Square Gardens. 
 The game also has the best punching controls that I have ever used. I love to make my own string 
 of combos instead of having to mash in several different punch buttons in a certain order to get 
 a three punches which only hits a few times a fight. The punch stick brings the create a boxer 
 mode to be a boxer mode. The tracks on the game are pretty good to. Now whenever I am playing a 
 boxing game I think of Akon and Topic singing Never Gonna Get It. I love the slow-motion replays 
 of the blood coming out of the opponents mouth then watching them struggle to get back on their 
 feet. The announcers become part of the game and you don't always know what they are going to say 
 (That is until you hit your 24 hour when the commentators magic all becomes the same loop of sayings) . 
 In between rounds and before the match you have the ability to prepare in mini-games, (My favorite 
 is the heavy bag.) this is a good addition to make the fights turn around or to improve your character 
 in between matches. The only flaw that i found in this game is how I get so involved in this game 
 I sometimes slam a controller or two......................... or three. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tig1979
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 10, 2006 10:50 am PT
Review:  I have to say out of all the 360 games i own this has been one of the most addictive by far! Starting 
 with the graphics.... what can i say absolutely stunning when watching in HD some of the KO Punches 
 look totally amazing level of detail is immense everything looks nice and sharp and i like the 
 fact EA have left off all health bars power bars etc. Going onto sound i found the menu songs to 
 be a little repetitive after a while, not really my kinda music anyway but no biggie, the sound 
 of the punches are again fantastic, the commentators sound really good aswell even though there 
 is a lot of repetition in what they say it doesnt sound badly edited and fits well together, its 
 also useful to know where you stand in the fight if your not sure, if your about to go down the 
 commentators will say something along the lines of you look like your on your last legs, also listen 
 to your corner man inbeetween rounds they can give you some good advice on how to fight the next 
 round. Lastability of this game is never ending as far as im concerned ive unlocked all the acheivements 
 and it does get kinda easy after you have unlocked everything but still so much fun. Content....... Now 
 this is where the game slips up to me, being from the UK and only seeing one british fighter from 
 the fighters available seems a little short, i mean we have the likes of Calzaghe and Amir Kahn 
 doing so well at the moment, and if you look in the past some true greats like Eubank, Benn, Prince 
 Nazeem etc where are they all? We seem to be missing some big names like Tyson etc too who would 
 be a nice unlockable (maybe licencing or something there?) When playing online for example there 
 are only 4 lightweight fighters to choose from which to me lets it down a bit with the power of 
 the 360 would liked to have seen a much bigger roster, who knows maybe downloadable content or 
 fight night 4?? Online.... this one gets me a bit also, played quite a few fights with my friend 
 and its an awesome experience and being able to chat whilst fighting is awesome! Couple of issues 
 with this though, firstly when fighting online guarantee unless u set the fight up yourself your 
 gonna end up on the right hand side of the screen which after playing a million rounds from the 
 left hand side can be quite confusing, wouldve been better if both players saw their view from 
 the left, secondly when playing ranked matches this is an incredibly hard game, i beat all my buddys 
 never lost a fight during the career mode went into a ranked match and bang 3 punches 3 knock downs, 
 whether this was a cheat or he was extremely lucky i dunno but it did put me off, out of the 50 
 fights online ive had i can name the fights i felt where fair on one hand, some would last 8-9 
 rounds and i had no complaints with losing or winning there. Overall though damn near perfect, 
 few slight glitches which will hopefully been ironed out for FNR4 or some downloadable fighters 
 which would be nice, other than that buy this game it is a corker and real good fun to play with 
 your buddys. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darth_brett
Rating: 7.6
Date: Nov 2, 2006 8:21 pm PT
Review:  FNR3 is one of the 360's better sports titles that I have played and it definitely is the best 
 boxing game I have ever played on any system. The game lets you create your own custom player and 
 encourages you to play through a career as you gain notoriety and prestige to be the champ. Graphically 
 the game is a sight to behold. Every punch, every accidental (or intentional) elbow to the head, 
 every knockdown is truly breathtaking and awesome to watch unfold. The game really showcased what 
 the 360 can do in the looks department. The sound is also very good and adds to the overall feel 
 and excitement of the boxing world. Controlling your fighter is also very easy and by the end of 
 your career you will be jabbing and weaving with ease around the ring. Gameplay is also very good. 
 You can train in-between fights and gain points to add to your attributes. Challenge is a bit non-existent 
 in FNR3. It is very easy to breeze through the entire game in about 3 hours. There are a couple 
 of fights that might be closer than others, but if you train right you can plow all of your opponents 
 bloody pulps into the ground in about 3 rounds. Overall, FNR3 is an excellent boxing game that 
 will be very hard to top in the future. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SwirvyIrvy
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 2, 2006 1:25 pm PT
Review:  You've read other reviews I'm hear to give my two-pence worth.
  
  I haven't played a boxing game since Mike Tyson Boxing back on the PS2 and quite frankly it was 
 awful. Despite the brilliant reviews I heard about this game I was still a bit reluctant to buying 
 it after the mental scaring that bombshell of a game left on me but I bought the game regardless. 
 Straight away I knew it was the right decision!
  
  The music isn't of my taste but it suits the game to a tee and actually gets me humming the beat. 
 The sound of the punches literally made me cringe a few times especially the thought of a lowblow 
 k. o... ouch!
  
  Well what can I say about the graphics... best looking game on the 360 atm! I can't really think 
 of a better looking game. GRAW comes close but for realistic graphics even in SD mode, you can't 
 get better than fight night atm. Even my mom (bless her) thought it was a real fight and thought 
 Muhammed Ali was back! (I think it was after a night out)
  
  I can't say much more about this game so I'll sum it up. If you're looking for a game that will 
 keep you fighting fanatics happy for hours, buy it. If your looking for a game with great multiplayer, 
 buy it! If your a sicko and enjoy watching peoples noses break... BUY IT! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blackadder89
Rating: 7.8
Date: Oct 27, 2006 3:21 am PT
Review:  To be absolutely honest, I hated previous Fight Night titles. I thought the A. I. was rubbish, the 
 graphics were mediocre, and that the punching system with the analogue sticks was useless. Fight 
 Night: Round 3 turned it all around for me.
  
  The gameplay is much similar to previous titles. The analogue system is back, only this time it 
 feels much smoother and more refined than in previous games. The A. I also seems to have had a workout, 
 and now, when you switch the difficulty to Hard, you'll note that the A. I. doesn't compensate the 
 difficulty by trying to punch you as frequently as possible, but by waiting for an opening and 
 brutishly exploiting it when it appears. The new K. O punch and Stun punch fantastically reflect 
 boxing, and the fact that one punch can truly turn the whole fight around. That is probably what 
 I like most about this newest addition: it feels very much like boxing, and reflects it in almost 
 every way.
  
  This game almost certainly one of the finest showcases as to what the early days of the 360 could 
 do in the way of graphical processing. The boxer's bodies shine in the bright lights of the arena, 
 their faces ripple as you land a devastating punch on the chin; all of the graphical representation 
 in the game, in true EA fashion, is fantastic, and is unparalleled so far on the 360... no doubt 
 that will all change fairly soon.
  
  There's a campaign mode that will keep you occupied for quite some time, as you try to fight and 
 train your boxer to the top of the world... Speaking of which, the create a boxer mode is obviously 
 back, allowing you the same amazing depth of customization, it's very easy to make a boxer that 
 looks like you, and come the next Fight Night, it will probably be even easier using the Xbox Vision 
 Cam... but we'll have to wait and see. You'll also be able to play in classic matches, often winning 
 extras if you are victorious with a certain boxer.
  
  The game does have quite a limited lifespan though, the online mode is pretty plain, and what there 
 is in the single player wont last you long; this game's life lasts in picking it up every month 
 to fight a friend, but that's about it.
  
  All in all, Round 3 feels more rounded than precious titles, and looks a lot more polished. What 
 you have here is the truest mimic of boxing that has ever existed as a game, and one well worth 
 picking up if you own an Xbox 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jc_tkml
Rating: 8.8
Date: Oct 24, 2006 4:07 pm PT
Review:  heck yeah this is the best out of all the current-gen right now of course... this game is highly 
 addictive. There are still problems with the physics though example is the face either I haven't 
 really seen one up close or its really an exaggeration of the real thing. Also when they get knocked 
 down the way they go down is different but that's just me if you have 360 and you don't have this 
 yet but it now. If you're waiting for ps3 that's just fine because they will have a new feature. 
 this is a must buy if you're a sports fan or a boxing fan. I always use Manny Pacquiao (laughin 
 out loud) just cause he represents my country 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hawk5eye
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 21, 2006 8:30 pm PT
Review:  I'm not the biggest fan of EA because everything they seem to do is rushed ready for the release 
 date without really thinking about content and attention to detail. But in this instance, I take 
 my hat off to them because they have made a good game, a great game. Overlooking the obvious faults 
 such as lack of depth in the career and longevity issues, the game is great its own respect. Great 
 visuals are always good, the sound is also great as you hear every punch and the resulting impact 
 and the gameplay is involving and can be challenging. My advice is if you own a 360, buy this game 
 and have a few friends round and try this as an alternative because it is great.
  You may be surprised, I know I was... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: uphaze
Rating: 8.6
Date: Oct 21, 2006 6:26 pm PT
Review:  fight night is one of those games that u expect to be good and guess what it is. the game in every 
 aspect i think is good. the visuals are just great. the gameplay is just very, an i think the most 
 important part of the game is that is fluent an every motion and every punch, meaning if u have 
 a fast puncher like de la hoya or someone the punches will be as fast as u expect them to be. 1..2..3..4 
 hit combos fly. like in real life . the game is awesome. the only bad part that i could see is 
 that it doesnt have a great selection of boxers. to pick from.. where is mayweather?/?????? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Erratis
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 20, 2006 7:33 pm PT
Review:  Im not a boxing fan, but after playing the demo I decided to pick this one up. Im really glad I 
 did.
  
  The graphics in this game are the best Ive seen in a game so far. Some of the boxing moves look 
 boxy or robotic but other than that, they are great.
  
  The music in the game could be much better, I found myself playing my own music after about 10 
 min, it just gets repetitive quickly.
  
  The gameplay in this game is also very good. The replay value is very high, and I dont see myself 
 getting tired of it any time soon. Some of the menus are a little cluttered, like the fight shop, 
 but once you get used to them, they are ok.
  
  They could have done a little more with the player training. Only having 3 choices on what to train 
 is a bit limited, but it works.
  
  Overall this game is great, like I said im not a boxing fan, but the game is great. I liked being 
 able to fight some of the classic matches of all times. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BiwiX
Rating: 8.7
Date: Oct 10, 2006 10:23 am PT
Review:  When writing your review, remember to keep the language clean. Reviews must be 100 words minimum. 
 We encourage you to try to get your review right the first time -- you may choose to edit it later 
 on, but by doing so, you will lose any positive feedback associated with the review. We encourage 
 you to write your review in a word processor or text editor, save it to your local disk, then copy 
 and paste it intoWhen writing your review, remember to keep the language clean. Reviews must be 
 100 words minimum. We encourage you to try to get your review right the first time -- you may choose 
 to edit it later on, but by doing so, you will lose any positive feedback associated with the review. 
 We encourage you to write your review in a word processor or text editor, save it to your local 
 disk, then copy and paste it into the posting box below the posting box below. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shawn7324
Rating: 9.2
Date: Oct 6, 2006 8:07 am PT
Review:  Even if you didn't know or didn't really care to know anything about the world of Boxing, I believe 
 you would still get a thriller kick out of Fight Night Round 3 for the Xbox 360. This game includes 
 a well secured amount of game play options, totally awesome detailed graphics, and that little 
 thump that you want from all games that make you to never want to sit down the controller. You 
 are capable of getting online and boxing against other players, and capable of creating your own 
 boxer and working your way to the top in a solid career mode. A well thought of use of advertising 
 during the game makes it feel more like real life, as does the action replay after knocking down 
 your challenger. The game includes all of the best boxers in history, and you can play as them 
 or against them. Overall, Fight Night Round 3 is one of the better looking games on the Xbox 360 
 and is guaranteed to give you a thrilling ride through the world of boxing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SKOPY291
Rating: 7.7
Date: Oct 4, 2006 2:09 pm PT
Review:  First let me preface my review by saying I am by no means a boxing fan. I have never played any 
 of the other Fight Night games either. With that being said I really like this game, it is a constant 
 occupant of my XBox 360 tray. Controlling your fighter is perhaps one of the first things that 
 stands out to me. The precision punch control system is truly a thing of ingenuity... the punches 
 are visceral and allow for unprecedented power. This same system with a touch of a button switches 
 into a block and weaving mode and really allows a person to get down and dirty with his opponent. 
 The one down side to this system is it takes some time to get used to playing like this but once 
 it is mastered you'll wonder why no one thought of it before. The constant tweaking of your thumbs 
 might also cause some initial aches in your hands... something every gamer worth his weight in 
 gold coins have ignored at one point.
  
  Graphically, this game is superb but nothing that we haven't seen before in an XBox 360 sports 
 title... and what else could you possibly do to improve this really? The characters sweat as the 
 fights go on in length and blood trickles from every point on the face. The presentation is well 
 done you can see the freckles on the backs of the girls who display rounds (though I think they 
 could have improved the girls by having a larger variety of them. There are a few points that bother 
 me in the graphics department though. They seem a bit rushed in certain spots one moment the graphics 
 are beautiful and the next you are wondering what happened here. The developers seem to love lens 
 flares because there are points where they never leave the center of the screen. Hit detection 
 can be off from time to time and some of the pre-rendered animations are awkward.
  
  On the subject of awkwardness the game feels (like the girls mentioned above) to be reusing elements 
 over and over again to make itself longer. Events are strung together but there is no story to 
 hold a career together. I find myself trying to get more money so I can buy more stuff or hire 
 a slightly better trainer from a limited list. This is the only reason to keep playing... luckily 
 it is a fun game to play, but this strung together afterthought of a career mode can get tedious 
 and encourages nothing from the player but the promise of a car you can't drive. The voice acting 
 and sound effects are spectacular but overused. The training mini games are fun at first but I 
 find myself not really caring after a little while and just auto train so I can get on with the 
 fight. Adding this little bit of stat modification is a great idea I just wish that it could have 
 been done that adds a lasting appeal.
  
  Overall a fun and engaging experience that doesn't expect you to want to play it for over a month. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: J-Rich118
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 2, 2006 2:55 pm PT
Review:  This game is a must have for the Xbox 360. Even if your not into the whole boxing thing, you will 
 enjoy this game. It is the best of the series by far and the series keeps getting better and better. 
 In this game you feel every punch that connects with you and if you miss a bunch of punches, you 
 will feel your boxer begin to tire out. The Career mode is amazing. The training allows you to 
 build your boxers attributes and become the next champ. The power punches can take a little practice 
 to get them right but as you keep playing and practicing, you will be able to do it in no time. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: isoplus
Rating: 9.2
Date: Sep 30, 2006 8:33 am PT
Review:  FNR3 is a closest thing to getting into a ring without actually getting your lights punched out.
 
  It's R-stick punch controls are intuitive and easy to master if you give it a try.
  Parrying is not an uber-counter move as it was in FNR2 which is a good thing. Swaying is again 
 quite important to any counter-punchers.
  It's also very interesting how the game gives more variety of playing styles.
  Graphics are simply 
 awesome. Sounds are above par even though the commentaries are bit on the poor side.
  FNR3 still is the game to get on x360 if you're into boxing sims. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jesusismyhomie
Rating: 9.4
Date: Sep 22, 2006 9:54 pm PT
Review:  This game is crazy! The first time I played it I was guessing that I wouldnt be impressed. But 
 I was wrong! wow. I played it on HD tv and the graphics..... ARE INSANE!!! holy MOTHER!! yeah. 
 The gameplay of this game is so fun and very amusing both graphic wise and sound wise. Anyways, 
 the sound is also pretty cool. the Crackaling of the face punch makes you want to vomit (I am saying 
 this in a good way) cause the sound is so real. its amazing. period.
  I recommend this to any person who likes a great game with amazing graphics and sounds.
  
  
 5 out of 5 Punches for me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: game_god_
Rating: 8.4
Date: Sep 17, 2006 6:14 pm PT
Review:  Maybe it's just because i don't have very much experiencer with the fight night series, but i played 
 fight night round 3 and thought, wow... this game pownz. It seems like a lot of the older fight 
 night fans didn't like it as much, and i think i can see why. I've played round 1 and 2, but not 
 very much, and the one thing i noticed is that the gameplay in round 3 is incredible... the controls, 
 the graphics... o the graphics... wow..., and the fighter accuracy, they fight like they do in 
 real life, but the career mode is, in my opinion, very dull and pretty boring and repetitive. You 
 basically fight back to back to back to back, and the only difference is that you get better as 
 the opposition gets better and you fight legends and title matches. Maybe a little bit of a story 
 behind your legend is a little much to ask for a boxing game, but it could have used something 
 more to sort of make you want to beat your next opponent every bout, and make it more rewarding 
 when you win. They also didn't have much for when you beat a legend like ali ir fraiser, you win 
 and it's like you beat any other boxer, no extra recognition or reward, jus more money as you go 
 along and the fights mean more, and the occasional popularity boost... but all in all i think fight 
 night round 3 is one heck of a game to play, not because of the career mode, but because of pure 
 gameplay. i think the rating given is the right one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tverdosky10
Rating: 6.4
Date: Sep 12, 2006 1:15 am PT
Review:  My hand hurts from having to replay the Everlast belt because I lost the final bout and have to 
 start all over. Too repetitive and you fight the same people over and over again... not even sure 
 how to get to the Everlast fight again since I'm having to start over by defending the belt and 
 playing at a different weight class. What the??????
  
  Game has good graphics but extremely repetitve. You can seriously get carpal tunnel with this game 
 using the right analog stick or the buttons. And I also find it lame that I have to buy or should 
 I say 'rent' the ring corner each bout. Going through the fight store is difficult. There are way 
 too many choices and can't even remember what you're equipped with. The tattoos... yeah, again 
 what the??? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wakko19991
Rating: 5
Date: Sep 11, 2006 7:42 am PT
Review:  This game was not whatI was expecting from a gaming standpioint. Yea, I saw the amazing graphics 
 and trailers adn was awed. The trailers made it seem like the fights were going to be fun. They 
 are not. They aren't even technically challengng from a boxing perspective. I do not meant to imply 
 it is easy, but what I mean is the 'science' of boxing seems to be missing. All matches feel like 
 nothing more than a stamina match. I should have stayed away from EA lucnh titles. Like Madden 
 06, they do just enuough to get you hooked on, but do not make it 'right' until the next 4 or 5 
 remakes. FNRd 2 had the 'science' of boxing down; I thought it would continue on the next gen system, 
 but it seems EA is starting from the bottom so they have room to improve and get us to buy the 
 'improvements' over the next 4 -5 years , that are really just a return to where they left off 
 with FNRd2. From button mashing to 'stick wobbling' as someone else stated, is what the geame becomes. 
 You can attempt to control your punches and the controls do work well, but theseemingly monolithic 
 opponents you face will have you wobbling. Lastly, the so cslled mini game that puts you in first 
 person view when you do damage to your opponent is flawed and annoying. IT's not flawed programmativcally, 
 its flawed from a sensisbility standpoint. When you damage an opponent and the first person view 
 starts, it gives you a view as if you were standing behind your opponents gloves (from their perspective) 
 so the are looking at your self! through your opponents gloves!! This is stupid. IF they must have 
 it, It should go to a first person view of you facing your opponent so that the orientation os 
 correct and you can fire off shots that way. What's more annoying is you get the same view if your 
 opponent hurts you. They could at least have been consistent had reverse d the perspective.
  
  Also the post round replays are garbage. The announcer will say, lets look at how Ali worked 
 this round and show replays of him getting his clocked cleaned. Plus the replays are short .
  
  Also, graphically the game got me from the trailers. I bought this game and table tennis when 
 I got my 360 the other daay. I played table tennis first and then this game. After playing TT, 
 the graphic i nthis game didn't look as impressive, plus the collision detection is just plain 
 bad for this to be next gen. The spit out the mouth effect is a good idea, but looks repetitive 
 and last-gen grpahically. No physics applied to the spit. It wouldn't be a big deal, but since 
 the action is in so close and they put it in the game, the generic nature of it stands out.
  
  In the end tthis game is all flash. Boxing wise it doesn execute as well as FNrd2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spongemac
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 8, 2006 4:21 pm PT
Review:  this game is O. K.-this is a good game, but it gets boring after a while. this is not worth 60  
 a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a 
 a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a 
::::::

::::::
UserName: santo4600
Rating: 2.5
Date: Jan 4, 2008 11:26 pm PT
Review:  This game gets very repetitive and very boring quick, IMO. you do the same thing over and over 
 and over and over, then buy boxer shorts at the fight store for 300 grand....? then sign contract, 
 fight, sign contract fight x5 then title fight, rinse repeat... Then buy gloves for 500 grand...? 
 yeah.... 
  
  Seems cool to rent i guess, thats what i did , thank god I didn't buy it when it first came out 
 for 60$ 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  Nothing much really to say about this game, Graphics are cool though. 
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  88
  89
  90
  91
  92
  93
  94
  95
  96
  97
  98
  99
  100 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maxos360
Rating: 9.3
Date: Sep 4, 2006 2:10 pm PT
Review:  nice graphics,... is the best boxing game i ever see.. you can finish your apponet with only ona 
  
 looking at the generation gap between versions of Fight Night Round 3, it's clear EA Chicago put 
 most of its effort into the Xbox 360 version of the game, which is the way it should be. The visuals 
 in Fight Night Round 3 are so excellent that they actually enhance the gameplay. The gameplay has 
 been revamped from what was already an excellent experience in Round 2 to a more balanced, complete 
 boxing game, thanks mostly to the new impact punch system. EA also attempts to improve the career 
 mode with the addition of rivals but, while a fine idea, it ultimately fails to enhance a mediocre 
 single-player game. Still, with an outstanding multiplayer mode, good online mode and absolutely 
 blistering impact punches, Fight Night Round 3 jumps up the list as one of most impressive sports 
 titles on the Xbox 360.
  
  
  Visually, Fight Night Round 3 is one of the most impressive Xbox 360 titles released yet, thanks 
 mostly to the gorgeous, high-resolution boxers. While the 360 version seems to run just a tad slower 
 than the current-gen version of the game, the animations are smooth and fluid, with nary a graphical 
 hiccup. There are only a few minor details worth mentioning. When you knock your opponent down, 
 occasionally part of his foot will disappear into the mat. There is also some occasional pop-in 
 with the ropes, and when you knock someone in the mouth the blood looks a bit fake, but none of 
 this significantly detracts from the awesome visual experience.
  
  The knock-down replays return from Round 2, only this time around a stiff blow will send slow-motion 
 ripples running through an unlucky boxer's face, and that never gets old. You can hit the X button 
 over and over again to watch different angles of a knockout punch, and each time you're likely 
 to induce screams, moans and groans from your friends in the room. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bioinfomatic
Rating: 8.4
Date: Aug 28, 2006 1:19 am PT
Review:  Gameplay
  
  When Fight Night Round 3 for the Xbox 360 made its way onto my desk, I have to say I was very excited. 
 As many of you know I review a lot of games, but there are a lot that are just like going through 
 the motions. And as much as I try to keep my mind as open-minded as possible, there are just some 
 games that you're more excited to put through the tests. So going into Fight Night Round 3 interested 
 to see what the final results of the game were, I have to say that the results may or may not surprise 
 people. One of the most fundamental parts of any boxing game is the career mode, which Fight Night 
 Round 3 does contain. I must say however that as much as I did enjoy my time with the mode I have 
 to say that the developers left room for improvement. You start the mode by of course creating 
 your boxer, and thus choosing the right weight class is also a key to how you want the career to 
 go. Following that you are thrown into the meat and potatoes of the mode, which basically means 
 you train, you box and you train, you box some more. The formula for the career mode is still nearly 
 identical to what we have become accustomed to for a while now. Once you get your boxer ready to 
 go there is really nothing more to the mode. The game tries to throw in this new "rivalry" system, 
 which means that your rival is going to be your arc enemy that you face throughout. Besides that 
 and some different commentary lines during those fights, there is really nothing special about 
 this idea. I liked my experience with the career mode, but I just wish the developers had put more 
 into it. As sports games grow, storylines are becoming a part of these games and I think a boxing 
 game would be a great place to implement just that. Boxing has brought about some of the greatest 
 stories in sports, and I would imagine a boxing game with some sort of path/story would be a great 
 idea. So the career mode in my opinion was a good but not great experience. The actual boxing mechanics 
 in my opinion were along the same lines. Some may wonder why I wasn't a huge fan of the gameplay 
 and my main reaction after playing the game for a few hours was that it still felt a lot like Fight 
 Night Round 2. Sure this isn't a bad thing, because Round 2 was a solid game but there were things 
 that I still felt a bit weird about in this game. One thing is the realism, because knockouts very 
 rarely happen after one or two knockdowns even as a power puncher. This to me takes away from the 
 realism of the game and therefore just makes you kind of feel like you can see the numbers that 
 are being worked behind the screen. The game does feature Xbox Live support, which I actually played 
 extensively to try and get a better idea of the average experience online. For a boxing game, latency 
 can be a huge issue, and for Fight Night Round 3 I would say that more times it did not interfere 
 with the gameplay then it did. That is of course not to say that the game always plays great online, 
 but I wish the game had more options. In the end, Fight Night Round 3 is a great game, but it just 
 is missing the great pieces to put it over the top. While I enjoyed my time playing Fight Night 
 Round 3, I just felt like there was a lot of room for improvement. Graphics
  
  Visually there is no question about it; Fight Night Round 3 is the best looking game thus far on 
 the Xbox 360. The way that the developers were able to create the boxer models is just an unbelievable 
 accomplishment, something that is sure to knock anyone's socks off. The animation in the game goes 
 right along, with the amazing character models bringing in some just smooth animation that works 
 great and never really looses its way. I have to say that I could not be impressed more with what 
 EA managed to do with the visuals. You can see that a lot of hard work went into the visuals and 
 the final results shows a definite pay off for the developers. Funfactor
  
  I am a huge boxing fan, and although the sport has been on a terrible downward trend and is losing 
 popularity by the day, if there is boxing on I usually am one to tune in. I am also a big fan of 
 boxing video games, and have been a huge fan of this Fight Night Series. Fight Night Round 3 continues 
 to be a great game that has the best visuals I have seen on the 360 thus far. But the gameplay, 
 although it works great, seems to have a lot of interesting ideas just doesn't feel like it put 
 all the pieces it needed to, together. The gameplay is solid, it works great, but I just felt the 
 career mode needed more a straight purpose. The gameplay could also have used some adjustments 
 to put the game at the elite level. Overall
  
  I have to say that although I am not giving the game a nine out of ten (although at times I thought 
 I might) , this is still a game I would highly recommend to any fan of the series out there. The 
 reason for the lower than great score is because the game just never managed to make it to the 
 next level. The visuals were amazing, but the gameplay itself needed some work in terms of the 
 realism of the fights and the interest level of the career mode. Get those two things worked out 
 for Round 4, and you will have an amazing game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cdrobins8
Rating: 9.3
Date: Aug 27, 2006 8:53 pm PT
Review:  FN Round 3 makes for a great party game. Get a bunch of your friends together and whip out the 
 boxing. Everyone will be wanting a turn on this amazingly real simulation once the face crushing 
 action begins. First off, the graphics are amazing. As the fight progresses you take damage to 
 the face and I mean it looks real. From the cuts to the swelling, EA had done an excellent job 
 in that department. The sound is great as well, each punch sounds like a sledgehammer which makes 
 it that much more dramatic if your playing with a nice sound system. If you are the type that has 
 friends over a lot or just want a great xbox live game, FN Round 3 is a great game to consider. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheNIM
Rating: 8.4
Date: Nov 13, 2006 7:39 pm PT
Review:  If you base your favorite games off of graphics and pretty visuals than this is the game for you. 
 If you are more into things like gameplay, this may be decent, but you may have a hesitation. If 
 you like games with depth and content, you may want to take a pass on this game.
  
  First off, the visuals are amazing. Possibly the best graphics on a 360 game, but it is boxing 
 so there isn't much else to focus on when it comes down to visuals. The fighters are spot on. The 
 bleeding and sweating are on point. The facial expressions are more realistic. I would like to 
 see players talk more in the ring and in the corners. That's something all boxing games have seemingly 
 lacked.
  
  The gameplay is above average, but far from excellent. Sometimes the punches are too slow... I 
 understand fatigue affects that, but it shouldn't affect it extremely in the first round and, at 
 times, I see my fighter getting tired after only throwing 20-30 punches. Combos can sometimes suck 
 too much life out of your stamina. It is still more realistic than it's ps2/xbox versions but it 
 needs some fine tuning.
  
  The depth is lacking. Not enough fighters. Career mode can be lengthy and annoying, but it lacks 
 depth. Interesting that a game can have a long career mode and lack depth. I like realism in my 
 sports games, and there isn't enough real content. Too many generic fighters that continuously 
 re-appear through the career mode. I think they should also add a confidence factor that changes 
 for the fighter constantly.
  
  It is an overall good game. You can't find a better looking boxing game. With that being said, 
 there is still a ton of room for improvement. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wayne2k7
Rating: 8.3
Date: Aug 26, 2006 12:46 am PT
Review:  Now this is what you call a boxing game. Great graphics and great gameplay and lots of very good 
 special effects!
  After you play your first fight on this game you know your onto a winner.
  The controls are relatively 
 easy, depending on which config you use. You can use the traditional Knockout Kings/Fight Night 
 control where the buttons control the punches or you can use the analogue stick to throw you punches 
 (which in my opinion makes the game feel more realistic)
  The replays of the knockdowns are a real treat with plenty of special effects and slow motion pain 
 noises!
  The career mode allows you to build up your stats of your created or one of the legends in the 
 game.
  Some fans will be disappointed that some legends aren't in this game such as lewis, marciano etc 
 but all in all probably the best boxing game around to date. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -Keltic-
Rating: 8.3
Date: Aug 22, 2006 1:18 pm PT
Review:  I've been playing this game since its release, and still not bored with it. For the boxing fans 
 out there this is a must buy. The gameplay was improved from round 2 (the haymaker fest) , EA has 
 leveled the playing field in which haymaker after haymaker is no more, making it an even fight 
 who have not mastered the haymaker shots that were so easy to do in round 2. 
  
  Career mode is aveage, you got the same training as in round 2. Fighting in career mode is ok you 
 sign the contacts you fight and gain popularity until a bar is full then you fight a champ, I don't 
 like that much they should use the ranking system. A plus in round 3 is that you do fight real 
 boxers in career mode as in round 2 they were game generated opponents.
  
  Lack of boxers in the game is what missing, there are alot of big names from every weight class 
 that are missing, adding more boxers and better features to the career would of improved round 
 3, maybe the fix for round 4. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Inapprope
Rating: 8.6
Date: Aug 22, 2006 7:06 am PT
Review:  Graphics look really stunning in some of the venues that you fight. The lighting in the warehouse 
 is fantastic. The player models are also very great looking, some of the best I've seen. The only 
 problem is the glitchiness when your opponent hits the ground, some times they look like they are 
 having a seizure until the camera switches. The slow motion knockouts are a great idea and for 
 the most part they look really good but could still use a little work.
  
  Sound: For the most part the sound is outstanding. One issue that I have a problem with are the 
 same lines being said over and over again by your trainer. I also wish there was an option to change 
 your ring entrance music, perhaps there is but I haven't found it yet.
  
  Gameplay: This game took me a little while to get used to. There are a variety of control schemes 
 to choose from aswell. Game is a bit easy and a bit short in career mode. I played it for only 
 a couple of hours and I was already through like 5 years of my career. The all around feel of it 
 is pretty great and realistic.
  
  Overall, this game is just a blast to play. Playing the computer can get pretty mechanical at times 
 but playing friends or playing online is a blast (especially when your friends are new to the game, 
 1st round KO baby!) . This game is great fun and I highly recommend it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mjhink3
Rating: 8.1
Date: Aug 20, 2006 7:48 pm PT
Review:  This for sure is a wonderful game if you enjoy boxing or not don't get me wrong, my only problem 
 with it is that they forget to put in great all-time boxers such as Hearns, Foreman, Lennox Lewis, 
 Joe Louis, Tyson, and all of the current great boxers out such as Forrest, Maskaev, Rahman, Mayweather, 
 Vargas, Mosley, and many more. It's just upsetting as a true boxing fan yet what's not upsetting 
 is the actual specs of the game including an intense career mode, cool espn classic mode, and of 
 course online which makes this game easily one of the most difficult games to play online since 
 the mastering of it can be so tedious. Overall it's not a must-buy, but I do think it's a must-try 
 because of the lovely crisp graphics when you're nailing your favorite or least favorite real-life 
 or fake fighter in the ring when spit and blood shoots out of his mouth and nose. The achievements 
 I believe are a bit too easy to get because all you basically have to do is adjust the difficulty 
 to easy and beat the career mode in a few days. I think the reason of that lies behind the fact 
 that beating the espn classic mode is so easy that they don't even make that an achievement since 
 there are so few classic battles in the game because of the missing fighters. So because there 
 isn't an achievement for beating espn classic mode they make all of the achievements 100 to 150 
 points just for beating certain milestones in your career. Once again try it to see if you're interested 
 in buying it, but I wouldn't take the chance without trying it. Hope this review wasn't too difficult 
 to comprehend, but thanks for reading... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Aurelien48
Rating: 8.8
Date: Aug 20, 2006 2:36 am PT
Review:  I hate boxing game or fighting games!!! but I tried them to rate them !!!! this game is great, 
 the graphic are nice and smooth, the value is good too, the sound is good, the gamplay is awsome. 
 I personnely hate that fighting game but for the people that love fighting game I guarrenty you 
 that this game is great. Go buy it becaus eafter single player bring over your friend and show 
 them your cool moves on them and watch trhem get knock out the first round!!! but its worth playing 
 and get beat up at it too lol!!! theres probly a 4 th one comming out soon because it will be like 
 the other sports one!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WESLY_SNYPES
Rating: 8.9
Date: Aug 20, 2006 1:21 am PT
Review:  Having played the first Fight Night on the XBOX I had thought it was the first solid boxing game 
 to come across the turnpike in a long time. And by long time I mean Holyfield on the Genesis long 
 time. What was a good game later became better when Round 2 came out however it seemed to me that 
 it was more like Round 1.5 than a true sequel. Round 3 is definitely the true sequel and the real 
 deal.
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  GRAPHICS - 10
  The first time I played Round 3 it was on the 360 and when that happened I could not go back playing 
 the older versions on a regular basis. It's that good looking. As good as the models on the PS2 
 and the XBOX might look, you have to at least play this once on the 360. The details are so realistic, 
 you can knock the sweat of the polygonal human being and look at him wince in pain at the same 
 time. The damage rendering, while not entirely indicative of the damage dealt, is as realistic 
 as any game out there. EA really did their homework on that aspect.
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  GAMEPLAY - 8
  Here is where Round 3 differentiates itself from the earlier versions. Boxing is called the "sweet 
 science" and there is a reason for that. Round Three expands the use of the haymaker system by 
 incorporating almost double the amount of types of haymakers that you can throw. Not only that, 
 the ability to turn the tables on your opponent by throwing one of your own when it looks like 
 you will be knocked out adds to the unpredictability of boxing. In earlier versions when the game 
 went into the imminent knockdown scenario an accomplished player was almost guaranteed such but 
 in this version if you are not careful or are swinging for the fences, if you get hit by your opponent 
 with a knockdown haymaker it will: A) unnerve you and B) put you on the defensive. 
  The rubber of the graphics meets the road of the gameplay in the damage system with brutal efficiency. 
 Whereas in the earlier incarnations the damage dealt to your boxer might have just equaled more 
 time spent in the cutman sequence, with the removal of the HUD in the default mode, the way this 
 game SHOULD be played, you have to pay attention to your boxers' movements and mannerisms more 
 than ever before. If someone is hit repeatedly in one spot you can spot the grimaces on their faces 
 or the slight hop dealt from a body blow you can take a proactive approach to either dealing or 
 treating damage. A small but glaring omission is the inability of your cutman to treat certain 
 cuts that are as visible as the nose on your boxer's face; setting you up to take more damage later 
 on and as a result, more time treating in retroactively. The game does an excellent job of balancing 
 benefits of either headhunting or going to the body for boxing strategies. Trying to score a knockout 
 by attacking the head means that your opponent will not be able to see the punches and therefore 
 their blocking will be hampered whereas going for the body results in their punches lacking power 
 and matches ending earlier because they do not have enough breath to answer the standing ten count. 
 Also, the Teddy Atlas Fight Plan would have also been great to have.
  The difficulty of the game is my only major misgiving about the gameplay department as there are 
 still only three settings and after you have mastered your particular boxing settings only the 
 hard setting will give you any real challenge, which are few and far between. 
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  SOUND - 8
  As with most EA games, the music selections are decent because they are from real artists and have 
 a pretty good variety, although Fight Night is mainly known for having hip hop tracks. I think 
 it wouldn't have hurt to have added some rock bands thrown in for good measure as they did a good 
 job mixing genres in the Need For Speed series (Step Up by Drowning Pool would have been excellent 
 for this game) . Joe Tessitore does a great job on commentary however I think having his partner 
 Teddy Atlas would have added more to the authenticity of an ESPN production. Another gripe I have 
 is in the knockout cutscenes there is way too much emphasis on the sounds of non-existent bone 
 fractures. It needs to be tuned so that if you hear that sounds, it would be as a result of an 
 actual bone breaking or maybe an illegal elbow to the face (though technically, you could say the 
 occipital bone is being broken but still should be heard only once a fight) . Another selling point 
 in the sound department is if a boxer is fatigued or taking a lot of body shots you can hear is 
 his breathing is labored.
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  VALUE - 8.5
  The game still has the obligatory career mode which is ok but players should have more of a selection 
 of fighters to chose to fight once you move higher up in the rankings. The EPSN Classics fight 
 is a great idea and having unlockables for it's participation is a good incentive to make up for 
 the lack of classic fights available ( I want my Ali vs. Foreman!) . There are many boxers and styles 
 to choose from which is always a plus but some people are not in this game that were in others 
 such as Lennox Lewis, Antonio Tarver, and Rocky Marciano to name a few. And for God's sake where 
 is TYSON?!? The game tries to make up for it through the Create A Boxer Mode where you can in fact 
 make anyone you can think of and there is even a website that can show you how to make anyone if 
 you take the time to send me a message. However, certain CAB stats cannot be advanced to reflect 
 their real world counterparts. The online portion is where you will be getting back the $60 you 
 paid for the game as there is never a shortage of people playing on the 360 and is where you can 
 get the true test of your skills.
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  REVIEWER'S TILT - 9
  This is the game that sold me on the 360. To me it was just that good and so did the Official XBOX 
 Magazine (OXM) which this game was the first to recieve a 10 as well as other professional reviewers 
 who thought the game is a great buy on the 360. Never has beating someone within an inch of their 
 life looked, played, and sounded so good. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spartan4Gondor
Rating: 9.8
Date: Aug 17, 2006 12:46 pm PT
Review:  This game is just fun, from your first fight on you want to be the next ali. 
  
  The Boxing in Fight night is the best you'll see in a video game, probbably until the next fight 
 night. You feel like you're in a real match, using reall boxing tactics. The corners advice usually 
 ranges from Use your speed to punch him alot, so dont be expecting a rousing speech from a corner 
 to rile you up for a comeback victory via KO. Regardless the boxing is just plain fun, the punches 
 look painful, and the boxers looks hurt when they get hit. the "BOOM" after a haymaker can staisfy 
 any gamer. 
  
  The Caree mode is where the main part of the game is, you can create your own charachter, go through 
 the amateur ranks. Go pro, get sponsored, get noticed and win the title. And nail some rivals along 
 the way. in some fights in the career mode you''be able to go against the likes of Roy Jones Jr 
 and some others. And along with this you can fight with some famous fighters like Muhhamed ali, 
 george frazier, Sugar ray leonard, arturo gatti and others. However i would of liked to see some 
 more of the current big-name fighters of todays boxing, like sugar shane mosley or Fernando Vargas. 
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: g1vemtheboot
Rating: 8.3
Date: Aug 15, 2006 10:49 am PT
Review:  Why are we not using the technology in front of us? we have other games with downloadable content, 
 why not every game? download new gloves, shorts, shoes. maybe even old technology (customizable 
 technology) design your boxer if you cant download alternatives. 
  Why are there only 3-4 girls in the game? maybe i havent gotten far enough in the single player 
 mode, but the same 4 girls over and over gets old, its not entertaining anymore and the skip button 
 is pressed everytime now, maybe that should be downloadable too!
  that aside, this game is very very fun. Going to a party where they want to play movies or soemthing? 
 bring your 360 (with the disk out of course, we all know what happens) and play this instead, this 
 game will not get turned off until everyone is too tired to wait for the next match. Graphics are 
 great, i swear the trainer looks real when you have the shot behind him talking to you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: arab_prince
Rating: 8.8
Date: Aug 13, 2006 6:57 am PT
Review:  I have never bought a boxing game before. But After I downloaded the FNR3 demo, I just had to buy 
 it the next day.
  
  This game is unbelivable. The first thing you will notice is the remarkable graphics. The boxers 
 jsut look so real. You can actually see the sweat on the boxers during the fight. And when you 
 punch someone you can see the sweat and his blood gush out from him. hahaha. The only problem with 
 the graphics are everyone else, for example the girl that hold the card saying what round it is. 
 Also the crowd. There is only like 4 different models, and they all do the same thing.
  
  The sounds are great as well. Its really disgusting when you knock someone down and they show you 
 the replay. When your fist makes contact with the other guys face, you jsut hear the bones cracking 
 and the blood moving around in his mouth, its reallly nasty the first time you hear it.
  
  Its quite fun. Highly Addictive. It has an online mode which is great when you want to play against 
 your friends and pwn them.
  
  The gameplay only got an 8 from me because you are expected to fight with the analog stick, which 
 I found to be a little tough. You can use the buttons though, but it was made to use the analog 
 stick.
  
  Also, when you look at your stats matched up against another player, the numbers are really hard 
 to read LOL! I know this is a wierd thing to say, but sometimes it seems like my opponents stats 
 are all at 99 while mine are in the 60's or 70's. It just gets frustrating when you cant distinguish 
 a 6 from an 8 or a 9. 
  
  Anyways, buy this game, you'll love it. If you're still not sure, download the demo. :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jackazz17
Rating: 8.7
Date: Aug 11, 2006 10:23 am PT
Review:  Fight Night Round 3 is the latest in the boxing franchise, and certainly brings it up to the next 
 level on the XBox 360. The first thing you'll notice when you jump right into a fight is how it 
 looks. Simply put, it looks phenomenal. Characters look and move around the ring realistically, 
 punches' impacts snap your opponent's head back in a violently satisfying manner, and sweat beads 
 up and streams down the players' faces and bodies as the fight starts to heat up. What really stands 
 out is when you land that critical hit on your opponent and the game camera will slow down and 
 zoom in on the impact. The player models look amazing and you'll see their face ripple with the 
 impact right before they go down.
  
  With that being said, there are a FEW technical and visual quirks here and there that will make 
 you kind of scratch your head. For example, in between rounds you have the option to heal your 
 fighter's cuts and swollen eyes. The cuts particularly are nothing spectacular to look at, and 
 the blood doesn't really flow from these cuts, but rather just kind of appear in a trickle down 
 their face. The final knock-down punches on occasion will get off sync as well, and you'll see 
 your fist clipping through your opponents head sometimes, but this is a minor occurrence. And the 
 way that the players fall after being knocked down can be awkward as well, especially if they fall 
 into the ropes, as you'll the player kind of get hung up on the ropes and it doesn't look very 
 convincing at all. But as said earlier, these are pretty minor compared to the other glorious visuals 
 you'll be treated to, and you'll find yourself looking past these small quirks.
  
  The sound in this game is also one of the strong points. The hits will sound brutal when the punches 
 are brutal, and weak when the punches are weak. They sound spot on as well, you can hear your glove 
 hit flesh and hear the cracking of the nose after connecting. The music, mainly hip-hop, keeps 
 to the menus and doesn't distract you during the fight. The ambiance created by the crowd in the 
 background heightens and dulls in respondance to the fight, and sounds convincing.
  
  My one complaint with this game is the structure. The career mode, in particular, is without definition. 
 You start off by making your own character and really from there it's just fight after fight. You 
 never really know where you stand in accordance with everyone else, and the lack of a tournament 
 type structure kind of leaves it like there's more to be experienced. In between each fight you 
 have the option to train your boxer. This is done with a choice between three different mini games, 
 and they're okay for the first couple times, but get old pretty quickly, but the game almost forces 
 you to play them as you'll get barely an increase in stats if you have the game automatically do 
 it for you.
  
  The career mode is not without it's highlights, however. The core game, the boxing that is, is 
 great fun, and you'll have no problem playing through it again and again. The boxers you'll face 
 have distinctly different styles, ranging from speed to all out power to somewhere in between, 
 but you'll always be fighting a different fight. The game also works in a rival system and you'll 
 face this rival every now and then and he eventually becomes like an arch enemy. The game does 
 a good job of relaying to you that your rival hates your guts, as he will do things like pick fights 
 with you at the weigh-in and pull off an illegal hit during the fight should you give him the opportunity. 
 Once your boxer gets to a ripe old age of your choosing, you can opt to retire the boxer, and the 
 match-up between your boxer and your boxer's rival will be exported to FN's "Classics" mode, where 
 you can choose any of classic matchups, like Ali vs. Frazier, Hopkins vs. Jones Jr., etc.
  
  The fighting can be done two different ways. This game will WORK by button mashing, though 
 you're not really getting all you can if you use the buttons to throw your left and right hands. 
 The Total Punch Control system that uses the right analog stick is truly innovative and is really 
 what opens up each fight to be fun. The system reads how you move the control stick and punches 
 accordingly. For example, flick the control stick to the right, and your boxer will throw a quick 
 right jab. Likewise, rotate the control stick around in a big round fashion, and your boxer will 
 wind up and throw a massive haymaker. Go somewhere in between the two and it'll end up being like 
 a hard hook. The power / direction of each punch is totally in your control.
  
  In all, FN3 is a great collection to your XBox 360 library. It's addictive gameplay and gorgeous 
 visuals are definately worth the price tag. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sotnick955
Rating: 8.9
Date: Aug 10, 2006 10:31 pm PT
Review:  This was the first Fight Night that I played on Xbox 360 and the graphics were THE BEST THAT I 
 HAVE EVER SEEN IN MY LIFE (that includes on PC) !!
  
  Game play is a lot more realistic which took a little while to get used to (only 2 or 3 fights) , 
 but was a lot of fun. They also give you the option of play with the HUD on or off. I like to use 
 it in order to se how much life either myself or my opponent has left, otherwise you are supposed 
 to judge your condition on looks and fatigue. The game didn't make too many changes, but the graphics 
 make it a whole new, better boxing game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lawnboi
Rating: 8.6
Date: Aug 9, 2006 6:43 pm PT
Review:  Fight Night Round 3 is the latest installment for EA Games. 
  There are 4 basic modes to Fight Night Round 3, quick match, career mode, classic match and finally 
 online mode. Quick match you have you basic sport game match where you pick your boxer and arena 
 and go head to head against a CPU or a friend. Classic mode lets you re-act some classic matches 
 from boxing history. Then there is Career mode and Online mode.
  
  This game really shines in its career mode. When you start up your career mode you will instantly 
 be put into a spot where you can completly customize your boxer... when I mean completely I mean 
 COMPLETELY. This game is so customizable your head will be spending probably 30 minutes to 1 hour 
 making your boxer. Not only that you can buy new utilities for your boxer such as new gloves shorts 
 mouth guards and even taunts to piss off your opponent.
  The career mode is fairly long. At the start of your career you will be boxing in a thrashed building 
 with small crowds. You will move on after maybe 2-3 hours of play to bigger arenas with crowds 
 of 10 thousand. Before every match you will have 1 training session with a coach of your choice, 
 you can pick between 4 different ways to train, that each increase a specific part of your boxers 
 performance.
  
  The online mode for this game is somthing that you probobly will not be spending that much time 
 with. If you are a newcomer you will find the online for this game brutally hard, you will rareley 
 find a match that will not be one sided towards you. The good thing is that here is not much lag 
 online.
  
  Fight Night 3 is still a lot like the other Fight Night's with just a couple added moves and and 
 career mode stuff. I found the announcers in the fights were very well done but hard to understand 
 which fighter they are talking about. there is a stupid rag doll movements when the fighters are 
 knocked down, almost as if they were made of jel-o. You have the choice of using the analog stick 
 or the buttons to throw punches (analog stick is more precise)
  THE GOOD
  -The graphics in fight night are outstanding
  -Fun career mode
  -Tones of customizations
 
  -Lag free online play
  -Tones of boxers to choose from
  -controls are great.
  
  THE BAD
  -Hard to find out what fighter the anouncers are talking about
  -Stupid rag dolly 
 movements when fighters are knocked down
  -One sided online matches (if you are fairly new) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rojo213
Rating: 8.8
Date: Aug 9, 2006 5:54 pm PT
Review:  Let me just say, before I start to critique this game that I enjoyed this game very much and in 
 my review I plan to point out the flaws only because if I were to point out the high points of 
 the game it would take too long. The games main problems consist of; a bad soundtrack and ridiculous 
 amounts of product placement. To me that was it. The game is really that good. I enjoyed this game 
 so much that I actually wrote one of these stupid reviews for it. You people reading this need 
 lives and girlfriends. Go hump something you pasty faced losers.
  
  Thank you so much for your time,
  Sincerely
  Colonel H. Stinkmeaner 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ryanrodriguez
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 9, 2006 2:05 pm PT
Review:  I usually can't stand sports games like Madden, NCAA, and all the other franchises. I mean for 
 Christ's teeth they even have a ping pong game out now. I had heard nothing but good things about 
 FIght Night so I picked up copy. Needless to say I was very impressed. From creating your boxer 
 to the actual game controls , everything about this game is slick. The level of detail you can 
 go into is addictive. I seriously sat down with my wife for an hour or so until my boxer actually 
 looked like me. Of course the best part is the fighting. I don't know about you folks but after 
 a long days work there's nothing like going home and kicking the crap out of Holleyfield, Foreman, 
 or even Ali himself. Once you get the gameplay down (controls are different than any boxing game 
 I've played) you'll have a blast. The gameplay is smooth and the impact of the haymakers will make 
 anyone cringe. Definitely a renter if not an owner. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blckflcn7
Rating: 9.1
Date: Aug 9, 2006 9:23 am PT
Review:  This was my first boxing game I have ever played, and it was impressive.
  
  Gameplay - great. Everything runs smooth in this game. I have yet to find a glitch or actual cheat 
 that makes this game unfun. The controls are easy to use and you can get very...... personal with 
 them. By that I mean you can set it so that you are moving the analog stick to throw certain punches 
 or you can just use buttons. Everything is realistic about this game. You get swollen and cut and 
 can fix your guy up in between rounds. Also with a wide variety of fighters you can fight to your 
 style.
  
  Graphics - amazing. You can see details of everything in this game, and it all looks great. When 
 you train you can see yourself get more abs or less, depending on the training you do. You can 
 see sweat and blood pour down your guy as he is hit by a powerfull punch. The crowd even looks 
 real! One of the best graphics out there.
  
  Sound - good. Nothing special hear. Good solid sound. You can hear the announcer talk about your 
 fighters style, skill or past fights against the other fighter. You hear the guys exert breath 
 as they get hit and you hear a quiet yell when they are throwing a big punch. Like I said, soild.
 
  
  Value - great. You can replay this over and over. You can switch between a wide variety of famous 
 boxers (Muhammend Ali, Roy Jones JR, Sugar Ray Leonard, Sugar Ray Robinson, etc) and choose to 
 fight people from any weight division, making it either easy or hard depending on your weight divison. 
 There is also a Career mode that is quite fun, Xbox Live, Classic Fights, Hard Hits Fights (win 
 round by KO) , and simple sparring where it teaches you how to throw big punches. It is very fun 
 to fight your friend and trash talk each other.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: beenofalus
Rating: 9.4
Date: Aug 9, 2006 6:18 am PT
Review:  Fight Night has been a great boxing series, and Round 3 shows no sign of slowing down. The game 
 remains one of the most visually impressive 360 games to date. Everything from blood squirts out 
 of the cheek to sweat on the boxer's bodies to Roy Jones little chest hair patch, the amount of 
 detail is insane.
  
  The great things about Round 3 is the game really immerses you. The camera kind of jolts around 
 as you punch and land hits, to increase the effect you feel as you play the game. The addition 
 of the super haymakers (I forgot the actual name!) allows the game to be more realistic because 
 not every fight in reality goes until somebody gets knocked down 8 times, as in FNR2.
  
  Pros: 
  Astounding graphics
  Great soundtrack and effects
  Sponsorships are a fun addition 
 to get achievements and move up the rankings
  Knockout in one hit punches
  Lots of stuff to get for your fighter
  Fun game for 2 player
  Making a boxer is extremely fun
 
  
  Cons:
  Addition of new punch where you can go into a 1st person rage mode is really kind of worthless 
 and doesn't do any damage
  Sponsorships don't offer as much as they could (The BK King as your trainer? What?!)
  Over XBox 
 Live is for some reason, nearly impossible
  They should add more training method minigames
  Some boxers still not included (Floyd Mayweather, Klitscko, it's mostly just has been champs and 
 SOME current boxers)
  Disappearance of stuff to customize your entrance more is missed
  
  Fight Night keeps getting better, and I'm sure the next one will offer more to fans of boxing! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: daveld
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 8, 2006 1:47 pm PT
Review:  This is one of the best games to have come out so early for the 360! I lvoe what they've done by 
 removing the status bar and just show it in the character himself. nstead of showing you a bar 
 that says if you're fatigued or not your player sort of slumps over and starts reathing heavy. 
 The models are absolutly amazing from seeing the sweat, the blood, and facial animations it like 
 watching a real fight.
  
  This is also one of the best party games. It's only 1V1 but that's also the fun of it. You can 
 setup a tournament with your buddies and create a whole tournament tree. It's also an awesome drinking 
 game. :o)
  
  Easily one of the best early games on the 360! Pick it up if you like boxing or even if you don't. 
 Sometimes it's just fun to kick the crap out of your buddies virtually. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -Vappsen-
Rating: 4.2
Date: Aug 8, 2006 10:33 am PT
Review:  + Impressive Graphics.
  
  - HORRIBLE MUSIC!!! Eww...
  - Lasting appeal. You dont want to play it after you've got your gamerpoints, thrust me.
  
 
  Well, where should I begin. DONT BUY THIS GAME UNLESS YOU WANT TO GET THE GAMERPOINTS THIS GAME 
 HAS TO OFFER!
  If you want to see nice smooth graphics, you got it right here.
  If you want to have a game that you want to play more than 6 hours, dont buy this game!
  But 
 if you like boxing (and games) , I'm sure you'll find it fun, but I sure didn't.
  
  Check my other reviews too. They're all written by a pro.
  Over and out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: daw840
Rating: 9.8
Date: Aug 5, 2006 12:02 pm PT
Review:  I was addicted to both FN 1, FN2, and now FN 3. This game series jsut seems to improve every time 
 they come out with something new. The amount that I have spent with this game is incredible. The 
 graphics on the game are superb. I have always enjoyed the total punch control and now they have 
 added additional haymaker punches. The one thing that stil sucks, that sucks in all sports games, 
 is the commentator. But with that aside, I love it. 10 out of 10. I think that it you like boxing 
 games this is a definite must buy. Don't even bother renting it, just buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chunwosu2
Rating: 8.8
Date: Aug 4, 2006 6:05 pm PT
Review:  I just bought my fight night round 3 two weeks ago . fight night round 3 is the most realistic 
 game I have ever played; the first time I saw the gameplay, I was amazed, the player models looked 
 so real I though they were the real people; If you have a HD TV the graphics are phenomenal, they 
 look as real as a photograph. On a standard tv , the graphics look great, the only difference is 
 that on a hd tv, the graphics are just a bit more brighter and detailed, you dont really need a 
 hd tv for this game, but for other xbox 360 games. The sweat, the lighting effects, and the muscle 
 tones all look great and realistic. I loved the gameplay, the haymaker punches and hooks are very 
 fun to play with; when you hit a boxer, you will see the damage on their faces rippling through 
 their skin; the only bad thing about the game is that once you learn the controls and learn the 
 computer's behavior , the game becomes easy; after about four days, I was playing on the hard difficulty 
 and I forgot to mention this was the first time I had purchased a boxing videogame. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JMac76913
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 31, 2006 4:20 pm PT
Review:  One of the best looking, if not the best looking game out for the Xbox 360. To go along with the 
 sweet look of the game, it has great gameplay as well. The "swing sticks" work well and are easy 
 to get used to. They are also very precise and react beautifully to your touch. The game puts you 
 through a huge list of fights to become the champ. You get to put your boxer through training to 
 make them better as time goes by too. If you are a boxing fan, or just an avid gamer looking for 
 a good game to play I would reccomend this one for sure. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: djord02
Rating: 8.8
Date: Aug 2, 2006 5:59 am PT
Review:  Fight Night is exactly what I wanted from a next gen boxing game. The gameplay is great and the 
 graphics are amazing. When you land a good punch, every ripple and drop of blood in your opponents 
 face lets you know that it hurts. And honestly, the "fine science" has never felt so good, especially 
 from the safety of your own couch. 
  
  My only complaint is the utter lack of customization. Sure, you can buy different trunks and gloves, 
 but only a few different pairs. The training games could also be more varied. And yes, sometimes 
 the ugly side of capitalism manages to take over. Prepare to be bombarded with egregrious advertisement 
 from Burger King, etc.
  
  Those caveats aside, these problems probably won't affect your lasting impression of this game 
 one bit. So go buy this game and be a contender.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ihateyou_right
Rating: 6.9
Date: Jul 28, 2006 11:25 am PT
Review:  When I got this game I have to say that I was really excited. The main reason for my excitement 
 was the fact that what I had seen of the game was amazing. When I finally poped the disk in and 
 played my first fight it was everything that I expected the graphics are amazing. The graphics 
 are instatnly what hits you and how life like they look but it was then I realised that this was 
 all I had seen of the game and that was graphics. The graphics did astound me at first but soon 
 I began to see fault within them such as: fists going through faces, shorts and feet going through 
 the floor. However these can all be forgiven as the graphics on a whole are amazing. In my opinion 
 however the graphics are a big part of the game and are what sell the game, heck they sold it to 
 me. Once you see past the graphics and look at the game you see what an average game it is. The 
 gameplay is basically just button bashing, o. k you may use the anologe stick but even that leads 
 to 'stick wobbling'. The main problem is that winning fights is matter of stamina of how long you 
 can bash the buttons before your hand starts to hurt, thats not to say that at times FNR3 isn't 
 brilliant to play it's just that the majority of the time it isn't. The sound is also a bit of 
 a let down apart fron EA's EA trax the sound is not brilliant the grunts of the boxers is poor 
 it just suffers from what other games with a comentator suffer from and that is repatition. After 
 about four matches you begin to hear the same thing you heard four matches ago again and this soon 
 becomes tedious. The last problem I have with the game is it's very short career mode which all 
 in all will take around 4 hours to complete, after that there is ome other stuff to do but it won't 
 keep you going for long. The online is good and is where a lot of the good fights come from but 
 it does become boring as you are just doing the same thing again and again.
  
  Gameplay: Poor most of the time although it does have it's moments.
  
  Graphics: Fantastic 
 apart from the odd problem.
  
  Sound: O. k would be much better without the comentator.
  
  Value: short and not really long lasting.
  
  All in all I feel that FNR3 is more a technical 
 showcase of what the 360 can do, but if you like button mashing or just a good fight with a friend 
 over xbox live give it a go you may like it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarthChristian
Rating: 6.8
Date: Jul 26, 2006 8:55 pm PT
Review:  Don't get me wrong I've played this game alot, so I like it alot. So much that it's one the 360 
 games that I play the most, other than Oblivion that is. And this is one of the best games for 
 the 360, but I still find this game missing one or two major components that would othwise make 
 this game flawless. One of which is ofcourse a refferee. The lack of a ref' or an imaginary ref' 
 just sucks the authenticity out of it for me. And plus they have this system in place where if 
 you damage your opponents eye to much, instead of the a ref' coming in and stopping the fight. 
 It just stops. No explanation, no warning, no reasoning just done. Well they do have the anouncer 
 mention that the ref called the game, atleast they threw that in.
  On the other hand, the gameplay is great . If your a boxing fan then you'll love it right out of 
 the wrapper. Even if your a passive boxing fan you must own this game. For those who have followed 
 the series back since it was called Knockout Kings the controls are nothing new, you'll pick it 
 up and start out right were you left off. If you just picked it up to add to your 360 volume, It 
 deosn't take long at all to learn the control scheme. In part because there are a number of pre-set 
 ones to choose from, so you just pick the one you feel the most comfortable with. All in all it's 
 one of my fav' games this year one that everyone should own. Even though the product placement 
 is to aparent and slightly irritating, the announcers are to repeditive you'll be turning the volume 
 down after the first few hours, and the training games are way to linear for a boxing game. If 
 you have a 360 go and get this game NOW!!!! Because I may not be a EA fan, but those knockout replays 
 are worth every penny. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thebill1979
Rating: 7.4
Date: Jul 26, 2006 2:39 pm PT
Review:  I'm sort of disappointed in this game. I played and owned Fight Night Round 2 on PS2. That was 
 a great game. Round 3 took away alot of great features and added some half baked ones that don't 
 add to the game at all. They even took away some of the features in the boxer creation section, 
 which makes it harder to customize your boxer as you would like. Some of the new features just 
 don't work well. Such as the FMV sequence before you fight a rival for the third time. In which 
 your rival akwardly starts punching you during a weigh in. It's just sloppy and really out of place. 
 Total fight control is still in place, which is great. They added a few new things to that aspect, 
 but they really aren't that great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jigga9788
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 25, 2006 12:19 pm PT
Review:  7th round both boxers are fatigued u can tell by the sweat pouring down ur players cut and swollen 
 face he doesnt have much more time up on his legs, he's panting like a dog an his hands have dropped 
 ,but as the bell rings you connect with the perfect KO punch you feel relieved as you watch your 
 boxers fist connect with your opponents face he's down and you win, this is one of the most amazing 
 games ive ever played in my entire life the graphics even on a normal no HD tv are stunning the 
 motion capture is perfect everything perfect. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spartan3669
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jul 24, 2006 6:20 pm PT
Review:  This hard hitting boxing game delivers one heck of a punch that makes it a great game for boxing 
 fans. This game has great single player that helps drive the game because the online is boring. 
 the graphics are great and the sound of someone getting hit sounds realistic. The control scheme 
 is fluid and works great for it. The game also has past fights in histroy to either change histories 
 greatest fights or make sure that they stay the same. The game however loses its value after beating 
 it a couple of times. But the game does deliver a mega punch to a land a KO to everyother boxing 
 game out there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RadSnake
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jul 24, 2006 9:04 pm PT
Review:  This game was phenomenal when it came to physics and gameplay. I think using the two sticks was 
 a great way to make a fighting game a non-button masher which was one of the reasons I got this 
 game. I also thought the slow-motion cut scenes when you knocked someone down were cool, but after 
 seeing the same 5 or 6 over and over, they got really boring. The create a character was one of 
 the best on an Xbox 360 game yet. I came up with many different athletes and none of them looked 
 the same. What could have made this game better is if your boxer wouldn't age so fast. My careers 
 wouldn't last more than a week or two because my guy kept getting fatter and slower. Overall, I 
 thought it was a good game worth buying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bjmage16
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jul 26, 2006 12:08 pm PT
Review:  Fight Night Round 3 is a good game all around. Easily the best boxing sim ever created. The game 
 itself will test your patience, as you cannot flail around and hope you do damage. You must wait 
 for an opening, and take it, all the while protecting yourself. If you flail around, not only will 
 your opponent be able to counter you easily, you will quickly get tired and become ineffective.
 
  
  Aside from the solid gameplay are the amazing graphics. The character models are all very detailed, 
 and real world boxers look very good. You will never mistake Muhammad Ali for anyone else (if you 
 know what the real Ali looked like) . Animations are fluid and realistic looking, and the only issue 
 with graphics is a small amount of ghosting.
  
  While playing the game, it's hard not to notice the sweat and blood flying around with each punch, 
 and when you knock someone down, the game shows a slowed replay to let you watch that sweat and 
 blood fly off your opponent, and his jaw go in a direction that it wasn't designed for. The game's 
 visuals are awe-inspiring.
  
  Gameplay modes are very basic though, with your usual classic fights option, career, single bout 
 (which seems to be missing a few things from other versions) and multiplayer. Nothing real special 
 here.
  
  Overall, the game is very good. I do not like boxing games, yet this held my attention for a little 
 while, though I didn't love the game. I probably won't be getting this series again, but this game's 
 visuals help me to decide to get an Xbox 360, and if you like boxing this game is definitely a 
 must own title. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Danius
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 22, 2006 3:42 am PT
Review:  EA Sport's Fight Night Round 3 is definitely a great game and always a crowd pleaser when playing 
 with a group of people. XBL play is great and a good way to find yourself a challenging, good fight.
 
  
  As one of the first games released for the XBOX 360 it seems that the real intent of this game 
 was to show off the graphics of the console. The graphics are real sick and replayability is superb, 
 but once you get the hang of the game the AI becomes a pretty unchallenging opponent. 
  
  I feel EA would have done better, however, spending less time on the graphics and more time on 
 the gameplay itself. In terms of a fighting game, FNR3 has much more to offer than any other fighting 
 game thanks to the career mode. In terms of a sports game, however, its pretty shallow. Unfortunately 
 the career mode consists of a very repetitive fight, train, fight, train, fight pattern that gets 
 very old very quickly. 
  
  There is a nice collection of playable fighters that include some of the best fighters ever, but 
 there is a lack of currently active boxers and some great fighters of days past that seem to be 
 missing (Tyson, Trinadad, etc.) FNRS is also full of advertising and sponsors that can get very 
 irritating. If you win the Dodge sponsored fight in carreer mode you unlock a video that you can 
 access from your trophy case. And what is this video they award you with? A commercial for the 
 new dodge truck! Hurrah!
  
  All in all FNR3 is a very good game and will provide you and your friends with hours of entertainment. 
 If you are looking for a deep boxing game that hightlights the sweet science, look somewhere else. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spoogan
Rating: 9.7
Date: Aug 14, 2006 10:47 am PT
Review:  Fight Night Round 3 lets you pick up the gloves of either a legend known or your own boxer that 
 you have created so he can battle his way with blood, sweat, and determination from the minor leauges 
 to become the ultimate champion.
  
  Pretty basic boxing story, and it's right to the point. You can use the analog stick to aim and 
 co-ordinate your punches (for instance you actual make an uppercut motion on the analog and your 
 boxer actually does an uppercut) or you can set it up so that you have to press the buttons on 
 the X360's controller to punch. You can grab, give headbuts and punch peoples pieces (both illegal 
 moves) , block, or and lean to dodge attacks. 
  
  Throughout the game you earn money which can be used to either buy new gloves or other equipment 
 that will help your stats, or buy a more skilled and expensive trainer to give you higher stats 
 while working out. Thats another thing - in order to get faster or stronger you have to hit combo 
 dummies, punching bags, and lift weights. 
  
  You fight in various pay-per-views and other sponsored fights by big names like Under Armour, Burger 
 King, and Dodge to either win belts, unlock online achievements, become more popular, earn a shoot 
 load of money, or unlock new equipment.
  
  Lets talk boxers now. There are ALOT of big name boxers that you can battle or play us such as 
 Muhammed Ali, Evander Holyfield, Roy Jones Jr., Sugar Ray Leonard, Bernard Hopkins and many more. 
 There are also random, made up boxers for the 60+ fights you'll have to trudge through to be the 
 best. In FNR3, any one of these people could become your rival meaning they will hate you and challenge 
 you over and over and over again.
  
  During matches, just like real boxing, if you take damage you have to heal yourself. This includes 
 placing ice on a swollen ice or taking care of a cut. If you fail to do these, your boxer becomes 
 weaker and unable to throw decent punches.
  
  Graphics are excellent. You can see each particle of sweat dripping down & off your enemy, blood 
 pouring out of cuts, broken noses, hair swaying as punches are thrown, lights pounding down on 
 both the crowd and boxers.. its amazing and really makes it feel like the boxers are actually not 
 in a game but are really battling it out in front of you. The arenas are great - and though the 
 crowd attendants are sometimes recycled - they look realistic as well. Easily a 10.
  
  The soundtrack to this game can be annoying, but its still good. EA Sports did a great job liscensing 
 real life musciains like Akon & Sean Biggs to perform in FNR3. It really fits and it helps pump 
 up your & your fighter for his battle. The sound of a fist pounding into the face of your oppenent, 
 then his jaw cracking as you destroy him with a hook, the sound of his blood squirting out of his 
 mouth, his cry of pain & anguish, and finally the sound of his body slamming into the canvas is 
 GREAT and extremley rewarding (especially if your a heavyweight and fighting a welterweight) . I 
 love it.
  
  Three downfalls to this game is the fact that everything seems to tire your boxer out. For instance, 
 you'll throw a quick jab, your enemy will block, and your guy will just stand there staring stupidly 
 for a few seconds giving your enemy a chance for a counter hook. Secondly, when you reach the higher 
 30s in age, your character becomes old and useless - he literally loses stats after each fight 
 and becomes bald. They make it seem like he is thirty years older than he really is, and forces 
 you to retire him. Finally, if you care about your boxer's appearance then doing speed training 
 is a bad thing - I had a boxer who had a solid & tight 6 pack, I did one session of speed training 
 and he had a loose gut. I was forced to lift weights for three sessions to get it back. Its not 
 really that bad but kind of annoying.
  
  I'm not a big sports fan, but Fight Night Round 3 is filled with so much content and plain fun 
 that it's easily one of the most addicting games the X-Box 360 has to offer. Sure it can be repetitive, 
 but each fight is more rewarding then the last - especially when you drop a rival, earning $10,000 
 and taking his title - and just watching your created boxer rise to the top is just so satisfying 
 after all the hardwork you put into him. I highly suggest you buy this game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: cheche321
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 21, 2006 1:18 pm PT
Review:  I want to start off this review with telling you how i played this good game. Here it goes well 
 on the day i was dreaming about a 360 i went to wal-mart and the demoes contaned fight night pgr3 
 full auto cod2 and i picked fight night i played for a little and the game was fantastick the controls 
 were complacated tho when i blocked i came out with a real hard punch and i also love the way the 
 healing of your guy works with the swab thats fun. Oh ya and how theres no hood and makes it look 
 like were watching boxing on an hd tv. lets get to the graphics the graphics are very very very 
 good you see sweat dripping down there sholders and then you see a slow mo punch and you say woooo. 
 well that concludes my review. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ray94SS
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 19, 2006 7:28 pm PT
Review:  I knew I was going to enjoy this game when I spent about 6 hours playing the demo. The game did 
 not dissapont. This is my first boxing game since Punch Out on NES, so i was new to the Fight Night 
 series. The controls are incredible with 6 different settings. The Graphics are still the best 
 out there. Only downfall is that the story mode gets repetitive pretty quickly. However, I can 
 pick up and play this game for hours at a time regardless. If they added more to the story mode 
 in the next game we'd have a 10 on our hands. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PlaidRocker
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 18, 2006 2:19 pm PT
Review:  Wow, this game really hit me just as hard as the actual boxers in the game are getting hit. First 
 of all I'll start with things that I didn't necessarily like. When your creating a boxer, you can't 
 spin him around to see him from all angles. I tried to change things to make my guy look better, 
 but everything I did, it either looked worse, or didn't seem to change at all. I also don't like 
 that you create a guy in "Create a Champ", but you have to remake your boxer for the actually storyline 
 game. I also don't like that the game didn't have custom soundtracks. In wrestiling games, you 
 can create your wrestler's entrance into the ring. It made me sad that you could do the same with 
 your boxer. Too bad I couldn't choose the music he enters with along with a robe that he could 
 be wearing when he enters the ring. There are some other things I didn't like, but there your garden 
 variety crap that doesn't really matter. We've heard all those before. Overall the game was absolutley 
 amazing. The graphics were pretty much the best graphics I've seen of any game to date. The controls 
 were difficult to learn for me at first, but once I got the hang of it, I realized that the controls 
 are the best that they could probably be. The cut scenes of a boxer being hit in the face in slow 
 motion for a KO are violent and graphic, and you absolutley wouldn't want to change that because 
 that makes the game all the more better. I really enjoyed the detail the game went into from picking 
 your trainer, to training, to picking your apperal, to picking your moves, to fixing your boxer 
 up at the end of each round, to getting yourself out of a daze after being knocked out. I seriously 
 suggest playing this game, because I could be talking for a while. If you play the game, you'll 
 come to find that it is self-explainitory. To sum it all up, the game is a revolutionary in sports 
 games. Its absolutley amazing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: colegallop
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 18, 2006 8:54 am PT
Review:  This game is truly the best boxing iv'e ever seen in my life. This game keeps the innovation alive 
 in the series. The blood, sweat, and tears in this are realistic! The total punch control is 
 truly amazing, and gives you nearly limitless control over your fighter. Truly life-like visuals 
 are the standard in Fight Night Round 3. The best parts in the sound department are the punches. 
 Theyre truly sickening the first time you hear a knockout punch. There are a bunch of unlockables, 
 but only a handful of achievements. One of the only big problems is in the Create-a-Boxer mode 
 which allows you to max out your fighters stats, which means that most players wont even fight 
 you online if you choose a CAB. Theyre just too strong. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Supa_natural888
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 13, 2006 7:48 pm PT
Review:  This is a very good boxing game and it would make a great addition to any gamers collection. The 
 gameplay is very well done. There are several button configureations already programed into the 
 game so you can pick the best one for your boxing style. The graphics are amazings the boxers look 
 much like there real life counter parts. The boxers take noticeable damage, their eyes swell cuts 
 grow as they get hit and they can even be healed in between rounds. When a knockout occours the 
 gameplay slows down and you can see the ripple in the glove when a punch connects. The sound is 
 decent. The sounds of the fight are great but the commentare of this game just isn't. In one fight 
 you will probably hear the samething repeated two or three times. All in all it is a very well 
 put toghter game worth playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: madden118
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jul 8, 2006 12:34 am PT
Review:  Fight Night Round 3 for the Xbox 360 is the best boxing game ever made. The gameplay is very fun 
 and very addictive and the controls are great. The story mode is fun for a while . But sound in 
 this game is sick. Every time you land a big punch you can feel the impact. The thing that stands 
 out most about this game is its amazing graphics. The graphics in this game are sick. The level 
 of detail in this game is amazing. When a boxer is hurt you can actually see the pain in his face. 
 Everything in this game just looks that good.
  
  
  
  Overall this game is a must have for 360 owners.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jacash3492
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 7, 2006 9:29 am PT
Review:  This was by far the best boxing game I have ever played. Incredible graphics, sound, and gameplay. 
 the story mode is great and keeps you playing for a decent amount of time. Also, online play is 
 a great way to see if your skills are major. I serously thought the only thing wrong with this 
 game is that the story mode could have been more addicting and extended for the gamers. More stuff 
 should have been put in the game. You should have had where you get hit so hard you get knocked 
 out of the ring and then fight out there. Or outside the ring fights. Or even you get cash and 
 increase your crib and cars and stuff. That would have been nice. Remember, if you want to take 
 your skills online, make sure you beat the story mode cuz the gamers online are very, very hard. 
 Hire the Burger King as your manager. I recommend this game to any 360 owner or any owner of an 
 Xbox or PS2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ahmedali
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jul 7, 2006 8:36 am PT
Review:  FNR3 is a great game with amazing graphics and great gamplay. Gameplay in this game is really innovative 
 the haymaker button is amazing u can use it to make great counters. AI is also suprisingly fantastic. 
 The graphics r the best ive seen on the 360. The sound is outrageous. Career mode ... well it gets 
 prett boring after awhile. U go therough the same procedure sign contract train fight sign contreact 
 train fight over and over again. But the achivements will keep u busy though out the story mode. 
 Graphics make this game stick out the blood effects are great the physics are awesome thecuts and 
 bruises and sweat are great. Look if u want a game that will last u awhile get FNR3. The gameplay 
 is the best part of the game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: heisman67
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 7, 2006 2:35 am PT
Review:  Damn this game has wicked sick graphics!!! The blood, sweat, and tears in this are damn good!!! 
 The hits are very realistic.... this coming from a guy that boxes semi-pro for the last 3 years.... 
 The hits I lay on the players in this game throw flash backs of the fights I had!!!! You wont be 
 disappointed.... This game keeps the innovation alive in the series... If you have ever played 
 other titles in this series you know what you are getting yourself into!!!!! If you havent you 
 need to play this game boxing lover or not you will become one once you play this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: usmc123456
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jul 6, 2006 5:13 pm PT
Review:  
  
  This game is a fabulous game the graphics are superb and never get s old the gameplay is awesome, 
 it's fun exiting, althogh I miss how in FN Round 2 how you could customize your match add effects 
 to the match and music and all that. The online is also very good I just happen to suck at the 
 online portion of the game, but lucky for me I can set the difficulty setting in Single Player 
 to a difficulty that suits me, there's even more boxer you can choose from too from Oscar De La 
 Hoya to Feathermerchants that I've never heard of. This game is a 1,2,3,4,5,6,7,8,9 Knockout 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Foehammer111
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 6, 2006 11:37 am PT
Review:  I admit that fighting games are one of my least favorite genres. As such, I didnt have much interest 
 in the Fight Night series until I got a 360. Then I noticed how amazing this game looked, and I 
 knew I had to try it. 
  
  Turns out that Fight Night is better and more tactical than any other fighting game I have played. 
 This is a real fighting game, and all the Tekkens and Virtua Fighters are just wannabes.
  
  GAMEPLAY
  What can I say? Because of this game, Im actually interested in boxing now. The 
 total punch control is truly amazing, and gives you nearly limitless control over your fighter. 
 Your boxer is literally as good as you are at controlling him. Its so easy to put together combos, 
 parry punches, and move about the ring that it feels like second nature. Theres a ton of different 
 fighting styles to choose from, which makes it even easier to find something that works for you.
 
  
  Because of the controls, button smashing it non-existent. Sure you can throw punches at random, 
 but your boxer will get so tired from this that you wont be able to continue, and can even cost 
 you a match. There are several different modes including a career, and ESPN Classic fights. My 
 only complaint is that the menu system is sluggish, and you can only have one career going at a 
 time without retiring a boxer. A better reply system would have been nice.
  
  GRAPHICS
  Truly life-like visuals are the standard in FN3. Everything looks so realistic: the crowd, the 
 sexy ring girls, right down to the fighters themselves. Every punch looks like it hurts. Punches 
 ripple through a boxers face, and they collapse with sickening body twitches. Very high-resolution 
 textures, and nice lighting effects. Its also very nice to see that theres no GUI, and you rely 
 on visual queues to see how your fighter is doing.
  
  SOUND
  The best parts in the sound department are the punches. Theyre truly sickening the first time 
 you hear a knockout punch. The announcer sounds great, but he does end up getting repetitive. I 
 love how the crowd reacts to what you do in the ring, and will actually start chanting a boxers 
 name when youre doing well. The music fits well, but there are only a limited number of tracks, 
 so you tend to hear the same ones over and over again.
  
  VALUE.
  The career mode isnt as well developed as it could have been. You basically have to win a certain 
 number of matches before you can get a title shot. But no one ever challenges you for a title. 
 The rival tracking system is almost non-existent, and you wont see much of a difference in AI when 
 fighting a rival. It would have been nice to fight a rival, and have him be more aggressive during 
 the fight. Other than the career mode, there isnt a lot to do offline.
  
  There are a bunch of unlockables, but only a handful of achievements. But FN3 makes up for this 
 by giving you lots of points when you do achieve something. The online boxing is where the lasting 
 fun is. However, the Create-a-Boxer mode allows you to max out your fighters stats, which means 
 that most players wont even fight you online if you choose a CAB. Theyre just too strong. 
  
  Fight Night Round 3 is an excellent boxing game, and shows that with a good fighting system, 
 all the balance problems of other fighting games are non-existent. Stunning visuals, great sound, 
 and awesome controls make Fight Night an easy game to recommend. I just wish there was more single 
 player lasting value. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kelljon
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 5, 2006 10:27 am PT
Review:  Fight Night getts better and better as the years go by. Round 3 improves over the last one......... 
 except for the ranking system. Just fighting with whoever comes along...... with no way of knowing 
 how close you are to the title...... can be aggrevating.... but it still does not spoil the wonder 
 that is Fight Night Round 3! The graphics are stupendous....... from the blood spurtting out of 
 mouths to the facial and body changes signifying fatigue....... it's all that! The fight stick 
 is great....... even though you might have a hard time getting that stun punch out (but it's really 
 not needed to win fights) . Throwing hooks, jabs, uppercuts, and straights is easy, and moving around 
 the ring is a breeze. You can "float like a butterfly, sting like a bee", which can aggrevate you 
 friends. One-two, one-two-three, even 5 punch combos flow (with practice) . The blows and punches 
 sound really well, and that bone-crunching, KO punch to the head is just so sweet....... And I like 
 the simplicity they created for the facial repair mini-game between rounds. The classic fights 
 are a nice touch, and the inclusion of your retired character with his rival makes it even better. 
 Overall, this game is a must by for any 360 or sports fan........ it can even sway the nonsportsman. 
 The few gripes I have are that the computer can get cheap at higher difficulty levels (parrying 
 many of your punches...... choose punches carefully!) , and not being able to wear any clothes you 
 want without lowering the effect they have. Apart from that.... viva la Fight Night Round 3!!!
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jesseandnikki
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jun 28, 2006 10:13 pm PT
Review:  Fight Night Round 3 is a good overall game with fun online and a really good single player experience.
 
  
  This game is probably one of the best games to showcase the 360 capabilities graphics wise. This 
 game is stunningly realistic from the textures to the imperfection in the boxers' skin and the 
 sweat beads and blood that roll down their faces when they're in a tough fight. The crowd, however 
 seems to have lots of jaggies... but I have only noticed this in multiplayer. The fact that cuts 
 on the faces happen in real time is also a major plus for this game.
  
  The sound is awesome, especially with surround sound. The crowd seem to come from all around while 
 only the sound of you beating your oppenents face in will only come from the left speakers (or 
 vice versa depending on your corner in multiplayer) . The announcers in the game get really annoying 
 really fast since EA didn't really put a lot of effort into what they say, making it really repetetive.
 
  
  The gameplay is really good. The Career Mode in which you make your own boxer and fight your way 
 to Champion is really fun, especially if you do it without cheating. Playing as Ali and De La Hoya 
 are also fun, but nothing like playing as your own character and upgrading him throughout his carreer. 
 Online is definately fun, especially if you have a friend who is willing to go up against you.
 
  
  Ths game is a must buy for 360 owners and is easily one of the best 360 games to date. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Micia87
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 26, 2006 7:13 am PT
Review:  When I first heard about Fight Night Round 3 on Xbox 360, I thought 
  "Another boring boxing game based just on graphics"...
  Well, I was really, really wrong, why?
 
  The most fantastic feature of this game is that each boxer has is own skill
  and his own weaknesses, this means that each encounter is different from
  others; you are against 
 a fast opponent with a slow tank-like boxer, maybe it 
  is not the best thing of yours throwing punches away, because you're going
  to exhaust your energy; 
 yes, your boxer will not be an almighty warrior, like in other games, capable of fighting for hours 
 with no fatigue, this adds pretty much to the game, you have to think while fighting, creating 
 your own strategy to defeat your opponent, not to press mindlessly buttons.
  Speaking of buttons, in this game we have the chance of not using them,
  we, in fact, may use 
 just the right analog stick, trough it, moving it in the correct way, we can define the type of 
 punch we want to deliver to the unfortunate "enemy boxer", as well as some heavy punch, which can 
 stun or put our opponent into serious difficulty, but it costs a lot of energy to execute them.
 
  To complete these marvellous features there are some illegal shots, really funny, like elbow, 
 head, or knee hits; but it could cost you the entire fight
  (if they discover you, anyway :) ) .
  There are different types of combat styles to deal with, 
 they will ensure variety in the game, and many real boxers, like, pretty predictable, Muhammad 
 Ali, Jake Lamotta and Hagler.
  The comments on the fight are appropriated, almost flawless, and so is the enemy A. I., it is able 
 to grant good single player fights; there are also the usual multiplayer options, online and not, 
 together with a great career mode: here you will be able to create your own boxer and to make him 
 become a phenomenon, with your skill, determining his fighting style, his defensive style, his 
 appearance and even training him (it is good to say that your boxer will also grow older and older, 
 basically your career will end when you will decide to retire him...) .
  Well does this game have any bad things?
  None in my opinion, really, if you love box, you will 
 love this game, if you don't, you should consider this game equally.
  If you're searching for alternatives to Fight Night round 3, try to take a look to Dead or Alive 
 4 or Rumble Roses XX (if you really want to...) , but, at the moment, there are not many alternatives.
 
  
  Hoping to have been of some help... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SkyeCupid
Rating: 7.2
Date: Jun 25, 2006 4:20 pm PT
Review:  At first glance Fight Night Round 3 makes for an amazing experience and one of the best games in 
 years. However, after spending more than a few hours it begins to run thin. It will begin to get 
 boring and you will start to feel a little case of deja vu.
  
  The graphics are what makes the game shine. The character models are very sharp and character animations 
 are too. However, the background is filled with low resolution characters that don't make for a 
 great crowd.
  
  The sound is nice with some real bone crunching noises when you make contact. The announcer is 
 nice too which will occasionally drop in some facts about whose fighting and basically does what 
 a real announcer does. The soundtrack is annoying though with the same hip hop songs repeated time 
 and time again.
  
  The gameplay is nice with a good control scheme by using the right analog stick for total punch 
 control. It would have been nice if you could have done all of the commands of that with the buttons, 
 but you couldn't. The game is more balanced than previous versions but it also moves a bit slower 
 too. The career mode is kind of disappointing with no real incentive to continue playing through 
 it despite the gamer points.
  
  The game won't have too much lasting appeal but is fun with friends. It will tend to get boring 
 after a while, but is still welcomed into your collection of games. Rent it if you are money conscious 
 or if you aren't sure if it is right for you. FNR3 is a good boxing game that could have been great 
 if it just had a little more to it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kamikazeBEATALL
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jun 25, 2006 3:35 pm PT
Review:  From the minute you see you're first knockdown whether it is you that did the knocking down or 
 you being knocked down, you'll know this game is for you or not. The first time through the single 
 player it is a lot of fun but the fights began to seem repetitive but playing for belts and money 
 make you mix things up a little bit. Don't even try to play the single player through a second 
 time, it is basically the same thing as the first time except you can try different strategies, 
 but that is nothing you can't do in multi-player. The multi-player is so fun with friends, probably 
 the best multi-player i have seen in a while. The moments when you're opponent is dazed and about 
 to fall down make everyone in the room on edge, and is always exciting. The controls take some 
 getting used to if you've never played before but it won't take too long. The graphics and sounds 
 are really incredible. This is a very fun game, but you SHOULD rent it before buying it (just to 
 see if you like it) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alexxallen
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jun 22, 2006 10:41 pm PT
Review:  Fight Night round 3 brings a lot to the table. The graphics are incredible, bringing so much realisim 
 to your tv screen, and addictive gameplay that you just have to love. The online play in fantastic 
 as well, for when the game is just no longer a challenge. The only thing I wish they would have 
 done is thrown in some Rocky Marciano. The coolest thing about the game is the punching and blocking 
 configuration. Though it is just like round 2, it just gets better and better. The is a good game 
 for pretty much anyone, and anyone with a 360 should definantley invest in this game!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: fable_fodder
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 22, 2006 2:57 pm PT
Review:  This game was pretty fun when I rented it, but I don't suggest you buy it. It is fun for maybe 
 10 hours if you're lucky but other than that, it gets old pretty fast. Its the same thing over 
 and over again clicking one or two buttons to box. The only cool part about the game that never 
 gets old is picking this fat guy to fight with and fighting muhammad ali with him. It's so fun 
 watching this guy get beat up because his stomach is constantly jiggling like jello, and when he 
 falls there is a ripple effect across his tummy. It is hilarious. Other than that and maybe the 
 fact that the realism and the graphics are extremely good, this game is not worth the buy. In fact, 
 I'm not sure it's even worth the rent. Get something else like G. R. A. W (Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter) 
 or Oblivion instead, you will be more pleased with those choices instead of this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mecheye
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jun 22, 2006 1:31 pm PT
Review:  This game was definetly the most exciting to first play, as the graphics were over the top, and 
 the gameplay was fast and smooth, and required more than button mashing. There is nothing more 
 satisfying then landing a Haymaker in your friends fighting character, except maybe a knockout. 
 While it delivers all this greatness, the game seems to be very short, in that once you learn, 
 you will have to really fight hard guys to keep yourself entertained, but it will quickly feel 
 like the same thing over and over. It is a great game though, one that will always be fun when 
 you had a rough day and need to come home and beat the crap out of something. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pinkyfoo
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jun 22, 2006 10:46 am PT
Review:  If you have a 360 and you don't want to play this game, it's probably because you don't like boxing. 
 I don't really like boxing either, but I had a lot of fun playing this game. You don't have to 
 enjoy the sport, you just have to enjoy beating a guys face until it looks like pudding! The way 
 you throw punches is really cool. You use the right thumbstick to throw punches. This is cool, 
 but sometimes it's really hard to be accurate. Other than that the controls are pretty much perfect. 
 It even offers a few illegal hits like the elbow or the low blow. When the announcers are talking 
 you don't really have any idea who their talking about. They're big fans of the pronoun "he". The 
 graphics really push the 360 to its limits. When hit someone you can see the ripples in their face. 
 So, if you have a 360 check this game out.
  
  P. S. It'll give you an easy way to boost your gamerscore
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: antonius05
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 20, 2006 11:14 am PT
Review:  The graphics in this game is unbelieveable. When i got this game, it just blew me away, its that 
 good. Its a very good stimulator game starting from rookie to a pro. But it can be hard fighting 
 someone faster or stronger than you. If you want to be a pro at this game u got to know what you 
 are doing, if not, you are going to lose alot.
  
  Lets talk about the online multiplayer. I really didn't like the online mulitplayer too much because 
 it takes a long time to find out who won the game and so forth. Maybe some of you people will enjoy 
 it, i don't and thats just me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marc5477
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 20, 2006 8:48 am PT
Review:  FIGHT NIGHT ROUND 3
  
  GAME REVIEW SECTIONS
  
  - Overall 6.9/10 - (24/35)
  - Gameplay 15/20
  - Story 0/0
  - Graphics 4/5
  - Sound 4/5
  - Effort/Innovation 1/5
  
 - Replay Value None for single player
  High for multiplayer
  - Monetary Value $25
  
  ------------------------------------------------------------------
  GAMEPLAY : 15/20
  ------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  Combat: 8/10
  
  The computer AI is very easy to defeat and not much of a challenge once you get a hang of the game 
 but player vs. player is where this game shines. You cannot just run around the ring like a mad 
 dog and mash buttons, rather you will need to learn how to block, dodge, and parry punches to counterattack. 
 You have to pick your moments and try to anticipate your opponents attacks if it is another player. 
 The AI simply doesn't throw enough punches and fails to block and parry when you randomize your 
 punches so it is not much of a challenge at any level.
  
  The Bad: The game heavily favors power type characters such as Hollyfield. In many test runs with 
 a friend that is about the same skill as myself, we have found that speed boxers simply stand no 
 chance against power boxer in this game. Trying to fight Ali vs. Hollyfield results in a lopsided 
 slaughter despite the fact that that Ali will throw and land twice as many punches. The problem 
 is power boxer can simply burrow to close range and take all the punches without feeling much of 
 their effects. Once in close they can just exchange a couple of punches with the opponent and given 
 the disparity in power they will win the exchange every time. Playing as a fast boxer you have 
 very few option against a burrowing power boxer. You can try to anticipate and parry but the problem 
 here is that there is a 75% chance that you will guess wrong and given that the opponent is strong, 
 even a few punches landing could spell defeat for you. If you try to dodge you will not be able 
 to move back and away. If you try to back away you leave yourself open for at least one body shot. 
 In other words, it is impossible to get away from another boxer despite the differences in speed. 
 If Hollyfield wants to hit you, he will no matter what you do unless you get lucky and parry everything 
 he throws. I had one bout where I completely demolished Hollyfields face with over 1000 jabs 90% 
 to the left eye and I still couldnt get him down, nor get the fight stopped, nor even with a round 
 even though I landed nearly 2100 shots to his 900 and neither of us went down the entire fight. 
 Balance is definitely a problem in this game.
  
  Character Options: 7/10
  
  You can create your own boxer in this game however, like most sport games there is no balance or 
 limits to creation. You can simply make the most powerful boxer in the world in 1 minute and use 
 him to wipe the floor with everyone right off the bat. This takes away any sense of progression 
 for your created boxer leaving them with a hollow and almost pointless feeling. Why even make a 
 boxer if they can be superman without any effort? Nonetheless, making a boxer can be fun with all 
 the options you are given to customize them with. You can change a lot from nose size, head length 
 and eye position, to boxer stance, punching style, and blocking method.
  
  ------------------------------------------------------------------
  STORY : 0/0
  ------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  No story of character progression in this game unless you play as one of the pre-defined boxers. 
 No penalty for this since it is a sport game but I do want to point out that some boxing games 
 do indeed have a nice progression system so I don't want to completely ignore this feature.
  
  ------------------------------------------------------------------
  GRAPHICS : 4/5 
  ------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  Excellent. You can feel the pain of every blow landing in this game. Injuries look good and fatigue 
 is displayed well. The backgrounds could use some work and the EA blurring effect remains one of 
 my least favorite effects in any game but otherwise the boxers themselves are very detailed and 
 look good. You cannot compare a game like this to an RPG, however which maintains high quality 
 despite its complexity and size but for a boxing game it is good. Minus 1 point for its simplicity 
 and so-so backgrounds.
  
  ------------------------------------------------------------------
  SOUND : 4/5
  ------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  Lots of rap and hip-hop music (can we really call it music if no one knows how to play any instruments?) , 
 none of which was very good but that is only because I am a little too old for both. The quality 
 of the music score was good however and there are a lot of tracks in this game. Not bad but will 
 not please non-rap or hip hop fans but to be objective I have to give it a decent score. Minus 
 1 point for lack of variation for all fans.
  
  ------------------------------------------------------------------
  EFFORT & INNOVATION 1/5
 
  ------------------------------------------------------------------
  
  A rehash of older Fight Night games with improved graphics and a new soundtrack. Aside from that, 
 nothing was really improved and the same imbalance issues that plagued older games remains in this 
 one. Also, given the simplicity and small scale of the game, it cannot compare to other adventure 
 or RPG games on the market. Good game but not for its innovation.
  
  ------------------------------------------------------------------
  OVERALL : 6.9/10
  ------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  (1/5 + 4/5+ 4/5 + 7/10 + 8/10 = 24/35x10 = 6.9/10)
  
  Not a bad game at all & fun to play with other friends of about equal skill level. The game can 
 use some improvement to balance and could use some more flare in its custom characters and character 
 progression. The game feels very cold and dry in single player mode almost like watching a documentary 
 on TV. Music definitely needs some variation and perhaps even a few musicians rather than artists.
 
  
  ------------------------------------------------------------------
  REPLAY VALUE
  ------------------------------------------------------------------
  
  None for single player
 
  High for multi-player
  
  ------------------------------------------------------------------
  MONETARY VALUE
  ------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  A solid $25 given its simplicity and scale. Also note that it is just a re-incarnation of older 
 Fight Night games with almost no improvement whatsoever aside from graphics. EA games should be 
 sold more like expansion packs than as new games given how little changes from one year to the 
 next and how little effort is put into their creation. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hendrix_986
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jun 19, 2006 10:11 pm PT
Review:  Best in the series, Best boxing game out there. 
  
  GAMEPLAY: Fun, Fast, and ever changing. If you miss a couple punches, your guy will get tired and 
 slow punch..... but that works to your advantage, just get the opponate tired... and beat the @@@@ 
 outta em!
  
  GRAPHICS: When I wanted to show off to my cheap friends how good the graphics were on the 360, 
 I used Fight Night 3 as a taste. 
  
  SOUND: Even though I hate the soundtrack, It flows.... along with the announcments and crowd.... its 
 good.
  
  VALUE: I usually keep the best of a genre in my collection..... until the next..... I'm defenatly 
 keeping it.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: VooDoo1144
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jun 19, 2006 9:12 pm PT
Review:  I love the fight night series... I bought the 360 with the intention of owning the new one and to 
 bask in the glory that I was seeing what they showed in the vids and screenshots.
  
  What I got was somewhat different... it seemed that the graphics were both really good and really 
 poor... on one hand we have some great mo cap work and really nice lighting... on the other hand 
 we have some really underdone girls and some really buggy damage.
  
  the gameplay is tight as a vice and seems to get better everytime... though this game is a bit slower 
 than we saw in the last installment... the fighters seem to move more slowly and somewhat more realisticly 
 than the other game. The fight store is still way to expensive to make any sense at all... why would 
 one spend $350,000 or more for a pair of shorts?... if we could choose a cutman than we would not 
 have to jack up gear prices and make things harder to buy. the lack of different cutmen seems like 
 a good idea... but the prefight screen looks empty without the choices... though AT LEAST we now 
 have the burger king trainer... for some stupid reason.
  
  The sound is great... the hard meat sound of punches is great and satisfying... but again the music 
 sucks... yeah... EA trax has killed another one with it's insipid noise and hip hop pandering.... I 
 want my own bloody music!!!
  
  the graphics are great... faces look good and such... the lack of a HUD really draws you in and makes 
 you get a feel for the fight... while it does seem like you lose stamina way to quick for no reason.
 
  
  The Ads are a hot button issue and I agree... they are now over the line... why would I want to see 
 the burger king man in my game... I don't even really like burger king... I can understand everlast 
 and such... but burger king?
  
  Live support is cool and I have dabbled a bit in it... seems like it can get laggy to the point 
 of being slow motion... I have had both good and bad in the live area.
  
  Overall it is a good game... you just have to look past some of the cosmetic and gameplay faults 
 that don't really equal a deal breaker... but it is pretty close.
  
  see you all driving to burger king in your new Dodge calibers... stupid Ads
  
  Mike 
::::::

::::::
UserName: antp
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jun 19, 2006 8:06 am PT
Review:  This game is for the hardcore boxing fans.... This game is also worth the 60 dollars being charged 
 for a game.... The only problems are the lack of legend boxers and the lack of no in-ring referee. 
 But overall this game is perfect example of a good boxing title. This one to own. Online, this 
 game is just as fun. So enjoy your new Fight Night round 3..... So you gotta go and but this one 
 if you love boxing. You will be satisfied. I gaurantee that you'll never stop playing this game. 
 Only if they can finally put in all the boxers we loved from the past and the present. Like Mike 
 Tyson, Antonio Tarver, George Foreman, Lennox Lewis, Joe Louis, Rocky Marciano.... And many more.... But 
 that's okay you can try to create them. But that's just as tough... But it's worth trying.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zmaleh
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 17, 2006 10:57 pm PT
Review:  i have been looking for a boxing game to play for a while so i decided to buy this one, when setting 
 up i decided to the hitman ricky hatton and started from amatuer level upwards, the training regimes 
 are good and the more prizemoney you win the more you can soend on an excellent trainer/mentor. 
 if you can try to avoid playing it on easy as it is very easy to play try on medium or hard. the 
 fight...
  
  The Graphics might be the best on the 360 so far, the sound is good. I love Slow-Mo puches. The 
 only thing is that eventually in the Campaign the Game gets repetitive, and it feels like you are 
 doing a chore, just to get the achievements. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: koopatroopa75
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jun 14, 2006 9:22 pm PT
Review:  This was the first game I played on the 360 and I was blown away. I first played multiplayer with 
 my bro and he had played it once before at a freinds house. He taught me all the controls in about 
 5 min. and we were already having an intense boxing match. 
  The first thing you will notice is how good it looks. The background looks fantastic with detailed 
 stadiums and fan models and some nice lighting. And when someone is hit with a K. O. punch the slow-mo 
 replay is absolutley amazing. His cheeks ripple realisticly, and his head turns with the movement 
 of the punch. Blood and spit will fly out of his mouth and beads of sweat fly off him.
  But as we all know it is not all about looks. The gamplay is very simple but still challenging 
 enough to keep it interesting. You use the right stick for punches and only the A button for your 
 powerful haymaker. You use the triggers to duck and block.
  Also like to mention that the character creation is detailed enough to be fun.
  All in all very 
 impressive looking and fun game to play especially with a freind and I don't even like boxing. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SemiMaster
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jun 16, 2006 11:32 am PT
Review:  Fight Night Round 3 has a flair of the dramatic and theatrical that only the spectacle of boxing 
 can bring to the TV. This game is a prime example of the 360's graphical capabilities. Time to 
 lace up your boxing gloves and get ready to master the Sweet Science.
  
  Gameplay: This game is quite interesting in how it plays. It has "Total Punch Control" which basically 
 uses the right thumbstick as the boxer's fists. With slight forward motions being jabs, quarter 
 turns hooks and full half circles as uppercuts. To add more to it are haymakers which start at 
 either 3 or 9 on the controller, sweeping back to the 6 o clock position followed back up to the 
 11 to 1 position. Where you end up changes the punch from stunning the guy going into a block mode, 
 going into the dazed mode before you get knocked out, or just a simple knockout punch.
  
  Then there are the leans and dodges followed by the blocking in 3 styles, regular, cross and Philly 
 Shell. Blocking is hit or miss sometimes, as you can block all you want but nothing happens, but 
 you throw a tiny jab you are left stunned for a full 4 seconds, which in a boxing match could easily 
 land you on your butt in the real world. That really cools down the steam you might be building 
 in a fight. 
  
  There are also the duck buttons which also allows for body blows, a signature punch which is quite 
 powerful and sometimes fast, a taunt, and a cheap shot and a low blow.
  
  Also, you can switch the controls in the options, which I find to be a bit cheap and defeats the 
 purpose of the total punch control mastery. 
  
  You can go through a regular fight, or you can recreate a real boxer, or make your own. You can 
 upgrade by buying near boxing gear, also there are mini games for building stats between matches. 
 I suggest getting good at those if you want to maximize your boxer's stats. Auto training gives 
 you half of those stats rounded up. I do have to say that the combo dummy training game is very 
 frustrating while using the Total Punch Control system. 
  
  The biggest problem is some of the computer controlled players are so incredibly cheap that it 
 drives you insane. They constantly block and dodge, yet one jab damages you like a Mack truck running 
 your boxer over. 
  
  Graphics: What can I say besides photorealistic graphics, or at least as close as they come. The 
 boxers look like their real life models, and the created boxers look as real as well, so much that 
 my friend made a character that looked exactly like himself. I love the slowdown feature when you 
 get knocked down, it shows the rippling of the flesh and deformation of the nose or other features 
 plus the flying blood and sweat. Classic.
  
  Sound: The sound in this game is great. The announcers are great for one reason, there are a LOT 
 of sound clips, so it takes a while to hear them repeated. Sometimes though the audio is stupid, 
 and not on a production basis, but a programming basis. Sometimes your manager will say "what were 
 you doin out there kid?" then he says "great job kid you really owned the ring that last round". 
 It just doesn't fit well, either you did well or not.
  Also, the soundtrack of this game is epic, Featuring A-Kon, Dialated Peoples, Atmosphere, Dipset 
 and more. The soundtrack is exactly what you would expect of a boxing match, with all the bravado 
 and swagger of the greatest. The first time I saw Ali strut into the ring to Never Gonna Get It 
 by A-Kon, with the speakers blaring and the hollow sound of the boxing arena, I knew the soundtrack 
 was perfect. 
  
  Value: This game is great, whether going through the career mode to become the greatest of all 
 time, to just duking it out with someone much less powerful to relieve the tension, to a serious 
 rivalry with your drunken roommates, this game has it all. Assuming you have friends to play with, 
 or at least X-Box live. If you are a hermit, drop the value down one rating.
  
  Tilt: Aside from the cheap computer controllers sometimes, the Xbox Live isn't too special either. 
 Personally I don't like the modified controls people use, it defeats the original games intent, 
 but that's my opinion. Otherwise, this is an excellent game to play against the computer or with 
 friends. Nothing settles rivalries like a virtual Rock-em Sock-em Robot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wildamnesia
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jun 12, 2006 7:49 am PT
Review:  Simply not as good as Fight Night Round 2 on Xbox. Sure, it looks fantastic and plays just as good 
 as the other games but there's a whole heap of stuff missing and the replays look awful (who wants 
 to see a slow-mo clipping?)
  
  There's just too many annoying things about this game: 
  
  1. There are only 6 areans which is a little odd especially when you become the heavy weight 
 champion and have to defend your title in a back street boxing gym!
  
  2. The ring girls don't look as good as they did in teh Xbox verison for some reason.
  
  3. 
 SPONSORSHIP!! It's everywhere.
  
  4. Did I mention the replays look crap. Since when have a few wild swings into thin air and a couple 
 of playful taps on the head been highlight material.
  
  5. The boxer's eyes don't move, so they all look like manaquins. How hard is it to animate eyes?
 
  
  I rented this game and finished it in 2 days, easily unlocking all the achievements. I suggest 
 you do the same. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: StuartWest71
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 10, 2006 3:17 am PT
Review:  I have enjoyed playing many boxing games over the years including "Barry McGuigans Boxing" on the 
 Commodore 64, "4D Sports Boxing" on the Commodore Amiga, and "Ready 2 Rumble" on the Dreamcast. 
 The game play is always simplistic, but there is a great deal of enjoyment to be had from beating 
 seven shades out of your opponent, especially after a rough day.
  
  This is the first of the Fight Night series that I have played, and found myself hooked from the 
 moment I tried the demo, which I subsequently completed more than a dozen times. I then purchased 
 the full title upon its release.
  
  The game offers the most strategic game of boxing I have ever played, due to the ability to duck 
 and dive, combined with a variety of punch types. The different opponents clearly have there own 
 style and technique, it never feels as though you are boxing against the same opponent time and 
 again.
  
  With regard the controls I found it difficult punching using just the right analogue stick, however 
 I could easily jump between this and the buttons depending upon my strategy.
  
  The decision to remove all HUD type displays concerned me at first, but you really don't need them, 
 as the player models provide a realistic gauge of each fighters condition. I later found that you 
 could activate a HUD if required, but I have chosen not too.
  
  My main criticism with the game surrounds the mini-games. Frantically moving the analogue stick 
 between rounds to reduce swelling\cuts was just annoying, as was the procedure for recovering from 
 a knockdown. Fortunately I found that I could switch these off via the games options.
  
  I have not yet played on-line, however I continue to play single player, even after unlocking all 
 of the achievements. 
  
  Overall this is simply a great title. Highly recommended if this type of game interests you.
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: maddogg44
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 9, 2006 10:54 am PT
Review:  All around the best boxing game made to date. Create your own legend by starting out as an amateur 
 on career mode and working your way up the ladder. I suggest training before playing. Game play 
 is excellent and the graphics are brilliant. As for sound, the commentator is a bit annoying especially 
 when your losing, but the fighting sound effects are fantastic. Online play is also excellent, 
 although EA Sports has a few bugs to workout.
  If your a big boxing fanatic, this game is definitely for you. Fight in different wieght divisions, 
 use the King as your manager, but you have to unlock him first. I would like to have a few more 
 legends added, but you can create them yourself to relive your favorite boxer as if he were still 
 fighting today. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smithers101
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jun 8, 2006 5:16 pm PT
Review:  I have just bought a xbox 360 and Fight Night 3 was the first game that I got for it. I was looking 
 for a fun game that shows off the power of this next gen console, and it didn't disappoint.
  I have never played a Fight Night game before so I can't compare it to the previous games in the 
 series and it's been years since I even played a boxing game.
  Well, first the graphics! they are amazing, considering this is EA's first Fight Night game of 
 the next gen. If this is sign of things to come, the future looks good. I don't have a hi-def TV 
 but they were still incredible.
  Gameplay I found to be very nice in the end. At first the gameplay can seem a little slow, especially 
 compared to real-life boxing, but this soon not even noticed once you learn all the punches and 
 defence moves etc..
  The audio was solid, don't expect anything mindblowing in this department. The soundtrack to the 
 game is great, although they could with a couple more tunes on there, and there was no option to 
 choose your own entrance music to ring (unless I missed it) which I think would have been a nice 
 touch. The commentary is standard last gen stuff, you don't have to play the game long to hear 
 the same stuff over and over.
  I only rented this game and played it a lot for 2 days straight, mostly in career mode. There seems 
 to be quite a lot of content in there to keep you busy for a while, lots of fights to earn some 
 money so you can spend it in the store where you can buy all boxing accessories and other things 
 like tattoos for your boxer.
  Bottom line is that this game is visually stunning and great fun to play. One of the best 360 games 
 out at the moment. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wsh_12
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 7, 2006 6:54 pm PT
Review:  I was never a real big Fight Night fan until I picked up Fight Night Round 3 for the Xbox 360. 
 This game is fantastic!! By far the best one in the series so far. The graphics and gameplay are 
 great! It's also great that when you are fighting and you KO someone you are able to put it in 
 slow motion and you can see all the blood and sweat come off the person after you give a vicious 
 blow to the head. If you are a boxing fan or just love playing boxing games, then I highly recommend 
 going out and picking a copy of this game up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 11YaoMing11
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jun 7, 2006 2:28 pm PT
Review:  I just rented Fight Night Round Three and got pretty addicted to it. First of all as soon as u 
 enter the game, the movie starts. As I watched the movie, I was amazed by the graphics. They looked 
 amazing and it look just like a real boxing fight. 
  
  The best part about this game is the gameplay. The controls are so smooth and you feel like you 
 are actually the boxer. This game is not just a button mashing game it allows you to use the analog 
 stick to personalize your punches. The only problem i had with this is my thumb got really sore 
 from playing it too much! The blocking and leaning button are the trigger buttons which work perfectly. 
 The y button is used to lock up your opponent. The A and r1 button is for power punches. B is for 
 a dirty punch. The controls in this game are magnificent and should be used in the future boxing 
 games.
  
  As far as the fight, you basically have to knock the sense out of your opponent to win. When a 
 person is about to get knocked out, the game slows down and all you have to do is hit ur opponent 
 one more time and then he is down on the floor. To recover from a knockout you have to manuever 
 the two analog sticks toward a middle circle. It is easier at first but after getting knocked down 
 a couple times it gets almost impossible.
  The intros of this game are also awesome. The music rocks and is perfect for a boxing game. I watched 
 my intro almost every time because i loved the music. The best part of this game is the round girls. 
 They are beautiful and make u work harder and harder just to make it to the next round. After a 
 round, you sit with your trainer and heal your wounds. I always chose auto heal because it is hard 
 to do and i had no idea how to do it. This is crucial because if you dont heal your wound, the 
 ref could call the fight if your cut gets bad enough. 
  
  The sound in the game is also amazing. When you whack you opponent with a haymaker you know it. 
 You can even feel how much impact you had on him and how it felt. You will hear your gloves smack 
 him in the face and him stumble backwards. The announcers in this game are average. They get you 
 excited by their commentary and they tell who is winning the fight.
  
  I played the career mode. This mode is the main part of this game. It basically lets you create 
 a boxer and put him through a rough boxing career. The create a boxer in this game is phenominal. 
 There are many options to make and u can personalize your boxer. I had alot of fun with this feature 
 and made the perfect boxer for myself. The attribute has a set amount of points and you can get 
 more by training your boxer or by buying equipment or moves in the fight store. 
  The training games are alright. They are fun at first, but when you have to keep doing them over 
 and over again. They get downright boring. The amount of attributes you get is determined by how 
 well you perform in teh exercise and your type of trainer. You can choose from one free trainer, 
 a strength trainer, a speed training, and ever the king himself of burger king who makes a guest 
 apperance. Like I said the training modes are neat but get repititive and you just get sick of 
 doing them.
  The fight store is a neat addition. You can buy all boxing equipment such as gloves, shoes, moves, 
 dirty moves. 
  
  I thought the storyline was alright. It could have been alot better with more videos. It does have 
 a preview of the fight and headlines in the menu of the career mode. I played the career mode and 
 i just thought it got really repetitive. I had to force myself to keep playing sometimes. It just 
 needs some storyline to keep me playing. I love playing the game but i dont want to fight the computer 
 like 50 times without a storyline. It just gets broing. After i beat it, i didnt have much satisfication 
 because the ending wasnt good. The career mode is mediocre.
  
  I didnt get a chance to play online so i cant tell u about that but i heard it is good. I didnt 
 play wiht my uncle and we had a blast fighting each other. He didnt beat me in like 20 tries but 
 we had a great time. Its just a great game to play with your friends. The number of boxers is also 
 awesome. There is alot of boxers to chose from legends to boxers of this age. If you want a challange 
 you can play someone 2 or 3 weightclasses below your class.
  
  Overall, I thought Fight Night Round Three for Xbox 360 was a great game. The graphics and gameplay 
 are groundbreaking for a boxing game. The sound is also a great part of the game. The only downfall 
 is that it may become boring after a while and the carrer mode isnt that great. I loved this game 
 though. I would recomend this to any 360 owner. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: garurumon017
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 6, 2006 4:30 pm PT
Review:  the graphics on this game are just incredible. the gameplay is very fun. you throw punches with 
 the right analog stick and its just very easy. you can also clinch and hold down the L2 button 
 and move the left analog stick and dodge. that is soo fun. the multiplayer is fun and addicting. 
 there should be more boxers to choose from however, but the ones who are in there look as they 
 would in real life. the price tag is still kinda high though. online play is smooth exciting. career 
 mode with let u create ur own boxer and become champion. its just a great game if u like to box. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: proudcubeowner7
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 5, 2006 8:55 pm PT
Review:  First of all, this game is just plain fun. If you are haveing a bad day, it is fun just to go out 
 and kick someone's ass. There are alot of modes for the single-player game. There is the career 
 mode, which you will be playing for sure. There is the regular play now, where you can beat the 
 computer up with no problem. Then there is the hard hits mode, where the round can only end by 
 a knockdown. Then there are the training modes. So that's all good, but the only problem is that 
 if you are just fighting the computer it will get repetitive kind quickly. Then that is where xbox 
 live comes in, which is the best part of the game. If they took all the single-player stuff out, 
 and there was just online play, it would be worth the money. It is fun the just meet a stranger 
 who always says the F word and beat them up. The graphics are amazing. The boxers models are so 
 detailed. There are also no life meters (although you can choose to put it in, I don't recommend 
 that) , which makes it more realistic. You can only tell if you or your opponent is about to fall 
 by looking at the doubt and concern on the boxer's face. Everyone is here. From Ali to Pacquiao, 
 almost all the famous boxers are here. But I would like to see more classic fighters. This is really 
 pushing the xbox 360 to the limit. You are also still using the Total Punch Control thing where 
 you control your punches with the stick. You can choose to change it to the buttons, but the Total 
 Punch Control is where it's all at. So this is one of the best if not the best boxing game ever. 
 It has alot of modes in single-player and both multiplayer. The only problem is that the single-player 
 can get a little repetitive and some boxers you might dissapointed not to see. But if you're a 
 boxing fan, pick up your $60 and go to the store right now. This is a great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Baer73
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 4, 2006 7:32 pm PT
Review:  NF3 is a pretty dang good game, the thing that makes it what it is now... The graphics! I just love 
 creating my own anything and using it to reak havoc or get it to a higher level, or in this case 
 a higher rank. I love seeing that win-lose-draw record go up. My record is 47-0-0, good! I had 
 a couple of fighters, my Marron Mariko boxer would of had more wins but wanted to try out all the 
 weight classes. I guess i'll just describe my Marron Mariko boxer alittle sence I don't have atleast 
 100 words yet... Marron Mariko was 6'8" 262lb. or more, don't remember, REally strong buff black 
 guy with brown rasta dread hair. Marron Mariko "detail" Could knock out people in the first round 
 with the very first punch!!! Awesome overall game!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _raymaster
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 4, 2006 8:52 am PT
Review:  Well what to say theres so much, well first I will start off to say this is the best in the series, 
 This game is really next-gen in my opinion, I will start off with the basics this game looks amazing 
 on the Xbox360 I mean i dont think the graphics could be better for example u will see the pain 
 in ur opponents eyes/face when u land that punch u will know it! The graphics has some awesome sweat 
 effects to, like u can see urself sweating through out the fight. The A. I. is pretty cool to, u 
 will have to block or u will be beatin to a bloody pulp LOL. Now lets start with the main career 
 mode But I have to say that its not really what I hoped for its really not in depth, in a sense 
 that its really bad to be honest, I mean u will still be able to create ur boxer or just use a excisting 
 star, and u will be able to buy crap for ur boxer, and make a boxing style but I dont know it just 
 doesn't feel right but u'll be able to get past it because theres so many other great aspects to 
 this awesome game! All in all this game is my top 4 for my 360 anybdy who has a 360 and does not 
 have this game is a fool! Do urself a favor and pick up this game NOW! SIMPLY PUT! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Luigi6745
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 4, 2006 7:04 am PT
Review:  I love it! I have fun beating the crap out of someone every once in awhile. The multi player is 
 great, but the thing I hate about it is how you get up. You have to put them in the middle. It 
 is very hard to do. There are many flaws to this game but I still say that you should buy this 
 game even though you aren't a boxing fan. I'm not really a boxing fan, but I still love it. Buy 
 it now or you will be missing out on a great boxing game! It may cost $59.99 but it is worth the 
 money to play on the Xbox 360. I don't think you should buy it for any system except this one. 
 It is the best sport game I have ever played! :D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: l33t_gamer_88
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 3, 2006 8:24 am PT
Review:  fight night round three is more than just another boxing game... it lets you get in depth in what 
 you do with the "total punch control" feature and it really lets you enjoy the whole thing. it 
 is overall just a great game with a nice fairly detailed but easy to handle "create a boxer" mode 
 and the story line really follows your rise to fame well with its multiple stages. you will find 
 yourself fighting certain people over and over again throughout the story as you develope rivalries 
 with people and this i find is a really neat feature, nothing out of the ordinary however. One 
 thing that could have been improved however is the soundtrack.. your boxers always have the same 
 entrance music and you cant change what plays when your boxer somes in unless you have music on 
 your 360 in wich case you can just have whatever you want playing all the time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bulldog7
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jun 3, 2006 12:35 pm PT
Review:  This is a difficult game to review. It has some great elements to it; but some unexcusable flaws, 
 which just pisses me off.
  
  The graphics are excellent, no doubt there. The sound is OK, but quite annoying. The commentators 
 are pretty good actually; it's the same as all sports games, it gets repetative, but not as bad 
 here.
  
  The gameplay is a mixed bag. Overall it's very well done, the fighting I mean. It's a mix between 
 arcade and sim. Don't expect Punch OUT!! But it's not completely boring or anything; it's quite 
 strategic, but probably a little slow paced for some people. The career mode is pretty bare bones. 
 Nothing special, just a series of fights and some lame sponsored events that are shameful advertising. 
 Hey don't get me wrong. I'd gladly pay $10 less if it means having advertising in the game. But 
 the game isn't cheaper, and litterally every second of the game has some brand being pushed in 
 your face. What more should you expect from EA?
  
  The most annoying thing about the gameplay, and it's extremely annoying, is the odd "catch-up" 
 that EA, AGAIN, put in this game. I've never played other Fight Nights, but it's pretty ridiculous 
 to be just pummelling an opponent, then after getting like 3 shots, you're on the mat, cut, swollen, 
 and pretty much TKO'd. What wrong with this picture? It's not fun, that's what. Hey, if I'm fighting 
 Mike Tyson, or Ali and their stats tell me they are 5 times stronger and tougher then i can accept 
 that. The problem is, many of these opponents are weaker than me, yet take literally 20 times as 
 much damage as me and still kick my ass. Ya, it's extremely annoying, so be prepared for that. 
 You won't notice it at the beginning of the game; it shows up late in the game (at least, that's 
 when i noticed it)
  
  Aside from the really unfair damage modelling, the game is actually pretty good. It's probably 
 a blast as a multiplayer game as long as both players are experienced fighters.
  Worth buying? That's a tough one. I think it probably can be, it's hard to tell. My concern, other 
 than stuff mentioned above, is that I don't see there being much value in the game. All the fights 
 pretty much seem like you're playing against the same player. They might as well have just had 
 one player model for the entire game (that'd be boring of course) . I suggest renting this game 
 first. I can't say either way whether it's worth buying or not. The big concerns for me is the 
 value factor and the cheapass "catch up".
  
  Overall it's a good game. I was actually quite impressed, especially since I don't like EA games. 
 This stands out as one of their better sports games.
  
  I've made the tilt 6 because I feel the game is a 7/10, not 7.3, which is what it would be if the 
 tilt were at 7. It's a solid 7 though. Without the cheapassness of the game and the barebones career 
 mode, I'd probably give it 8-8.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spot2009
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 2, 2006 11:05 pm PT
Review:  You might be wondering, '?! Why did you buy this game if you don't like boxing?' or something similar 
 to that. Well, the answer is, I just was watching the pics and videos on GameSpot and I thought 
 it looked awesome. Just got it today, and I have been playing only that game since. It's addictive 
 and fun.
  
  The gameplay is tight. Except the thing I don't like is the blocking.. I don't know, I just can't 
 get the hang of it. It's probably just me. But it's still pretty fun.
  
  The graphics are, in my opinion, better than GR: AW. But in character detail; it's absolutely fantastic. 
 It's highly detailed and it looks totally sweet on HD. Some of the things I'm not really fond of 
 are the animations when you land a haymaker on your opponent for the KO. The animation in slowmo 
 looks pretty strange.. Another animation I'm not too fond of is parrying/leaning. It looks strange, 
 but I can see how hard it would be to make it looks realistic.
  
  Basically, my last words on this game- I'm hooked. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 7HR1LL3R
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jun 1, 2006 8:39 pm PT
Review:  From my first fights on Mike Tysons Punch-Out, to Knockout Kings, I never thought a boxing video 
 game would bring back the fun of knocking my opponents head silly. Fight Night Round 3 is an excellent 
 addition to some of the already great boxing games before it's time. Although I cannot say I got 
 into Round 1 and 2, Round 3 does wonders for gameplay.
  There are many things this game does well, whether it's impressive graphics, character creation, 
 or Online play. On the other hand, there are things like commercial advertising (who cares; I like 
 having The King as a trainer) , lack of variety in NPC's (audience) , and repetitive EA tracks.
 
  
  The one main thing I didn't like most about FNR3 was the fact that I couldn't knock the mouthpiece 
 out of my opponent!
  
  Anyway, back to the review.
  I was very impressed with this game on the graphics side. This game is one of the 360's best looking 
 second-wave titles, taking advantage of the processing power the 360 has. From the beads of sweat, 
 to the ruffles in the elastic on the boxers shorts, FNR3 has some of the best graphics the 360 
 has to offer to date.
  
  Throughout playing, I realized that I could change my fighters' punching, blocking, and uppercut 
 style, which offers up unique characteristics of a fighter that you won't get out of any other 
 boxing titles. It's also possible to construct a character to resemble your real-life self! (I 
 had more fun creating the ugliest character imaginable, then watching them destroy all these real-world 
 counterparts. ex: Roy Jones Jr) .
  
  As for online play: Tough competition!
  Although the game is fairly simple to walk through, I guarantee you this: You'll get your behind 
 handed to you if you don't know what you're doing! The competition is fierce, and there are no-holds-barred 
 on LIVE. This offers up a new gaming experience for people who walk through games like water.
 
  
  Another small thing I was disappointed in in this game was the Achievement Points. C'mon EA, give 
 us a challenge!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dillyhox
Rating: 9
Date: May 30, 2006 7:52 pm PT
Review:  Fight Night is a great game! The game is truly beautiful and one of the best looking on the 360. 
 The game is very easy to get into and the controls on it are very customizable so you can set it 
 to your liking. I really enjoy how they took out the stamina bars and you have to judge it by how 
 your opponent is looking and fighting. When training or fighting make sure you dont do auto for 
 anything. Auto is terrible and it is better just to do the training or to do the fixing of the 
 fighter yourself. You will definitely get better results. On this game it is better looking on 
 an HDTV so if you dont have one dont worryit still looks great! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gwilo007
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 30, 2006 3:22 pm PT
Review:  Fight Night r3 improves on the mechanics of the 2 previous games, but what makes this game a true 
 Must play is the excellent next-gen experience.
  First lets get a few complaints out of the way: 1. not enough current stars to really make the 
 Rivalry fights more diverse, a few big names are noticeable absent from the rosters, names like 
 Jose Luis Castillo, Floyd Mayweather jr., Antonio Tarver, the Klitschko brothers, Fernando Vargas. 
 2. Limited amount of fighting venues. Although the arenas we get are well done it would have been 
 nice to see big name Vegas casinos. 3. Not being able to integrate authentic music to fighters 
 entrances. it becomes annoying to see/hear guys like Oscar dela Hoya, Marco A. Barrera to walk 
 out to tunes by obie trice, or Akon... (no offense to the artists) ... Hopefully in the next FN 
 we'll be able to integrate our music into the fighters entrances...
  Now for the good part: even with its few flaws Fight Night r3 is an awesome game. The fighters 
 look almost photo realistically while in motion. the animation is great, everything looks butter 
 smooth. The fluid animation is key because you'll rely on you fighters on screen condition rather 
 than metes this time. The HUD-lessness works great to draw you even more into the game. you are 
 drawn into the game even more by the fact that you are never done until you are done. A single 
 well placed punch can change the outcome of any match at any given time. The AI is serviceable 
 but the this game shines in multiplayer mode. This is a great party game, when a lot of people 
 gather around and egg on the 2 players fighting it out is usually fun (especially if drinking has 
 taken place!!!) .
  the bottom line is that this is a great game that shines on multiplayer, if you have a 360 do yourself 
 a favor and check this game out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: latin_boi
Rating: 8.8
Date: May 30, 2006 1:35 pm PT
Review:  Fight Night first made its debut on the Xbox and Playstation 2 back in 2004. No doubt... this was 
 the greatest boxing title I've ever put my hands on. Last year, EA released Fight Night Round 2, 
 and this year, released FNR3 to usher in the next generation of gaming on the Xbox 360 and the 
 Playstation 3 later on this year. While Round 2 and Round 3 aren't as fun and exciting as the original, 
 they still deliver all around awesome gameplay and stunning visuals.
  
  The sort of main attaction of Fight Night has always been the use of the analog sticks in the Total 
 Punch Control mechanic of the game. While it may seem hard and intimidating at first, Total Punch 
 Control can actually be fun, challenging and realstic at the same time. For those of you (like 
 me for a while) who seem intimidated and put off by the analog controls, there are a variety of 
 configurations that you can select to make the game easier for you. Eventually though, you'll find 
 that your choice of configuration makes the game easy and you'll start to get bored. Total Punch 
 Control is the only sure way to ensure a fun but challenging fight awaits you everytime you play 
 Fight Night Round 3, and is the only way you can perform the new Impact Punches. Impact Punches 
 are the new addition to Fight Night gameplay. The entire premise that it's built on is that "one 
 punch can change the entire course of the fight." The three punches available to you are the Haymaker, 
 the Flash-KO Punch, and the Stun Punch. The Haymaker is your average signature punch that does 
 more than average damage. The Flash-KO punch (if executed properly) will automatically send your 
 opponent into danger of being knocked out no matter how early into the fight. The Stun Punch makes 
 your opponent groggy and sends the camera into a first person perspective from your opponent and 
 allows you to completely wail on him until you knock him down. Once again, these punches (except 
 the Haymaker) can only be performed through the Total Punch Control. They may be difficult to master, 
 but once you get it down, you can become an absolute beast in the ring. The only real problem is 
 that people can overuse the punches and knock people down rather easily. Fight Night Round 3 also 
 includes a Career mode and ESPN Classic mode to fight in. The Career mode is rather basic: you 
 start off as a nameless nobody and work your way up to the top to become champion of eventually 
 multiple belts. You can create your character from scratch or choose a pro and take them through 
 the Career mode- whatever suits your preferrence. You schedule fights, train, and fight, to then 
 become the greatest of all time. After all that's done, you retire and that's it. Throughout your 
 career you'll have many rivalries (but some of them get really repetitive and almost seems as if 
 you only fight your rivals) , and your most intense rivalry will make it into the ESPN Classic mode. 
 ESPN Classic mode (for you squares that don't know what ESPN Classic is) allows you to fight matches 
 of rivalries from years past. Ali vs. Frazier, Duran vs. Gatti, and EA's own Big E. vs. Goliath 
 are just some of the many fights you can either rewrite or even change history with. Finally, FNR3 
 includes an online versus mode. Like many other sports games, this may lose its luster over a few 
 matches, but it still is very fun. And plus, there's almost no lag while you play. Overall, Fight 
 Night Round 3 has a fun and addictive gameplay that may seem intimidating, but once you figure 
 out, is fantastic.
  
  There's nothing much to be said about the graphics at first because your jaw will be on the ground 
 for a long time. These graphics are truely beautiful and amazing in every sense. Character models 
 are fantastic, and the variety in which you can create a boxer is endless. Effects such as spit, 
 blood and sweat are just amazing and will always stand out in this game no matter how detailed 
 everything else is. Clothing, environments and the crowd even all also look amazing. One of my 
 favorite features of the game, the Cutman minigame, allows you to just sit and look at all the 
 damage done, and marvel in the amazing presentation of it. I've seen all sorts of nasty cuts, swelling 
 and even a broken nose in between rounds, and all I can say is "WOW." My absolute favorite thing 
 about this game though, is the replays. Slow mo replays of a knockdown show everything closeup- 
 blood being spat out, sweat falling down, and ripples in the face from the impact of the punch. 
 It almost motivates one to knock down an opponent more or be knocked down more just so you can 
 see the detail and beauty that is the slow-mo replay. The only drawback to the graphics is that 
 there is a ton of clipping. Clothing will clip through people's bodies, and even fists clip through 
 people's bodies. It all looks very detailed, but when a fist goes through someone's skull... it 
 sort of takes away from that. Overall though, Fight Night Round 3 is an all around great combination 
 of stellar graphics and fantastic effects. 
  
  The sound of Fight Night Round 3 is also fantastic. Music, in general is very good, but there is 
 a very small selection of tracks. The commentary is good, featuring the voice of Joe Tessatore 
 on the side. But the one thing about the sound that really stands out to me is the sound effects-primarily 
 during a slow motion replay. The sounds you may here will be haunting and cause you to cringe in 
 pain. You'll hear bones cracking, flesh tearing and all other sorts of nasty things all while everything 
 else is completely silent. If you have a nice surround sound system, I highly suggest turning the 
 bass up a good bit because this and a few hard punches will just blow your mind as to how good 
 it sounds. 
  
  Fight Night Round 3 probably won't keep many people busy. After the decent length of a career and 
 a few matches of online and ESPN Classic, the game sort of starts to lose its luster. While it's 
 perfectly fine for me to start another career and go to the top again, the game deletes your old 
 boxer, so it probably won't be so good to do that if you want to keep your boxer when you're done. 
 Overall though, FNR3 is just an overall fantastic presentation of the world of boxing through amazing 
 visuals, complex and fun game mechanics, and stellar and haunting sound effects. Fight Night has 
 always been one of my personal favorite sport franchises, and Round 3 continues to impress me over 
 and over. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Esquives
Rating: 8.1
Date: May 30, 2006 12:34 pm PT
Review:  I like boxing, and with the announcement of this release I was thrilled. I know that EA have a 
 huge budget to make games. They are behind all the great sports games like NFL, NHL, NBA and FIFA. 
 But... And it's a huge but. I think Ea throws more money into their christmas parties. This game 
 is average I would say. The errors are to big to make me forget my disappointment. The biggest 
 mistake is in replays - No wonder the other guy went out, my arm is going through his HEAD!!! And 
 why, oh why does the announcer keep saying "let's take a look of some of the headlights from last 
 round (which I of course won ;-) ) and then show me getting my behind spanked?!?!? And as of the 
 vocabulary of the announcer, well, I think I have all of the sentences memorized by now! All 5!! 
 
  Then there's the story part, or lack of story part. It is kinda lame. You do get some rivals and 
 it is fun to kick their a** but that's just about it. 
  It wouldn't have dissappointed me this much if it wasn't EA behind. If it was just some little 
 new firm trying to make a name I would be thrilled with this. I expect more from EA.
  But... (here's the second but) I like this game. No matter how much critizism I have towards things 
 that should be better. I think it works pretty well even though. I bought it for the multiplayer 
 reason and my friends and I love to box each other. And the fact that there's no "health-bar" is 
 sweet. You can only by judging from the behaviour of your boxer see in which state he is. And by 
 some time you get to learn that the angle of the camera is very telling as well. 
  Oh, and one more thing. The hay-makers are hard to master but a sick weapon. By throwing these 
 special punches you can alter a round and maybe get a knockout. Really really sweet. 
  
  Would I recommend this? hmm... yes.... But only to people who can live with the errors described. 
 
  
  If you can do that, then get ready to rumble! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: s0ulja777
Rating: 8.3
Date: May 30, 2006 10:31 am PT
Review:  Fight Night crashes into the 360 with a devastating right hook! Many of you may have been disappointed 
 with the line-up for the 360. Well this title stands out.
  
  For me it was the first game to feel next generation, the graphics here are simply superb. Every 
 bead of sweat, drop of blood and cry of pain is so realistic it makes you feel your fighters pain!
 
  
  The game features a decent enough single player. The career mode gives you the choice of creating 
 a fighter of your own or remaking a legend, the best obviously being your own fighter. Whilst you 
 will start fairly slow and play like a school kid fighting, eventually (with the extra training 
 games) you will be ducking and weaving like a pro.
  
  Its hard to describe just how satisfying it feels to parry your opponents hook, leaving him wide 
 open and smashing him back in the face!
  
  Whilst this is all fun, the Live content was disappointing. Simply because there is no real lobby 
 or structure, you just get thrown into seemingly random fights and slug it out, though it can be 
 really intense and rewarding.
  
  All in all a great game that no-one should miss out on, anyways im off to beat Ali!
  
  Regards, 
 Soul 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hydrolite
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 29, 2006 7:13 pm PT
Review:  The Fight Night series is probably regarded as one of the best sports series around. This franchise 
 could be expanded even farther with the introduction of the series to next gen systems. I have 
 to say it is probably the best round the series has had in its career.
  The first thing you will notice when you step into the ring is the great gameplay that the series 
 is known for is back and even better. The eddition of the two new punches that can instantly alter 
 the fight give it that ' one punch can change the fight ' mantallity that boxing has to this game. 
 Also the effects of cuts and swelling are amplified to give a bit of strategy to the game.
  The graphics are simply incredible. Player models look like they have been taken straight out of 
 a movie and put into the game. The only problem is that there are clipping problems whenever a 
 fighter goes down. This makes it look like they have partially gone through the ring. The same 
 thing happens when a boxer is hit by a punch. This is easily forgivable by having one look at the 
 player models.
  The games career mode is a great as ever. Now you are able to chose your fighters style which allows 
 you to fight the fight you want. This adds a lot of replayability seeing how one time you can go 
 in a power fighter and your next career a speed fighter. The career mode is deep and engaging with 
 rivals and various events and training regiments. 
  Fight Night Round 3 was flat out snubbed by gamespot. It is simply one of the best games for the 
 Xbox 360. It shouldn't be missed by fight fans or 360 owners. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fares_bytes
Rating: 8.6
Date: May 29, 2006 11:04 am PT
Review:  Gameplay: The game is like the past 2 games, the most revolutionary controls in a sports game, you 
 use your left joystick to move the character around, right joystick to throw out some punches, and 
 to block.... just hold the right trigger then just move the right joystick while holding the right 
 trigger. This may sound complicated at first, but you will get the hang of it, Really Superb gameplay.
 
  
  Graphics: The Graphics Are Just Freaking Awesome, you could see the players sweat, cut, swell, everthing, the 
 shorts has some cool physics to make the clothes seem to move real, also really smooth animations, the 
 rag doll knock outs are the best, some of the best graphics you will see this year for the 360.
 
  
  Sounds: Sound Is Also Great, you her the bones crack when you knock your opponent out, the crowds 
 sound, the commentries could be better and a more variety of music in the menues.
  
  Multiplayer: Is also good like the the career mode, but you can't play the with your kind of controlls 
 setup, so prepare to feel like your playing the game for the firs time.
  
  Overall: Boxing Fans And Sports Fan Pick It Up, really solid sport game, could of fix a couple of 
 problems here and there but really awesome. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: heir_jordan_023
Rating: 8.7
Date: May 28, 2006 11:28 pm PT
Review:  I really enjoyed this game. The gameplay was involving and challenging. Even on the lowest difficulty 
 I had a challenge. My character ended with a 72-1 record with 71 KOs. I had a ton of fun. I made 
 quite a few characters. I made some joke guys too. I made a red head pony tail guy named Clubber. 
 And I made several more mess around guys. I made some of the people I know in it and made their 
 stats terrible so I could beat them up. This game is a definate must play for 360 owners. Give 
 this game a shot and you won't regret it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Soccermn6
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 28, 2006 3:45 pm PT
Review:  This is a great game for fight night fans or just boxing fans in general. Iit has amazing graphics 
 and the gameplay is unbeatable. I also like the commentary and even though it is a little dull 
 at times it is always very insync with the fight itself. There area lot of boxers to chose from 
 hoxever it is missing some big names but if you dont mind then youll be happy with the amount that 
 it DOES have. 
  The real problem with fight night however is the poor career mode. Although it is very long and 
 plenty of unlockables to keep you playing it gets VERY boring inbetween the big fights which take 
 a while to get to after a while. You also find yourself facing guys that are not entirely up to 
 par with you but it is actually very fun and if you dont mind the repetiveness it is awesome and 
 the final problem is the training games are a little unrealistic and get boring after the hundreth 
 time. 
  Overall however the game is very fun and i highly recomend it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: swizz-the-gamer
Rating: 8.8
Date: May 27, 2006 5:04 am PT
Review:  I got the demo of this game a while ago, and then I finnaly bought it. The first thing you notice 
 are the stunning graphics. The textures are fantastic, even the crowd is great! Althought you occasionally 
 get a bunch of people standing next to each other who look exactly the same. 
  
  The gameplay is fun, and often challenging. I'm pretty stuck at the moment. The punches feel very 
 real, and you can almost feel the force behind it. It feels good to land a perfect haymaker and 
 see your oponent hit the canvas.
  
  The way you controll the charchter is great, unless you cant work out the full punch control thing, 
 using the analog stick. You can controll the type of punch, and the strength.
  
  There is more to this game than just punching, you have to use tactics. If you throw haymaker after 
 haymaker, you get very tired. And begin to waver, and your punches begin to get very weak. If your 
 fighting a faster fighter, you have to punch them in the stomach to wind them.
  
  This game brings some RPG elements into it. Before every fight you get the chance to train, with 
 a trainer of your choice (even the burger king king!) . They all specialise in something (speed, 
 power. etc) . You then can choose which kind of training you would like to do, and get your score 
 up in those things. If you train in power your speed goes down, on account of your size. 
  
  There are alot of fighteres you can play as, including the infamous Muhammed Ali! You can choose 
 to rebuild a fighter, like Ali, or create a new one. 
  
  As there is no HUD, you have to put all your faith in the announcers. They say when your getting 
 tired, how the other guy is doing. And pretty much just guide you through the game!
  
  All in all, this game really is worth getting!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: nosobriety
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 25, 2006 12:34 pm PT
Review:  I was hoping, after looking at the pix from the first glimpses of development a looong while back 
 that the game would look as good as it did when completed... it looked amazing back then, and to 
 my surprise, the completed product was jaw-dropping. A perfect example would be the knockout replays, 
 i swear, i'd spend about a couple minutes actually fighting and knocking fools out, and about 10 
 minutes watching the slomo replays, over and over and over. The controls are tight and responsive, 
 actually easier to use with the control sticks than the face buttons, and the challenges can be 
 decent (but i'm such an unbeatable pro i might as well be playing with my eyes closed) . anyway, 
 career mode is great, tons of unlockables, however, one huge bug that absolutely pisses me off 
 is the speed training. you can have a (created) boxer extremely ripped with bulging muscles UNTIL 
 you do the speed training, then, BYEBYE definition, hello flab... i don't understand that at all, 
 but oh well, no game is perfect, if you think otherwise prove me wrong... great game nonetheless. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rei_gs69
Rating: 9
Date: May 24, 2006 4:45 am PT
Review:  fight night round 3 is arguably the best beat-em-up anywhere, ever. "arguably" because it hasn't 
 got any of the elements you'de associate with a traditional beat-em-up, and hardly qualifies as 
 one according to the usual definition, and "best" for exactly the same reason. a great example 
 of excellent graphics blending into a game experience. the controls though are hard to master. 
 its kinda complicated but passing the lessons one by one makes it easy to control. they've lenghtened 
 the career mode with a couple of bonuses. they could have added a couple of legends more. sounds 
 are of the chain. impressive commentary with a great pick of ea tracks. such a gore factor. oxers 
 can get their faces reduced into a realistic bloody pulp. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nuttabutta
Rating: 8.7
Date: May 23, 2006 7:53 pm PT
Review:  After hearing the good reviews of this game, I purchased it with just a slight bit of hesitancy... am 
 I ACTUALLY going to enjoy this? Well, it's made me actually interested in boxing now, and is a 
 great game, to boot!
  One of the biggest ?'s I had for this game was its gameplay. Let me tell you, it delivered! This 
 is a pretty challenging game in career mode, but once you learn your playing style, and get down 
 the surprisingly deep analog controls, you'll be an undisputed champ! 
  The graphics are flat-out amazing. They're the most detailed character models I've ever seen in 
 a game. The swelling, blood, and fabric on your champ's shorts are all impressively detailed. 
 
  The sound is good, but not the standout of this game. The commentary is very repetitive, but the 
 sound of a booming haymaker smacking your opponent's chin is extremely satisfying. 
  The career mode in this game makes up most of the value, though online also contributes. The career 
 mode is pretty loose, which is both good and bad. I've had the game for about two weeks and I've 
 basically cleaned out career mode. There are some ESPN classic fights you can also choose that'll 
 unlock new equipment for career mode. Overall, the value is somewhat lacking, though.
  Despite the lacking sound and value, not to mention the excessive amount of advertising in this 
 game, the gameplay and graphics more than make up for it. Even if you have no interest in boxing, 
 this may give you some more interest than before. Don't think of Fight Night as a sports game, 
 think of it as a great fighting game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Game21x
Rating: 8.6
Date: May 23, 2006 11:59 am PT
Review:  Its late in the fifth round. Fraziers looking wobbly from all the punches Ive landed on him 
 throughout the fight. I figure nows the time to put him down for the count. I go for a left hook 
 to drop him. He parries the punch! All of a sudden I see him bringing back his fist to deliver 
 a devastating left hook to my jaw. My reflexes suddenly kick in and I quickly lean back just as 
 the punch nears me. His misstep has allowed me to deliver a powerful counter haymaker. He drops 
 to the canvas. I head back to my corner with my fist in the air, knowing hes down for the count. 
 
  
  Fight Night Round 3 has landed on the Xbox 360. After playing for hours on end, this has got to 
 be one of the best boxing games ever. Its so much more immersive than any boxing game Ive ever 
 played. It combines near photo realistic graphics with a stellar fighting engine to create one 
 great game. If youre a fan of boxing games, pick this one up. The odds are you wont be disappointed.
 
  
  Let me get this one thing out of the way right now. This is one of the best looking games ever 
 made. Each boxer looks near photo real. At a glance, youd be hard pressed to tell this apart from 
 a real boxing match. The visuals arent just there to make the game itself look good. No, these 
 visuals also play a big part in the way the game is played. EA has decided to do away with the 
 HUD for the Xbox 360 game (however, its still there if you want it) and use the 360s next-gen 
 power to make the game even better in its absence. Without the HUD there to tell you how injured 
 your opponent is, you have to rely on your opponents body language to give you that information. 
 If your opponent is moving sluggishly around the ring, dropping their hands, theyre worn out and 
 itll only take a few more clean punches to drop them. If their face is bruised and bloody, you 
 can inflict more damage by landing clean punches to that area. Its amazing how much more immersive 
 this game is when you eliminate the HUD. If you allow yourself to be sucked in, which wont be 
 that hard, youll really feel like youre in the ring with your opponent.
  
  The single player game does a great job training you for the games main event, the multiplayer. 
 The career mode is a bit on the shallow side. It starts off incredibly easy, even on the hard difficulty 
 and takes a while to ramp up. Once it does, some opponents are a little too difficult. One of the 
 main features, the Rival system, is not nearly as well developed as it was hyped to be. The only 
 difference between a Rival fight and a normal one is that the announcer will say things like these 
 guys just dont like each other. Before a few of the fights, youll see a cutscene of the two 
 of you at the weigh in and youll get to see your character being sucker punched and then youre 
 on the defensive end of your rivals punches from a first person perspective, just like if you 
 were hit with a Stun punch (more on that in a sec) . 
  
  But, if theres one thing wrong with the single player experience, its the computer A. I. The A. I. 
 is incredibly weak and often predictable. For example, sometimes theyll cock a punch back well 
 before they deliver it, giving you ample time to set up a defense lowering parry. Once, during 
 one match, I didnt even look at the screen for an entire round and I knocked them down. Not good. 
 Another round, trying to test the A. I., I put the controller down for an entire round and the A. I. 
 failed to score a knockdown. Most of the time, they just moved around me, blocking punches I wasnt 
 even throwing and barely throwing any punches of their own. 
  
  The game does seem a little lacking in terms of real world boxers. I wouldve liked to see more 
 classic and present day fighters on the roster. The robust character creation system remedies that 
 quite well. In the right hands, people can create amazingly realistic looking versions of real 
 boxers, or anyone else. 
  
  One of the main criticisms of its predecessor Round 2 is the ridiculously unbalanced haymaker system. 
 In that game, you could throw nothing but haymakers throughout the length of the fight with little 
 recourse. Round 3 has balanced the haymaker system, making it much more of a challenge to effectively 
 land one. If you try to throw nothing but haymakers during the fight this time around, the game 
 is going to make you pay for it. Haymakers are easily dodged or parried and take longer to unleash. 
 This gives your opponent time to counter your punch and put a serious hurt on you.
  
  New to the series is the impact punch. These punches are designed to change the course of the fight 
 quickly and drastically. There are two impact punches, the Stun punch and the Flash KO punch. The 
 Stun punch can be very effective if it connects. When it does, it instantly shifts the view of 
 the fight to a first person perspective of the person who was hit. During this period, the player 
 who landed the punch has to land a few punches to put their opponent on the canvas. The defending 
 player has to block or parry the incoming punches to stay on their feet. The Flash KO punch is 
 the most devastating punch in the entire game. If it connects, it instantly drops your opponents 
 health bar to zero and puts them in the KO moment and only a few more punches will put them on 
 the mat. This punch is particularly dangerous because it drops your health bar even if its thrown 
 as the first punch in the fight.
  
  Of course, these punches have their failings, just like all haymakers. These punches take even 
 longer than regular haymakers to unleash, the Flash KO being the longest, and give your opponent 
 plenty of time to lean out of the way or set up a parry. Missing can allow your opponent to really 
 mess you up. The best way to ensure that you connect is to parry your opponents punch. Doing this 
 will sometimes give you the time you need to unleash these punches.
  
  Now onto probably the best part of the game, the multiplayer. This is what will keep you coming 
 back. The multiplayer is handled incredibly well and is exponentially more challenging and entertaining 
 than playing against the A. I. Whether youre playing against someone in the same room or over the 
 internet, the matches are always exciting and unpredictable. Playing a multiplayer match is far 
 more fulfilling and engaging experience. Theres no way to effectively predict whats coming next, 
 like in a real boxing match. Online matches were incredibly smooth and lag free, something thats 
 very important to this game, where the slightest delay can give you or your opponent the time needed 
 to counter with a well timed parry or dodge. The online lobby makes it very easy to hop in and 
 out of a match. EA did a very good job in crafting the entire online experience. I never had a 
 problem setting up or finding a match to my liking. 
  
  To wrap things up, Fight Night Round 3 is easily the best game in the series, hands down. It rebalances 
 the incredibly unbalanced haymaker system from the last game and actually adds a lot more strategy 
 to the game. The graphics are simply a sight to behold, and the removal of the HUD creates a level 
 of immersion not found in other games, including the other versions on previous generation consoles. 
 The A. I. couldve used some work and the career mode lacks real depth but other than that, its 
 very hard to fault this game. The multiplayer will definitely hook you long after youve put away 
 the gloves in the career mode. This is quite possibly the best boxing game ever made.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Niels-C-86
Rating: 8.4
Date: May 22, 2006 10:35 pm PT
Review:  Fight Night Round 3 is a really great game. Besides from being a graphically well made game, the 
 control of your boxer feels quite intuitive and natural. However, since the boxing itself is performed 
 by using the right and left stick on the controller, it will take some getting used to for newcomers 
 to the series. But when the learning process is over, you are facing a great game you can return 
 to often.
  Unfortunately, the career mode, and the entire game, can easily become Monotonous. This means that 
 the game will be one of those games you pull out when you need a quick gaming satisfaction, one 
 also get from fast paced arcade games.
  This is overall a great game, with a lot of classic fights and boxers. Yet the variation is small, 
 so if youre not into fighting og boxing games, this probably won't be down your alley. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: snaretrap745
Rating: 7.2
Date: May 22, 2006 7:43 pm PT
Review:  i played it in target, so i know i can't say i have fully experienced this game, but it was alright. 
 nothing great. graphics were nice, but i didn't feel like playing for hours. i don't really have 
 much else to say. apparently i need 100 words. .......... ............ ..................
  
  fight night is a game made by ea sports it is a boxing game i like boxing games i also like 
 pie. i'm also very drunk. i don't feel like doing a word count so i'll keep syaing **** until i 
 get the 100 words. aweokhj sdfoiaer asdlf jsaof weoifsjf osaf waoeifj saf; lkjsaf ;awelj fowaifjsa; 
 dfasdjf ;weha sdfnaw; erawoie rfjasjaweorj asorijasdr osairjsad; oj oi osfosf saldjfe a; ie ;aiojd 
 ;a dofaja; a ojf; aa sfoi oi iosad foiaew; owe ;jew l; oaissfoisaf. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Norborb
Rating: 8.6
Date: May 20, 2006 5:32 pm PT
Review:  Fighting games have always been a staple genre with easy to understand but challenging game play 
 and great multiplayer they have been around science the early 90s. But a sub-genre of these games 
 exists, Boxing games. With sport and fighting game mechanics, many turn there nose up at them, 
 but in recent years the Fight Night series have given them a revival. This new game attempts to 
 focus on immersion and realism using new hardware. 
  
  The first thing you may notice, is that this game could very well be the best looking game ever, 
 seriously. The HUD is turned off by default and you must struggle to find who is winning. From 
 heavy breathing to bleeding noses and of course commentary you must find out who is winning and 
 by how much. The HUD can be turned on, but why would you want to. This new realism and fancy graphics 
 would be pointless if they actual boxing part of the game was bad. Thankfully, that isnt true. 
 Unlike other boxing games, this one doesnt rely on the haymaker, as a matter of fact; they are 
 very difficult to land at all. Instead its more about playing to your characters strengths. There 
 are lots of different styles and techniques of fighting but it really only comes down to weather 
 youre a power hitter, a fast guy, or a balance of both. There are a great amount of game play modes. 
 The standard career mode and instant action of course are here. There is also great online play 
 and an ESPN rivalries mode. This lets you play out the most famous rivalries like Ali vs. Frazier. 
 Sadly the Rumble in the Jungle is not here (nor is George Forman) but its forgivable.
  
  The focus is definitely on the visuals and action. However the audio is left out of the picture. 
 The punching sound effects are good but the announcing is horrible, annoying, and often tell an 
 inaccurate depiction of the fight and the fighters. One minute your opponent is sucking wind and 
 the next its anyones fight according to them. The ringside trainers are no better. Speaking of 
 them after every round you have to heal your cuts and bruises. At first this seams cool and innovative, 
 but by the third match its just repetitive and annoying. The overall audio makes the no HUD game 
 play difficult to comprehend.
  
  This is one of the few real next-gen experiences. It has solid game play and breathtaking realism. 
 It is marred by many problems but they are small compared to the great qualities of this game. 
 If you have a good interest in boxing games or even fighting games, its worth a buy. If not, you 
 could still rent it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eamondude
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 19, 2006 8:21 pm PT
Review:  FNR3 is amazing. Truely next-gen. The fighting is incredibly intense. You really feel as if you 
 are in the ring. The sounds are great. The crunch when you hit your opponent is spine-tingling. 
 Also, the graphics are amazing. One of the best features is ESPN Classic mode. The game is hard, 
 but once you play for a while, the controls become very intuitive. The best part of the game is 
 the gameplay. The true punch control gives you total control of your fighter. Unlike other boxing 
 games. Each of the fighters has a very unique style. This style determines things like blocking, 
 power and speed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ztorin
Rating: 6.8
Date: May 18, 2006 8:42 pm PT
Review:  I'm becoming more and more addicted to this game, and I'm really enjoying progressing with my boxer. 
 The gameplay and presentation are beautiul. Graphically, it's wonderful. I just think they skimped 
 on everything else, aside from the actual boxing match. First, the menus are very lame and boring. 
 Then, the training only consists of the same three regimines. Combo dummy, heavy bag, and weightlifting. 
 There should be SO much more, I think. Also, there is no pre-fight, or post-fight anything. The 
 fight ends, and immediately the stats pop up, and you continue back to the menu screens. No post-fight 
 analysis, no highlight reel/replays, nothing to entertain you at all, after spending round after 
 round of brawling. Next, you only have 3 options for trainers. THREE?? Come on! Next, the "trophy" 
 room is lame and boring. Lastly, the "fight store" is equally as boring and lame. I felt a little 
 let down on everything BUT the actual fighting. Knowing the 360's raw power and storage, this game 
 seems like they rushed it, and left out all of the finer details. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: warmack1
Rating: 7.8
Date: May 18, 2006 12:55 pm PT
Review:  While Fight Night Round 3 has some jaw dropping graphics and intuitive controls the game tends 
 to get a little repetitive and boring.
  
  Fight Night has a career mode, multiplayer and historic fights mode. All are nice, but the career 
 modes is way too easy and takes almost no time at all to beat. So that leaves you with the multiplayer 
 and it gets old after a while.
  
  The graphics lets face it are why we all bought this game and it was almost worth it. They are 
 absolutely awesome especially the fighters themselves. With an overall look and feel with high 
 res HD graphics it's like having a little PC. 
  
  The new controls are nice, having momentum punches and counter strikes similar to DOA series it's 
 a nice touch and brings some new life to the series.
  
  At times though your punches look really slow and don't really come off with the speed they should. 
 After the initial excitement wheres off and you get used to the graphics and are not like, WOW 
 any more, you realize there are only 4 rings to box in and the gameplay gets old in a hurry. My 
 friends after a while don't even want to play because it's always the same thing. 
  
  So if you like boxing games and want to show off a 360 then go get a used copy and you will get 
 much more pleasure out of it then spending the full 65.00 bucks and it's an ok game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: xdRabbitx
Rating: 8.6
Date: May 18, 2006 12:23 am PT
Review:  The best part of the game is the career mode you can take on as your own boxer. You get the opportunity 
 to build yourself or any character, train him and fight current professional boxers as well as 
 past boxers such as Sugar Ray Leonard.
  
  Although the career is very fun to play, and highly addictive I might add. The online play has 
 not fessed up to what I had hoped. Online there are always lag issues and also little niches that 
 opponets will always use aggainst you despite realism. I personally out boxed a guy online by landing 
 345 punches out of 420 throws, While he only landed 120 punches and had 530 throws; and somehow 
 I was knocked out. eh...
  
  Although the game can definetely be frustrating at times, it is a good game to play when you have 
 friends over and also when you feel like releasing some stress on someone's body.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: neogx7
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 17, 2006 10:13 am PT
Review:  FIght Night Round 3 is a technological knock out and truly next gen in every aspect the controls 
 are precise and the the sheer quickness and snap of every punch is felt seen and heard it just 
 feels like boxing should and takes you into the ring without the bruises.
  
  The in game graphics are phenominal the skin maps lighting and details make this game photorealistic 
 its what weve all been waiting for in games and its was done with a superb physics model the way 
 fighters react to a punch to the jaw is just like in the tv broadcasts in real life not the previous 
 wonky physics.
  
  It deserves to have a 9 because it was made to look real react real and feel real and wasnt short 
 changed if the game seems repetitive its because that is boxing by nature punch after punch and 
 after 5 hours compared to real life 1 hour its quite a difference . 
  
  As is it makes for a a fantastic romp in the ring and give you plenty of boxing style flexibilty 
 and technique you just gotta invest the time in mastering it or youll get knocked out quick. This 
 aint no Everquest boys put up them dukes! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Aromon
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 16, 2006 9:39 pm PT
Review:  All talk ladies and gentlemen. That is all it is. If the Playstation would have been superior, 
 why have they delayed it three friggin' times? It was going to suck balls and they knew it, so 
 they had to set the release date back to give it just a little more "power" than the 360, which 
 they probably used to make their "revolutionary" technology. I know what your thinking, this is 
 a review for Fight Night, yes it is, but this whole thing about PS3 being 3 or 4 times powerful 
 than the 360 is crap. Someone who says that doesn't know the facts and has no idea what anything 
 means when it comes to specs in console language. The 360 wields 3, (THREE I TELL YOU) processors 
 that go at 3.2 GHZ a second. So that is a total of 9.6 GHZ when the console is being completely 
 used (which no game has done yet, including FN and GRAW) . The PS3 has 1 (ONE I TELL YOU) processor 
 that clocks in at 3.2 GHZ. There is a catch though. They say in that 1 Cell Processor they have 
 7 synenergizer processors. To me, that sounds like they are taking a 3.2 GHZ processor and basically 
 pushing way past it's capabilities with 7 sub-processors running within it. Maybe if it was 8.2 
 GHZ, it would make more sense, but 1 3.2 GHZ processor (See for yourself, just search google) ?
 
  Well, now that all that is cleared up, let's focus on Fight Night Baby!
  
  Graphics - Superb, absolutely amazing. You want realistic, you will have it in these visuals. You 
 can actually see their eyes roll back in their head when they are knocked down.
  Gameplay - Excellent. They make it a little difficult to defend yourself and try to fight the other 
 guy, but 'practice makes perfect.' Also, some new controls that weren't in the last one (Stun punch)
 
  Sound - Good. You will hear the same things fairly often but they do a good job with having the 
 right sounds at the right times. 
  Value - Right now, it's worth buying. You have a very limited selection on the 360 and you should 
 at least check out the games that are the cream of the crop right? If your cheap rent it, but if 
 you have the money, it's a safe bet to say you will love every bloody minute of it.
  Tilt - I like this game overall for two reasons
  1) it gives us a glimpse of what the future 
 holds for the 360, and there aint no way in hell the PS3 weilds more graphical power than the Xbox, 
 but it will be close enough to debate.
  2) It's truly a stunning experience the first time you play it and it really never gets old. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yeoj7
Rating: 10
Date: May 13, 2006 10:02 am PT
Review:  All i can say is that i can't put down my controller. This game is like a drug. I can't stop playing 
 no matter how repetitive it gets. I LOVE THIS GAME!!! It will be good use to your xbox 360 and 
 a good use for your entertainment. Worth every penny i say. I thought this was just going to be 
 some boxing game that just does everything they did in the last game over and over. But this game 
 is different. This game is making me put more use to my 360 cause i've beaten my other 3 games 
 i have (DOA4, COD2, PDZ) . I'm not done with the career mode but still even if there wasn't career 
 mode i would still play non-stop. Listen to me: GET THIS GAME NOW!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JetLag123
Rating: 8.7
Date: May 12, 2006 1:17 pm PT
Review:  there isnt too much to say besides wow! the gameplay feels much more fluid and the graphics are 
 beyond stunning. this is a great party game and xbox live is just as fun as everyone had hoped 
 it would be. great game and a must buy for any 360 owner. 
  
  watching the slow motion punches just never gets old. very immersive and if you just want to quickplay. 
 start off at the warehouse... really makes the graphics shine. plus the control is very tight, although 
 you'll see a bit of a difference from round 2 but it also makes it feel more realistic than arcade 
 like, and thats what fight night is all about. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tha_King_Of_Ny
Rating: 9
Date: May 11, 2006 4:18 pm PT
Review:  One of the best fighting games I've ever played. 
  The storyline and gameplay for FNR3 is pretty superb. During carreer mode u can make ur own fighter 
 or u can played as a classic boxer. When ur done creating or picking u start signing contracts 
 and fighting people until u become the champ. During career u will fight this guy name sweet over 
 and over again cause he always wants to get revenge. The graphics are great and realistic, it looks 
 like instead of playing it ur watching it on tv. The XBOX LIVE gameplay is awasome, like u can 
 play a normal match or u can customize ur own one. My closing comments is that if u have the xbox 
 or ps2 version u shouldnt get this one because is the same thing but if u dont have it and u feel 
 this version will be better than buy it, but all of the versions are the same thing except for 
 that in the 360 version the graphics are better. Oh yeah if u have the psp version buy this version 
 cause the psp version is whack!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bjmoney
Rating: 10
Date: May 9, 2006 7:32 pm PT
Review:  i dont know how to start dis review but dis game is raw (da real version, not da downloaded demo) . i 
 luv dis game because how u can mess up opponents usin da stun punch which puts dem in dis first 
 person mode which mean dat person cant clinch like a little b*tch. i luv to do dat on xbox live (my 
 username on there is SABERBLAZE you'll on find me on da weekends) because dey want to do fast combos 
 but i put dat one hitta quitta on them. dats how i get all my wins. da graphics are tight becuz u 
 can see da wind blowin in da mouth when u do haymaker punches da gloves push in and out when u 
 do your haymaker punches to da head. da career will keep u goin to da end. and multiplayer is tight 
 too. if u like boxin games. make sure u get dis if u have a xbox360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tischla
Rating: 8.8
Date: May 9, 2006 4:41 pm PT
Review:  Fight Night Round 3 is one of the best xbox 360 games for sure. my only problem with it is that 
 once its done, its done. the achievemnts are very easy to get and only took me 40 fights, most 
 of which only lasted a round or 2 on the easiest difficulty of course. as the game went on though, 
 it got increasingly difficult, even on easy, but its probably because of my aggressive style, the 
 defensive blocking style fighters almost whooped my ass a few times. the hardest parts where trying 
 to get the bonus cash for knocking your opponent out in the sixth round for example. the hard part 
 of that is trying to keep your strength up while keeping your opponents down until the 6th round 
 without getting a TKO on him. the graphics are just fantastic, beautiful, stunning, amazing, whatever 
 word you can use to go with those, thats what it is. the sound is just as good. the controls and 
 gameplay without the HUD is really well done. though you may have to take a second to move away 
 from your opponent to check out how your boxer is holding up, it is still much more realistic than 
 the HUD. in multiplayer, the HUD will come in handy though as it will give you a strategical advantage. 
 back to my only problem with the game. once its done, its done. yes, it has multiplayer, and yes 
 its a bit different than single player, but its still the same boxing over, and over, and over, 
 and over again. overall, great game, but im glad i only rented it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: haloman92
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 8, 2006 4:26 pm PT
Review:  This is one of my favorite xbox 360 game right beside Call of Duty 2. You heal your guy between 
 rounds, train before the big fight, and must make your way from nothing to the best. The only negative 
 of this awsome game is that the controls take a bit long to get used to, but once you got em its 
 all good. The graphics kill, along with the tight slow motion knock out scenes that never get old. 
 If you have an xbox 360 i definetly recomend getting this excellent game. If you dont have a 360, 
 well, get one!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Slappnuttz
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 8, 2006 9:17 am PT
Review:  I rented this game last week. Half my friends told me that the game sucked (but looked really good) 
 and the other half said it was a must buy. So, I rented it to see what I thought. I put the game 
 in and tried a quick match, I hated it. It felt like the controls were delayed and I just couldn't 
 get the hang of it. I took it out and and started playing Tiger Woods.
  Then the other day I was talking to a friend and I told him what I thought of the game. He told 
 me he had the same feelings at first but he started a career and put it on easy mode and after 
 a couple of matches he was able to change the difficulty and he loved the game. So, I went home 
 and tried the same thing. Well I have played it for 16 hours in the last 3 days and I cannot put 
 the game down. This is a must have for your video game library. I am going out today to purchase 
 it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: goat2001
Rating: 8.1
Date: May 7, 2006 5:53 pm PT
Review:  Fight Night round 3 is without a doubt one of the best if not the best sports title EA develops/publishes. 
 Yes that is right, I indirectly said Fight Night is a better game than Madden. No I'm not crazy 
 I'm just tired of marginally better sports titles released once a year with a few new bells and 
 whistles added along with an updated roster. Unfortunately Fight Night is starting to fall into 
 this category. 
  
  Round 3 is the best one of the series. Round 2 implemented the haymaker and being able to punch 
 while on the move. A huge improvement that any fan could tell you. This year however it is the 
 implementation of Impact punches. One of these is still the haymaker that has been toned down a 
 bit because of how easy it was to throw only haymakers. Second is a punch that will knock you down 
 instantly. The third will put you in a third person prospective and then a punch or two puts your 
 opponent on the mat. For the 360 the game looks outstanding. I thought the game looked great on 
 the PS2 and XBOX but the visuals really got stepped up a notch. Adding to the mix is some realistic 
 sweat, bruises, cuts and the game really comes to life. They also added boxing styles which gives 
 your boxer a different stance but also the way they deliver a punch and different styles of blocking. 
 
  
  With a few positives I do have some negatives I need to list. First being career mode. It has remained 
 relatively unchanged. This is a huge hit because last years title's one glaring weakness was it's 
 career mode. While EA did tweak it (probably marginally worse than last years mode) I didn't see 
 any improvement. They tried adding rivalries which are cool in concept but your rivals aren't really 
 all that different than the bum you beat up the fight before. One of Madden's strong points besides 
 the solid gameplay is its season/franchise portion of the game. It really lets you get in depth 
 if you want to or doesn't penalize you if you're not looking to play 30 years of a franchise it 
 is simply there. I don't know how to fix this I just know it needs to be fixed and I know EA can 
 do it.
  
  The Artificial Intelligence really ranges from tough as nails to picking on the little boy across 
 the street. Most of the matches will be a breeze but every once in a while you'll come across a 
 fighter that seems like Ali himself had no hope against this guy. This really does take away from 
 the single player experience. However the main reason you'll be playing this title for any length 
 in time is because the multiplayer. It is really fun and there is nothing more satisfying than 
 knocking out your buddy who has been talking about how he is going to pound you all week. The soundtrack 
 gets relatively boring after you hear the same tracks over and over. You can bypass this with tracks 
 from the 360.
  
  Things that have been in place since the orignal Fight Night are the very creative/intuative analog 
 stick controls. Defense... check, Offense... check pretty much the same solid gameplay is still in 
 place. A few personal preference would be to make the jab even more effective and to speed back 
 up the combat, it has gotten noticably slower for the sake of "realism". Honestly I can understand 
 throwing punches slowly after several rounds of action but not after the opening bell. I like my 
 fighters like I like my women, fast (Just messing around I'm a married man!)
  
  Round 3 is a mixed bag for me. It brings back the solid gameplay adds a few things here and there 
 but doesn't make the kind of leap I wanted from the game and know that EA is capable of producing. 
 For fans of the series this is a definate rental then see if it is worth the $40 or $60. For people 
 new to the series this is a great game if you're into sports games and/or boxing. This game falls 
 short on a few fronts but is ultimately a solid game regardless. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chi-You-Man
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 7, 2006 2:25 pm PT
Review:  Fight Night is Awesome!!!!!
  Its certainly one of the best 360 games out now, with its cutting edge visuals, great soundtrack 
 and awesome punching action!.
  There is a story mode, aracde modes, multiplayer, create character modes and online gamplay, what else 
 could you want?.
  Seriosuly, on a good HD TV or if you use Advanced Scart it could be mistaken for a real TV boxing 
 match. The control are near perfect and it has a pretty long lifespan. It certainly is the best boxing 
 game out there and one of the best soundtracks!. It only has one slight flaw, the story mode could 
 have been tweaked slightly, but thats it! the stroy mode is still good fun to play. Also smashing 
 your friend's into the canvas is damn fun.
  So what are you waiting for? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maxinshoes
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jul 14, 2006 8:41 am PT
Review:  I swear to God, this game looks so real, people could mistake it for TV. You have full control 
 of your punches (by using the right thumbstick) and full control of your boxer.
  Every punch you deliver makes you feel powerful, you can see the blood spray from your opponents 
 mouth, you can see his facial expressions and injuries, see the sweat glisten from the light shining 
 through the windows.
  With three new "Impact Puches" to choose from. My personal favourite is the Haymaker! Enjoy.
 
  This game offers much more boxing experience than Fight Night 2004 and Fight Night Round 2 put 
 together!
  BEST BOXING GAME EVER!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: obiken
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 6, 2006 11:13 am PT
Review:  First of all I reviewed this game on X-Box and gave it about the same score, and Cons that I have 
 are the same. They have Legends in this game that I dont think belong there like Brock.; others 
 like Rocky Marciano, Carlos Monzon, or Joe Louis, that do and are not. 
  However, the graphics are UNREAL. How you can give this any less than a 10 score on graphics boggles 
 my mind and I have been a semi-pro Game player Since 1989. You can see the beads of sweat on them, 
 the gashes are so real. Unless you want to really step into the ring and duke it out it doesnt 
 get any more realistic looking. The announcing is ok, but could be better. With the connection 
 now between EA and ESPN they could get the whole crew like Max Kellerman, Teddy Atlas, and Sugar 
 to do better. The announcing is however, way better than in FN 2004.
  The the flash knockouts are hard to execute but are a new neat feature. You still have the old 
 stuff that works and the real genius is they dont change what works. The punch control, the gym, 
 the card girls, ect. 
  
  I have a low end High def TV, It has a VGA connector, just like on a computer monitor. If you dont 
 have a high def TV get the HD ADAPTER WITH THE VGA connector and plug 360 into you computer monitor 
 and you will experience HD Playing. 
  
  IMPORTANT: DO NOT GET THE REGULAR X-BOX VERSION OF THIS GAME AND EXPECT IT TO PLAY ON 360 IT WILL 
 NOT, TRUST ME ON THIS. NON OF 2006 EA SPORTS TITLES ARE BACKWARDS COMPATIBLE.
  
  TRUST ME, if you love boxing, or EA, you wll love this game. 
  
  obiken
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: go_bears360
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 4, 2006 5:51 pm PT
Review:  This game is surprisingly one of the most addictive sports games I have ever played. Also the controls 
 and visuals are next-gen and are what we have all been waiting for. It's great how you can really 
 change how your characters looks, whether you want him to be buff or fat, big nose or small nose 
 etc. it can be done. Much like the privious game after training you can see how much it affected 
 your characters looks. 
  Fight Night Round 3 does anything it can to be realistic, for default it has the HUD off because 
 in real life people don't have life and energy meters. You have full control of your punches with 
 the right stick and dodge with the left thumb stick. It is one of the easiest controlls I have 
 ever played with. 
  Since no game is perfect I can't give this a 10, also since I know that this game can only get 
 better I know that Fight Night Round 4 will be at least a 9.8. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Benhenthorn
Rating: 8.4
Date: May 4, 2006 3:20 pm PT
Review:  The first thing youll notice when playing Fight Night Round 3 is its lifelike players and realistic 
 looking rings. If you choose career mode you can make a character and build him up from a newbie, 
 all the way to the champion. Every fighter you come across has a different style of fighting which 
 makes some fighters harder than others regardless of their stats. You can win or lose the fight 
 by KO, TKO, DQ, or by the ref calling the fight because someone is bleeding too bad. The only problem 
 I have with Fight Night Round 3 is that you cant save your created characters unless they exist 
 in career mode, but other than that, this is a wonderful game and easily recommendable to anyone. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Raymin4
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 4, 2006 9:39 am PT
Review:  
  I really haven't played many boxing or wrestling games over the years, but when I saw the graphics 
 in a demo at GameStop before the game was released.... My interest in the Genre began to grow....
 
  
  I haven't actually purchased this game..... yet... but I managed to pry it from my friends sweaty 
 grip and borrow it for a few days....
  
  If you have played the last installment of this game, you will be right at home with the controls. 
 Total control punching worked out well in the past so naturally it was a must for Round 3. 
  
  I was not used to the controls at all.... which is why I rated the learning curve at 1 to 2 
 hours.... you will be able to start throwing the basic punches right off the bat.... but to really 
 get the hang of throwing combinations and blocking..... it'll take a while...
  
  Like I mentioned before, the graphics are awesome.... and the gameplay is excellent. The set-up 
 of the fights are pretty realistic and the sound is very good.
  
  Bottom line - - - If you want the best boxing game around.... get yourself a 360 and a copy of round 
 3. If you aren't a fan of boxing games like me..... its worth renting or talking one of your friends 
 into borrowing it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xoverkillx
Rating: 8.4
Date: May 3, 2006 6:14 pm PT
Review:  Fight night round 3 is a awesome game. THe gameplay in this game is very good its really fun. The 
 thing that really makes this game though is the graphics. They are so realistic and life like. 
 My family thought I was watching a boxing match when I played it because of how realistic it is. 
 The only thing is the physics are just a little off but thats not a very big deal. The game has 
 some cool characters that you would recognize. THe design a character is also a cool feature you 
 can customize such good detail of your characters it is really cool. I would reccomend buying this 
 game you can beat up on your friends, or have a blast on XBL FNR3 is a great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LimeZERO
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 3, 2006 9:40 am PT
Review:  The best looking game yet! It really looks like your watching TV until you heal yourself you see 
 the people in the crowd are kind of shady and of course not as detailed as the boxers. I love how 
 they have Italian Shorts and Gloves.. that's so pimp! It's fun. It's a rush. And it never ends with 
 having a tourney with your buds. 
  It's also the best I've probably never played.... Definitely the best sports game yet! My favorite 
 part the game is fight store. It's diffferent than the Xbox version by you getting a lot choices 
 of everything. Like I said before I love the Italy choices! The one thing I really don't understand 
 is that they have a boxing ring level in chicago. The game was made at EA Chicago in Chicago and 
 yet there is no Chicago to pick from when you create your guy??? I really don't understand that. 
 They have every other **** city in the US. and no Chicago. A major city and it's not there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: daveg1
Rating: 7.9
Date: May 2, 2006 5:42 am PT
Review:  i was really looking forward to play this game more than any other in the series as im sure most 
 people would have been from the time it was announced last year at e3! the first thing you notice 
 about fight night round 3, is the graphical updates this game has had thanks to the extra power 
 360 offer's, most notably the boxers them selves, truely looking like a next gen title from the off,, gameplay 
 wise apart from the new punche's you pull off using the left analoug stick, not much else has changed 
 from a purely gameplay stand point!
  
  the one miner thing with the game play is that the ai for me had'nt come on a great deal since 
 the last game,, since you can still do the same thing over and over to win fights, which is what 
 i found my self doing a lot of the time, which from a gameplay stand point becomes stale after a 
 few fights!
  the training modes also become tiresome after a while too, the inclusion of a few more training 
 regimes would be great e. a! so once your boxers stats are up you will find yourself just skipping 
 through them to get to your next pay day or title fight!, another thing i thought was a let down 
 was the weigh in while its new and good, the thing i didnt like was the ability not to fight back 
 with your rival,, on-line is where it comes up great, there is nothing more satisfiying that knocking 
 some guy out around the other side of the globe with a well timed power punch!!! plus its an easy 
 1000 gamer points!! all in all after you get past the miner things i mentioned its still a solid 
 inclusion to the series and still a great sequal to fight night!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hellsstudios
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 1, 2006 2:06 pm PT
Review:  very good amazing very good amazingvery good amazing very good amazingvery good amazing very good 
 amazingvery good amazing very good amazingvery good amazing very good amazvery good amazing very 
 good amazingingvery good amazing very good avery good amazing very good amazingmazingvery good 
 amazing very goodvery good amazing very good amazing amazingvery good amazing very good avery good 
 amazing very good amazingmazingvery good amazing very goodvery good amazing very good amazing amazingvery 
 good amazing very good amazing very good amazingvery good amazingvery good amazinvery good amazing 
 very good amazingg very good amazingvery good amvery good amazing very good amazingazing very good 
 amazingvery good amazing very good amazingvery good amazing very good amazingvery good amazing 
 very good amazingvery good amazing very good amazing 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zonmom2508
Rating: 8.7
Date: May 1, 2006 7:58 am PT
Review:  Wow this game is amazing for a sports game. There is a lot of good and bad in this game though... First 
 the good things. The graphics are amazing, i was blown away when i saw the in game graphics. the 
 sweat, blood, physics are insane. The body movements from punches and the trunks movement are awesome. 
 The only bad things is the punch stick thing. Its kinda slow for my liking i need more fast pace 
 than this game. I had fun this low blowing people in this game. I like the in game advertisements 
 as well. I cant wait to see fight night round 4 for xbox 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: masterchief0292
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 30, 2006 6:04 pm PT
Review:  Fight night round 3 on the 360 lets just say is one of the most graphically amazing sports game 
 ever. The game looks amazing sweat dripps down the players body and the characters movement look 
 so lifelike. The sound in the game is great the sound of your oponents nose breaking. The character 
 customation leaves some to be desired but still great. The arenas are awsome and all very different. 
 The game is long at about 15-20 hours. The first sports games for the 360 by ea have been dissapointing 
 but this is not a dissapointmet it is an amazing game. The controlls are amazing instead of button 
 mashing you swing the right thumbstink in different directions to punch. The commentary is great 
 no audio stitching problem's at all. The game is a blast and is definately the best fight night 
 ever. The multiplayer is great online and off. You will pick it up and wont put it down this is 
 an awsome game for any sports fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Grant_Guy
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 30, 2006 6:11 am PT
Review:  Gameplay 10/10
  
  Wow you really feel like your boxing you can do a bunch of diffrent moves like left and right hooks 
 jabs, upercuts, stun punches, K. O punches and haymakers this will be the closest to boxing you 
 can get other than getting in a ring.
  
  Graphics 10/10
  
  1 word WOW!!!! Even without an hd-tv i was blown away and it stays consistant throughout the whole 
 game.
  
  Sound 10/10
  
  Good anouncers and when you get hit you can hear the sit and the blood come out it; s amazing.
 
  
  value 8/10 
  
  The achievements are a little bit too easy but there is multiplayer and it doesn't lag so you might 
 want to keep playing this game.
  
  tilt 9/10
  
  I had a lot of fun with this game and anyone who likes boxing or is a graphic whore BUY THIS GAME!!!. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dcl1993
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 29, 2006 8:01 pm PT
Review:  This game is truly AMAZING!
  The graphics are so realistic you can feel the pain!
  The sound, omg AWESOME! you can hear the crowd and everything!
  The gameplay, so fun if you love 
 beat 'em ups.
  I don't own this game but, I played it at Target for about 20 mins and got a really good feel for 
 the game.
  I was having so much fun beating other guy up I started laughing...........
  This game series just keeps getting better and better just because of the graphics, now you can 
 se sweat, frabic, and face motions.
  This game is a true boxing game, or Fight Night game I should say. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mungen_Jin
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 29, 2006 7:59 pm PT
Review:  Not only is this game stunning to the eyes (in a vary good way) but is just fun. It not only simulates 
 becoming a champion boxer but you can play out the fights you have always wanted to see happen 
 and some of the classics that you may have watched on T. V. This game is a testament to how all 
 fighting games should be done. They have great detail on the backround of were you are fighting 
 as well as little beeds of sweat dripping off of the fighters. The instant repalys could have been 
 taken right out of video recorded fights and The total punch contro is still great. In short BUY 
 THIS GAME IF YOU LIKE BOXING OR NOT. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Splayatino
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 29, 2006 9:25 am PT
Review:  One of my favorite games series' in gaming. I've been playing EA boxing since games since knock 
 out kings, I loved Punch Out & Ring King on the NES, I even liked Ready 2 Rumble on the DreamCast. 
 Put it wasnt until Fight Night 2004 when I truly loved boxing games. The unique control mechanic 
 got me sucked right in. I never use the button in this game, & i like how it's more balanced for 
 button mashers & analog stick users to fight in this iteration. Lets face it this game has the 
 best charcter models in games to date. Which is fabulous but i'm still in love with the gameplay. 
 I play my matches like a real fight i jab, block, parry & counter. I am a god in this game, my 
 record is flawless though I have gotten close to losing on certain occasions. The multiplayer is 
 by far the best part or the game, theres nothing like owning a real person in the virtual wolrd 
 by leaving their face bloody & swollen. Career mode is nothing special the A. I. is weak & easy 
 and i hate how you cant create a perfect boxer in career, but it is more realistic. I just feel 
 like we should have been given a choice on whether or not we wanted a realistic boxer or a perfect 
 boxer. But you can still make one for mulitplayer mode which is great. It's an overall great game 
 that has can be simplistic yet surprisingly deep. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: soulreaper187
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 27, 2006 11:55 pm PT
Review:  Fight Night Round 3 is a recent release for the 360
  that I desided to buy and try out, let me tell you i'm glad 
  I did. lets start with the graphics 
 to be honest I don't think
  there next gen quility but they are definitily hi quility. and
  that was enough for me lets face it when the game does
  a retake of your knock out blow to your 
 aponets head
  and shows the bloud shoot out of the mouth it is most
  gratifying. not to mention all the other details that are
  in the game (wink the ring girls) 
 cough as I was saying
  EA realy paid attention to the look of the game. the sound
  efects in the game were superb again the knock down
  blow it sounds like bones breaking very 
 cool. the sound-
  track to the game is all right but I think they could have
  done much better but it didn't take away from the overall
  game play at all. The game controls 
 were a little tricky
  to get used to at first because the game promotes total
  boxing controll with the right thumb stick but thankfully
  you can change that in the options 
 menu. I would suggest
  using the buttons for your jabs and cross punches
  and learn to use the stick to throw your uppercuts and
  heymakers thats what worked the best 
 for me. before
  each fight you are allowed to go into the fight store to get
  new equipment for your fighter as well as customizing
  him as well with tatoos, and taunts just 
 to name a few
  choices. for thoes of you who have played previous
  incarnations of this game you may be disapointed with
  the trainer selection since there is only 
 3 once you unlock
  the 3rd choice and there is only one cut man that
  you can either controll your self or have the game do it for you.
  there is in game advertising 
 and I think it adds to authentisity
  of the game but i'll let you make the call there. 
  So inconclusion if your thinking about trying out a boxing
  game for the first time or are a 
 long time fan of the genra
  I say this is a must have for your system. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CrazedColombian
Rating: 9.7
Date: Apr 27, 2006 7:26 pm PT
Review:  Quick review for those who need a quick decision!
  Fight Night Round 3 is amazing, and I hate boxing !!! Once I got this game I couldn't stop playing! 
 This is very addictive and is very fun! This game is one of the best for the Xbox 360 so far! This 
 is truely a great reason to have a Xbox 360. This games look is also amazing! The graphics are 
 life like! No other game even comes close to looking as good as this game. The gameplay is easy 
 and fun. It took me about 15 minutes to get down the controlls. The sound it awsome! You can hear 
 the blood drop, you can hear the crack of the bones, and you can hear the the screams of the crowd. 
 The sound track is awsome too. This game is very addictive and is even better online. I love USING 
 ALI !!!! and the achievements are easy to get
  
  downside:
  the game doesnt have many boxers I want George Forman
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ConMan09
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 2, 2006 6:50 pm PT
Review:  Fight Night Round 3 is amazing! Once I got this game I couldn't stop playing! This is very addictive 
 and is very fun! This game is one of the best for the Xbox 360 so far! This is truely a great reason 
 to have a Xbox 360. This games look is also amazing! The graphics are life like! No other game 
 even comes close to looking as good as this game. The gameplay is easy and fun. It took me about 
 15 minutes to get down the controlls. The sound it awsome! You can hear the blood drop, you can 
 hear the crack of the bones, and you can hear the the screams of the crowd. The sound track is 
 awsome too. This game is very addictive and is even better online. You can play hundreds of people 
 and beat them up for trash talking! So my final words are if you have an Xbox 360 then go get this 
 game!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: F3V3R
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 23, 2006 3:47 am PT
Review:  really fun game, i love the fight night series its so addictive and so satisfying to knock your 
 opponent out cold! theres nothing like sending him to the floor. The graphics are unbelievable, 
 it is so real! there are some really great songs in the game, the career is really really fun. 
 I had very high hopes for this game and it was even better than i expected, i recomend this game 
 100%... get it get it get it get it get it get it get it get it get it get it get it get i tget 
 it get it get it get it get it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GTAG-daver999
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 25, 2006 4:30 am PT
Review:  This is one of my favourite games for the 360 but it still has a few bad points and ill get them 
 out the way first
  
  The worst thing I would say about this game is the sound not because it is bad quality but because 
 of the in game commentator and the hip hop music. The reason I dont like the commentating is because 
 it gets far to repetitive and it sends me crazy because the commentator more or less just says 
 the same thing as in fight night 2 and Ive heard it all before but at least you have the option 
 to listen to him or turn him off. Also it's not that I dont like hip hop music but the music at 
 the menus also gets repetitive and I am forced to play my own music from my ipod. Also there are 
 a few glitches for example sometimes you see your boxers glove go through your opponents glove 
 in a knockdown cut scene or when you knock down someone near the ropes on the side of the ring 
 the person knocked down will have a dodgy spasm attack next to the ropes. These glitches arent 
 enough to spoil the game but really shouldn't be happening on a next gen game. Now to the good 
 points
  
  The graphics on this game is amazing and on a high definition TV is 10 times better for example 
 at the end of the round and you get treatment from the cut man the boxer almost looks real and 
 the knockdown cut scenes are great. I would say anyone who has played this on a high definition 
 TV and given graphics less than an 8 either has to get there eyes tested are make sure there TV 
 is actually high definition. Another great thing is xbox live which you never get bored with as 
 you do with the career mode. The ranking system is similar to halo 2 where you get a level but 
 is a bit harder to go up levels and also you can see what number you are in the world if you are 
 above the 1000th position. If you maybe find career mode a bit too easy then xbox live will definitely 
 challenge you because there is someone always better than you and you have to figure out your opponents 
 fighting style and come up with a game plan to beat it. I would say the only problem with xbox 
 live is sometimes it glitches a bit in a game but you can always go into a lobby and challenge 
 someone to a ranked match who has a good connection. 
  
  To finish of if you liked fight night 2 this is a must buy especially when you can now play online 
 and also if you like boxing games this is again a must buy because it is definitely the best boxing 
 game out yet. 
  
  I hope my review was helpful anyone wanting a fight my gamer tag is daver999
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: redog156
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 19, 2006 10:33 pm PT
Review:  Honestly If your new to the series then this is a great game, but if your not, its hardly worth 
 a look. outside of the amazing 360 graphics it brings nothing new what so ever to the table. The 
 fight mechanics are good... but they were good in the first one and alot of the in-game issues from 
 previous fight nights still have yet to be addressed. The fact that AI boxers seem to become MORE 
 elusive when they are badly hurt has baffled me since the original. This game completley lacks 
 substance outside of the ring the career mode is quite boring with only Handful of trainers to 
 choose from.... no real belts... nor the ability to unify them and no ability to sign with promoters 
 or challenge other fighters. Another HUGE omission is the ring entrances, they have actually gotten 
 worse since last year. This is a big part of the sport and it is an injustice for it to be left 
 out, not only that but when u do win a belt your fighter does not even come to the ring when its 
 on the line... what !?. All in all this is the same game with less substance and better visuals 
 (in typical EA fashion) they have ignored existing problems in favor of implementing new gimmicks. 
 You guys should really take a deeper look at this game and its predecessors before you go giving 
 it all this praise 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blitzkrieg8131
Rating: 9.7
Date: Apr 19, 2006 4:53 pm PT
Review:  I have finally found a fighting game that I loved. Fight Night 3 is awsome. I'll start with the 
 graphics. The graphics on this game are amazing. I love the way that sweat sprays into the air 
 everytime you connect with a punch. It's really cool when you K. O. someone and the ragdoll physics 
 kick in. On the replay of the K. O., it is awsome to watch the slo-mo punch connect and to see the 
 waves run through your opponents cheek. The gameplay is great to. You use the right stick to punch 
 with which adds to the coolness. Everytime a round ends you have time to fix up your boxers cuts 
 and swelling which is awsome. The knockouts are the best part. The slo-mo replays are just so satisfying. 
 The online is slick to but I dont play it much online. This game is a must have for any Xbox 360 
 owner. It doesnt matter if you are a boxing fan or not because I'm not and I love it. BUY THIS 
 GAME!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: solidussnakem
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 19, 2006 2:39 pm PT
Review:  Fight Night Round 3, the best boxing game in the fight night franchise to date. The graphics are 
 unreal and what else can you say about it other than the game makes you feel like your actually 
 fighting a real person. Getting down to the point, fight night round 3 deserves a perfect score, 
 easy to play, down to the point, and just downright addictive. I can't put the control down because 
 I have to knock out someone an extra three times to make myself feel good.
  
  I'm sorry I took so long writing a review to this well deserved, perfect score, boxing game. I 
 apologize to EA sports because I took so long to write a review for this game, you guys really 
 out did yourself's on the 360 console. So all I can say is keep creating the best boxing games 
 ever. To all my boxing peeps out there, you can't go wrong with this game you've gotta pick it 
 up. Do not let this game sit on the self in video game stores pick it up, I used to work for EB 
 games pick it up.
  
  Perfect game for a perfect fight, worth all the money put into it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chaoscougar1
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 19, 2006 1:42 am PT
Review:  I did'nt expect this game to be as good as it is! As soon as you play that first match in career 
 mode you'll be hooked! There's nothing better than counter attacking your opponent with a hay-maker 
 and making him slowly fall to the floor. The career mode isn't as in depth as you would think it 
 would be, you can only sign contracts (get fights) , train (once you've signed a contract) and go 
 to a store to customise and upgrade your character. The thing that hooked me was the game play, 
 no matter how many times you knock your opponent to the floor you'll always want to do it again. 
 Although sometimes the computer can be frustrating with constant blocking in exactly the right 
 places and dodging what ever punch you throw at them, it is overwhelmed by the highly addictive 
 game play. In closing this game isn't just for those boxing fans, its excellent graphics, in-depth 
 sounds and highly addictive game play will keep you (and your friends) entertained for hours. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nks31
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 19, 2006 12:36 am PT
Review:  this is the best boxing game ever made. the only one that comes close is super punch out :) only 
 bc it was part of my childhood and fun as heck! anyways...
  
  pros:
  
  best graphics on 360
  
  very very life like
  
  the "no health bar" actually works for this 
 game. meaning makes it more fun
  
  very life like reactions from boxers.
  
  character creation is very detailed
  
  career mode lets u get a title much earlier that round 
 2 (forty yr old first time champ?!)
  
  again- awesome graphics!
  
  cons:
  
  online play is very laggy
  
  not enough boxers... no mayweather!!! no mosley!!!! no castillo!!! 
 no klitscho!!! no rahman!!!! no trinidad!!! no tarver!!! no marciano!!!! and the list goes on and 
 on
  
  carrer mode lacks options youd like. suh as different types of interactive training. more choices 
 about your weightclass
  
  a few cool gameplay features missing... up to you to decide 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lil_Hazard_76
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 18, 2006 5:26 pm PT
Review:  Okay, I can say more like this game isn't worth the wait because after only playing the demo, you 
 may die without it. I can make a more realistic fighter that looks like me. I Love the graphics, 
 and I don't intend on selling it. This is my fighting NBA 2K6, but looks better. It's also really 
 smooth playing. It reminds me of a movie. I know there ain't barely a chance the PS3 will play 
 at the 360's level instead of better, but I don't want it to, so I don't have to go buy a very 
 expensive consle. E. A. Sports did a good sample of god's power. I'm not saying that god likes to 
 watch people get beat down, but it plays real. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: soxfan6978
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 18, 2006 7:26 am PT
Review:  The Good: Amazing Graphics, great menu set up, suprisingly great commentating, gameplay is awesome, 
 career mode short but sweet, haymakers are tons of fun to watch, ESPN Classic mode brings classic 
 matchups such as LaMotta-Robinson and Ali- Fraizer right to your fingertips, Essentially flawless 
 game, a must buy for boxing fans, or those who enjoy fighting games
  
  The Bad: Career mode a little to short, some very minor flaws in the graphics, not enough pro boxers 
 or venues.
  
  This game is by far the best in the Fight Night series and it has the best graphics of any game 
 out on the X-Box 360 right now.
  
  The Bottom Line: GO OUT AND BUY THIS GAME! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wallebe10
Rating: 8.4
Date: Apr 17, 2006 5:28 pm PT
Review:  After all the hype I heard of Fight Night Round 3, I finally had to give in and get this game and 
 I am not disappointed. This is THE game that shows off the 360's graphical capabilities. I feel 
 like I'm actually watching ESPN. Although there are some minor graphical blemishes, like someones 
 foot going through the ground, they're barely noticeable and barely ever happen.
  
  The sound isn't half bad. The commentaters aren't that bad but they can get annoying and repetitive 
 after a while. And as always the EA soundtracks always suck. But I like the voice acting with the 
 trainers and their snappy little one-liners. Also what is cooler than hearing you crack someones 
 skull?
  
  Gameplay is pretty good but it took me a while to get use to the controls. It takes a little long 
 for your player to punch and it's kind of weird to punch with the right stick but you just have 
 to get used to it. What I didn't like was that you couldn't punch where you wanted it to when you 
 used the training dummy or punching bag.
  
  The game does get a little repetitive but it's all good since it's a fun game to play. I don't 
 really got people to play with and I don't have Xbox Live yet so there's not much lasting appeal 
 to me besides the career mode. All in all it's a great game and has the best graphics I have ever 
 seen. Get it now! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jjj13
Rating: 9.7
Date: Apr 17, 2006 11:54 am PT
Review:  First off I want to say that I don't even like boxing. That goes to show you how good this game 
 is. Career mode is decent. Although it is repetitive it is pretty good. Play now mode will keep 
 you going if you get bored. The Live mode is very fun. The pace is faster than in-game but it makes 
 it more fun. One match is around 5 min. ESPN classic is not my thing. It is just something to add 
 to the short game. Easy difficulty is too easy medium is too hard. Too bad there are no sliders. 
 If you have a 360 try the demo first. I did and I liked it. It is easy to get gamerpoints on it 
 so why not rent? I hope you enjoyed this review! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ewmgreendawg
Rating: 8.3
Date: Apr 16, 2006 2:24 pm PT
Review:  Fight Night Round three is the first of the fight night games that I've rented and played extensivley 
 and i must say I'm impressed. 
  
  Graphics: very nice shading, character model's, blood, sweat, all look amazing. very detailed. 
 
  
  Gameplay: addictive. Fight night round 3 is actually quite skill based, involving lots of counters 
 and learing your punch techniques. If your going up against a button-masher, they don't stand a 
 chance. 
  
  Replay value: medium to high. high if you have xbox live. FNR3 has a few different play modes. 
 EA classic and and Career will probably take up most of your playing time until you play online. 
 The career mode gets a little repetitive but the fights get increasingly difficult.
  
  Sound: grunting, cheering, the same 5 pop songs playing over and over again..... ehhhhh. play your 
 own music but the sound effects are nice.
  
  I'd say rent fight night for 5-7 days unless your a real boxing or sports fan. its a fun game that 
 anyone who enjoys skill based games will like. solid all around with room for expansion. 
  
  I give it an 8.4 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RunningMansKid
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 22, 2006 7:22 pm PT
Review:  This is truly an awesome game. I love how this game portrays the brutality and knowledge needed 
 to participate in boxing. This game has something going for it, and that is the incredible depth 
 in customization and fighting. I really could say that all fighting games that have just recently 
 been released don't have a single thing against it. The interfaces for career mode can be confusing 
 at times, and the new Flash KO punch could be a bit tweaked. There is no way that Erik Morales 
 can knock out Muhammad Ali in the 1st round, but apparently a video game can portray this. Using 
 the total punch control is still a bit off, so I still use the buttons, but there is still some 
 reason to use it. The sound of the punches going across your buddy's virtual face is just great. 
 The facial reactions and the bodily movements make you want to jump for joy after a knockout. The 
 sound of the cut man is awesome as well. If you are looking for the best fighting game out for the 
 360, or any system for that matter, I'd look no further than Fight Night. There is more depth than 
 Dead or Alive as well. Excellent game, and if there was any other companies making boxing games, 
 there is still no way they could contest. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: B-Woof43
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 14, 2006 6:03 am PT
Review:  This is the best boxing game i have ever played. The graphics are one of the best there isnt much 
 you can do excepted to make a boxer and beat the mess out of every one in your path but thats alot 
 of fun to me. the online is awsome thats for shore you can talk trash and beat some one up at the 
 same time. I like the liften wieghts and all that its pretty cool. This is one of the best EA Games 
 out thats for shore next to Madden i think any way. But nothin is going to beat madden that old 
 guy has got it down. any one that gave it less than a 9.0 has lost it thats about all i have to 
 say about this boxing game there really isnt much to say. O yea one thing i dont like is that they 
 dont ever give you like a rank when you play it online that sucks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brotenks
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 13, 2006 5:37 pm PT
Review:  this is the third installment of the fight night series and is without a doubt the greatest of 
 the series and easily the greatest boxing game ever (to my knowledge of boxing games which isnt 
 very good) . With great graphics, sound effects, modes and a good online mode to keep you going.
 
  Having being a complete virgin to the fight night series (and all boxing games) i have no idea 
 how its prequels compare to this game, but by the looks of this game they were not as good.
  The best part of this game (to me) is definetley the career mode, you can start by either creating 
 your own boxer or choose a legend to rebuild, you also choose who to fight against giving you more 
 control of your character. starting as a featherweight you work up to higher ranks and build up 
 your popularity until you can fight the champ of your devision, even though when you win the title 
 you never defend it! You can customise your boxer wiith diferent moves and cloths to box in in 
 order to increase you skill. There are also 3 training games to increase your boxers strength, stamina, 
 endurance and many other attributes.
  The controls are a bit tough to get to grips with but once you do you'll be knocking out boxer; s 
 like you got no money and the rent is due! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cheerio2
Rating: 9.8
Date: Apr 13, 2006 5:27 pm PT
Review:  There is a lot to say about this, one thing is Graphics this is one my Best looking games that 
 I have ever played and if you Have an HDTV you will Satisfied to the MAX! Another thing is the 
 Gameplay, Wow weezy this kinda of Gameplay reminds me of WWF No Mercy on the N64 where you can 
 just push a little on the joy stick and giv the amount of Pressure on the punches or hold more 
 back and front like a real life swing and make it harder every time, realism is superb how you 
 can tell if your Character is Tired or hurt.
  
  in Conclusion this gme is a good game to play with another friend or Via Xbox Live since you can 
 hear them suffer lol. And the Details on the Creat a Champ is so good lots of stuff you can do 
 to make them look like you or you 
  Cheerio2 
::::::

::::::
UserName: felixk
Rating: 8.4
Date: Apr 13, 2006 5:25 am PT
Review:  This game is fun! What's not fun is having to "train" my boxer with BORING repetitive training 
 games. When will the development team realize that we don't want to sit there and train the boxer.. 
 I don't like to go to the gym in real life... why would I like to do it in a game? There is an auto-training 
 option, but it will take forever to max out your boxer's ratings. 
  
  If you don't mind the training games then you'll love this game. The graphics are terrific. The 
 replays of knockdown punches are so cool that sometimes you cringe from the pain inflicted by the 
 punch.
  
  Don't forget the great multiplayer action! When your done fighting it out with the AI you always 
 have real people. This feature alone was worth the purchase.
  
  Overall Fight Night Round 3 is a great game, and a great addition to your collection even if your 
 not a boxing fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ElitesIgnorance
Rating: 8.7
Date: Apr 11, 2006 7:54 pm PT
Review:  I have played this game for two days, and I think its a game you should only dare to buy. Renting 
 will make great effort, but buying it is worthless. 
  
  The graphics are just gorgeous, and I personally think its the greatest fighting game for graphics 
 to date. There are some glitches in the face movement in the game though. Sometimes I punch my 
 opponent's face and my glove will go right through it as if I was a ghost.
  
  The gameplay is really easy to get use to. Personally, the game gave me a blister on my right thumb 
 because of the joystick on the 360. You punch with your joystick, but its commonsense where to 
 hit with it your opponent with the joystick. 
  
  The replay value will get you for a good month, but after that, it's all over with. 
  
  With 
 games like Elder Scrolls IV: OBLIVION and CALL OF DUTY 2, you really need to buy them because they 
 are Xbox 360 material. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thefuse1032
Rating: 8.9
Date: Apr 11, 2006 7:54 pm PT
Review:  When i first started playing the game, the controls were a little confusing, but they let you choose 
 from all sorts of control settings. After a couple of hours well played, i began getting the hang 
 of things and enjoying it more and more. Since then iv been playing it for at least a couple of 
 hours everyday, and i don't like that much boxing games (except "Mike Tyson's punch out" for NES) 
 but this shows it up with great detail. The graphics i thought on a HDTV was great and showed how 
 the gaming industry's are really moving up to in todays society. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LatinG187
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 12, 2006 4:56 am PT
Review:  
  
  Gameplay: 9/10
  If you've played any of the previous Fight Night games then you will be very familar with the basic 
 controls. Like previous versions, Fight Night uses the right analog stick to throw punches. This year 
 however, EA Chicago has added new "Impact Punches" including the haymaker that was in Fight Night 
 Round 2 as well as the new Stun KO and Flash KO. All three punches are pretty difficult to connect 
 since it takes longer to throw these punches and can be easily defended. The best time to throw 
 one of these punches is after you parry your opponet's punch. With these implemented into Fight 
 Night, it brigns that feeling that the fight can all of a sudden change with just one punch. It's 
 happened to me while I was fighting Benard Hopkins. I was dominating the fight for the first 4 rounds 
 but then in the 5th we caught me with a big Stun punch and knocked me down which totally changed 
 the fight.
  
  Also new to Fight Night is a lot more fighter styles. Before, all you had was Right or Left, Power 
 or Speed but now you can choose from several different styles like the  
 and boxing stlyes such as Judge Jab, Hookmaster, Lethal Uppercut, Sinister Cross, Balanced, Fast and 
 now you can choose between blocking styles like Philly Shell, Cross or Balanced. There are just so 
 many different combinations that make each fighter unique.
  
  Career Mode: 8/10
  Depending on who you ask, the career mode this year in FN either hit or miss. In my opinion, they 
 did a good job, could have been a lot better but still very fun to play. There is no rankings system 
 this time around, but a popularity meter which may not be as good as a Rankings system would've 
 been, but it's not that bad. You start as an Amatuer and fight your way up to the Title fight and 
 if you win that you turn pro and the guy you beat becomes your rival and you will run into him 
 a few more times throughout your career. Also once you create a pretty heated rivalry, before your 
 fight with him, it will go to a cut scene showing you two at a press conference or weigh-in and 
 your rival will sucker punch you sending into a first person mini-game where you gotta block his 
 punches. Once you become popular enough you can compete in a sponsered event ranging from Under 
 Armour, Burger King to being on the ESPN 2 undercard and eventually appearing in the Main Event 
 for a ESPN PPV.
  
  There are a couple of things that kinda bring the career mode down. Rivalries are nicely done but 
 they are forced on you. I woulda liked to create a rivalry with a boxer of my choice. Also the entrances 
 still are not right, plus there is no option to change your entrance music, however the music thing 
 isn't as bad as it was in the beginning because now I just listen to my own music while I'm playing 
 the game.
  
  Sound: 8.2/10
  Sound in Fight Night is tight, not the most realistic sound when you hear the slo-mo replays of 
 a knockdown but apart from that, it's pretty realistic as far as everything else. I love the music 
 in the game, it really fits this type of game and they did put more songs this year but still it's 
 not enough and the songs can become annoying after the 100th time hearing 'em, but like with every 
 360 game, you can always listen to your own music. The announcer does a great job bringing realism 
 to the game and making some cool comments about each fighter.
  
  Graphics: 10/10
  What else can I say about the graphics that haven't already been said. By far one of the best looking 
 if not the best looking 360 game out there so far. The detail in the boxers in amazing, these guys 
 look just like there real-life counterparts. Also with the very detailed Create-A-Boxer mode, you 
 can create a guy to look just like you. I created myself and it looks almost exactly like me, might 
 have been able to get it even more accurate if I woulda spent some more time. Also you can create 
 some real-life boxers not in the game and get them to look very accurate. I got very detailed boxers 
 of Julio Ceasar Chavez, Fernando Vargas, Shane Mosley and Floyd Mayweather. 
  
  Online: 8.8/10
  There is nothing real special with Fight Night's online play but it still is 
 a ton of fun to fight against other guys, you can do a quick ranked or unranked match or custom 
 ranked/unranked fight. There are lobbies for beginners and veterans, a lobby for analog only fighters 
 and a lobby to not only fight but to talk about real boxing. And you can create your own. Overall 
 the online experience is a lot of fun and adds quite a bit to the replay value of FN.
  
  Achievments: 5/10
  These will be some of the easiest achievements you will get. I got them all 
 in less than a day on Hard, but you can also get these on Medium or Easy difficulty. You just basically 
 go through career mode and you should have all 8 achievements by the time you reach your 40th fight. To 
 me, this is a huge let down as I was hoping for a lot more in this area but for "gamerscore whores" 
 this is a great game for a quick 1000 points.
  
  Overall: 9/10
  Fight Night Round 3 is an amazing game that any boxing fan must purchase. Even if you're not a big 
 boxing fan, I still think you should at least give it a rent because you will have a lot of fun 
 playing this game. Solid gameplay, Awesome graphics, Great sound and a fun career mode makes for a 
 great gaming experience.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: nandito3555
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 11, 2006 9:48 am PT
Review:  This is a phenomenal game on previous consoles ( xbox, GC, PS2) and a even better game on the x360. 
 I really enjoyed a lot playing this game.
  
  GAMEPLAY- Great gameplay. The same formula that mada FNR2 a great game.
  
  GRAPHICS- The best 
 damn graphics I ever seen. A visual art, and a visual showcase for the x360.
  
  SOUND- Great, the punches and the screams and all the stuff in box sounds like the real thing.
 
  
  VALUE- Not so good, but I don't care fighting with the same guys and the same arenas over and over 
 again.
  
  A must buy for a x360 owner, and a reason to buy one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DryvBy27
Rating: 8.1
Date: Apr 11, 2006 6:17 am PT
Review:  Good Idea:
  Graphics, physics, character models and textures.
  Best boxing game on any consoles. Of course, it can't touch Punch Out!! for the NES.
  Sound 
 are really good (in some areas) .
  
  Bad Idea:
  Needs more options for the career and more feel for your character.
  Sounds kind of lag at 
 times with the commentary.
  A few clipping and animation glitches.
  
  Overall:
  Terrific looking and playing game and something you'll hope the other Xbox360 games take advantage 
 of by using high graphics, good sounds, and making everything look photo realistic. Just get this 
 game tonight; then get yer face beat by me! 
  
  ---------------------------------------
  
  I hate EA Sports because I don't like how EA is trying to be "The Gaming Company". I hated 
 the new Madden, like every Madden since 2002. I hate NBA Live because it's just cheaply made and 
 overpriced. But Fight Night is different. Fight Night Round 3 actually makes up for the horrible 
 EA games I've played on the 360 thus far.
  
  The career mode isn't deep at all but it's good. It's a really new way to create a boxer and with 
 the texturing and high poly models, the game just holds up to be the most beautiful games on the 
 Xbox360 right now. The sounds are great, although the commentary is a big lagged and repetitive. 
 The total control is easy to master and makes for a good boxing match instead of a boxing button 
 mash. I just got this tonight and it's just un-freakin-belieable. The demo serves no purpose to 
 how good the game actually is. Fights do seem to get a little repetitive but...
  
  ... the multi player is, of course, great! Pounding your best friend in the head in real life is 
 no measure to how fun it is to do it without the cops showing up for assault. It's an all around 
 terrific boxing game. Pick this up tonight! And then try to beat "Dynamite" online [DryvBy84 - 
 Live ID]
  
  Oh, also, if you're having a hard time getting those darn achievements, here's a hint. Set the 
 game on easy and then button-mash your power attack. You usually win in the first round. Make sure 
 to power attack the stomach a lot too with power attacks. The AI forgets to block that area a lot.
 
  
  ---------------------------------------
  
  Violence:
  You punch people to win. You punch them until you break their nose, they bleed too much, or tumble. 
 Lots of it.
  
  Sexuality:
  Some realistic girls in skimpy clothing. It's boxing.
  
  Language:
  I think the songs have minor words in them.
  
  Substance Use:
  None. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spcdragon
Rating: 7.4
Date: Apr 9, 2006 7:34 am PT
Review:  Fight Night Round 3 is good game if you are a fan of boxing. Or if you want a game for you and 
 your friends hang out and play. But beyond that its just a the same old game. With good graphics 
 yes the the game looks great. Its bigest problem is that its get old really fast. Its does not 
 take to long to get through the game. The mini games for traning are not done that well. Overall 
 the game is good but not great its is worth a rental because it is good game to play with freinds 
 while hanging out plus you can finish the game in a rental time period. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: axes03
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 8, 2006 10:49 am PT
Review:  wow i cant believe im playing a "BOXING" game. cant believe i spent near 60 bucks for a "BOXING" 
 game. yup u probably guessed it by now that im not a boxing fan, and probably never will be. BUT 
 dude THIS GAME IS THAT GOOD. it doesnt matter if you have a hdtv or not (i dont, but it sure is 
 better on it) THE GAME LOOKS AMAZING. if i hadnt played GRAW before this this wouldve been the 
 best game (graphicly) EVER. but that doesnt mean the gameplay lacks any qualities. im hooked on 
 the "total punch control" thing they have. if fighting games are button mashers this is a "STICK" 
 masher. reallly amazing controls. the sounf is pretty awesome too, especially when you get those 
 KOs. the career mode is pretty decent with a good create a fighter, BUT it couldve been better. still 
 itll hook you in for hours.
  I HAVE NEVER played a fight night game before and i not a fan of boxing, and even im imperssed. 
 this is an amazing acievement from EA. HIGHLY RECOMENDED. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: theace18
Rating: 9.7
Date: Apr 7, 2006 9:20 am PT
Review:  All I have to say is "Wow". 
  
  I am a huge fan of the Fight Night boxing franchise from EA Sports. I must have played Fight Night 
 Round 2 until I got blisters on my thumbs. Fight Night Round 3 was not my first game for the XBOX 
 360. I wanted to actually see it and play it before I made the purchase. Cause honestly, how different 
 can it be? 
  
  So I went down to the local Circuit City and saw two kids playing it. I had to do a triple take. 
 I could not believe how awesome the graphics are! I thought a boxing match was going on TV. The 
 player models have SO MUCH detail. You can see their body hair, the sweat coming of their bodies. 
 If they have longer hair, you can see it move around. My favorite is the knock out punch, the whole 
 camera slows down and shows the impact your fists are making. You get to see all the sweat fly 
 off the other player, and watch their skin ripple and watch their body move where you gave them 
 the big blow. Unbelievable!
  
  Finally the kids left, and my son and I got to try it out first hand. I was amazed. The controls 
 were just as tight as the last iteration. That was a definately plus. At first I didn't like the 
 fact that there was no more health bar in the HUD. But after playing a few rounds, I loved it. 
 You are no longer watching your life meter, you now just plain concentrate on the fight itself. 
 You can still tell how your player is doing. If he is tired, he looks tired and moves slow. If 
 he's beat up, he'll have cuts and a swolen face.
  
  The sound on this game is totally awesome. From the sound of your gloves hitting your opponent, 
 to hearing you face fall onto the ring floor with a big THUD! The music is also good too. I'm not 
 a big fan of Hip Hop, but I really liked the soundtrack. It definately added to the game.
  
  So I finally bought it. Immediately when I got home, I opened the game and slapped it in my 
 XBOX 360. First thing I wanted to do? Create a boxer. In every sports game, I always at least create 
 myself. Helps me really get into the game. There are SO MANY different variables you can tweak 
 to make your boxers face look very close to yours. I have only a few gripes about Create a Boxer 
 though. Initally you don't get much of a choce when it comes to apparel. You only have a few to 
 choose from, from each article. Then as you progress in the game, you can unlock new appreal that 
 will give you bonuses to your stats. While that is fine and dandy, I do wish you could customize 
 your apparel the way you wanted, instead of just picking from a few selections. When you enter 
 the ring with your newly created boxer, you have an entrance song. Its the first song that you 
 hear when you first start the game up. Why can't I change that song? What if I don't like that 
 song, and what to change it to something else? You can't even unlock new songs. 
  
  Aside from the two minor flaws, Fight NIght Round 3 is awesome. IMHO, definately the best sports 
 game out there at this time. I can't put this game down. When I go home, I want to play this game 
 SO BAD. Fight Night Round 3 should be a definate buy for ANY XBOX 360. You definately will not 
 be dissapointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sharpshooter226
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 6, 2006 6:44 pm PT
Review:  Fight night round 3 is the third instalment to the EA boxing series the career mode lets you rise 
 up and get the championship the multiplayer lets you reenact epic battles with your friends the 
 visuals in this game are stunning espically on HD tv's this game has the best visuals of any game 
 on the 360 so far i got this game and i have been hooked ever since if you have a 360 and like 
 boxing then with out a doubt pick this game up even if you arent a boxing fan but love fighting 
 games you to should pick this one up
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: GhostAssassin_1
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 6, 2006 9:49 am PT
Review:  first of all, this game looks so realistic, you almost feel like your a part of the fight. because 
 of the freedom you get using analog control, the game offers a lot of differentiation between strategies. 
 No two fights will ever look the same. 
  
  The graphics are amazing, especially when it goes into slow motion to see there faces jiggle and 
 spit a bit of blood "Rocky style." Each fighter handles differently and looks very lifelike. The 
 character editor is an awsome feature aswell, allowing you to mold your characters appearance and 
 assign fighting styles and stats. For anyone who enjoys boxing games, this one is definately the 
 best one for its controls and its incredible animations and graphics. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rangers1690
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 5, 2006 9:30 am PT
Review:  fight night 1 and 2 were dope but this game is the bomb. i played this from 10 am to 3am the day 
 i got it and now after like 2 weeks i still ain't bored. captures boxing extremely well except 
 for the parrying system - get that bulls**t outta here. graphically it is unmatched and the game 
 play brings it to a new level. if it wasn't for the bulls**t career mode this would have gotten 
 a 10. you cant possibly get bored playing this cause you can never get bored beating the **** outta 
 someone. if you don't already have this go get it, it ko's the rest of the 360 games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: theslayer
Rating: 5.8
Date: Apr 4, 2006 8:04 pm PT
Review:  AHHHH great to play at Best Buy or Gamestop, but once you have played the demo in the store you 
 really do not have any reason to buy it. The game looks great and plays well but it gets boring 
 fast. The whole draw to the game is the ooohhhhsss and awwwws when you are pummeling your opponent. 
 Once you beat on the other guy for awhile you are left wanting more. This is a great game to rent 
 when you have the guys over and want to beat each other up. Also a great game to show off what 
 the 360 is capable of. Dont make the same mistake that I did and buy it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dillon_o4
Rating: 8.2
Date: Apr 4, 2006 6:08 pm PT
Review:  Well for starters I had and played FNR2 alot. There aren't to many changes from that in the gameplay. 
 Besides the new impact punches, which sound cool and are in ways but after awhile these punches 
 get repetative and frustrating. They are very hard to land but they are landable. The only gripe 
 i got with it is i was playin earlier today and It was me (created player) vs. ALI 1st round ding 
 ding ding we come out i did the flash KO punch hit him, then i did one haymaker and he hit the 
 canvas, i just knocked ALI out in 2 punches wow hard, not really this is capable with any guy at 
 anytime. Other than that the gameplay is good. They slowed down the gameplay a bit from FNR2 but 
 it makes it more realistic. The graphics are really amazing. The career mode doesn't feel like 
 anything out of the ordinary. Well there isn't really that much wrong with it, I don't even know 
 what they should of done to make it better, but it just feels like its missing something. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mmjm
Rating: 8.9
Date: Apr 4, 2006 3:07 pm PT
Review:  A great boxing game that will keep you entertained for hours. Do not pass this game up.
  
  FN3 is arguably one the best boxing game ever made. A great game does not rely on just great graphics 
 alone. No not at all, you see even though the ranking system is based on the popularity line as 
 you progress. The more wins, the higher the popularity, you get the idea. What does make this game 
 fabulous is the draw dropping visuals of a key hit in slow motion, hey the sound track is not bad 
 either.
  
  The character models are absolutely second to none from the aspect of clarity and visuals, as mentioned 
 before, the slow motion visuals are just incredible. What really makes this game stand out for 
 me though besides the above mentioned points is the clarity of the crowd. It is the best looking 
 crowd interaction I have ever seen in any game. In my opinion it is one thing to have the characters, 
 ring etc be outstanding, it is another when the crowd looks so crisp.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: BlackBeauty4211
Rating: 8.7
Date: Apr 3, 2006 4:30 pm PT
Review:  this isnt a bad game way to easy for me though i didnt have a challenge!! I beat this game in 2 
 days 3 days max and thats playing after school and going to the gym! way to easy! but the graphics 
 and fight simulation was amazing! the graphics are excellent and the story behind the boxer is 
 great! i believe this is a must have game takes tention off of yourself when your stressed! i love 
 this game for a fighting game! but i do have a question not on this game but on games so please 
 send me a message!!! would greatly appreciate it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chestnutz
Rating: 8.4
Date: Apr 3, 2006 1:27 pm PT
Review:  Once you get the hang of how to punch and control your guy, the game is alot of fun. The hardest 
 part about the training is punching that dummie in certain sequences, because using the analog 
 stick to punch is not so easy. When your fighting dudes, you've got to create a certain style. 
 If that style ain't working, you need to switch your **** up and do something else different. Usually 
 the style you roll with though is good enough to knock your opponent out. After you've beaten the 
 game, the game gets boring really fast. Im glad I rented it. RENT IT! Unless you absolutely love 
 XBOX LIVE! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scuffdog_65
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 2, 2006 7:56 pm PT
Review:  WOW! This game is amazing! Even though its boxing, this game is very good. Gameplay is solid and 
 very fun. it takes a while to get used to but after a while its fairly easy. Graphics are just 
 incredible along with the sound. the knockout scene is very entertaining. when someone is knocked 
 down the screen goes into slow motion and it shows blood and spit flying out. its great! This game 
 is definitely worth buying. Even if you arent a boxing fan ( which im not. I actually hate watching 
 it.) this game is fun. Its definitely worth the value. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: playboye69
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 2, 2006 3:56 pm PT
Review:  Boxing video games will never be the same after this, just unbelievable, what more can you do to 
 make a better game? The graphics are a compliment to the power of the Xbox 360. I first got the 
 PS2 version and it is easy to tell which one they put the most work in to..... the Xbox 360 version 
 of course! No health bars because you can tell when your opponent is ready to go, this game is 
 just sick, you feel like you are there in the ring, I can't wait until Round 4 comes out !! Joe 
 Calzaghe should be in the next game, he demolished Super Middleweight kingpin Jeff Lacy in s Super 
 Middleweight title unification to cement his legacy as an undefeated and greatest Super Middleweight 
 of all time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lukewind
Rating: 8.6
Date: Apr 2, 2006 10:15 am PT
Review:  Fight Night had limited appeal to me at first since I have never been a big fan of boxing games 
 and I think that I did not like them because none of them were very realistic. Fight Night has 
 solved that problem with cinema quality visuals and amazing character models. Just looking at the 
 game will leave you in awe as the sweat sheens of your boxer when smaked across the face.
  
  The visuals speak for themsleves but how does the gameplay hold up? Well I will just say this 
 about gameplay it's alot of fun, It is by no means perfect but it gets the job done. The game has 
 a few games modes such as carreer and espn classic mode which is alot of fun reliving old moments 
 from the sport and of course it has it's online component which runs really smooth and at least 
 with my expierience without any lag.
  
  The only things that bug me is that the training mini games are really lame and boring to play. 
 The game allows you to skip the mini games but you only get half the workout benefit to your character 
 which will catch up top you later on in your career. 
  
  FNR3 is a great game and deserves a buy if you are really into boxing, if not its a good enough 
 game to deserve a rent. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bartyballa
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 2, 2006 8:09 am PT
Review:  This game is great and very addictive. online is also great. Career mode is fun too, as well as 
 classic mode. Thre iusnt to much features, but it still is a really great game. One thing i didnt 
 like is how in the espn classic, the fights are exactly like a reg. fight. The totol punch control 
 is good with many different type of punches. Just like in round 2 there is the thing were u can 
 fix ur fighters face up.
  ONline is very fun. It tracks ur record, level and much more. Its definently highly addictive. What 
 else can i say about this game its addictive, fun, really good.
  
  For u boxing fans, this is the game to get. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lil_ky
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 1, 2006 9:49 pm PT
Review:  Fight Night Round 3 for the 360 was published by EA and wow thank you EA for this soul sucking 
 game wow when u get this game i suggest u dump ur girlfriend/boyfriend cause ur gunna love it i 
 mean i cant point out a bad point in it besides me winning a fight and getting 67 haymakers to 
 the head and me doing nuthing to the guy yeah if u get a tough guy in this game u should beat it 
 with breeze i havent tried it online yet but its prolly b-e-a-utiful the graphics are amazing the 
 total control stick is hard at first but once u get used to it ur thumb is going to be brused ur 
 gunna be playing it so much mine was 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SuperRacerC91
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 25, 2006 12:27 pm PT
Review:  This game is absolutely stunning and great to play. The gameplay is a ton of fun and the graphics 
 are movie quality. Without a HUD, this game really come to life in a whole new way. LIVE play is 
 great with real record kepping and champions belts on the line sometimes. You can make your own 
 character which is a ton of fun to toy with because of the simplicity of it and the options. The 
 career is fun too giving you the option to start with nothing and build your empire from the ground 
 up. This game is a must own or at least a rental, simp [ly because I think it is the best looking 
 game that I've ever played. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Crunchy12489
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 31, 2006 4:14 pm PT
Review:  Fight Night Round 3 for XBOX 360 Review.
  
  I'm here to tell you that this is the best boxing game up to date. I mean, what's there more to 
 say? Oh believe me, there's plenty to say.. thats positive!
  
  Let me say that the graphics are absolutely stunning. The swet, blood, and animations were rendered 
 marvelously. The sound is amazing as well. Hearing the leather hit your opponent's face, smacking 
 him with a large haymaker that stuns him. I mean, it really puts you right in the ring with these 
 guys.
  
  The gameplay is very smooth, but the frames are just a tad bit low. But that's not a major issue, 
 hell, it's not even a minor issue. I think the speed in the game is reallistic because Fight Night 
 2004 and Round 2 are just fast paced arcade beat-em-ups.
  
  [ Good Features ]
  
  Stun Punch (1st person daze mode) , One Punch Knockouts (not frequently) , More defensive styles, 
 Customize your fighter with more than 7 styles of fighting, Create-a-Boxer is brilliant, Characters 
 are statistically categorized well, Adrenaline boosts after haymakers (go in for the kill) , and 
 last but not least ITS VERY VERY ADDICTIVE. CAREER MODE IS FUN.
  
  [ Some bad things ]
  
  James Toney (heavyweight) swings pretty slow, but in real life he swings Calvin Brock fast. 
 You can be pounding on someone hit after hit, hook after hook, jab after jab, and they will throw 
 in a haymaker that will put you in "slow" mode. This is the only thing that makes me mad when I 
 play this game. I mean, I understand that one punch can change the fight, but this is ridiculous. 
 Everyone knows that if someone is getting pummeled in a match, their swing won't even be hard enough 
 to even make a boxer stagger. Well, they truely mean that "One Punch Can Determine The Fight."
 
  
  But hey, it's not that bad once you get used to the game. You won't come across this too often 
 when you get the feeling of the game. I was kind of disappointed when they took out Rocky Marciano, 
 Floyd Mayweather, Sonny Liston, and Lennox Lewis. They could have put in Mike Tyson, but I don't 
 think EA Sports signed a deal with him to get his approval.
  
  [ Bottom Line ]
  
  If you like fighting and you want something thats almost as close as a real simulation in a ring, 
 this is the game for you! No doubt, I would buy it. If you just rent this game, you made a mistake 
 my friend. I got this game for Madden 06. Horrible game. Anyways, EA Sports didn't mess up on this 
 title! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jets06ya
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 31, 2006 3:47 pm PT
Review:  FNR3 pulled me away from oblivion, its that good, last night i played for hours and hours. It's 
 just addicting, the graphics are brilliant, 3d crowds and in depth player models really help, playing 
 at madison square garden is exilirating, the total punch controll is great aswell, the sound is 
 good, the announcing is some of the best in sports game out there, they do a good job of telling 
 you who is winning and and whats happening, since there is no health bar, im not a boxing fan and 
 the only boxing game i owned before this was ready to rumble boxing, i really reccomend this to 
 any 360 owner, and if your a boxing fan, run to the stores right now. 8.9/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: peterles
Rating: 7.7
Date: Mar 31, 2006 12:10 pm PT
Review:  i played this game solely for gamerpoints. i had fun playing it, but it got pretty repetitive. 
 me and my roommate unlocked all the gamerpoints. we got about half way through then put it on easy. 
 we didnt have the patience to learn all of the suttleties of the game, we didnt see a pot of gold 
 at the end of that rainbow. but the game looked really good. i dont have an hdtv, or the component 
 cables, but it still looked good. i still perfer playing super punch out. so thats that. the game 
 is pretty fun, and if you are wiling to put in alot of time to learn the exactness and strategy 
 of blocking and countering, or whatever. surely there is alot of game to be played here. not like 
 other games that are simple and easy to learn, and offer little lasting power. surely this game 
 will be good enough until it is made obsolite when next years installment comes along, and ea takes 
 another 60 of yours and mine dollars 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SilentStorm54
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 30, 2006 6:42 pm PT
Review:  Fight Night Round 3 is a very good game. There are a few flaws as in every game, but its masked 
 easily by the superior gameplay. I haven't explored this game as much as I would like to because 
 I've only played it at a friends house, but I have 3 to 4 hours clocked in so im pretty familiar 
 with it.
  
  Some people have been crying about the gameplay in Fight Night Round 3, "It's too slow" "The boxing 
 styles are stupid" and even "Why is it so hard to get up after being knocked down". All these complaints 
 are ridiculous. The gameplay is far better than any Fight Night game to date. The punching speed 
 is more realistic, power punchers cant just unload a plethora of punches as say a Muhammad Ali. 
 The fast punchers are done justice, the only difference is the punchers stamina in throwing the 
 punches, which to me is great. Fights are more realistic and take more of a gladiators approach, 
 meaning long fights, and colliding whits.
  
  A negative in this game, is the Flash KO. I understand the whole "ONE PUNCH CAN CHANGE A FIGHT" 
 thing but I think thats just a little outrageous. For instances, I was in round 7 of a good fight 
 between a friend, it was Power (me) versus Speed (Him) I had the upperhand and was gaining momentum, 
 when he unleashed that easily executed Flash KO punch. He knocked me down but I got back up to 
 eventually win the fight, but the point is he was in no position to even think consider knocking 
 me out but that new punch addition allowed him to.
  
  The ESPN CLASSICS are a nice interesting touch. They do get a little repetitive when going back 
 through them fighting with the opposite player, but if your a boxing fan you enjoy it for the most 
 part. I still haven't unlocked that last match either. Also, the fight in black in white was very 
 nice. I thought it would be boring because of the color but it was surprisingly very fun and added 
 to the appeal of the fight.
  
  I didn't get a chance to explore the career mode, but chances are it basically the same as Fight 
 Night Round 2, with minor improvements. But i did see the option to go back through a professional 
 boxers career and make it the way you wanted to or to the best of your abilities, that seem to 
 be a nice touch, although I didn't go through it.
  
  The A. I. on the game is outrageously easy, even on hard. I mean, I just uppercutted my way through 
 the ESPN CLASSICS, in no time. That seems to be another negative to the game, depending on your 
 skill level and your gaming mentality. I was highly disappointed how effortless it was, I'd expect 
 the career mode to be easy, because you are playing so many games, but the CLASSICS, COME ON!
 
  
  All in all a very solid game. Nice gameplay mechanics, and for the most part gameplay feature, 
 i. e. styles and game speed., I'ts a must for any serious game collector. I recommend this to every. 
 Don't rent it if you think you just going to play it for the allotted time by the dealer, you'll 
 probably end up paying retail price, when u finally turn it back in. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jazmacfaz99
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 29, 2006 5:15 pm PT
Review:  Fight night round 3 is the third title in Electronic Arts esteemed fight night seriese. The game 
 has been in my possesion for a month now so heres my full review... 
  
  First and foremost let me comment on the graphics. The detail on the boxers face the blod the sweat 
 the ripples when you have received a heavy haymaker top even those of project gotham racing 3. 
 The mind blowing amount of detail however is soon forgotten when you are being beaten to a bloody 
 pulp. Why you ask? Total punch control. I for one personally hate thsi scheme. Combos are damn 
 near impossible and you may even end up buying a new joypad after mercilessly breaking the analouge 
 sticks off in your fury. But luckily EA also put in a much easier button method of fighting which 
 actually suits the game rather well. 
  
  But when you do make your controll choice you will find that this game has a vast amount of gameplay 
 at your disposal. The career mode is not all that long but you will doubtlessly continue for a 
 good 5 hours after it is completed. 
  
  Overall this game has a fighting chance of making it into the stable of the few great 360 game 
 out at the moment. Good one EA. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xXHackettXx
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 29, 2006 1:46 pm PT
Review:  Fight Night Round 3 has to be the greatest boxing game ever made! This is by far the first true 
 next gen game for the Xbox 360. It has amazing graphics, addicting game play, excellent online, 
 and an amazing career mode. This is a great game to show off what your 360 can do, and a great 
 game to play with friends. EA has really worked on making it a more realistic boxing games limiting 
 the big haymaker punches, by making them easier to counter, but if they connect can really change 
 the fight. The career mode is great with a lot of verity like fights during the way ins, training 
 before matches, and different boxing matches like pay per view, with many belts to win. This game 
 is a true knock out and a must have for any Xbox 360 owner. And if youre still not sure about 
 it, go and download the free demo on Xbox Live, and see for yourself. 
  
  P. S This is the same review I did on my first acount. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BWSTSW2K
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 3, 2006 2:55 pm PT
Review:  FN3 is the best boxing game ever made, and easily one of the best all-around fighters you'll see 
 for a long time. What backs this up more than anything isnt the jaw dropping next generation visuals, 
 or the superb online playability (although those two features alone would give this game a super 
 high rating) , but it is the innovative gameplay. 
  
  The designers of FN3 have stripped away the life meters, and in their place, the visuals, audio 
 and emotional response of the fighters tell the story. If your boxer is hurt, you'll know it just 
 by the way he moves and looks. It is this next generation gameplay that truly is the most amazing 
 aspect of FN3, but as just mentioned, it is those sumptuous visuals that play a big part of their 
 own in bringing this concept to life.
  
  The character models are so realistic that you wont even have to squint to make them look like 
 real-life boxers. Individual beads of sweat can be seen forming and dripping, skin ripples realistically 
 when whacked, and when you see the close-up of your boxer's face, you can even see the skin wrinkle 
 as he is healed. Outside of what are easily the best character models ever seen, the stadiums and 
 arenas are also spectacularly rendered along with their 3D crowds. 
  
  In short, FN3 is a true masterpiece of art and technology fused together in one bold and complete 
 gaming package. You'll play it for hours at a time, venture online and box friend or foe, and perhaps 
 best of all, you'll come out of this experience knowing the true potential for the mighty Xbox 
 360, and the as yet untapped potential still to come.
  
  Overall Score:
  
  8.8/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Danthecritic
Rating: 6.9
Date: Mar 29, 2006 2:13 am PT
Review:  First off the graphics in this game are the best ive seen on the 360 so far well between this and 
 GRAW. Serious when playing this game for a little while it will trick your mind and have to remember 
 its a video game . Ok maybe a slight exageration. 
  
  The gameplay is the EXACT same as Round 2 same short gameplay easy fighters which only respond 
 to haymakers. There is little fuction with rivals at the weigh in which gets repetative FAST. Theres 
 also a first person dazyness to protect yourself and attack the other person this happens at every 
 weigh in, its a cool little part of the game but it happens randomly some times twotimes a fight 
 then it might only happen once in 15 fights but allways happens on the weigh in.
  
  The commentator is annoying saying the same things over and over next gen console needs to be able 
 to put more comments on it. the same crunch sound every knock down if the "OWWWW" factor for you 
 and mates at first then gets annoying how it happens evbery time. while im on it i dont recall 
 seeing a mouth gaurd how did they forget? Theres only rap on the soundtrack with teh best song 
 being from Obie Trice (used to be a big rap fan) wheres the music diversity?
  
  I think the value of this game is expensive as i also have Round 2 on my shelf which is pretty 
 much the same game. If you didnt play Round 2 i say pick this game up because in essence it is a 
 good game just lacks from the old one.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: fanmap
Rating: 5
Date: Mar 28, 2006 3:21 pm PT
Review:  Look guys, this game, and all the Fight Nights after it, need serious help and re-renovatiing. 
 Am i the only one on this forum who thinks Fight Night 2004 for PS2 was the best GAMEPLAY wise? 
 A jab felt like a jab, a straight felt like a straight, hook felt like a hook, uppakhut felt like 
 an uppakhut. Not so in Round 3. Im hitting guys with 6 hit hook, uppakhut combos, all to the head, 
 flush shots, and they've only lost as much energy as if i jabbed them instead. What the hell is 
 that all about? The speed of the punches are a joke too. I cant throw a solid bevy of punches without 
 being stopped automatically and then hit back, even when i know im supposed to be able to get my 
 combo off since i countered his punch and he was way off balance. This game plays almost exactly 
 like Round 2, which i didnt like one bit. I also dont appreciate the styles factor. Dont tell me 
 that just because i have a speed style boxer, im not going to take any serious energy off of you 
 if i hit with a valid uppakhut to your chin. Then when I try to use a balanced, or power style, 
 my boxer moves so friggin slow, that a combo is damn near impossible. There needs to be alot more 
 balance between all these styles, the discrepancy cant and should not be as great as they made 
 it. Another thing, these power punches are ridiculously stupid, and all they make for is abuse 
 by players in online mode, who dont know how to fight otherwise, and will keep swinging with their 
 KO haymaker until they connect and knock you out. Give me a friggin break. I like how it was in 
 2004, that a flash KO happened by chance, more so than being able to execute it at will. It makes 
 it very hard for a technician to take this game seriously, if im beating the pulp out of a guy 
 all fight with combos and counter punches, and hes down to 0 energy, and then comes with that one 
 punch you just were unlucky to block that one time, and knocks you out and wins. And speaking of 
 knockdowns, why the hell is it so gaddamned hard to get up? I can get up pretty easily on the first 
 knockdown, but if i get knocked down any more after that, i might as well forget about it and give 
 up, because its too much of a struggle to get back up. I dont know who's idea it was to make this 
 stupid alteration to the game. fight night 2004 i had about 4-5 knockdowns where it wasnt so difficult 
 to get up, and then after that, it started to get hard. They need to fix that. the clench system 
 is also BS, i dont like how a guy is down to nothing and is on the verge of being floored, and 
 then comes back to 1/3 energy after the fact. The clench should be used just to stop a full onslaught 
 flurry of punches if anything and nothing more. No energy should be recouped. One more thing: Make 
 the boxers look like the respective era they came from. Muhammad Ali and Sugar Ray Robinson werent 
 wearing shorts down to their knees back in their days. They had short shorts. You should also have 
 different versions of the same boxer, for example, a light, chiseled james Toney like when he fought 
 Roy Jones, and then the fat, flabbergutted James Toney that exists now and is currently in the 
 game. We also need fighters with some sort of real name and standing in the world of boxing to 
 be in the game instead of guys ive never, ever heard of like Juan Lazcado, Ricky Hatton, and Vincente 
 Escobedo. Who the hell are these dudes? Ive never heard of em. Put in Tyson, Golata, The Klitschco 
 Brothers, Prince Naseem Hamed, Floyd Mayweather, Zab Judah, Fernando Vargas, Julio Caesaer Chavez, 
 Lenox Lewis, Riddick Bowe, Buster Douglas, Shane Mosley, Joe Louis, George Foreman, and whatever 
 others. My final thoughts on this game: Increase the speed, make it play more like 2004, less Round 
 2, and just fix the stupid elements of the game. Im looking forward to a much improved round 4. 
 Thats all for now. Im out.1 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cyrusgd19
Rating: 8.6
Date: Mar 28, 2006 1:43 am PT
Review:  FNR 3 follows the trend of EA's 2006 sports lineup. They provide great online and offline multiplay 
 experiences. Even FIFA, a game that I bash, proves to be a fun experience when played with friends 
 on the same console. FNR 3 is the same.
  
  Single play:
  Yes, it does have a career mode, but it is shallow. If you have Xbox live, there is only reason 
 to play through this: achievements. The AI is uninteresting and the numerous bouts become redundant 
 very quickly. 
  
  Game play:
  The game play has been further polished as EA is continually leaving other boxing games in the 
 dust. This great foundation set in this game will make it very easy for EA Chicago to beef up their 
 career mode for FN's next iteration. 
  
  Graphics:
  I don't even need to really comment on FN's graphics. FNR 3 is a visual benchmark on the 360. GRAW 
 may do some things better, but FNR is a great example of why we have bought Xbox 360s. 
  
  Multiplay:
  Online and offline, FNR 3 provides an amazing experience -- just about as good as 
 one could imagine on a video game platform. The satisfaction I get after beating a friend is rivaled 
 by few other sports titles. The stat tracking online is also great. I just hope that Madden 07 
 and other EA sports titles will follow FNR 3's suit.
  
  Bottom line:
  Unless you demand a great solo experience, FNR is as good as boxing gets for the 360. Nothing will 
 come close to this for a long time --- well, other than FNR 4.
  
  Note:
  My scores are based largely on my tests (specifically, Value and Tilt) . I spend 90% of my gaming 
 online, and in those terms, FNR 3 is worth every penny. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: T00HuMaN
Rating: 8.6
Date: Mar 27, 2006 7:08 pm PT
Review:  This games graphics are amazing!!! best graphics on a boxing game ever! There just inst enough 
 in this game! the online is fun but you better bring your A game! The first time i played this 
 i instntly loved it but the more and more i played it the more it gets repetitve. its seems as 
 your fighting the same fighters over and over. It is fun to make your own person but not enough 
 choies! So i would rent this for a week or so and you will see how repetitive it gets. It is a 
 great game to looked at but is missing alot of substance! Once into the story mode it get very challenging! 
 some boxers seem impossible but you just have to find their weekeness and exploit that! otherwise 
 you will get nowhere! so go rent this game instead of buying it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CANuckSSS
Rating: 5.2
Date: Mar 27, 2006 5:08 pm PT
Review:  if not for the graphics you'll think that this game was made for NES. so stupidly designed game. 
 the "cracking sound" could have a devastating effect, but to your amazement, ur opponent could 
 still stand up!!!
  
  when u knockdown someone..... man the most UNREALISTIC fall..... the wiggling...... pleeeeeaaassseeee.......... 
 EA!!!! they look like squirming worm not human being. another pissing thing about this game, is 
 when you hit your opponent with your arsenal of haymakers, cut scene you can see ur boxer as if 
 you're the opponent of yourself!!! what the heck is that???
  
  not much of a difference with the FN2. only the graphics made improvement in this game. save your 
 $$$$$ and find another game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: disbadaszfool
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 27, 2006 4:47 pm PT
Review:  This is another one of the most exciting xbox 360 games i have played. The graphics are great. 
 The detail is awesome. The only thing I personally have a problem with, is it's way too hard sometimes! 
 EVEN ON EASY!
  
  OVERVIEW TIME!:
  
  Graphics - Great, some of the best graphics on the 360, 10/10.
  
  Gameplay - Great gameplay, 
 the controls are a little funky and hard to get used to. 8/10
  
  Sound - You don't really see anyone talk, so you can really say, 8/10
  
  Vaule - I dont know 
 how much time i will be spending on this game once i beat it, so yeah... 7/10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nyahnyah5
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 27, 2006 2:48 pm PT
Review:  This is a very well laid-out game. With the spectacular graphics, crushing sounds and the best gameplay 
 for a boxing game, Fight night round3
  wins the belt. Fight night round3 truly shows that the next-generation truly starts at Fight Night 
 round3 for the 360. With highly detailed player models, audience and arenas, Fight Night Round3 
 has no competition. 
  
  The bone-crushing, impactful sounds go great with the next-gen graphics.
  If you throw a big punch, you 
 can definitely hear it loud and clear. You can also hear your boxer using all his strength for the 
 bigger, better punches.
  The commentary is great but sometimes repetitive.
  
  The gameplay in Fight Night Round3 is solid and fun. There are no problems with anything in the 
 game except for weird gloop knoxdowns.
  The learning curve is atleast 15-30 minutes. The controls are easy to get used to but, when i play 
 i use the buttons instead of the right control stick.
  Fight Night Round3 is one of the most realistic, addictive games i have ever played. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrpuggie
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 27, 2006 6:22 am PT
Review:  Like I said, I'm not even a boxing fan. Graphically one of the best looking games on the 360. Gameplay 
 is great and where I get most of my value is online. I'm still learning the tricks of the trade 
 on gameplay. The challenge of smashing some other player out on the net gives you a good feeling 
 of being a badass. Overall this game gets played the most on my 360. All launch games don't compare 
 to this game. If you have Xbox live, then you must get this game. Go get it now. You won't be disappointed. 
 A+. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheWildthang
Rating: 8.7
Date: Mar 27, 2006 4:53 am PT
Review:  There's a lot of bad things to say about EA and their evil monopoly. But when they produce sporting 
 games of the caliber of Fight Night it's hard to stay mad at them. Before Fight Night came along 
 with it's total punch control system, boxing games were mostly glorified contests of button mashing. 
 The punch control system is so utterly intuitive and easy to control that you'll soon seem to be 
 some kind of pro as you duck and counter your opponents with consumate ease.
  
  Ok, so we've seen all this before with Fight Night Round 2 on the Xbox.. what does this super sexy 
 Xbox 360 version give us? Well in short, the most realistic boxers you've ever seen in a video 
 game. Honestly, if you squnit at your TV you'd swear you might actually be watching a real bout. 
 
  
  The bit that everyone comments on though are the slow motion 3D knock out sequences that take place 
 when you clock your opponent sufficiently hard to put them down on the canvas. The way that their 
 faces ripples with the force and blood and sweat goes flying off is almost poetic. In fact it's 
 so good that you'll end up watching them even after you've seen it for the 100th time.
  
  But although the visuals are jaw dropping, it won't keep you glued to the game once you get used 
 to them. Fortunately FN3 has gameplay in spades to keep you going. I've been fighting in the light 
 middleweight class for about 4 or 5 weeks now. I started with a scrawny looking guy who I've slowly 
 moulded to perfection thanks to the training mini-games which help break the gameplay up a bit.
 
  
  I've won and lost the championship belt a couple of times, but I always come back for the rematch 
 to see how badly I can whup the guy (or get whupped) this time around.
  
  If you played Fight Night Round 2 to death, then it might be difficult to justify parting with 
 the cash for what is essentially the same game with some slight modifcations and a big graphical 
 boost.
  
  If you are a Fight Night virgin however, I can't think of a better game to keep you glued to your 
 joypad for a few weeks whilst you beat all the various modes and then come back for more.
  
  Even if you've only got a passing interest in boxing games, you be hard pressed to find a more 
 enjoyable gaming experience on the 360 at this moment in time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CaptainCrazy
Rating: 8.2
Date: Mar 26, 2006 7:38 pm PT
Review:  We all know about EA how they milk their franchises, include features in one year and remove others, 
 then switch it around the next time. Thankfully, Fight Night Round 3 doesn't suffer from re-hash 
 syndrom too much thanks to the jaw-dropping graphics upgrade and improved boxing gameplay.
  
  FNR3 actually innovates by using incredibly life-like graphics in order to do away with the 
 health bar indicators. Graphics are so detailed that players can now see swelling, blood, cuts 
 and fatique emotion emitting from their boxer as the fight progresses depending on how they are 
 doing. You have to keep and eye on your boxer to tell know how he's feeling which draws you into 
 the realism of the game like never before. 
  
  The gameplay is a balanced mix of simulation and arcade style fighting. Using the analog stick 
 for total punch control allows you to realistically mimmick the general motion of throwing a punch 
 via the analog stick. Using the stick gives you almost complete control over your boxer so that 
 you can throw jabs, hooks, crosses, uppercuts, and haymakers to the head and body, block, parry 
 right/left head and body punches and duck and weave forward and back! There is just so much control 
 here that you can effectively come up with your own unique boxing style.
  
  The arcade elements come in the form of power haymakers, flash KO's and stun punches. These are 
 hard to land blows that can instantly cripple your opponent and send him down for the count even 
 if you are badly loosing. The is all well and good for the single player as it allows you to come 
 back and displays bone shattering replays, but online this is not a very fair element. These kind 
 of "easy win" punches allow a relatively unskilled player to beat a very skilled player even if 
 the skilled player has been dominating the whole fight and that's bound to cause extreme frustration 
 when playing online. 
  
  It's a truly visceral experience seeing one of your haymakers in slow-motion cuase bone cracking, 
 rippling of flesh and blood to spew out of your opponents face. The Xbox 360's immense power is 
 brutally put on display every time this happens. You will definitely be shocked for quite some 
 time every time you see these devastating replays.
  
  Many people have knocked the career mode as being too bland. This is possibly one area where EA 
 took a step back from the previous game but for me this is the first boxing game I've owned since 
 2001 and I think the career mode is ok. It has a great created a boxer mode that allows you to 
 fully customize the face and body shape as well as choose from various boxing styles and punch 
 styles. The career mode is very straight forward and there is no way to gauge your progress other 
 than a popularity meter. Between fights there is some basic training options but you can pick from 
 only three kinds: combo dummy, heavy bag and weight lifting. Each one is a mini game requiring 
 repetition of using the analog stick which requires some amount of skill so you'll probably want 
 to do all the mini games rather than auto train. 
  
  There are three difficulty levels that provide lots of challenge to keep you coming back for more. 
 Easy is only for beginners but the jump to medium difficulty is very large and many will struggle 
 for quite a while until you really get the parrying and countering down to a science. I haven't 
 even attempted hard but be prepared for a massive butt kicking.
  
  Now onto the sound effects and music. As you might expect, EA's "Trax" make their infamous return 
 with more rap music then is healthy for the average Joe. Ok so I'm just not a big rap/hip-hop fan 
 but I actually found some of the songs rather catchy but the problem is that here is not enough 
 tracks so you will hear the same ones over and over again. 
  
  Sound effects are pretty impressive and back up the graphics very well. The best sounds are when 
 you hit someone with a huge haymaker in slow-mo where you can hear the smack of the fists and ensuing 
 bones cracking, then the deep thud of a fighter hitting the canvas. I did noticed that sometimes 
 the sound cuts out when people should be talking but overall it holds up with the rest of the game.
 
  
  I'll sign off by saying FNR3 is one of the best exeriences on the Xbox 360 to date. It has the 
 most realistic human models ever seen in a game that help immerse the player and allow you to just 
 see the condition of the boxers by visual cues alone. The controls have a steep learning curve 
 but also add to the depth and immersiveness of this game and the AI is pretty smart and will give 
 you plenty of good fights later in your career. This game is a must have for boxing fans but I 
 suggest anyone remotely interested to check out the demo at the very least because you might end 
 up loving this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FamilyGuyFan507
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 26, 2006 6:37 am PT
Review:  Talk about one of the best Graphics games on X360... This games graphics are top notch... From blood, 
 to broken noses, to spit... This games unbelieveable... The gameplay is very fun and innnovative, 
 playing as Muhaamaid Ali never gets boring. Creating your own players and taking him online is 
 awesome to... When you get in the ring, you don't have your health bars, which leads to max realizim... Overall 
 i give this game a 9.5\
  
  Strenghts:
  -Best graphics in a long time
  -Gameplay a sure sucess.
  
  Weaknesses:
  -A tad repetitve!!
  -Button mashing used lots.
 
  
  Question:
  
  So if there is about 4 of these Fight Nights out, how does this game not get reppettitive at all?? 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VarsityGamer
Rating: 8.4
Date: Mar 25, 2006 6:15 pm PT
Review:  Coming in to fight night I knew the graphics were going to be amazing but I was more interested 
 on how they would affect gameplay and if the gameplay would be enjoyable enough to keep slugging 
 away long after youve retired in the single player. The good news is that the gameplay is greatly 
 better due to the next gen graphics mainly because the lack of the HUD and the realistic player 
 reactions to fatigue and big punches. however once you get into the middle sections of the game 
 the pizzazz begins to ware off and the gameplay becomes more of a series of meaningless fights 
 against drones luckily the inclusion of rivals will bring you back in to the experience for just 
 long enough to finish the career mode. Despite the small gripes I have with the single player experience 
 fight night makes up for it with its intense multiplayer matches over xbox live or sitting next 
 to your buddy on the couch both are just as intense. I found this and the classic matches to be 
 the only thing keeping me coming back for more but nonetheless a good overall game showing off 
 what next gen gameplay and visuals could be .
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Skihawks
Rating: 9.9
Date: Mar 25, 2006 3:18 pm PT
Review:  Fight Night RD 3 for the 360 is amazing. The first thing that will draw your attention is the graphics. 
 Yes, this is next-gen. The models look outstanding. The skin, sweat and trunks look almost photo-realistic. 
 You will see fighters' facial expressions, which is key in how you play the game. If your fighter 
 shows a look of concern, it may be time to stay away and protect yourself better. The boxers will 
 also show wear on their faces as they get bloodied to a pulp. The blood, especially between rounds 
 when you play the corner man mini-games, looks somewhat weak. All-in-all, the graphics will make 
 your jaw drop.
  
  Graphics is only part of the equation. Without stellar gameplay, graphics mean zilch. Well, the 
 gameplay is solid as ever. The HUD-less view (optional) is a great way to get immursed in the action 
 as you will need to read your boxer's body language instead of a stamina meter. The analog controls 
 are the best and still in tact. The haymakers have been toned down so strategy is key.
  
  The only thing the game is missing is rankings. While you work your way through matches you are 
 offered several options of boxers you can select to fight with purse and potential bonuses at stake. 
 There really is no way to know how you stack up. 
  
  Overall, EA did an awesome job with this game. It is a must have for anyone's collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 1o0oDOMo0o1
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 25, 2006 4:54 am PT
Review:  found night round 3 is a great game but the controlls are a little tricky. the graphics are awsome 
 and the soundtrack is incredible. u can just leave the game on to listen to the music thats how 
 great the sound track is. the controlls in this game are hard to use and the learning curve is 
 hard. it might take you a day to get good at this game. this game has some of the ebst graphics 
 i have ever seen. i recomend this game to all boxing fans or people who like boxing. the online 
 is great to. lets talk about gameplay. like i said the controlls are annoying but once you got 
 them down you will b a master. if u puch and it gets blocked its annoying because u cant move and 
 ur oppent hits u with like a hay maker. this is a great game for the 360 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MDL54876
Rating: 8.6
Date: Mar 24, 2006 8:14 pm PT
Review:  This is a very fun game, I have created my character in career mode and I have been totally addicted 
 to it this past day. The graphics are great, game play is right where it should be, and i am overall 
 pleased with this game. A must buy for any gamer! Sound effects also make me cringe when I get 
 countered with a brutal haymaker. Overall this game is a knockout, all though you cant start a 
 career with an actual fighter, like winky wright or bernard hopkins, creating your own guy is in 
 depth and accurate. looks great on an hd or a regular tv. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: konichiwa21
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 24, 2006 7:04 pm PT
Review:  Amazing graphics , great gameplay , very few problems. 
  
  The graphics are extremely good , you will have moments when you think its a real match . The backgrounds 
 , the audience , the boxers , lightning it's all photorealistic. 
  
  The fighting is very fluent once you get used to it. You will defintly devolope your own style. 
 
  
  Now with the problems , the loading is annoying , espicially when it loads to do something small. 
 Also , the advertising gets out of controll , the buger king guy is an avaiable option for a trainer 
 and he really is the best one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vonkemp
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 24, 2006 5:19 pm PT
Review:  I love boxing, but have never really liked boxing games. When EA put a demo out on XBOX Live I 
 downloaded it and immediatley fell in love. I bought it right when it came out. This is an absolutley 
 incredible game. The controls are the best for a boxing game period. I really like how the right 
 analog stick is used for all sorts of punches. The graphics have got to be the high point of the 
 game, the're almost too good. When I see a hard punch I almost flinch. There are of course a few 
 glitches, but they aren't bad. The sound is great too. The sounds some of the punches make can 
 make me cringe. My only gripe of the game is the small soundtrack, although they are overall good 
 songs. Also I would have liked to see Russell Crowe in the game. That would be awesome!!!!!!!!!!
 
  This is definitely a must have for all boxing fans if not all 360 owners. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: queens091
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 23, 2006 3:57 pm PT
Review:  The graphics are beautiful and the sound is spectacular. The gameplay is slower which makes the 
 game very realistic. Don't listen to the people who say it is too hard or too slow. If you want 
 a realistic boxing game, then Fight Night Round 3 is the best choice. Creating a character is by 
 far the best one up to date. VERy very addictive. There are alot of boxers in the game, howvere, 
 there is one flaw. WHERE IS ZAB JUDAH, FFLOYD MAYWEATHER, AND TARVER?!?!?!?!?!? even with that 
 said, the game is amazing and you cant put the controller down once u picked it up. THE MOST REALISTIC 
 BOXING GAME EVER!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ll_jun10r_ll
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 23, 2006 10:26 am PT
Review:  The bells have rung again, with Fight Round 3. The game has you going through multiple paths, where 
 you can create your own champion and fight your way to becoming the best. If you dont want to do 
 that however, You also have the option of doing and ESPN classic mode where you take the role of 
 famous boxers of the past such as Mr. Ali himself, and fight in classic boughts. You will also of 
 course have online multiplayer and split screen.
  
  The controls, if you haven't ever played a fight night game will seem slightly confusing but easy 
 to figure out and master. The lay out for them is that depending on where you move the right joystick 
 depends on how your character will move punch and where.
  
  You will fight loads of guy to make your way to the top, and in doing that, you will also be able 
 to hire a trainer before each match to increase your stats, the better the trainer, the better 
 you can raise your stats, and also the more he will cost.
  
  The graphics in this game are absolutely beautiful, each boxers short move around so slickly, you'll 
 forget you eyes need to be looking a little higher. Just kidding, you won't forget you need to 
 be looking higher. However you will notice from time to time a couple of graphic problems, with 
 your boxer going through the ring or the other boxer. But when your, or your opponent do manage 
 to get that one hard hit, you'll admire the slowdown to show the blood and junk fly off your face.
 
  
  All the cheering sounds rich, and those hard hits make you want more. The soundtrack is also very 
 admirable.
  
  In the end this game is very worthwhile, the games career will last while, and the hard hits wont 
 get old for a while, this is definately one of the games for the system that you wanna get. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fatality4u
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 23, 2006 10:03 am PT
Review:  Fight Night Round 3 provides some of the best ratio of gameplay to graphics that the Xbox 360 has 
 given yet. Although it may provide a mediocre career mode, the online capabilities provide a nearly 
 endless amount of gameplay that will keep avid boxers on the edge of their chairs waiting for the 
 perfect moment to strike. Although Fight Night is geared towards boxing fans, its easy to learn 
 nature, makes it easy for people who are marginally interested to get into the fight. Dont take 
 this reviewers word for it, continue on to read the first hand experience of one of the up and 
 coming boxers: Josh The Professional Shearer.
  
  Fatality4u: So Professional how would you describe your initial foray into the boxing scene?
 
  
  Professional: Well, the bulk of my initial experience had me facing two main options in the beginning. 
 I could have either jumped into my career and develop myself to rise through the ranks of boxing 
 and make some money and popularity. Or I could have jumped right into it and faced other boxers 
 from across the globe in basic matches.
  
  Fatality4u: Could you describe and go into more depth with the career that you had?
  
  Professional: 
 I started off my career with first making a name for myself. I went through and did a complete 
 change to my body with hair, my face, and even a little plastic surgery to correct some of my harder 
 features. Although it wasnt necessary I believed that it would help to enhance my face value and 
 enhance my experience. In the beginning I had to do some basic training behind the scenes to establish 
 my body in the main categories, so I could as well rounded a fighter as possible. After I was done 
 establishing myself as a boxer, I started straight into the amateur ranks. It was a slow start, 
 facing only amateurs from the area, barely scraping any money from each of the fights. Slowly but 
 surely I got chances to enhance myself by facing some greats in some matches. In between each of 
 my contract fights I would train hard on one area of my body to improve it the best that I could. 
 After I started winning some fights I started steam rolling through the ranks and I won a lot of 
 tournaments on the way. I made my way to the top facing a lot of opponents on the way to become 
 the Middleweight Champion. 
  
  Fatality4u: You had mentioned that you faced some boxers from all around the globe, how did that 
 work?
  
  Professional: I worked with some people I knew to get some fights scheduled between some of the 
 big fights in my career. I got to face opponents from the US and from all around the globe. That 
 is where a lot of my experience was spent and it was really the most rewarding part. Although it 
 did not help me in my career through the ranks up to the championship, it did help me to establish 
 my fighting and to become a better boxer all around. It also helped me to find the weaknesses and 
 strengths of all of the fighting styles that the other boxers had developed and honed. At no point 
 did I find myself getting a bit sluggish while fighting and I would never find myself stuttering, 
 which is nice because you will often find yourself doing that when fighting overseas.
  
  Fatality4u: Would you say you had to customize your control very much? Was it easy to get into 
 the fighting style and throwing the punches?
  
  Professional: It was very easy to get into the controls of everything. The way that the throwing 
 the punches go, it is very natural and you would find yourself throwing the punches and blocking 
 very easily. Although only after extensive experience was I able to really control my punches and 
 I no longer found myself just randomly throwing my punches with no disregard to the consequences. 
 It really is something that takes a while to be able to control when to throw certain punches and 
 when to back off. That would probably be the biggest downfall of the boxing as it does seem to 
 take a very long time before you feel like you are actually planning the blows and not just randomly 
 throwing them.
  
  Fatality4u: How realistic did things look to you, while fighting, because some times the movies 
 make things look better than they are?
  
  Professional: Things looked stunning while fighting. I never would have thought that they would 
 have looked that good. Each of the people had their own unique characteristics that I was able 
 to distinguish, and even the blood and sweat that was coming from my opponents. Sometimes when 
 you are watching fights little details would get blurred out, but not here since everything is 
 so realistic you can see every little detail. This experience looked better than the small little 
 bouts that I had undertaken in previous forays into the sport. All I can say is that it is the 
 most realistic experience that I have ever had. 
  
  Fatality4u: Well I would hope so you were actually there. Did you ever find yourself missing some 
 stuff with the all the sound? 
  
  Professional: Amazingly enough no. I was always able to hear my trainer at all times and I was 
 even able to hear the announcers sometimes, especially when I was destroying my opponent. In between 
 fights I would listen to my rap music and it would get me in the mood to really get into the next 
 fight. Although, I probably need to get some more cds as I kept hearing the same music over and 
 over, but I wasnt going to stop and get new music I was training very intensely. Everybodys voice 
 always came through even during the fights as very crystal clear and they never distracted me at 
 any point, probably because they knew that this was a fight not a talk show.
  
  Fatality4u: Overall, would you say that all the hard the work that you put into your fighting experience 
 of a high value and would you go back again?
  
  Professional: Most certainly. I got so much out of this experience that it seems like the little 
 that I put into it was well worth it. I would definitely go back into fighting, and actually I 
 would like to announce my entry into the Heavyweight class. I know that there is a definitely different 
 fighting mechanic to the Heavyweight, but I feel like I can compete within the class competitively. 
 I will be having my first fight very soon so I am looking forward to that new experience. They 
 say it is just boxing, but it is a new weight class so anything can go.
  
  Fatality4u: Ok folks, you heard it here first! Josh The Professional Shearer is entering into 
 the Heavyweight class to begin competing for the championship. We look forward to see you in the 
 upcoming fights and the best of luck to you Professional. This is Fatality4u saying Good Night, 
 Good Fight.
  
  If you are a fan of fighting games, then this is definitely the game for you as Fight Night Round 
 3 provides a lasting gameplay mechanic that will keep you coming back for more. Access to the Xbox 
 live will let you extend your gameplay experience to a nearly unlimited number of hours of gameplay, 
 but is not necessary. The casual gamer can pick this game up very easily and would be well worth 
 their time and money. Fight Night Round 3 may not be the exclusive 360 title that people have been 
 looking for to solidify the 360, but it is a solid addition to the ever-expanding 360 library.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dimsey
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 22, 2006 10:59 pm PT
Review:  I load up a quick match and the first thing that got me was the graphics, in a word - WOW. 
  When the fight started, I hadn't even realized it did - I thought it was a cutscene or something, 
 but sure enough it was in game graphics.
  They're draw droppingly beautiful. The fighters, the enviroments. The only exceptions would be 
 the ring girls and the audience, but thats easily forgivable.
  
  It feels slower then previous fightnights and that takes some getting used too, but after a few 
 rounds this feeling passes.
  
  The sound is also great. Good punches always land with satisfying "thuds". The announcer sounds 
 good, and typically what he says actually has some bearing on whats happening on screen - and it'd 
 have too - by default the HUD is off, so you can't see how much health or energy you have left, 
 nor how much times left on the clock - so you have to rely a bit on what the announcers saying 
 to get the jist of where you line up in a bout.
  
  I haven't played it overly much just yet, but the career mode is decent enough - certainly an improvement 
 over FN1, though I can't vouch for the 2nd Fight Night.
  
  Of course, it's always better to play with friends and in Fight Night it's no exception, multiplayer 
 is a blast.
  
  If you're a fan of boxing and you own a 360, you owe it to yourself to get this game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: sircalmar
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 22, 2006 3:10 pm PT
Review:  If you are a boxing fan... I don't need to sell you on this game. If you aren't... you might want 
 to become one. While it doesn't have a whole lot of big name boxers, FNR3 is a lot of fun. I picked 
 it up and went right to the campaign mode, creating my own boxing legend who would in time light 
 up the squared circle.
  
  Gameplay - The controls took a little getting used to, and I never really got the hang of blocking 
 but I went 38-0 with 37 ko's so it can't be to tough. The total control punching made it interesting 
 to plan what you were going to do, because everything comes from one button.
  
  Graphics - No huds.... beautiful in game movements, my only issue was the blood on the boxers faces... EA 
 come on... everything else was so close to perfect and you had a 3 year old paint the blood with 
 a crayola!
  
  Sound - the soundtrack wasn't to my taste (virtually no rock) but the in fight sounds were great. 
 I was dissapointed though when the announcers would fully announce the other fighters and say NOTHING 
 when mine came into the ring... not even the nickname or hometown that you selected from a list.... I 
 don't expect them to say every typed in name but at least the selectable options....
  
  Value - Even not being a boxing fan, the game was close to perfect... if you ahve a 360 at least 
 go ahead and rent it.... you never know 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sam-o-
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 22, 2006 12:57 pm PT
Review:  This game is truly amazing, i've never bought a boxing game before and i'm not that keen on fighting 
 games but this game really gave me a pleasant surprise. The first time i played this was when my 
 mate gave me the demo, i played it all day! The controls where genius, the sound made me cringe, 
 the amazing speed and brutality of the fight had me sweating on the edge of my seat!
  
  Then i bought the game and the variety of game modes could keep you going for weeks, the career 
 mode was a good idea which was unfortunatly spoiled by the ridiculous prices of the gear and specialist 
 trainers you won't get any new gear until you get quite far into the game but however unpolished 
 it's good to play in short blasts.
  
  One thing that divides this game from the rest is the knock out punch mode where the sound is dampened 
 and your opponent slows down inviting you to land that that perfect haymaker bang on target rewarding 
 you with a gorgeously unplesant squelching noise (which was made by a guy with wellies jumping 
 on/into a dead pig!) .
  
  overall this game is a god compared to other fighting games with amazing gameplay, controls, brutality 
 but unfortunatly perfection does get boring after a while, well i hate to say it but if your a 
 hardcore gamer who just loves to play games hours on end i can't really reccomend this to you, 
 but if you play in short blasts for about 2-3 hours a night this is an absoulute classic for you
 
  
  Thanks for reading
  Sam 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SwannDawg
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 22, 2006 7:54 am PT
Review:  This game is an awesome hard-hitting fighting game. Every punch counts. This game is the greatest 
 ever. If you ever get the chance to play it. It will get you hooked in with the graphics. After 
 playing the game at Best Buy it made me automatically want to buy it. Before I can buy it, i must 
 have a 360. Even if you are not a boxing fan. You will still love to play this game. Unlike my 
 friend who got whooped buy me several times. Enough with the chat go and buy this game before there 
 are no more. This game will be a greatest hit very soon I guarantee it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MegO_NeoClock
Rating: 8.1
Date: Mar 22, 2006 4:06 am PT
Review:  I'm not that great at English but hopefully you still want to read a good rewiew..
  
  Instead of trying to make a really cool game 
  where you have to really go talk to the media,
 
  weight you guy and stuff.. (when I say weight, I dont meen just standing there
  waiting for your opponent to hit you, I meen really look how much your guys 
  weight is, cause 
 you have trained him) 
  
  they've done a really good boxning game without any real deepth.
  What you se and do know about 
 the game, that's what you get..
  
  It's the same blurryness every time you take down your opponent,
  Same cracking sound and spitting 
 every time,
  but thanks to some physical engine It doesn't look all the same..
  And I dont know why but you can still not do girls/women.
  I would have done a woman if I could 
 cause then you would
  have something to look at while playing the game..
  
  possitive thing though Is that there are many diffrent
  Stances and fighting styles wich is a 
 great plus,
  cause we all remember FNR 2 were all the people stood and 
  fought exactly the same way, even Mohammed Ali was doing
  the same stuff. I don't think that made 
 him famus..
  
  But still it's a great game if you like boxing.
  so
  
  GAMEPLAY: you have total stick control
  GRAPHICS: it looks better then if you'd have been there
 
  SOUND: same cracking sound, same Akon song, but still pretty good
  VALUE: it's worth your money if your into boxing if not, there is nothing to get
  
  FINAL JUDGEMENT:
 
  It's a solid boxing game, offers very little to those who
  want's something more or less than a solid boxing game.
  Cool, funny, good looking game.
  If 
 you don't have an HD-tv or can play on an regular computer screen
  I don't really recommend buying this game.
  cause It's like moving slow, real slow and you have 
 
  less then half the screen filled up..
  
  If you got any questions post em to me.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ovakil
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 21, 2006 8:30 am PT
Review:  Fight Night Round Three looks and is amazing. The right stick control of the punching is executed 
 perfectly. The graphics and animation are top notch. EA cannot possibly do better. 
  To start , the graphics. Ten out of ten. Perfect. I have standard def tv and even so they look 
 great. 
  This game has excellent gameplay. Another ten out of ten. You'd think that just punching people 
 would get repetetive, but it doesn't. They put so much variety in the boxers and punches that this 
 game never gets old. 
  But there are downsodes to every game... in the past! I play Fight Night almost every day and I 
 still have not found a downside other than Fight night being TOO good. If I could give this game 
 a rating higher than ten, I would. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dtuck
Rating: 7.2
Date: Mar 21, 2006 7:41 am PT
Review:  I haven't played the previous Fight Night games and this is the first boxing game I've ever played 
 so I don't have any particular yardstick to measure with here. I bought this game on the back of 
 the demo from Xbox Live, a very impressive demo I thought.
  
  The first thing that hits you is the graphics, they are superb and along with G. R. A. W represent 
 the best the 360 has seen so far, to be honest I wouldn't have expected any less as there's only 
 2 main characters on screen at any one time and so the developers have been able to spend a lot 
 of time focusing on how to perfect those models. The result is almost photo-realistic boxers.
 
  
  The second thing you notice is the control system, rather than punches being button controlled 
 you use the controller's right stick to determine the direction, type of punch and power of punch 
 you deliver to the other boxer.
  
  This control system works well although I did find my thumbs hurting a bit after repeated play. 
 It definitely comes into it's own in a 2 player slug fest as both players end up violently moving 
 the wireless controllers around in the air looking for that killer upper cut.
  
  Moving away from the 2 player mode, I created myself as a boxer using the boxer creation option 
 which is pretty cool and then embarked on a career as a light heavy weight.
  
  The idea is you pick a fight contract, train your boxer up and fight, and then repeat the whole 
 thing over again. You can win money along the way which you can spend on clothing which provides 
 bonuses to your ring skills but the real reward is popularity. Once your popularity bar fills up 
 then you get to fight in a main event and work your way towards the titles.
  
  For the first few hours the career mode was fun as I watched the amazing knock down animations 
 but after a while I became tired of the same thing over and over again. Aside from the fighting 
 there's very little depth to this game, and there's not enough in the game play iteration to keep 
 me interested.
  
  That said the game has a decent learning curve, it's easy enough to go in there at the start, slug 
 it out and dish out a few hay makers but after a few hours of progression you'll need to master 
 defence and that takes a bit more concentration.
  
  It certainly has life as a 2 player game and can be fun over Xbox live, however the solo play is 
 too shallow and this reduces it's value. I'd like to have been able to see statistics on how other 
 boxers are getting on, a fluid and constantly changing world in which to box in. This I feel would 
 have given more context to the solo game, made it more immersing and therefore more enjoyable.
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: swamptick
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 21, 2006 6:18 am PT
Review:  Alot of people have had the lone complaint that the game plays to slow. Those naysayers have not 
 played past the ameture levels then. The reason the boxer is slow is due to his lower stats. As 
 the boxer trains up, he will get quicker. Thats about all I have to say about this game. 
  
  The gameplay is improved. The graphics are jaw dropping on hdtv. My lone complaint is the ranking 
 system. Why cant I see how far to go until my championship bout. I understand the popularity meter 
 and like it, but it should have been incorparated with the ranking chart from the last one. Also 
 it would have been cool to fight back during the weigh in mini game. Why does Lamply always say 
 I got beat up at the weigh in even if I blocked the first punch?
  
  An outstanding piece of programming. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hibbleton00
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 21, 2006 5:12 am PT
Review:  Im not really into boxing i really couldnt care less about it, but when i played this game i thourght 
 OMG!! When you get your first KO you think god i done that to that guy, cos when you look at the 
 other guy he's got a mashed face and blood coming down from every part of his head. This game is 
 truly amazing either alone offline, with freinds offline, or with anyone online this game is a must 
 have. The carrear mode you start off as a amuetur nobody and you work your way up to the top fights 
 famous fighters and then you get long term rivalrys which is really good. The fight machancis and 
 animations are amazing even for a xbox 360 game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamingboywonder
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 21, 2006 1:54 am PT
Review:  so in a nut shell this game is awsome i truley recemend buy ing this for the 360 the graphics are 
 next gen for shure and the sound efects are perfect to the last punch its cool u can buy your out 
 fit gloves shorts every thing even tatoos my guy looks pretty mean and im gonna try online cant 
 tell u how that is but im sure its sweet i do think for 60.00 u are geting ur money worth unlike 
 other games story mode is pretty easy to skim through it you get money if u beat the oponents u 
 get alot at the last player but thers belt ranking amature pro all pro and like 10 players to beat 
 on each over all u will have fun buying boxing gear and what not so go ahead and buy this game 
 its worth 60.00 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fl3xin
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 20, 2006 11:32 pm PT
Review:  The first boxing game where you can actually float like a butterfy and sting like a bee!
  
  The game is that good that when I got it, GRAW took a back seat.
  
  This is a very well polished 
 game which brings you fantastic graphics and bone crunching sound effects, the control system works 
 perfectly, enabling you to throw whatever punch combinations you desire, making this game easy 
 to pick up and play but also has enough depth to keep you playing it for months.
  
  The only downside to this game that i can see is the following:
  It would have been verry nice 
 to have been able to access the real top 10 ranking fighters in each weight. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: isaach11687
Rating: 8.6
Date: Mar 20, 2006 2:06 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: FN Round 3's gameplay is supreme but still having certain flaws. Besides the game feeling 
 repetitive, the career mode is easily acceptable. The online play is also a treat. 
  
  Graphics: The graphics look amazing. Every replay looks like your watching it on PPV. It makes 
 you feel like you're really fighting for the title. Every drop of sweat makes you wipe the sweat 
 off your eyes, because you think you're dead tired. Even with the amazing graphics there still 
 are some small glitches that pop up during replays. Example would be Ali's hand going through Fraizer's 
 head after a big knockout.
  
  Sound: The sound track was pretty well fit since EA is still going with the hip hop theme. Even 
 though the punches hitting the body and face still sounded great, the crowd didn't seem to realistic. 
 It was more of a church choir concert.
  
  Value: FN Round 3 is a really good game, but after playing the career mode twice and playing about 
 20 games online, it just doen't make you want to play it anymore. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gAmEmAn69
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 20, 2006 1:35 pm PT
Review:  Fight night has always been an impressive look into the boxing franchise. It offered an invigorating 
 look at how boxers and trainers alike coincide with one another, and always had a unique sense 
 of realism added to the gameplay. Fight Night Round 3 redifines the genre by adding a suberb amount 
 of graphical improvements over its predeccessor, and lands hard punches on the gameplay this time 
 around.
  
  Graphics/Gameplay: 
  Breathtaking. The next-gen is finally here, and this game is a perfect example at what the Xbox 
 360 is capable of. It offers amazing graphical achievements in facial animations and textures. 
 The sheer look of a boxer's face in slow motion rippling and becoming distorted by the hand of 
 his opponent is just astonishing. The custom create a boxer is also intuitive, and allows a player 
 to get their own unique sense of style, and added replay value for the overall portion of the game. 
 The graphics are accompanied by amazing arenas and environments, like the excellent Madison Square 
 Garden venue, and the Aragon Ballroom. All of the aspects of the game look simply beautiful, along 
 with the life-like fans cheering you on in the backround, and impressive bodily effects like sweating, 
 and the amount of cuts and bruises a boxer can accumulate on his face. The gameplay is solid as 
 well. The career mode will have you climbing that ladder to the boxing hall of fame. The online 
 component is really where the challenge lies, as you duke it out with players all accross the globe 
 in hopes of boxing supremecy. 
  
  Sound: 
  From the bone chilling crunching of your opponent's face as you lay your haymakers and counter 
 punches, to the blood and saliva just spewing accross the ring, this game will have you clenching 
 your teeth together in awe at the amount of realistic sound effects that has been put into this 
 title to make it shine. 
  
  Control:
  Fight Night's control scheme is where the most innovation is achieved. Instead of using the simplistic 
 A, B, Y, X button configuration, you now have complete control by using the second analog stick to 
 choose your punches, and jabs. The whole control stick is at your disposal, and offers you various 
 changes as you bring together the complexity of your combos and attacks. The controller is designed 
 well for this type of game, thanks to the ergonomics that the 360 controller offers. 
  
  Replay: 
  The campaign if played on normal or hard mode will last you a long time. However, if 
 you start as a middleweight and work your way up the ladder to the hall of fame heavyweight champion, 
 it will take you quite a while to grasp all of the belts. However, after the campaign there is 
 a shist load to go back for to unlock, and the online mode is addictive as well. Playing against 
 another human opponent may be the most fun and challenging aspect of this game, as you test your 
 might and skills against people accross the country, and world.
  
  Overall:
  This has to be one of the most prettiest 360 games to date, as well as the most addictive sports 
 title I have played in a long ass time. With the amount of realism this game offers, and how much 
 effort goes into making the graphics stand out to a point where you are literally rubbing your 
 face to make sure it is still intact after being pounded by one punch after another, and an online 
 mode that is the most compelling fighting system ever invented, Fight Night offers a lot to come 
 back for in the end, and will have you hooked months after its initial release date. Pick one up, 
 and start the punishment pronto. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: timlinson21
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 19, 2006 12:50 pm PT
Review:  WELCOME BACK EA SPORTS!!! I was very disappointed when EA Sports released Madden and NBA Live this 
 year. Graphically, it's top notch but the gameplay... well "It sucks" But when this one came out 
 i thought it was the best game from EA Sports so far.. Graphics are phenomenal sounds are fantastic 
 and the crowds are realistic as well... For me there's only 1 downside for this game and that is 
 the commentary. Trust me it could be waaayyyy better. The commentator (i don't know who that is) 
 repeats himself every 2 mins. maybe EA sports can throw couple more lines there next year. but 
 overall this game is OFF THE HOOK! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: b_blakeney
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 19, 2006 3:37 am PT
Review:  I could tell you about FNR3's beautiful graphics -- the sprays of sweat as you land a blow on your 
 opponents normal-mapped face -- or I could tell you about how cool it is to make your own character, 
 choosing from skin tones, haircuts, and trunks, but I'm not going to.
  
  In that department, the pictures speak for themselves. The main strength this Slugger bears is 
 it's ability to hand you full reign of your fighter. Using one thumbstick, it's possible to control 
 every punch. You can land a rightie jab with a twist, then turn it the other way to follow up with 
 a haymaker. it works out so innately, it's tough not to go after the Golden Gloves yourself. 
 
  
  After I landed my first haymaker, I was hooked, but after my first KO? I was shadowboxing before 
 bed. 
  
  Career mode shouldn't go unmentioned, either. It's... Well, amazing. I found myself up until 3:00 
 in the morning, creating my fighter at 12:30, fighting my way through all the chumps that I laid 
 out with my quick jabs. I'd figure out my strategies -- a tremendously overlooked feature of sports 
 games - and weaken the guy with some quick shots... Then, I'd put the money in the bank with a 
 couple of 1-2's to the gut. The guy would start draggin' his feet after that, so I'd let 'em have 
 it with the "Bad Intentions" or "the Irish", a pair of signature moves that I purchased in the 
 game's "Fight Store." 
  
  FNR3 Has mastered the formula for a great game: Mix together beautiful graphics, great features, 
 and clever controls, and voila! 
  
  This game's got the Sweet Science down.
  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrarmagedon
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 18, 2006 11:55 pm PT
Review:  This is almost a must buy for 360 owners! (Unless your not into boxing) . Anyway FN is very awesome. 
 Everything about this game seems just about perfect from the stunning graphics and animations to 
 the unique controller setup. This well than makes up for EA's previous sports game like the mild 
 Madden 06. So to make a long story short this game is a knock out!
  
  The game- FN in my opinion has better graphics than any other game that is currently out. Everything 
 is just amazing the player models, the crowd, and the ring look second to none. It feels like you 
 are actually watching a boxing match, so now you can tell pay per view to kiss your ass if you 
 have this game. The sound is also quiet amazing with every punch sounding like it is actually delivering 
 the damage. The controller set up is also awesome. With the nice feature of using the analog to 
 swing, direct, and to determine where and how powerful the punch is going to be. This makes a boxing 
 game more controllable than ever.
  
  Single player- Single player is great. It offers the play now or classic matches modes. But the 
 best thing about it is career. Career lets you either create or play as a famous boxer. Your probably 
 going to want to create though. Since you can just about customize everything about your character, 
 so you can basically have yourself in the game. Career is well a career with you working your way 
 to the top, eventually getting to champion of the world. Each title match offers an achievement 
 for your gamer points, and of course there is tons of unlocks. But be warned the game does get 
 very tough towards the end!
  
  Multiplayer- Multiplayer is also stunning since you can use you created boxer from single player 
 to brawl it out with the rest of the world. With online opponent's character being unique in their 
 fighting style and look every online match is almost guaranteed to be different. This adds countless 
 game play time to the game and is difficulty worth the purchase of the game alone.
  
  Well look like EA scored this time!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HaloHunter86
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 18, 2006 11:08 pm PT
Review:  This game is totally awesome... in my opinion this is the only game that really shows off the true 
 graphics of the xbox 360. The new moves that they added to this one is so cool and the power punches 
 are hot. Graphics are totally sick in this game. But I think that in the gameplay, they could of 
 made it where you can practice with your custom guy more in the gym than just once in between fights. 
 They should of made also where you can use your custom character online instead of using the default 
 characters already there. But after all the game is really great and is totally addictive. Once 
 you pick up that controller... you won't put it down... trust me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Inuyasha_Iic
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 18, 2006 9:32 pm PT
Review:  This game is really good, I love it. There is only one small/major problem about it. The graphics 
 are really good, but the things like feet going through the floor, and fists not actually hitting 
 someone, but it counts as a hit. Its just not as advanced as I thought it would be. Don't get me 
 wrong, the gameplay is simply amasing, its really fun. It not like FNR3 were you could walk in 
 there and haymaker the guy and KO him in 3 min. You actually have to block and parry, which makes 
 the game challenging, and more fun. If you're looking for a good sports/fighting game, this would 
 be it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jamesydagger
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 18, 2006 1:43 pm PT
Review:  Its true, Fight night is excellent and the first time you see your opponant on the recieving end 
 of a well planned upercut its so sweet. But the career mode is way too boring. I personally liked 
 the sponsored fights including the Dodge match and the burger king match but I dont think I will 
 keep this when I have completed it and got all achievements. (I am middleweight champion and have 
 only 2 fights before I get maximum 1000 gamerpoints.)
  
  I have not ventured online with this although I have live as I have no interest in a 12 year old 
 kid screaming in my ear or being beat by the ever growing crowd of cheats that plague xbox live.
 
  
  In summary a great game that sjows off your machines power............... for about a week : ( 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BongDonkey
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 5, 2007 8:53 pm PT
Review:  Ok, so, where to begin?
  
  Let's hit the ring with the career mode. It is, without a doubt, easy. Too easy. BUT, it also does 
 a a great job at somewhat making it feel like the other boxers are indeed coming up in the ranks 
 with you. By other boxers I mean the like of Roy Jones Jr., Oscar De La Hoya, and Ricky Hatton, 
 among others.
  The popularity aspect of the career is somewhat, how do I say, cheap? Winning fights and advancing 
 based solely on popularity is a little bit fantasty based, so it really takes away form the whole 
 rising star feel of the career mode.
  
  Creat-A-Champ is back, and toned down to say the least. It's still heavy on customizing, just not 
 in the next gen area we all hoped for.
  Player models looks incredibly real. Too real... :p The cuts, bruises, swelling, it all adds to 
 the immersion of the game.
  
  Dual analog stick control is back, and it brings new punches with it. New to the series is a stun 
 punch , which, upon impact, will send your opponent into a daze and a FPS view. Once in, he must 
 block a flurry of punches to escape successfully and return to the fight. The stun punch and flash 
 KO (one hit knock down) are indeed powerful, yet rather useless due to the fact they take a incredible 
 amount of time to pull off, leaving you open for an ass beat.
  
  And online. It's set up reather nicely, although you will run into the occasional maxed boxer online, 
 which is indeed unfair and rather cheap.
  
  I know, my review is not incredibly long, or detailed, but it lays out the basics, and that's pretty 
 much what I aimed for. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mr_manboy
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 17, 2006 6:19 am PT
Review:  As good as this game is, (keep in mind I've only played the demo on the 360) the actual gameplay 
 is good, the graphics are good, but I personally think that it just isn't "smooth" enough to be 
 an epic game. The way I see it, EA Sports put it all on the line in this game, making it a pathmaker 
 so that others can learn from there mistakes and create the ultimate real-time, rag doll game. 
 OXM looked passed these mistakes and gave it the ten, I was happy to see the rating on this site 
 because it didn't look passed these things, it gave this crash-test-dummy game the rating it deserved. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bradjust45
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 17, 2006 4:05 am PT
Review:  to me this is the best boxing game ever. with the great graphics amd gameplay there is no comparison. 
 especially there is no HUD so you will have to know when your player is getting tired or the other 
 player is too. even the demo looked great. to top that all off you dont even need hd to see the 
 great graphics!! OXM magazing gave theis a 10.00 out of 10.0!! WOW
  
  I GIVE THE GAME A 9.0 :) 
  
  Also the xbox 360 is the type of console every one wants and now 
 we can give them examples of great games 
::::::

::::::
UserName: detroithardcore
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 16, 2006 3:32 pm PT
Review:  This game is gorgeous graphically, in fact there has never been a boxing game look so good! The 
 controls well.... why fix it if it aint broke? they added a couple new punches which can turn the 
 tide in a match, which is a bit upsetting at times when youre winning for 6 rounds and some dude 
 online hits ya with one and wins..... but thats a whole other story in its own.
  
  Ive owned all of the fight nights since they revamped ko kings, theyve all been a little better 
 than the last. but there is a few things about round 3 that does bother me.... first - the training 
 isnt really up to par, i think they could have thrown in a couple different mini games (jump rope, tread 
 mill, sparring that accounts for something.... etc) . Second - the career gets to be tedious, and 
 you feel like you are doing the same thing over and over again. Third - I dont like the fact that 
 its the equipment you wear that makes your guy a better fighter, (yeah im tougher but now im wearing 
 orange trunks with blue shoes and a purple mouth guard) I personally think on the 360 version if 
 you upload a song to your harddrive and use it as your theme it should give you something, and 
 if you had ring girls like the older version of fight night .... etc.
  
  The game is still good and youll not find a better boxing game out there but adding better graphics, 
 and 2 punches isnt much of an upgrade to be honest, maybe next time around they can make a leap 
 into the future instead of a baby step. (say add mike tyson to the roster, and have new training 
 methods, maybe have a time era you can fight in, where big fights happen around you during your 
 career) 
  
  This game is a must buy for people who like boxing, and people who have never played the series 
 before, its fun and can be quite amusing to see different peoples fighting styles online, as for 
 long time fans of the series than you should already know what to expect, and if youve watched 
 any of the videos than you know how its gonna look too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jtadams22
Rating: 7.2
Date: Mar 16, 2006 2:10 pm PT
Review:  The graphics are outstanding although I liked the damage modeling from FN 2 better. What I was 
 most disapponted in was the lack of real purpose in the progression and storyline. It was pretty 
 repetative and the AI boxing styles don't seem to vary too much either. I was really excited about 
 this title and I was bored after a few hours of play. I think this is like a lot of next gen games 
 that just rushed to be first with something pretty, but they lack depth.
  
  I also liked how you could change your physique by successfully completing the training events 
 between fights. I also miss the ability to choose theme music, fireworks, ring girls, etc.
  
  I expected more depth and what I got was a more beautiful, stripped down version of last year's 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KillerC15122
Rating: 4.5
Date: Mar 15, 2006 8:57 pm PT
Review:  Well this game will leave your eyes sore, graphically and price wise. I recently got this game 
 after buying the 360. I had Fight Night Rnd. 3 for original Xbox and let me say again no difference 
 except for the graphics. This round they decided to take out the ranking system and add a sort 
 of goal oriented career. Like fight 5 guys to get invited to the BK open and other goofy cheap 
 promo events. Controlling your boxer has always been a plus in the fight night series and is still 
 beautiful using only the analog for the punching and blocking/weaving. The major downfall is that 
 spend 20 dollars less and you have the same thing for XBOX. Environment and fighters downsized 
 graphically, but the same gameplay. EA needs to learn that next gen doesn't just mean graphics, 
 but gameplay as well. Like how about a true career mode where you have to stay in hotels, rent 
 apartments, travel to trainers around the world, work your way up in the gym, and so on. Make it 
 more open ended and explorable. Give some life to the game, we are far beyond the "arcade" and 
 should continue that way. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: prioritymail
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 15, 2006 3:13 pm PT
Review:  This game is another solid title in the acclaimed series, but it promised much more than it gave 
 me. 
  
  PROS:
  -Silky Smooth gameplay
  -Accurate player damage and fatigue
  -Excellent Graphics
  -Tight Controls
  
  CONS:
  -Mundane fighting experience after a few 
 rounds
  -One punch can change a fight (they gave this new aspect of play too much power)
  -Slow motion during knock out mode only helps the opponent dodge better
  -Same old style of round 
 2
  -recovering from a knock-down shouldn't be made physicaly impossible, it should only gradually 
 increase in difficulty rather than the game deciding which time you never get up
  
  You shouldn't be discouraged from buying this game if you are a fan of Boxing. It is still a very 
 well-made game. It only lacked in a few important places in my opinion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IKECHUKWU
Rating: 8.6
Date: Mar 19, 2006 7:43 am PT
Review:  I have rented this game for a few days and thought it will be brilliant. I have wanted it for a 
 very long time and i quite like the demo. When i did play the game though I played through career 
 mode which was crushingly repetitve at best. Even though the characters looked different all of 
 my opponents play in a very similar way. The A. I is poor at best and often tends to stand in one 
 place or move around without even attempting to punch. This is extremely frustrating and is my 
 main critisism for this game. The game is also to short as i managed to complete within a day on 
 hard difficulty.
  Multiplayer is where this game really shines though. It's really fun baeting up your friends and 
 purposely watching those bun crunching replays. It is also very good online although the game tends 
 to be pretty unbalanced and there are some lag issues. 
  Overall though this is a very good game with extraordinary graphics and sound. This game is worth 
 buying if you are a fan of boxing but if not i will give it a miss. 
  
  
  I GIVE IT 
  8.6/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rebjunior
Rating: 8.6
Date: Mar 14, 2006 6:38 pm PT
Review:  Good game. OK controls. But amazing graphics. I could go on and on about how amazing these graphics 
 are, they're that good. But the gameplay/controls do have some flaws. I suggest that you use control 
 style 3 if your a beginner. But 1 is a lot slower but very precise. Some cool things about this 
 game are there are so many things you can do. You can get endorsement deals, training, challenge 
 other fighters, have rivals, make other fighters retire and so much more. 
  
  some UPS and DOWNS about this game:
  + GREAT GRAPHICS.. simply amazing
  + Good steady/slow 
 controls....
  -But controls do get tedious and annoying
  -A lot like the other games... even with all the new things to do 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mocha360
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 5, 2006 2:25 pm PT
Review:  One of the best 360 games in my mind is out and i will be reviewing it. The first thing I need 
 to say is that this game has probobley the best presentation of any boxing game in history. The 
 graphics are unbeleaveble 
  with some fantastic player models and great lighting, gotta love the black and white fights, (that 
 means like no couler on the screen, it's not racist) .
  I was on the fence of giving the graphics a 9 or a 10 but becuase of the fixed camera positon (well 
 you can change it but it doesn't really change anything)
  and the unrealistic rag doll physics I have to give it a 9 but still ,fantastic! The sound is pretty 
 good it's got decent commentary and good music but they beep out alot of the cussin so that's kind 
 of a drag, but it has really good punching sounds. You can really hear and feel the pain that your 
 boxers in. The career mode is solid and it's good that at the begining they have really easy fights 
 to get you convidents up but it just get's kind of repeditave it's not as good as last years game, 
 the online is fantastic, almost completley lag free, one of the best human vs human games on the 
 360. Now the game isn't as good as last years game but it still is great! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fatam
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 13, 2006 6:56 pm PT
Review:  The Good!
  - Well first off the graphics are amazing, some of the best I seen.
  - The gameplay is tight and easy to learn.
  - Fun as hell taking your "create a fighter" online 
 to see how he holds up against other players chracters.
  - Easy to get ahievements.
  - Next to no lag online.
  
  The Bad!
  - The career mood kinda gets repetitive after a while.
 
  - You can notice sometimes the feet of the character going threw the mats, and seeing up the boxers 
 shorts you can see the mat through their shorts.
  
  The game is fun and is defintly worth a buy if you are a boxing fan, or just looking for something 
 new to add to your 360 collection, cause their isn't much out their as of now in boxing or fighting. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fallen_Zen
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 13, 2006 3:00 pm PT
Review:  I'm not really a sports fan, normally when there are championships on TV either in football, boxing 
 or anything related to sports I'm not interested in it. So it's no surprise I wasn't interested 
 in this game for the first time. But a demo was available on Xbox Live so I said to myself that 
 at least I can try it, cause I've seen some screenshots and was shocked by the quality of the graphics. 
 For the first time I wanted to play a sports game. Gameplay is simply fantastic, it's almost as 
 watching fight on TV with these outstanding graphics. Must have for all sports fans and all those 
 that do not like EA games (normally they're crap, same games every year) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: loogs
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 13, 2006 1:21 pm PT
Review:  IF YOU OWN AN XBOX 360 YOURE PROBABLY LIKE ME, WILLING TO TRY JUST ABOUT ANY GAME JUST TO SEE WHAT 
 THE GRAPHICS LOOK LIKE. THATS WHAT HAPPENED WITH THIS GAME. I USED TO LIKE BOXING A LOT WHEN MIKE 
 TYSON WAS KING, BUT WITH HIM BEING A MERE SHELL OF HIS PAST AND ROY JONES NOT FIGHTING ANYMORE 
 THE SPORT IS ALMOST NON-EXISTENT IN MY LIFE. ILL SIT DOWN AND WATCH ANY UFC EVENT BEFORE THINKING 
 ABOUT A BOXING MATCH. SO I VENTURED OUT TO MAKE FNR3 THE VERY FIRST BOXING GAME IVE OWNED SINCE 
 SUPER PUNCH OUT. ALL I CAN SAY IS IM FREAKING HOOKED. WHETHER ITS A LEFT HOOK OR A RIGHT HOOK IT 
 DOESNT MATTER. I CANT PUT THIS GAME DOWN. I KNOW ITS BEEN SAID BEFORE BUT EVEN IF YOU DONT LIKE BOXING 
 ONE BIT YOU WILL LOVE THIS GAME. IVE NEVER PLAYED A GAME THAT MADE YOU FEEL THAT ALL THE HARD WORK 
 YOU PUT IN TO MAKE YOURE CHARACTER BETTER PAYS OFF. THE TRAINING GAMES ARE GREAT, THE SOUND EFFECTS 
 ARE SICK, AND THE GRAPHICS, WELL YOULL HAVE TO PLAY THIS GAME TO BELIEVE IT CAUSE ANY SCREEN SHOT 
 THAT YOUVE SEEN WILL NOT DO IT JUSTICE. I HAVE ONLY ONE COMPLAINT AND IT COMES FROM THE AUDIO. THE 
 ANNOUNCING IS TERRIBLE. IT WILL MAKE STUPID AND CONTRADICTING STATEMENTS THRU OUT THE ENTIRE FIGHT. HOW 
 ABOUT THIS FOR EXAMPLE.60 SECONDS INTO ANY FIGHT THE ANNOUNCER WILL SAY THAT ONE PARTICULAR BOXER 
 IS PUTTING TOGETHER GOOD "ROUNDS" AND WINNING THE FIGHT HANDS DOWN. HUH? THE FIGHT JUST STARTED. ANYWAY 
 THAT STUFF DOESNT TAKE AWAY FROM THIS GAME AT ALL. IT JUST MAKES A GAME THAT COULD HAVE BEEN SERIOUS, FUNNY. YOULL 
 LAUGH AT THE THINGS SAID. ESPECIALLY YOUR TRAINER. ONE MINUTE HE LOVES YOU AND THE NEXT SECOND HES 
 PUTTING YOU DOWN. OH WELL NO GAME IS PERFECT. THE CAREER MODE IS GREAT. ESPN CLASSIC MODE WILL TAKE 
 UP YOUR TIME. AND XBOX LIVE IS VERY COMPETITIVE. I LIKE THAT YOU HAVE TO RETIRE YOUR BOXER IF YOU 
 WANNA USE HIM ON LIVE. BEFORE I GO I JUST REMEMBERED ONE OTHER THING. THESE KO PUNCHES CAN SOMETIMES 
 BE REALLY CHEAP IF YOUR FIGHTING LIVE AGAINST SOMEONE. IF THEIR SKILL IS NOT AS GOOD AS YOURS THEY 
 CAN STILL BEAT YOU WITH ONE PUNCH IF ITS TIMED REALLY WELL. NOT VERY REALISTIC AND VERY FRUSTRATING 
 BUT I GUESS THE GOAL IS TO AVOID THESE PUNCHES AT ALL COST. BOTTOM LINE GET IT. GET IT NOW... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Arob_2006
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 13, 2006 4:43 am PT
Review:  If you dont have this game go out and buy it, you wont be dissapointed. The game has amazing graphic 
 on xbox360. The opponents in the game are some of the best of all time. The general gameplay is 
 the best yet for the fight night series. I cant wait for the next game. Watch out for George Foreman 
 he has an evil left hook. Im still having trouble beating him. Im sure that soon enough I will 
 have mastered my skill and own that game. You dont want any of what I got cooking in my kitchen. 
 Any challengers... Ding Ding 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pyromaster14
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 12, 2006 4:24 pm PT
Review:  Fight Night Round 3 is the next installment to the popular fighting franchise.
  Now following up to the Xbox 360, the positive impact on this game hits as hard as it punches. 
 I had little anticipation for this but this actually turned out to be an outstanding game and is 
 one of the better 360 games ive played.
  Just in case if you have not seen any commercials or screenshots on this, this game looks incredibly 
 lifelike and amazingly realistic, this is as close to the arena as you would like to get. You can 
 set up any fights at any class with world-class boxers (Unfortunately, not Hilary Swank or Sly 
 Stallone lol) You can even set up historic fights like Ali vs Frasier. 
  The feature I was mostly glued to was the Career Mode. You create your own character, choose his 
 class and fighting style, and play mini-games to increase your stats, which are fun at first but 
 you'll get tired later on. You can buy gear such as trunks, gloves, mouth pieces, shoes, and even 
 your own special moves. Anyway Career Mode is really fun and I spent most of my time playing this.
 
  The only negative part to this is that controls are pretty hard to handle if you're new to this, 
 but over time, you'll learn to master it. Overall, I would recommend 360 owners to buy this game, 
 it's fun, detailed, and its a great game to boost your acheivement points. EA has done it again, 
 has found a new fan to the FN franchise. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xternal
Rating: 8.3
Date: Mar 12, 2006 10:49 am PT
Review:  Right, well at first i'd like to add that the graphics on this game are outstanding whether your 
 a ps3 fan or not. this game to the point really shows off the powerful ability of the xbox 360 
 to everyone, there are little things that add alot to it's gameplay and Fight night round 3 is 
 all-round a good game. I have invited people to join my union, i am going to be doing little discussions 
 on there such as, Fight night vs Dead or Alive 4, G. R. A. W vs COD 2 etc. etc. anyway, enough about 
 me let's talk about the game.
  
  Graphics:
  The Gameplay, can you fault it really? it's so real, as we know they're aim was to try and put 
 you into that fight with the fighters and make you feel as if you have to put alot of effort in 
 and as if you are fighting the match, they have succeeded, it was so good i was trying to dodge 
 shots in real life!, Also i really enjoy the fact that there is no stamina/power meter at the bottom/anywhere 
 on the screen so that you won't know if / when your gonna go into that sorta' drowzee mode. and 
 also there's no player-arrows/pointers above you to tell you who's who, it's straight out fighting 
 and it's really enjoyable, for boxing fans or people who want to see what the xbox can do, buy 
 this game. the gameplay really is an outstanding factor to fight night round 3.
  
  Graphics:
  Not much to say but good, it shows off the power in many ways, there isn't that much 
 to say because they are just plain awesome and it's well worth buying the game, it shows you what 
 the xbox 360 can do, so if your into fighting go get them tiger.
  
  Sound:
  Well.. on sound this is the point i go quiet..
  it's 'ok' 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cchhpp
Rating: 6
Date: Mar 12, 2006 9:55 am PT
Review:  Ok, I love this game, it's fun and online is cool. But with Fight Night Round 2, I saw a whole 
 lot more of things to do, for example, I liked to pick my ring girl, my music, etc. But with Fight 
 Night Round 3, all that I got (for $60+tax!) was only better graphics. I liked how you could change 
 your stance, punching and defensive style, but I don't think that that and better graphics was 
 worth $60, or even $50. There are some glitches in this game, for one I would punch someone during 
 a KO moment in the face with my elbow, and on the replay it shows my guys elbow way too far away 
 to even get a hit, but it does the sound effects and impact as if I did hit it. I love the Fight 
 Night series, but I just think that this was too easy to play (even on the hardest difficulty) 
 and was not worth $60. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: linkzelda3000
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 12, 2006 8:26 am PT
Review:  This game has the best graphics on the xbox 360. All the textures and environments are gorgeous 
 and actually feels as though your fighting in a boxing match. Using the analog stick to throw punches 
 feels as comfortably as using the buttons. The commentary during the fight is repetitive and can 
 get annoying but just turn the volume off the T. V and your good. Building a champ has many different 
 variations you can choose from and make your character look as you want it. This game is one of 
 the best boxing games and is a good one to own or rent. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sgrewal16
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 11, 2006 9:46 pm PT
Review:  Fight Night Round 3 is a great game for the Xbox 360 and shows off its amazing graphics. The fighters 
 are so realistic, the beads of sweat running over their bodies, the fact that there is no HUD adds 
 to it. You have to see your boxer's expressions and movement to determine when to go in for the 
 kill and this all done by the great visuals EA has provided in this game. But as Kudo would say 
 you need next gen gameplay with next gen graphics. 
  
  Comparing FN3 with FN2, the game is a lot slower, the boxing, the punches and the movement is at 
 a slower pace.... one would think this is bad but in actuality it is a good thing. It brings more 
 realism to the game and the haymakers are great thing to pull off (if u can pull them off!)
  
  The haymakers in FN2 were so easy to pull off and you could easily land 50 haymakers in one 
 match alone, which is of course not typical in the boxing world. In FN3, they made the haymaker 
 with a 'high risk, high payoff' system.
  
  Performing a haymaker takes time and allows your opponent to set up for a potential block, dodge 
 or the worst one COUNTER! but if you land one, it can really change the dynamics of the fight.
 
  
  I was in fights where I was easily losing the fight but by pulling off a FLASH KO haymaker... I 
 got back into the fight and won by a decision! :)
  
  The sound is great; the sounds of pain and aggression are pretty real. The commentary has its moments 
 but most of if is just a replay from FN2. The roster in FN3 is not as impressive as I thought it 
 would be (not having Tarver, Liston and other fighters was a disappointment) .
  
  The career mode does lack the feel of a growing boxer... its just a menu and all you do is sign 
 contracts. The rivals aspect is just really crap because all you do is fight the same guy over 
 and over again... and he's not really all that different from your other bouts (except he'll sneak 
 a few dirty shots every now and then!) . The one thing that was cool was the weigh in sequence where 
 your rival you knock you into the STUN mode after you checked your weight. That was the only unique 
 thing about the RIVAL mode.
  
  The career mode is long and if you play it on HARD... you will have to earn your wins so there is 
 some longevity in the career mode.
  
  The styles and customization is where the gameplay truly lies in FN3. You can customize a person 
 to have Ali's moves, Frazier's punches and Hopkins' defense....... you just customize your boxer 
 until you feel right about it and this is by far the best feature since there is an array of styles 
 and combinations you can use.
  
  Overall, FN3 is a great game, one of the better games the Xbox 360 has delivered but for the future 
 the Career mode should be emphasized giving it a more personal feel to it... almost like growing 
 pains so that you feel with your boxer and grow with as you progress. Other than that, keep everything 
 else and add more to the roster!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jared_Vegeta
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 4, 2007 10:43 am PT
Review:  I have always believed that Fight Night has been the best sports game ever. And it still continues 
 to be today. Fight Night Round 3 is just as fun as Fight Night Round 2. The reason this is true 
 is because the game play is almost identical. But this isn't necessarily a bad thing because the 
 game play in Round 2 was so solid that it continues to hold up in Round 3. There are a few things 
 you will notice about the game play. The haymakers have been slowed down a lot. They also use a 
 lot more energy as well. So you can't throw nothing but haymaker fights like you could in the last 
 game, whether it be for better or worse. Also, the jabs pack a little more punch than they used 
 to, making them slightly more effective. There are also the new impact punches. One of them puts 
 your opponent into a first person view where all they can do is block while you try and throw punches 
 to put them down for the count. The other is a haymaker that instantly puts them into the daze 
 mode. These are nice addition, but are very hard to pull off. The take a lot of time and, if countered, 
 leave you very exposed. With this being said, the new punches dont change how you play the game, 
 they are simply a nice addition. Overall, the game play seems to be a bit more balanced. One thing 
 that you will notice immediately is the new impressive visuals. The game looks so good that it 
 is almost creepy. There are also the cool replays that feature the face rippling effects. This 
 is also pretty cool. However, you can only see a replay when you score a knock down. And even then 
 it only shows the one punch used to knock your opponent down. It is really frustrating when you 
 are trying to show a friend the nasty flurry that led to the knock down but can't because the replay 
 doesn't capture it. Another disappointing thing is the games animations have largely remained the 
 same. There are only a few new getting up animations and they added a stomach knockout animation. 
 The game also features the same three training games as the last game, which is also a disappointment. 
 I'm still not sure why EA didn't add the unique training mini games that appeared in the first 
 one, but they obviously felt that their training games from Round 2 were good enough. There are 
 also a very limited number of rings, much less than the number of venues featured in Round 2. However, 
 the few locations they do have are very nice looking. A few other things that I find very annoying 
 is the clenching. I don't remember it being this bad in the last game. You can pound your opponent 
 to pieces, each time you putting him in a dazed state only to clench you and continue fighting. 
 Your opponent can then take you down. It is really annoying because you can put someone into the 
 dazed state like five times in a row, him clench you each time and come back and knock you out 
 to win. Basically, its way too easy and effective to clench and save yourself from going down. 
 Also, your cut man will make comments that aren't true. He will always talk about some nasty cut 
 that you have on your face. The only problem is that there are no cuts on your face. This happens 
 a lot. They also changed the cut man mini-game. Its still the same motion, but they took away 
 the meter you look at and try and synch up the control stick with. So youre now basically guessing 
 and once it starts healing green, then you try and keep that rhythm. Personally, I liked the old 
 system better. EA also felt it was necessary to strip the game down a notch or two. At the price 
 of great graphics, you only get three different ring women. You also don't get to edit your entrance. 
 Round 2 featured just a little bit of customization to your entrances, but Round 3 decided to scratch 
 this all together. Even that little bit would have been great. Its really a shame that I expect 
 any multiplatform EA title to have its next gen version stripped of content. Its really Round 
 3's solid game play and great graphics that come back and save the title and add the fun to the 
 Fight Night series. But seriously, they better start adding some new stuff to the next game, because 
 I'm not going to take this again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shujou
Rating: 7.2
Date: Mar 11, 2006 2:27 pm PT
Review:  so far, the 360's games have been feeling rather,"Old" and "Imported" from other generation consoles. 
 This is no exeption. I could easily say that the selling point is, like most games on the 360, 
 the graphics. The gameply is so bland and old compared to earlier versions. It just seems that 
 this was made for the graphical beauty, style and no substance. The sound is definently improved 
 over recent installments, and character models are the best the 360 has to offer. Live play is 
 extremley disapointing, and you may only get 6 hours of enjoyment for your 60 bucks. Overall, if 
 your looking for a game to look at its graphical glory, this may be it, But for anyone else, id 
 suggest you throw in the towel and find something better to do. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mjf_80
Rating: 6.7
Date: Mar 11, 2006 9:50 am PT
Review:  Hmm.... How can I put this review without sounding too critical or negative to all boxing-game fans?...
 
  
  Well.... Let's have a go at it, shall we?
  
  1. Graphics:
  
  Very much improved from Round 2, but, as it says in the headline, at the cost of gameplay. The 
 frame rate seems a bit "tacky" and gives the player somewhat feel of slowmo (maybe to give rookie 
 gamers the chance to get in the game, who knows...)
  The first 10 minutes in the game I was swooped away by the "smooth" graphics, but came to realize 
 another 10 minutes later that, even though EA has gone out to make a very realistic and lifelike 
 boxing game, you cannot escape the fact that fascinating display on the screen does not make up 
 for poor control. Never ever sacrifice gameplay to make better graphics!
  
  Shame on you EA..
  
  2. Gameplay:
  
  Here is where this gets tricky...
  The controls 
 have gone worse for each version that EA has let out. The best boxing control, in my opinion, was 
 back in Fight Night 2004. When Fight Night Round 2 came out, EA started to slope back on the controls. 
 I had small hopes on that they would have gone back to basics with Round 3, but my hopes were crushed 
 in an instant..
  
  So, what are we, the gamers, facing then? The character you control does as you tell him to (up 
 to a certain point) , I give you that, but, sometimes, somewhere, he does not always respond. Sometimes 
 your character might even do some weird automated punching when you least expect it.
  
  The control itself feels a bit tense and stiff. I begin to wonder if EA even bothered to take a 
 closer look at the gameplay when they laid it out..
  Trying to overcome your opponents in the ring, when your character suddenly decides to do automated 
 jabbing (without touching the buttons) , looks so incredibly painful to watch, that I rather turn 
 off the game, and try to control people on sitcoms with my tv-remote instead..
  
  3. Features:
  
  Well, this is probably the only thing that keeps this "ship" from sinking..
 
  Not keeping the gameplay at mind, EA has however done some improvements on the features. When 
 you sign a contract (choosing an opponent for a fight) is directly followed by training. Here you 
 get to choose a trainer that has certain specs, ex. speed training, strength, etc etc..
  The training part is pretty fun to do, and the sparring sessions are not included in the training 
 anymore, but merely as an advice-feature for improving your fighting skills (no more chicken-runaway 
 sparring partners, hooray!) .
  Creating a boxer is a bit more fun that usual. You get to form or disfigure the character as much 
 as you want, from an over weight punching machine to a skinny strengthless bonebag.
  
  Sum up:
  
  Even though my review may seem a bit harsh, I still like the game, even if it suffers 
 a few losses in gameplay, control and slowmo graphics.
  
  One thing I do miss in this game, that existed before in the series, is the ranking system. No 
 matter how many guys you beat up in FNR3, you have no idea of where you at in The List. Only when 
 finally you get a shot at the title, you'll know where your place is. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lord_of_Dark
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 10, 2006 11:34 pm PT
Review:  Fight Night Round 3 is an impressive and very addictive game to play. I have never played an actual 
 boxing game before other than Punch-out or Arcade style boxing games. I have never played a Fight 
 Night game either. I love boxing, and when i saw the screenshots and videos of the game on the 
 Xbox 360, I knew it was something special and different from other sports games. I have played 
 it since I got it. Create a Champ mode is just like the tiger woods creat a golfer modes in those 
 games, and I have created many different characters. This game is fantastic, but it is not without 
 it's faults. It tends to be sluggish in some points, loading is too long for a next-gen game (faster 
 loading times people!) , sometimes there is no sound when the trainers are talking to you, and finally, 
 the graphics tend to get screwed up sometimes if you are playing it for an extended period of time. 
 Some of these could have easily been found in beta testing of this game, but sometimes, you miss 
 things like that, and thats ok. But most importantly, the game is fantastic. If you want a good 
 sports game for the value of the dollar, buy this immediately. If you aren't really into boxing 
 or sports, don't play it, and why are you reading this review anyway :P
  
  8.8/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: adil91
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 10, 2006 1:47 pm PT
Review:  This game defines next gen. Awesome game with the best graphics ever (no really they are) . Ther 
 gameplay is very fun , but a little time to get used to by noobs. The create a boxer is fully fleshed 
 out too. Online is just a pleasure (by the way if you want to play me my gamertag is DevilMayKill) 
 This is a relief after the mediocre lauch of the 360 and is higly addictive. You really wanna keep 
 on playing again, and again. There are only abt 30 boxers which is kind of disapointing. After 
 all you will be playing this game for along long time. You can button mash but its not a good strategy. 
 Ai is a little to easy. Overall a great game and a must have for boxing fans all over (including 
 japan) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PSP360Gamr83
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 10, 2006 12:39 pm PT
Review:  I belive this is the first true next-gen game for Microsofts console. The graphics are amazing, 
 and gameplay is a little bit underrated. The soundtrack can get repetitive so get your best playlist 
 ready before you play this game. The game introduces many new features including new Hard Hitting 
 moves. The whole punching control revolves around the right thumbstick. After a while the game 
 gets really hard, i mean harder than Call of Duty 2 on veteran hard. If you change the difficulty 
 to easy, its almost to easy. I belive I did a Wednsday Night Fight on Normal and got killed pretty 
 much, then on easy i got about 7 K. O.'s on my opponent. Training before a match is prety entertaining 
 as you have mini-games like, weight lifting, combo dummy, Punching bag, and Sparring. Between Rounds 
 the game takes a page out of Trauma Center, your fighter gets cuts and swelling starts, but you 
 can either shoose to auto-heal, or used a couple tools to close up wounds and clean up bleeding. 
 There are some amusing parts, like the slow-motion replays for each K. O., and one match has the 
 Burger King. I am not finished with the game but so far it is another great game to add to your 
 collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AMaurerr
Rating: 8.6
Date: Mar 10, 2006 11:36 am PT
Review:  This game is amazing its the best sports game for X360, I mean it has its set backs but it stands 
 up to the reviews. The games graphics are incredible, seamless from ingame to cut scene. game play 
 is crazy keeps you on your toes and it makes you want to watch Rocky but at times it can get repetitive 
 if your good. the only thing i didnt like about the game was that they didnt have certain boxers, 
 for example The Iron Mike Tyson, Lenex luis, and Trinidad. As for every other aspect of this game 
 EA did a great job of delivering a great boxing game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nationyde5
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 10, 2006 10:09 am PT
Review:  The first thing that everyone will notice about FNR3 is the stunning visuals. The boxers look scary 
 realistic. And once you knock someone down, or get knocked down, you will be even more impressed. 
 But it not just the way the boxers look that sets this game apart, but its also how they move. 
 Each real life boxer moves like he would in real life. Ali and Leonard float gracefully around 
 the ring, while Jones Jr. does things like his cockfight stance, and when boxer get really tired 
 they slouch and move slower.
  Another cool thing is the stance and punch styles. Each one performs and fells different, but they 
 all control great. The total punch control system returns and is better than ever. the new impacts 
 punches that are high risk but yield high reward. The TPC system takes a little time if you are 
 new to fight night, but if you have played either of the first two, you will fell right at home.
 
  The cut man mini game returns, but it is easier than the one from last year. It allows for you 
 to get cuts and swelling under control quickly which is important because a ref will stop the fight 
 due to bleeding or swelling.
  The sound is great. Especially the sound of the punches. Each one really feels like it packs a 
 wallop. You can also hear the boxers breath harder when they get tired and the crowd gets into 
 the action at all the right moments. The commentary is good but it can get repetitive, and sometimes 
 you wont know which boxer the announcer is talking about.
  The career and create a champ features are really good. It even keeps up with rivals that you have 
 fought multiple times. You can change your boxer style between fights or sparing to find the combination 
 that fits you the best.
  I would have liked to have seen more boxers, such as Mayweather, Lennox Lewis, Fernado Vargas and 
 Shane Mosley, but other than that this is a great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EXxile
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 10, 2006 9:21 am PT
Review:  The third installment of Fight Night really does a K. O. to your mind once the game boots due to 
 its insanely lifelike graphics. These are by far, the best looking graphics on the 360 thus far. 
 Every detail on the body looks authentic, and you will notice you will even be able to spot the 
 actual pores on the boxer as well as freckles and veins. The game also offers the best gameplay 
 outta all the Fight Nights, though the game doesn't offer too much difference as far as gameplay 
 from Fight Night 2. If you remember how to work the right analog stick like a pro, then you will 
 stick with config 1, but as for me, I prefer config 3. Through career mode, you will either bring 
 a old boxer back to the ranks, or create your own champ from scratch. And when I say scratch, I 
 mean it. During create a champ mode, you can change everything to completely make your boxer your 
 own. I made mine to look almost just like me. And even with that, the graphics still pursue to 
 amaze me. The game sports no life meter or fatigue meter whatsoever. So you must rely on looking 
 at your opponent as well as yourself to see if they're ready to go. If your opponent walks at you 
 with his arms almost at his waist, while breathing heavily, then push yourself to keep gettin clean 
 shots and he'll go down. During the matches you also realize that damage is being dealt. During 
 time you see swollen eyes start to arrives, cuts exposed while bloods drips down from them and 
 sweat beginning to bead off them as the fight drags on. And the K. O. replay funtion? Awesome. When 
 it shows you knocking out your opponent or them knocking you out in slow mo, its simply amazing. 
 Seeing the fist slam into their face while their cheek ripples and blood and saliva spits from 
 their mouth has never looked so good. Whether your a boxing fan or not, everyone will find something 
 they like in this game no matter. This is my favorite sports game out, and definately the best 
 looking 360 game out so far. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HaloGod111
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 10, 2006 6:43 am PT
Review:  Fight Night Round 3 has to be the greatest boxing game ever made! This is by far the first true 
 next gen game for the Xbox 360. It has amazing graphics, addicting game play, excellent online, 
 and an amazing career mode. This is a great game to show off what your 360 can do, and a great 
 game to play with friends. EA has really worked on making it a more realistic boxing games limiting 
 the big haymaker punches, by making them easier to counter, but if they connect can really change 
 the fight. The career mode is great with a lot of verity like fights during the way ins, training 
 before matches, and different boxing matches like pay per view, with many belts to win. This game 
 is a true knock out and a must have for any Xbox 360 owner. And if youre still not sure about 
 it, go and download the free demo on Xbox Live, and see for yourself. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: txbagz4fun
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 7, 2006 2:52 pm PT
Review:  EA in these past couple years have really stepped it up in the boxing genre. Round 3 is know different 
 bringing the solid gameplay the series is known for packed with graphics that will blow your mind 
 away. See I played Round 3 for the xbox and xbox 360. The gameplay was pretty much the same a disapointment 
 since the 360 should have a least minor upgrades in that department. With that aside Round 3 has 
 about 3x the graphic difference on the nex-gen console which will keep you very interested for 
 some time. At the end Fight Night: Round 3 is probaly this best in the series and the best boxing 
 game ever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: clcougars33
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 9, 2006 2:45 pm PT
Review:  I have never ever been into sports games, but this was the one to change them all.
  
  I went over to a friends house and he had bought this game about 2 days prior to me coming over, 
 but anyways he started to show me.... I was blown away by the graphics, you would have to be brain 
 dead not to be.
  
  Then I took a stab at it..... I was hooked! we made a run to wal mart soon after that so I could 
 pick up my copy.
  
  this game is one of the addicting games I have played in a while, and a sports game at that.
 
  
  If you are a fan of the previous Fight Nights, this is a must.
  
  If you are not, it is worth renting for sure.
  
  I give it an 9.1 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: greydragon17
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 8, 2006 5:08 pm PT
Review:  Fight Night and other boxing given to us from EA sports have entertain us and by the way that Fight 
 Night Round 3 looks and play they will continue the trend.
  
  Fans of this series and of any sport games will be pleased to play this game as it is exciting 
 and fun. First thing to get out the way is if you have ever played Fight Night Round 2 then you 
 won't find anything really new from the one year older title as everything from that seems to appear 
 in this release from the career mode, create boxer to online fights with other players. But what 
 is new is the graphics baby! The GRAPHICS!!! The stunning look of this game could make you piss 
 your pants with excitement as you knock out your opponent with a haymaker that when you see the 
 instant replay you can see the drip of sweat shake from your opponents head... the stream of spit 
 and blood shoot out of the mouth. A splash of blood fade burst from the cheek or eyebrow... and 
 the ripples in the opponent face as the force of the blow makes them even uglier. It plain to see 
 that this title graphics are just one reason for the average gamer that probably don't even like 
 sport titles to rent.
  
  But as we all know graphic aren't the sole reason to get a game. The gameplay mechanics seem the 
 same a before for this title as any of the pass ones as it uses the analogs to move and to punch 
 if that is your style or use the buttons for that. And the triggers are use to lean forward or 
 back, block and use special power punch to do great amounts of damage.
  
  The fun factor is still there as it is fun to beat your opponent to a bloody pulp and for some 
 people getting beat to a bloody pulp is even fun as well just to see the characters face after 
 it looks like it met the end of a shovel.
  
  To make this review come to an end I say that this game deserves to be played and owned by the 
 true fans as it has tons of fun to offer or at least until the next boxer game is released. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rosh3000
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 7, 2006 6:16 pm PT
Review:  Personally, i'm not a boxing fan, but somehow this game sucked all gamers into the sport. When 
 I got the demo, I thought that we could try this game out, and it might be fun for about 15 minutes. 
 I spent a lot of time on that demo! I was astounded with the graphics and I was sucked into the 
 fun gameplay. Eagerly anticipating the game, I played the demo every so often. Once the game came 
 out, it was all that I had expected. The graphics were still amazing, and some major glitches had 
 been worked out. I must say though, there are some glitches regarding how the opponent falls to 
 the mat and sometimes the speech of the trainer. Sometimes the trainer will say i'm doing well, 
 and then switch to telling me how badly i'm doing in all the same aspects. I am still loving this 
 game though, and those minor glitches do not get in the way. The story mode is quite fun, and its 
 great to be able to create your own boxer and watch as he moves up the ranks. There is a mediocre 
 amount of variance to your different opponents, but after a while you can pick out how to best 
 attack the enemy. One thing that is fantastic is the player damage. The cuts are so realistic, 
 and blood will stream farther and farther down the player or opponent's face as time goes on. The 
 same goes with the swelling, you can see how it affects the player and how it changes the shape 
 of the face. All in all, this game is probably the best game out for the Xbox 360 to this date, 
 after games like GRAW, we shall see if it will stand the test of time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HeavysetHollis
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 7, 2006 4:45 pm PT
Review:  I have never ever been into sports games, but this was the one to change them all.
  
  I went over to a friends house and he had bought this game about 2 days prior to me coming over, 
 but anyways he started to show me.... I was blown away by the graphics, you would have to be brain 
 dead not to be.
  
  Then I took a stab at it..... I was hooked! we made a run to wal mart soon after that so I could 
 pick up my copy.
  
  this game is one of the addicting games I have played in a while, and a sports game at that.
 
  
  If you are a fan of the previous Fight Nights, this is a must.
  
  If you are not, it is worth renting for sure.
  
  I give it an 9.1 
::::::

::::::
UserName: phiphika1868
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 7, 2006 4:36 pm PT
Review:  This game is fun and has some excellent graphics. The online play is easy to match-up and takes 
 full advantage of XBOX Live. I really enjoy this game and find its value fair. XBOX Live is really 
 the best way to enjoy this game because the career mode is a little light; however, this is only 
 a personal preference. I also find Live to be where the best competition is. If you are not an 
 online player then the career mode is adequate. The fighting styles were a nice addition and the 
 fighters seem to match up well depending on your style of play. I would recommend this game to 
 anyone who likes sports games. You do not need to be a boxing fan to enjoy Fight Night. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Killocity
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 7, 2006 12:22 pm PT
Review:  By now, nearly everyone knows why people like the Fight Night series. It's all about lacing on 
 the gloves, stepping into the ring, and making hamburger meat out of someone's face. The previous 
 Fight Night introduced us to the Cut Man feature, which allowed the player to tend to his boxer's 
 wounds between rounds with a little interaction. It also showed us some very nice visuals and decent 
 customization options as well. However, since 360's launch, it seems like every "expert" reviewer 
 out there has it in for EA, with all of their sports titles recieving a basically "eh" or "better 
 on the original Xbox"-esque review. Many felt that Fight Night Round 3 would be EA's one shot at 
 redeeming some of the lost faith that has occurred since those launch titles. Well, EA may have 
 been losing on the score cards, but they stepped up and delivered the K. O. they so desperately 
 needed with FNR3. Here's how:
  
  Graphics: I'm at a loss for words. I don't rank games on graphics alone at all (the Gran Borismo 
 racing game series, for example, stinks I. M. O.) , but this one is nice. Sweat effects are unmatched, 
 and when you nail someone with that hook or haymaker and hear the impact, actually see their flesh 
 ripple as your glove meets their skull and leaves a trail of devastation for the world to see, 
 well... it's just sweet. Boxer models look great, as do the arenas. Facial expressions are priceless, 
 such as ducking a haymaker just in time and watching that "Oh S@#$" expression come across your 
 boxer's face. However, there are some glitches. With the hair cut I had on my created boxer, every 
 time he moved a certain way he would appear bald on the top of his head for a second or two and 
 then, as the animation shifted, he would magically have his hair back. Best way to describe this: 
 When jumping up and down before a fight, every time his feet hit the mat he'd glitch bald, then 
 when he jumped up, his hair was back. Small annoyance that grows on you so I just changed hairstyles. 
 Also, the boxers still fall awkward. It's somewhat a small thing, but if they could get some better 
 motion capture or something, it would be much sweeter.
  
  Sound: The smack of fist meets head has never been better. If you land a superpunch, you know it, 
 and not just because you're opponent becomes wobbly. For the most part, the trainer dialog is good. 
 It gets a little repititive, but not THAT bad. The announcer, on the other hand, is a double edged 
 sword. He calls the action great, but loves the same terms too much.
  
  Control: If you're already used to the punch control (using the right analog stick to control throwing 
 punches) , then welcome home. If you're not, it'll take maybe five minutes and you'll have it. Blocking 
 and countering are easy to do, but difficult to master. 
  
  Entertainment: OFFLINE, this game is awesome. Online, however, I can't stand it. Not because of 
 graphic issues or lag, but because of one hit K. O.'s running rampant. It never fails. The match 
 starts, the guy comes up and smacks you with the one feature I would love to see get removed from 
 this game, the Stun Punch. It automatically drains all your stamina and if you get hit again you're 
 knocked down. There's no talent involved... no special skill. Just one really cheap move and anyone 
 can win if they land it. Surprisingly, the computer A. I. offline doesn't use it.. ever that I've 
 noticed. And that's a good thing. Also, dealing with idiots who love to cheap shot and clinch and 
 run away or stand there and just counter everything isn't any fun either. Play the computer offline 
 and get the rounded boxing experience where you can actually trade punches and have a match worth 
 having.
  
  All in all, FNR3 is more of the same... and that's not a bad thing. It's gorgeous, it's fun, and 
 until you get the title, this game will have you hooked. And maybe even after. I see no reason 
 not to recommend a purchase, even at the $60 price tag. Comparing this version to the PS2 version 
 is comparing apples to oranges. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: makeyourself181
Rating: 8.3
Date: Mar 6, 2006 5:39 pm PT
Review:  Okay, first of all... don't expect anything especially revolutionary. This is the Fight Night we 
 have all come to love in the last 3 years with the total punch control. I suppose I will break 
 this down into separate parts.
  
  Graphics:
  Probably the most noticeable change from Round 2. Obviously it is beautiful. Blood drips down from 
 the nose and mouth in between rounds, which is really cool... maybe disgusting at times. The details 
 of the actual fighters is astounding right down to the tattoos and moles on each fighter. My main 
 complaint though is when you knock someone down, do they have to spit out an absurd amount of blood 
 each time?
  
  Gameplay:
  The most important element. There is nothing really new added to this game. The addition of the 
 "flash KO" isn't anything to necessarily talk about. If anything, the first person camera it goes 
 to is rather annoying if you are the one trying to knock the other fighter down. While in this 
 view while in the defense it is impossible to throw a punch, while you are forced to try to parry 
 or just block until you ride it out. Thats not all that bad. The problem arises in the offensive 
 mode of the first person camera. You aren't even IN your view, you are seing it from the other 
 guy's POV. This means you have to reverse the direction you want to move your body/which side you 
 throw a punch from. It is extremely annoying, and I really wish there was an option to turn it 
 off.
  
  One of the biggest problems I had with FN Round 2 was in the career mode. If I am a Welterweight, 
 I shouldn't have to be matched up against 6'4 300 lbs piles of dookie. Well, that problem has been 
 fixed (sort of) . There are no longer any butterbean esque body statures. BUT, you will find yourself 
 fighting guys that are about 5 inches taller than you, and about 50 more lbs than you. This may 
 seem like a minor quirk, but I just think it's kind of lazy programming not to make sure the user 
 is fighting guys in the same weight class if they aren't trying to unify the titles quite yet.
 
  
  Now, career mode in general. Although it really doesn't seem like it, I feel that this year is 
 a slight step back from last year's. The amount of custom trunks is down from last year. Theres 
 really no excuse for that. No rankings, even though it could be argued that this is more realistic. 
 And SHAMELESS promotion. You will quickly become annoyed by constant Under Armor, Dodge, and Burger 
 King advertisement (BUT... YES... The King is in the game, and after awhile you can have him be 
 your promoter. He will even come out to the ring with you) . It just seems ridiculous to have anything 
 really past Everlast being advertised. Yeah sure Under Armor could belong, but Under Armor is just 
 a huge advertisement sham in the first place. You can't customize intros anymore, but the intros 
 in general are cut short just to the fighter entering the ring. I thought this was weak, and a 
 big step back for actually establishing a good atmosphere.
  
  Controls are what you expect from Fight Night. I have to say that I like the addition of new fighting 
 styles and defense styles. Especially the addition of the Philly Shell. Which irritates me if I 
 fight someone using it.
  
  Sound:
  Nothing really new. Same sound effects from last year. Typical Fight Night EA Trax. Nothing will 
 ever be as good as the soundtrack from Fight Night 2004's soundtrack. You can't change your intro 
 music from the default song. Which is to say... kind of annoying. The announcer is great, even 
 bringing up the last matchup that you have had with your opponent, commenting on how the fight 
 was won by knockout or decision.
  
  Overall:
  Definately buy if you are new or old to the series. It may be worth a purchase by itself just because 
 The Burger King King is in the game. I guess all in all, I am disappointed with EA Chicago's lack 
 of TRUE innovation in the series. I mean... can we move forward a little bit more than adding a 
 single new punch mode (which isn't that great) and a few whistles and bells? Let us customize our 
 equipment more, how about custom music in the intros? And for god sakes, give us ROBES we can wear 
 to the ring. These little things will go a long way. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zonage007
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 6, 2006 5:31 pm PT
Review:  Now let me just say this and get it over with. Tis game is made to be played on and hdtv. If not 
 ur not gonna get the sound and graphics quality the 360 can give u. So don't rate this game low 
 just because ur on a crt and not an hdtv. Now this game rules. It looks tunning and the sound is 
 great. Online play is very competitive but most of the fights ive been in it lags at the beggining 
 for around 5-10 seconds. The career mode can and will get repetitive to some people but thats fine 
 with me cause i think its fun to verse people over and over again. Oh yeah, PLEASE buy this only 
 if u have a 360 to get the full gameplayout of it. Definite buy for those who have played the other 
 fight night games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VFA-102
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 6, 2006 4:10 pm PT
Review:  Well, a few pointers. You must master the parry counter haymaker. While you can get away with not 
 really using it early in the game, for the later fighters it is a must. Practice defense, or else 
 you will get rocked. Make sure your stamina is high for the later parts in the game where the opposing 
 boxer can take a lot of punishment so that you can hang in there without tiring too early. 
  With that said, there are some annoying sound issues. The announcer isn't always accurate and sometimes 
 the manager gives bad advice. 
  Other than that it is an outstanding game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ocdog45
Rating: 8.7
Date: Mar 5, 2006 9:24 pm PT
Review:  This game to me is only worth buying if you have an Xbox 360. Im not a fan of boxing games because 
 they drag out with the same thing over and over. Fighting and fighting to get to the top. And when 
 you get there (which will be a long time due to the game) you gotta defend it. How boring will 
 that get? Reply value isnt there to in my opinion. But the on line game play is great. If your 
 not use to the joystick fighting ability simply change the controller settings. Graphic are the 
 best but they over do it when you knock an opponent out. A quick touch of the buttons will fix 
 that. Have fun and enjoy the beat down. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BullDogSquad
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 5, 2006 8:51 pm PT
Review:  Oh, he is going to feel that one! And if you are playing the Xbox 360 version of Fight Night Round 
 3, you may feel every punch thrown in the game. The graphics take this game to a level that take 
 the fun factor through the roof. If boxing games are your thing the Xbox 360 may be worth the purchase 
 just to throw a haymaker and feel the thud of each punch. This game proves how Next-Generation 
 graphics can improve a great game to a classic. If you have an HD TV and surround sound at your 
 disposal the immersive visuals and sound will make you cry when you see your fight suck in those 
 loud and painful counter shots. The sweat shoots off each fighters face and the blood trickles 
 down showing the punishment you are inflicting or taking. This game is a must have for sports fans 
 and overall game lovers alike. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spazzx625
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 5, 2006 2:07 pm PT
Review:  Boxing is far and away my most favoritest sport. I think it's much more exciting to watch than 
 most sports and one of my favorite games of all time is Punch-Out for the NES. Needless to say, 
 this game is light years away from playing as Little Mac... And feels like the first batch of truly 
 next-gen gaming.
  
  Everyone has at least seen screenshots of the game. Yes, it really does look that good all the 
 time. Hell, it looks better in action than it does in screens. The boxers all look like real people 
 and they even act like they're real too. At times it doesn't even feel like you're playing, just 
 watching a fight on tv. There are some arenas that look better than others, and some of them do 
 take you out of the realistic experience, but overall the game will have your jaw on the floor.
 
  
  Character models are top notch for the boxers, and get slightly less detailed for your corner man 
 and then even less detailed for the crowd. The crowd is the one thing that really takes you out 
 of the experience, since they don't look or act realistically for the most part. But hey, you don't 
 pay good money to look at the crowd, do ya? Oddly enough, there are no referees at all, which is 
 kinda disappointing, but it doesn't really matter overall. The create a player mode is really dynamic 
 and lets you have a wide range of changes to make... My only problem is that they don't let you 
 pick Chicago as your hometown... What the hell is that?
  
  Controls are the same as the past two Fight Night's, if not better with the addition of the new 
 moves. It does take some getting used to, and it's hard not to want to throw haymakers the whole 
 time... but your boxer tires easily and will keep you from wanting the KO instantly. Blocking/parrying 
 is still kinda tough to do, and moving your boxer isn't as great as it could be, but they have 
 punching down to a science, so the rest is details.
  
  With the removal of the health bars and HUD all together, you rely on the announcers and cornermen. 
 This works fine for the most part, but you'll hear the same damn phrases over and over and over... And 
 they contradict themselves a lot. You'll be hearing how great you're doing and then the next comment 
 will be how terrible you're doing if you miss a punch or something. It gets old fast and at times 
 makes it difficult to judge how you're doing. Cornermen are the worst at this. If their first comment 
 is positive, the next one will tell you that you suck and vice versa. You still know how you're 
 doing, but there are only a handful of expressions.
  
  Everything else in the game is great. The learning curve is ideal and the training mini games and 
 between round mini games are fun and break the tedium of boxing. You have to have a strategy to 
 win, you can't just go in there fists of fury and expect to win. Every round is a battle. The game 
 is as close to a masterpiece as we've seen on the 360 yet... and I can only imagine this is a GREAT 
 start for the inevitable next 'round'. 
  
  Boxing fans, take note. This is the game you've been salivating for. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cooketh
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 5, 2006 11:14 am PT
Review:  After playing Fight Night and Fight Night Two (2005) , i was beginning to think that the series 
 would go for the "All-Madden" franchise by introducing lack-luster add-ons and sympathetically 
 identical gameplay. However, I was shocked to find that, after about an hour of playing, I was 
 addicted to the game for its astounding gameplay to match its superb presentation.
  The game comes down to three major pieces: Visuals, Presentation, and Control. The game NAILS all 
 three with enough juice left over to make for a fun create-a-character carreer mode. 
  Visually, the game is satisfying. The graphics engine is well built and the game feels like its 
 in slow motion half the time. I'm not sure why, maybe the developers locked the FPS at 30 or 40, 
 but the game feels so alive. The KO punches and sweat thereafter is breathtaking. The first time 
 you send your opponent to taste the sweet canvas you can't help but yell "Ohhhh" as you watch the 
 replay of that KO punch you delivered.
  The presentation of the game compliments not only the gameplay, but the visuals as well. Being 
 breif, the arenas in which you fight in look absolutely amazing, especially in HD. The viewers 
 on the side of the ring cheer you on as you taunt your opponent into making that fatal mistake 
 that may result in your victory. The commentators add to the game's presentation in that everytime 
 you nail your opponent with a haymaker you get to hear the commentators give out a big "Woah, he 
 did not see that one comin, and the ones you never see comin do the most damage!" 
  Finally, the controls of the game are what set this game appart from its predecessors. Using the 
 right analog stick to punch, swing, and jab is satisfying in that it allows you to make all your 
 movements and attacks flow together beautifully. It's because of these smooth transitions from 
 swing to swing that makes the game feel realistic and not like an arcade game you just spewed 50 
 cents into. 
  Because of such finesse and beautiful manipulation your given over your character, combined with 
 the amazing visuals and presentation, the game will be sitting in your 360 for weeks to come. And 
 for the record, I'm not a boxing fan what-so-ever, so if you like boxing and you follow the sport 
 then your going to feel especially at home with this game.
  EA did some good with this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: paulg55amg
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 5, 2006 11:00 am PT
Review:  Fight Night Round 3 is an incredible game. The Career mode is excellent and possibly worth playing 
 twice, once in a high weight class and then again starting in a low one. All though I love the 
 game I would suggest renting it rather then buying. The reason being is that although it is fun 
 once you beat the career mode theres not that much left to do. Going through ESPN Classic mode 
 takes up a little more time but really the game is only interesting for one or two weekends. Thats 
 about 15 dollars even with a snack instead of the 59.99 that they charge in stores. Even though 
 I would say its a game not to buy I would also say its one of the best sports games out on 360 
 right now, so defiantly go and rent yourself a copy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fisticuffs
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 4, 2006 10:04 pm PT
Review:  This game is easily one of the greatest games of all time. The look, the feel and the realism is 
 breathtaking.
  A buddy and me had been playing the demo soon after it was released on Live for the 360 and we 
 were already hooked to it before the game came out. The demo alone gave more depth and addiction 
 to me than most full games have so picking the full game up the week it came out was a no brainer. 
 I called my buddy while I was on the way to the store to let him know I would have it and we made 
 plans to meet that night. We opened the game and got so into it we played 11 hours NON STOP! I 
 had never had that experience with a game before. The great thig is that we have meet for bouts 
 again and again and we only keep having better bouts because each time we play the game and use 
 different boxers and such we always find new depths of the gameplay and one up each other in different 
 ways. This game makes you grow.
  I also enjoy the single player as well but the vs mode with big name boxers like Ali, Frasier, 
 Holyfield and the like is the way to go when you have a friend nearby or Xbox live.
  Once again I am shocked by Gamespots low review- but I really shouldn't be by now. I can see how 
 some might dislike some of the "advertising" which is placed in the game but I personally didn't 
 mind it and still think that such politics and personal tastes should not get in way of a professional 
 reviewing the game and I would bet good mony that is what happened here if the truth were known. 
 This game on a high def tv is just an amazing experience and totally blowed me away. The best 60 
 bucks I ever spent- or at least the best money spent on a video game since halo 2.
  Just awesome. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rob3nelson
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 4, 2006 9:44 pm PT
Review:  Fight Night Round 3 for the 360 is simply the best boxing game available. That's not to say that 
 it's the best boxing game that ever could be made. Far from it. But, I've played Fight Night 1+2 
 for the XBox and this is much better. Try playing this for a few days, then go back to playing 
 the xbox titles. You'll know then what I'm talking about. You'll never want to play another boxing 
 game again. Fight Night 2 was good. Really good. In fact, it beats Round 3 in game play depth and 
 options available. This is the only area where Round 3 for the 360 falls short. You're stuck with 
 only a few modes and their pretty shallow. It seems as if the developers focused more on the graphics 
 and animations. And, this is where this title shines. So much so, that it leaves you thinking that 
 this is how boxing games should always have looked like but never did. While not perfect, if this 
 is an indication of where sports titles are headed, the next generation is here indeed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: juicymongoose
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 4, 2006 7:36 pm PT
Review:  Fight Night has not had a bad game so far. And this new addition to the series doesnt ruin its 
 perfect streak. Fight Night Round 3 brings all the stuff to the table that Round 2 brought except 
 with alot more flavor. The controls are solid, the graphics are the best on the Xbox 360, and it 
 has an extremely deep create a character mode. I liked the Legends and Rivals idea, but wish they 
 would have put a bit more effort into those two parts. The only problem I had with Fight Night 
 Round 3, was that near the end it sinks into you that it is getting a bit repetitive. It isnt a 
 big deal, but if they would have added a little more variety to the career mode, than this game 
 would have succeeded even more than it already has. So, I would highly recommend this game to fans 
 of the series, or boxing, and even to newcomers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alocacoc
Rating: 8.7
Date: Mar 4, 2006 5:24 pm PT
Review:  Lets state this right off the bat, this is the best boxing game I have ever played... well except 
 Punch Out! but lets not get into classic terittory here ok. What EA has manged to do is implement 
 the fine nuiances of boxing into the virtual ring with flying colours. The graphics are the best 
 I have ever seen, period, and the only reason why Gamespot docked it a point was most likely collison 
 detection... not so much the glove to the face but the shorts blending into the legs and guy's 
 feet lost into the mat. The music is sublime with a few good hip-hop beats but most are forgetable. 
 The SFX are awesome and the announcer does a god job of eliminating the need of a HUD by saying 
 what you need to hear. The career mode is my biggest gripe as it s repetive and so much more could 
 of been done (imagine Smackdown story-telling!) . I didn't get the chance to get online but I heard 
 it's pretty good wth nothing special. Overall, it's an okay sports game but the best boxing game. 
 The graphics will blow your mind and the gameplay will keep you glued to your set. Pick it up! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cbence12286
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 4, 2006 4:53 pm PT
Review:  After unlocking all 8 achievements, which add a lot to your gamerscore, you have some more work 
 to do. The graphics are amazing for a first generation 360 game. While watching it being played 
 on Xbox Live, I noticed that there was not a lot of lag. EA really did a great job with the different 
 base stances and mixing it up in the actual fight from switching from whatever you choose to South 
 Paw. There really isn't anything bad to say about this game. It truely is the best looking game 
 out there. Playing without the health bar, it's kind of hard to tell how your boxer is really doing. 
 You can though change it in mid fight if you don't like it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: abukhara
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 4, 2006 2:42 pm PT
Review:  There is a lot to say about this, one thing is Graphics this is one my Best looking games that 
 I have ever played and if you Have an HDTV you will Satisfied to the MAX! Another thing is the 
 Gameplay, Wow weezy this kinda of Gameplay reminds me of WWF No Mercy on the N64 where you can 
 just push a little on the joy stick and giv the amount of Pressure on the punches or hold more 
 back and front like a real life swing and make it harder every time, realism is superb how you 
 can tell if your Character is Tired or hurt.
  
  Now lets talk a little about the Negative things on this game one thing is the the Commentary dang 
 you just want to say SHut the F*** up cause they keep on saying the god damn thing, another bummer 
 is cant put custom sound tracks for your created player which kinda sux, and they also have some 
 cheesy lame Nicknames like "The Cooler" WTF is that. and when your taking a hard punch and the 
 opponent blocks you, your hand kinda goes down and takes too long to go back up, your moving wayyy!!! 
 toooo slow, which youll never see that in a real match. 
  
  in Conclusion this gme is a good game to play with another friend or Via Xbox Live since you can 
 hear them suffer lol. And the Details on the Creat a Champ is so good lots of stuff you can do 
 to make them look like you or you Fav Ego 
::::::

::::::
UserName: element9867
Rating: 8.7
Date: Mar 4, 2006 10:08 am PT
Review:  I picked up a copy of Fight Night round 3, about 2 weeks ago. As soon as i poped in the isk i was 
 instanly blown away by the graphics, this seems to be the main build of the game. Then i started 
 to train and learn how to play. The control sceem is ingenious, you use the right analog stick 
 to throw punches. Blocking and avoiding head blows involes the same analog stick combined with 
 tyhe tiggers. The games pretty fun off the get go. Even if you have never played any of the other 
 fight nights. The only downside i would say is punching speed. If you arnt big on speed in this 
 games you will get owned by the little quick guys. In bettween every match you get to train in 
 1 of 3 mini games. Also loosing is like a kick in the balls. You really get down on yourself. I 
 played through several tournaments, but then some little counter punching guy came along and i 
 got owned. Its the worst feeling. I almost turned it off, for i was so ashamed with myself. It 
 really hurts. The matches are really intense. In between rounds id have to drink some water, or 
 shake off. You get really into it. If you are a boxing fan, then dont buy any other games. If you 
 are considering to get this game, id say if you like fighting games, or just a plain challege the 
 look n further. 
  Fight Night round 3 is the game for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Funny_bunch71
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 4, 2006 12:14 am PT
Review:  I am not a big fan of boxing games but I found myself drawn to this one from the second I played 
 the demo and soon baught the game upon release I found there were afew minor graphical glitches 
 but nothing really big to ruin game play and its great how you get to train your character and 
 build him the way you want. I found each fight was like an adventure and you told you own storey 
 throughout the game as you smashed your way up the ranks beating rivals and champs so in my opinion 
 this game is fantastic and shows some true power of the xbox 360 and is really a game to show off 
 to your friends. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Baller_023
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 10, 2006 5:41 pm PT
Review:  This game just has so much value, the online, the ESPN classic rival matches, and my favorite was 
 the career mode, i mean it jsut kept me glued to the tv for hours and hours at a time, it helped 
 me understand boxing so much and has gotten me so much more intrigued with boxing and its history. 
 One setback was EA Chicago put reputation of a boxer before the achievements of a boxer, like Mike 
 Tyson, another person I would've like to see was Lennox Lewis. I can't think of anymore boxers 
 I would've like to se because I don't really know anymore boxers because I am not a huge boxing 
 fan until after this game. This game really id say is one of the best games you can get the 360 
 right now and the best sports game for the 360 for sure. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: phoenix14
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 3, 2006 9:21 pm PT
Review:  I own all three titles of the fight night series, and I can say that this is the best one hands 
 down. If you enjoy boxing or just hurting people this is the game for you. I like the fact that 
 if you use the buttons you dont get the full power of the punches, ya it sucks for people that 
 use the buttons but for the people that actually use some skill and use the joy stick it's a lot 
 better. Any one can stand back and randomly press buttons. The graphics on this game are hot, and 
 the career mode is deeper then the first two put together. The only thing I dont like about this 
 game is the cuts. I dont know to me they look kinda weird and I also dont like the fact that when 
 you get a cut on you lip or your nose you cant do anything about it. But everything besides that 
 is great... do yourself a favor and buy this game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xmIkE22x
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 3, 2006 4:27 pm PT
Review:  Visually, Fight Night Round 3 is one of the most impressive Xbox 360 titles that I have played 
 yet, thanks mostly to the high-resolution boxers. The animations are smooth and fluid, but there 
 are only a few minor details worth mentioning. When you knock your opponent down, occasionally 
 part of his foot will disappear into the mat. There is also some occasional pop-in with the ropes, 
 and when you knock someone in the mouth the blood looks a bit fake, but none of these take the 
 excitement out of the game.
  
  The knock-down replays return from Round 2, only this time around a stiff blow will send slow-motion 
 ripples running through an unlucky boxer's face, which never gets old. You can hit the X button 
 over and over again to watch different angles of a knockout punch, and each time the graphics continue 
 to amaze me. 
  
  The graphics are amazing, but overall I am not a fan of the overall variety of fighting moves. 
 It seems to me that it is a very colsed game that only focuses on the fighting, which I can see, 
 but adding a few mroe features into the game I think would make the game a lot better
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: rsmith124
Rating: 7.2
Date: Mar 3, 2006 4:04 pm PT
Review:  When i first started to play I thought WOW its about time we get to see graphics for the 360! But 
 after awile the graphics began to not hold the game up. I hope I am not sounding to negative on 
 the game, because so far its the best game for the 360,,,,,,,,,,, at least until graw comes out 
 in 5 more days....... I wish I had not spent the 60 bucks on it. While I am thinking about it WHY 
 are games sixty? The game play has not changed so why are they charging more!!! The answer I am 
 sure you already know!! ( (Because they can!!) ) so I say stop buying the games and only rent them!! 
 Unless of coarse its GRAW... buy your favorites but stop letting them control us like cattle. Sorry 
 to get off coarse. The play by play sometimes is incorrect. The announcers say wrong name all the 
 time. And after you play for awhile the game loses its effectiveness..... if you learn how to jab 
 and cross or jab and uppercut then the game gets kinda simple. I ended up becoming bored with the 
 game after about 10 hours. So my reccomendation is to rent it first and you will probably stop 
 there unless you are a boxing fan than this game is truly the best game out so far!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: poporing123
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 3, 2006 1:25 am PT
Review:  honestly, the demo was BAD ASS. almost a perfect demo. cause it was glitchy and missing things, 
 but had enough for me to play over and over again.
  
  i got the game and it turned out to be 5 times better than the demo. since im new to fight night. 
 i didnt know what was old or new. so experiencing everything for the first time was extremely fun!!
 
  
  this was easily the best game ive played in a while....
  untill...... i beat career mode in a few days.... and found out there was nothing left to do. 
 
  AI was ok, its very simple to beat the computer, because each computer fights the same. a good 
 suggestion to the EA is maybe create different AIs so they concentrate on different areas or block 
 and punch more. aggression, bbla bla bla.
  online is fun, but its either i play someone way better than me, or someone so unskilled that it 
 wouldve been pointless to continue playing.
  
  "play now" mode is great. choose who ever play who ever. make your own characters. all the works. 
 but after a while i begin wishing i had a larger choice of characters without having to spend 30minutes 
 plus making a new one. like tyson, foreman, etc. you know more legends.
  i may be asking for a lot.
  
  dont get me wrong i love this game.
  
  its the BEST GAME 
 RENTAL. im serious tho. 
  single player is great for a few days
  and multiplayer lasts as long as the alcohol. lol
  
  so go rent it, get a bottle of something, 
 gather up the boys, hook it up to the sound system and turn up the bass.
  cause everytime i do that, everyone goes crazy. but otherwise... just play online and hope you 
 get a equal match.
  
  
  
  ps. maybe my friends just suck at the game. hahha 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mattpoulin
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 2, 2006 9:30 pm PT
Review:  it is simply the best boxing title ever made with increble graphics an slow down replay for the 
 ko time and the punch look like to be reel impact with great sound on dolby system home theater 
 the presentation for the beginning of all fight are very reel and you can customize your player 
 to the body type at the kind of face .. decals tatoos, color skin and upgrade, all sond effect amd 
 music fit all the game, a very good game to play solo or if you want to spend a very good moment 
 with your friends. The game are not easy and not to hard just at a good level except if you play 
 a very difficult mode.. thanks to EA sports 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Icy-X
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 2, 2006 5:17 pm PT
Review:  Lets start off with the graphics.... Simply amazing! Any one with eyes can see that. First day 
 playing this when it came out I would of gave the visuals overall a perfect 10/10, but after playing 
 it for as long as it has been out, I've noticed some minor things wrong visually. Like sometimes 
 punch goes through their head during the replay. Some times the ripple effect on their face doesn't 
 make sense for where you hit them. Just pretty much little stuff like that that doesn't really 
 effect the game much. Although one kinda big (or medium atleast) negative visually is that you 
 don't really see any swelling damage. It is like either the eye (s) are open or closed, but you 
 don't actually see swelling. All that aside this is the best looking game to have ever come out. 
 Want to see next gen? You need to check this game out.
  
  The gameplay... Fun, kinda easy for veteran players wich makes the career mode go by too fast. 
 In a couple days of playing you could finish the career mode and unlock every single thing leaving 
 all there is online play really. Back to the career mode though... You start out as an amature 
 and work your way up to fight for the Amature belt. Win that then you go pro and you fight in multiple 
 sponsored fights including Burger King for one and even get to see The King! Well you win these 
 sponsor fights to unlock the achievements getting the 1000 gamerscor points rather quick and easy. 
 After those you work your way up fighting for one title, switch weight class and fight for that 
 title, switch weight class again and fight for that title, fight for another title, and another 
 title, all this while having many repeatative "Rivaly" fights with a few different fighters and 
 eventually at around age 38-40 you'll be ready to retire. Really not much to it and not worth going 
 through a 2nd time for no reason.
  
  Anyways as I said after unlocking every thing and finishing career mode once, wich is a pretty 
 short process, all there is to do besides play with friends or against the AI in "Play Now" mode, 
 is to go online and fight it out. Online plays very smooth for the most part. Only experienced 
 a lot of lag fighting against one person. Most the time it will play just fine or maybe just a 
 little lag with a hiccup here and there, nothing too bad. All in all it plays really smooth and 
 it is really easy to jump right into a fight. Seems like there is always 80+ people on. More so 
 200 or 300+ players online at all times except real late at night.
  
  OK what about the gameplay mechanics? Well it is very similare to Fight Night Round 2 if you played 
 that. If so you'll be right at home. Although the haymakers are slower so you players that liked 
 throwing haymakers all day need to learn how to use the jab and hooks. There are a couple new punches. 
 First the Flash KO punch wich is a huge haymaker to the head that if it connects will drain all 
 of your oppoents health down and set them up to get knocked down if you can land another good blow 
 to body or head. This punch can be scouted pretty easily though and if you miss or have it blocked, 
 it uses a lot of your energy. If it gets parried then it leaves you open long enough so the other 
 player can do the Flash KO on you instead. Just be careful. (Tip: Don't try to go for it a whole 
 lot.) The other new punch is the Stun Punch. It is a different kind of huge haymaker to the head 
 that throw the opponent into a first person view. You continue to try to hit them and knock them 
 down as they try to parry your punches from the first person view to stay standing. These two punches 
 can really help a player out if down on the cards late in the fight and know you much get a KO 
 to win.
  
  Audio of this game is good. The soundtrack is pretty good and fits well with the game. Announcer 
 sounds pretty good and good commentary. Although often the commentary will get cut off in the middle 
 of saying some thing like after a knock down during the replay.
  
  OK so is this game worth getting? Well it kinda depends. If you have XBL and plan to play it a 
 bit online then yes it is as it should last you a good time. If you don't got XBL and play by yourself 
 and not with friends family very often, then this maybe better as a rental as you may finish it 
 and maybe even get bored with it in a week. As long as you got others to play with, this game could 
 last you till possibly the next one in the series. So it depends on your situation.
  
  Overall this is a very fun game. If you got an Xbox 360, XBL, and like boxing (or atleast don't 
 hate sports in general) , then you should get this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thechosenone827
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 2, 2006 4:21 pm PT
Review:  Ladies and Gentlemen EA has delivered Next Gen graphics to the Xbox 360 in Fight Night Round 3. 
 Most games have looked great on the 360, but nothing compared to the incredible visuals in this 
 game. When you play your first match, you will be amazed by the graphics, it looks like you are 
 watching it on TV. The gameplay is very good as well with customizable controls if you don't like 
 the total punch control with the right thumb stick which I don't. There are all the different weight 
 classes and plenty of achievements which are pretty easy to get. The online play is great, and 
 is where the replay value truly is. All the talk of the 360 games not looking next gen enough need 
 to end now. I can easily tell you this is one of those games you have to own to show off what your 
 360 can do and will keep you entertained for hours especially online or if you have friends over. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Trunks35
Rating: 8.4
Date: Mar 2, 2006 12:29 pm PT
Review:  FNR3 is a great game for the 360. It has easy to learn controls and the graphics are great... well 
 most of the time. The one thing that annoys me about this game is the "blood". When you see it 
 fly out of your mouth it looks like silly string. Also alot of the time peices of the boxers body 
 go throw things like when they fall on their knees their shorts stay stiff while there legs are 
 bent back and when you fall on your back your arm goes threw your chest. But dont get me wrong 
 this is a very fun game with losts of playback. A great game to have with some friends over. I 
 reccomend this game for the 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: buffbilly
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 2, 2006 5:52 am PT
Review:  There is so much to say about this game that can summed up in a short review. If you have played, 
 and enjoyed either of the previous Fight Night games, then this game is what you have been waiting 
 for.
  The graphics are the best the 360 has saw to this point. Also, for the first time in a sports game, 
 the crowd actually looks like a crowd.
  EA has left the gameplay alone for the most part, which is great because Fight Night is famous 
 for great gameplay.
  Gamespot likes to complain about sponsership in games, but it feels right at home and this game 
 and adds to the already perfectly done boxing feel.
  One minor complaint about this game is that it does seem to get a little repetetive in the career 
 mode, especially if you are pretty good at Fight Night games. However, you can take it on live 
 and get a different experience for every fight. 
  If you are thinking of buying this game, buy it. Alot of the 360 games are more shallow that this 
 game so you shouldn't feel cheated. Enjoy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: squirelrunner
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 1, 2006 6:33 pm PT
Review:  The boxing genre, is an empty one compared to most others, YES im talking to you WWII and GTA clone, and 
 lets face it boxing videogames arn't going to far. Now though boxing fans can celebrate and realize 
 the boxers dream has come true! This is the best graphics ive seen ever! especially fora consel 
 game. The controlles are simply great. The punches are mainly controled with the analog stick. Sounds 
 difficult, but it's acually very well done, and also you have your super punch. On screen displays 
 are NO WERE in this game, but dont worry cause thats when next-gen's got your back you see the players 
 health and fatique by just looking at him by sweet, and listining to, hard panting. Fighter's tire 
 out by punching to much, moving to much to fastand more, it'; s simply realistic and fantastic. FightNight 
 doesent come without problems, the announcers get old and repetative, so do you'r coaches but they 
 give great, and very accurate advise. Also you can relive classic fights from the good ol' days 
 of yesteryear. Also the creat a boxer mode is extremely detailed you can even ajust his scalp, and 
 forhead who cares but it's nice. Take that TonyHawk! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: billymbadass
Rating: 7.4
Date: Mar 1, 2006 6:26 pm PT
Review:  Good solid game, gets the whole room involved. The music leaves very much to be desired. The overall 
 gameplay feels a little slow and sluggish at times.
  
  This game definetly the best looking xbox 360 game thusfar. The animations of the fighters getting 
 knocked out are superb.
  The online mode is very full of great fighters and it is pretty easy to find a quick fight (unless 
 you are 0-10 like myself) .
  
  A solid title just wish it were a little faster and had a little deeper career mode.. Would like 
 to have seen more venues, and more options on how to buff up your boxer.
  The minigames are ok but there should be more of everything except the horrific music.
  I would 
 love to see more fighters (hello where is Mike Tyson or even Rocky for that matter.)
  Also, it would be nice to use your career mode fighter online. Although this may make the fights 
 very one sided it would be a nice addition.
  
  Load screens and bad music will drive you insane but this is definetly a jump in the right direction.
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: meetmike13
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 1, 2006 6:20 pm PT
Review:  I must say I have not ben to pleased with my 400$ xbox 360 purchase. Yes there are games but not 
 anything that I am really interested in. I have rented and tried almost every game, and when I saw 
 fight night I said another so so game. Boy was I wrong.
  This game is very cool. It also cushioned some of the 400$ blow. I don't even really like sports 
 sims that much, but I love fight night. It seems a little hard at first, but after a few fights you'll 
 be throwing haymakers, upercuts, and 1,2 combo's with ease. That's the beauty of it all, it's very 
 simple but also very deep at the same time. You will not only use your fist to out box your opponent 
 but your brain to out think and to stay one step ahead. Which can be a challenge because even the 
 computer seems to have really good AI on normal. If that's not enough take the fight to xbox live 
 to box people from all over the states.
  Graphics wise I think its the graphical showcase of the 360, and just a glimpse at things to come. The 
 boxer's look more real than ever, with realistic muscle movement, and great lighting. Nothing looks 
 better than beating the crap out of your opponent and then looking at his busted nose and cut eye.
 
  If you need a title to hold you off till whatever it is you are waiting on, and a good reason to 
 own a 360 this game is good for both and more reason's. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LTomlinson21
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 1, 2006 5:41 pm PT
Review:  I first played the demo of this game when it came out and I was amazed. So I knew this game was 
 a must get for almost every person. Now I am not the biggest boxing fan, but it's still pretty 
 cool, but when a game can sway you into purchasing it, you know it's the real deal!
  
  First off let me talk about the graphics. They are purly amazing. Sometimes I almost think that 
 the players are real. All the motions and blood, and the player models are very good. I haven't 
 seen a game with this good of graphics yet.
  
  The gameplay is pretty good. It is really fun, especially leraning different combos for certain 
 players. Though at times it gets somewhat boring because you eventually feel like your playing 
 the same game over and over. But multiplayer is great, just being the living hell out of someone 
 makes you feel great, and just get up and shout!
  
  The sound I would have to say is good too. The punches and players grunting sounds very realistic, 
 and it makes you cringe when you hear a guy get popped really hard, right in the mouth.
  
  The value of this game is very good. Not only is the season very fun, but online is what makes 
 it great. Without online it wouldn't have much replay value but because it does, then there's no 
 problem. 
  
  One of my favorite parts about the game is when your fighting online, and you have had a bad day 
 and feel like beating the crap out of someone, this can relieve stress. I just love punching someone 
 and keep knocking them down! It's so fun!
  
  If you own a 360 I highly suggest you get this game, or you will miss out on a great one, especially 
 one with amazing graphics. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: juraii
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 1, 2006 9:58 am PT
Review:  The hype in this game is what you should believe especially if you have a hi definition Television 
 this is one of the few 360 games worth having right know at this moment. the 3 diffrent pull punches 
 you have on the joystick is a great change because it turns into an accual boxing match and not 
 a slog fest like the one before it round 2 this change in this one if really for the better. Life 
 without the hud is great, since the game seems so real you can really tell by looking at your boxer 
 how tired he is. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: icspeedracer
Rating: 7.8
Date: Feb 28, 2006 10:53 pm PT
Review:  I've spent some time with the game over the past few days (renting it through the gamefly service) 
 and what the final product is is not too far from what was available for demo on Xbox Live.
  
  Gameplay: The game has excellent controls, is very responsive and life like to how each fighter 
 would be able to act, and the HUDless gameplay is very well done. When the players boxer gets a 
 good beating from an opponent their speed is affected and it's easy to notice when the punches 
 aren't moving as fast and hitting as hard. The player has a lot of ways to approach each enemy, 
 but there is always one way an opponent can be opened up and it's just a matter of the player being 
 attentive to the oppenent style as well as being patient. You can just button mash, but you might 
 not always win doing it.
  
  Graphics: The boxer models are some of the best looking graphics anywhere. The realism is fantasic. 
 The three negatives in terms of graphics that I've noticed and are a little annoyed by include: 
 foot twitching that happens sometimes when boxers are knocked out on the floor (should have been 
 fixed before the games release) , bleeding on the face and the spirt/blood that boxers spit up don't 
 match up to the quality of the skin textures and other factors of the player models, and finally 
 the cloth animations for the shorts show clipping issues and also don't seem to match the quality 
 of the other graphics. The places the match take place in have great atmosphere, which leads me 
 to the next area of my review...
  
  Sound: The use of sound is crutial with this HUDless boxing game... button mashing or just simply 
 trying to make too high a punch combo will make your boxer sound out of breath when throwing punches. 
 This effect also occurs when the player is beat up pretty bad. The one negative I've seen in the 
 360 version is that there are some audio glitches that seem to have made it through EAs QA... some 
 times the wrong boxer is said to have lost the fight (happened numerous times in the few days I've 
 played the game) and the announcers comment that a player is fighting great when they've been knocked 
 down and not involved in the round at all.
  
  Value: At $60 I feel this game is slightly overpriced due to the negative noted in my review. Since 
 current gen FN3 games are going at $40, I don't feel the need to buy this game. It's a great game 
 to rent when people are over or to play alone or online from time to time, but I wouldn't pay full 
 price for this game. EA has to learn that they aren't having as big sales numbers as they like 
 to see not only because there aren't as many 360s out in the world as they would have liked to 
 have seen, but it's also the fault that even now their games are being rushed to meet shipping 
 dates. They expect people to pay top gaming dollar but in my view short change them with the quality 
 of the product they ship. Sorry to rant on EA, but to me it affects the value of their titles... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: robminor47
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 28, 2006 8:05 pm PT
Review:  This game has so much to offer!! First, u can go create ur player generally or in career mode and 
 make him look what ever u want. Then play as him in an exibition fight or experience the career 
 of a young upcoming boxer (u also can relive the life of ur favorite legend) . Career mode is my 
 favorite option. Now to the new stuff. In a match, whenever ur opponent is being punched to death 
 a first person camera angle shows up and u can see what it's like to be getting ur ass kicked. 
 Also added was new haymakers, the punches i prefer to use. This gives u more ways to knock sombody 
 out. EA has taken away the in-game health meters (exc.) and u get tired quicker which makes it more 
 realistic too. The Ai has also been tweaked up a little bit to give a challenge (level of difficulty 
 is ajustable) . Finally, the graphics have improved an the automatic drip is a plus. Overall, this 
 game has it all. [I STRONGLY RECOMMEND THIS GAME] 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrFluffo
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 28, 2006 5:53 pm PT
Review:  This is a great game, to start off with. I LOVE the graphics. I thought they were good on a normal 
 TV but once i hooked it up to a HDTV its was AMAZING. Only a really good game if your a boxing 
 fan tho! People who dont like boxing shouldnt bother with the game obviously. As mentioned the 
 game is good but it could use some more content. The Career mode was a LITTLE stale, tho i didnt 
 like the part where its like Ready 2 Rumble boxing and had to train. The Career mode is basically 
 just normal fights with a few exceptions. Which are Title fights, and Power Hitter fights, and 
 there are others but not that many. They could have used more boxers, lineup feels a little slim. 
 The best addition to this game would've been an Arcade style fight. Sometimes im not in the mood 
 to go on with a fight for 7+ rounds where no one goes down. If there was an arcade type mode with 
 fast paced action and fights would take like 10 minutes, it would be awsome.
  Also, The AI can be a little annoying, and by annoying i mean reallistic (lol) . Some fights all 
 the guy will do is block, counter, dodge, repeat. Wich can get frustrating after awhile becuase 
 by the 10th round no one is really hurt. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Streetballfan21
Rating: 8.6
Date: Feb 28, 2006 5:19 pm PT
Review:  The Fight night series has always been alot of fun. And you gan say the say about Fight night round 
 3. It's a great game for big fans of play Xbox live. But if you don't have Xbox live find a way 
 to rent it. They added 2 new punches that are pretty cool. but i have use them all that much. They 
 are very hard to pull of, b/c they are super slow. so that does not change alot of the game play. 
 they made alot of little neat thing. But in the boxing ring it will feel the same as the past fight 
 night. so that might be a dissapointment to many fight night fans. it's got some cool music, and 
 i downloded some to my ipod. I say the only Big change in the game is the Graphics. Make sure to 
 pick it up b/c it's a really fun game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rgreenawald
Rating: 8.6
Date: Feb 28, 2006 1:23 pm PT
Review:  This game is by far the best boxing game out there. The graphics are soooo realistic, with the 
 blood and spit and sweat.. I love the realism of this version as you cannot just come out throwing 
 haymakers, you actually have to fight with jabs, hooks, counters, and occasionally go for the big 
 hit. I would have liked to see the training be a little more interactive, but it wasn't too bad. 
 The career mode could have used a little more structure in regards to rankings and progress, but 
 again wasn't all that bad. Overall I thought this was a great break for FPS games and will be a 
 game that could be in the collection for a while. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: redxwarriorxxx
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 28, 2006 7:53 am PT
Review:  It is there to say about a great boxing game that has not been said yet. Well you all know it has 
 great graphics and the gameplay but the soundtrack gets old quick and I have a nasty habit of looking 
 at the little things. The create a champ lets you make a boxer and if you did what it did, try 
 to make it look like you but if you have an olive skin tone then he will look Mexican or Puertorican 
 and the nose is always fat, you can't get a sharper nose going. Besides that when you fight then 
 the game is there but the ring girls look like to different teams made them. Everything below the 
 waist looks good but the arms and face are last gen looking and the crowd does to. The created 
 characters don't show damage well, I had my brother beat my face in to 100% damage everywhere and 
 all that was different has a little puffiness. That's it on little thing I did'nt like and like 
 most of you going through career mode be in for some wars. The A. I does pick on all of your weakness 
 latter in the game and the stupid Philly shell defense means you have 2 options attack and get 
 countered or sit there and wait forever for some action. But don't get me wrong it's all there 
 for you to pound each others brains out and it is addictive. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Verceties
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 27, 2006 7:59 pm PT
Review:  I just wanted to say that when I first played the downladible demo for the x box 360, i was amazed 
 by the graphics, my head exploded from sheer amazment! So when I finally got and beat this game I 
 said this deserves a review, plus this is the best way to get back to my feat. Any way to get back 
 to the topic this is a really good game, the graphics are stunningly real and the one on one is 
 breathtaking, yet the career mode toke a whilebecause Im not used to a fighting game of this perspective. Sadly 
 I havent tried out its online play due to experimenting with the whole diamond card theory so I 
 havent gotten all the action yet. now from the multiplayer so far is pretty good and gives me pretty 
 much the classic one on one fight between 2 boxers but I was hoping for a wider selection of multiplayer 
 matches but hey you get what you get., the thing I really like is the graphics of the knockout punch 
 but the camera angle isnt always in the position it should be so you cant always apreciate it, and 
 that sums up my Review on Fight Night round 3 for the X box 360!
  Your bud,
  Verceties 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zep311
Rating: 8.3
Date: Feb 27, 2006 4:53 pm PT
Review:  I anticipated this game for a while, especially since I saw how amazing it looked graphically. 
 I got it the day it came out and played it for quite a while, though I haven't had much time lately. 
 This is what I have to say about the game:
  
  Graphics: I think most of us would agree that the graphics are some of the best we've seen on the 
 360 so far. There was a time while I was playing my friend that I got so into the game that I thought 
 the guys looked completely real (and this was on a regular TV no HD) . The lighting is good and 
 the body definition is good too, which makes the players looks great.
  
  Gameplay: I played Fight Night 2004 and I thought that that was a good game. During the fights, 
 not much is different. You can heal your fighters cuts and swelling in between rounds, but like 
 before you can throw hooks, haymakers, uppercuts, and jabs like in previous Fight Nights. Me and 
 my friends havea pretty good time playing this, especially with featherweights who are damn fast.
 
  
  Career: I haven't gotten that far in career cause I haven't played much, but this is what I've 
 noticed. If you play on medium difficulty it's pretty easy to win matches, so put it on hard to 
 make it interesting. the training is cool but i always max out easily every time. I don't like 
 how I can't really pick my rivals. One time I had to schedule a fight with some guy I fought before 
 and they just told me hes my rival. Not only did I not want him as my rival, but I whooped him 
 too easily. The career is still fun. You can build up your guy, or bring up an old or current star.
 
  
  Overall: Good game. If you have friends who enjoy this its a fun game to play with eachother. The 
 career is a bit repetitive (sign, train, fight) but oh well. I think the game deserves anywhere 
 between an 8 and maximum a 9. If you like boxing, you can't pass this one up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bradberry9
Rating: 7.8
Date: Feb 27, 2006 3:56 pm PT
Review:  Fight Night Round 3 first astounds you with its near flawless player models and presentation, but 
 its repetitive gameplay and general shallowness really drag it down.
  
  After the intial shock and awe to do graphics and the fact that it is a game about two men beating 
 each other over and over, you realize that there just isn't much to the game. Punch, block, parry, 
 punch, block, wait, punch, and then get KO'ed just to see the retarded looking blood spit mix fly 
 out of your mouth (actually just worms) . 
  
  That isn't to say that the game isn't fun intially, because it truly is, but that after you've 
 fought a few times, you've seen pretty much everything. The instant knockout punch and the 1st 
 person punch mode just make the game seem really arcadey, more of a gimmick than a cool game feature.
 
  
  Gameplay: Shallow but fun.
  
  Graphics: Superb, nearly make the game.
  
  Sound: Repitive announcers, stupid statements, simply OK
  
  Value: Replayability is in the 
 the eye of the beholder.
  
  All in all, Fight Night doesn't disappoint, but it just doesn't inspire. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mainboard007
Rating: 6.8
Date: Feb 27, 2006 11:20 am PT
Review:  The graphics are great, sound is really well done, and the gameplay is ok. That is my 2 cents on 
 the bottom line. I really wish they had done more with the fight shop options. As it is there is 
 really nothing new per se and there is no real clear indication of how much the items you purchase 
 increase your stats. The fights are well done to a degree but it feels like Fight Night Round 2.3 
 then Round 3. Add to that, they force you to hear and see advertising over and over. I am sorry 
 but if your going to put adds in my game it had better come at a much lower price tag. I will not 
 be buying anymore EA games on the 360 if they are going to have in game adds then try and sell 
 it to me for $60. Overall its a good game but I regret paying $60 for it. I will not be buying 
 next years FN unless they add quite a bit more to the game. 
  
  + Graphics are well done. Sound is really well done. Gameplay is the same as last years.
  
 
  - Gameplay is the same as last years. The fight store is very confusing poorly organized and it 
 could have more options. Throwing punches really does not "feel" like your hitting a person. It 
 is very similar to the demo in that regard. Fighters are still wooden puppets with no real range 
 of motion. Nothing really new. Commentator gets cut off quite a bit. In game advertising is really 
 too much. Seriously do we NEED "The King" as a promoter in the game? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xraystar
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 27, 2006 11:13 am PT
Review:  After Round 1, I didn't think I would need another FN game. With the 360, though, I needed a game 
 that would show me what next-gen could be about. So here's Round 3, and I'm still recovering from 
 the haymaker-right hook visuals. This game is a beauty to look at. Not only are the graphics over-the-top, 
 but Round 3 retains the easy-to-pick-up gameplay of the original. Though the speed feels a smiggit 
 slower than the 1st, the game essentially feels the same; with addtions of some new powerful moves 
 (i. e. the Stun Punch and the Flask K. O.) . The customization of your personal boxer is even more 
 in-depth than before, providing a degree of personal flare I've yet to see in another sports title. 
 There were complaints of there being too much advertisement in the game, which isn't bad at all, 
 when compared to the likes of NFS: Underground2. If you're looking for that knock-out title for 
 your 360, this is it. So strap on the gloves and get your boxing fix on. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: calebkid
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 10, 2006 12:03 pm PT
Review:  Fight Night Round 3 (FNR3) is EA sports first true next generation game to come out on the 360. 
 First thing youll notice when playing the game is the amazing graphics and detail in the player 
 models. Secondly, the smooth and innovated game play is very well done, which really makes you 
 feel like youre the boxer in the ring. EA stuck with the career mode from last years FNR2, in 
 which you start as an amateur and work your way to become a champ. In conclusion if youre looking 
 for a game with amazing graphics, game play, and hours of fun beating people up, then Fight Night 
 Round 3 is your game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: x_cosmo_x
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 27, 2006 9:37 am PT
Review:  Over all 100 % good!!! The first series of Fight Night were good but Round three is outright awsome 
 and breath taking. The best way to get good at this game is to play contender mode it helps oh, 
 and use alot of body shots it helps alot. Just go out and buy this it shows off some of the best 
 graphics 360 has to show even if your not a boxing fan you will enjoy Fight Nite Round 3. What 
 are you doing just sitting at your computer still thinking if you should go out and buy it, you 
 don't have to think it's a must go, go, go, go. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarthTraxis
Rating: 6.8
Date: Feb 27, 2006 8:19 am PT
Review:  When EA Sports put the Fight Night Round 3 demo on the Xbox Live Marketplace, many people were 
 assured that despite their poor Xbox 360 launch line-up, this would be a chance to forgive and 
 forget. Well folks, it isn't. While Round 3 does look spectacular on the Xbox 360, the gameplay 
 isn't there to back it up, too many glitches exist for a $59.99 game, and despite its wonderful 
 presentation, there's no real justification for spending an extra twenty bucks over the original 
 Xbox version.
  
  The main focus with Round 3 on the 360 is graphics, graphics, and more graphics. I'll be honest: 
 they are the most realistic to date and possibly will be the most realistic for a long time to 
 come. Yet there are still graphical glitches that occur in the game, whether its a hand going through 
 someone's jaw or the ropes disappearing. Staying with the audio/visual department, EA Trax is incredibly 
 disappointing. While hip hop fans won't mind it, those who aren't into the genre will become quite 
 annoyed with the small selection of hip hop exclusive tracks. The commentary is nice in small doses, 
 but it's the same thing over and over, and half the time they are referring to the wrong person.
 
  
  The gameplay's presentation is simply outsanding, featuring stylized menus, a nice rivarly mode, 
 and a career mode that works well on paper; you are able to bring up your own character and rise 
 to the top of the boxing world while fighting some of the most recoginzable faces in the sport. 
 However, when it boils down to it, career mode mostly feels like a bunch of normal fights over 
 and over and over. The training exercises aren't all too exciting, and neither are half the fights. 
 The highlight of the game is easily the rivalry mode, but unless your a boxing enthusiast, it'll 
 still feel like the same old fights.
  
  EA Chicago had a nice thing going here and with a little more time they would of been at least 
 able to polish out the glitches, but it seems that EA Sports rushed out Fight Night Round 3 for 
 the Xbox 360, as if they didn't want to disappoint people by delaying the title after its original 
 console counterparts were released. Or maybe it's just a trend EA is falling into and banking on 
 the fact that graphics will sell. And while, unfortuantely, gamers are putting a hard 60 bucks 
 on this game without hesitation, hopefully they'll understand that EA Sports is cutting back on 
 us. After all, this is the company that wouldn't let people challenge plays in Madden 06 for the 
 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vorlen
Rating: 8.6
Date: Sep 27, 2006 7:08 am PT
Review:  The game is ok but I had next generation expectations and it plays like current generation with 
 better graphics. The sound could be a lot better and more boxers. The online options could be better 
 as well, like maybe some achievements for winning streaks or an actual online title thats passed 
 around. Spectator mode would also be a cool addition. Imagine playing online for the title and 
 100 people are watching. EA will never do something like this and its a shame. I'm not an EA hater 
 just wish they would do more. The good part of the game lies in the online play at least isnt laggy 
 like some other titles and the single player is challenging on higher difficulty settings 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BIGJHUB
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 26, 2006 6:31 pm PT
Review:  I totaly rented this game with low expectations. I played the demo like anybody with a 360 harddrive 
 and xboxlive would do. The demo was cool and sort of fun but didnt really get my attention. Then 
 i got the game. It is one of the best fighting games ive ever played. The graphics make my eyes 
 sparkle. They are so smooth and real its very nice. But one thing i really like is the carear mode. 
 It is so fun! make a really studly boxer and get better better by doing fun training games. Then 
 you play the boxing matches. Very very fun
  
  the only thing i dont like is make a boxer mode. the joystick moving and stuff just isnt good enough. 
 they need the tiger woods gameface that would make this game way better. :) over all this game 
 is totally sick i love it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: neyetmare
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 26, 2006 6:02 pm PT
Review:  very good quality graphics. im still debating if they used real people for the crowd or if its 
 just the graphics are that good. though the gameplay does get quite repetative. it is very cool 
 to be able to go through all the ranks and become the best boxer, and train, and meet new rivals. 
 also being able to use your fighter online is one of the best parts. though if you do not like 
 the online, there is no use in buying the game, because the offline mode is quite easy to beat. 
 so i suggest renting it first. it is definatley worth the 7-9 dollars that it costs to rent. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: njnaz765
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 26, 2006 3:08 pm PT
Review:  Since the purchase of the NFL liscense, it seems EA has gone down and down and down. Madden 06 
 for the Ps2 and Xbox were okay and had a cool new mode (superstar mode) but it was far too glitchy 
 and uninteresting to make the game a knockout. The NBA live series had no innovation, the superstar 
 moves were pointless as well. Then the next generation arrived for EA to get their hands on. We 
 instead of just porting the games over, they dropped all of the great features.... like a simple 
 franchise mode. But now in February 06 we see life from EA sports. Fight Night Round 3 is the latest 
 installment in the Fight Night Series. It boast some smooth gameplay, gorgeous graphics, and good 
 innovation.
  
  GRAPHICS
  The graphics in FNR3 are simple stunning. This is what next gen games should be on a standard level. 
 The "cinema style" graphics truly are what they are said to be. The faces ripple upon each hit 
 and tap. The lighting and player models are done perfectly. Only problems are that the replays 
 after each round are not exciting at all, and the ridiculous ragdoll physics in the game make the 
 knockouts and knockdowns much more arcadey.
  
  SOUND
  The soundtrack is good for the most part. The songs are catchy and well done, but nothing really 
 good enough to sell a soundtrack for. Speaking of soundtracks, the lack of a custom sountrack feature 
 really dissapoints. It's something that should be standard by now in sport games.
  
  GAMEPLAY
  Ok so the easiest way to go through this is with a list... so here we go.
  
  -Fighting ----Smooth, 
 responsive, fun, but at times slow.
  -Online ------Good, but suffers from the occasional lag
  -Features ---Stun Punch is great. Flash 
 KO is not what it advertises exactly, it's more of a get into the widescreen mode than a straight 
 knockout, but still good. ESPN Classic makes it easy to pick legendary fights. Career mode is fun 
 and the best way to enjoy this game.
  
  BOTTOM LINE
  If you like fighting games with strategy involved or a fan of boxing, buy this right away.
  
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: axw3rm31
Rating: 8.9
Date: Feb 26, 2006 2:22 pm PT
Review:  The online fights are amazing in this game the only problem there is with the online play is the 
 lag when it does lag it can screw up your punches and or knockdowns or blocks. When you do beat 
 someone online I think it just makes your whole day.
  
  The Career Mode is ok... if you dont have Live or never had Live you will probably enjoy it but 
 if you have ever played Live then it is boring because your playing by yourself and its just to 
 easy. The only reason to go through career mode is to get the achievements.
  
  Overall great game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrod009
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 26, 2006 1:17 pm PT
Review:  Many 360 games have been major disappointments... This one is amazingly great... Here is my review
 
  
  Gameplay: The gameplay is superb... the only reason it deserves a 9 instead of 10 is because it 
 is Computer is easy to beat.... even on hard
  
  Graphics: The shining point of this game. Truly Next-Gen, although the foot sinks into the mat 
 a little bit when a fighter is knocked down...
  
  Sound: For the most part good, but similar to FNR 2 and lines are repeated.
  
  Value: 9 not 
 10 because the gameplay is great but too easy, it gets a 9 because you can always play XBOX Live.
 
  
  Reviewers Tilt: Overall it is a 9
  
  To sum it all up, if you are remotely into boxing, sports, or just fighting in general, this game 
 is for you. If not, still consider this as a rental. In my opinion, this is a must have for the 
 XBOX 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dthlord
Rating: 6.2
Date: Feb 26, 2006 11:37 am PT
Review:  Why do people encourage companies to re-release the same game over and over again with slightly 
 improved gameplay and updated graphics. Sure, I like the game, kinda, but I have played several 
 clones of it also, which happen to be all the previous games in the "series". By re-releasing the 
 game, they are saying the previous one wasn't as good as they could make it, and they are going 
 to charge you to $50 or $60 to play the one that is the best they can do, then they turn around 
 and re-release it again. It is a cycle that I do not understand. Sure there might be a new boxer 
 or two, but no one knows who they are. And like with Madden (them both being EA games is kinda 
 a coincidence, but EA has several good examples of this) there is an updated team roster, and maybe 
 a new feature. (them doing this is kinda like patches for pc games, but Bungie proved you can have 
 a patch for a console game on a disc) . Don't get me wrong though, I hear EA is releasing a new 
 football game other than Madden (good for them) which is a step in the right direction for game 
 companies (hopefully others will follow, cough, Koei, cough cough) . Anyways sorry for all you hardcore 
 fans out there, but this is the truth. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 360warrior
Rating: 8.6
Date: Feb 26, 2006 10:49 am PT
Review:  FN Round 3 has the most amazing graphics ive seen on the 360 yet, it goes right up there with call 
 of duty 2, the games slow-mo knock out replay is stunning at first but after five times is just 
 damn repetiitve. And the weigh-in fights promised by official xbox magazine are just plain stupid, 
 it throws you in to first person only allowing you to block your opponent. The boxer selection 
 is limited to only the best, but it is still rather good. The depth of the game is raw and unfinished 
 in the respect that the achievements are bland, this game would have a bigger replay value if the 
 achievements spanned your boxers entire career, but it doesnt, it basically stops at around 45 
 professional fights, then you are just playing to play, which in my opinion then it is time to 
 hit xbox live. The xbox live did not impress me one bit, it is full of button mashers, therefore 
 even if you block them it is still very hard to regain composer. All in all this game is a step 
 in the right direction towards what next-gen games should be, but its not there yet. I score this 
 an 8.5 out of 10. A must have if your a boxing fan or if you want to keep it around to pound somes 
 of your friends when ever they come over. Thanks for listening to my opinion, ill see ya on live -- 
 Gamertag: PHINS FAN 8 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mcgeorge36
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 26, 2006 10:33 am PT
Review:  They folks at EA Sports just keep finding ways to make it better. I have been playing since it 
 was Knockout Kings on the old PS1, and its allot better now than it ever was. If you are new to 
 the game, then it will take some getting used to the total punch control, but once you do, you 
 never want to go back. The graphics on this version are great (I have an HDTV, so for what its 
 worth) and the sounds are pretty cool, and grotesque at the same time. Watching the replays of 
 you or your opponent getting hit, and seeing his face move that way, and the sounds of the spit 
 and blood coming out are what I am talking about. I think that they could have went with the old 
 ranking system, from #50 to #1 like in round 2, but whatever works for them. Also, not enough music 
 or choices of different kinds of music in this one. I think there are only like 12 songs or something 
 in it. They also could have make a feature for playing songs that you currently have on your 360 
 hard drive. No issues with the on-line play, it is pretty straight forward, and fun. One thing 
 that I think EA needs is the same system that the 2K sports uses, where after a game, you can actually 
 rate the person, from good, neutral and bad, and then several things in there. Hopefully, this 
 is something that will be added in the future. Anyone who likes boxing, or need something different 
 for their 360 should definitely pick this game up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 21022000155437637645440592266843-TYU4444
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 26, 2006 7:27 am PT
Review:  Gameplay (9) : Hard controls. I've only had 2 matches and I lost both, but the gameplay is still 
 fun. A lot of boxers to choose from, too.
  
  Graphics (10) : I think they are perfect! Ther boxers look very realistic, but the blood does, too. 
 Three cheers for the graphics.
  
  Sound (9) : Nice announcer that doesn't annoy you as much as Sonic Riders. Also, the punching sounds 
 really realistic.
  
  Value (10) : I only played it once, but it looks so cool that I do want to play it again.
  
 
  Reviewer's Tilt (9) : This is the only Fight Night game I have, and I'm glad I got it for the Xbox 
 360.
  
  Overall Score: 9.3 (Superb) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: michiguy1982
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 25, 2006 10:42 pm PT
Review:  I have been waiting for this game for so long. Teased for many months watching the gameplay mvies 
 on this website. Got to play the demo from XBOX live and LOVED it. If you are looking for the best 
 boxing game ever existed (Other than Mike Tyson's Punch-Out) this should be in your collection. 
 So with no further wait i'll post my good and bad things i like about this game.
  
  Good
  -Graphics (Can we say attention to detail?) are out of this world
  -Many different styles to 
 use, even for blocking
  -I actually like the different levels you go through for single player career mode
  -New impact 
 punches make the game happen. Haymakers are harder to pull off. And they either miss or get blocked 
 more often leading to you getting counterpunched. But if you can pull one off you basically already 
 have a knockdown.
  -Difficulty is upped a bit. I admit it the past 2 games were too easy. But now because of the boxing 
 styles you have to adjust to each fighter and how they fight. You become more strategic than a 
 button masher.
  -The arenas are beautiful with better crowds
  
  Bad
  -What happened to all those good close-ups in the replays that i saw from the demo?
  -Online 
 play sucks. If you are the guy fighting from the right. GOODLUCK. They should of been able to make 
 online play so that both players can play online like they do single player. Not a fair fight when 
 1 person is fighting from the opposite side they normally do. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: viewtfulnick
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 25, 2006 10:20 pm PT
Review:  The online fights are amazing in this game the only problem there is with the online play is the 
 lag when it does lag it can screw up your punches and or knockdowns or blocks. When you do beat 
 someone online I think it just makes your whole day.
  
  The Career Mode is ok... if you dont have Live or never had Live you will probably enjoy it but 
 if you have ever played Live then it is boring because your playing by yourself and its just to 
 easy. The only reason to go through career mode is to get the achievements.
  
  Overall great game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nittanylions
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 1, 2006 3:47 pm PT
Review:  This game is great the graphics look amazing and it's a very fun to play. The boxers look amazingly 
 realistic and life like. Cuts and bruises develop naturally and when you get hit in the face it 
 actually feels like you're getting hit in the face . It sounds very realistic when you punch someone 
 and when you knock someone down it looks incredibly painful and excruciating his face is damaged 
 and he spits out and blood it really feels like you're punching him in the face. ESPN classic is 
 a great addition it's fun to play as classic rivals in boxing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Generex
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 25, 2006 9:11 pm PT
Review:  I seriously did not expect for Fight Night Round 3 to be this good. The graphics are amazing, the 
 controls are above average, and the sound is great as well. It feels as if you're in a real fight. 
 If only it had first-person view. I think that the one thing keeping Fight Night Round 3 from being 
 the best sports game of 2006 is the competition. We always see the best gameplay when two companies 
 are creating the same sports game. Like Madden and ESPN NFL 2K. (Even though we won't see another 
 ESPN NFL 2K for a while.) If there were more fighting games out, this game would have had tons 
 and tons of new features and I would be addicted to it. Fight Night Round 3 is a great game, but 
 give it a year or two and it will be one of the best sports games out there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: oilwater8
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 25, 2006 8:07 pm PT
Review:  Let me start off by saying rent or buy this game immeadiately all audiences can enjoy it easily. 
 The basic career mode does feel linear but i love the approach on it you will be addicted very 
 easily by the story mode i played for a total of 8 (6 at once) hours the first night i had rented 
 it. The gameplay is not shallow at all as the punching and bloking system are very in-depth as 
 well as counter punching, being agile, and parrying. The graphics do NOT fall short at all in this 
 game they are perfect with excellent character models great color contrasts and shading crowds 
 look amazing and animation movement intense you might notice right away there isn't a HUD this 
 is because you can see if your or the opposing player's boxer is weak it looks very cool. The physics 
 in this game are also coll like getting a body blow will rock you. In mid-game you might be getting 
 beat up pretty bad suddenly you'll enter first person seeing only your gloves in this blocking 
 punches this makes a very nice effect that everyone can admire. The sound isn't much improved from 
 the last but it is sure damn good with good coach voices and announcer voices and impact punches 
 sound devastating sound very good on surround sound. it is moderately easy to pick up the game 
 and play but once you learn the controls you can get right out. value isnt the best in this game 
 because it has a short story mode and live isnt that good, the upside to live is that there is 
 no lag. Overall this is definately the first game you should label next gen there is no way this 
 could be possible on xbox. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ProGamerSt3v3
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 25, 2006 3:32 pm PT
Review:  I played FNR 3 for One week straight without sleeping. First i rented it for the 360 then i couldnt 
 stop playing it. so i bought for 55.00 dollars. This game is perfect gameplay 10 graphics 10 sound 
 10 I ready beat all the achievements i love this game my favorite boxer in this game is PACMAN 
 he looks real. The xbox live is the best ea did a good job no lag tooo!!!! I give Fight NightRound3 
 a 10.0 out of 10.0 thank u EA and Kudo for the fun game and solid gameplay and the best grapics 
 I ever seen. Fight Night round 4??? coming soon? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jesusthemessiah
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 25, 2006 9:41 am PT
Review:  this is a great sports game theirs alot more to it then meets the eye theirs over amillion ways 
 to approach a fight , its simply amazing the graphis and sound are the best yet on 360 and its 
 a ton of fun live is one of the best features of the game its nothing outa the ordinary jsut alota 
 fun to improve ur record. id like to have seen a lil more boxers like george foreman woulda been 
 nice to be able to fight with the bk guy woulda been great also id also like to have seen mike 
 tyson i know hes garabage but he woulda made a nice addition as just a fun guy to play with. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: elzzato
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 25, 2006 7:46 am PT
Review:  This game is one of many reasons for buying a xbox 360, for my sincerely I buy the xbox 360 for 
 games like that one. The game from you turn on the console the introducction is amazing and when 
 you play the game oooh my gooodness , you can't believe the graphics and most if you play in a 
 HDTV like me . The Game offers a visual option like vivid color , brilliant , default , and muted, 
 the best in HDTV is brilliant , but for gamers that like the theathers view are the vivid color 
 option . The soundtrack is a realy good one, AND GOD DAM I REALLY HATE THE KING IS A REALLY SACRY 
 GOOD ONE FOR NOTHING. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: degs
Rating: 7.6
Date: Feb 25, 2006 1:41 am PT
Review:  Since there is a lack of games out for the 360 I decided to give fight night round 3 a try. First 
 off the graphics are very slick and the character creation is full of customizations, and is a 
 great game to play for the first little while but gets pretty redundant I didnt really find I 
 had to use different tactics to beat the randomly generated boxers. And for the amount of advertising 
 I think the game should have been about 5 bucks cheaper it kind of made the game tacky in my opinion. 
 First off after you win a few belts you can earn the burger king mascot (who is creepy enough that 
 him haunting my TV bugs me enough) because you know when I think boxing, I always think burger 
 king. And if disgusting fast food isnt your taste dodge is right there to sell you a car, they 
 actually preview a car before one of your matches kind of lame. Its not like there havent been 
 ads in games before imp not shocked but they even have "unlock able" gear you can buy your "Create 
 a champ" character that will add more stats to your champ, because nobody makes quality gloves 
 and trunks like burger king. Anyways the game overall was fairly entertaining, but if you are on 
 a budget I would say this game is a rental 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thebiddybop
Rating: 8.6
Date: Feb 24, 2006 11:02 pm PT
Review:  the game plays pretty much like an expansion to last years game. Not that theres anything wrong 
 with that but it just seems like your playing the same game year after year. They added a few new 
 punches that you could ignore if you wanted. I went through the whole game only landing these new 
 "high impact" punches about 10 times. Your better off just using your boxers signature move or 
 hooks. The career mode seems linear. The only control the game gives you is when it allows you 
 to pick 1 of 3 fights to fight. Then after you defeat your opponent you go back around and now 
 have 1 of 2 fights to fight. The computer AI isnt aggressive enough and I have been in many fights 
 where it seems my opponents overall rating has been 15 points above mine and I still win. One thing 
 that bothered me was in career mode. I made my boxer (ripped) and then when I started training 
 in speed (boxing dummy) I saw that my boxer getting fatter. In order to keep your boxer in shape 
 you have to lift weights. This is realistic but honeslty I think that working on speed wouldnt 
 make you fatter. 
  
  GAMEPLAY : it's a great game but not with many added features. I am just left with a sense of wanting 
 more. I think the multi-player and online modes save the game alot.
  
  GRAPHICS : the game looks great but at times in the slow-mo replays you can see my fist going "through" 
 and out the other side of my opponents head. The skin textures and hair textures look amazing, 
 as well as the cuts and bruises, but they only hold up the first couple of days. After awhile you 
 don't really pay attention to the details and start noticing slight defects. 
  
  SOUND : the sound is AMAZING in the ring. The shattering punches and breathing sound great, ... 
 I would even go as far as saying the commentating. listing to the commentator has advantages. But 
 the music is HORRIBLE, there are maybe 10 rap tracks which arent too bad (I hate new school rap) , 
 but after just 1hr of play you already know all the songs and they get old and annoying.
  
  VALUE : mult-player/online = good value. I just wish the career mode was a little better. Sometimes 
 I just wanna test my gloves on a p. o. s. boxer after I've gone to the top. You never really get 
 to see your progession because your matched up against people as good as you. So every fight is 
 kinda the same. After becoming the champ I just wanted to go back and fight the first opponent 
 I ever faught and see how fast I knock em out.
  
  Personally I think it's a great game that will last for a month or two but it's not something that 
 I will be playing into summer. For 360 owners this is a great buy to last you til the March releases.
 
  
  Joe
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: kerrman
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 24, 2006 9:56 pm PT
Review:  Let me start by saying, this game's graphics damn near made me drool. They're beautiful, and on 
 an HDTV, they will floor you. But I was quickly disappointed by the gameplay.
  
  Though in some ways innovative, the controls for punching were just not my cup of tea. Especially 
 for stunning hits and KO hits. For those who have not played it, you swing the right thumbstick 
 in different directions for different moves, all while pressing RT to block and LT to lean/duck 
 and the left thumbstick to move. Sounds fun and new. Not at the pace of this game though.
  
  I rented Fight Night figureing "Boxing is fast-paced and hardcore, can't wait!". But when I 
 got home and popped it in the 360, I was happy I only rented it and didn't buy it. If real boxers 
 moved at this speed, I would be world champion. This game should be as fast and deadly as DOA4. 
 Then the controls would be flawless and worth the hassle.
  
  Now the sound, oh man is it good. The crowd cheering and chanting, and the play-by-play are well 
 done. But where the sound really steals the show is in the bone crunching blows to the face. Those 
 sounds alone make me cringe and throw even more punches to break the opponents face in. Also, the 
 soundtrack isn't too great, but that's because I'm not at all a fan of rap or hip hop, so I just 
 plug in the iPod and listen to my own tunes. Too bad the sound alone couldn't bring up the mediocre 
 gameplay..
  
  I'm sure if I spent another hour or so playing I would get a real grasp of the controls and be 
 good at dodging and leaning from punches. Sadly though, this game couldn't keep me entertained 
 for more than an hour and a half before I had to pull it out of my 360 and pop in a better game.
 
  
  So, my final statement. Go rent it. It's a good game worth at least one try. I had pretty big expectations 
 for it and was thinking it would be a 9/10. But the lame controls and repetitive gameplay kept 
 it down at a 7/10. Room to improve, and only slightly below average. B- 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Syndicate420
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 24, 2006 8:27 pm PT
Review:  I loved the game from when I got it. Its a good game to buy and I highly recommend it to you 360 
 owners. I was never really into the hole boxing thing becuase most of the games that were out there 
 freaking sucked. But id have to say fnr3 takes the cake for all the boxing games. Amazing graphics, 
 great playing, no hud displays. The only reason why i cant rate this a 10 is becuase a few minor 
 things. Sometimes the announcer gets annoying, also the controls feel a bit funky and the online 
 play is okay. I sometimes get disconnected from ea servers. im not the only one having this problem 
 most people have problems too with it. Also while online most players that are on always just use 
 about 10 haymakers in a row and just ko you. other than that its definitely worth a buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: One_Story84
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 24, 2006 8:03 pm PT
Review:  Thiis game is addicting!!! man o man!!! you could play this game for hours and hours. The graphics 
 are amazing and the gameplay is wayyyy faster than the demo. i thought after playing the demo this 
 game was going to be just another normal Fight Night game, but boy i was soooo wrong! Online is 
 pretty neat also you can take your created guy and play as him so that pretty neat! Offline mode 
 is fun but could really use some help, but im only going to play offline to improve my gamerscore. 
 All i need is online with this awesome game! The announcer says the same thing over again so i 
 play music... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Telecomdog
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 24, 2006 4:57 pm PT
Review:  The graphics on this are simply phenomenal, but the blatant commercialism throughout the game is 
 huge let down EA. Even the classic black and white matches are sponsored by Burger King! Enough 
 already! Is this the future of gaming? Should we be prepared for Halo 3 kills sponsored by the 
 NRA or Burnout 3 crashes sponsored by State Farm? 
  
  All and all the game is plays much better than Fight Night 2. Now you cannot just throw hay makers 
 at will you have to use both timing and skill. Also, the removal of the health meter, of which 
 I was initially wary, actual make the game feel more realistic. The overall single player and the 
 online play game play makes this game a great value.
  
  If you can get by corporate branding all over the place, then, you will really find this game very 
 enjoyable for boxing and non-boxing fans alike.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: MondoGordo
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 24, 2006 4:49 pm PT
Review:  Graphics alone may not warrant a good review on any particular game, however, it is hard not to 
 notice the superb visuals that this game has to offer. Sweat flying off from the boxers heads and 
 bodies, boxers looking and moving the way they should, boxing arenas and ambiance that is immersive 
 to say the least and a working camera angle that puts the player right where the action is without 
 sacrificing gameplay. 
  The mechanics of the game has not changed much from the previous games. To truly enjoy the game 
 as it was meant to be played, one MUST learn how to use the thumbstick to throw punches as oppose 
 to regular button mashing. I have to admit that I always played the previous games by using the 
 buttons as I always felt that the thumbstick does not react as fast or does not throw the particular 
 punch that I wanted to use. However, Fight Night 3 seems to be crisper and more responsive when 
 using the thumbstick compared to previous versions.
  The sound department seems to be lacking the "umph" that it needs to make this game a total package. 
 The sounds of the punches seems a bit too weak at times, particularly during crucial and exciting 
 replays
  If you have an XBOX 360 or looking into getting one soon, this game should give you the "next generation 
 console thrill" that you are after. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nonsoville2
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 24, 2006 3:46 pm PT
Review:  I will not tell a lie. This is not only the best game on the Xbox 360, but the best sports game 
 I have ever played in my Life. The graphics are stunning, Character models are spot on, the game 
 play control is superb, the sound is off the hook and you can even see the face expressions on 
 a boxer's face. I mean come on. What more could an Xbox 360 owner ask for. Huh? I wonder what happend 
 when GameSpot rated this game. Did they actually play this game? Cuz It deserves somthin above 
 the 9.0 score.
  EA Sports hit the freaking nail with this one. 
  If youre a 360 owner and you don't have this  
 I suggest you get urself one. It's just toooooooooooo Much. You can download a demo from Xbox live 
 before you buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: racer12mike
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 8, 2006 12:39 pm PT
Review:  This has got to be the best 360 game that I have played to date. The gameplay is awsome. There 
 are several different modes including magnificient online play, it has no lag at all and you can 
 talk to your opponents after a round and after the fight. It also has a great career mode that 
 lets you make your own boxer and costomize him with gloves, trucks, shoes, teeth gaurds, and more 
 which you unlock as you go along winning fights. You can also do ESPN Classics that let you fight 
 with people like Muhammad Ali, Joe Frasier, Evander Holyfield, and more. The graphics are also 
 the best that I have seen on the 360. I also love the corner cutman, which lets you heal up your 
 boxer while in the corner at the end of the round. The only real problem is that the boxers you 
 fight get a little to repeatative and there could be more of a variety. But none the less, this 
 game is the best that the 360 currently has to offer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dluv
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 24, 2006 2:00 pm PT
Review:  Here it is. I feel this is a game that lets you feel like you are in the ring. I have a 10 year-old 
 son that loves playing games with me and with this, he takes a heavyweight and I take a middleweight 
 and we go at it. It allows us to both play our hearts out without it being looped-sided. It is 
 true fun, feel like more than button pushing.....
  
  p. s. us control configuration 6, allows use of joystick and buttons. feels natural.....
  With 
 this control setup, can use buttons and the stick when you get the feel like it is an extention 
 of your arm.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: hlciceman
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 24, 2006 12:02 pm PT
Review:  First off the game is the best in the series. It brings great game play, better contols, some funny 
 commentairy and some other things to the game that havent been seen a quite a while. The game is 
 graphically amazing. Fighters on a hd look almost real. The fighting system is substantially improved 
 but the sounds seem kind of lacking. If you dont mind being bombarded with advertisements, such 
 as bugerking and underarmor. then you wont mind the sponsored fights. The game has more than a 
 few hours of gameplay rangeing from unlocking acheivements to, multiplayer. the game seems to have 
 it all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: biga407
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 24, 2006 10:31 am PT
Review:  the game is nice ive had it sense the 21st and seeing as its the 24th and ive spent MANY hours 
 with it i will do a real review of the game... basically it owns.. simply put, the graffics are 
 the best in any game 2 date.. they taken the plastic shine that was in the demo when a player got 
 ko'ed out of the retail game. the career is a nice upgrade from past fn's, also people are saying 
 the ai is 2 easy.. well in the later stages of the game it gets pretty hard so they probably didnt 
 play it enough before writeing a review. well period its a sweet game so check the score.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: candykiss83
Rating: 9.7
Date: Feb 24, 2006 10:08 am PT
Review:  I was very impressed with this game all round. To be honest with you this IS the first Xbox 360 
 game that actually impressed me graphically (to the extent that I paid the $600 for) . The sweat, 
 the movement, the facial expressions, the "make your own character options", and believe it or 
 not the crowd as well are all unbelievable in realism (finally) .
  
  Now not only is this game sexy graphically, but its a sexy little game in first person and especially 
 with a friend. The controls (like the other Fight Nights) are hard to get a hold of at first, however 
 once it comes back to you, or you figure them out its like you are in the ring busting Oscars pretty 
 little face.
  
  Anyways you need to play this if not for the boxing for the graphics. You will be able to see what 
 the graphics of the 360 SHOULD look like. 
  
  VERY IMPRESSED --- gotta go knock some boys around. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kidd41
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 24, 2006 9:25 am PT
Review:  i have played all of the fight night series and this by far is the best to date. boxing is a sport 
 that has been overlooked in the game industry. fight night made me take another look at boxing 
 in a whole nother light. then fight night round 2 made me say this is what i was looking for. now 
 we have round 3 for the 360 and this game made me see what we have missed in this gaming world. 
 i have never been able to tell what was really happening in the ring, now i see and hear what is 
 going on in the ring. the fighters look amazingly real, and i love when you finally get a knock 
 down the flow of blood that is spewed from the mouth and the way way i see the cut bleed and flows 
 from the models. i mean it is so real. if you want realistic boxing this is it. i would recommend 
 a rental first though. even though i am in love with round 3 you may not be. but i think it was 
 money well spent. and i will say this if there is a gaming god he has showed mercy on the video 
 game world of boxing. this is a must have for boxing fans. lets get it on. i will be waiting. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Crimson_Raven
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 24, 2006 8:42 am PT
Review:  Is the Fight Night Franchise the Best Boxing game available? Of course it is its the only Boxing 
 game out there. I wonder how good a 2k Boxing game would be. Would you play it even though Fight 
 Night Round 3 Rocks the House.
  
  This year EA has made a tremendous leap in the amount of detail in the graphics, and not just in 
 the 360 version either, the other ports look incredible as well.
  
  Having the game come out as the 2nd game for the 360 this year was a great Idea, everyone was in 
 the need for a good game that will entertain you for hour at no end.
  
  Fight Night Round 3 I thought delivers a whole package, for the Single Player and the Multi-Players. 
 I love the Career Mode for the Franchise, Creating your own Boxer and moving him up the ranks and 
 testing your skills against some of the greatest to step in the ring.
  
  Hitting you Opponent with the with the All New Stun Punch is AWESOME! If you time it right You 
 can pull one of these of as a counter punch and when it lands the Screen goes into a First Person 
 View through your Opponents eyes while hes on the defensive with his gloves as his only source 
 of protection. Its so cool watching yourself hit some one in that mode.
  
  Also this year there is a ESPN Classic mode for you to pick some of the greatest match-ups of all 
 time and relive the action, and if you play though the Career mode and you had a rival, you can 
 retire your boxer and he will end up in the Classic Mode.
  
  I was having a hard time through my career and I didn't realize you could change your boxers fighting 
 style, in fact you can edit everything about him so your not stuck with what you create.
  
  I really like this game and its a Definite BUY. I don't recommend buying games really, but this 
 one offers good replay-ability and great online features.
  
  EA if you are reading this, NEXT ROUND ADD WOMEN! Ghost Recon has WOMEN and Boxing in real life 
 has them too. I think adding women would be the all around completion for the game. Ali's daughter 
 is a BAD Muther, Shut your mouth!
  
  Thank you for reading my review, Please read my others.
  I'm ranked in the TOP 500 game reviewers.
 
  
  Love you all
  -Crim 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dreor
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 24, 2006 8:05 am PT
Review:  FNR3 is a mixed beast, at times it is a fantastic experience, yet too often it rears the uglier 
 side of it's head, and causes the game to come up a bit short.
  
  Let me say right up front that the graphics are excellent 99% of the time. From the build of the 
 boxers to the lighting, to the knockout animations, it all looks amazing, especially played in 
 HD. The graphics do take a few hits to the chin though. At times when you knock you opponent out, 
 his feet disappear into the canvas if he is lying face down. Also the cuts that the boxers receive 
 are the same. In the course of completing a career in the heavy weight division, I saw 5 or six 
 cut animations. Still overall, the graphics good by far outweigh the bad.
  
  The game play is where this title falls short. Starting a new career , I created a boxer, and was 
 pleased by the character creation options. Then I was off for a little sparring. It was nice to 
 see you begin in the amateur division, complete with headgear. This is where you learn to play 
 the game, and by the time you make it through this division, you will feel like you are really 
 making progress. However 15 fights into the game, things begin to get very repetitive . Although 
 the boxers you are fighting look different (marginally at times) , it sill feels as though you are 
 boxing the same few group of guys. And you "rival" is just as cookie cutter. The other thing about 
 you rival is how he flies past you in the rankings. My first rival was "The Assassin". I knocked 
 him out in the third round of our first match. Well guess what, there he was at the end of the 
 division, my opponent for the title fight, with a worse record, on top of that by the time I saw 
 him again his stats were 10 points higher than mine in all categories. He still fought just a crappy 
 though. 
  
  It would have been nice to be able to change your entrance (music, lights ect..) This was in previous 
 builds and should have been in this one. And there should have been some kind of fan-fair when 
 you win a belt or title, sadly you just go on to the next match. The classic mode is ok, just more 
 of the same lackluster experience.
  
  All in all, this feels like every other EA sports game on this system, rushed and incomplete. I 
 know their titles will get better, but right now things are just not up to par with other titles 
 on the system.
  
  I enjoyed the first few hours I played, but lost interest soon after, and only kept playing for 
 the achievements and to complete my career. I would rent first before plunking down $60. Still 
 the graphics are worth a look, even more so if you have HDTV. This title didn't go down for the 
 count, but definitely got staggered a few too many times.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: EniGma1311
Rating: 8.3
Date: Feb 23, 2006 9:51 pm PT
Review:  I first played the demo and liked it a lot. The game itself is fun, but it can get very irritating 
 if you don't know what to do. I just got this today and it looks amazing. The graphics and sound 
 are amazing, no doubt about that. The cracks sound so real every time you hit or knockdown some 
 guy. The gameplay is okay, its not the best. The joystick that is used to control punches can be 
 very difficult to use. The online is okay, opponents can get cheap at times and this is what begins 
 to create the games difficulty. Overall, the game is awesome, but the gameplay is somewhat difficult 
 and takes time to getting used to. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spiderfan2025
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 23, 2006 9:04 pm PT
Review:  This was my first boxing game, and I must say that I am quite impressed. I first went about trying 
 this game by downloading the demo (Which is still free I think) so if you have Xbox live I suggest 
 you try that first to get a good feel for the game before buying. Now on to some of the features 
 I like.
  
  The controls are not too complicated so that you can learn them quickly, but complicated enough 
 that you don't just feel like you are button mashing.
  
  The graphics are pretty incredible, although there are still some glitches, such as your hand literally 
 going through the other boxer's head in slow motion.
  
  The commentary is decent, but gets repetitive, however I can't really hold that against them as 
 it gets repititive in every sports game.
  
  Career mode is a blast at first, but as you keep progressing it doesn't feel like a true career 
 mode. It's still fun to work your way up, but it could be better. The minigames are fun though, 
 but can be challenging. Minigames include training minigames to improve your skills, and between 
 round minigames to heal your wounds.
  
  Multiplayer is great, I love beating down on my friends. Also, being able to use some of the boxing 
 greats such as Ali is a lot of fun.
  
  I personally enjoy realism when it comes to games like there, and this game is very realistic. 
 I highly recommend at least a try. if you don't like it, fine, but it's such a solid game that 
 it's hard not to find at least some enjoyment out of blocking a left hook only to smash to come 
 back with a left haymaker of your own right across your opponent's face. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TripleSizz6ix
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 23, 2006 8:20 pm PT
Review:  This game in my opinion will knock out any other sports game, also the fact that i'm a big boxing 
 fan haha :0. Anyways, I think I'm in love theres no other game that can take the spot of this action 
 online of whooping ass... Except.... Oblivion! Anyways this game might be hard when you first try 
 it but i suggest diffrent strategys for diff chars. I mean like my strategy for middle weight and 
 down i use a specific boxer for whatever the guy aganist me is using, you might not see it but 
 theres alot of skill involved in choosing the right one and remembering diffrent strategys to defeat 
 your oppenent in diffrent weight classes, so theres really some strategy in this game at least 
 in my opinion but heck what game doesnt have some sort of strategy or it wouldnt be a game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blaine5
Rating: 8.4
Date: Feb 23, 2006 8:05 pm PT
Review:  Fun and it feels pretty good to play. The game has nice graphics and nice responsive controls. 
 Only problem I see is that it is just a little too repetitive in career mode and training features 
 have not changed since fight night 2 which is a little disappointing. The boxing does have the 
 most realistic feel to date and is definitely the best boxing game on any system to date. The new 
 Impact punches are a nice touch but make it too easy to get a knockout. Overall a great game and 
 definitely worth buying especially if you like the previous fight night games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: swuth
Rating: 4.2
Date: Feb 23, 2006 7:16 pm PT
Review:  Now then, lets take a genre (fighting) and suck all the fun out of it by making it 
  'Realistic'. Sure, this looks amazing and the animation is fluid and the environments are stunningly 
 well rendered. Well so is my kitchen, and the animation on my wife cooking dinner is smooth and 
 the rendering very very lifelike. That doesn't mean I want play a cooking dinner simulator. The 
 gameplay is boring as all hell, and isn't that what really matters at the end of the day?
  
  I'm sure their will be graphic whores out there who will tell me I am wrong, but take a step 
 back for 11 seconds and try and block out the amazing visuals...... Now.. wouldn't you prefer to 
 be playing DOA :)
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: notetoself1
Rating: 8.4
Date: Feb 23, 2006 6:47 pm PT
Review:  the first thing that is great about this game is without a doubt the graphics. they are amazing, 
 guys look real. what brings the game down a little is the gameplay and the career mode. alot of 
 the fighters you go up against in career mode kinda look the same except for the main boxers. the 
 punches are cool and all but when ur playing someone and they go for a counter, you cant like move, 
 you get stuck up and sorta have to take the hit and its annoying. and it was pretty bad wen i took 
 down ali in the second round by knockout, it disapointed me, he was one of the greatest of all 
 time and i took him down so quickly, but overrall the game is good, its a good buy and alot of 
 fun if you can stand some of the gameplay flaws. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: supersohail
Rating: 8.7
Date: Feb 23, 2006 3:23 pm PT
Review:  Fight night round 3 has interesting options that players can use, the more there are the better. 
 All of the time players build their own characters which is very fun and almost the funnest thing 
 tyou can do in the game. The only things player focus is the actual game it self. The distance 
 between the other games which introduced new gameplay and features which made the game better and 
 in this one it hasn't got the right act in the game because it was supposed to increase it's series 
 a lot but the case that the way it is like on the xbox 360 version now it has increased! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jorge_16
Rating: 8.9
Date: Feb 23, 2006 2:05 pm PT
Review:  i was so happy when i got this game because it was the only new 360 game doa4, and it was definatley 
 worth the wait. as you can already tell the graphics are ridiculous. the best graphics on the 360 
 period. you can every single freckle on the back on some of the fighters and their faces look sick 
 when you knock them down and see their face ripple.
  
  the only thing is that the game is pretty easy. you can stand in front of your opponent for the 
 whole round and only hit you maybe 12 times. and the career mode needs more work. other than that 
 this game is definately worth buying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mcgillmaine01
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 23, 2006 12:18 pm PT
Review:  Fight Night has always been great game. Being the only boxing game now. EA doesn't let us down 
 this year. From the graphics to the Game play. Fight Night is a must have 360 game.
  
  Game play: Well its boxing game. What do you do when you box? But EA has done well when bringing 
 "real" life boxing in a video game. Each boxer has its own style with there pros and cons. Ali 
 is very fast, while James Tony is slow but powerful. And with that you play each boxer differently. 
 Because there's no HUD in the game. You have to watch whats going on very carefully. Like if the 
 other is tried and moving slowly, it's time in go in for the KO. EA has the Total Punch Control 
 which is the best thing a game could have. You can put together some nice combos and haymakers 
 with the control stick. And thankfully the haymaker has been toned down. But if you don't block 
 it will still bring the same pain.
  
  Graphics: Some of the best to date on the 360. Player models look unreal. And you can see everything 
 that's going on in the ring. From the blood to the sweat. You don't miss anything. And the replays 
 are killer. These look so nice. Very good detail in that dept.
  
  Sound: FN3 brings more to the table then you would want to hear. The replays are crazy. The sounds 
 EA put into this is crazy. Sounds like bones are being broke and cracking every time you get a 
 good hit off. And with a hip-hop Soundtrack FN3 sounds just like the real sport.
  
  Value: Fight Night is always better playing with a buddy. But now there's X box live. And you have 
 all the goodies like last year. With un-rank and ranked games you will get endless replay value 
 in this.
  
  Overall this is one of the best 360 games. And if you been waiting for a solid title on the 360 
 system. This is it. Buy it, buy it now.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: miky2waky
Rating: 8.7
Date: Feb 23, 2006 12:15 pm PT
Review:  This game is great. the graphics are amazing.... but they could be better, the crowd looks good 
 for a xbox version but they could look better and move better too, the gameplay is amazing.... i 
 cant say anything wrong about it..... the only flaw in this game is the career mode, we need more 
 of everything.... more information about ur boxer, more rivals theme, more things to buy, more dicisions 
 to make, more training games, more things to manage.... the career mode is ok... but thats all it 
 is ok....... the career mode makes this game from a 9.7 to like a 8.7... yes its still good but it 
 could be better....
  
  Peace 
::::::

::::::
UserName: digitalreaction
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 23, 2006 9:11 am PT
Review:  If you have $59.99 + tax and a 360, go buy this game. For a guy who loves fighting games but can't 
 stand the button mashing tactics and unbalanced gamesplay of DOA4, this game really nails it. 
 
  
  It looks amazing, plays amazing and and is packaged up in a decidely gritty and hip-hop style interface 
 and soundtrack that really works.
  
  Here are my complaints:
  
  The announcers are awful and innacurate which is frustrating for a game that has no HUD and relys 
 on them pretty heavily.
  
  When your in the Fight Store, unless I'm just impatient you don't get to see a preview of the items 
 you are interested in purchasing. I would up with an expensive pair of white trunks by blindly 
 making purchases. Minor but worth noting...
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: grecords
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 23, 2006 8:52 am PT
Review:  First let me say that by now people should be used to total punch control or at least accept the 
 fact that if they use the buttons instead they are going to lose control over the power of their 
 punches. No one that has played the previous 2 installments should complain about controls. Total 
 punch control works and its here to stay.
  
  The soundtrack is much better than lasts years horrible "Daddy Yankee" esque mix. I know that it 
 has a decent sized following now but its still not mainstream enough to have so many songs from 
 that genre. You're going to get complaints when you make a soundtrack mostly rap, so making it 
 a sub-genre is going to disappoint even more fans. None the less, this years soundtrack fits better 
 in the background. Its not phenomenal at all but its not a collection of annoyance.
  
  They made the A. I much smarter and made it easier to counter haymakers. The problem with last years 
 version is that the A. I. was inept in countering someone who was comfortable with haymakers. They 
 also gave you control over haymakers to the point where you can instantly decrease an opponents 
 health (A. I does this enough to keep fights interesting) and to go to a first person view of yourself 
 punching your opponent. While the latter may not work well on the CPU (haven't really tested it 
 on the cpu to be sure) but I can see how it would bewilder a human opponent.
  
  The pre game TV you see on your career menu is very cool. Before you schedule fights you may see 
 a higher ranked fighter calling you out. This goes on until you reach their rank and fight them. 
 If someones not calling you out then you'll see something about yourself flashing across. Every 
 victory will flash across the screen as well. Its something small and silly but it does add to 
 the value of the fight.
  
  Not only can you choose between Fast, Balanced, and Power stances, but now you can shoose two additional 
 stances from the start including Mummy and Wild. To add to this you can choose you style of punching 
 (Speed, Balanced, Power, Slugger, Uppercuts, etc) and your style of blocking (Cross, Basic) . In 
 short if you find a human player online or a friend brings over a save with is fighter to your 
 house, you should be seeing much more differentiated and customized characters.
  
  The announcer also has been improved upon further.
  
  Knockdowns? The sounds and the close-ups 
 sometimes make me wince. I've held my sides multiple times after dropping some individuals from 
 deadly body shots. They got rid of the instead siezure that players would have and instead have 
 they fall down from head shots, and fall to their knees from body shots. While this will dissapoint 
 fans that enjoyed unleashing flurries of punches on stunned opponents, this is much more realistic 
 and you can still get off 1 maybe 2 punches on a falling opponent.
  
  Fan of boxing? Buy this. Nuff said.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: SirRocky
Rating: 8.9
Date: Feb 23, 2006 8:29 am PT
Review:  This game is alot of fun. The graphics, the animations, the sounds, all of it add to giving a very 
 realistic and very cool feel to every punch, every hook, every haymaker thrown into your opponents 
 face.
  
  Graphics - Amazing detail, sweat, blood, fatigue, its all there. You can really tell how well you 
 are doing, and how fatigued your boxer (or your opponent) is just by looking at them. Animations 
 are clean and flow nicely together. Some clipping glitches at times. Occasionally you will throw 
 a punch and when it goes to slow-mo you'll see your fist going right through your opponent's body/face. 
 Also, some minor clipping glitches with the ring. Sometimes when down, your foot will be partially 
 inside the floor, and when against the ropes/corner sometimes the same types of glitches occur.
 
  
  Sound - The sound of your punch ripping through your opponent's face in slow-mo never gets old. 
 Sound plays an important part in each fight. You can hear the boxers getting tired, you can feel 
 their pain.
  
  Gameplay - The total punch control really makes it feel more like a boxing match and allows for 
 alot more control and flexibility than the buttons. Boxers tire from excessive misses or long matches 
 and slow down noticably (A complaint by many about the demo, however, it makes the fights more 
 realistic and removes the ability to just swing for the bleachers over and over and hope you get 
 lucky) . 
  
  Singleplayer - Solo career starts off nice and easy, and gradually works up to more difficult fights, 
 a very nice difficulty curve. However, alot of features you would expect in any tournament style 
 game are missing. You have a popularity meter that fills up until a main event fight, but aside 
 from that, there's no way of tracking your progress and no reference of progress to other boxers. 
 So I can see that my popularity meter is halfway to be able to do the Burger King match, but what 
 does that say about my boxer? There's no way of knowing. Also, the "Rivals" system is poorly developed. 
 Basically a boxer will be marked as your Rival (I guess after a fight with him, though there's 
 no real rhyme or reason as to why one becomes your rival over another) and when you fight him, 
 the fights seem to be more brutal. Prior to fighting on the menu, there's a box to the left that 
 has random one or two line quotes from the fighters, but there is no control over it, and its meaningless 
 to the actual game.
  
  Multiplayer - Alot of fun. I've done about 5 or 6 matches now. 1 ranked, the rest unranked (and 
 I have to say I am undefeated so far :) ) . I only had slowdown during one of those matches and 
 it was so minor I almost didn't notice it. Players can select any of the standard boxers, as well 
 as any they made with the "Create A Champ" mode (not the standard career mode unfortunately) . The 
 only things I'd like to see more of with the online is perhaps an online career mode similar to 
 that of Project Gotham 3) and the ability to do a rematch against a player or stay in the same 
 server after a match. A Gotham Heroes style option would be nice as well.
  
  Overall its a great game and well worth the money if you enjoy fighting games (and intend to do 
 multiplayer) . I haven't finished the singleplayer career yet, but I'm sure once I do, 95% of my 
 time spent with the game will be in online matches.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: lincolnmustang4
Rating: 8.7
Date: Feb 22, 2006 10:49 pm PT
Review:  This game is turning out to be really fun so far. This is the first Fight Night game I've every 
 played less say my first boxing title but I slowly find myself I should have said slowly twice 
 learning the controls and slowly learning how to anticipate otheres movements and the online has 
 been great everyone been nice but they've also been rockin my world at the same time very little 
 wait to get game started and in my case over.
  
  Thanks for checkin this out and always check out more I try to all new games witin the first couple 
 days they come out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DominicanAG
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 22, 2006 10:42 pm PT
Review:  I have to say this has to be the best looking and the best boxing game I've ever played on any 
 console ever. From the power punches, the sweating of the boxers, training, and being able to customize 
 your own boxer. Best thing about the game is the career mode. That's where you'll spend most of 
 your time stuck to your tv playing. You just want to see who's the next boxer for you to destroy 
 in the ring. I just love to see the hits man. You feel like you're right there in the fight. It's 
 so intense. Even when you get hits you feel how hard they are hitting you it's crazy. I have to 
 say this is the closest to realism in a boxing game. You would enjoy this game even if you're not 
 into boxing just to knock out a friend or someone on xbox live. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Angelodivita
Rating: 8.2
Date: Feb 24, 2006 10:17 am PT
Review:  With the limited number of games out there for the 360, a new release is often exciting and something 
 to look forward to. After burning through the three other games I purchased for the 360, I was 
 looking forward to a game with more replay value. I was a big fan of Fight Night Round 2, and Round 
 3 looked like it was going to be a big step up ... well ... it was and it wasn't. Allow me to go 
 over the good ... the bad ... and the downright ugly.
  
  The Good:
  - The graphics ... wow ... the graphics ... wow ... the graphics ... but wait a second ... is that 
 a ... (see the ugly section) .
  - Tying in with the graphics, the facial expressions in the game are some of the best ... no ... 
 THE best facial expressions I have ever seen in a console game.
  - The ability to play without a HUD is nice, and adds to the realism. 
  - The gameplay is familiar 
 if you've played the previous editon.
  
  The Bad:
  - The lack of any sort of career stat management, including the lack of a ranking list. It almost 
 feels like you aren't getting anywhere ... almost.
  - Some of the career statistics seem screwy. For instance, I beat Evander Holyfield and when I 
 later fought him again, it said he was undefeated. Also, in a rivalry it mentioned something about 
 my guy staying undefeated ... but I wasn't undefeated.
  - EA SPORTS has this idea that nobody wants to use buttons anymore and in just about every game 
 of theirs they decide that the analog sticks should be the only two things touched ... f that ... 
 at least they allow for alternate control schemes ... but you still have to be an analog expert 
 to win the big fights. On the plus side, this is one game that makes better use of the stick ... 
 (Unlike NHL) .
  - So like ... that whole slow-motion face punching thing is cool the first few times ... but seriously 
 ... is that stream of spit necessary every single time somebody gets knocked down by a blow to 
 the face? What should be random and more particular to the situation just happens way too often.
 
  - Something about the gameplay just seems a bit slow ... like overall ... it just seems like the 
 punches should flow more in line with how fast you move the analog stick ... since you have to 
 use it anyway.
  - Okay ... I defeated my "rival" three sequential times ... and how on earth did he get a title 
 shot BEFORE my boxer and somehow appear as the title holder? This ties in with the lack of stat 
 tracking and rankings.
  - Select the butch haircut and your fighter may go bald randomly.
  - Physical attributes don't seem to do much ... or matter much ... because the boxers you face 
 get better with you anyway ... and since you have very limited choices for opponents, it doesn't 
 feel like you've gotten any stronger or faster or what not.
  
  The Downright Ugly:
  - Nobody told me that the boxers did the robot in the game ... seriously ... if you just stand 
 idle for a minute, watch the disgusting flicker of arms move around wildly ... totally unrealistic 
 ... bad show EA.
  - EA Sports is notorious (well to me at least) for implementing difficulty levels by ... well ... 
 unsportsmanlike conduct ... as opposed to skill. After a while you will be able to tell that the 
 computer on harder difficulty levels will respond to whatever combination of stick and block you 
 might be using, maybe even mid-punch ... causing the CPU fighter's moves to look unrealistic just 
 so they can get a hit. It is certainly frustrating, and might cause you to put down the controller 
 for a day or so. It is difficult to explain how a computer might be "cheating" lol ... but think 
 NHL where they shoot a slow-moving shot from across the halfway point and it just slides right 
 past your goalie because you are ahead by two or three points already. EA ought to get rid of such 
 annoying "logic" in the games and go back to the drawing boards on that for all their games.
  - Okay ... amidst all the nice graphics ... what the f is that foot doing shaking wildly on the 
 mat? Apparently it's a glitch that not even Round 3 was able to knock out *slaps knee*. 
  
  Overall: It seems I picked out more flaws than good points in this review. I think a lot of the 
 good points are derived from the feeling you get when you play the game. Your imagination might 
 have to play a part in the single player mode (for me it does) in order to create a fulfilling 
 single player experience. 
  
  I guess a lot of the negative points stem from just overall disappointment with EA SPORTS. Despite 
 the re-occurring drawbacks of the series, it is still a good game. I wouldn't hesitate to recommend 
 it to any boxing fan, or any fan of a good sports game. It is still able to build a sense of tension 
 when certain fights re-occur and it has good replay value. I think the graphics are great and they 
 give hope to the next generation of sports games for consoles.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: surferboy2177
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 22, 2006 8:58 pm PT
Review:  To say that this game is one of the best fighting games in history might be a bit of an understatement. 
 This game totally blows away any competition in the genre. 
  Game play is pretty solid in this title. I love the total punch control using the analog stick 
 and the ability to dodge and counter is pretty cool. If I could have one complaint about the game 
 play is that faints are really hard to pull off and the AI will use it against you a lot, also 
 the characters move kind of slow for me, but that just because it's more realistic. However the 
 game play is easily the best part of the game. 
  Graphically the game is a power house and really shows off the capabilities of the 360's hardware. 
 Easily the best looking 360 game to come out so far (well except maybe Call of Duty 2) . The detail 
 in each character model is absolutely stunning and the slow motion knockouts are the most brutal 
 things I have seen in a game. I also like how you don't need to use the HUD in order to tell the 
 condition of your boxer. Very cool and innovative 
  Sounds are great as well; from the brutal punches to the cheering of the crowd as you belt someone 
 in the face, the sound can easily pass for the real thing. I also love how the characters sound 
 when they get hit, like all their energy is sapped and their panting increases the weaker they 
 get, very realistic.
  The game has a pretty good value. I certainly didn't feel like I wasted my money. However I was 
 kind of upset with the career mode. It's an interesting concept, but truth be told it leaves a 
 lot to be desired. However the Multiplayer is great on Live and I experienced hardly any lag what 
 so ever. 
  Overall the game rocks. This is one of the greatest boxing game to ever hit consoles. This is a 
 must buy for anybody who likes boxing, even a little and also a must buy for any 360 owner. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Thailfish
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 22, 2006 8:45 pm PT
Review:  So today I came home with my new copy of FN3 and sat down to give some serious time into career 
 mode. First I looked at player creation, which is the best of any player creation system I've ever 
 used. Plus they have many more ways to customize the way your boxer box's in the ring besides just 
 standard, fast, or power. 
  
  After creating my character I got right into signing a fight, which is pretty familiar to all you 
 who have played the other Fight Nights. Then I did training, which is all the same as previous 
 as FN2, except sparring is like practice instead of gettting % for it. Then I got into my first 
 Amatuer fight. When my opponent walked into the ring he tried to leave the ring, which was a nice 
 touch. I quickly took care of him and the Referee (still isn't on the screen) stopped the fight. 
 Next I played a couple more fights not too different from each other. Then the Amateur title, which 
 I made my first rival, which is just basically a guy who takes illegal shots at you as you kick 
 the crap out of him, then he calls you his rival. Its rather dumb.
  
  I also checked out ESPN classics, which is a feature I really like cuz I'm a huge boxing fan, and 
 it shows how boxers fight usually. My favorite feature is the addition of the new punches because 
 now you can truely wind up how much power you wanna put into a punch. Overall Fight Night Round 
 3 is definently the most entertaining and most realistic boxing game yet. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: UTfan1883
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 22, 2006 7:32 pm PT
Review:  Let me start off by saying I have played a lot of boxing games in my day, including all of the 
 Fight Night series, but this beats all.
  The graphics are the best I've ever seen in any game. They are so good they put you right there 
 in the squared circle.
  The soundtrack I did not like, but then again I'm not a fan of new rap. The commentary, although 
 at times more repetitive than Clint Eastwood's movies, is very well done. It gives you the feeling 
 of watching it on TV, because the commentator is talking about everything.
  The gameplay is awesome. Basically you get the same kind of career mode as in the past, but longer 
 lasting. With the addition of the ESPN Classic mode, you have only more reasons to keep playing.
 
  There's really nothing I can say bad about Fight Night Round 3. Thank you EA! This is a definite 
 pick up if you are a fan of boxing, and even if you don't... rent this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Freddy
Rating: 7.8
Date: Feb 22, 2006 6:44 pm PT
Review:  I'm sorry guys I'm a boxing fan and this game doesnt have what it takes to be a boxing title.
 
  
  The graphics are amazing due to the fact the NexGen systems are amazing so no credit there for 
 EA. 
  
  The gameplay is still the same and the ability to block and expose your opponent is getting a bit 
 annoying and there should be a way to disable it. I knocked an opponent with a left uppercut and 
 when they showed it in slow motion my glove never touched his face what is up with that? Another 
 title rushed by EA. 
  
  Sometimes when I started rounds the announcer says stuff against me as if I'm being knocked out 
 or I'm slowing down... not sure but he says things that shouldnt be said during the start of a 
 round.
  
  The rap music will not save EA's FNR3. This game did not live up to what we expected, EA needs 
 to hold another team meeting and regroup for the next sports or whatever title.
  
  Not worth the bucks unless you plan on playing online. There are a lot of things missing like changing 
 your music, entourage or even player creation. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DryvBy
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 22, 2006 6:26 pm PT
Review:  I hate EA Sports because I don't like how EA is trying to be "The Gaming Company". I hated the 
 new Madden, like every Madden since 2002. I hate NBA Live because it's just cheaply made and overpriced. 
 But Fight Night is different. Fight Night Round 3 actually makes up for the horrible EA games I've 
 played on the 360 thus far.
  
  The career mode isn't deep at all but it's good. It's a really new way to create a boxer and with 
 the texturing and high poly models, the game just holds up to be the most beautiful games on the 
 Xbox360 right now. The sounds are great, although the commentary is a big lagged and repetitive. 
 The total control is easy to master and makes for a good boxing match instead of a boxing button 
 mash. I just got this tonight and it's just un-freakin-belieable. The demo serves no purpose to 
 how good the game actually is. Fights do seem to get a little repetitive but...
  
  ... the multi player is, of course, great! Pounding your best friend in the head in real life is 
 no measure to how fun it is to do it without the cops showing up for assualt. It's an all around 
 terrific boxing game. Pick this up tonight! And then try to beat "Dynamite" online [DryvBy84 - 
 Live ID]
  
  ---------------------------------------
  Pros:
  Graphics, physics, character models and textures; fun overall game; best boxing game on next-gen 
 consoles; sound are really good (in some areas) .
  
  Cons:
  Needs more options for the career and more feel for your character; sounds kinda lag at times with 
 the commentary.
  
  Overall:
  Terrific looking and playing game and something you'll hope the other Xbox360 games take advantage 
 of by using high graphics, good sounds, and making everything look photo realistic. Just get this 
 game tonight; then get yer face beat by me! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Smoke89
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 15, 2006 8:22 pm PT
Review:  Madison Square Garden..... where the true hitters and players roll. Fight Night Round 3 puts you 
 in the lights. You start your career as either a classic legend or create your own new boxing legend.
 
  
  First off, the game play. Smooth control with quick jabs a hard hooks followed with devastating 
 hay makers. The game has a handful of controller schemes to fit you as well as different fighting 
 modes. Blocking styles and fighting styles can be adjusted to fit you and your controls. Signature 
 moves can be purchased as well to bring more unique features to your boxer. The game controls very 
 well and the total boxing control on the joystick is a good touch.
  
  The graphics are nothing to be overlooked either. The blood and sweat fly with each punch and you 
 can feel the pain you are dealing. Nothing feels as good as the low bass rumble booming out of 
 a sub with each and every punch and the crowd screaming all around you in 5.1 surround sound. 
 
  
  There is a store to buy your boxer new equipment as he climbs the ranks. Your popularity increases 
 as well as you win more and the $$ begin to pile up. Training is also key to progressing your boxer.
 
  
  All in all this is the best Fight Night game to date. A MUST buy for any boxing fan and still a 
 GREAT buy or even rental if you must for anyone who has some interest in the game or sport. Check 
 this game out, defiantly worth the time! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CTrap33
Rating: 8.6
Date: Feb 22, 2006 5:36 pm PT
Review:  This is a solid game to play. It's just plain fun. The game has great graphics, excellent commentary, 
 easy controls (if you ues configuration 3) , and an addicting, high paced boxing bash.
  
  The gameplay is quite good. There are many things that make the game stand out, along with a few 
 minor problems. The game is very easy to learn, which is good. The difficulty needs improvement 
 as it is very easy to win even on hard difficulty, but against a friend, it doesn't matter at all. 
 Although fighting in career mode does get quite repetitive, the other options that are available 
 in the game hold it together. The customizable options are great. You can change the number of 
 rounds, type of fight, and change some rules such as the 3 knockdown rule.
  
  The graphics are just plain near perfect. If I could rate this graphics in a decimal scale, they 
 would get a 9.7 and not a 9 as there is no perfect looking game. This game is by far the best looking 
 game i have ever played currently. The models are great, the sweat and blood draining down the 
 boxers' faces is just great to watch along with the ripple affect of their skin (which surprisingly 
 ripples on created boxers as well) . You hardly ever see the same knockdown twice which makes it 
 a great thing to watch. They are very life-like but sometimes do glitch. The framerate suffers 
 none at all which is surprising because of the great graphics.
  
  The sound in this game are vastly under appreciated. It is awesome to hear your opponent getting 
 clobbered upside the face with a huge uppercut. The sound also becomes slower as the replay slows 
 down, a great plus as well. You can also hear the boxers breathing heavily if you swing and miss 
 too much. The quality is great!
  
  The value for this game unfortunately can only achieve an 8. The game is repetitive in single player, 
 and is not worth $60. If you have live, this game is great because the different battles are very 
 exciting. If you don't have live (or a friend to play it with) you should probably rent this game 
 first, as single player is not very deep.
  
  I give the tilt in this game a 9 because it is solid all around. There is not one part of this 
 game that has severe flaws, and there are none that truly are perfect. This game is held together 
 by many different things. If one were missing and couldn't back the other part up, this game could 
 suffer a lot more.
  
  In a nut shell, Fight Night 3 is a great all around game built from and improved upon the previous 
 versions. It is the prime example of what a series should be about, getting rid of the bad, and 
 keeping the good while throwing in something new here and there. The great graphics, gameplay, 
 and sound make this game a fun and enjoyable experience for people of all types. Veterans will 
 enjoy the new features, newcomers will love the easy mechanics, and we will all love the amazing 
 graphics that this game incorporates so well. In one sentence, this is a great game to rent, own, 
 and especially enjoy with a friend. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: slightlyst0opid
Rating: 8.9
Date: Feb 22, 2006 2:54 pm PT
Review:  Before i get to anything else let me just say hot damn those are some nice boxer models. The graphic 
 polish on this game will put most next-gen nay sayers in their place. The brutality of the punches 
 is a thing of violent beauty. Still a few times you will see a boxers head move in a odd direction 
 after a punch but most of the time they land very solidly.
  
  The control scheme is pretty much unchanged from past versions which is good. Maybe I'm just not 
 much of a gamer but for my money the old school button control scheme feels much better then analog. 
 Even though boxing just boils down too two men trying to knock one another out with punches, there 
 is a reason it's referred to as the sweet science. Those knowledgeable in boxing and it's deeper 
 strategy will find a very rewarding experience. The ebb and flow in bouts can be as exciting as 
 watching a real boxing match. That being said those with limited interest in the sport probably 
 wont get much enjoyment out of this game after the initial wow wares down.
  
  The sounds of the punches is satisfying and audio clues such as labored breathing are very nice 
 clues to your boxers status. The EA trax are good if you like rap but there really isn't much diversity. 
 The announcer does an ok job of calling the action but suffers from a little of the cut and paste 
 sound after calling the action then putting in the boxers name. Still i do find myself turning 
 on my radio as i play.
  
  There are the occasional technical hiccups but nothing that happened on a frequent basis. All in 
 all it's a good game that true boxing fans will be able to really sink their teeth into and even 
 passing fans should at least rent and see those next gen models pound on each other. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pribylbr
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 22, 2006 2:54 pm PT
Review:  Okay... here's the breakdown of the game. HOLY CRAP!!!!! This game is so serious I can't believe 
 its a video game. When I first started playing I thought it was a demo or something, but then I 
 realized these are really the graphics. My friends saw me playing it and they asked if I was really 
 playing. The gameplay is so life like its unreal. The knockouts are the best part because they 
 do it in slow motion so you can see the guys' jaw break and a little blood spurt our of his mouth. 
 All in all, this game is a must buy! This is a great game to play when you have friends come over 
 because it will keep you laughing and having a good time for hours. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: StanleyHandyman
Rating: 8.4
Date: Feb 28, 2006 1:35 pm PT
Review:  Fight Night Round 3 is a great boxing game a should not be missed.
  
  Gameplay
  Good: Being able to throw punches with the right stick, beating the crap out of people on Xbox 
 Live
  Bad: Get repetitve after a while, repairing after rounds
  
  Graphics
  Good: Charecter models look Amazing, Backgrounds and the crowd look good too
  Bad: Some minor 
 problems that stick out when you see them EDIT=when i look at these mistakes they stick out even 
 more (gloves going through faces in the slow mo scene
  
  Sound
  Good: Bone-crushing hits, pretty good soundtrack
  Bad: Bland and overused commentary
  
  Value
 
  Only playable for so long against the computer, you'll probably play more with your friends
  
  Overall
  If you like boxing or have been looking for a game to show off your 360's power 
 you need to get this game. If your not a fan you should at least rent this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: malowqb16
Rating: 8.9
Date: Feb 22, 2006 1:02 pm PT
Review:  Fight Night Round 3 is a great all-around game. The Career mode is very good, but it gets somewhat 
 repetitive, but very fun. The Online is also very good via Xbox Live. ANd if you have friends that 
 come over alot that like video games will love this game. Its great with two players on the same 
 console. But anyway the graphics r what stick out the most. I love watchin replays. Its just so 
 real. ESPN CLASSIC also is a great addition. Ali vs Fraser is alotta fun. Great all-around game 
 even if you dont like boxing that much! This is EA's best game so far on the 360, SPorts wise i 
 mean. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: perfectone30
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 22, 2006 11:41 am PT
Review:  I find that though the actual game is closely similar to FN2 and some minor clipping issues are 
 still apparent its a SOLID boxing game. I really like the slower pace to matches, and the penalty 
 of trying to throw hay-maker after hay-maker is a good addition. I also find that the graphics 
 for the 360 are mindblowing and crisp like a fall night...... great.... from fan to fighter the polygons 
 are top notch. I wish that the replay between rounds actually showed good highlights from your 
 previous round.... instead of saying "The Natural owned that round" and then watch a replay laced 
 with me getting biffed in the head... kinda lazy. All and all its a pretty game with a serious punch 
 :P 
::::::

::::::
UserName: barkeep
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 22, 2006 10:48 am PT
Review:  Obviously if you'v played the demo the graphics and game play are great. However there are a bunch 
 of annoying bugs on the 360. I still like the despite them but here they are.
  
  Long Loading Times - The mini games take much too long to load a simple screen.
  
  Custom Character 
 Goes Bald - Certain hair styles result in your chatacter going bald after you train. You then have 
 to resave your character to restore it.
  
  Voices report wrong status - Sometimes when you win a fight it says "that was a devastating loss 
 for 'your character's name' "
  
  Character Models collide with Ring - the feet or head sometimes partially go through the floor 
 on a knockdown
  
  After round coaching sounds cut out - Sometimes there are no voices after the fight when your coach 
 tells you what to do next round.
  
  Textures around the characters armpit area always stretch strange.. Looks very odd especially on 
 the female models.
  
  Character editor is very limited only allowing for a few options.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: GeneriKB
Rating: 8.2
Date: Feb 22, 2006 9:53 am PT
Review:  I would say that i'm your typical fan of boxing. I'm not one of those guys that remember many of 
 the boxer's names, I don't care if they have good blocking skills or have good footwork, and I 
 don't care about a boxer narrowly winning by a split decision...
  
  I wanna see people get their teeth knocked out! I wanna see glove hit chin and face hit canvas!
 
  
  That being said, Fight Night Round 3 is my type of boxing game. Here's my review:
  
  Gameplay 8/10:
  EA is pretty well known for slightly exaggerating their sports games, and it's 
 usually for the better (especially for people who aren't all gung ho about uber accuracy) . Although 
 you can try to play a realistic boxing match with an opponent, you'll eventually end up just having 
 a slugfest, delivering haymaker after haymaker until your opponent is taking a canvase nap. It's 
 just too easy to lay down the law with some powerful "special" punches. Unfortunately the computer 
 doesn't play as dirty as you. Because of this, the single player career mode, is insanely easy. 
 Plus, career mode is a bit disconnected... I almost wish there was some kind of story behind why 
 i'm fighting. You always have a pick between multiple contracts, but most of the time it didn't 
 seem like there was any reason to choose one vs. another. Something along the lines of a Def Jam 
 storyline would have been nice.
  
  Multiplayer is where this game really shines. I can play this game against my buddies allllll niiiiight 
 looooong. The controls are very responsive, and the health/stamina/power logic EA has put in place 
 is brilliant. Add a little trash talkin' and you've got a fun night. (my favorite is "kiss yo momma 
 at the bus stop, cuz i'm takin you to school!)
  
  Graphics 9/10:
  Amazing graphics for being one of the first non-launch games to come to the 360. The boxers look 
 very real, but it's the camera work that really makes the game shine. Most of the time your eyes 
 are focused on your opponents head, but for a moment look at the crowd and how the camera blurs 
 them ever so slightly. Great stuff. I took one point off for nitpicky things like... flags not waving, 
 ring girls not very real looking, some clipping, sometimes a funky connection between glove and 
 opponent during KO replays. I am reserving the 10 for the 360 game that completely blows my mind 
 :)
  
  Sound 10/10: Love the music, love the impact sounds, love the announcer... nuff said
  
  Value 
 9/10: Just took a point off because career could use some work, but the multiplayer makes this 
 game one you'll be playing for a lonnnng time :)
  
  Tilt 7/10: I define tilt as the "out of the box wow factor". FNR3 is an amazing game... the graphics 
 are solid, the gameplay is great... but it's not *that* much different than Round 1 and 2. Of course, 
 there's not much you can do to revolutionize a boxing game i guess, but hey it's my review and 
 my opinion! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nickdastick
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 22, 2006 7:37 am PT
Review:  Okay, first off, I don't get why some of the reviewers of this game claim that it is SO easy. I 
 have played it quite a bit since I got it yesterday and I can't take out Frazier with Ali! I knock 
 him down twice and then he blocks everything I throw at him. My created guy is still undefeated 
 so far but I am on my 11th match and I was close to losing my 10th fight. I'm sure if I play it 
 more I will figure out ways to get quick wins but it's not quite as easy as say, IGN makes it out 
 to be. I am happy for this because I love games that pose a good challenge.
  With that out of the way, I would like to say that this is the best boxing game out there! I never 
 get tired of watching the face ripple with a knockdown punch and seeing the face change when punches 
 are thrown and land solid. The ESPN Classic fights are awesome! I still get beat but I am getting 
 closer to winning every time I play. I also like the Career mode because you can do a decent amount 
 with the create a player and the training stuff is cool. Overall, the gameplay is stellar! I love 
 the fact that the guys get tired and you can see it! Your boxer slows down if you just keep throwing 
 big punches and you can hear them breath heavily. It's great! There is no reason not to buy this 
 game and give it at least a 9. To me though, it's an easy 10. Get this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Apoc112
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 22, 2006 6:51 am PT
Review:  EA hasn't done much to change the great gameplay they polished so well for the 2nd game... the 
 minor additions do add some drama and excitement to an already exciting game.
  
  graphics - the first person that knocks the graphics in this game should be forced to purchase 
 a top of the line gaming powerhouse PC and see if they can do any better. As in the videos and 
 demos that we've all seen, these are some jaw-dropping effects.
  
  character models - they look great during the fights and corner work... the replays show the gritty 
 detail of skin imperfections, the ripples of loose skin when a KO blow lands, etc... you can really 
 see the pain on their faces when they get jacked with a powerful shot. One complaint in this area 
 is the lack of detail applied to the hair. With next-gen processing, I'm sure there could have 
 been some effort made to change the hair through the course of the fight. ALSO, the ring girls 
 look beautiful, but WTF is up with their hair not even being modeled to move (like the fighters) ? 
 With so much realism and attention to detail, that's one thing i would have liked to see done better.
 
  
  gameplay - i'm in the transition stages of being able to fight in Config 1 - i was a pretty good 
 fighter in Rd. 2, so config 3 came more naturally to me. From what i hear, you don't have a choice 
 when you play on xbox live (?) , so i'll have to work on my TPC combos.
  
  there is so much more than graphics and gameplay that go into making this game exciting, but for 
 reviewing purposes, i think you just need to play it for yourself. it's worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheRealist02
Rating: 8.6
Date: Feb 22, 2006 6:13 am PT
Review:  Fight Night Round 3 is definitely a game to try out if you even have a hint of intrest in boxing. 
 The stunning visuals and solid gameplay will keep you entertained for hours at a time. When you 
 hear reviews stating that this game takes strategy they are totally correct. You wont be wining 
 any fights swinging away at your opponent, this game forces you to strategize and protect your 
 fighter first rather that become an offensive swinger. The games carrer mode is pretty solid but 
 then again begs for more at times. The news flash that sices up rivalries is pretty cool and going 
 for the title belts makes you feel pretty accomplished but fighing the same boxers over and over 
 again can get tiresome. All in all this a great boxing game that is worth the $60 price tag. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: killa178
Rating: 9.8
Date: Feb 22, 2006 4:04 am PT
Review:  I just got this game and play it with my friend and it is awesome. It looks so real when you punch 
 a guy. There face move just like when you get hit on real life. Also the cuts are so freaking real. 
 They look real and a lot of bledding comes from there. Especially when you get hit. When you get 
 hit a lot of times were you are cut, you are going to start bledding more than hell. When you are 
 beating the game is really fun. You get to practice some cool stuff on the gym. So the gameplay 
 of this game is really awesome and good. The graphics, can't even talk about it. Just think the 
 graphics looks like reality. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZZoMBiE13
Rating: 8.9
Date: Feb 22, 2006 12:45 am PT
Review:  **It should be noted that this review is geared toward the single player experience in FNr3. The 
 online and vs modes have not been explored well enough for me to offer judgement at this time. 
 If you want info on the XBL features or the vs modes you should look elsewhere**
  
  The Fight Night series has made it's place in the world as the premier boxing game. Never before 
 has a video game made such strides to capture the adrenalyn fueled action that is boxing. The use 
 of the right thumbstick to handle all the punch controls is a stroke of genius that leaves the 
 button mashing boxing brethren of the past out in the cold. 
  
  All that being said, the real point of this is to rate the third installment in the series. And 
 luckily for those of us with a 360 and a love of boxing, Fight Night round 3 manages to capture 
 the same engaging gameplay of the previous two installments and wrap it up in a big pile o' pretty 
 with the help of the 360 graphical muscle. 
  
  The third offering also manages to return with a better sense of balance over round two. The haymaker 
 is still an effective weapon in the ring, but it is no longer the unstoppable and unbalanced powerhouse 
 of destruction it was in FNr2. If you use the move right it can be an invaluable tool to use in 
 your opponents undoing. But try to overuse it, and you will find yourself stopped cold and on the 
 ground as the refreshing and challenging AI will predict and counter you to death if you dont mix 
 up your arsenal. 
  
  GRAPHICS
  The graphics in FNr3 are as expected. They look great. From the character models to the crowds 
 to the rings you fight in, everything is rendered in wonderful detail from top to bottom. Knockdowns 
 are as thrilling as they ever have been and the slow motion scenes of the knock out punches are 
 a wonder to behold. 
  
  SOUND
  There isn't a whole lot to be said about the sound that hasn't already been said. Everything from 
 the punch sound effects to the crunching sounds when you get a knock down replay, it's all perfectly 
 suited to the game. Boxers grunt and "ugh" appropriately and the ring announcer and commentators 
 are spot on as well. Although really, while it all fits in nicely, it is a bit standard and not 
 really any upgrade from the last installments. The soundtrack is the same mix of hip hop that the 
 series has always used as it's musical cornerstone and they are fitting, but mostly forgettable 
 tracks when it comes right down to it. A broader mix of musical genres would help this series out 
 enourmously. 
  
  GAMEPLAY
  The same Fight Night gameplay from the previous versions returns in full effect with a few new 
 tweaks as you would expect from an EA Sports series. The roster is pretty much the same as ever 
 and of course the create-a-champ mode is wonderfully flexible. Although there is no longer any 
 way to customize your entrance effects in any way, but that can be a blessing in many ways. 
  The difficulty is well balanced and offers a decent challenge at the default "Medium" setting. 
 There are also easy and hard modes for players of varrying skill and experience level. And above 
 all this game capture the most important element in a video game. Simply put, it is fun. Winning 
 a match is exhillarating and even if you lose you never feel cheated. You will simply feel outmatched 
 and like you need to work harder to take on your opponents. This is a perfect balance of challenge 
 and more games would do well to offer this level of competition and skill level customization. 
 
  
  TILT
  If you like boxing, or just like fighting games in general, there is a lot to like in the 360 version 
 of FNr3. It belongs in the collection if this is your type of gaming experience. And, If you are 
 on the fence about it, why not download the demo to see if it is your thing or not. It's free to 
 download from the XBL marketplace and is a good representation of the finished product. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LukeAF24
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 22, 2006 2:50 pm PT
Review:  When I first plugged in FNR3, like most of you, I was blown away by the graphical prowess this 
 game has. It looks amazing, and the best looking game ever made. That is where my shock and awe 
 ended.
  
  The game play in this game is a cut and paste copy of FNR2 but, this is a clear case of, if it 
 isn't broke, don't fix it. The analog punching is still genious.
  The career mode is stripped down. The ranking system has been replaced by a "popularity" meter, 
 which never really shows you where you rank. 
  
  The difficulty on this game can get somewhat absurd. You are forced to turn up the difficulty, 
 as the game is way to easy at the default setting. Yet on the hardest setting is way to hard. A 
 large chunk of the time, the AI know what punch you are winding up for, even a jab, and is the 
 parry position accordingly.
  
  Also, I would like the invisible "bubble" that is created around boxers to disappear. When I have 
 a guy backed into a corner or ropes, I should be able to be right ontop of him, pounding him silly. 
 Instead, there is in invisible barrier which the two players, so they cannot get close enough to 
 one another. It gets rather annoying after awhile.
  
  My biggest gripe with this game is the silly advertisments. Do we seriously need to see Burger 
 King 24/7? I think not. Shame on you EA for taking every dollar tossed your way, you lost a bit 
 respect from me.
  
  This game is for sure worth checking out but, the frills and thrills will quickly fade after you 
 get by how pretty it looks. It plays exactly the same, with a run down career mode. Great graphics 
 do not Next-Gen make.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Equality3531
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 21, 2006 10:19 pm PT
Review:  All i can say is that this is one of the best all around games that i have ever had the grace to 
 play... its amazing and it an all around excellent gaming experience. Im so surpised that EA actually 
 squeaked this amazing game out... this is a game quality which was previously unseen by EA games... 
 i am extremely impressed. The punches in this game are absolutely visceral and i would definately 
 recommend this to just about anyone... A MUST BUY IF YOU HAVE A 360!! I also came away very impressed 
 with the online... i am very surprised that this game runs as well as it actually does with EA's 
 online servers which normally tended to suck... really badly... Great job with this game EA!!! 
 I might yet still have some faith in you! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Optimusv2
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 21, 2006 8:56 pm PT
Review:  What else is there to say this is flat out the best boxing game ever and this game sports flat 
 out the most realistic looking player models of any game ever made.
  
  The gameplay is amazing, its even more fun over xbox live (xbox live REALLY makes you understand 
 how great a game this is)
  
  When I first tried the demo on xbox live i seriously found it hard to believe that I was controlling 
 such an amazing looking game. Truly next gen in every sense of the word. This game is just stunning 
 if this is what we can expect from sports titles then I'm dying to see what the next version of 
 madden, nba live or even nba 2k6 flat out I have very high expectations for every sports game from 
 now on. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EddieA3
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 21, 2006 8:47 pm PT
Review:  The xbox live downloadable demo of this game, had 360 owners addicted and wanting more, and more 
 they have received!!! EA sports took the demo they released, and turned it into a classic boxing 
 game unlike any previously released. The graphics are superb, and give you that next gen feel that 
 other 360 games havn't really delivered. 
  
  This game lacks a solid one player mode (career mode) , but ehh I bought this game to be a xbox 
 live played game, and in that aspect it is awesome. When playing the computer, there isn't much 
 of a fight on their behalf, and its pretty easy to defeat the computer, you know what that means 
 right? That's right easy gamer points! The achievements are fairly easy to unlock, some people 
 find that a flaw, I find it not a problem. This game is a must buy for 360 owners looking for a 
 solid mulitplayer game, as well as a incrediable online experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joshua6775
Rating: 8.1
Date: Feb 21, 2006 8:06 pm PT
Review:  EA Sports' latest release, Fight Night Round 3 for Xbox360 is a good, fun game. Those fortunate 
 enough to be playing this game on a High-definition TV will no doubt be seeing some eye-popping 
 graphics and animations unseen in any of the series' previous incarnations. That alone makes this 
 game a must see, even if it's just as a rental.
  
  The total punch control system is tight and surprisingly responsive. With the addition of Impact 
 punches, you can literally take a fight over and have your opponent down in no time. Beware that 
 relying too heavily on these punches can leave you open to taking a beating of your own, so work 
 Impact punching into a strategy as opposed to having it be your bread and butter. 
  
  The AI of the computer controlled fighter seems to be a little predictable, but focuses on teaching 
 you new things each time. For instance, some AI fighters block and dodge more than others will, 
 forcing you to strategize accordingly. Some fighters are more aggressive, forcing you to duck, 
 block and parry more than you may be used to. As you pummel your way through the ranks, you will 
 no doubt round out your skills as you face new challengers in the ring.
  
  Sadly, little is offered in the way of customizing your own boxer. You can choose basics like skintone, 
 height, weight, tattoos, hair, etc., but the customization feature falls short of other EA offerings 
 like Tiger Woods 06. 
  This doesn't necessarily take away from the overall look of the game, but having more options would've 
 been nice.
  
  I'd have to say the main gripe I have personally with this game is the (lack of) difficulty in 
 career mode. I found myself battering opponents so badly on the default setting that I turned it 
 up a notch by about my 7th fight. Sadly, I still felt like I was able to decimate the computer 
 with very little effort. Online seems to be where this game will have it's brightest hour.
  
  At the time of this review, I haven't checked out much Online. I'm hoping to get more into 
 that in the near future, but I'd like to beef my fighter up some before I do. 
  
  I like this game. I'm just not sure I'll like it as much for long, though. It gets a little repetitive 
 bashing AI fighters by yourself, and the training is painfully simple. I'm just thankful that the 
 series is FINALLY online. That's what made the very first Knockout Kings so great.... being able 
 to take it to your buddies and runneth smack while tempers flare in the room. Now we can do that 
 in stunning HD next-gen style via Xbox Live. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: nappan
Rating: 6.9
Date: Feb 21, 2006 8:04 pm PT
Review:  Really, when a game like this comes out the most important aspect of it should be replay value. 
 After all, sports games can be the most repetitive of all games if not made well. The hell of it 
 is, this game is really really repetitve, and boring. It looks absolutely stunning, it sounds great, 
 and it's fun for a while, but then it just stops being fun. If this were a racing game it would 
 have GT graphics, Burnout sound and gameplay... but only 3 cars and tracks. For me, that makes 
 this a rental if you love boxing, and not worth even that if you don't. Frankly, I'd prefer clunkier 
 graphics and sound and richer and more varied gameplay. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jmichael1
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 21, 2006 7:27 pm PT
Review:  Best boxing game ever created. IT has the sickest graphics that puts boxing games on a new level. 
 Fully customize your characters every aspect, Then challenge him against the worlds top fighters 
 in totally realiistic rings. Some people have said they dont like the new career mode but personally 
 i like it because its a new twist on the fight to number 1 boxer idea. This game is one of the best 
 released games for the 360 to date and wll most likely hold its own for time to come. If you have 
 heard of the sport boxing youll be interested in picking this up It wont let u down garunteed. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ThaGrateOne
Rating: 8.2
Date: Feb 21, 2006 7:23 pm PT
Review:  This game is good. This game is what you are expecting. This game has it's flaws. Overall I can 
 say it is not perfect. It is very hard to say wow... I spent $60+ dollars for a game that... ugh. 
 I wanted something new for my Xbox360... and yea I really hate paying more for same GENERATION DVD 
 technology that is going to fade out before you know it. It isn't fair that this game isn't really 
 NEXT GEN. There are to many imperfections to call this NEXT GENERATION technology. It does look 
 good... and it is like the 360 can not keep up with the speed of the game.... due to alot of slow 
 downs in the action. If the game was...$45 to $49.99... yea it would be justified due to the game 
 will last a year.. and another will come out.... then the price will be over half..... BEWARE it will 
 not feel like an expecive game. It is good.... just don't think it is NEXT GENERATION all the way 
 through. The concept is good and the game is really nice... yea there is alot of loading also... NEXT 
 GENERATION should improve on that. If you are a fan of the Fight Night Series... yes get it. Yes 
 the computer blocks to much 
::::::

::::::
UserName: merriJ
Rating: 8.9
Date: Feb 21, 2006 6:39 pm PT
Review:  360 Version
  I've played every boxing video game from old school Ring King to FN Rd3. Few boxing games are able 
 to pull off the feeling or excitement of a good fight. FN Rd3 does just that and everything from 
 emotionally pulling you in to knocking your lights out. 
  I played the ESPN Classic Match on HARD difficulty and found myself totally enthralled by the experience. 
 I'm not going to talk about the obvious and that's the graphics, they're awesome. What I'm going 
 to talk about is the gameplay. It feels very much like the 2005 version, not much has changed but 
 more or less improved upon. The new impact punches feel great and add depth to the fighters arsenal 
 but are difficult to execute. Also the increased variety of fighting styles add some personality 
 to help every bout feel unique but still needs some more work to make every fighter feel authentic. 
 For example, Mike Tyson's PunchOut set the bar high for personalities in boxing video games. So 
 Rd3 still has some work to do in this department but does not disappoint. The fighters punches 
 feel more affected by fatigue which is a good thing. It gives it more of a natural feeling rather 
 than button mashing or HayMakering your way to a K. O. Overall the gameplay is great and feels like 
 EA is working hard to virtually blacken eyes and break noses.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarthDravvid
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 21, 2006 5:43 pm PT
Review:  Well, let me say, on the record, that I'm giving this game a 10 out of 10 because it more than 
 deserves it. I've only played a few matches in career mode, but I'm hooked. I was hooked when I 
 started playing the same match over and over in the demo. The creation system is detailed, but 
 easy to pick up and control. The controls are tight, and the graphics? What graphics? I could've 
 sworn I was controlling a real boxing match on tv. The sound is absolutely crisp as you can hear 
 all the little crackles in the replays of knockdowns. Just one word... WOW!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thegodfatherIV
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 21, 2006 4:30 pm PT
Review:  With success coming from its predecessors (Fight Night 2004, Fight Night: Round 2) , you should 
 have anticipated that Fight Night: Round 3 would be even better. You were right. 
  
  Fight Night: Round 3 makes up for most of Xbox 360's failures by contributing variety and stunning 
 graphics to the system. Round 3 takes full advantage of the 360's system, and holds nothing back. 
 In my opinion, Round 3's graphics are the best for the Xbox 360 yet. You could literally feel the 
 pain you cause your opponents in the game. The best facial expressions I've ever seen in any videogame 
 to date.
  
  Round 3's variety of gameplay modes and customization only adds to its success. ESPN Classic Mode 
 is a nice addition to the Fight Night series and allows you to relive some of the greatest rivalries 
 in boxing history. Round 3 also offers a wide variety of new-to-the-game boxers, such as Oscar 
 De La Hoya. Create-A-Boxer returns and is better than ever. New fighting styles are available to 
 you such as the Philly Shell and cross defences. And finally, I'm happy to say, Haymakers do not 
 make a fight one-sided anymore. You will now throw a 'slow' Haymaker, making it convenient for 
 both new players and veteran alike.
  
  The only failures I've recognized in Round 3 is its just above average Sound. The soundtrack is 
 once again mediocre, and to me, the commentary only adds to its demise. But, other than that, Round 
 3 is in my opinion the best Xbox 360 game to launch yet.
  
  8.8/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lauryn2000
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 21, 2006 3:53 pm PT
Review:  Wow, this game, the gameplay is mind blowing. Never in a boxing sim game have I ever experienced hitting 
 my opponent in the nose and actually feeling the impact of the hit. With "new" cinematic look to 
 the game this is definately a ground breaking game for the Xbox360, EA sports and video gaming as 
 we know it today. In career mode I fought in middleweight division, the first two fights are kinda 
 of slow and repetitious. Once you start making your way up the ranks, you definately must start using 
 what you practiced in the training gym. Haymakers and instant knockouts won't work as well as you 
 start fighting more experienced fighters. If anything you wear your fighter out and probably set 
 him up to be knocked out himself from lack of discipline with his punches. The only hang up that 
 I did have is when you have your opponent on the ropes, a matter of two or three combo hits will 
 knock him out. All you have to do is move in quickly to finish him off, for some reason the controller 
 is a little slow to make this move. Sometimes giving your opponent a chance to regain a little bit 
 of his stamina. The graphics are wonderful, when you hit you opponent or are on the receiving end 
 of a punch. You will see hair, nose, eyes, face, and lips move with the blow from the punch. Fight Round 
 3 seems to move a little slower than Fight Night Round 2 but it is a minor annoyance that you will 
 forgive EA for.
  Definately a must have for Xbox360 video game collection even if you are not a boxing fan. It gets 
 a 9.2 out of 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Serialkillajoe
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 21, 2006 2:22 pm PT
Review:  This game is probaly better than perfect dark and call of duty 2, Its revolutionary. It shows what 
 the graphics will look like in the future of gaming. 
  
  First off is the graphics, To me Unbelievable. The lighting, blood/sweat , etc. everything in this 
 game that has to do with graphics is perfect. Nuff said
  
  Next is the Gameplay, Also very good. It is not as stellar as the graphics but it is still extremly 
 good. It just feels like your really a boxer punching away at the guy like your trying to kill 
 him.
  
  Next is the sound, It is very good from a standpoint. The punching sounds are extremly well done 
 but the only downfall is the soundrtack. There arent many diffrent kinds of Rap singers that people 
 have heard of. If your a diehard fan of Rap, this will be a guilty pleasure for sound.
  
  Finnally, this game is definltly a buy. I wished it were $50 dollars and i would of then gave the 
 value a 10. Anyways just go out and buy this game if you have a 360 system!!!
  
  9/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kinco360
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 21, 2006 12:47 pm PT
Review:  I was hesitant about getting this game, but that was soon replaced with utter and absolute awe. 
 Right from the get-go this game draws you in. It utilizes the same fighting system you may be used 
 to from Fight Night Round 2. As I always do in boxing games, I practiced using Ali VS. Frazier 
 to write this review. One thing that I really found myself enjoying was the face and body animations 
 when you successfully strike an opponent. A good hook or haymaker will have your oppenent's jaws 
 flapping and you can see every bit of blood and saliva flying from your stunned opponent's bruised-up 
 mouth. The only downside for me while playing this game is the return of the lame and mediocre 
 hip-hop inspired soundtrack. Other than that, the sound quality is superb. This game is not for 
 the novice gamer, as you might find yourself losing fight after fight. Strategy is definately the 
 key to this game. Easily an early contender for sports game of the year. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RemFreeman
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 21, 2006 11:41 am PT
Review:  Pulling the game out of the box, I was a bit excited to finally play this game. Upon putting it 
 into my 360, I was not disappointed. The graphics in this game are crisp and the play is flawless. 
 Also, it is quite addictive, which can be a problem if you're in college like me. The character 
 models are astounding, as well as the physical damage one can view on their player models. This 
 game is one of the few thus far to try to take advantage of the capabilities of this next-gen system. 
 One of my few gripes thus far is the same complaint I had with the last game of the series, which 
 is the difficulty found in this game has the tendancy to step up rather quickly, leaving the player 
 gasping for air. That being said, Fight Night Round 3 is a fabulous game and a must own for all 
 fighting game lovers for the Xbox 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: timmy343
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 21, 2006 10:54 am PT
Review:  When i downloaded the demo, i loved it. then i picked up the game today, and at first i didnt think 
 it was all the great, probably due to being in the same ring for so long, and fighting easy guys. well 
 once i got past being an amature, the game is so much fun. most realistic game ive ever seen, and 
 very very fun. I havent tried it online yet, but hopefully it will be nice and lag free. This is 
 one of the top contenders for best 360 game yet, and might keep up with ghost recon depeneding 
 on how that turns out. Great game, GO BUY IT NOW! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: inuyasha2338
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 21, 2006 4:18 am PT
Review:  This is the best boxing game I ever had. When i got it home, I jumped on the cheir and started 
 to play it like crazy. The impact punchs are tight. If you follow your punchs with the right anologe 
 stick and you can't get a pritty good hit. Once you get into it, you won't even know the difference 
 between real life and that game. So plz people, go see a doctor before you get into a fight with 
 somone in real life. Cause cheat codes like X, B, A don't work in real life. 
  
  BUY THIS GAME. WHY ARE YOU STILL THERE. GET UP AND BUY IT 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bob139th
Rating: 8.4
Date: Feb 21, 2006 2:07 am PT
Review:  
  
  I can't disagree more than with the readers who give this game a perfect score. This game looks 
 great, has great features and has a very nice career mode. But at the same time, the AI is horrible, 
 oh and yeah... I am talking about the Hardest level.
  
  I am not sure of the frame rate but I am almost sure that it's not a consistent 60. The game slowed 
 down a few times and in less than 24 hours of playing the game, I already witnessed my feet going 
 thru the mat and the rope becoming part of my body, maybe it was the beat down my boy gave me... nah!
 
  
  But it has some real cool features, no longer can u see your health meter or what ever they called 
 it. Now u just see the fatigue on a boxer face and you'll instantly know, its time to go for the 
 kill..
  
  Go get this game and you will have a blast against the A. I for a week, tops!
  If you have some friends constantly over, you'll love it even more. But it does have some flaws 
 and it should not be over looked. So please stop with the perfect scores. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zaqcdebgt9513
Rating: 9.7
Date: Feb 20, 2006 6:39 pm PT
Review:  This is definitely one of the best games the Xbox 360 has to offer. It's addicting gameplay and 
 breath taking graphics offer hours of fun and excitment. The create a boxer mode is tight and offers 
 many interesting features for any boxing fan. This is actually my first boxing game to date, but 
 it really wants to make me check out the other Fight Nights. 
  
  This game doesn't have many bad features. The only thing i dislike about the game, is thatthe punches 
 don't look as powerful as they should, but it's an easy thing to get past. 
  
  If your tired of playing career mode, then try it out online. Online offers a more difficult challenge, 
 and it's fun as hell. Rarely any lag at all. 
  
  So, to sum it up, if you looking for an addictive, lengthy, exciting game with outstanding visuals, 
 good AI, nice music, and the ability to beat the crap out of your friends and people around the 
 world, then check out this game. You won't regret it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thekey
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 20, 2006 5:11 pm PT
Review:  What more can I say this game rocks! This game has every thing that a fighting / boxing would want. 
 It has an array of boxing favorites from the great Muhamad Ali, to the not so great Artoro Goti. 
 There's 32 licensed boxers in the game with unique styles of boxing and many characteristics of 
 there real life counter parts. The BEST boxing game since the days of final blow! This is a must 
 for all brawling fans. 
  
  Controls: Controls like a dream! Nuff said 
  
  Graphics: Superb!
  
  Sound: realistic!
  
  Value: Boxing fans must have this game (especially 
 the 360 version)
  
  Highly recommended! Go out and get this game and if you get board with the single player game, 
 get online!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kaluaj
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 20, 2006 4:43 pm PT
Review:  If you are even the slittest fan of Fight night, you will love this game for ever. For those of 
 you that actually have a 360, this is a game that you need to pick up. The visuals can speak for 
 them selfs but the smooth yet detailed game play is freaken sweet. EA hit the nail on the head 
 with this one. The sound lines up good, and the knockout and round replays are beautiful. The only 
 thing that i can come up with to be a knock on it is that if you don't like realism stay away from 
 the 360 version and stick with 2nd gen (ps2, xbox) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dexdi1
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 20, 2006 10:29 am PT
Review:  this game has all to be one of the great in the xbox 360 it has all that it takes it has next-gen 
 graphics and a very good sound and music the game is just perfect think about it like the best 
 game ever why i will tell you that its a perfect family game and the type that you play with your 
 friends its easy to learn about the technique of playing you will have hours of fun with this awesome 
 game.
  
  The series of fight night it always have a great game and handling thats all that makes it perfec.
 
  
  Well thats my little review.
  
  DEXDI1
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: b_wilcox
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 20, 2006 8:57 am PT
Review:  There may be some minor quibbles about the AI, but this is as spectacular a sports title as you'll 
 find on any console. 
  
  It's one thing to have incredible visuals in a game, but Fight Night Round 3 for the XBox 360 is 
 probably one of the first releases in recent memory that gets so much depth from them. The sweat 
 and blood, the bruises and the bumps -- these are not mere showpieces. They're necessities in a game 
 like this because EA Chicago wants to create the most accurate depiction of the sweet science that 
 it can. In other words, it's pretty, but with a purpose. The audio programming is similarly motivated: 
 commentary and ring effects are not viewed as extras, but as essentials.
  
  Behind this more-is-more philosophy is a terrific game with lots of options. Fight Night Round 
 3 is a deep and engaging title with good control schemes and rich modes. It's a game that both 
 the tactician and the button masher can embrace, because it gives both plenty of room for enjoyment.
 
  
  Are some of the fights simply too easy? Perhaps. But that's not a terrible indictment for the first 
 boxing game on the XBox 360. Since EA Sports' previous ventures on the console have been generally 
 awful, any slights about the AI of the boxers is simply a petty gripe.
  
  This is a great sign of things to come for frustrated 360 owners. Maybe it'll put up a fight against 
 the PS3 after all. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
