-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Final Fantasy XI
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/xbox360/rpg/finalfantasy11/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Features some unmistakable Final Fantasy characters and music.
 Deep, time-tested gameplay has kept players glued for months or years.
 An absolutely huge gameworld, thanks partly to three included expansion packs.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Preposterously long installation period, plus layers of unnecessary inconvenience.
 Virtually nothing done to enhance the experience for the Xbox 360.
 Slowly paced action and exploration caters almost exclusively to the hardcore.
 Tough-to-swallow monthly fees required.
 Not a single unlockable achievement, unlike every other 360 game.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Apr 28, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6
Critic Score: 6.9, 32 Review (s)
User Score: 7.4, 1,878 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Square Enix
Genre: Fantasy Online...
Date: Apr 18, 2006
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
While this online role-playing game may have been a hit for the PC and PlayStation 2, it feels very 
 awkward and entirely out of place on the Xbox 360. 

  There's something to be said for a game that can stand the test of time. Final Fantasy XI Online 
 dates back to 2002, when it was originally released in Japan. Clearly inspired by the influential 
 massively multiplayer PC game EverQuest, FFXI infused the online role-playing formula with the 
 distinctive look and feel of Square Enix's hugely popular franchise. The game naturally attracted 
 thousands of players, many of whom stuck with FFXI over the long haul, since it featured a deep 
 character class system and a huge, evolving world to explore. However, it's simply impossible to 
 look at FFXI for the Xbox 360 in the same way as the previously released PC and PlayStation 2 versions. 
 Paradoxically, that's because this latest translation of the game is essentially no different than 
 the others. It makes no concessions whatsoever to take advantage of the Xbox 360, and it practically 
 goes out of its way to inconvenience and alienate new players. If you're addicted to FFXI already, 
 now you can play it in HD on the Xbox 360 if you feel like buying another copy. But if you've avoided 
 the game up until now, you'd best keep that up.  

          Final Fantasy XI for the Xbox 360 is essentially identical to the aging online RPG that's 
 long since been available for the PC and PlayStation 2.     

  It's not that this is an inherently bad game -- far from it. In theory, it offers tremendous lasting 
 appeal, an incredibly vast world to explore, and lots of exciting character-development options. 
 Despite borrowing the conventions of many other online role-playing games, FFXI has many unique 
 traits and a distinctive style that can be very appealing. Most notably, the game features a whole 
 slew of different character classes inspired by the Final Fantasy series, and eventually you can 
 mix and match the abilities of these to suit your preference. From beastmasters to bards, the game's 
 sheer variety of character options is remarkable, though initially (and for a while) only a few 
 standard job types are available. Furthermore, FFXI offers plenty of story-driven content for those 
 willing to undertake the numerous missions and quests that comprise the game's plot as well as 
 its underlying political system, in which three rival nations struggle to control the world of 
 Vana'diel. Tons of different trade guilds, a bazaar and auction house system, a huge variety of 
 different weapons and equipment, and different modes of transportation, including massive airships 
 and fast-running chocobos, also help add depth to the world.  

  However, the core of FFXI -- and most online RPGs, for that matter -- is exploration, combat, and leveling 
 up. The game's sprawling environments and initially slow-paced combat makes the underlying action 
 feel like a chore even early on. Inevitably, you'll want to find a group of like-minded players 
 and hunker down to kill the same monsters over and over, in order to gain experience and level 
 up in your chosen job. It's possible to change jobs at any time back at town -- so if you're a 20th-level 
 warrior, you can switch to being a black mage or a monk, though you'll wind up back at level one 
 and basically have to start leveling up all over again. As if to force you to change jobs often, 
 the game limits you to just one character slot, unless you pay extra on top of an already fairly 
 steep monthly fee. Considering you're probably already paying for an Xbox Live Gold account, the 
 need to pay a monthly fee is a considerable disincentive. For what it's worth, you don't need to 
 have a paid Xbox Live account to play this game, though.  

  What you do need is a great deal of spare time and patience... and a USB keyboard, since typing 
 is really the only effective way to communicate with other players in the game. Just beginning 
 play for the very first time literally takes close to three hours, from the hour it takes just 
 to install the game to your Xbox 360 hard drive (the game gobbles up more than a third of the total 
 amount of free space on that thing) , to the hour it takes to update the game files once you connect, 
 to the hour it takes to enter about half a dozen registration codes and, finally, spending a few 
 minutes to create your character. Like other versions of FFXI, this game is unfortunately saddled 
 within Square Enix's PlayOnline viewer, a shell that provides you with a free e-mail address and 
 some other completely unnecessary services. It must be an inextricable part of the game, but all 
 it does here is make it more difficult for you to jump into a session of FFXI.  

          You might reasonably assume some changes or improvements would be made to enhance this 
 game for a powerful system like the Xbox 360. But you'd be wrong.     

  Once you're in the game, you'd better get comfortable, because the slow pacing means you'll have 
 little to show for your time spent unless you play for at least several hours at a time. You'll 
 also find it's almost impossible to make progress after a while unless you join a well-coordinated 
 group of players. And after you manage to find an adequate group and start slowly grinding your 
 way toward your next level, killing monster after monster, you'll naturally pressure each other 
 to keep playing. In the past few years, online role-playing games have evolved to cater to more 
 types of players, by doing a better job of accommodating people with less time on their hands or 
 those who prefer the option to play solo. Such games as World of Warcraft and City of Heroes have 
 attempted to become less restrictive, easier to get into, better looking, and simply more fun than 
 their predecessors. By comparison, a game like FFXI feels like work, not play. No wonder the game's 
 character classes are called jobs.     

  Another issue worth mentioning is that, for better or worse, FFXI throws all kinds of different 
 players into the mix. That means you'll run into Japanese players running the PS2 version of the 
 game, American players running the PC version of the game, and so on. Most of them have probably 
 been at it for months already, so don't expect much sympathy as you try to learn the ropes. Don't 
 expect the game to do a good job of teaching you the ropes, either. The manual spends about as 
 much time explaining the registration process as it does telling you how to play, and the game 
 itself pretty much drops you into the world without any instruction. At least the PlayOnline service 
 itself offers some advice, though in FFXI, you'll have to learn most everything the hard way... or 
 hope that an experienced player is kind enough to walk you through some of the finer points of 
 etiquette, grouping, combat, macros, travel, and so on. Prepare for a frustrating uphill battle 
 just trying to get your bearings in Vana'diel.  

          If you can get past the extremely steep learning curve, FFXI does offer a tremendous amount 
 of content to explore.     

  Part of what's traditionally made online role-playing games so enticing is the promise of feeling 
 totally immersed in authentic fantasy worlds. In other words: good graphics. If nothing else, it's 
 nice for a really time-consuming game to look attractive, since you're going to be staring at it 
 for so long. When FFXI was first released for the PC and PS2, it looked great, thanks to some signature 
 Final Fantasy touches. Those very same graphics on the Xbox 360 don't look so hot anymore, though. 
 Short of bumping up the resolution to support widescreen HD displays, nothing was done to make 
 this game presentable by the Xbox 360's standards. You can still look forward to some decent character 
 graphics and environments, but this game looks seriously below par, and rough edges like an inexplicably 
 uneven frame rate and distant objects suddenly popping up on the horizon hurt it further. Thankfully, 
 the audio has stood the test of time better. The game's got a great soundtrack, and makes effective 
 use of surround-sound audio systems if you've got one.  

  For all the problems that make this game so hard to approach, the allure of so much content to 
 explore may still compel you to give the game a shot. With your purchase of FFXI for the Xbox 360 
 come three different expansion packs in addition to the core game. The Rise of the Zilart expansion 
 shipped with all previous North American versions of the game, and introduced several new high-level 
 character classes (the dragoon, the samurai, and the ninja) as well as new places to explore. The 
 subsequent Chains of Promathia expansion catered exclusively to high-level players, offering them 
 much more story-driven content to experience. The newest expansion, released alongside the Xbox 
 360 version of FFXI, is Treasures of Aht Urhgan, and it adds still more job types to the mix: the 
 blue mage, the corsair, and the puppetmaster. Since changing your character's job fundamentally 
 affects how you play, these additions are naturally exciting. High-level players will also naturally 
 want to explore the dusty new lands of Aht Urhgan, including its vast fortress city. However, while 
 each of these expansion packs add substantial amounts of content, none of them are likely to even 
 come into play until you've already invested dozens of hours in the game. So while FFXI has grown 
 over time, it hasn't really evolved. One of these expansion packs might have done something about 
 the interface or the graphics, for example.  

          It's no accident that thousands of players have been hooked to FFXI for months, but there's 
 not much good reason to join them now.     

  FFXI has always been a source of controversy among fans of the series, simply because it's the 
 first game in the series proper to stray from Final Fantasy's roots. However, FFXI still had the 
 air and allure of a Final Fantasy game to attract a fiercely loyal following, and the gameplay 
 hooked them. Yet whatever mystique there was surrounding FFXI is gone now, and what's left is a 
 great, big game that's almost intolerably cumbersome. If you're very brave, masochistic, or stubborn, 
 you might find some rewarding experiences in FFXI. But chances are good that you won't. Considering 
 this is the first time the Final Fantasy series has appeared on the Xbox, it's hard not to feel 
 sorely disappointed by the slapdash job done in clumsily pushing this game onto the 360.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (136 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: mjhacker
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 30, 2009 5:15 pm PT
Review:  Final Fantasy XI first came to North American shores about 6 years ago, with its first expansion 
 included with the retail game. Since then, there have been 3 more expansions and a ton of content 
 added. The possibilities are almost limitless in this game. But before you play, you have one question 
 - is this the right game for me? This review is more about telling you what you need and what you 
 can expect if you decide to pick up this highly addictive substance.
  
  The Xbox 360 version of this game, with all expansions installed, will take up about 11 GB of your 
 HDD. If you don't have a hard drive, you can't play. If you've got a 20 GB, you may have to make 
 some room. Just make sure you've got the space.
  
  Got the HDD? Good. Now, you're going to need a USB keyboard, preferably a wireless one. The chatpad 
 is probably not the best option, because it is missing some important keys, not to mention you're 
 going to be able to type much faster with a real keyboard. I highly recommend a Logitec wireless 
 keyboard, as I have had bad experiences with off-brand wireless USB keyboards simply not working.
 
  
  Now, the question is whether or not you want to buy the game! As of the time of this writing (3/30/09) , 
 You can buy the Vana'diel Collection 2008 (game + all 4 expansions) for about $20 at major retailers. 
 That's a pretty low cost for a lot of content, and it comes with a 30 day free trial, too. After 
 your trial ends, the cost is $12.95 per month for 1 character, and an additional $1.00 per month 
 for each additional character. You really just need 1 character, since you can change jobs as many 
 times as you want in game, but you can have up to 16 if you'd like.
  
  Now that I've talked about cost, what about gameplay? One of my biggest problems with the game 
 is that it can be very unfriendly to new players, because it doesn't bother explaining things very 
 well. There are numerous guides online to help you get started, and Square Enix has made newbie 
 videos on PlayOnline's website to help you get started. Some excellent resources include ffxiclopedia. com 
 and ffxi. allakhazam. com just to name a few.
  
  To get the most out of leveling your character, it's best if you can play in 2-3 hour blocks. If 
 you don't have this kind of time, it's still possible to play, but you may find yourself struggling 
 to get exp. If you're a new player, you will be happy to learn that Square Enix has made leveling 
 much easier with the inclusion of the "Level Sync" system - the ability for higher level players 
 to temporarily level down to match a player in the party and still earn exp - and the "Fields of 
 Valor" system, which gives small monster-killing quests that reward you with a decent experience 
 and gil bonus upon killing all the monsters. Think of it like monster bounty hunting! It makes 
 the game much more enjoyable and may give you something to do while waiting to get a party started.
 
  
  One of the greatest aspects of this game is its community. The people (for the most part; there 
 are always exceptions) are friendly, fun, and very helpful. By being nice people, you make friends, 
 get invited to parties, and get linkpearls. It's in everyone's best interest to help each other 
 and work together; after all, it's a social game.
  
  My biggest complaint about the game is that its interface is not very intuitive. It's extremely 
 menu based. Creating macros helps ease this a bit (there are resources online on creating macros) , 
 but it's still annoying. Quests and missions are usually so vague that you could never figure it 
 out on your own. Again, online resources are invaluable to aid you in this plight.
  
  What? No actual review, you say? Alright, here goes: I give this game 9/10. It is a complex, rich 
 adventure with a great storyline and a deep battle system. There is so much content that you could 
 play for years and there would still be more for you to do. It has its nuances and problems, to 
 be sure, but the overall experience of the game compensates for it. Go ahead, pick up a copy and 
 try it out. Keep an open mind and a friendly manner, and I guarantee you that good things will 
 come your way. Fun, friendship, and foes await you in Vana'diel, so hop on your chocobo and ride! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Azazel29
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 29, 2009 4:26 am PT
Review:  first of all dont bother reading a review of someone who spent 10 hours or less on the game. most 
 of there complaining would be about how long it took to get the game started.
  how bout we hear some pro's... first off. The graphics are fine despite what some pple say.. its 
 been out for 7 years for crying out loud. the graphics are only very bland on a ps2 and that wouldnt 
 hurt the experience.
  The world is massive... like the most massive mmorpg u could imagine. with like 50 territories that 
 would take you 10 minutes to run from one side to another (also a flaw lol, but it makes aquiring 
 faster modes of transportation that much more rewarding.)
  Theres a ton of jobs to choose from. and after a little ways through the game u can mix and match 
 any two of them at once. (like 15+ jobs)
  A ton of quests and missions to keep you with things to do.
  sure the game is slow paced, but 
 it gets you to interact and make online friends with other people. also you will want these friends 
 for much needed help throughout the game. if you dont have them u can also find people working 
 on the same quest or mission as you and join up.
  Battles can be quite strategic and require each player to pay attention and do well for the benefit 
 of the group.
  theres tons of weapons and equipment to keep things interesting. also you can join several quilds 
 and craft things yourself for profit or use.
  
  How bout the cons?
  character developement not so massive.. doesnt hinder so much cause even if u find someone lookin 
 like you chances are your gonna be wearing diff armor or or helmet, plus your rarely in a party 
 with someone who looks like you... there are actually like 5 diff races... and 10 diff faces of 
 male and 10 of female... excluding two races (one is all female, other all male) and different 
 hair colors for each face.
  next con- game not friendly to noobs. this is the biggest problem, but if you ask for help you'll 
 get it soon enough... and you WILL need to ask for help. dont try to be a lone rider in a game 
 divided into linkshells (clans) join a clan... life is easier that way. not just from some high 
 level giving you money to make equipement and items up to date, but for leveling buddies and questing 
 help.
  lastly.... This game takes a lot of time.. a lot... its never ending after all and theres a TON 
 of endgame stuff to do when your characters already max level. this is when i finally decided to 
 stop playing... I had plenty of fun after i reached lvl 75, but eventually i said i had to move 
 on because i didnt have the time for this game anymore.
  But It Was An Amazing Experience! I Do Miss It! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tubro_tales
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 28, 2008 9:04 am PT
Review:  firstly many mistake this to be like the other final fantasy games and moan about that, this is 
 a MMO so it's not going to play like a rpg.
  As a console gamer FFXI can be slightly overwhelming at first but the many guides and Q&As section 
 on the FFXI really new players. you start my selecting one of the five races then gender, face and 
 most import your job which are familiar for any FF fan.
  the starting jobs are red, black, white (a must) , monk, warrior and thief. Other jobs are unlock 
 when complete special quests which can only started after you reached lvl 30. You can also set a 
 job as a sub-job but you have to wait until your lvl 18 and complete a certain quest.
  After you select a job your have to pick a world (server) and a nation, the servers are named after 
 various FF summons and monsters (Odin, titan, shiva etc) the nations are which of the three cities 
 you going to start in. the nations are San d'oria, Bastok, Windurst each have their own stories and 
 missions (Different from quest as you can only do one mission at a time)
  When you start you see the world of FFXI (vana'diel) is big and but you only be able to so far as 
 the monsters don't pop as random battles (thank god) and can be avoid but who wants to that.
  the fighting is done by itself and all you do is first target a monster you want to battle and 
 select attack
  after that your character will attack the monster by themselves but your can select abilities, magic, skills 
 ranged attacks and pet commands which varies on what jobs you have, lvl, what weapons you have your 
 skill lvl with that. The exp depends on if monster is weak, easy decent, even, tough, really tough and 
 OMFG tough, if your in a party or using a item that gives you bonus exp.
  if you a battle you lose exp which is about 20% of the total exp needed to lvl up for whatever 
 lvl your on. this means you can actually lvl down which is annoying
  Partying up is really the way to play FFXI. playing solo takes ages and is boring compared to the 
 fun of being in a party. you can tackle harder monsters, beat quests that you could not do by yourself 
 and even have fun just chatting. new features such as lvl sych makes party exp make better as everyone's 
 lvl is forced to a lower one (this is good as before the if a party had low lvl and high lvl party 
 members exp isn't great)
  Battling takes up most of your time in FFXI but your do other thing like crafts (fishing, cooking 
 etc) and raise chocobos to get around faster and compete in racing.
  there also auctions houses which you buy and sell unused stuff to around players as items, armor, weapons 
 in FFXI are very expensive (no joke) and you can get betters prices sometimes from other players. there 
 are Other activities to do in FFXI but i won't spoil that for any one reading this, if you want 
 to know play the game.
  Finally the graphics are good and there rarely are any glitches and only ever seen slow down once 
 as there about 4 full parties fighting close to each other. the sounds is good and the music isn't 
 as epic as FFVII or FFX but still has that quality you see fom Square enix.
  Overall FFXI is a game you'll play for the long haul 
  (no joke again (my game time is well over 
 a week and my NO where near the end if there is one)
  If cost about 9 per which isn't much and you get a 30 free trial so that very good.
  The achievements 
 suck as they are all take quite some time to get expect for one (but it's only 5gp)
  A Fantastic final fantasy and MMO 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: huskerman34
Rating: 9
Date: May 29, 2008 11:16 am PT
Review:  Ive played some good mmorpg. I fell in love with ffxi when i played the beta on the 360. Ive been 
 playing on and off and started getting back into the game. Heres the bad part of ffxi is the servers 
 are really crappy you get the red dot of dissapperance least once or twice. When playing besieged, 
 you 360 freezes up occasionally. I think theres 1000 ffxi experts to one player ratio. Linkshells 
 should be called drama shells. you can waste countless hours just running around. And finally the 
 music in san a doria! Man i home point in alzahib. The good : Good graphics and storyline some 
 cool missions and quest. Some jobs are easy to unlock at level 30 , Being invited to a Japanese 
 pt. (man can they play the game) . IF you looking for a challenge, then i would suggest playing 
 this game. It well worth the challenge and its well worth the money. Go Red Mage! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Digibynx
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 8, 2008 8:31 am PT
Review:  I'm not going to compare the 360 version to the PC version or any other MMO on the PC. People need 
 to understand that MMOs were designed for the PC. The 360 is still very new in the MMO genre.
 
  
  That being said, this is a great game. The control scheme is VERY different and definitely takes 
 some getting used to. Not every action has a default button on the controller obviously, but the 
 game allows you to set macros. Graphics aren't the best in the world, but for how many things can 
 be on screen at one time and not lag is pretty impressive. Also, you have to remember that Square 
 Enix made this game in 2005. 
  
  The mechanics of the game works well. Pretty much like any other typical MMO, run around, find 
 quests, gain XP, fight monsters, party up with friends, the basics. If you've played those really 
 old school text based RPGs or you've played any RPG that said "You hit Goblin A for 5 points of 
 damage." You will see this in the game. I love that aspect; it tells you everything that happens. 
 Some people find it very annoying, but you can put it away when nothing is happening. In battle 
 the text box can get pretty huge because of all the damage being dealt.
  
  Get this fact engrained in your head At first, you will die a lot. This game is by no means merciful 
 in its difficulty. 
  
  At the moment there are only two MMOs on the 360. Phantasy Star Universe and Final Fantasy XI and 
 I've played both in depth. Phantasy Star seems to be for the younger audience. It's more of a hack 
 and slash when FFIX is more technical and statistics based. 
  
  The fact of the matter is that if you dig deep enough, you will certainly find a game that is worth 
 your while. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BlOoDyDeAtH360
Rating: 1
Date: Jan 30, 2008 12:09 am PT
Review:  First off, DONT BUY THIS FOR THE XBOX 360 if you really want to play it, get it for the PS2 or 
 PC (preferably PC as thats what this game stood out on a couple years ago) the game is really slow 
 for my taste, and once when i logged out and came back in, my character actually went down 1 level! 
 WTF is what that? another thing that i hated was how the control's were inverted (up was down and 
 down was up, dont remember is right was left and left was right) and i absoutely HATE that, i cant 
 see how people can play where up is down and down is up. after getting to level 10 i uninstalled 
 the game and never touched it again, and what makes it even worse if i cant trade it in! im stuck 
 with this POS game because they say the code can only be used once, when i actually used it twice 
 (dont remember why i reinstalled the game) and now im stuck with it : ( what ever you do DO NOT 
 BUY THIS FOR THE XBOX 360!!!! you have been warned. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: peacee
Rating: 6
Date: Jan 21, 2008 3:08 pm PT
Review:  Final Fantasy 11 is such a beautiful game. In fact Id say it's the most beautiful there is. I do 
 ask my self sometimes why I am not playing it after seeing such wonderful footage of the game. 
 Never have I seen such a majestic game with such great graphics and music. Then I remember why 
 I am not playing it. Il just explain the cons and prows.
  Prows-Graphics, Music, Sound. That is what makes this game shin. Cons-You cant pick any race and 
 job at the beginning of the game. They make you work your tail off to try them all. No audible 
 voices. With today's technology Im sure they could do audible voices. After level 20 you will never 
 be able to beat an enemy that is just one level below you. This forces you to find a party to help 
 you beat an enemy that is just one level below you. That's just silly. The interface is not vary 
 user friendly. You loose exp when you die. You loose non in wow. Questing is strenuous. Convincing 
 people to help you on your quest can take days sometimes. I had a friend that took like a week 
 you find a good party. If only you could solo in such situations there would not be this problem. 
 The final word. Final Fantasy 11 has great music, sound and graphics. But that alone is not fun. 
 What makes a game fun is freedom to travel the world and do what you pleas with out all the massive 
 constraints. Half of your time in this game (from my experience and others I know) will be spent 
 (waiting for people to join your group) , all because you cant solo after level 20. You could be 
 sitting there at your computer waiting for an hour just to get a party together to fight an enemy 
 that is one level below your level. So after level 20 the game becomes 1. Wait a long time for 
 a group. 2. Fight enemy's. It's the whole waiting forever thing that maid me stop playing this 
 game. What makes a game fun is the feeling of accomplishment. The feeling is gon by level 20. So 
 I don't recommend this game if you don't like waiting around for an hour for a party. Not all parties 
 take that long but if you play the game a lot you should see what I mean. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HatakeKakashi08
Rating: 1
Date: Jan 14, 2008 12:50 pm PT
Review:  I was incredibly dissapointed with this game. It took me nearly 6 hours just to create an account 
 and download everything, on top of that the cost of $16 dollars a month for a character and $1 
 for each additional one is a little pricey considering I already paid for the game and XBOX LIVE. 
 The controls were wonky, the character creation system so limited, and the graphics weren't any 
 better (in fact I'd say they were worse) than the phenomenal Final Fantasy X and X2. To make matters 
 worse, because of the registration code, I can't even return the game or re-sell it because once 
 the code has been entered it's yours. If you're looking for a good first person RPG with a good 
 story, vibrant characters, beautiful graphics and a Final Fantasy X, X2 feel I would suggest Eternal 
 Sonata. It's everything Final Fantasy 11 SHOULD have been but failed miserably at. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RPGeezer
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 13, 2008 3:03 pm PT
Review:  I bought a 360 for entertainment, the main reason was Oblivion, awesome open ended RPG, I'm an 
 RPG man at heart but FFXI isnt a traditional RPG, no, its a time absorbing MMORPG.
  
  Ok, lets start from the beggining, you choose a race, face and place to reside if you will, thrown 
 literally into the deep end you start with next to no money and gear that fetches literally nothing, 
 you assume the role of your charecter, I started this game and just thought to myself, oh my god, 
 its the lamest game I have ever played and just stuck it back in its box again for a couple of 
 months.
  
  Couple of months pass, now Ive decided to grind my way through this game, everything I do just 
 seems to take 10 times longer than any other RPG I've ever played, people are unwilling to guide 
 noobs through for the mostpart and my pleas at the feet of random adventurers were often brushed 
 aside, but eventually I found a few people that helped me get new gear and give me an idea of what 
 to do, its not actually very clear 'what to do' which might sound bizarre but after a while it 
 all seems to make sense and for people to help it would take a long old time and its better to 
 grind it out cos you assume your own playing style instead of adopting someone elses.
  
  I started with a RDM, Hume Male, From windurst, I just fought bees for a long while, after a while 
 I managed to walk to San'doria lol and a guy bought me some nice armor, now I was prepared for 
 battle, or was I? I didnt know my ass from my elbow and I was ill prepared for quite the hugeness 
 of this game, its hard to put into words, but what I will say is that its a very good game if you 
 have the time, very fun, very addictive, very rewarding, very charming, innivotive.
  
  I love this game so much, I am by no means a pro at this game, it takes alot of time but I have 
 a few high level jobs and they feel like genuine assetts in your life, almost achievements.
  
  The 360 version is great, Gamespots review is misguided cos what did they expect for the 360 
 version, all it could do was deliver better graphics, they canty add many other quirks cos it would 
 be unfair to the ps2 and pc players, just a dumb statement really, also, great games, such as final 
 fantasy games dont really get outdated, awesome game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: artiedeadat40
Rating: 1.5
Date: Dec 30, 2007 7:44 pm PT
Review:  Wow! This game is terrible. For starters it took me 3-4 hours (between installing playonline and 
 and the game itself and registration for the service just to be able to play the game I had just 
 bought for $50) before I was able to even move my character. This game also uses up most of your 
 hard drive. This is an mmo game and character creation is very limited. All the characters look 
 the same. You will also spend an obscene amount of time trying to complete some obscure objective. 
 The map is terrible and you will be lost most of the time. I gave up on this crappy game and sold 
 it on e bay only to have more problems because once you register the game it is useless to anyone 
 but yourself. I really feel taken advantage of this is just a terrible game. This was just a waste 
 of time and money. Avoid this crappy game at all cost. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kingmoonraiser
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 11, 2007 3:22 pm PT
Review:  Great mmo. Fun and fairly intuitive. Lots of skilltree avenues for those players looking for depth. 
 Hard to play without a keyboard and the 360 chatpad is craptacular. Clumsy market system, makes 
 it hard to buy/sell from other players. Community interface makes it difficult to embrace your 
 online friends. The people you meet are friendly and helpful, but multi-lingual servers can be 
 frustrating when half the people you try to chat with do not speak/type your language. The early 
 levels are very boring and difficult while learning the ropes. Play to at least level 15. That 
 is when the team play really picks up. Also, ask around and join a linkshell. It is like a clan. 
 The game looks nice on the 360, but they really should have tried to incorporate voice more. Voice 
 chat is possible, but no one uses it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dmweekes
Rating: 2.5
Date: Nov 10, 2007 4:36 am PT
Review:  I'll admit I don't actually own this game because it makes me feel better about reviewing and keeps 
 my good reputation intact. But after hours of sitting at a friends house playing/watching him play 
 I think I have a fair idea of what the game is about. Yes it's one of those tedious online rpg 
 games that is the gaming world equivalent of attending swap meets or yard sales, or wondering around 
 your local field with a metal detector. It really is that dull, nothing ever happens and you end 
 up putting alot of time and energy into obtaining worthless items to put up for auction. Whoop 
 de frickin do, so it is basically ebay without the real world cash pay off. Call me cynical but 
 I have just never understood why people like these grindtastical longwinded boring adventures but 
 then most people don't understand why I like to spend my saturdays dressed as a pigeon defocating 
 on statues. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pharoe777
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 13, 2007 3:24 pm PT
Review:  awesome game, takin' a break until the new expansion is out... can't wait !!!!!!!!! Does take somtime 
 but with the good friends I've made over game play, can get anything done. They make the game more 
 fun and exciting. If you're a fan of FF you'll enjoy this one and make some good friends, plus 
 squar enix merged 3 systems so the servers are massive.
  You got 360, ps2 and pc, I'm playin' on pc but thinkin' of takin' over on 360 so I can sit back 
 and relax. I choose this game over WoW, I got bored on WoW and left it and never looked back. The 
 story on FF 11 is just wonderful, really draws you in. So if you're lookin' for an awesome mmorpg, 
 choose FF 11. peace 
::::::

::::::
UserName: abdullahmurano
Rating: 5
Date: Sep 11, 2007 9:04 am PT
Review:  I had 3 Jobs Leveled in this game WAR75 MNK75 NIN75
  I got everything all Access all passes all good armor all craft skills
  i quite playing this 
 game because it consumes your life forever
  it just throw you away from all other Video Games anyways the game looks good in Graphics but not 
 for 360 its not even a next gen the gamplay is sux (why?) depends on other players which makes 
 you wait for hours to get a group and sometimes this group screw you also if want an item or some 
 piece of armor and u dont have friends , i suggest you dont even think about it anymore &gt;&lt; 
 people just wont help you if they dont want the same thing you want
  and if u really want some good armor piece like Ochechedo Kote you well have to wait for 9 hours 
 of camping notorious Monster to kill it and drop it and to say to truth about this piece i camped 
 it for 7 days and killed the NM 15 times w/o any armor drop ! while some Real Money trader selling 
 it for 30$ well this game WAS cool
  now its just a crap there is no reason to play it again 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Finalrobo101
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 3, 2007 11:47 am PT
Review:  The game has almost no lag first of all. This makes the game very, very good no matter what happens. 
 With a price of 12.99 per month for one character it is a good deal. You only need one character. 
 You can level all your jobs up to the highest level (lvl 75) , on one character. There is almost 
 no need to create another character unless you desperately want a change of pace. The game fully 
 uses the 360 graphics potential. The only thing that may need a bit of work is the environment. 
 The trees are all flat and need alot of work but that may be fixed in an upcoming patch. This game 
 is great overall with a multitude of classes, skills, places, spells and people. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BoonDockSaint15
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 23, 2007 1:29 pm PT
Review:  Yes I know it is not like the same as it is on the pc , but none the less on the tv it is just 
 as great as it is on a computer screen maybe even a little better . I put most of my time into 
 this game and it is mind blowing just what you can do in it and what you can become .Now that the 
 people that make the final Fantasy games are putting come of the game on 360 i play final fantasy 
 alot more .To tell the truth you can't sit at your computer your hole life sometimes you want to 
 play your 360 and this is what i play on it the grahpics are just as good maybe a little better 
 if you have the right tv but none the less give it the credit that the game really should have 
 give it a 10 people .IT WILL BLOW YOR MIND IF YOU JUST TRY IT !!! IT ROCKS MY SOCKS!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: derekmooney
Rating: 7.9
Date: Aug 7, 2007 10:44 pm PT
Review:  Very immersive, you will find yourself wrapped in this game and spending more time playing it than 
 you realize. The only real downside i find to this game is the fact it is an MMO and one that has 
 been around a while and it depends greatly on being able to party with other PC's. Not hard to 
 find people willing to help with leveling your character but it can make the quests difficult because 
 most PC's have completed them already as most people are playing more end game stuff. With that 
 being said this game is so deep that you can log on for a couple hours and only battle npc's very 
 limitedly because there is so much else to do. If you love FF games then i would definately suggest 
 it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mitch4892
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jul 31, 2007 5:01 pm PT
Review:  I have been playing this game for around a month now, and I have nothing but good things to say 
 about it! The amount of people you come across is amazing. People from everywhere and anywhere 
 play this game. I meet mostly Americans but I see all sorts of other people. It's great to hear 
 about the way of life. Most other people speak okish English so it's easy to understand. And even 
 if they don't you have the auto translator!
  
  I have to admit the game throws you into the action almost instantly and it can be confusing to 
 understand. But stick with it give it about a hour or two and you'll meet someone who is willing 
 to help. In fact most high lvl players wait around the three main starting towns just to help newer 
 additions. So your bound to find help. As for things you'll be doing..... Well I don't know where 
 to start there's so much to do in the world of Vana'diel there are various crafts such as fishing 
 (to make a bit of money) Cloth craft (to make armor) Goldsmith, cooking and the list goes on. And 
 to top it all off you have thousands of quests to adventure into including something called missions. 
 Missions are the main meat of the game (with the storyline there are 3 different ones) and quests 
 are like things to do when you need money or armor.
  
  The amount of monsters to kill is increible. Put it this way if you want to go round smashing gobs 
 round the head with a massive axe then you'll like this game. In fact there's something for everyone 
 if your a caring type of guy then be a white mage, a dark scary force maybe black mage? Or perhaps 
 your a all mighty Dragoon with our trusty dragons to help us? (OK I'm a dragoon so I'm biased on 
 this one :p) I have been playing for over 13 days worth of play time (that's 314 hours) . And I 
 have loved every second of it. There are achievements for this game but they are pretty hard to 
 achieve but they are there. Well I'm ending the lecture on how great this game is! Bye for now! 
 Hope to see you in Vana'diel!
  
  P. S. Join now and you get to join in the summer breeze festival. It's the time of summer after 
 all! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mikekoszla
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jul 31, 2007 4:45 pm PT
Review:  This game will have you stuck to you 360 for hours as you venture through the magical world Vana'diel 
 killing hundreds of different types of monsters and beast-men and making many freinds along the 
 way. The game is completely free-roam so you are free to level when you want as well as a great 
 story line to keep you gripped as you hit the higher levels there are always updates to the storys 
 and places so you'll never get bored. Every expansion for the game inclueds new jobs, places and 
 storyline. Plus the real-time sync means the world is always in motion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mjmarco
Rating: 5.3
Date: Jul 30, 2007 10:19 am PT
Review:  This past weekend I decided to give Final Fantasy XI a chance. I have read really bad reviews but 
 I said to myself you have always liked the FF games, how bad can this one really be? and man 
 let me tell u it was stronger than me. The first 20 minutes I was wondering, why should I need 
 to install a software to play online we there is xbox live? Or how was the brilliant mind that 
 selected the music that is suitable for 1900 elevator?
  
  Why do I have to wait 30 minutes to start playing a game after inserting the DVD in my Xbox, when 
 that is one of many reason that keep me from playing games in my PC. Yes I want instant gratification, 
 what is wrong about it
  
  It was stronger than me I decided to return it, and keep the good memories of previous installments. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ninjafeesh
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jun 22, 2007 7:28 am PT
Review:  I really don't know where to start. There is so much you can do in this game it would take me hours 
 and hours to explain, so I'll just go through the basics.
  
  GRAPHICS: The graphics are great, the look of the spells are nice and the character and monster 
 design is awesome, The graphics are not absoloutley stunning, just great. The swords and armour 
 all look different apart from about 3 of the tunics, but apart from that, each one has it's own 
 design and style. The physics are good, like the way they can swing and use weapons and ride Chocobo's.
 
  
  GAMEPLAY: This is the best part. I have never, not once got bored of playing this, never. There 
 is different and many worlds to choose from each with different places and surroundings, it won't 
 take hours to travel across just one world, it will literally take months of gameplay, more than 
 400 hours of gameplay to discover the world. The character creation is fantastic, with 5 different 
 races to choose from, only problemis that you can't fully customize your characters face, you have 
 to choose from about 10 choices with it, the face has lots of choices too. This takes a while to 
 learn aswell, if you want to learn and know about absoloutley everything about the game, again, 
 like 400 hours of gameplay so I gave 4 hours or more for learning curve, but you learn as you go 
 along. The main part of this game (you will understand if you have played an FF game before) is 
 leveling up. e. g, getting stronger learning new spells, and faster ect. You an team up with friends 
 or people from around the world and level up together, which makes it easier and in my opinion, 
 more fun. But say there is a Japanese or French person, there is a special thing called auto translate 
 which takes some getting used to but once you know how to use it, you can speak to anyone. I can't 
 explain half the things you can do, you just have to experience it for yourself.
  
  SOUND: I love the sound, there is different music depending on the situation, for example, you 
 level up and there will be a shrort bit of celebration music, or if you are in a fight, the music 
 is fast paced, if you are in a big city, there is strong grand and proud music.
  
  OVERALL: I don't even like Final Fantasy games that much, but this one s different. You don't have 
 to be a fan of FF to enjoy this, because I wasn't but I am now. If you get this game, I guarantee 
 you will not regret it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: trevorlohr
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 21, 2007 2:43 am PT
Review:  All I have to say is that it is pure awesome (excluding graphics) . All you hear about is that the 
 graphics are crap, but if you take a closer look, you can tell they are no worse than that of Anarchy 
 Online, Entropia Universe, or SWG. It's just a wee bit out-dated, that's all. The gameplay is great, 
 though it might be a grindfest after a while. It has all the fun of a MMORPG with the buying of 
 equipment, fighting and little tasks to get away from the grind. And you can actually look good 
 while you play, unlike some games*cough WoW cough*. Come on, you look ten times bigger in your 
 armor in WoW, how fake is that. I'm sorry, I'm not looking to get off-topic or flamed for this, 
 but since I started playing WoW I installed, played for 10 minutes, if that, and uninstalled. Done. 
 Music, anything you'd expect from a FF game, in other words, pure awesome. I strongly recommend 
 this for someone who wants to play a game with deep value, great sound, and a not so PvP biased 
 view on MMO's. If you get on this PM me with your gamertag or add me SMC Deaths Eyes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Hurricane89
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 17, 2007 6:20 pm PT
Review:  Alright, Well to start this off, I've been a Final Fantasy Fan for years! Ever since Final Fantasy 
 V, I've loved every game Especially VII VIII And X. This game all in all isnt SO bad that no one 
 wants to play it.... But This isn't why your here to hear me Ramble is it? Didn't Think so Lawl.
 
  
  Any way heres how I'm going to do this, I'm going to start out talkin about the game then go into 
 Details about Sound Graphics Music, Video, And Diffculty. Alright here goes nothing!
  
  So here we are... Final Fantasy XI, The supposed BIG Game of 2006, Correct? Wrong, There are better 
 games out there then this, The final fantasy Series started out on the NES (Nintendo Entertainment 
 System) in Japan with Final Fantasy. Then moved on to more like II III IV V VI VII VIII IX X X-2 
 XII. The most famous Final Fantasy Game Was quite possibly VII Because it had the most famous villain 
 ever, Sephiroth, However after X-2, Square Enix Decided that it was time for something new instead 
 of the other same old story lines, They decided it was time to expand their world into the World 
 of Online Roleplaying... Better known as MMORPG (Massive Multiplayer Online Role Playing Game) .
 
  
  Alright so we decided how it orriginated now to talk about whats good about it. Sounds graphics 
 Difficulty and Learning Curve is how we will decide this, I know I said what I'd describe up above 
 I think I changed my mind so blehhhhhhhhhh! Lawl.
  
  Sound: The sounds and music of this game is pretty damn good, I must say honestly that it is better 
 then most music except the battle music... I'd think Final Fantasy VIII Had better music then XI, 
 But the sounds of the swords hitting the monsters and so forth are oh so ORGASMIC. But eh yall 
 might not agree to this but hey I don't see you writeing reviews `-`. What hurts this game is that 
 its not Mic Compatable like Phantasy Star Universe.
  
  Graphics: The graphics, Eh are so so, better then Fable better then Final Fantasy I - X-2. XII 
 has better graphics then this one, But eh its fine with me. The graphics of the monsters moveing 
 hitting and running is awsome, They have blinking eyes moveing heads and other things such as talking 
 and stuff, NOt mic Compatable. Anyway, Its pretty Intense....
  
  Difficulty: For those who arn't used to the battle system, It would be pretty.. well.. Hard to learn, 
 but those who played XII before XI like me, then it would be kinda easy. But the battle System 
 isnt the hard part of it, Its the difficulty of the monsters, The monsters are damn hard LAWL, 
 And stuff like that. Stuff gets harder as you stray from the city, Lawl. Good luck.
  
  Learning Curve: Well, It's pretty damn hard to learn this game, the commands and Macro's, and on 
 the Xbox you have to use the controler to type, You can use a USB cabled Keyboard, but that makes 
 it harder to play, useing keys like S W A Z to move I cant do that cause I'm not exactly Compatable 
 to do that, Since I don't play the games for the PC Lawl, Anyway it was good I learned it pretty 
 easily cause like I said, I've played the Final Fantasy Series before, and Played XII Before XI 
 so I learned what is what pretty fast. All in all this game was pretty fast paced and gamers everywhere 
 will love this game like I have, It needs better sword motions and slashing and so forth, But its 
 pretty fun. Thats it. Good day Lawl!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: metriodhunter77
Rating: 9.9
Date: Apr 12, 2007 8:54 pm PT
Review:  It is disapointing that this so many people buy this game and quit just because they dont put enough 
 effort into what could be one of the largest and most beautiful games of all time.
  
  I am sick of the Biased opinions offered with out reason or effort of the reviewers part. I personally 
 give all the games I play a chance before writing reviews and posting scores. And all I can say 
 is dont play this game unless you are serious about rpgs or dont have enough time to devote to 
 this game.
  
  Once you get into the game you will find out how truly rewarding it is.
  
  Gameplay:
  The gameplay is extraodinary in ffxi. You can choose between five races, each 
 of which have thier own strengths and weeknesses. You will then choose your job which affects your 
 overall stats and abilities. The job system offers a ton of freedom and can be expanded to include 
 advanced jobs such as Dark Knight, or Ninja. Later on in the game you will gain the option to chose 
 a sub job as well which adds on to your jobs strengths. After level 13 or so you will start to 
 form parties to take on tough enemies and gain a ton more exp. Overall the gameplay is extremely 
 rewarding/addicting.
  
  Graphics/sound: Well seeing as gamespot insists that the graphics are outdated and not worthy of 
 the 360 I will have to warn you that this game is 4 or so years old. But for a game that old the 
 graphics are amazing! The music is awesome just like the many final fantasy tracks before it. Value: 
 The one major con in this game, at least for me is the $12.95 fee every month. If you dont want 
 to pay it dont buy this game (its that simple) .
  
  Finally I belive this game would be worthy of a 10.0 if there was no monthly fee. But end the end 
 its just pocket cash anyways so I dont really care. I highly suggest this game to rpg lovers and 
 people who have a lot of spare time. If not please do waste our time writing stupid *** reviews.
 
  :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Utensilman
Rating: 8.2
Date: Apr 9, 2007 1:01 pm PT
Review:  Takes alot of getting used to. But once you get into the game, it's gonna be tough to stop. Alot 
 of hours spent grinding award you with great end game content. However this game isn't for all. 
 Alot of WoW players will find this slow and perhaps boring. To the paitent and the commited this 
 game will be one of your favoritve MMOs to date. Worth playing for sure.
  
  blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah 
 blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah 
 blah blah
  
  If you own a 360, give it a try. it's only 20 bucks these days. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Killiasxxx
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 17, 2008 8:04 pm PT
Review:  Ok this game is funner than people say it is. But it will be a long game very long to level up 
 espeacialy if you dont know what your doing so this game is all about Team work parties without 
 a party you wont level up past about LVL 20. But whats so fun about this game is theres Jobs then 
 there higher jobs like being a Samurai, Ninja, Dragoon-you have a dragon. and some more you can also 
 raise your own Chocobo and name it. Alot of people play World Of Warcraft because its easier to 
 learn.
  Final Fantasy looks confusing at first but youll get use to it fast. And also World of Warcraft 
 is easy you dont need parties. It doesnt have a penilty for Dieing now Final Fantasy Does you lose 
 Exp or your lvl if your not careful that might sound like its really sucks but it keeps you interested 
 in the game and make you get along with people making friends and thats the fun thing parties. The 
 are achievements on the 360 they are just that you have to reach lvl 75 in the classes. Gamespot 
 said tough to swallow monthly fees its 10$$$$ and World Of Warcraft is 15$$$$$ what the ****? So 
 all around I say atleast try it with the Free Month or however many days. If anyone needs help 
 on the Asura Server send me a message 
::::::

::::::
UserName: magrappy
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 21, 2007 6:12 am PT
Review:  Where to begin with this master piece of modern gaming. The beginning is slow but a great learning 
 curve and there is so many jobs, skills, items, crafts and areas and enemies to dive straight into 
 you'll be happy for a slow start. You can happily spend the first 10 hours on your own exploring 
 and leveling up to level 10-11 before joining others and venturing further. In a group of 6 people 
 you can go into all new, tougher areas and experience new enemies and how people work together. 
 You will have a lot of trouble to start with but learn it all now because you have a lot more to 
 go and you'll one day be in groups of 18-60 people and you'll have a jod job to do.
  You can level up in a group from here to 75 going to an amazing new area with new enemies every 
 3-4 levels. The thing i love about this game is every area really does look and feel like a new 
 zone. Enemies, level designs and weather conditions change dramatically throughout the game all 
 ways giving you some fresh area's to explore.
  Level 20-70 is filled with leveling up, equipping your self, getting the right spells and abilities, 
 and theres tones of missions and quests to do which result in ranks, money and passes to get to 
 new area's. Money is a tricky issue in the game because people buy and sell gil (the currency) 
 online through websites which takes away making yourself. I would never buy gil and would erge 
 you not to as well, not only does it take away from the game but its cheating. Earning money is 
 great fun, killing enemies, crafting and hunting notorious monsters in small or large groups.
 
  Most of the items you wont will take a lot of hard work but with a great community there is lots 
 of rewards.
  To sum up this game it takes a fair bit of time to get everything out of this game but theres so 
 much to get from it. Its one of the biggest games ive ever played and has more enemies, items, 
 weapons, armor, jobs, abilities, you could ever want. Level design is the best ive ever seen in 
 a game, news areas really look like brand new areas and this makes exploreing great. Ive put thousands 
 of hours in to this game, ive recently taken a break from it but theres still tones of jobs and 
 items i would like to experiance. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: philhilluk
Rating: 9.8
Date: Feb 20, 2007 1:34 pm PT
Review:  This game takes quite a bit of getting into. The installation does take a long time, which if you 
 are only used to console gaming is going to come as a bit of a shock.
  
  However, once you do get into the game and begin to learn your way around you soon discover this 
 is bigger than anything you will ever have played before, unless you had already played Everquest 
 or Ultima Online on PC.
  
  You are free to be anything you want to be in the game, all classes are available (eventually) 
 to be played by your one character. Level a warror to level 10, fancy a change? - Change to White 
 mage and start to level that to level 6, want to try something different? - Change to thief and 
 start to level that job.
  
  That alone was something I had wished were available on all the other mmorpg's out there - I dont 
 want to keep creating new characters just to try new jobs..... brilliant idea by the guys at Square 
 Enix.
  
  Add to all that a ton of craft skills you can work on, your own house to store your things in and 
 to decorate, the ability to grow plants or to raise your own chocobo (giant chicken thing which 
 you can ride) and the multitude of things you are able to do.... well I think you should just try 
 this game for yourself and see.
  
  Fabulous game where PC, PS2 and 360 owners can meet up and play together on the same server, give 
 it a try and watch the years just fly by! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sonofares
Rating: 6
Date: Feb 3, 2007 11:35 am PT
Review:  No it's not the greatest thing that's ever happened to online gaming. But it is a decent experience. 
 I had never been involved with a MMORPG when I signed up and started playing this. First of all, 
 you have to buy the game. Then you have to sign up with an extra service and pay an extra fee to 
 become part of the FF world and get a profile. Then you have to download about an hours worth of 
 stuff (no exaggeration) . Then you'll notice quite a bit of your 360's hard drive space has disappeared. 
 Keep in mind this Final Fantasy online experience has been going on for years on other systems 
 such as the Playstation 2 and the PC and you get to interact with individuals who are playing on 
 those systems so that's pretty cool. What I would say mostly is be aware of what you're getting 
 into when you get this game. Also you're probably gonna want to hook up a usb keyboard to your 
 360. There's alot of help to guide you along on the internet and it's pretty easy to get help to 
 figure out what to do and you will need to do that. You can fight and explore the Final Fantasy 
 world solo but as your character advances in his missions and abilities one day you will want to 
 team up with others ina party and start doing things together. You will meet people who have been 
 living in this world for years (and they're probably the people you've heard about whose wives 
 have left them and they lost their jobs due to their gaming addiction) . I will say because the 
 game has been around so long is that the action and gameplay is dated. Don't expect an Oblivion 
 experience here. There's alot of scrolling text to read. There's alot alot alot of walking long 
 distances to be done. (Though I think they've helped that by allowing even newbies to buy or raise 
 certain animals that can be rode) . I had some fun with it. I will say, you have to understand this 
 game will take alot of devotion and an enormous amount of time to really get into it. I've NEVER 
 EVER HEARD OF ANYONE COMPLETING THE GAME. I don't even think there is an ending. It's an alternative 
 life. You will become a new person in a seperate reality. Basically you're living another life 
 and it takes about as much dedication. Most people are gonna want to avoid this game unless you're 
 a die hard Final Fantasy and RPG fan. Of course what the game does, it does well. What it was made 
 to do it does do well...... it's just that it's pretty old now. In my opinion I would wait for the 
 next big good MMORPG to come out. Frankly, I'd like to see Oblivion Online!!! Imagine that! I was 
 pretty blown away by the sheer enormity of this online universe because that's what it is..... a 
 universe. None of the graphics or gameplay was real impressive to me...... like I said...... I'm 
 waiting for the next great NEXT-GENERATION MMORPG to come out! This game is not next-gen by any 
 stretch of the imagination. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xx51LLYR4BB1TxX
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jan 18, 2007 8:57 pm PT
Review:  This is one of the best games i have ever played online theres so much to do the world is just 
 so huge that it will take you a year or more to explore the enviorments are just amazing ( The 
 Sanctaury Of Zi'tah is my favorite place in the whole world of vana'diel it also has my favoite 
 sound track sound of the game) . Now w let me warn you once you start playing this game theres no 
 going back you will get so highing addtieced to this game so if you have a very demanding job or 
 alot of shcrool work dont play this game keep away. The game has alot of nice and great players 
 who will help you out if they can so its a great way to meet people in the game. The bad thing about 
 the game though if you dont have paticne is the leveling and the waitng to get into a party it 
 can take 2-4 hours sometimes to get in a party and the leveing is very slow once you reach lv 10 
 it starts to take very long to lv up and you cant solo once you reach lv 10 you have to party up 
 with other players. Partying is very fun but there are times when you get into a party that just 
 makes you want to quit playing the game for the day. Another thing i forgot to message you cant 
 play this game for just a n h9our or 2 a day you have to play a good 5-8 hours a day to do anything 
 its a very long paced game. Basicially what im saying is if you dont have enough time to play the 
 game dont brother you wont get any where other than that its a great game in the world of Final 
 Fantasy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Viryn_Sane
Rating: 7.2
Date: Jan 18, 2007 1:56 pm PT
Review:  When I first played Final Fantasy XI, I thought I was in MMORPG heaven. Gone were the days of creating 
 new characters to experience new classes. But over time... new games began to come out... all with 
 better graphics and newer gameplay. In time this heaven I spoke of eventually dwindled to a star 
 fading away in the rear view mirror of my new car, consequently called... World of Warcraft. While 
 the game was fun on the PC, moving it to the XBOX is a disaster. The XBOX is made for high def 
 graphics... not old school graphics that FFXI presents. The gameplay does not change, graphics do 
 not change, nothing has changed... which begs the questions... why? Why put out an old game on a 
 new platform without changing anything?
  
  The answer is simple... playstation 2. Square Enix wants everyone to enjoy this game... including 
 those unfortunate souls still playing on the playstation 2.
  
  If you havent tried it and really want to play it, go for it. Buy it on this system but expect 
 low or you will be dissapointed. If you have played, skip this title, go out and get Gears of War 
 to truley experience the 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TracuerKezer
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jan 14, 2007 9:54 am PT
Review:  Final Fantasy 11.
  
  This is a brilliant game the graphics are not as good other 360 games. The excitment of leveling 
 up and being able to buy new armour and weapons. The music to it is brillaint music for every area. 
 There is a lot of travelling as you progress in levels, your too strong to fight in one area so 
 you have to go into another area which can be about 10 mintues or more away (real time) . I mean 
 to get from one end of the map to the other could take about 2 hours. But you can get chocobos 
 once you reach level 20 and once you complete a high level mission you get an airship pass which 
 helps alot. The learning curve to it is endless. My father had been playing for about a year and 
 he is still learning. From S. A. T. A to using viper bite with that, but that is what makes the game 
 so good. There are never ending things to do so you can be occupied for hours. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bakerstar
Rating: 6.8
Date: Jan 12, 2007 3:31 am PT
Review:  After spending a vast majority of my time on the PC version of Final Fantasy XI it was only karma 
 that after receiving an X Box 360 I would attempt it on the console.
  
  Unfortunately their wasn't too much hype in the console version. With dated graphics, hard to adjust 
 controls and an in general slow down to the performance the 360 can achieve ; It was vastly a dissapointed 
 with the console crossover.
  
  And with the X Box being a console renowned for it's First Person Shooter's, and fast paced action, 
 it doesn't really appeal to consumers interested in the console itself.
  
  That said, if your a die hard Final Fantasy fan like many people are, then this is most deffinately 
 worth the money spent. You'll pick up the controls and the console crossover would become a blessing.
 
  
  deffinately not for the hardcore console gamers that the X Box is famous for. But for RPG fanatics, 
 a winner. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: barok1973
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 1, 2007 8:58 pm PT
Review:  wow ! fantasric !.... i hope they get more like final fantasy games on xbox360
  i find it very good that they release the final fantasy series in the xbox360......... its really 
 a nice game , nice story, its for me a hit... its fantastic ! .... now this is how you compare 
 same game on a different console...... i hope microsoft has many more final fantasy games rpg release 
 to xbox360 then here in asia xb0x360 sure will win the attetion of gamers ..... final fantasy type 
 rpgs here are a hit !.... so xbox360 also is a noise here all they are waiting for is more rpgs 
 like final fantasy!... you know what i mean 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mikets1uf
Rating: 3.9
Date: Dec 20, 2006 7:20 am PT
Review:  After playing World of Warcraft and other MMORPGs it was very hard to get into Final Fantasy XI 
 on the Xbox 360. The communication on Xbox 360 is slow and difficult (if you don't have any extra 
 accesories) . Its a fairly difficult game if you don't have a team with you right from the start. 
 Also, the fact that the graphics were not improved for the 360 and the fact that you have to pay 
 an annual fee for the game on top of your Xbox Live fees make it an unworthy buy. I give Final 
 Fantasy around a 4 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Beefscorn
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 11, 2006 7:28 pm PT
Review:  Turthfuly it's a graet game that gives bored peopel a great way to wast their time and be put in 
 semi realistic perspectives like weather to buy something expensive that takes a while to farm 
 (collecting items to sell on the ah~ auction house to other peopel for gil or money) or to buy 
 something almost as good that makes thing harder to beat. It turly is a emersive world that may 
 seem really dull with the first few classes but after you get the other jobs and level them up 
 it turely becomes a completly different game where you must work together inorder to beat a monster 
 and then redo but in a attempt to chain it and get more exp. But if you don't have time to put 
 in this game i sadly will have to agree (with teeth grining) to play something like WoW or PSU. 
 There are many servers so you dont have to worry about overpopulations, amongst there servers there 
 are many players that will give you a hard time or there are many friends that will give you many 
 good times or there are people that will help you or theres peopel you will party with once and 
 maby never see them again. As for story wise there are 3 nations you start in and depending on 
 where you start out theres different monster that await outside the kingdom walls. As you level 
 up there are differnet missions you will accomplish for the nation and get a higher rank which 
 will give you some things like a airship pass. There are also quests that you can do for different 
 peopel in the kingdom and outside which i where you will level up. The expansions (that all the 
 current ones are included in the 360 version) give better areas to level up and new monsters and 
 also, just like your kingdom, they will have their own missions and quests. But mostly their there 
 for higher lev players to continue from doing the same thing over in the other areas that came 
 in the original. Gameplay wise you dont actully attack by pressing a button it is activated and 
 continues from there till either you die or the monster does. A lot of your abilities (and weather 
 or not you will get a party fast) is depened upon your job. If your a white mage you might be bored 
 and stressed with having to only cure over and over and over and over and over again you will get 
 a party fast, but if your a job like samurai party are that plentiful because mostly people want 
 a thf whm blm pld and 2 dd's. At first when you don't have many skills you mostly will almost die 
 fighting strong stuff or take forever killing weak stuff. But after you get most skills like 50 
 + but you will have enough at 20 to have a lot more fun. At lev 18 you can get your chocobo and 
 at 15 a subjob which is reallyyyyyyyyyyyyy healpful. Once you get to 65+ you start endgame stuff 
 like killing gods which is a fun ordeal, For this you will need a ls or a linkshell. Its a group 
 of people that all conversate and only thoes who have a pearl can talk. This is where many great 
 memories will occure, it is turly a shinning asspect of the game. They mostly (if there good) are 
 helpful, funny, and do stuff together as well as helping people out. Also when there is seasonal 
 events you can all do them together and have some great fun doing it Overall once you get used 
 to the story and gameplay it is turly one of the most advanced and complex mmo's out there that 
 is a lot of fun. As for sound it has a great soundtrack that are additive and if you play enough 
 you will probaly start humming them youself. Graphicly wise on 360 it is great improvement from 
 ps2 but if you got a good computer not better than that. For how big it is the graphics are stunning. 
 The price tag for a month is not bad at all, its only like 12 bucks. Controls can be ajusted and 
 feel rather good. A keyboard is almost a must but they do have a lil on screan keyborad that takes 
 forever to type something. Overall it is a grate game that depending upon a person it can be a wast 
 of time to a great experience that will give you great memories to the grave 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joff5555
Rating: 9.7
Date: Nov 26, 2006 8:19 am PT
Review:  i am play this game for mounths and i still like it some of it is rubissh but its a great game 
 and its something to play when you got nothing else to do. of cause it takes a while to lvl up 
 but that is part of the game and that what makes it fun and explore the big world of final fantasy 
 11 but need to be the right lvl to explore more places. if you like final fantasy than you will 
 like this. i think this ist he beest online final fantasy and only online final fantasy. you can 
 play this for hours lots of bosses to fight. and enjoy the world of FINAL FANTASY11. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Legend-at-heart
Rating: 7.8
Date: Nov 9, 2006 5:01 am PT
Review:  I have been playing this game for several months now and this game grasped me from the start. Even 
 though an RPG is not usually my kind of game i still couldnt get off this highly addictive massively 
 online RPG. In my eyes this game is absolutley amazing for gameplay even though it is slow paced 
 and can be seen a dull and bland at times. This is due to the fact that this is very time consuming 
 for you to make progress. It is not a game that you can pick up for half an hour and expect to 
 get far through it in that time. Althoguh this is also a good thing as well as a bad thing. Because 
 you need to spend alot of time on it means you get hours and hours of enjoyment from the same game 
 every single day. Some problems that occur with this however are things such as you need to get 
 a group of people who know what they are doing together to make any real progress later on in the 
 game and if you do not have long periods of time to play you will find your progress extremely 
 slow and teh game tedious. There are hundreds and hundreds of different paths that you can choose 
 to take in your journey of Vana'diel and because it is not linear in any shape or form it is up 
 to you which way you appraoch it. You can decide if you wish to level your character up, change 
 its job, raise its skills, higher its crafts, make money and so much more. It is just like a real 
 world. From the second you start you are surrounded by fellow adventurers who are all mainly people 
 controlled apart from th NPC who can gve you missions and objectives to make your time in the world 
 fun. Because of the huge variety of things that you are able to do means that you will need to 
 ask the fellow adventurers around you for advice. Everyone in the servers are very kind and are 
 always willing to help. The game encourages you to intergrate with each other which is a great 
 way to bring people together because you can find out what is the best way to approach situations 
 from the people who have experenced it before. A great feature to help you achieve this would be 
 the way that you have a ? symbol by your name which enables players who have been their for a while 
 to see that you are new. The second that i arrived in the game i noticed that i was in a huge world 
 by looking at the map and it would take me a while to rise to the top. It gives you a nice little 
 nudge in the right direction at the start but it does not give you any main tips or a lot of money 
 to start with so you will need to go your own way in the world. On overall gameplay you do not 
 need to do much in the form of effort because things such as attacks are automated all you need 
 to do is give the instruction to start. There alot of different spells that you at your disposal 
 which have a variety of effects from protection and enhancing spells to stat lowering and damage 
 spells. They are all limited to the job that you have got and you have to buy them. Because of 
 te variety of spells and abilities that your characters can obtain and learn as you level means 
 you have to pay close attention to the battle and pick the perfect time for you to use them. I'm 
 afraid to say that the graphics are not as good as expected for an xbox 360 game but due to the 
 fact that it is just a converted PC game then they are quite good because they are all linked and 
 it is a 4 year old game. Alot of the monsters look the same with just different names which is 
 kind of boring as you feel as you are fighting the same things all the time but on the other hand 
 you have to be careful because some monsters have the same appearance but have a giant improvement 
 on strength. Some of the music in the game can get very annoying if you spenda large amount of 
 time in one place but if you spread out across the world then the music can be enjoyable. They 
 have got peaceful songs for quiet less dangerous paces and fast paced and rampant songs inmore 
 dangerous ones. On value for money i do not feel as though that it should be as dear a month because 
 that is an extremely expensive game that could do with the monthly cost lowered or completely abolished. 
 Overall though i would be happy to pay this price for an extremely addictive and exiting game that 
 challenges you at every turn.
  
  ITS A MUST HAVE!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rememberance
Rating: 8.6
Date: Nov 6, 2006 6:33 pm PT
Review:  Another year, another Final Fantasy game. Yet, FF11 takes the series in a direction it has never 
 been before. Final Fantasy 11 takes the game online, in the series first Massive Multiplayer Online 
 Role Playing Game. Online only, FF11 offers the same addictive gameplay and massive story that 
 gamers have come to expect from the series and adds the group dynamic. Players are required to 
 depend and work together with other gamers from around the world and on different systems to delve 
 into the story, beat the monsters reach those epic levels. There are a few drawbacks and a few 
 issues, however, FF11 stands as one of the best MMORPGs out there at the moment.
  
  Final Fantasy games are known for their engrossing and deep story lines. Stories and sagas that 
 take hours to finish and when finished, the player is left with a sense of wonder and accomplishment. 
 With the newest Final Fantasy being a MMORPG and completely online with no single player game, 
 many fans were concerned with one thing: How are they going to get the expected Final Fantasy to 
 story to work with an online audience? Actually, SE did a fine a job making it so that their newest 
 FF game had the engrossing story expected of a FF title while making it available to hundreds of 
 thousands of players across different platforms and levels. The basic premise of the story is that 
 20 years ago a great evil wracked the land of Vana'diel and sent hordes of enemies spewing forth 
 to conquer the civilized lands. Only by allying together and working in unison could the free nations 
 of Bastok, San d'Oria and Windurst drive back the dark. 20 years later, the world is still pulling 
 itself back together. The beastmen *the hordes of evil things* still roam the nations but in much 
 smaller numbers. It is up to your player *if you so choose* to help their nation out and make sure 
 the dark doesn't rise again.
  
  How the story is presented is actually very well done. The games story is broken down into missions 
 and ranks. Each rank has three missions to it. Meaning, if you want to reach rank 2, you must complete 
 the first 3 missions for your nation. With the completion of the third mission you move up a rank. 
 The main story has 6 ranks with Rise of the Zilart expansion adding another 4 ranks. The other 
 two expansions, Chains and Treasures, don't offer ranks, but have their own mission like story 
 segments with final bosses and dungeons all their own. The higher your rank and the more missions 
 you do, the more you uncover the story within FF11. The quests in game don't necessarily continue 
 the story line, they flesh out the world. Each of the 18 jobs have their own unique stories, played 
 out through the flag quests *if the job has one. All the advanced jobs do* and through late game 
 Artifact Armor quests. After that, each nation has quests that flesh out its denizens and people, 
 making Final Fantasy: Online feel like a living, breathing world. There is no way to say just how 
 long the game takes to beat because being a MMORPG, FF11 never ends. However, just speaking about 
 the story line and what it takes to reach rank 10 and get to the final parts of the chains and 
 treasures expansions, a player can expect at least 80 hours of game play . That's only in terms 
 of doing the missions. Actually crafting or leveling or just chatting with friends in game, you're 
 looking at near limitless play time.
  
  Like many MMORPGs, how you play and what you do are completely up to the player. FF11 offers 18 
 jobs and 5 races. With the inclusion of sub jobs *a secondary job added on to your main job* the 
 path should be wide open for many player created job combinations. However, do to how the jobs 
 perform together, you actually have less choices than you would think. FF11 is very gameplay and 
 partied oriented with little room for actual Role Play elements. This is primarily due to how the 
 game is set up. Late in the game, you need tens of thousands of experience points just to level 
 and the monsters give out a max of 300 a kill, people have a need for efficiency and they've weeded 
 out gimped job combos. Whether this is right or wrong, that's up to the individual to decide. But 
 in game, that's how the players behave.
  
  Other than just endless grinding, FF11 does offer quite a bit in ways of side jobs, such as crafting. 
 Actually, other than leveling, doing missions and crafting, there is very little to do. The crafts 
 in FF11 are fairly diverse, but only a few will make a player rich. Like the leveling system, crafting 
 is a long process that only gets harder as the player levels their craft. Players can make a profit 
 by selling raw materials to crafters for a profit as well. But like anything else, to make a serious 
 profit, the player needs to level. As unfortunate as it sounds, FF11 is a huge time sink, in terms 
 of both game play and story. Most people will say, to get anywhere, you need to be able to lay 
 down several hours a sitting, somewhere between 4-5 each time you really want to play if you want 
 to get far along in the game. This isn't like other FF games where a player could pick it up for 
 an hour, get a chunk of the game done and then save and continue. Everything is slow about FF 11. 
 However, if you can get past the grind and how long just about everything takes, FF11 really opens 
 up and becomes an immersive game.
  
  Unlike other FF games, FF11 is not an active battle system. Well, to an extent. The way battles 
 work is that every monster is on screen at once. When you are attacked or attack a monster, the 
 player enters combat. You can move freely in combat to either move behind a monster or to run away. 
 Each swing of your weapon or each casting of a spell takes a certain amount of time. The bigger 
 the weapon or the higher the level of the spell the longer it takes to cast. Each job has a certain 
 amount of job skills to use in combat. These range from increasing accuracy to summoning a pet 
 wyvern to aid the character. Each character can also use any ability of their sub job that is available, 
 which can add up to quite the list of special abilities.
  
  Like more recent additions to the FF family, characters can unleash attacks very similar to Limit 
 breaks or over drives or any other name you wish to call them. These are called weapon skills and 
 can be used any time your TP bar reaches 100%. You can TP by being attacked or by attacking a foe 
 with physical attacks. When used in conjunction with other weapon skills, a party can unleash skill 
 chains, which deal an additional amount of elemental damage, depending on what skills were used 
 to create the skill chain in the first place. On top of performing a skill chain, a mage type character 
 can do even more additional damage if they cast a spell with the same element type as the skill 
 chain performed. Skill chains and Magic bursts are key to quick and efficient leveling in the game. 
 Not to mention, the graphics used when these attacks are pulled off make them very fun to do.
 
  
  Not strictly a part of game play, but important none the less to the enjoyment of the game is the 
 chat system. Within the world of Vana'diel a player has several different ways to chat with other 
 players. You can join guilds, called Linkshells, and chat with members inside your guild. You can 
 chat with fellow party members, send private messages to other players, speak to other players 
 in your general vicinity using the /say command or scream your message to the entire zone using 
 the /shout command. However, because this game is cross platform and a MMORPG using SquareEnixs 
 servers, voice chat is available. Instead, a player must invest in either an USB keyboard or a 
 wireless keyboard. Players can speak through voice chat, but it's only through their XBox live 
 friends list and is outside of normal game play. Every player is encouraged to get a keyboard so 
 that they can communicate with other players.
  
  For being a 4 year old game and a game that crosses 3 different systems, the graphics in FF11 are 
 top notch. By no means are they next gen graphics like some more recent games released on the 360, 
 they are none the less lush and vibrant. There are some very breath taking views to be had in this 
 game. Each monster is fully detailed, some of which tower over the player and leave a person with 
 a sense of awe. Tougher monsters which struck fear into the hearts of players in older FF games 
 make a come back, now, fully fleshed out and formed. You can walk around many of the larger monsters 
 and see them in full glory. The only real draw back with the graphics is how similar all players 
 are. With only 5 races and only a few faces to choose for each, all players will eventually see 
 their twin or triplet or long lost cousin. It's not a very large problem, but the character creation 
 in FF11 is lacking a bit. Also, character armors are a bit bland. Not that they aren't fleshed 
 out or anything, it's just that several armor types look exactly the same. It's not till late game 
 when a player can give their character a sense of individuality. SE is always coming out with new 
 armor types and weapon models, yet, for a long time, your character will look like every other 
 mighty warrior or crafty mage.
  
  In terms of comparison with other the other versions of FF11 *those on the PC and PS2*, playing 
 on the 360 is like playing the PC version on max settings with no lag. You're getting the best 
 this game can offer, which is actually pretty good. All 3 versions play on the same servers and 
 play together. So 360 players are playing with PC players and PS2 players from all over the world. 
 In terms of MMORPGs, the graphics are among the best to be offered. Considering the other systems 
 that are running this game as well, that feat takes on whole new meaning.
  
  In terms of character creation, there are 5 races a player can choose from and 8 different facial 
 graphics. Each face has two different colors for hair. That's it. However, each character can be 
 any job in the game and each character can unlock all jobs and play all jobs. Unlike other MMORPGs, 
 your one character can be and level all the jobs available in the game. So you're never really 
 doomed with how you build your character. Since any race can be any job and you can switch jobs 
 pretty much at will, you can always do something else.
  
  There are 18 jobs in this game, 6 basic jobs that are available at start up and 12 that are advanced 
 jobs, meaning that you can only be them once your character has reached level 30 in another job. 
 When you unlock an advanced job, your character doesn't just become that job. Instead, it's added 
 to your job pool and you can now become that job whenever you want. Your new job is at level 1 
 and you must level it all over again. To some, that is way to much leveling, having to level a 
 main to 30, your sub job to half the level of your main, unlocking any advanced jobs you want, 
 leveling them, leveling other sub jobs, it's very daunting and can get a bit annoying if you don't 
 enjoy the leveling system. But like I said earlier, FF 11 is a major time sink. Everything in this 
 game takes time to do. It can either draw you into the game or force you away from it. Many players 
 opt for a quicker leveling system and go to quicker games for their MMORPG needs. Just be warned 
 before trying FF11, it does take time to get anything done. If you can't commit the time, you probably 
 won't get much enjoyment out of the game.
  
  The sounds in game are very nice. Each zone has its own music and ambient sounds, giving each area 
 its own unique feel. You can hear the sounds of water falls and streams and rain falling and your 
 foot steps as you run from place to place. Unfortunately, there really is no character or monster 
 sounds. You get a few, but not like in other games where you will grunt or moan when struck. The 
 monsters don't growl all the time or call out. Instead, such sounds are very limited to a few special 
 circumstances, such as during a mission cutscene or during a special attack.
  
  On a special note for the 360 version, I've noticed many people ask the same question and that's 
 the fee usually associated with MMORPGs and whether or not their Xbox live gold subscription will 
 cover that charge. The answer is no. If you play on the 360 and you pay for Live Gold, you must 
 still pay the 12.95 a month to play this game. There is good news however. You don't need Live 
 Gold to play FF11 on your 360. The free Live silver is all you need to play this game. So yes, 
 if you have gold, you still must pay the monthly fee. However, if you don't have gold and you just 
 have silver, you're still good to go. You still have to pay the monthly fee. Everyone pays the 
 same fees, whether you're on the 360, the ps2 or the pc version.
  
  Saying that FF11 is addictive is an understatement. This game is highly addictive if you can get 
 into it. The learning curve is high, especially if you've never played a MMORPG before. The amount 
 of time needed to do anything and the dependency on grouping can turn many people off of this game. 
 However, if you can devote the amount of time that this game requires and enjoy grouping and playing 
 with other players, you will find that FF11 offers hours of fun and an engrossing story line. The 
 best part is that your adventure never has to end. As long as you continue to enjoy the game, the 
 game never ends. You can always find something to do, either questing for that scroll you need 
 or fighting that fierce notorious monster, FF11 never ends. If you like crafting more than fighting, 
 you can do that. If you're a fighter at heart and just wish to kill the beasties, you can. How 
 much you get out of this game is up to how much. The game does offer a free month trial period, 
 however, if you buy the game, you can't return it. This is due to the registration codes being 
 one time only use. Very much worth the 50 dollar fee, even if you just play for the free month. 
 If you're a fan of the Final Fantasy franchise or just want to try out a new MMORPG, give Final 
 Fantasy 11 a shot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: djnesh21
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 13, 2006 5:39 am PT
Review:  Final Fantasy xi for the xbox 360 was far better than i expected as i a not a fan of final fantasy 
 but felt i should give this one try. Installing time yes this is a bit of an issue, it takes about 
 three hours to install , yes this is a very long time but you can't say the game game is bad just 
 because it takes a while to install. I had some one on my friends list who gave me a world pass 
 to there world when i first started and i didin't have a clue what to do for a long time but lots 
 of people are helpfull and will point you in the right dirrection or even give you money. Now i 
 am in a gruop of people who all help each other but basically before you do any missions you build 
 up your levels witch you can do with friends Also in our group we use a Link shell a link shell 
 is something we use so we can talk to each other when we are any were in the game which is usefull 
 seeing that a lot of people that you will see , will either run away or ignore you There is lots 
 of little side missions that you can do witch get you money (gil) i tend to spend my money at the 
 auction house at the auction house players can sell there weapons, arrmor etc etc etc it is a good 
 way to communicate with others and get some sweet weapons. So at 8.99 &lt; Great british pounds 
 a month i feel this is well worth it and if you intend to get this game dont expect to jump right 
 into fighting the big monsters you will need patience and must start fighting the little things 
 and as they say good things come to those who wait. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maxinshoes
Rating: 6.9
Date: Jan 21, 2007 12:03 pm PT
Review:  PROS:
  A huge expansive world
  A great way to socialize with other freaks
  
  CONS:
  Takes roughly 4 hours to install
  Graphics are outdated
  Gameplay is slow
  
  The eleventh 
 installment to the series was a major hit for PC and PS2, what went wrong? The 360 is more powerful 
 than the PS2, so why did it end up being the PS2's chew toy? They had a more powerful system and 
 an extra 1 or 2 years, and they produce this! WHY!? Graphically disasterous, sound worthey of a 
 golden raspberry award for music (for those who don't know what it is, its the award for really 
 crap films) , gameplay so slow a snail could whip you at it, not worth 25 quid and it's the black 
 sheep of the series.
  The only good thing is that you'll probably be playing this game for the rest of your short life 
 (which probably isn' a good thing) , which leads on to my next 2 points. Not ONE unlockable achievement 
 and only works online, you might as well just put the game on Live and let people download it, 
 that way they can steer clear of the game.
  Do not buy this unless you are a FF fanatic, but even then you should only rent it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: grimboj
Rating: 3.6
Date: Sep 2, 2006 4:48 am PT
Review:  I love the mmorpg genre and am obsessed with my XBOX but this game just isnt fun. The game is a 
 confusing and intense solo grind from lvl 1 and the skills, amor and weapon upgrades are few and 
 far between so its basically an endless hack and slash with no relief. The monthly fee is out-dated 
 for the age and population of the game and the amount of walking and death penalty are just sheer 
 annoyances. If you have a completely free trial - go for it, hell, maybe you'll like it. The graphics 
 are OK but the game still lags when youre jus stood in a town despite the fact that the graphics 
 are mediocre by next gen standards. At the end of the day, its not horrible but I had no desire 
 to return to playing it after the 2nd session. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darkcat1
Rating: 8.1
Date: Aug 28, 2006 1:50 pm PT
Review:  I will start off by saying that this game is 4 years old and comparing it to Obvlion (band new non-linear 
 type Offline RPG) is a total disservice to the gaming community as the game is a straight port 
 and not a total revamp and FFXI should be rated as such. The game is also much bigger than Oblivion... you 
 could probabaly fit all of the areas in Oblivion in one tiny corner of the FFXI world!
  
  Still other reviews try to compare this game to things like World of Warcarft as well but they 
 are two different veigns of the same genre. FFXI is not based on the same instantly fast leveling 
 as WoW (which spoils players rotten!) ... this is a game for the long haul. The game is full of quests 
 and missions to do... in fact in this aspect it's easily longer than any offline RPG. The FF job 
 system still holds up and allows you to level mutiple classes on the same character unlike things 
 like WoW and Everquest where you must start over in order to play a new class. Yes as the reviewer 
 said some newbies are abit displaced, but the community is usually pretty nice about helping you 
 out. Content is continually added to the game almost on a monthly basis... incuding most recently 
 some Acheviments (by speaking to certian bard NPCs) and the abitlity to raise your own Chococo. 
 The latest expansion: Treasures of Aht Ungan is also included giving you more content than you 
 wana shake a stick at!
  
  I will say the graphics (although still pretty good) are getting a bit dated but they easily beat 
 Everquest and WoW (I hate that cartoony look) . MMORPGs often get dated graphics since they run for 
 years but in FFXI's case they still hold up well next to other games in the same genre.
  
  Some Xbox 360 players will complain that they have to pay a monthly fee but as MMORPGs go this 
 one does not cost that much. The $12.95 a month is pretty resonable for the genre as other games. 
 Also alot of these players misunderstand the fee system and think that because they have paid Microsoft 
 for Xbox Live gold (the game only requires Xbox Live Silver which is free) they should play this 
 for free. They forget that the game is run by Square Enix and operates on servers that are not 
 conncted to Xbox live but run by Square.
  
  The battle system is an attempt to combine real-time with the old ATB system that the FF series 
 is known for. The mele jobs auto-attack based on thier weapons delay and occosionally issue a command 
 to do something instesting based on the job you're playing. Mages constantly cast spells... eiter 
 to deal dammge or to heal the party. All these commands are on times and most of the frequntly 
 used ones have timers of 1 minute or less (in the case of Spells... much less) . I believe this was 
 done for ballece issues as some things are quite powerfull like say the 2hr move each job has for 
 when the fur hits the fan! Overall you have a very deep game with lots of missions, quests and 
 even several storylines... even some of these sidequests have fun little stories all their own. 
 If you think you can dedicate yourself, make new friends and face some cool challanges you have 
 to give this game a chance. If not I think you should go forget this an play (lame) World of Warcraft.... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: toby182
Rating: 3.3
Date: Aug 17, 2006 12:46 pm PT
Review:  Final Fantasy. What a series, never failing to produce a bad game in the series . . . until now. 
 Final Fantasy 11 is a MMORPG (Massively Multiplayer Online Role-Playing Game) which requires you 
 to play with other people, get stronger from fighting monsters and doing different quests. At first, 
 it takes ages to get the game installed and set up, when you do, ok the graphics are "last-gen" 
 quality, still its got to be good right? The bad thing is that you dont know what the hell you 
 do to start off. When you find monsters, you cant tell your character what to do, s/he justs goes 
 on ato-attack and wait til you either win or lose. The abilties can only be used once and then 
 you have to wait for ages to use it again. 
  
  Its all just rubbish, what have square done, lets hope final fantasy 12 makes up for it in the 
 U. K. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BenSr
Rating: 8.2
Date: Aug 8, 2006 4:27 am PT
Review:  Well, I'm trying something different. I'm playing FFXI. This game is quit different, it's a little 
 like Oblivion, but the way you play is a little like some of the LOTR games. Set up time on 360 
 is about 3 hours and takes up 5 gigs! You have to pay to play! It's $13.00 a month, Why? Well you're 
 on someone else's server. This is and older game, about 3 years. Made for pc or PS2, and recently 
 made for 360. One thing cool about this game and I would like to see it happen with others is that 
 even though you're playing on your 360 you can interact with ppl on their PC or PS2. you can talk 
 with them like you can with the 360, but you can tex them. I picked up a key board for my 360 it 
 makes things alot easier. I have a ZBOARD now. It's pretty cool and it's made for gaming. It has 
 keys for gaming, like movement, reload, crouch, switch weapons and all the other need things to 
 play in a game. 
  
  Anyways I read some reviews and alot of ppl knocked the graphics! I myself feel that they're not 
 to bad. I could understand that this game was basically made to play on the 360 and to totally 
 re due the graphics for it being 5 gigs might of added some extra cost to the game. I feel alot 
 of 360 gamers are not into these type of games that much a Xbox was taking a chance. You also get 
 a couple expansion packs with the 360, to where on the other platforms you have to pay. This is 
 a nice perk.
  
  There is alot to learn and before you can go on any main missions you need to build your level 
 up, just like Oblivion. This is time consuming. I've been pretty lucky to meet another gamer that 
 has been helping me out. He's been like a mentor with this game showing me the ropes. You're able 
 to pick your character like Oblivion. I'm an Elf Warrior w/ some mage skills ( like my secondary 
 power) . I play with Burnout ( my friend) he's an Elf wizard. I kill things while he heals me. We 
 both gain in our skills Also if you're fighting alone someone can and might come up to you and 
 heal you while your battling a monster. This really surprised me. It's is a quit friendly atmosphere 
 and the other gamers like helping out. If you have a question you can ask anyone for some help. 
 This is pretty cool.
  
  Now there are ways that you can hook up with other gamers already playing to what is called Party 
 and play together as a team. There is alot of different ways of playing this game out and I'm interested 
 in it. Like I said earlier I like the game. If you have some patients, like Role Playing story's, 
 adventure, and the Oblivion time setting you might like this game, but there is alot to learn! 
 Lots of buttons and typing to interact with others My rate is a strong 8.2.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vinja89
Rating: 5.4
Date: Aug 1, 2006 7:03 pm PT
Review:  well i bought this game on launch day and was very happy with my purchase at first. but gradually 
 it got more boring and more boring. till i was level 20 and asking myself why am i playing this? 
 so i basically just decided to turn the game off and not play it again. if your into mmos i guess 
 it is a good value, but ill wait for phantasy star universe for my 360 online rpg fix. in my opinion 
 you can have a better time playing ghost recon advance warfighter. also no monthly fee. but it 
 does have some strong points. while i was palying i did meet a host of nice people who helped me 
 level up and the sound was really good in my opinion. it just doesnt live up to all the talk i 
 heard this was going to do for the xbox 360 mmo community. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Creed-Me-39
Rating: 2.4
Date: Jul 21, 2006 8:48 pm PT
Review:  Well get ready for some good ol' fashion ''Pretend like you care'' Because this game is based around 
 partying, High Leveled friends, And sucking up, Because you will not get anywhere if you do not 
 have a friend that's willing to help you ALOT.
  
  At first the game sounded cool relying almost completely on party play, But it's not, Because that's 
 all you will be doing till about... Wait who am i kidding Forever All you will be doing is sitting 
 with that little sign above your heading marking that you need a party for quite some time..
  
  The fact is in the game there are these jobs (classes) Such as Warrior, Thief, White mage, Etc, 
 So you level one of these jobs to 30 but at level 18 you get a Sub-Job Which requires it's own 
 mission, Once you get your Sub-Job You have to level it up to half your current level, And then 
 there are other classes called Advanced Jobs (Samurai, Ninja, Dragoon) Etc, these jobs require you 
 to get to Level 30 with one of the regular jobs (Warrior, Thief, White mage) Etc, But that's not 
 all you have to do, in order to be able to use an advanced job you have to complete a special mission, 
 This can range anywhere from waiting somewhere for 3 hours (Real time) , To fighting a monster roughly 
 20 levels higher then you, And that is where sucking up comes in, So you hit up your friend that's 
 around level 75, Oh ya and if you don't have a friend around lvl 75 well, You have 2 options you 
 can bribe someone with that hard earned money, Or give up.
  
  So basically, Once you hit 30 you have 2 choices you can
  A: Continue Leveling your job that's 
 not fun (Warrior, Thief, White Mage) Etc
  B: Start all over leveling up an advanced job (Samurai, Ninja, Dragon) Etc
  
  Yes, That's right 
 all you do is level First your regular job to 18, Then your sub job to half your current level (But 
 as you go on with your main job you have to level up your Sub-Job it doesn't gain experience as 
 you use your main job, you have to level them separately) Then once you've cleared up your Sub-Job 
 you can continue on with your main job to 30, Then you start over from level 1. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NeDi2004
Rating: 6.9
Date: Jul 21, 2006 3:46 pm PT
Review:  I got this game after playing it on the pc for just under a year didnt expect much of an up grade 
 but i got to relax more =) .
  
  Story -
  
  As this is an MMORGP it doesnt really have a story basically just level your character up and 
 complete quests and missions with a "Party" of people if you choose to do so. this is just the 
 tip of the ice tho folks even know i have spent over a year at it i still have ALOT and i mean 
 ALOT of more things to do in it so this game WILL keep you entertained for a Very long time.... 
 if you can stick "long" and i mean 5000+ hours long...
  
  Sound - 
  
  the sound track is pretty classical and has a "niceish" ring to it first time around as i ways 
 testing it on m 5.1 setup it brings the game a small bit more excitement , but playing the game 
 for a long time the music just starts to piss you off as its just the same score over and over 
 again.
  
  Graphics -
  
  i played the game on the pc a year before it came out for the 360 and its the same looking game 
 in both terms played them on my HDTV both on the pc and 360. before the game was set to launch 
 on the 360 SE stated "there is some updated graphics" for me personal its just a mimic from the 
 pc version with no updates. furthermore evidence that is is just a straight pc port as it lags 
 in the Same places where my pc lagged so it was not full optimized to take advantage of the 360 
 "although no game out so far has" but i wasnt expecting a Whole new overhaul in graphics its just 
 nice to sit back and relax while playing it instead of playing it on a old hard pc chair.
  
  Conclusion - 
  
  This is a fun game if you are in the right mood, and lots of things to 
 do. the price over playability is very good but the big down fall is the 8 - $15 a month, and 
 to play the game and overtime that builds up. if you have not yet tried it give it a go as it comes 
 with a 30 day trial and if u dont like it eBay it ^_^ over all as this is the only MMO ive only 
 and will ever play i would say it done a good job!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: colegallop
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 19, 2006 8:12 am PT
Review:  Okay so this is i think the only online FF out right now. The PC version has been out for almost 
 4 years now so since this one is one 360 there will be alot of other people on 360 with you. Plus 
 the people on ps2. This world is huge and vast. Now granted it doesnt have the best graphics 360 
 has to offer it is still ok the gameplay makes up for it. If you are a FF fan then kiss your social 
 life goobye! This game is so vast and large, there are so many mission you can do and not even 
 touch the story line which isnt very good anyway. There are alot of classes to choose from Warrior 
 to samurai and ninja. each has its advantages and disadvantages. One of the cooler ones is dragoon 
 which allows you to control a dragon to fight with you while you fight. There is so much to tell 
 i cant even type it all. There are chocobos and if you dont know what they are they are giant chicken 
 things you use to ride for faster travel. Also a cool edition is whats called the auction house 
 which is sort of an ebay system where you put items up and people bid on them. It is the main place 
 to get most of your supplies. There are also there are 5 races of peoplem to choose each good at 
 certain things. Like the tarutaru's are small and dont have alot of HP but are good with magic. 
 Galka's are giant things that are very strong, it all depends on how you want top play. If i didnt 
 already say how big the world is well it is. I've seen up to 4,000 people on at one time. There 
 are always people online from Europe and Japan, China. Luckely you can plug a keyboard into the 
 360 but it must be USB. IT is very important for communication. I would suggest you have a higher 
 lvl friend that can tell you all the rules and details. Yes there is a $13.00 fee every month but 
 that is how it is like it or not. You do not need xboxlive gold to play eaither so that should 
 save some money. Almost like clans in Halo 2 there are linkshells, if you find a one for begginers 
 they will help you with alot of stuff adn questions. The best party about this game is getting 
 a party of 6 and going out to fight something together that alone would be imposible. There are 
 healers and warriors all working together to beat a strong monster. If you like FF but never tried 
 a MMO you should check this out if you buy it new you get a 30 day trial to make up your mind. 
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Arsenic_Toast
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 17, 2006 5:05 pm PT
Review:  Welcome to the world of Final Fantasy XI. You may think a score of 10 is too high, and in fact 
 i'd probably give it a 9.6, but a 10 is good for partially negating some of the MANY uninformed 
 and terribly biased reviews here that must be written by middle schoolers, or at least adults with 
 the maturity and mentality of middle schoolers, including the official review by the big man Greg 
 K. himself, who gave a moderately honest review upon the PS2 release, but has allowed himself to 
 be spoiled by World of Warcraft's lack of content and extreme case of instant gratification. But, 
 that is neither here nor there.
  
  Copied from http://whren. livejournal. com/98646. html, this is what you can do in FFXI:
  
  - 
 Missions (city, Zilart, Promathia)
  - Crafting (a whole new game unto itself; high level crafters hold as much respect and as much 
 power -- in the form of economic power -- as HNM people with HNM gear)
  - Chocobo digging (sounds silly to put here, but chocobo digging is like a craft in itself)
  
 - small NMs that don't require multiple alliances to defeat (non HNM people can still camp Sozu 
 Rogberry, for example)
  - ENMs (plenty only require a party instead of many more people)
  - BCNMs and 1-party KSNMs (nuff said)
  - Sea farming (all the items obtained from the In The 
 Name of Science quest can be gained in a small party or solo)
  - Limbus (18 man only)
  - Dynamis (normally, this would be classified as a hardcore raiding type thing, but somehow FFXI's 
 playerbase has managed to 'mercenary-ify' it, meaning even a casual high level can join a mercenary 
 Dynamis shell, do some Dynamis, have a chance at AF2, and have no commitment other than Dynamis 
 twice a week) .
  - Garrison (plenty of social linkshells do this as a small event)
  - Expeditionary Force (if you're really serious about promoting your nation)
  - Merits (this 
 places both HNM people and non-HNM people on the same level; to work for one goal: getting limit 
 points)
  - helping others and lower levels out (in WoW the game is such that lower levels don't NEED your 
 help; in fact it would slow them down)
  - level another job (about the same as leveling an alt in WoW, only that once you get it to a decent 
 your character has more versatility -- eg. whm to 38 for teleporting yourself)
  - leveling your NPC and doing related NPC quests (any high level can do this either alone or in 
 small groups)
  - making gil (in FFXI, gil is more useful than gold in WoW, because about the only thing you really 
 want to buy is your epic mount, and after that you can only spend gold on mediocre AH items compared 
 to raid items. In FFXI, you can never have enough gil -- see point 3 below. So you never really 
 feel like you have absolutely nothing to do, you have a goal to look forward to. "Oh, I'm saving 
 up for such-and-such item.") -- gardening, harvesting, excavating, mining, logging.
  -Besieged (hundreds of people in the city of Al Zahbi using strategy and brute strength to protect 
 the city from hordes of beastmen)
  -Assault Missions
  
  WoW has (for those not in a large raiding guild) :
  - smaller instances that don't require 40 
 people to defeat (eg. Upper Blackrock Spire, or UBRS)
  - Battlegrounds PVP (only if you're up against people who raid, you're going to lose because their 
 gear shoots out sparkles while you still have to polish yours)
  - level an alt character (only so many you can do, and these don't carry over to your main character)
 
  - gain honor points by killing members of the opposing side and up your rank (which doesn't do 
 a lot except make you look important)
  
  One might say "Well, WoW hasn't been out as long", and while this is true, WoW also got to see 
 an MMO with a massive amount of content before it came out, and had plenty of time to include a 
 massive amount of content. WoW focuses on making the player FEEL like he's getting somewhere, but 
 with little to no effort. Getting to 60 in WoW takes about as much effort as getting to level 20 
 in FFXI, and even then, you feel more accomplished in FFXI when you complete your Chocobo quest 
 and your subjob quest than you do getting to level 60 in WoW. Please, if you're going to review 
 this game, make sure you've at least gotten to level 60 with a full set of artifact gear and Rank 
 6 before you try to pass off your opinion as valid. Most of you guys haven't even touched this 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SkyBluNightWolf
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jul 10, 2006 4:12 am PT
Review:  Okay so this is i think the only online FF out right now. The PC version has been out for almost 
 4 years now so since this one is one 360 there will be alot of other people on 360 with you. Plus 
 the people on ps2. This world is huge and vast. Now granted it doesnt have the best graphics 360 
 has to offer it is still ok the gameplay makes up for it. If you are a FF fan then kiss your social 
 life goobye! This game is so vast and large, there are so many mission you can do and not even 
 touch the story line which isnt very good anyway. There are alot of classes to choose from Warrior 
 to samurai and ninja. each has its advantages and disadvantages. One of the cooler ones is dragoon 
 which allows you to control a dragon to fight with you while you fight. There is so much to tell 
 i cant even type it all. There are chocobos and if you dont know what they are they are giant chicken 
 things you use to ride for faster travel. Also a cool edition is whats called the auction house 
 which is sort of an ebay system where you put items up and people bid on them. It is the main place 
 to get most of your supplies. There are also there are 5 races of peoplem to choose each good at 
 certain things. Like the tarutaru's are small and dont have alot of HP but are good with magic. 
 Galka's are giant things that are very strong, it all depends on how you want top play. If i didnt 
 already say how big the world is well it is. I've seen up to 4,000 people on at one time. There 
 are always people online from Europe and Japan, China. Luckely you can plug a keyboard into the 
 360 but it must be USB. IT is very important for communication. I would suggest you have a higher 
 lvl friend that can tell you all the rules and details. Yes there is a $13.00 fee every month but 
 that is how it is like it or not. You do not need xboxlive gold to play eaither so that should 
 save some money. Almost like clans in Halo 2 there are linkshells, if you find a one for begginers 
 they will help you with alot of stuff adn questions. The best party about this game is getting 
 a party of 6 and going out to fight something together that alone would be imposible. There are 
 healers and warriors all working together to beat a strong monster. If you like FF but never tried 
 a MMO you should check this out if you buy it new you get a 30 day trial to make up your mind. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Drez769
Rating: 5.4
Date: Jul 9, 2006 10:43 am PT
Review:  This game is not MEANT to be different from the other versions. I have no clue what the Gamespot 
 review was trying to prove. The point is they want xbox players to have access to the online community 
 with the other console and pc players.
  
  This game does NOT feel "awkward" or "out of place". It's just different because it does not have 
 achievements. It makes sense, because you can't really base achievements on an exclusively multiplayer 
 game.
  
  This game should have an equal score to the playstation version.
  
  Sure, they could have done a better job by adding xbox-only servers w/chat capabilities, or some 
 other innovations. But that's not the main point of bringing this game to light for the Xbox 360. 
 More importantly, it's meant to appeal to fans of MMO (massive multiplayer online) games.
  
  As for the game, I won't spend the time to review it, but personally I found it very boring. 
 (try spending an hour just walking around a game world-not as fun as it might sound) Just think, 
 your paying more than $10 a month for ONE game, whereas xbox LIVE you just pay about $6 for access 
 to many other games online. Probably better ones as well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hipppvix
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 30, 2006 10:35 pm PT
Review:  First there was Fable, then there was Oblivion, and now for the Xbox is FINAL FANTASY 11! Plus 
 it has great online play, but the only bad thing about that is the loading time for the Playonline 
 and the FFxi, which all together takes about an hour and a half. But you don't have the option 
 to play offline though.
  
  When you first start out you can choose from six jobs: Warrior, White Mage, Black Mage, Theif, 
 Monk, and Red Mage. Then to get a support job you have to get to level eightteen. And to do the 
 missions for special jobs you have to be level thirty, which include: Paladin, Dark Knight, Summoner, 
 Dragoon, Samurai, Ninja, Bard, Ranger, Beastmaster, Blue Mage, Corsair, and Puppetmaster. Then 
 to level up you have to kill enemies of all kinds that differ from area to area.
  
  Also when you first start out there are three areas that you can start at: San d'Oria, Bastok, 
 and Windurst. But depending on when you start your person depends what world you start at. Even 
 though each world has all the same computers and places, there are different players in each world. 
 But, there are also world passes that you can use to bring your friendss over to your world.
  
  Then there are also guilds that you can join like the: Alchemy Guild, Blacksmiths' Guild, Boneworkers' 
 Guild, Carpenters' Guild, Culinarians' Guild, and the Goldsmiths' Guild.
  
  Plus there are also mines that you can go into and find Mining Points. But, first to mine you must 
 buy a pickaxe. Then go over to the Mining Point and go to your items, then use your pickaxe. And 
 you can find pebbles, snapping moles, copper ore, tin ore, iron ore, zinc ore, darksteel ore, and 
 many other things.
  
  Also there are many quest that you can do to recive rewards, get higher fame, and for something 
 to do. But for each area you have different fame levels.
  
  And there are expansions that you can install that give you more items, areas and things to do, 
 like different missions and quests.
  
  Then with some characters like: White Mage, Black Mage, Red Mage, Paladin, Dark Knight, Bard, and 
 Blue Mage that use spells. To use spells for most jobs you need to get scrolls that you can buy 
 at the store, at the auction house, or find them at enemies. Then you go to your items, select 
 the scroll, target yourself, press A, then you learn that new spell. But, Blue Mages only learn 
 their spells from their enemies.
  
  Well that's about it, but I'm sure there is much more that you can do so go have fun with Final 
 Fantasy 11! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nynthninja
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 23, 2006 12:10 pm PT
Review:  I love the game its definetly a grab a phattie and sit down for hours game tho so if you dont have 
 dedicated time the game may be useless to you.. but if you do man this game will take all your time, 
 also i hate ppl complaining about the graphics its what 3-4 yrs old??? yoo should expect that when 
 u buiy the game. I love the battle system, Auction House, Parties, Chat i can say i truly enjoy 
 all aspects of the FFXI world. So if ya got time and $$ and are lookin to spend 500+ hours by all 
 means pick it up!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mathieugagne
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jun 23, 2006 7:56 am PT
Review:  My question is do i need a keyboard even on 360 thats what my friend told me and do i need to only 
 pay xboxlive for 1year or pay every month like PC Version or WOW?? And how the loot is working 
 and pvp? I heard about ballistas but nothing interesting is it like wow or like the other FF you 
 select attack and everything spell potions... and how many class? I need to know a bit more about 
 the game before buying it. and can we play with pc and ps2 players? how much time for me to learn 
 how to play it?
  
  Thanks guys i hope it will help me 
::::::

::::::
UserName: trigun459
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jun 22, 2006 9:08 am PT
Review:  If you've played this on the PC or PS2 you won't really get anything new. If you haven't played 
 this game let me tell you what lies ahead for you. After you pop in the disc you're not gonna be 
 playing the game right away. You have to go through quite a long process of installing and updating 
 the Playonline Viewer (Which is required to be able to access the game and takes up 5 GB of your 
 harddrive.) and installing/updating Final Fantasy XI. After this long process you you register 
 the three expansion packs included with the game. Once you've done all of that you can finally 
 create your first character! You can choose from five different races: Hume, Elvaan, Tarutaru, 
 Mithra, and the Galka. You then select one of the eight different faces - each has two different 
 hairstyles. The size (small, medium, large) your job, and finally the name. If you're having trouble 
 coming up with a name just hit the "Y" button and it will suggest one. Accept all of this then 
 lastly choose which nation you would like to join. Congrats! You are now playing Final Fantasy 
 XI! Now about the game. Like any game it has it's pros and cons, this game is no exception. Here 
 is a list :
  
  Pros: Many differnt jobs to choose (18 in total and 6 from the start) . Very unique music that sets 
 it apart from the rest. Controls are pretty simple even on a controller. Online fee of 12.95 a 
 month and 1 dollar extra for any other character you make. You can have up to 16 different characters. 
 Fun to experiment with the subjob system. People who play FFXI are actually nice. (This may differ 
 though to some people because there is always that one person making the gaming experience for 
 someone a bad one.) A very large world to explore. Pretty soon there is going to be a version update 
 that allows you to raise your very own chocobo to help you explore the world of Vana'diel. Loading 
 agreas insn't really that long the most you'll wait is a good 30-45 seconds. Parties can create 
 an "alliance" with other parties to make a large coalition of players. You get tired of the music 
 you can always have custom soundtracks seeing how you're on the 360.
  
  Cons: Level cap is at 75. Takes up 5 GB of your harddrive. Takes a while to level up but thats 
 pretty much in all games. Learning curve may be high for some. The time installing it.
  
  A Couple of things before I wrap this up. Yes the graphics aren't the best that the 360 can produce 
 but its all about the gameplay not the looks granted you don't want to play an eyesore but this 
 game still presents some pretty nice ones. The online fees are only 12.95 thats pretty cheap considering 
 other games out there but its for maintaining servers. So if your being cheap don't look for an 
 MMORPG. This is what I think about Final Fantasy XI and I hope it helped this is my first review 
 on this website so I don't reall expect it to be top notch but I hope it helped.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: minime78362
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jun 20, 2006 1:09 am PT
Review:  Hi everybody I would just like to start my review by saying....-cough-
  STOP COMPLAINING!.
  Thank you.
  Now I understand why you guys are angry, because you are comparing it to other MMO's 
 out there, and that's why you write such horrible reviews.
  I look at it this way, when I'm playing a game, I don't look at it and try to find all the flaws.... I 
 don't say "Hey well world of warcraft had this, and that and this game doesn't".... that's why you 
 hate it. If you didn't like the price of the game... why did you buy it? Hmmm.... yep that makes sense. You 
 complain about the installation, but I guess It's a good thing they put that in there, so you could 
 get out of your fantasy dream world you're in and go spend time with your family that only refers 
 to you as "The Great Dungeon Master". Then they finally get time to talk to you normally before 
 you go off to la-la land.
  ========================================================
  My Review.
  This game isn't the best game i've play by far, but it's not the worst. While playing 
 this game I had/have fun, all the time. People are generally nice, and even though most of the other 
 players are Japanese that's fine. This game has an easy fighting system. It auto attacks for you 
 so you can plan your next move by using Magic, Items or Some ablities from your job. Oh yeah I didn't 
 mention you could change your job with no penalty, so that way if you don't like your job, you can 
 change your job back to the one you had and still have your level. Quests are a little hard considering 
 they don't have the place to go on a map, so you have to use your map and pretty much guess the 
 right area. Leveling is easy and you can pick your fights if you don't want to fight you can just 
 disengage them and run to someplace safe and heal.
  Look I liked this game a lot, so I'm gonna give it a high score.
  Thank you for reading. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shonen151
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jun 17, 2006 7:09 pm PT
Review:  In a few words here is what I think of Final Fantasy XI: Best MMORPG. This game has great graphics 
 and so much fun. There are so many quest. With the three esxpansions there are so much places to 
 visit. There are also new classes to choose from. The only real flaw there was to this game was 
 that when downloading and updating the game and installing everything without the USB keyboard 
 is very hard. If you have a USB keyboard then there will be no problem writing everything. There 
 are lots of people to talk with and you can make friends easily. There is much to do and you might 
 never get board of this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: guitarworld101
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 12, 2006 2:32 pm PT
Review:  very fun game lots of nice ppl and weapons on game and armor fun i recomend this game the graphics 
 arnt too shavy but are still good hdtv quility is amazing. the ppl on the game are nice if u ask 
 them most of them will party with u and if u ask they might even give u some gil the money in the 
 game it has a wide veriety of weapons, such as guns, archery , swords, axes and all sorts i highly 
 recommend this game though it takes a while to get ur lvl all the way up but fun buy now!!!!!!!!!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jonny_reb
Rating: 7.1
Date: Sep 9, 2006 10:07 pm PT
Review:  Final Fantasy XI is my first MMO ever and I will say that its one of the harder and more challenging 
 games ive come across. The game starts you with nothing, so much of the appeal is to work your 
 way up the ranks. Often times the boring leveling up grind and trouble getting into party can be 
 a real pain, but when you are in a party and leveling up its all worth it. The overall gameplay 
 is great when you actually get to play the game but a real pain when your not.
  
  The graphics in the game are absolutly horrible from a technical stand point. It's pretty bad that 
 SE did nothing to enhance them from the 4 year old pc game for a next-gen console. I happen not 
 to really care about this because I forgot about the bad graphics after playing for a while, but 
 i cant help but be dissapointed. At least the game has some really intersting and colurful settings 
 that give it plenty of artistic merit.
  
  Sound on the other hand is really nice with excellent music and decent effects. The downside is 
 that there is no voice acting. 
  Possibly the biggest flaw is the $13 monthly cost to play the game, which feels somewhat undeserved 
 for the lack quality of the game and seriously affects what should be a game with amazing value 
 due to near infinite gameplay. 
  
  If your short on cash then look away from this and get oblivion, but overall its definately worth 
 a look if you have the funds, patience, and endurance. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spartan_FX
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 31, 2006 4:03 am PT
Review:  SO here we have Final Fantasy XI, a game which has been out for 4 years and is on the Xbox 360, 
 More reason for this game to be on the 360 is probly so Microsoft can get License to some FF Games 
 but even though its still a very good game.
  
  Gameplay
  --------------
  Gameplay for this game is more of a 'boring' factor when in combat, all you do is go upto an enemy 
 and attack that is all or if you magic user you use magic, So a little low down on the way you 
 gain abilities, Magic comes in Scrolls which you obtain by killing monsters or buying them from 
 the "Auction House", Each Magic has a Race, Job, and Level required to Obtain and learn them, same 
 with all the items ( Weapons, Earings, Armour etc.) .
  
  Vanadiel
  ------------
  This MMO must have the largest world in any MMO, due to each Area being around a mile or 2 each, 
 Vanadiel has Beaches, Forests, Sand Dunes etc.
  Very Very nice looking aswell and there will be lots of people to help you.
  Also you will be 
 playing with PS2 & PC players yes this game is Multiplatform. The Weather also has a effect on 
 players which can power you down or power you up.
  
  Graphics
  -------------
  Since this is a 4 year old game dont expect the best of graphics, they are really nice with the 
 certain effects, Areas have nice effects and the weather can look really nice aswell. Game is very 
 detailed to make you feel like your in the Final Fantasy World.
  
  Sound
  ----------
  The game has typical brilliance pieces of music from Nobou Uematsu ( the Music Artist for all the 
 Final Fantasy's) and the music comes perfect to get you in the mood for what you are doing, Also 
 the sounds for weapon clashes and attacks, Magic all seem relatively good especially on Surround 
 Sound.
  
  Value
  --------
  The Game is a massive value to do things like chocabo race, go into the ballista (arena tournaments) 
 fish, cook etc. Only if you have the time though, if you do not put alot of time into the game your 
 much likely not going anywhere but slowy creeping up, if you more of a Casual Gamer you might be 
 suited to World Of Warcraft, but this game is for FFFans alike. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bassoonrules27
Rating: 3
Date: May 28, 2006 8:24 am PT
Review:  I'll be quite honest: I used to play Final Fantasy Online at my friend's house a lot. I loved it. 
 When I heard it was coming to the 360, I was kinda excited about reliving old memories. Man... I 
 was wrong.
  
  To start, this game is old. Like 3 years old. And it looks like it. The graphics are abysmal... they 
 look like old PS2 graphics on graphical behemoth, Xbox 360. The lines are jagged, characters are 
 ugly, etc. Gameplay isn't much better. Nothing has changed over the years. Nothing. The only way 
 to really enjoy the game is to have a keyboard and controller, which is a pain in the rear end. 
 The action is dull, the story is lame, the quests are tedious, etc. Need I go on? The music stinks, 
 the sound effects are cheezy... I could go on forever. This game was great years ago, but it isn't 
 fun anymore, especially on the 360. Maybe an updated version would be great, but no, they don't 
 do that either. It's the same old game
  
  The game runs out of PlayOnline, which is a bad program and takes around five-six hours to full 
 download. It takes up 5-6 GB on the HDD... which is 5-6 GB too much. 
  
  If you love this game, that's great. If you haven't played it yet, please stay as far away from 
 it as humanly possible. "I wouldn't touch it with a...3 and a half foot pole!!!!!!!!" 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sircalmar
Rating: 3.9
Date: May 28, 2006 7:21 am PT
Review:  Never having got the hard drive for the ps2, I didn't get to enjoy FFXI when it was fresh and new. 
 Now, they port it to the 360 and... well... lets just say it doesn't feel very fresh and new anymore. 
 After having played WoW, EQ2 and CoH/CoV, it looks... old.
  
  Difficulty - Well, for the few hours I played... not to hard, even if the interface was a bit unwieldy.
 
  
  Graphis - To think, these used to be cutting edge... now they aren't even standard
  
  Sound - A few nice ones but most ledt a lot to be desired
  
  Value - Little to none. The ONLY 
 reason to get this game is if you have friends with ps2s and pcs and all want to play together. 
 Any of the MMO's I mentioned above are better and I am sure there are many more too... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Crimson_Raven
Rating: 5.7
Date: May 27, 2006 11:42 pm PT
Review:  Ok first lets say your are a Final Fantasy Fan and love all the games. You didn't play the PC version 
 or the PS2 version. And you finally have the 360 and you are stoked about playing it. But for some 
 weird reason it takes you 3 hours just to download the game and another 30 minutes just to setup 
 your online profile.
  
  Not to mention the PC version was released October 2003 and the PS2 version was released in March 
 2004. And the 360 version is still $50 bucks. Now I understand that this version includes a new 
 and the old ones as well, But for a game thats 2 and a half years old do you really wanna include 
 it to your Next Gen experience?
  
  To me I think it belongs on Xbox Marketplace to be available for download for 800 credits. That 
 is where all the old games go right?
  
  I played the beta version, and I was not even a little impressed with any part of the game. Graphics, 
 text, environments, characters, they all suck.
  
  Now if you wanna a great RPG then get The Elders Scrolls 4: Oblivion. I've spent more than 114 
 hours playing this game. And I'm still loving it hardcore. It would be a great MMO, but for a single 
 player game its nice to escape reality to. I love that there is a game development team that is 
 staying on top of the game by adding new content just shorty after the game.
  
  I don't mind buying upgrades for a game I love to play while I'm still into the game. Its those 
 upgrades that come 6 months down the road after I have moved on and I'm past that game.
  
  So I say again , Is it worth it to play an almost 3 year old game that takes 3 to 4 hours to just 
 setup for $50 bucks ???????
  
  You tell me......
  
  Oh wait, P. S. to all you Xbox 360 achievement addicts out there, There are NONE. Sorry 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ultrazone
Rating: 7.7
Date: May 25, 2006 9:30 pm PT
Review:  I picked this up for 360 after trading in a boatload of non-backwards compatible games, and was 
 feeling kind of bored with World of Warcraft. Now, I'll say this right off the bat, if you're into 
 PvP, dont bother, there really isn't any. If you're the kind of MMO player who enjoys questing 
 particularly with fellow gamers, this is great. While WoW has a good questline of its own, endgame 
 gets rediculously demanding and difficult. Haven't really experienced that with this. This game 
 plays really well on 360's controller. I'd suggest you hook up a USB keyboard for this one though, 
 mainly for chat functions. Only real downer to this one is the installation time. For some, it 
 takes 2 hours. For others, 5. Me? 9. mainly because i kept on losing my connection while it downloaded 
 an assload of files to update my game. That frustration set aside, everything else is pretty good. 
 Of course, like almost all MMORPG's, this one has a monthly fee, so, if you dont care about parting 
 with 12 bucks a month along with the 50 bucks for the game, go for it. Now, dont expect beefed 
 up visuals on this one, but, it still looks good and runs a lot smoother than it would on a average 
 PC. That said, if you're a MMO fan and you dig Final Fantasy, this is a sure bet. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RpCow492
Rating: 7
Date: May 25, 2006 12:16 am PT
Review:  It's a pretty fun MMO, takes lots of time and gameplay. Ive played WoW and this game so far and 
 i really like it. The areas, town, and scenery is really beautiful in this game. The sorround sound 
 feature is great and makes you get the action inside. But, this game can be pretty difficult to 
 new players and i recommend this game to serious players. Money, Equipment, groups and Ranking is 
 mostly what people would base it on. But theres fun things like PVP (Ballista) , BCNM (Burning circle 
 Notorious Monster) , Garrisons and other fun activities. To help make money to do such things as 
 Farm, Craft and Auctioning is good. This game is mostly is based on Grouping (parties) and teamwork. 
 You can join Linkshells (like a guild but, can join more than depending on inventory space.) to 
 help out. This game is solo from lv 1-10. You must have a decent equipment, skills and weapon to 
 party at lv 10. At beggining times it will hard at first then become hangy. You can lv many jobs 
 and unlock new jobs at lv 30. Get subjobs to increase ur stats and skills. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scionwolf321
Rating: 8.1
Date: May 24, 2006 5:44 pm PT
Review:  Even though I haven't played the game yet. I have to say that FF 11 has to be the best online game 
 ever. It gives you a chance to see how many ppl are actual FF fans and you get to see a new style 
 of FF play. In this one you get to move around. Also in the up coming FF 12 will do the same thing. 
 Personly this game will let me meet anyone I like and look anything I want. So my all score will 
 have to be 8.8. The game is good but some of the graphics could be improved on but the rest is 
 grate.
  
  Final Fantasy player now and forever ~scionwolf321~ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: playforpride372
Rating: 8
Date: May 23, 2006 12:47 pm PT
Review:  i am playing the 2 month free trial that you get in the case, and it is really good! If it did 
 not cost 12 dollars a month, i would give this game a 9 out of 10. it is really good. if you have 
 enough money, get the game. i have played both final fantasy XI and war of warcraft, and i say 
 final fantasy is better. i love this game but after the two months expire i am going to pull off 
 and not play until i get more money. i play it everyday because i will not play it after 2 months. 
 i will miss it then 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ub3r_logic
Rating: 4.5
Date: May 22, 2006 3:25 pm PT
Review:  In short, this game is not worth whatever amount you spend on it and I'll elaborate on that later. 
 Firstly, this game has been out for years. In fact, for those still unaware, this game was first 
 published on the ps2; yes the ps2, a console that will soon be overshadowed by it's successor after 
 five years on the throne. There is absolutely no graphical upgrades in this game, and since the 
 xbox 360's architecture made it easy for the developers to port, there should be nothing to justify 
 the hefty price tag. 
  
  Now, on with the actual gameplay. It is a very well designed game with a very balanced job system. 
 Each job can group with many other jobs and there doesn't seem to be one predominant job that can 
 just own the hell out of all the other jobs. Each job has their own strengths and weaknesses. You 
 will learn that you are weak as individuals, but stronger as one. One could only imagine the amount 
 of time it took developers to tweak each individual stat to get the game to play so balanced. 
 
  
  Unfortunately, this is the only area where the game shines. Like most mmorpgs, the game consists 
 of very bland and very very repetitive fighting. Although your character develops newer skills 
 as they advance, fighting is very routine and systematic. It's casting the same spell every time, 
 doing the same things everytime. You join a party, and create a battle routine with them (which 
 could be different depending on what job combinations you have) . But past that, there is no customization 
 period. You just use the same battle tactics until your party disbands.
  
  The learning curve on this game is also especially steep. You cannot begin to fully enjoy the game 
 until later levels, but most people don't have the endurance to go through endless hours of killing 
 bunnies and worms before they are allowed to kill bunnies and worms of different colors! Not exactly 
 a game for casual gamers. Overall, if you've never played this game before and you're looking to 
 invest your life savings into a game, this is not the one. However, if you've already been playing 
 this game for several years, and can't afford a supercomputer to run it smoothly, I'd recommend 
 ebaying this game and save yourself some money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Livewirez
Rating: 5.5
Date: May 22, 2006 6:29 am PT
Review:  I bought this for the x360 because i was fed up playing the game hunched over a PC and it allowed 
 me to relax on the sofa and enjoy the game in HD glory, or so i thought. When installing the game 
 i noticed that the updates took less time to download, 2 hours it took rather than the 4-6 hours 
 it normally takes on the PC. I was soon playing the game quicker than I though and realised that 
 although the Playonline viewer looks like it's in HD , the actual game looks no different than 
 than the PC version. Apparently there are some new added effects in the x360 version, but none 
 that i noticed while playing it for a free month trial and i'm level 57 (i reactivated an old account) 
 so if there were any i should have noticed them unless they're so minute they're unoticeable so 
 i would not buy this game expecting better graphics, they're the same. To further prove this, i 
 used my HD TV as a PC monitor and played FFXI months before buying my x360 and x360 version of 
 the game and i noticed no difference what's so ever between the two. 
  
  There actual gameplay is no different from the PC version, no surprise there, except you have to 
 use the x360 control pad instead of a mouse which is just an inconvience really because you have 
 to set it down everytime you go to type on the keyboard. So i just used the keyboard by itself 
 by using the up, down, right, left arrows and arrows on the numbers pad to move around. I'd highly 
 recomend using a keyboard mainly because the game is a keyboard game and you'd have a hard time 
 using the x360 control pad to play the game since it's painfully slow select typing (selecting 
 the keys with the d-pad and stick) and it hasn't got the shortcut keys that a keyboard has (obviously) . 
 
  
  As for the value of the game, i think that 30 is a reasonable price to pay for those who have 
 never played the game because the PC version costs around 8-15 with the 2 expansion packs, the 
 new expansion pack costs around 10-15 adding up to 30 or less. But your much better off just 
 playing the game on the PC because of the inconviences on the x360 it just doesn't fit into place 
 properly on the 'next gen' console. Dont be lured in by the supposedly 'HD'.
  
  Like i said the gameplay hasn't changed but for those who have never played the game before it's 
 rather simple. You make your character by selecting a race, gender and name. You then pick a suitable 
 job for you to start yourself off, jobs can fall into 3 basic catageries; Magic/Mage, Melee and 
 jobs that are a bit of both. The choose a Nation to start off in which you can later fight for 
 in a torunament called Balista when your higher level. Balista is a tournament that faces all 3 
 nations; Windurst, San D'oria and Bastok, against each other for control over the region. 
  
  But the main idea of the game is to level up which can be really addictive despite the linear 
 gameplay. To level up a character you can fight solo which you will have to do for a short time 
 at the start of the game until lvl 10 and then you can join a party. A party will need certain 
 jobs for different attributes and abbilities like Mages who can cause magic damage or heal other 
 team players. 'Damage dealers' who obviously do damage but are not strong enough to take alot of 
 damage so there are 'tank' jobs that take the majority of the damage due to their high defence, 
 health points or abbilities. In a party people will fight monsters to gain experience to go up 
 to the next level or to band together and complete quests. As you go up in levels you'll be able 
 to wear better gear, magic and weapons. The game is also a very social game because you'll have 
 to talk to people to proceed through the game like talking to people to join parties and to buy/sell 
 items, ask advice etc.. a keyboard is definately required. I bought a uSB adapter to use my keyboard 
 on the x360 and if i were you i'd do the same, that's if you'll buy the game which i regret doing.
 
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: SSButterCup
Rating: 9.8
Date: May 21, 2006 5:40 am PT
Review:  First off I would like for people to stop pointing out the garphics it's ported and it's playable 
 with the PC and PS2 users which gives us the large commuinty we have if it were only other 360 
 users it would be a big empty world.
  and it wouldn't be fair to make the game better for the 360 to the other loyal fans who have been 
 playing for 4yrs also would like to point out .. shut up about the head set how would you be able 
 to understand anything if there were a ton of ppl talking at once while walking thur a town espically 
 past an Auction house
  would be very frustrating..
  Ok now that's out of the way my review
  I've never been into a game this deeply b4 I find myself 
 losing track of time with all the things there is to learn do and acomplish and I think the world 
 of Vana'diel is beautiful to look at despite what the garphic whores have to say.
  
  I haven't even been to a ton of places yet but I am always in shock when I walk into a new town 
 and seeing all the new ppl around me and the look of the town itself and all the other parts of 
 the world are amazing. It might be tough to acomplish some of the things in this game but when 
 you do it's that much more satisfying becuase it was tough .
  I love the music in the game but all the FF's music has always been good
  As far as battling 
 goes I think the battle system works well I love getting into a party that really gets my blood 
 pumpin.
  Well this was my first review i've ever written so I hope I did well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pspownertheone
Rating: 6.5
Date: May 18, 2006 3:02 pm PT
Review:  This move by square is a risky one, they tried to port over final fantasy xi to the 360, alright 
 at first i was excited and thought the graphics would be next gen (oblivion) and maybe that there 
 would be no 12.95 a month fee, i thought because you already pay for xbox live you should get the 
 game with no monthly fee, but thats another story. The game as you know takes far to much time 
 and space on your hd to download, and this game is just not made to be ported to the 360, t may 
 look a tiny bit better but still they really should of worked on the graphics. When you start you 
 have to pick a section were you want to be placed, like servers, then after some short scenes your 
 basically tossed in the world of Van'daile and must ask other npc what to do next. Once you get 
 a job things do however get somewhat exciting and there is a lot of content with this game, when 
 i went to gamestop to pick up this game i wasn't expecting it to not be some what entertaining, 
 enough to keep me playing for endless hours, if you really what to try it i suggest using the 30 
 day free trial then cancelling after it's over, but overall the only thing good about this game 
 is the shiny game box. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LouieV13
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 17, 2006 7:42 pm PT
Review:  (***NOTE: I had this on my comp for 2 days then it broke so I picked up the 360 version***)
  
  Gameplay: This game feels much better with a 360 controller than a Mouse and keyboard, the 
 only problem is its kinda difficult to get to some menu things tho. 9
  
  Graphics: Pretty good for a PC game but for a next gen consol... not really... but it is more stable 
 than the PC ver.. 8
  
  Sound: Like I said in my PC review, the music score is AWSOME!!! I literally downloaded some of 
 the tracks on my Ipod!! There that good! The special effects sound cool too! 10
  
  Value: You will pop this in YEARS from now Im telling you you gotta buy this!!! 10
  
  Tilt: 
 A little user unfriendly I gotta admit, not for everyone, only for those who have 3+ hours a day. 
 9
  
  Other notes: 5 HOURS to download!! WTF!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EXxile
Rating: 7.8
Date: May 18, 2006 10:49 am PT
Review:  When I bought this game I didn't think I would be paying a monthly fee due to it said Xbox Live 
 in the upper right and I did not see the additional monthly fees writing. I found out once I booted 
 up the game it asked for my credit card number. I tried to see if the store will take it back but 
 couldn't and Gamestop wouldnt buy it back. So there I am, stuck with it. Since it came with a 30 
 day free trial I decided to give it a go. 
  
  First of all, the game takes hours to download to take up all your space in your HD, and when you 
 start the game you are completely lost and confused as hell. Luckily I have a friend online that 
 bought the game before me and got me a world pass and kinda got me started. However, in the beginning 
 of the game you feel like the game just lags and is a complete waste of time. Sadly, if you continue 
 to think this and don't give it a chance like I almost did and never hit level 10, then you will 
 be missing out on some extremely addicting gameplay. Once you hit 10 you will start to join Linkshells (think 
 of it like a guild or faction) and begin to party with people and take on great challenges. You 
 will also be racking in the gil once you learn how to work the auction house and learn what sells 
 and what doesn't. If you buy this thinking you will level up all by yourself then think again. 
 The game kinda forces you to make teams by limiting you to a certain amount of XP you can earn 
 by fighting. Anything that gives you higher than 72 XP will kill you. But when you join teams you 
 can earn hundreds of XP just from one enemy. I'm a big fan of City of Heroes, and honestly I think 
 I like this game the same amount. Plus, you play not only with Xbox 360 owners, but also with the 
 people who own it for the PS2 as well as the PC (hence the reason for its monthly charges due to 
 its own server) .
  
  The reason I gave it this grade is several obvious reasons. First of all, the monthly fees. Yea, 
 12.50 or whatever every month is not that bad seeing that you may pay that much just for food, 
 but after awile it does add up especially seeing I'm already paying for my subscribtion to Xbox 
 Live. Second, the graphics are not next gen status whatsoever. They're not bad graphics by any 
 means, and they do look really clean in High Def, but strictly, they are not Next Gen. Third is 
 that the game takes far to long to get started with all the downloading and inputting registration. 
 Fourth is that there are no Achievement points at all. I mean seriously, they should give you at 
 least 100 point acheivement just for paying the damn monthly fee. But all in all the game is extremely 
 addicting once you get past the first parts of it. Square made a great MMORPG that has a few flaws 
 but still doesn't affect your addiction to the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CrazedColombian
Rating: 5.5
Date: May 17, 2006 8:43 am PT
Review:  Seriously this is the same game as the original on that came out in 2001 in japan. Why not add 
 anything Square? This seems like a test to see if 360 players will buy Squaresoft games..... If 
 they wanted to test us why not give us a good game like FF7, FF8 or FFX... All in one package for 
 like 60 bucks or something... no upgrades just the achievement system.. 
  
  I think people would be happy to have ff7 with an achievement system.... now u could really show 
 u leveld up to level 100 or that u beat emerald and ruby weapon.
  
  O yea did i mention after the $50 price tage u must pay $13 bucks a month !!!
  one more thing 
 THIS GAME ISNT FUN TO PLAY
  
  It has boring graphics, gameplay, sound and the people r unfriendly
  
  it takes forever to level 
 up. I played 22 hrs why am i still fighting BUNNIES !!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 319ni
Rating: 8.6
Date: May 14, 2006 10:13 am PT
Review:  i bought this game and the minute paid for it i started to get cold feet. was this my type of game, 
 is 8 quid a month on top of the price quite a bit to pay. i was very uncertain. 
  
  after waiting at least 3 hours to install , input codes , more instal i eventually got to start 
 the game
  
  hmmm. i wondered around windhurst learning a few of the more basics skills and found the people 
 milling around by and large v helpful and accomodating. ventureed into the badlads and killed rabits 
 for a while before trying fishing to make money. all in alll very pleaseant , im now lvl 20 kitted 
 up and riding chocobos in partys to complete missions. i dont really like this game, its more i 
 feel i have to play it. my biggest complaint for virtually every game i have ever played is its 
 to short and designed by gamers. this is the opposite to this. its designed by people who obviously 
 love gaming, its huge and with such variety its hard not to play constantly. i have now racked 
 up 4 days equivelant gametime and looking forward to many more.
  
  youl buy it and realise your life is taken over like some cheeky block op 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DoubledToKe420
Rating: 3.5
Date: May 13, 2006 8:58 pm PT
Review:  The Bad:
  This game has many flaws for very basic things that WoW brought us to love. First off.... navigating 
 is hard as ****. No mini map just a bunch of blips and N S E W. No general chat makes it hard to 
 communicate. The quest log is horrible and does not really descibe the quests at all. No icons 
 above the quest givers heads. The constant having to move among a list of pre-set tasks. Leveling 
 solo is VERY hard. Money is scarce for basic items and upgrades. You also have to have a fair amount 
 of cash to be able to put items up for auction. You have to run EVERYWHERE. The controls are sloppy 
 and there is no log of what quest giviers or other people have said. The big BAD..... monthly fees 
 on top of XBL fees.
  
  The good:
  Nice turn based fighting style. NIce animations and graphics. Good Final Fatasy music for FF lovers.
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: KxXxXxXxY
Rating: 6.1
Date: May 13, 2006 7:04 pm PT
Review:  This game was absolute garbage. I rented it thursday night and it was back by friday morning. The 
 load times are ridiculously long and I got so frustrated at the lack of action involved. Although 
 the music and sounds and characters were ok the lack of action and loss of intrest over shadowed 
 this. I wasn't happy with the way this game came out to be. I do not recommend this game AT ALL. 
 This is nothing like the final fantasies in the past because it felt so different on a console 
 like 360. They should just keep it on computer, its better that way. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zornth
Rating: 7
Date: May 11, 2006 6:24 pm PT
Review:  Lets start off with reasons you would like to go out and buy this game
  1. Good graphics- Just as good as the PC... Even though the PC version came out awhile back. Isnt 
 360 good... More like current PC mediocore.
  2. Compelling gameplay- May take awhile but the gameplay is well reviting when you get into it.. You 
 might giggle once or twice
  3. Consle mmorpg- Unlike the ps2 version... This game isnt competely worthless it actually does 
 a good job taking an mmorpg to the consle.. If your pc-less and want to try and check out a cosle 
 mmorpg this is a good chosie.
  4. Well all expanssion packs...
  Reasons this game will make you cry
  1. Siging up is a pain.... PAIN... Took at least 2 hours 
 for me to just sign up compare that to world of warcraft and you might well... CRY I dont even want 
 to explain it... You might even want to PAY somone to sign up for you which is sort of sad...
 
  2. STEEEP learing curve- Short and Simple this game takes a looooonnnng time to get used to and 
 to learn. 
  3. Chores- Game feels more like a "job" more then a game may get very tideus. 
  Well I could go more "in-depth" but I think this gets the point across 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Itekei
Rating: 1.9
Date: May 8, 2006 2:39 am PT
Review:  I wonder why Square does offend us with such a bad piece of code. Graphics that make me cover my 
 eyes and gameplay that makes me want to scream into a pillow. I know it's hard and tricky porting 
 a MMORPG so consoles but they failed in every point. Keyboard is strongly advices as long as you 
 don't want to get lost in all the menus. No headset support, boring fights, sterile landscape and 
 towns. Been playing MMORPGs since UO beta in 1995 and this ist one of the worst experiences so 
 far. No, thanks. I rather go play Square's SNES adventures then. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BWSTSW2K
Rating: 7
Date: May 8, 2006 8:42 pm PT
Review:  Final Fantasy XI inspires some mixed feelings, but having said that, this epic MMORPG will still 
 find ways to charm. It doesnt really matter that the visuals are hideously out-dated, or that 
 the gameplay is far more linear and transparent that Square Enix's other offline alternates, because 
 underneath its choppy exterior lies a reasonably fun and often addictive game you could potentially 
 spend a long hours with. 
  
  But at first you probably wont realize this. The reason? Well, first off there is a very long 
 and arduous installation and setup phase that is mandatory. Once you pop in the disc, you'll be 
 presented with an option to install the PlayOnline Viewer - Square Enix's glossy-looking hub from 
 which you launch the game and send messages from etc. This procedure takes probably fifteen minutes 
 or less, depending on your broadband internet connection. 
  
  Once that's done, you have to actually register your PlayOnline Viewer account. Now, this is where 
 using the Xbox 360 controller comes to an abrupt end, and where you really should think about investing 
 in a cheap USB Keyboard (me and my friend use silicon keyboards that sit very well on your lap) . 
 Filling in forms is a lot easier - and much more time-efficient - that sitting there manually inputting 
 information with the Xbox 360 controller. The keyboard will also be a life-saver of sorts when 
 in the game, but we'll get to that later.
  
  After you have filled in all your registration details, the installation of Final Fantasy XI itself 
 will begin, but not before you're treated to a ten minute clip that'll lay down some history for 
 the world of Vana'diel. This installation procedure takes about an hour to complete, so you can 
 just go ahead and leave the system alone, but remember not to remove the disc or accidentally power 
 down the machine. 
  
  The provided game guide is actually very good, and provides enough information for even beginners 
 to navigate their way though this whole process, so if ever you feel the need to consult it, go 
 right ahead, but mostly this entire undertaking is pretty simple, its just somewhat time-consuming. 
 
  
  Anyway, once you have done this, you're now faced with yet another screen to download all the updates, 
 after that, more forms to fill in, this time to register the actual game. Installing the updates 
 takes up to an hour and a half, the forms take probably five to ten minutes depending on your peripherals 
 of choice. This also includes the purchasing of your Content ID, so you can create your character (s) . 
 
  
  And that's it, you're now ready to play the game - three hours later, six gigabytes or so removed. 
 The character creation tool is basic, but adequate enough I suppose. You can choose between five 
 different races, from the human-like Hume race, to the cute but not-to-be-underestimated Tarutaru. 
 You now to have selected your job, character name and world (however this depends upon whether 
 you wish to join your friends on the same server, but for this you need to acquire something called 
 a 'World Pass', if you are not fussed then the game randomly assigns you to a server world) and 
 then finally you're allegiance to one or three locations in the world of Vana'diel. After that, 
 a simple little intro sequence begins and you're all done. 
  
  I would like to point out that there is a lack of a - and in my opinion much-needed - tutorial. 
 Still, the game isnt complex to control or grasp, it'll just take you an hour or two to be completely 
 au-fait with the ways of the world so to speak. In fact, once you have landed, you pretty much 
 have to make your way without a clue as to where you should go or what you need to be doing - good 
 job the friendly Final Fantasy XI community is on-hand to assist though. 
  
  Once you do muddle your way though those rough spots however, you will find a virtual world that 
 is lushly populated, ever changing and almost infinitely rewarding to behold. If you ever get stuck, 
 all you need do is ask, but admittedly it can be frustrating from time to time when you get lost 
 - and you most likely will a few dozen times. 
  
  The menu system in the game is adequate. You have access to maps, inventory, everyone listed in 
 your server that is currently playing the game (there are usually some five thousand or more playing 
 at the same time) and other such selections like your quest log and friends list. 
  
  Combat in the game ranges from easy to impossible, and your first time out on the battlefield will 
 be fraught with frustration and malice towards your foes. Still, you have to climb the ladder of 
 success from the bottom, right? My advice to you is to use the handy 'check' option when you select 
 your enemies, that way you can gauge how powerful they are and if you should risk attacking them. 
 Do be warned though that some enemies will come running after you if you get too near and anger 
 them in some way or other. 
  
  For an MMORPG the game holds up well in terms of lag and overall online server performance. I rarely 
 encountered any glitches either, which is a bonus. The game has been in release for around three 
 years, so that shouldnt really be surprising. What you will find handy during the game is the 
 ability to team up with other players in battle. This feature is called 'party' and you can add 
 people (via invitation) to your party. When you do this, their health status shows beneath yours 
 in the bottom right-hand corner of the screen. You can also track them on your map, too. 
  
  The graphics in the game are very dated, as previously mentioned, but it doesnt really matter 
 to be honest. The visuals contain enough Final Fantasy charm and whimsy that you'll soon fail to 
 notice their muddiness and painfully previous-generation look. Then again, maybe not. For some, 
 these graphics will probably get in the way, for others, they wont. It all depends on your ability 
 to see though all of that. Personally, it didnt bother me, though admittedly I winced somewhat 
 the first time I saw them and thanked the maker I still wasnt lumbered with my PS2 or original 
 Xbox. But that was just the snob in me.
  
  The pricing scheme for Final Fantasy XI isnt quite as bad as I thought it would be. First of all, 
 you get the first thirty days for free, after that I believe the fees are thus: $12.95 in the US 
 and 8.99 in the UK. The main question though is, "is it worth it?" and to be honest I would have 
 to say that it all depends on what kind of gamer you are. I think I'll get several months play 
 out of it and cancel my membership (which is very easy to do by the way) . I have heard of people 
 playing this game for years, but I am not so sure it has that kind of life in it anymore, but it 
 almost certainly has a good few months in it nonetheless. 
  
  Final Fantasy XI is a good game, but by no means is it a great one. If you are serious about online 
 gaming then you should look into this; Vana'diel is a big place, and its inhabitants are fun to 
 communicate with, and there are plenty of quests for you to undertake. Gamers who are not as serious 
 should consider a few things. First of all there is the huge setup procedure, the forms to fill 
 in, the monthly fee, and just the fact that online role-playing games might not be your thing. 
 Playing RPGs online is different from playing them offline. Those used to full-on spoken dialogue 
 will have to get used to reading again, and the combat system isnt quite as thorough either. Still, 
 this is a good game, no doubt about it, but it isnt for everyone. 
  
  Overall Score:
  
  7.0/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dajo128
Rating: 7
Date: May 4, 2006 7:31 am PT
Review:  I bought the game, b/c i have had many success stories w/ the final fantasy series. Now i must 
 say the gameplay is not a bad, but it is just not the game i thought it would be. The graphics 
 lack a little for the 360; it looks as if the games were direct ports from the PS2 themselves. 
 This game would be the best game ever if the graphics were tweaked a little and boosted to take 
 advantage of the dual processors in the 360. I think overall the game is not a bad buy if you're 
 looking for you fantasy fix, but i suggest you wait for Fable or go buy Oblivion. Those are games 
 that are worth your money. To the newcomers of the Fantasy series it is not a bad buy either to 
 the fact it is kind of a catch up on the series that you havent played before. Overall i say the 
 game is not a complete waiste of the my $50, and i will be playing online, b/c i am a major fan 
 of the series and think the next one will be the golden crown for square enix when it hits the 
 shelves.
  
  I think the game is a good game to all who want to dab into the series for the first time. If you 
 had owned this on the PS2, do not waiste your money unless you want to buy the same game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: oldpraetor
Rating: 8.6
Date: May 3, 2006 4:15 pm PT
Review:  Like all Final Fantasy games. This one you must decide what in the game motivates you. Rather than 
 just power leveling and getting exp. for muling.
  FF XI makes you work for everything you get. Nothing is free nor does it take 5 min. It is a journey 
 with many paths available. Play with people from all over the world on your server. If you have 
 1-2 nights a week Final Fantasy is not for you. If you are a hard core gamer that plays for hours 
 on end this is your road to greatness. I have played for 2 years now and the game is still consuming. 
 I love it and like anything sometimes I hate it, but eh. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: magicalnegro01
Rating: 6
Date: May 3, 2006 11:32 am PT
Review:  this game doesnt support questing at all and leveling is very tedius and not very much money. pick 
 up a game with a monthly subscription. they are way worth the money. it does keep up with the final 
 fantasy theme but thats its only redeming quality. the gameplay just isnt their. the controls also 
 dont feel good on the xbox 360 controller so you have to buy a keyboard to use with it to. as you 
 can probably tell not mujch is redeeming about this game SKIP IT. like i said before. pick up a 
 MMO that has a monthly subscription. they always turn out better city of hero's and WOW are really 
 good while this and guild wars do not stand up to them. if your just looking for a new 360 game 
 and you like RPG's pick mup Oblivion. really good game and i think everyone should own it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WarioWare
Rating: 7.7
Date: May 3, 2006 4:02 am PT
Review:  I originally picked up Final Fantasy XI for the PC in late 2004 with great skepticism, as it was 
 my first plunge into the MMORPG scene. The idea of spending hours upon hours fighting the same 
 things over and over again really didn't appeal to me in the beginning, however the social aspect 
 captivated me - many a friend of mine play this game on the same server as I do, and over the course 
 of my time in Vana'diel I have made many new ones.
  
  MMORPGs are always the toughest to review - with maybe the first few hours of the game being key 
 to determining a score. However in terms of FFXI's gameplay a few hours is not even scratching 
 the surface of what this game has to offer. FFXI's main fault is the pacing - this game is slow. 
 Very slow. To get an accomplished amount of things done in the game requires hours of playing at 
 a time and for the most part, teaming up with other players. The game pretty much forces you to 
 team up with other players in order to fight tougher monsters, leaving very little option for soloing. 
 Unless you're with an accomplished and competant party of players, or with a group of friends, 
 the early levels can be a chore more than a game - anyone who has been to the fabled Valkurm Dunes 
 can tell you that. However, later on solo opportunities are increased with a quest that allows 
 you to gain an NPC "fellowship" buddy to take along with you on your adventures. Also, being able 
 to change jobs at any time via your moogle allows a refreshing change of pace should one job begin 
 to lose it's appeal.
  
  It's other main fault is the learning curve. FFXI pretty much dumps your character into his starting 
 city (The fortress Kingdom of San D'Oria, the industrial Republic of Bastok, or the almost tribal 
 Federation of Windurst) with little or no idea of what you want to be doing. Unless you're willing 
 to ask questions (and find a person willing to answer) you're pretty much gonna be stuck, sword 
 in hand, with a clueless expression scrawled upon your face. Thankfully the population of FFXI 
 is for the most part extremely helpful with the proper attitude.
  
  However, once you're character gains in strength, the game slowly opens up to you in terms of it's 
 content, allowing you access to missions and quests that further the game's storyline - one just 
 as epic and immersive as you would expect from the Final Fantasy series. More often than not a 
 player will find themselves levelling up in order to further progress the story, which, upon after 
 level 50 or so, branches off and intertwines with the stories and contents of the expansion packs 
 - Rise of the Zilart and Chains of Promathia - which is when the game truly opens up. With the 
 release of the Treasures of Aht Uhrgan expansion more casual players have been catered for with 
 the addition of "Assault" which are small, 30 minute long missions which can be undertaken with 
 a small group of friends - however this is only open to Levels 50 and above - a major downside 
 to those who perhaps haven't the time to invest in levelling up that far.
  
  As a 360 port, the game disappoints. Playing the game on a 32" widescreen TV presents a pathetic 
 screen resolution, and horribly underpar graphics compared to those you can get on a standard PC 
 setup. This is essentially a lazy port of the PS2 version, and only viewable at it's fullest with 
 an HDTV setup. One the flip side however, on 360 there is much less of an issue with lag, particularly 
 in areas such as Dynamis and Jeuno, with the game running at a constant frame rate. The soundtrack 
 is what you'd expect from a Final Fantasy game, with a mixture of upbeat, emotional and very cool 
 battle music, well worth picking up from iTunes.
  
  As a game, FFXI is only worth the amount of time you're willing to spend with it. If you're a casual 
 gamer looking for something quick to dive into, then FFXI probably isn't the game for you. If you're 
 willing to stick it out, and want to invest the time into exploring all Vana'diel has to offer, 
 then this is probably one of the most immersive RPGs you can get your hands on. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CTAWATER
Rating: 8.3
Date: May 2, 2006 4:44 pm PT
Review:  Before you go flaming the game for horrible graphics and repetitive gameplay, just listen to what 
 I have to say about this game. I was very skeptical about this game coming out on the 360. When 
 the beta came out I did'nt play but my buddy did who would never ever pay a monthly fee to play 
 games. He played the beta straight through to the game's launch and didn't even touch his copy 
 of Oblivion when it hit the shelves. I was busy with Oblivion but I checked FFXI one day and low 
 and behold the game grows on you A LOT. Sure it's a sight for sore eyes after playing Fight Night 
 Round 3 or Oblivion but it's fun and that's what games are supposed to be about. Everything from 
 the leveling up, partying, helping others out and the auction house are great additions to a game 
 that you can't get anywhere else on the 360 at this time. Yeah, it's cool being able to beat the 
 crud out of people on live in FNR3 or snipe someone on GRAW but Final Fantasy has so much more. 
 The game is deep. I've played for 20 hours and have only gone to 2 different areas. I've played 
 WOW and Everquest and FFXI is a whole lot better in my opinion than both of those games. If your 
 bored and love the FF series or just playing a game that involves people in general, try this game 
 out. What's $50 bucks going to do if you don't like it. I know almost every single person that 
 plays games has paid full price for a game that completely sucks. You get a month for free and 
 I promise you that you'll play it for longer than that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drock2k1
Rating: 8
Date: May 2, 2006 7:19 am PT
Review:  Let me just say that if you play games because of how they look this is not for you, go play something 
 else. If you play games to kill time, immerse yourself and meet people, pick this up. Yes it has 
 a steep learning curve, yes it desperately needs a tutorial (seriously, would it have ben that 
 hard?) I understand that you will need to spend weeks killing bees or mushrooms and yes, we all 
 realize that these are the same graphics from 3 years ago. Who cares. Since this game can be so 
 difficult at times, tasks such as leveling up or sweet nectar unlocking an advanced job can be 
 soooo gratifying. If you don't like MMORPG's than please stay away from this and stop complaining 
 about it. This game is getting way to much bad run that it doesn't deserve. Not a 10 but certainly 
 not a 6!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mohandas_Gandhi
Rating: 6.8
Date: May 2, 2006 5:45 am PT
Review:  Maybe you don't agree with what I say but that's because it's your first time playing a square 
 game. I played this game at my friends house, and although it was fun there, I wouldn't recommend 
 buying it unless you really need to blow some cash. $12.50 a month just wouldn't be worth it. The 
 graphics are good I guess, nothing amazing. Gameplay was fairly good, but it's just not enough 
 for it to really make me want to buy it. The sound was good I guess. The value is bad. I enjoyed 
 my experience playing it, but it just isn't enough. This is what happens when you mak really pricey 
 games like this. All in all, just don't get this game for the Xbox 360 and you should be fine. 
 Also, they really need to work on some scripting parts for characters. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: warandpeace
Rating: 5.9
Date: May 1, 2006 3:27 pm PT
Review:  \MMORPGS are impossible games to review within the traditional critical framing question of: "How 
 much fun will I have here?"
  
  Let's chart your first lonesome week in Vana 'Diel. Your first few hours will be spent tentatively 
 stepping out of your adopted home city's gates (Bastok, San d'Oria, Windurst, or Jeuno) , before 
 battling a few low-level monsters in an effort to level up your chosen job as quickly as possible 
 while earning a little money to buy some armor. Battles are built on invisible dice rolls so there's 
 seemingly little skill involved at first - simply a battle of your stats versus his.
  
  Initially, you're weak and useless and you won't be able to travel very far without dying and subsequently 
 lying hopelessly on the floor crying out in text for a passing mage to revive you. If no one comes 
 to your aid it's a case of respawning back at town, losing a percentage of your experience and 
 starting the process over. 
  
  Attributing a numerical value to this world is about as ridiculous as giving New York four out 
 of ten because it needs a good wash. Sure, remove the other people and the resultant empty shell 
 is clearly showing it's age. There's potential for lonely nights of wandering aimless and lost, 
 grinding against the game's antiquated cogs and mechanisms for scant little reward: An aging face, 
 furrowed brow, grey hair and an awkward gait. Two out of ten.
  
  But overlay the living, breathing, bustling society that inhabits this land and mix in Final Fantasy's 
 still compelling mythologies and there's no denying the potential for life-affirming, memorable 
 and wonderful adventures filled with glimpses of real life truth, beauty and awe: A mature, life-chiselled 
 face full of the confidence of having lived and won and worked out its place in life. Ten out of 
 ten.
  
  The truth of the situation lies somewhere in between, because even hardened FF fans can't escape 
 the fact that this is little more than a solid, functional port of a four year old game. As potentially 
 enjoyable as it is (if you put the hours in) , and as much content as there is in this all-encompassing 
 release (if you really put the hours in) , things have moved on considerably in the MMO scene in 
 the intervening years. 360 owners deserve a lot more than a re-re-issue for their money.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: acummuta
Rating: 8.6
Date: May 1, 2006 1:05 pm PT
Review:  Final Fantasy XI: Online. Yes, its for the hardcore. Yes, its slow-paced. Yes, its not as graphically 
 impressive as other 360 games. But is it worth playing... YES!
  
  Given that I am the hard. The core. The hardcore... I can handle this game. In fact, despite having 
 GRAW, Oblivion, Battlefield 2 and Tomb Raider at my finger tips... countless hours are spent playing 
 Final Fantasy XI.
  
  Originally, on the beta, I held back a little. I wanted to test the waters, but wasn't sure how 
 much I could get into it. I got my character to a level 10 warrior. Decent, but you're not able 
 to do much yet. The fact that the retail version opens up a number of options to you should let 
 you know there's much more to anticipate here. First off it includes all three expansion packs, 
 one of which JUST came out and is selling for $30. So to get this game for $50 is a bargain (if 
 you exclude the monthly fee) .
  
  One thing to note, especially about the beta, was that you just got dropped into this world. No 
 manual, no real sense of what the heck I'm supposed to do. This is where the game fails, it is 
 -at times - too large of a sandbox. It is a MMORPG, and the game is supposed to live forever, but 
 goodness. When you don't know what does what, we have a problem.
  
  A couple saving graces about the final version is that 1) we have a manual now, which includes 
 some of the keyboard shortcuts. 2) We have veterans from the PS2 and PC who have been playing for 
 years, and for the most part are friendly and willing to share their knowledge with you. These 
 two factors add to bring a sense of "I know what to do now" that most probably didn't have before.
 
  
  You can go solo, or in a group - its your choice. You can hook up with a Linkshell (CLAN) and check 
 to see when your friends are on, and when their not. The reason this (Playonline) needs to be seperate 
 from XBOX LIVE is because you are online with PC and PS2 players. So to keep track of a friend 
 playing on a PS2, a gamertag they have NOT. So, the game itself keeps track of who is where, much 
 like Halo 2 did on the XBOX 1. Not only will it tell you if your friend is online or not, it will 
 tell you which region and what level they are.
  
  Are you a white mage looking to hook up with a warrior? You can do a search for someone in a number 
 of ways. By level, by job, or just see who's in your area. Once you know what you're doing it really 
 does improve the gaming experience.
  
  Outside of its dated graphics (though noticably better then the PS2 and in widescreen) and the 
 audio (which is ashamedly electronic sounding as oppossed to the amazing orchestrations I know 
 Square Enix can do) , there is a great game to be had. It will not fit everyone, but there are some 
 of us that I've run into (Japanese gamers included) who are playing on their 360 and share my heart.
 
  
  Let me add to my "hardcore" statement that I made earlier. Yes, it is for the hardcore, but the 
 game is so relaxing...
  
  It takes a hardcore audience to get into it, but the gameplay isn't fast and frantic. You want 
 that, play an FPS. This game rewards you in so many areas. It takes time to build a strong character, 
 but then you will be a force to be reconed with. From there you can adventure whereever you want. 
 Explore the new lands included in the expansion packs. Pick up a craft like woodworking and make 
 a living creating and selling items. Furnish you house.
  
  Hours of adventuring awaits...
  
  For those who have the patience this game is highly recommended. 
 Not recommended for the fast twitch gamer... who probably won't be reading this review ;)
  
  Okay, I have to add this to my review. After further going down the list and seeing absymal scores 
 like 1.0 and 3.2 I have to chime in. Yes, the installation process was long, but good lord! To 
 rate a game based off of the installation??? Never play PC games, that's all I have to say. You'll 
 hate your life. Beyond that, to rate a game that has, yes 2.5 hours of installation, but when you 
 compare that to the 250 hours you'll be playing the game... its pretty insignificant. For me, 80 
 hours later, I don't even think about the installation. I just log in and GO!
  
  Don't NOT buy the game based off of the installation! Install and move on!
  
  And like someone 
 else said earlier... this is an MMORPG, rate it as such. You might not like MMORPGs, but don't knock 
 the game because you don't like the genre. That's like saying you hate Motzart but what you really 
 don't like is classical music... which is just crazy anyways ;-) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zimoz
Rating: 8
Date: May 1, 2006 5:49 am PT
Review:  First of all the value of this game is 10 period: there's a zillion years of gameplay there, i've 
 played 35days of gametime and i was only lvl59 out of 75!
  yes there's monthly fees, but this is a MMORPG, they all cost monthly fees, they always will.
 
  
  The gameplay is slow yes, but really really deep. If you haven't been up to level15 you seriously 
 know 0.1% of the game so you just don't have the rights to review it.
  
  The graphics, they are bad, alright, you got the point. But hey, this is a MMORPG they are not 
 really important for the gameplay and the fun. You can't expect Oblivion, this is also a game that 
 runs on PS2... but your right, they could have done better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tyyrantt
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 30, 2006 8:22 pm PT
Review:  I am an absolute gaming addict, because that's who i am and what i do. I spend a lot of time reviewing 
 each game to make my review 100% accurate.
  I bought this game just after it came out and ive spent about... 200 hrs on final fantasy xi... 
 its true. I havent left my couch since... 14 hours ago and im playing the game as i type this. 
 FFXI is one of the best RGPs (not including the fact that its an MMORGP) ive ever played. Ive already 
 beat one hundred percent of Oblivion... all of it in 11 days i think. For those who love oblivion... 
 i would have to say FFXI wins by about... oh... 5 miles? 
  Now to the review... I played this game at first and was about to sell it. I actually played it 
 for 5 minutes... shut off my xbox 360 and said, "Hell, what a waste of $50 and then to spend $12.95 
 a month. I thought, "Wow, the graphics suck, the gameplay sucks, and... this sucks!" I then read 
 a reader review on Gamespot that said to play this game for about 8 hrs.... so i did. Then i said 
 to myself, "Maybe ill just keep this game for about a week to see if i still like it." An hour 
 later, "Well, maybe ill just keep this game till the free trial ends and then see if i like it." 
 one day later,"WOW, im keeping this game... omg this is so cool!" I soon forgot about the graphics 
 realizing they are not even that bad. Then i realized that the gameplay is extremely addicting. 
 And boy, joining a party of six is an absolute blast. 
  The graphics i would give a 7. They arent that bad and you soon forget, but they arent as good 
 as a 360 should be. The Gameplay i would have to give a 10. After you've spent 50 hrs and your 
 guy is starting to actually able to venture out a lot farther... you just cant belive how good 
 the gameplay is.
  Plus its an MMORGP (you do have to pay 12.95 a month) so you get to play with other people. And 
 all of the players so far are reaaaally cool. 
  The sound is good, not really anything you notice though. 
  All in all, this is honestly something 
 else. I soon forgot that i was playing a game because its like my life. Im like addicted to it 
 like when i was playing Diablo 2 a year ago.
  Enough review... must... play.... FINAL FANTASY XI !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ghangiskhan1
Rating: 6.7
Date: Apr 30, 2006 5:24 pm PT
Review:  Think of this, a three year old game now being ported to the Xbox 360. In fact, the PC version 
 is over 3 years old. The game was first ported to the PS2 in 2004. I originally got this game with 
 my Official Xbox Magazine as a free gift, the beta version until the real one came out. I got to 
 play it for 2 months. I've played this one, and it really has nopt changed hardly at all since 
 the other two versions.
  
  It is still a great MMORPG with a huge overworld and lots of characters but on the 360, people 
 just aren't used to it. FF games are meant for PS2 so not as many Xbox players play these games 
 and it just didn't feel at home either. Also, the graphics have changed very little. They look 
 improved but they are far from 360 material. The music is still awesome and the game for the most 
 part will keep you hooked on it unless you already have the PC or PS2 version. For $49.99 I cannot 
 recommend this. Do not buy it if you already have the PS2 or PC version either or you'll be making 
 a huge mistake!
  
  Overall, it is still a pretty fun game but it is very dated, not up to par with Xbox 360 material 
 and a total rip-off if you already own the PS2 or PC versions of the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: markt50
Rating: 3.6
Date: Apr 30, 2006 12:55 pm PT
Review:  This game is a hard one to review. The problem is that the installation experience and the front 
 end to the game are so bad that it puts you off straight away. I almost even gave up on this game 
 without ever getting to even play it. The main problem is the installation process. It literally 
 takes at least 3 hours and thats if your lucky and the registration servers are working. It took 
 me 2 full days before I could play. The other problem is that it practically installs an Operating 
 System on your 360, it's called the playonline system and is terrible, it includes all sorts rubbish 
 I wouldn''t want like an email system, but it basically means that you constantly have to click 
 and select things to get into the game. What should have been a simple user ID and password to 
 get into the game has been turned into a convoluted nightmare.
  
  It speaks volumes that I am talking about the installation and frontend problems rather than the 
 game, the fact is that these things are so bad they are hard to overlook, but once you get to the 
 game itself it is another dissapointment. Low resolution textures, poor graphics, difficult control 
 system. I cannot find one instance where it looks like the game developers have even tried to make 
 use of next gen technology. Surely they could have made the graphics textures a bit better for 
 this launch or made a bit more effort.
  
  Overall this is very disappointing, it's a shame because I think it proves the 360 has the ability 
 to do an MMO but this has such a bad attempt at it that it may very well put people off them. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: for_the_horde
Rating: 3.2
Date: Apr 30, 2006 11:19 am PT
Review:  I was really looking forward to this game because I thought SquareEnix would finally get it right 
 this time. However, it is only a slight upgrade to the PS2 version in my opinion. The controls 
 are just as clumsy, the graphics are marginally better, and the setup/install is a joke. Takes 
 hours to install, and you have to create so many accounts, passwords, content ids, usernames, blah, 
 blah, that it is very frustrating. And for an XBOX 360 game I found the graphics to be mediocre. 
 I have a pretty good Sony TV, but the text was hard for me to read.
  
  Bottom line: lazy port that made no effort to take advantage of the Xbox 360's power. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gameman_4
Rating: 4.2
Date: Apr 29, 2006 11:05 pm PT
Review:  great game and all but it just doesnt work on the 360.
  no voice so its manual typing with the stick, wich is not usefull in combat or when in a group.
 
  that means usb keyboard requered, and that's something thay dont say anywhere
  the monthly fee, 13 buck a month!!!! i already pay for my adsl, xbox live, and now they want us 
 to pay even more to play this after buying it for big bucks.
  then just upgrade the price or something like 80 bucks for the game and no monthly fees.
  
 
  the good: c'mon its final fantasy what more do you want?
  the bad: well a lower or no monthly fee maybe?
  the worst: the chat system just doesnt work.
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Subway1971
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 29, 2006 3:29 pm PT
Review:  FF XI is more than old style graphics and sound, these are just a means to an end. 
  
  The 360 install will remind you why you prefer consoles to PCs but its worth the effort. Learning 
 curve is steep but once you get past the initial few hours of play, find some mates and you will 
 be wondering where your spare time has disappeared to. 
  
  Yes I have seen better looking games but if you want to game with a large community of like minded 
 players (across 3 platforms) this is the one for you. 
  
  Had some great laughs already and I for one will keep playing.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: utgamerpsp
Rating: 4
Date: Apr 29, 2006 3:21 pm PT
Review:  The visuals are just so poor i cant get over it. Well its basically a never ending story. thats 
 why im not into this game. i was expecting more graphics for the Xbox360 because its one of the 
 Systems of the age of Revolusion. I think Final Fantasy games should stay off the xbox system.
 
  it should be only for the Sony PlayStation.
  
  Nothing special, same old game play feel. Yet less enjoyable than other games. The NPCs have no 
 feel to them, and the towns just seem big and bland. The quests are nothing special either. I can 
 see right away that this game is going to be a big waste. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rmele
Rating: 7.8
Date: Apr 29, 2006 10:50 am PT
Review:  I have been playing computer and video games for over 25 years but have never played anything like 
 Final Fantasy XI on the 360. I played the Beta version and looked forward to buying the retail 
 version when it came out. The Beta had taken about 3 hours to install and start the game and I 
 knew that the retail would fix that issue. Unfortunately that was not the case. The retail version 
 took every bit of 3 house to install. I was able to transfer my Beta character to the retail version 
 which was a plus.
  
  For me the game is a blast to play. My son lives in North Carolina and plays FFXI as a red mage. 
 I play as a warrior and using the headset, he and I can chat while we play the game. That is awesome 
 and part of what makes the game so much fun for me. If you can find someone else who has a 360 
 and wants to play the game you can chat over the headset while you play and communicate a lot better 
 than using the keyboard.
  
  The graphics are not great and there are frame-rate issues but I'm finding myself enjoying the 
 game. I enjoy the exploration, the combat, and the auction house. The auction house is almost a 
 game in itself. Anything I find while exploring or after combat I take to the auction house and 
 see how much money other players are willing to pay for it. I think I will be playing this game 
 for a long time even though I'm not thrilled with paying a fee each month to play.
  
  If you had the opportunity to play the 360 Beta and enjoyed the game the retail version is more 
 of the same. Also, the first 30 days of the retail version are free. I would rate this game at 
 8.0 out of 10 due to the ability to play with my son online. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ghog69
Rating: 6.5
Date: Apr 29, 2006 7:02 am PT
Review:  Like the install, the game's controls are worse on the 360 making it too much work to be able to 
 play. 
  
  Little guidance from the game, although the community is great and most will gladly help out those 
 who have questions.
  
  Truly feels dated and I am trying to look past just the graphics. 
  
  Very deep game requiring 
 a long-term investment with your time. Good for the hardcore, but much less so for the casual. 
 
  
  There are better MMOs out there depending on what type of player you are and how short your attention 
 span is. FFXI moves at a slow pace. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dragon62586
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 29, 2006 12:23 am PT
Review:  Ok wow. 6.0 is probably the most inaccurate score Ive ever seen Gamespot rate a good game. "It 
 doesn't feel right...." It feels exactly the same. I don't know what copy Gamespot had when they 
 reviewed this game, but it is not a damn 6.0. I personally feel that gamespot despises Final Fantasy 
 XI period. So I personally feel that consulting to this site for FFXI reviews is a terrible idea. 
 Maybe gamespot doesn't like the fact that Square-Enix was on the Xbox 360. Perhaps they forgot 
 it's a DIRECT PORT of PS2 and PC. Obviously it wont have Xbox 360 graphics. They gave it a less 
 score than PS2 and PC and it's the EXACT same game. Now I understand if it was a little bit different 
 score from the others like 7.5 or 7.9 or whatever, but to give this game a 6.0 when it's the exact 
 same damn game, is just ridiculous. And I do not agree with them in the slightest. But "to each 
 their own", I guess. They are entitled to their own opinions even if they are contradicting themselves, 
 when reviewing the PS2/PC version compared to Xbox 360 version. But whatever........
  
  Anyway, this game is actually pretty good. I've been playing this on PS2 originally. It "feels" 
 just like the PS2 version with PC resolution. Obviously graphically, don't expect anything outstanding. 
 It is good though. It is tolerable. Gamespot says, "Preposterously long installation period... 
 Ok apparently their 360 is half dead or something because that didnt take long at all. If 1hr, 
 and 30 min is too long, then wow you guys are all impatient. "Virtually nothing done to enhance 
 the experience for the Xbox 360." Can you define "direct port" to me please? What would you have 
 liked? Voice chat? OK sure let's do that, except that everyone in FFXI would prefer Xbox 360 players 
 over PS2 owners. I guess that's ok with you all. "Not a single unlockable achievement." OMG IT'S 
 THE END OF THE WORLD!!!!!!!!! :sarcasm: There are no achievements because theres probably no way 
 for the POL server to send achievements to the Xbox 360 server. Ever think about that? I was very 
 disappointed in Gamespot after this review. 
  
  This game offers a lot for new and hardcore gamers alike. User-friendly controls are a plus also. 
 There are 18 classes in this game. Warrior, Monk, Thief, White Mage, Black Mage, Red Mage, Dark 
 Knight, Paladin, Ranger, Ninja, Samurai, Bard, Dragoon, Beastmaster, Summoner, Blue Mage, Corsair 
 and Puppetmaster. Sound quality in this game is no 7 as Gamespot rated it, they gave the PC version 
 an 8 in sound, and the Xbox 360 version sound is Dolby 5.1, not to mention you can add custom soundtracks. 
 The music in this game is very good, sound effects are decent. Only bad thing, theres no voice-overs. 
 This game is displayed in 720p which is actually very good looking. Graphics are the same which 
 baffles me on how GS gave graphics an 8 on PC, when its exactly the same. This game is one of 
 the best MMO's out now. It won awards and I think best MMO of 2004 if I'm not mistaken.
  
  In this game you can also chose any job in the game. For instance say you leveled Warrior to 15 
 then you decided you wanted to level up something else, you can without the troubles of restarting 
 your character. Technically you can cap out every job in the game if desired. Which I personally 
 feel is very fun. All the jobs feels very different yet the same in some aspects. When you create 
 a character you have a choice of 5 races: Hume, Elvaan, Galka, Tarutaru and Mithra. And each of 
 them plays differently. For example, Elvaan's exceed in Strength. They are the strongest class 
 in the game. But their accuracy isnt all that great, whereas Mithras have average STR but perfect 
 DEX (accuracy) . Tarutaru's are the masters of Magic. They have the highest Intelligence therefore 
 causing a lot more damage when using harmful spells. Galkas are monstrous beasts who can take one 
 hell of a beating. And a combination of a race and a class can be some of the best. The game runs 
 a lot smoother than the PS2 version; the draw distance is a little further than the others as well. 
 Loading times are much faster.
  
  The game is definitely team oriented. You can solo at times but you will level up very slow. Weapons 
 skills are awesome in this game. Weapon skills are the true damage. There are thousands of different 
 weapons in the game. Whether you want to be a mage or melee job, you'll have a lot of fun. Basically 
 a party is built as so: 3 Mages, 2 Melees and 1 Tank. White Mage, Black Mage, Red Mage/Bard are 
 almost a must have in a party. Those jobs are desired the most from party leaders. Without them 
 party sometimes tends to go slow. Unless you have kick-ass backups. Service for this is $12.95/mon. 
 (Which is the exact same for the rest of them GS, so why didn't you complain on those versions 
 then?) And if you're wondering if you have to pay for Xbox Live and Playonline, yes you do. But 
 this game also is playable on Xbox Live Silver membership, which is free. So again, that completely 
 negates Gamespot's complaint.
  
  To be honest people tend to not like this game because of the auto-attack system. A lot of people 
 I talk to dont like that part of the game, yet they still enjoy it. So try it anyways. This game 
 is extremely fun and I highly recommend buying this game if you've never played a MMO game before. 
 This is a game to get your feet wet in the genre. Built for everyone whos a fan of the series 
 or MMORPG's. Definitely try this out. Read reviews before purchasing this game, except GameSpot's 
 review. Read the reviews of other gamers who've played this game. They have mixed reviews but sometimes 
 pretty accurate. Try this game you get a free 30 day trial. $49.99 is actually not that bad of 
 a price, when you get all 3 expansions. So it's not bad at all. Get this game I personally think 
 you'll like it.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jtgammon
Rating: 5
Date: Apr 28, 2006 8:25 pm PT
Review:  I was really looking forward to this game because I thought SquareEnix would finally get it right 
 this time. However, it is only a slight upgrade to the PS2 version in my opinion. The controls 
 are just as clumsy, the graphics are marginally better, and the setup/install is a joke. Takes 
 hours to install, and you have to create so many accounts, passwords, content ids, usernames, blah, 
 blah, that it is very frustrating. And for an XBOX 360 game I found the graphics to be mediocre. 
 I have a pretty good Sony XBR800 720p HDTV, but the text was hard for me to read.
  
  Bottom line: lazy port that made no effort to take advantage of Xbox 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Farreg
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 28, 2006 6:46 pm PT
Review:  As much as I was looking forward to this game, they should've anticipated that there would be a 
 person logging on for every copy of the game on their worlwide release.
  
  I spent 1-3hrs over a week trying to create a profile in the online viewer only to find that there 
 were currently too many people trying to create profiles. Noone I know was even able to create 
 a profile, this is what I consider to be a huge oversight by people trying promote their game, 
 to anyone looking to play this, perhaps wait until it's a classic or don't bother.
  
  I returned it with a bad taste in my mouth and without even getting to see the game play.
  
 
  The abyssmal score is due to the fact that I couldn't possibly rate a game which doesn't allow 
 you to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Funny_bunch71
Rating: 8.4
Date: Apr 28, 2006 4:43 pm PT
Review:  The game has been on the market for more then a couple years but I did not expect any improvement 
 with it being switched over systems as gamespot shouldnt have either because this game was a simple 
 port to another system. Ff11 online is a great mmo to start with one of witch I have been playing 
 for 2 years even though most people who play it will hate it at first as I did if you sit down 
 and actually play it for more then 1 hour I am sure you will become completely addicted to it and 
 wont be able to stop playing with the many character jobs you can play as the hundreds of weapons 
 and outfits to show off the unique Artifact armors you can collect for your jobs there is just 
 so much to do in the game.
  
  I give the Value a 10 also because the pc version sells each expansion excluding rise of zilart 
 seperatly and those can cost up to and over 40$ each so the origional game 60$ + chains or promethia 
 40+$ and the new expansion treasures of aht urhgan 40+$ that can lead of to 120$ for the entire 
 game and with the 360 version targeted at 50$ for the whole lot I see this as a great value. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: finalfantasy77
Rating: 9.6
Date: Sep 8, 2006 3:06 pm PT
Review:  FFXI is a MMORPG and let me just say that it is the best RPG game ever!!! FFXI is a fast paced 
 action, thrilling, enchanting roleplaying game. But like all games it's not perfect. The worst thing 
 about it is the Playonline system that you have to install and trust me it is a pain the neck, 
 but anyways back to the good stuff. My two favourtie things about the game is the character creation 
 setup and the battle system. The character creation trial is highly detailed and very presiced. 
 Choose between 5 different races ( Hume, Elvaan, Tarutaru, Galka, and Mithra) that are each based 
 on attributes. Hume is a moderate race and is pretty good in everthing. Elvaan excel in swordsmanship 
 and they are pretty good at archery - but dont count on thier magical abilities (plus they are pretty 
 slow) . Tarutaru are very skillful mages - but are really weak when it comes to physical damage. 
 Galka are hulking animals that are known for thier physical strength - but they have the worst 
 agility. And Mithra are excellent thieves and very swift, plus they make awesome rangers - but 
 they aren't that magical and are kind of in the middle when your talking about strength. Then there 
 are the jobs. Warrior - swordsmanship, monk - brute strength, thief - superior agility, white mage 
 - healing spells, black mage - offensive spells, and red mage - moderate at white and black magic 
 as well as the arts of the sword. Then by completing certain quests or missions you can access 
 these jobs. Paladin - closecombat and some white magic, bard - music as their weapon, dark night 
 - closecombat and some black magic, beastmaster - fight with animals that you control, ranger - 
 very skillful with the bow and arrow and boomerangs, summoner - summon creatures to aid you in 
 battle, samurai - very deadly in closecombat, ninja - a mix between a warrior and a thief, dragoon 
 - bring a dragon to fight with you, puppetmaster - flexible fistfighters and can fight with a customizable 
 puppet known as an "automaton", corsair - a pirate with a demolishing gun, and blue mage - able 
 to cast spells learned from monsters. If you're thinking of getting a fast paced game with awesome 
 battle tactics then definetly get you're hands on a copy of FinalFantasyXI for the xbox360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GTAG-daver999
Rating: 2.1
Date: Apr 27, 2006 12:55 pm PT
Review:  This game sucks. First you have to buy this game for a complete rip off price and it isn't even 
 a next gen game and on top of that $12.50 a month it's enough to make you ill and cut your wrists 
 for wasting so much money. I bought the xbox 360 for $400 for the reason that it is sup post to 
 be next gen graphics and next gen online gaming not slow glitchy online gaming which makes game 
 play sickening and graphics compared to oblivion hard to even look at. The only kind of person 
 I can think of that would buy this game would be a crazed final fantasy die hard fan and final 
 fantasy fans all have play station 1s and 2s where it originally came from and won't bother with 
 buying a 360 and get a ps3. About 99.9% of people with this game and have played final fantasy 
 7 for the PS1 will tell you final fantasy 7 is a quad billion times better and that came out 10 
 years ago for god sake. Please don't buy this game it is a con and will increase the amount of 
 people committing suicide by 52.7% for wasting there money 
::::::

::::::
UserName: e5mikey
Rating: 4.5
Date: Apr 27, 2006 10:47 am PT
Review:  This will be short and sweet...
  
  First off this game is outdated, and this is aparent from the time you start to create your character. 
 FFXI does not show off even a fraction of the 360s power and its a shame. I liked FFXI but since 
 mainly this version is just slightly better graphics and not much else there really is no reason 
 for anyone to buy this game unless they are a die hard FF fan and have not played this before. 
 This lacks the long term pvp and instance value of games such as wow. IF you havent played this 
 game I would say give it a try, but then it might make you never want to play another MMO... EVER. 
 Basically the reason this game was ported to the 360 was to get a little more money, and mainly 
 so MS could claim they were getting Final Fantasy games before the 360s release in an attempt to 
 sway RPG fans to buy a 360. Bottom line this game is not worth your money.
  
  PROS:
  
  Its the world of Final Fantasy online
  Fun for a while and some neat characters
  Nice spell 
 animations
  
  CONS:
  
  Not much end game content in this MMO
  Nothing new, same old game
  Not worth next gen price
  Still feels sloppy on a controller, keyboards 
 are a must for MMO's
  Cheap stunt so MS could claim Final Fantasy was coming on the 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spidermanc2k
Rating: 8.1
Date: Apr 27, 2006 9:52 am PT
Review:  I told myself that I wouldn't play it. I didn't have a high end PC, and I didn't want to pay for 
 the PS2 hard drive. Even now with the game being on the 360, I still tossed and turned on the idea 
 of playing the game. Finally, I gave in, and decided to take the plunge. After spending a bit of 
 time with the game, I can say that I'm glad I did.
  
  If you're new to the genre of MMORPGs, then, like me, you have no idea what you are getting into 
 when you first start your time with FF XI. Every report you have previously heard is true. The 
 time it takes from start up to actual gameplay is extremely long. Once you pop the game in, you're 
 treated to a nice opening cinema. OK, cool. Now comes the instalation, registration, and updating. 
 All of this takes a long time ( 2-4 hours depending on your connection) and could put off some 
 people. Also, the extra fees involved with a game of this type ( paying for a content ID and a 
 near 13 bucks monthly fee to play in this case) may turn would be gamers away that would feel put 
 off by having to pay more money on top of XBox Live Gold membership (although you can play with 
 a silver membership) . All of this can be a little hard to swallow at first, but once you get past 
 that, there is an extremely large, fun, and time consuming game to be played.
  
  THE GOOD: Its a fun MMORPG with a Final Fantasy twist. The music is great, and what you would expect 
 from a FF game. This game was meant to be played with friends, you will make many along the way 
 if you play well and play nice. There is a lot of customization to be found in this game with weapons, 
 armour, and what not. Plus, there are a lot of Jobs to choose from, and with the ability to change 
 jobs whenever you want, you could spend months and months trying to level up each one. Even though 
 there are monthly fees involved, 360 owners are actually getting a deal. You get the original FFXI 
 plus the three expansions (includiing the newest one which retails on its own for 30 bucks) for 
 the price of a full-priced Current gen game. 
  
  THE BAD: Its clear that this is a port of a PS2 game, as the graphics here are seriously dated. 
 Some things have been touched up here and there, but this is by no means next gen, so don't be 
 shocked once you see it. Monthly fees will turn most people away that are on the fence about this 
 game. The extremely large world can be overwhelming when first starting out, and getting used to 
 the controls can take some time.
  
  FINAL THOUGHT: If monthly fees and non-next gen graphics don't turn you off, then give FFXI Online 
 a try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skullleader007
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 27, 2006 7:27 am PT
Review:  This game like many has it's ups and downs. Unfortunately the downs will cost you real money out 
 of your wallet. First the good stuff there are endless ways to play. Several different jobs and 
 spells and all the things that make up a good Final Fantasy game. The graphix could be a little 
 better but i guess if there are hundreds of players on the server then thats ok for low count models. 
 The bad side is why should you have to pay more for this game to play. Yes I understand that it 
 is a MMORPG...... so what. Xbox live has several servers and should get more to compensate for other 
 MMORPG's not just one game. That to me sounds like a rip off. Thats like saying every new first 
 person shooter should have there own servers and we should pay for that to. Xbox live does maintenance 
 and upgrades to all games. Look at it this way the people who do pay extra for gold membership's 
 have to pay more to play one game, then what is the point of gold. It is a good game, even better 
 with friends and extra content but the fee is what is gonna kill the xbox community. And not to 
 mention the other things like certain abilities that take 2 real hours to use again and lossing 
 a lot of exp when you die which can cause you to level down. Just watch someone else play it before 
 you buy it and then determine if that is what you want 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Joelias
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 26, 2006 7:49 pm PT
Review:  People say that This MMO Suck But Dont No at all This is FFXI ALL IN ONE DVD For XBox360 I play 
 This game for a 1 year & it Fun azz game I love This Game Players or Nice on this game & it FFXI 
 all This That it a PS2/PC Game you guys having notic it a Cross-Plateform Game you Can Play PS2 
 PC XBox360 O yea FFXI ALL IN ONE For XBox360 Go up to 720p in HDTV This game is net Bad at all 
 it a Bad azz MMO & it get a 9-6 Fun People this is Fun win you play my job is Samurai51/Warrior25 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: venator117
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 25, 2006 11:39 am PT
Review:  To start your quest in the beta, you must install the game onto your Xbox 360 console (needless 
 to say you will need a hard drive in order to play this game, sorry Core owners) . Its a pretty 
 meaty install, taking roughly an hour and weighing in at a good 5 Gigs, which doesnt seem like 
 a lot, but its a hefty chunk when your hard drive is only 20 Gigs. Once that is finished, youll 
 need to set up a PlayOnline account through Square-Enixs Web site and then finally update the 
 game in order to get into Vanadiel. All things considered, itll be a good couple of hours before 
 youll be able to get the game off of the ground.
  
  This version will be instantly familiar territory to anyone whos played FFXI before. The interface 
 is identical to the PC and PS2 versions, meaning that you can use a controller to move your character 
 and interact, or use other accessories. If you are a hardcore PC MMO gamer and balk at the thought 
 of a console MMO, fret not, as you can plug in your USB keyboard and mouse in order to play the 
 game. In fact, a keyboard comes highly recommended since the game will not support the XBox Live 
 headset, meaning that if you plan on communicating with other players (a necessity in this game) 
 a USB keyboard is the only game in town.
  
  One of the most impressive aspects of Final Fantasy XI has been the ability for PS2 players to 
 play with PC gamers around the world. The 360 version will support this as well, allowing gamers 
 from three different platforms to play together in a persistent universe.
  
  In terms of aesthetics, Final Fantasy XI is showing its age, a fair thing to say considering that 
 its approaching the four-year mark, and was originally conceived on the PS2. While the game still 
 takes advantages of the perks associated with the XBox 360, like 720p High-Definition and Dolby 
 Digital 5.1 surround sound, its still not what the XBox 360 is fully capable of. However, in terms 
 of design, the game is very endearing, with beautifully designed enemies and interesting characters 
 that have a look that is wholly unique to the Final Fantasy series.
  
  While it may be an older game, Final Fantasy XI has showcased its staying power for a variety of 
 different reasons. For starters, well, its Final Fantasy, but it also provides players with a 
 rich and deep experience, keeping them engaged with new content and tons of features as you progress 
 through the game. All things considered, Final Fantasy XI is a great choice to start out the newly 
 founded relationship between Square-Enix and Microsoft, as well as a very capable MMORPG for the 
 online-focused XBox 360 console.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: hardkoredl22
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 25, 2006 9:35 am PT
Review:  I have been a Final Fantasy fan since FFVII. (Who isn't) I was very upset to see that this game 
 was only online until I put a little time aside and tried it. Since the second I picked up the 
 controller, there is not a game on this eatrth that i would rather be playing. 
  
  The graphics and sound are just ok but the gameplay and depth to the game are amazing. The worlds 
 are absolutly massive and I finally realize that games are nothing without other human players 
 playing with you. 
  
  This is the ultimate game for any RPG player. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ArmoJan
Rating: 6.8
Date: Apr 23, 2006 6:31 pm PT
Review:  This game will require you to commit to at least 4-5 hours of gameplay minimum a day in order to 
 get your money's worth out of this title (along with it's monthly fee) . Also expect a VERY long 
 learning curve for this game as the manual only gives you 25% of the information you need to get 
 by. This game also requires only one style of RPG game play which is party quest only. If you attempt 
 to solo this game... Don't even bother. If you have a job, a girlfriend, wife, girlfriend on the 
 side, dependents, or a busy lifestyle in general... Don't even bother. 
  
  If you are a hardcore FFXI fan and own an Xbox 360, This is the game for you. For the time being, 
 this is the only MMORPG for the 360 to date. Even though this game is a MMORPG don't be fooled.. 
 this game is far different from WoW and is MUCH more involved and demanding. 
  
  As for me, I plan on cancelling my content ID once my 30 day trial is up... There is NO WAY I can 
 commit to a game such as this. This is definitely NOT for the casual gamer... No ifs ands or buts.
 
  
  As for accurate reviews for this game... It all depends on the reviewer's lifestyle so take the 
 reviews as a grain of salt. However, I will tell you this... This game is four years old so don't 
 expect to see "next gen" graphics. Take this game at face value for 2002 standards.
  
  Expect this game to take up to 3-4 hours to be installed, updated, and for you to activate your 
 acount information. So if you buy this game on a Saturday night like I did, don't expect to play 
 the game until the next day. Also keep in mind that this game will take up half of your 360's HDD 
 space. Also keep in mind that although this game only requires XBL silver, at $12.95 a month service 
 fee needs to be paid to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Black_Man85
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 23, 2006 12:14 pm PT
Review:  This is my first MMORPG, so i don't know much about them, and personally i find this very fun. 
 I'll count out the monthly fees while reviewing this. Which most of the people who reviewed this 
 are whining about, personally even I think it is messed up. But hey, don't review the service, 
 review the game.
  
  Graphics: First the World, it is HUGE, (Think bigger than Oblivion) each area you go into it is 
 beautiful. The only problem I have with this is if i choose to run from a goblin .... or a bunny 
 I have to run a long, long way to get away.
  
  Gameplay: As I have said this game is not for every, If you like Final Fantasy gameplay (you know 
 attack, magic, items, summon) you will probably enjoy this just as much as I do. Also for the couple 
 of hours i have been playing I have yet to meet a crude person, just about everybody is willing 
 to help, not like all the racist people on Halo 2 (you all know what im talking about) . Plus this 
 game is always updating so you get yours moneys worth. The only problem i have with this is, like 
 i stated B4 RUNNING from monsters they wont leave you alone unless they get preoccupied with someone 
 else...........
  
 
  stupid bunny.
  
  Music: Its Final Fantasy music, you either like them all, except 9, or hate them all, except 9. 
 Personally I like it.
  
  Overall, i like to state again THIS GAME IS NOT FOR EVERYBODY. I dont know what some people would 
 call a "TRUE" MMORPG, but i dont care, I only bought the game just for the heck of it and im glad 
 i used my game credit to get it.. If you like Final Fantasy and MMORPGs you will most likely enjoy 
 this one............. Even if S-E is ripping you off with the monthly fees. (sigh) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Snipe_You_Out
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 23, 2006 7:46 am PT
Review:  Ok This is a good game it just wasnt for me it was just to differrent from the other final fantasies. 
 When I play this game It feals like im playing a real time game. The controls are very hard to 
 learn, You will find that you are going to be opening the text keyboard and hard to learn menus. 
 This game is weak at points but it also has a lot of good points like the Music, it is awsome quality 
 and everything just like all FF games I loved it. The graphics are mediocer and could have been 
 a little better. The gameplay is good as well just hard to learn, but once you learn it you can 
 breeze thro it all. THIS IS A GOOD GAME JUST NOT FOR ME. so take a chance and rent it before you 
 buy it because you might be like me and not like the messed up menus and all that. another thing 
 is that in takes like 7hours to install download and everything its annoying but just rent it try 
 it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ax_prime_basic
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 23, 2006 5:25 am PT
Review:  Final Fantasy XI on the xbox 360 is a real anomaly... you have to wonder "why" exactly Microsoft 
 and Squenix decided to release the game for the new console, as Final Fantasy XI is a game that 
 was released many years ago for the aging ps2. While Final Fantasy XI is a three year old game 
 (four in Japan) , it actually holds up pretty well, and with a few slight but imporant advantages 
 for the xbox 360 version, such as dramatically increased resolution and the ability to gerry rig 
 voice chat into the game, not to mention the brand new Treasures of Aht Urhgan expansion, you've 
 got a game that still has something to offer veterans who want the sharper graphics and a LOT to 
 offer new players from the xbox community.
  
  Overall, the gameplay isn't terribly exciting from the get go. It's definitely slow paced like 
 most mmo's (people spoiled on WoW need not apply here for quick-fix gaming, you won't find it) , 
 as you will find yourself running all over huuge fields and mountains, and leveling up is a generally 
 slow process once you start passing level 10. If you're diligent, you can hit level 5 within roughly 
 an hour, but don't expect that trend to continue. My game clock hit 300 hours before I was able 
 to reach level 30 with my paladin. Be prepared to put in a lot of time with this game, or do yourself 
 a favor and avoid it. Once you are around level 10, the combat becomes very group-oriented and 
 you'll be taking on tougher foes, but it actually makes the battles more engaging and intense, 
 especially when your party starts pulling "very tough" or "incredibly tough" monsters. It all peaks 
 when you form an 18 person alliance, and go to take on devastatingly powerful boss characters. 
 This is a group-focused game, and soloing is a pretty weak option, unless you're just out to collect 
 crystals, gil, and other materials for crafting or selling.
  
  Thankfully, FF XI has a very rich job system that encourages you to mess around and experiment 
 with different combinations. You'll start out as one of six main jobs, and you can switch between 
 them at your mog house without any penalty whatsoever, and the game rewards you for doing so. At 
 level 18, you are able to get a "sub job", which is basically similar to dual classing. You have 
 your main job but your equipped sub job will be capped to operate at half the level of your main 
 job. So if you have a character with level 20 warrior and level 14 white mage, and you select warrior 
 for your main job and white mage for your sub, you'd be a level 20 warrior/10 white mage. If you 
 were to then to switch your main job to white mage and warrior for your sub job, you'd be a level 
 14 white mage/7 warrior. It's very intuitive and easy to understand in the game, and each combination 
 has pros and cons. After that, once you reach level 30, you can undertake quests to take on all 
 new jobs like paladin, dark knight, ninja, dragoon etc. The Treasures of Aht Urhgan expansion adds 
 three new jobs, the puppet master, blue mage, and corsair. These additions add even more options 
 for playing a fun and useful character, and are great rewards to work toward.
  
  The game has skill systems in place too, for a seemingly ridiculous number of things. There's crafting, 
 fishing, mining, and tons of weapon skills. The good news is that these skills are upgraded simply 
 by using them. Want to become a better fisherman? Go out and fish. Want to be skilled in using 
 polearms? Buy a spear and head out into battle. It's super intuitive and makes the game user-friendly. 
 
  
  While the skill system might be user-friendly, the way you set up and install Final Fantasy XI 
 is not. At all. You'll have to put the disc in, install PlayOnline, install FF XI, register your 
 personal information, register PlayOnline, FF XI, Rise of the Zilart, Chains of Promathia, and 
 Treasures of Aht Urhgan SEPARATELY, and then download the patches before you play. This process 
 is incredibly clumsy and convoluted, and takes over 3 hours to complete. People with slower connections 
 could find themselves downloading for quite some time when first starting FF XI, but since xbox 
 Live is broadband only this isn't much of an issue. Suffice it to say FF XI will make a poor first 
 impression when installing the game, despite the pleasant music playing in the background.
  
  The graphics in Final Fantasy XI could've used a facelift. The graphics are much sharper than 
 the ps2, and are on par with a high end pc, but we're still dealing with the same blurry texturing 
 that the previous versions had. These definitely aren't next gen graphics we're dealing with. On 
 the plus side, the overall design of the game is attractive, and the animation is very good. Characters 
 and enemies are interesting and stylish, and the overall art style is very Final Fantasy. The colors 
 are fairly muted for most of the time, which may turn off some players, especially those used to 
 WoW's hyper colored world, but there is decent variety to all of the game's various areas, and 
 you'll find yourself traveling to forests, swamps, deserts, mines, and mountains. I don't know 
 if it was technically possible to give the game new textures and lighting, but looking at it now, 
 the game could have probably used it. It's not bad, and actually compared to mmo's it's actually 
 totally on par with most others... but it's a waste of the 360's power.
  
  The sound fares much better though. The music is catchy and fitting, and retains the elements of 
 most Final Fantasy music, including the bouncy heroic themes, energetic battle music, and even 
 some of the bittersweet touches the finer games in the series presented. Sound effects are good 
 and properly convey all that is happening. There is, unfortunately, no voice acting, which is a 
 disappointment, but considering that this is a game that is played by japanese and american gamers 
 on the same servers, that might be asking too much.
  
  There are some problems with the game, such as environments that are interesting at first, but 
 could stand to have more to do in them than run through and fight. Also, right now there is some 
 pretty insane inflation going on in the game, which will present a problem for new players not 
 particularly interested in crafting, which you'll pretty much have to do if you want to buy anything. 
 Also, the game can be a bit too slow for its own good. Run speed is just a titch too slow, and 
 the only thing that will happen quickly is you dying when facing super strong foes. Also, death 
 is pretty punshing in the game, especially at higher levels, as you lose a good dose of experience 
 points when you die. In a post WoW gaming world, uber-tough death penatlies seem kind of questionable. 
 But then again, this isn't a post WoW game, as it preceded WoW by a few years.
  
  Which begs the question, is this a worthwile release? I mean, it's a game that has been out for 
 several years and is now going into it's 3rd expansion pack... this game is certainly nothing new. 
 Strangely enough though, Final Fantasy XI manages to stay alive and fresh despite this, part of 
 which is due to the great Treasures of Aht Urhgan expansion included with the 360 version of the 
 game. Final Fantasy XI is alive and well, perhaps moreso than ever. Most mmo's are starting to 
 become tired and are only holding on to it's most hardcore fans by now, but Final Fantasy XI is 
 actually drawing in new players, breathing new life into the game. There is a good chance that 
 360 owners were also xbox owners who didn't get to play the game on ps2, and they will probably 
 find a lot to like here. Just how successful this release is has yet to be seen, but it does have 
 the benefit of being on a platform that is still very young and doesn't have a lot of gaming options 
 just yet. 360 owners want games, and they might just pick this up due to the fact that there's 
 nothing else new to play. Thankfully, they're going to be treated to one of the very best mmo's 
 out there. It rekindled my love for the game, and there are probably a lot of 360 owners who are 
 going to be experiencing it for the first time, and for some it may be their first mmo. All in 
 all, they're in for a good, if not exactly sparkling fresh experience.
  
  If you're interested, and are willing to put in the time, Final Fantasy XI is about as recommendable 
 as mmo's come, particularly if you haven't played it before. For new players, the inclusion of 
 FF XI and it's three expansions will provide more content than they can shake a moogle at, and 
 for those not ready it could become a hyper addictive gaming experience. Final Fantasy XI is totally 
 solid mmo, and despite the somewhat aged presentation, is recommendable to those looking for a 
 good social rpg experience for the xbox 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lup-0
Rating: 8.6
Date: Apr 23, 2006 4:06 am PT
Review:  I have the PS2 version, and all I can say is I have already played 400hrs and counting! Is it perfect? 
 No, but it is worth it. 
  
  What will you need to get started besides your Xbox360 console? An Xbox-HD, Xbox-live (and obviously 
 an internet connection) , pay a monthly fee ($13/month + $1 per additional content ID) and a lot 
 of patience to start (an USB keyboard is not required to play, but please get one you will thank 
 me later) . 
  
  This game consists in the original game and all the existing expansion. This game is a multiplatform 
 MMORPG, but be warned, this also means the whole online experience is based on Square-Enixs PlayOnline 
 service and (using Xbox-Live only as a tunnel) , that means expect no voice-based communication, 
 no Xbox achievements (trust me, you wont need them for this one!) , no next-gen graphics (in 
 this case I would even say who needs them as long as the game is good!) .
  
  Is it better than the PC or PS2 versions? Not really, it is the same game after all, but if you 
 have a low end PC or you have a 720p capable TV, you will probably get better graphics than what 
 you have right now (at least for me it is quite noticeable when compared to the PS2 version on 
 my TV) .
  
  The game has a slow start and it gets a little bit to get used to it, but after a few hours of 
 playing it (and I mean   4 hours) you will be on a roll and enjoying the game, and believe me 
 you will come back time and time again! There is always something to do and enjoy.
  
  Be warned (and please dont be discouraged by this!) : This game requires a long time to be installed 
 before you can play (at least a couple of hours) . Thats right, this is not an insert DVD and 
 start playing game (which is an oddity on game consoles) , just start the installation and go read 
 a book, or visit the FFXI forums (to learn more about the game) .
  
  Last warning: Once you have played it, you will spend a lot of time playing it! (and I mean it) . 
 Dont let this game to affect your performance at school, your job or your social life..
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: D1rty_Dawg
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 22, 2006 3:36 pm PT
Review:  FFXI has been around for quite some time now, on the PC and PS2 but now it has arrived on the 360 
 as well.
  
  A basic description though of what this is all about: Essentially an MMO is a game that is played 
 online along with hundreds or even thousands of other 'real' people, all playing their own characters.
 
  
  This one is set in a fantasy universe with plenty of magic and mayhem to go around. To play, you 
 will need a HDD for the 360, a Live account and you have to pay a monthly subscription for the 
 game, currently set at 8.99 a month, in addition to actually buying it as well.
  
  For your money you are getting the original game plus all three of the expansion packs including 
 the brand new one, Treasures of Aht Urhgan, which was only released a week ago.
  
  So on to the actual game play. First off, you will be playing with players on the other systems, 
 yes thats right. For the first time, PC and 360 and PS2 players can all play together in one glorious 
 world.
  
  But for me that is where the magic died. This game for starters is overly complicated and difficult 
 to install. Once you can actually get in you will find yourself having to spend hours and hours 
 to get the smallest increase in experience and then only if you can find a decent group to join 
 to get the help you will need to finish your jobs or quests.
  
  So I will close this review with a warning, this is a great game with plenty of depth and character 
 but only if you have the time to dedicate to it. If not, then you will become frustrated and bored 
 very quickly. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: swamptick
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 22, 2006 8:02 am PT
Review:  What can I say, I played FF XI for 1735 hours on the PS2. Alas I am only hoping that I will be 
 able to restore my old character. If not I shall endeavour on to regain my level 57 Paladin/ Warrior. 
 This game is peerless in terms of size, scope and player interaction. There is simply nothing else 
 out there that does what FFXI does.
  
  I know alot of imbeciles want to balyhoo about WOW. The fact remains that money talks and bullshnit 
 walks. Final Fantasy XI is the ONLY MMORPG to make money. Everquest, Star Wars, WOW...... none of 
 them have ever operated with a profit.... ever. FFXI has been making money for over 4 years and 
 is growing by leapes and bounds. The fact that it STILL remains the only MMORPG to cross platforms 
 .... THREE PLATFORMS AT THAT.... allows the players to access a community they could not imagine 
 until they immerse themselves in Vana'Diel. If you want to loose your soul, your girlfriend or 
 boyfriend, you job and your health..... but have ALOT of fun and make real friends along the way......... GET 
 THIS GAME!!! See you online! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Prince_DarkDrop
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jun 5, 2006 4:58 am PT
Review:  This has to be one of the best things I've ever got myself into
  the depth of this game is amazing I was a bit skeptical at first b4 buying
  but this is one of 
 the best gaming experiences I've ever had
  my only compliant is i was hoping they were going to make better use of the headset instead of 
 just one on one voice chat but i understand why keyboard chat is necessary
  
  What's really amazing
  I found myself just standing in the middle of a town or the middle of 
 the forest
  just watching everyone else and just being in awe at the world working around me
  the graphics 
 are great. what I also like is that your playing with people playing on the pc and ps2 so there's 
 not just a lot of noobs walking around not knowing what to do and everyone almost seems eager to 
 help you get started
  
  The only thing I can think for those people giving this game a low rating is they must of turned 
 it on for 5 mins got lost and gave up I will admit that the game starts off a little slow and confusing 
 a little bit. but you just have to give it a fair chance the music in this game is top notch just 
 what you would expect from square if you like final fantasy this is your game 
  
  the only other
  thing is it take a
  little while to figure out the controls but once you figured 
 them out you'll realize that they work really well 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KniyteRyder
Rating: 6.7
Date: Apr 21, 2006 2:26 pm PT
Review:  From KOEI's Dynasty Wwarriors 4 port to this port on the 360. And the sad part is that they aren't 
 even willing to remake this game as next-gen graphics, so it won't be any better than the PS2 version. 
 It's all the more to show how most high-pride Japanese developers won't support this American Console. 
 I'm not even going into detail about this game cause It's just like the PS2 version. They wouldn't 
 even put voice communication on here; it's terrible. It makes me not look forward to other RPG 
 games like Blue Dragon. If you have this game for PS2, then don't buy it for 360. If you have a 
 360 and never played this game or just a hardcore RPG fan of Square Enix, then go ahead and rent 
 this or even sacrifice a next-gen price of $60 if you really want it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Palantork
Rating: 8.7
Date: Apr 21, 2006 2:03 pm PT
Review:  People who put this game in their system and play it for 2 hours and say they don't like it haven't 
 even broken into the game. It took me around 8-12hrs of game play before I got into it. When Square 
 ported it to the 360 they should have done an overhaul on the graphics but they aren't bad by any 
 means. The game play is immersive and you will find yourself playing for hours. The real fun is 
 in parties when you start doing real damage to the monsters. So if you are thinking of this game, 
 I really do suggest it if you have the time. Give it a chance. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: viper15
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 21, 2006 11:26 am PT
Review:  the first true cross platfrom game where you can play with people from the PC, PS2 and XBOX360 I 
 never thought i would see the day a final fantasy would be on a xbox but that day has come and 
 come in a big way it has, i use to have this game on the PC and i can tell you now the 360 version 
 is the best. This is a pretty hard game so if your new to mmo be warned but with that said this 
 game was my first true mmo and i did ok but since than ive played many more and for some reason 
 i keep coming back to this one why im not sure maybe its for the people cause they have to be the 
 nicest people ive played with on any mmo but there still a **** here and there but its rare. but 
 to the point if u can look past the install part witch is a long process and the monthy fee there 
 is a lota game here fokes money well spent. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Redmarble
Rating: 7.3
Date: Apr 21, 2006 10:18 am PT
Review:  I have never before involved myself with an MMORPG (i. e. WOW) before, so take my review with a 
 grain of salt. I have been a long standing fan of Final Fantasy and consider it one of the video 
 gaming industry's greatest accomplishements (minus that Spirits Within movie) . My experience with 
 this game so far has got good and bad points: 
  
  -First, there is the vast amount of options you have in choosing skill trades. What needs work 
 is custom character design; There is very little customization of characters aside from changing 
 the hair colour, not nearly the same amount of depth as E. S. Oblivion. 
  
  -Though this is the first MMORPG I've played it is not the first MMO, and though MMOs are designed 
 to connect people there are some individuals who loose all sense of social grace when online.
 
  
  -The initial data downloading takes forever (roughly 45min-1hour) , then you have to download several 
 updates, then more downloads, then more frakkin' updates.
  
  -Though I'm not sure I really want to pay around $13 monthly, getting the complete game with all 
 the expansions in one package was a definite plus, and the fact that you can play with people using 
 PC and PS2 is an added bonus.
  
  - The world is huge, and character development takes and extensive amount of time and work, which 
 I really don't have the time for but appreciate nontheless. Still, character building in this game 
 a little too time consuming. One has to start off doing medial jobs in order to get a head start. 
 I do that in real life, I don't want to do it in video games. When I finally established my character 
 I thought I would get busy kickin' names and takin' @$$, only to find myself gettin' thug lovin' 
 from a bunch of Orcs, Leeroy Jenkins-style. 
  
  Bottom line, if you love Final Fantasy this game is worth looking into, but if you don't there 
 are better options for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jhsu805510
Rating: 3.1
Date: Apr 20, 2006 7:21 pm PT
Review:  Changing platform does not change anything.. 
  I have already played PC version for 3 years.
  and I say the most waste-time-MMORPG ever.
  
 
  3D structure is base on PS2 version. Nothing really improved except the resolution.
  
  Sluggish and imbalance game play.
  
  Takes-forever patch updating.
  
  Very inconvenient 
 system.
  
  vague description on game rule, abilities, and player status.
  
  This game is only suitable for English and Japanese players.
  Beware of culture misunderstanding 
 and discriminating.
  
  I don't know what Square-Enix is thinking about publishing this game also on PS3 console, what 
 else can they make difference or it's going to be the same FFXI?
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ellez
Rating: 8.3
Date: Apr 20, 2006 3:21 pm PT
Review:  Final Fantasy XI has finally come to the xbox 360. In my opinion, you have to be a die-hard fan 
 of the final fantasy series, have patience, and depend on others to love this game. Some of the 
 other reviewers are very biased either of a negative or positive point of view of this game and 
 it is not what people want to hear. I've played both the PC and Xbox360 versions and a veteran 
 of FFXI. I believe in reviewing MMORPGs, you will have to play the depth of the game before even 
 trying to make a decision about it.
  
  Final Fantasy XI for the xbox360 is also bundled all 3 of the expansions ( Rise of Zilart, Chains 
 of Promathia, and the new expansion, Treasures of Aht Urhgan) . The Online Service Square-Enix use 
 is Playonline besides using Xbox Live. At first, I did have registeration problems but that is 
 because of the other players that are trying to register also.
  
  The character selection screen is quite limited to other MMORPGs. You choose your chracter from 
 5 different races and looks and you choose your name. The server selection is automatic and you 
 do not choose to where you want to go unless you have a Worldpass that can be acquired in-game 
 from a friend.
  
  The gameplay/controls is Final Fantasy-like and it is quite unorthodox compared to other MMORPGs 
 but can be learned with time. I rarely never had any kind of lag when playing this game and that's 
 a good thing. When doing missions, it's very hard to find locations or what to do since there are 
 no automatic directions or help screen when you do take a mission and/or quest. Aquiring currency 
 (gil) is not easy at first and the best equipment for your character and level will not be cheap.
 
  
  Final Fantasy XI was meant for parties and soloing is very difficult later on in the game. You 
 will have to be dependent on other people as they will depend on you. Having a bad attitude in 
 this game will not really get you anywhere because of this. Making friends throughout this game 
 is a good idea and most of the players are very courteous compared to other online games.
  
  The graphics are pretty awesome compared to some MMORPGS out there that just released and this 
 game is nearly four years old. The action effects are colorful and really nice to look at. I did 
 think that the graphics could of been a bit enhanced because it was on a next gen console but don't 
 let that fool you if you are a fan of a good MMORPG.
  
  This game is not for the people who does not have any kind of patience because doing missions and 
 looking for parties will sometimes take more time than playing the game itself. Leveling up is 
 harder than you would think and finding ways to powerlevel your character is getting slimmer with 
 every update. Final Fantasy for the Xbox 360 can prove to be a great game for xbox 360 users if 
 you are willing to take time to understand the game and how it works.
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: supaguy
Rating: 2.3
Date: Apr 23, 2006 5:27 am PT
Review:  I dont know what they were thinking when they put this game on the market. The pace of the game 
 is extremley slow. Gaining levels is not only hard but time consuming and to get good you have 
 to play for ages. Traveling from place to place can take you up to 15 mins and haviing to stop 
 and regenerate heath becomes boring. Also the montly fee's are not worth the game, this is the 
 sort of game they should be paying you to have. The character creation system is one thing i do 
 like about it though is the customisation of all the characters and different items. But whats 
 the point of having all that and letting the gameplay slip?. This game should have stayed on the 
 PC and PS2 and Xbox 360 owners should have just saved there penies for Oblivion.
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: TASCAM
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 20, 2006 9:24 am PT
Review:  If your a Final Fantasy Fan you will love it, everything is there. If you don't have a lot of time 
 to play.... well you wont get really far... but if you put the time man to grind and do the missions, 
 that games addictive and very long!!!! Been playing on Pc with two characters at the same time 
 for the last 3 years and still loving it !!! I've played a bit of WoW, Guild Wars, Matrix Online, 
 CoH, CoV, but not the same type as FFXI...
  
  For those people who like to give 1,2,3,4 out of 10 on a game that is really better than 7.5, if 
 it's not your type of game just say so... but don't take the review down if your in minority....
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Legusto
Rating: 8.6
Date: Apr 20, 2006 7:09 am PT
Review:  Value- This game is just good. WOW, EQ2, and FFXI (PS2 and PC) , all cost around $15 a month to 
 play, but this version, costs around 6, nearly 1/3 of the price, and all the fun. 
  
  Graphics- I've seen better 360 graphics, but accounting for the giant worlds this game includes, 
 they hold up pretty nicely.
  
  Sound- Quirky, fun, japenese sounds inhabit the game and never cease to stop entertaining.
  
 
  Gameplay- Even though it has been out for 5 years, the gameplay remains the same for the most 
 part, but that is not a bad thing. The controls are kinda hard to get used to, but after an hour 
 or so they'll be fluent and easy. The fact that you can plaay with the people on the PS2 and PC 
 versions at the same time is awesome!
  
  Flaws- some graphical and collision detection issues here and there, a little expensive compared 
 to the others
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mada_Nniuq
Rating: 4.9
Date: Apr 20, 2006 7:05 am PT
Review:  First off, I'd like to say you run incredibly slow in this game. So slow, that it may take you 
 an hour just doing small tasks in a large town. 
  
  An MMORPG could have worked on 360. When it's ported from PC, then you think maybe it could work. 
 But it didn't. The controls are just plain awful. You'll find yourself spending the first 30 minutes 
 or so just trying to do simple things like opening the map. Now, think of any other MMO you've 
 played. Have you ever actually struggled to figure out simple things like opening a menu? This 
 wouldn't have happened if it wasn't a port, you need to make a 360-specific MMO or its just not 
 going to work. You know it's not a succesful PC to 360 port when there is still a cursor you have 
 to use. (Which, by the way, takes 10 seconds to move across the screen at full speed.)
  
  If this game didn't have the Final Fantasy label, I guarantee nobody would give it above a 5 unless 
 they really liked the PC version, but I never played that.
  
  If you're a fan of MMOs, go pick up Auto Assault instead. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: apuff11
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 20, 2006 3:02 am PT
Review:  There are major plus sides 4 buying this game 4 xbox 360 over the 
  PC. being that all 3 expansion packs com include so u dont have 2 pay for them separately. Installation 
 and updates R 5x faster then ur average PC. Graphics could't be any better (come on HD over a monitor) . 
 and you can interact with people playin from their ps2 and PC's. I haven't played this game for 
 very long but you know its a good game when you cant put it down by choice. All fans of MMORPG's 
 this a must have for your collection. If you have a xbox 360 you should have this game already. 
 Ok enough im done writing it time 2 get back 2 playin. 
  
  Just get the damn game point blank, u wont regret it
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: moagg
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 19, 2006 4:50 pm PT
Review:  Been playing the beta for a while and just bought the game. It's very addictive and very easy to 
 find yourself playing for hours at a time. However, setup for the game is extremely troublesome, 
 but the overall experience is "rewarding".
  
  Several reviewers have said that the graphics are comparable to games from the 90's, but quite 
 frankly those guys are full of crap. It's an MMO so you can't expect the graphics to be like Oblivion's 
 graphics. An MMO with cutting edge graphics would create lag thus screwing up every aspect of the 
 game. But I personally think the graphics are very good. The music can get kind of boring after 
 a while, though. Also the small text can burn your eyes. Also other reviewers have said that the 
 controls basically blow, but I would also have to disagree with that statement. There isn't individual 
 buttons to attack or block or anything like that. But I find this better since there is so many 
 ways to attack your opponent it would be troublesome and kind of confusing with just one button 
 to attack. 
  
  There is loads of things to do besides fighting. There are crafting skills, such as fishing, smithing, 
 bonecraft, etc. Also tons of quests and missions. Also a lot of armor and weapons to choose from. 
 There are many jobs to choose from for all those picky people out there. The map is huge with many 
 different monsters and such to engage in combat with. 
  
  Another thing that reviewers have mixed feelings about is the combat system. It's not like a hack 
 'n' slash where you go and keep hitting the attack button until they die. It's the basic, you attack 
 then they attack sort of thing. However, this changes depending on your speed and your opponents 
 speed. Most of you people out there think this system sucks and I used to be one of them. But since 
 most of the higher level monsters out there cannot be soloed you will have to party up with a group 
 of friends (or strangers) , thus making it better for you. If they just went all out, they'd blow 
 you away very fast. This way you actually have a chance out there in the wilderness.
  
  Also another thing I failed to mention is that this game for all its content and features, you 
 will have to pay a hefty monthly fine for this game. Although I know a lot of you gamers think 
 $12.95 a month isn't much, it could be for your fellow gamers.
  
  All and all I find this game to be highly enjoyable and addicting. Even if your not a fan I strongly 
 suggest at least giving this game a chance. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ripper-Uk
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 19, 2006 4:24 pm PT
Review:  Final fantasy XI has been out on the ps2/pc for nearly 5 years, now it comes to the xbox 360, the 
 main reason for this game coming to the 360 is so microsoft could get bonds with SE for future 
 FF Games.
  
  Graphics : Better than any of the other platforms, briliant particle/magic effects.
  All the 
 areas look great
  
  Sound : Brilliant with a dolby 5.1 digital
  
  Value : Will take you nearly 2 years to complete the game fully but they will still ads missions
 
  
  Overall : This game is brilliant, if your a FF fan like me, or someone who likes to be with a team 
 and feel like a group.
  
  especially for 25.99 great value, 25.99 = $46.57 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gdub8
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 19, 2006 9:32 am PT
Review:  I'm writing this review not only because I'm a Huge fan of this game, but I get a little tired 
 of the kids and their reviews. Ok, I understand that everyone has an opinion, and that's what this 
 rating system is all about. I just get sick of the ratings based on a "Because Factor". Some of 
 these KIDS haven't even played the game and are rating it. 
  
  First let me start of by saying this game is not for everyone, if your not a people person, or 
 a FF fan in general, don't even try playing this game. Or else you'll be one of the idiots that 
 thought it was something diffrent rating the game a 2 or 3, because of it. If you at all like the 
 gameplay which on my server was about 1310 last weekend before this release, you'll probadly have 
 to watch yourself or this game can TAKE OVER YOUR LIFE.. litereally.. You also can't survive in 
 this game without making friends. The play is overwelming cause you always have something to do. 
 I can't talk about the expansion yet, cause that won't come out until the 20th. 
  
  So get off SE, they're being smart realeasing a 5 year old game that people that played 5 years 
 ago still play, and they're also getting a whole new fan base. Remember XBOX wants this, the main 
 goal is to establish a relationship between XBOX and SE, which will include future FF games on 
 the XBOX. THAT'S WHY THEIR REALSING A 5 YEAR OLD GAME ON A NEXT GEN SYSTEM. Idiots!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marcosi
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 19, 2006 2:55 am PT
Review:  If you are a FF fan, then by all means you should buy this game.
  I know the graphs are not the best thing in FFXI, but if you are looking to meet people from around 
 the globe and have fun, this game has to be yours.
  
  You can advance at your own pace throughout the game, Like all the RPG'S the lower levels are frustrating 
 and somehow annoying, but once you get the hang of it, youll be addicted to it. (Be patient)
  
  You'll have total freedom in this game you can do whatever you want whenever you want, you 
 can explore the huge world, you can fight monsters to level up like crazy and get new abilities, 
 you can complete the missions of the game, or you can just talk with people or bug them lol.
  
  Also If you are learning a new language like Spanish, French, English or Japanese; You can 
 practice with the people in the game, like a pen pal but better. I am teling you this from personal 
 experience, I was practicing my japanese all the time in the game.
  
  Once you see the cool jobs, abilities, magic and different armor that you can have for your character, 
 you will want to level up as fast as you can so you can perform and own all this amazing things. 
 Ofcourse you won't see this at the beginnig of the game, thats why Iam telling you again to try 
 it for a little while and you will be amazed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ChiefNeo
Rating: 1.9
Date: Apr 18, 2006 9:27 pm PT
Review:  Ok, let me give it to you straight... DO NOT BUY THIS GAME! If you do you will let square know 
 that it can get away with porting a 5 year old piece of crap to a NEXT GEN console and charge the 
 grotesque amount of 59.99 for it. 
  
  If you played the game before, know that the game is exactly the same except for a couple of completely 
 minor things that don; t make it fresh nor good. The interface is horrible, as is the installation 
 process (it'll drain your HD) and you HAVE to use square's tedious "play online" service. This 
 game feels and IS very old... If you have an average PC go play world of warcraft... This game 
 is horrible. 
  
  The gameplay sucks because it is not good on a controller, the graphics are god-awful, the music 
 is good (then again you dont play this for the music) ...
  
  If gamespot gives this game anything above a 3.9 I will loose all my respect for them as NO aspect 
 about this game makes it worth the 59.99 price tag... This game was ok 5 years ago, now its CRAP. 
 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
