-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: FlatOut: Ultimate Carnage
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/xbox360/driving/flatouttotalcarnage/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 New gameplay modes are quite good.
 Visuals and track dynamics are a big jump over FlatOut 2.
 Online multiplayer can be a riot.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 At its core, this is still very much FlatOut 2.
 Floaty, somewhat generic feel of the cars can be off-putting.
 No split-screen multiplayer.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Oct  8, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.5
Critic Score: 8.0, 52 Review (s)
User Score: 8.1, 623 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Empire Interactive
Developer: Bugbear
Genre: Demolition Derby
Date: Oct 2, 2007
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
It might not offer enough new stuff to make it worthwhile for owners of FlatOut 2, but Ultimate 
 Carnage is still a riotous racer in its own right. 

  The newly released FlatOut: Ultimate Carnage is actually just a reworking of 2006's demolition 
 racer FlatOut 2. It's got the prerequisite shiny new graphics and additional on-track carnage. 
 However, it also comes with some new modes and vehicles to help flesh out the package a bit more. 
 While you can't help but feel like developer BugBear might have just been better off making a proper 
 FlatOut sequel instead of reheating its last game, the upgrades made here are significant enough 
 to make the game stand on its own.  

           It might mostly be FlatOut 2 all over again, but Ultimate Carnage sure does look a hell 
 of a lot better.      

  For those who are not in the know about this FlatOut business, the FlatOut series is all about 
 demolition racing. Whether you're bashing opponents into trees while crashing through walls of 
 tires and leaping off rooftops in standard races, getting your crash on in straight-up demolition 
 derbies, or flinging the driver of your car through your windshield into a set of bowling pins 
 or a series of flaming rings, one theme remains constant throughout: wrecking everything -- and wrecking 
 it good. Arguably, FlatOut 2 wasn't quite as entertaining as its predecessor because the game took 
 the series in a slicker, less grimy-feeling direction. The grit and dirty destruction of the first 
 game were sanded down, until all that was left was an offroad Burnout clone. But as luck would 
 have it, offroad Burnout is still pretty fun.  

  The good news is that Ultimate Carnage takes the groundwork laid by FlatOut 2 and improves it by 
 a good measure. If you ever played FlatOut 2, you'll notice the difference the second you lay rubber 
 to the track. The visual upgrade is more than just the standard upscaling of the existing visual 
 assets. Apart from basic upgrades, such as improved lighting, as well as better smoke and water 
 effects, BugBear has vastly improved the look of on-track action. Cars are much more detailed (and 
 there's more of them on the track now, with up to 12 drivers instead of the previous eight) , and 
 the wrecks are far more elaborate. On the track, there are tons of objects to knock around and 
 break apart, considerably more than in FlatOut 2. It's customary to see tracks completely littered 
 with tires, logs, broken glass, shopping carts, lamp posts, shorn car parts, and all manner of 
 other destroyed bric-a-brac by the time you reach the last laps. The sheer dynamism of the game's 
 destructible elements is quite impressive, and that fact that the game runs at such a smooth clip 
 while all this carnage is going on is also a big bonus.  

  As excellent as the racing looks, it doesn't always play quite as wonderfully. BugBear definitely 
 could have stood to improve the way the cars handle. There are three car classes in the game: derby, 
 race, and street. The problem is, except for the expected differences in speed, none of the cars 
 handle all that differently from one another. Size is really the only major difference, and even 
 that is purely cosmetic (big trucks trump small racers in crashes, and so on) . Each car has several 
 ratings in categories, such as speed, acceleration, strength, weight, and the like. All of these 
 categories can also be upgraded via new parts in the FlatOut mode, but even these upgrades lack 
 a measure of tangibility. Again, you notice differences in speed, but no matter how much you crank 
 up the handling rating or the weight rating, you'll still feel like you're driving the same basic 
 car across the board. That might be OK if the cars didn't feel so floaty and generally off-kilter 
 from the outset. You'll get used to how the cars feel as you play, but something about this feel 
 combined with the lack of true differentiation among cars makes the racing less interesting than 
 you might hope for.  

  Car handling quibbles aside, you will have fun with FlatOut: Ultimate Carnage. After all, there 
 are so many different ways to play it that you're bound to enjoy  something . FlatOut mode is the 
 game's career mode and hasn't been altered much from FlatOut 2. You start out with a clunker of 
 a derby car, race through a series of unlockable events, unlock new car classes, buy more cars, 
 buy upgrades, and progress as you would through any standard career mode in a racer. Stunt mode 
 also hasn't been upgraded much, though the stunts are still a blast to play. All the stunts revolve 
 directly around launching your driver, be it in a game of high jump, long jump, bowling, basketball, 
 baseball, or royal flush. It's all about setting the right angle for your driver's launch and sending 
 him hurling toward whatever object the game requires for maximum points. There's a great variety 
 of these games, and they're a blast to play in the game's party mode.  

  It's not all old hat in terms of features because there are some new race types and modes in Ultimate 
 Carnage. One new mode addition is the carnage mode, a second career mode of sorts that revolves 
 around a series of challenges taken from all the various race and stunt modes. These include the 
 new race types found in the game, such as beat the bomb, which is a race where you score points 
 by going as far as you can before a ticking clock with a bomb at the end of it runs out; carnage 
 race, which is like a standard race, except you score points by wrecking the scenery and other 
 cars; and deathmatch derby, which is like a standard demolition derby, but with time-based matches 
 and the goal of getting as many kills as you can before time runs out.  

           Forget the World Series of Poker. This is what ESPN needs to start televising.      

 
  All of these can also be played online, and that is really where Ultimate Carnage shines. Offline 
 racing is amusing, but getting online against other players, especially in some of these new modes, 
 can be downright awesome. Online performance seemed solid in our testing, and with the game already 
 having been out in Europe for quite some time now, there's already a strong online community to 
 play against. Incidentally, there's no split-screen multiplayer of any kind in Ultimate Carnage 
 (there was in FlatOut 2) , so if you want to play against people, it'll have to be online.  

  What it's ultimately going to boil down to with FlatOut: Ultimate Carnage is whether you already 
 bought FlatOut 2 or not. The new content in Ultimate Carnage is unquestionably a big step above 
 FlatOut 2, but what is questionable is whether it's enough to justify paying another $50 for a 
 game that, for as much as it's changed, still feels extremely familiar. If you never touched FlatOut 
 2 and are looking for a crash-happy racer, Ultimate Carnage will absolutely fit the bill. If you 
 already took the plunge previously, think about whether upgraded visuals and a few new gameplay 
 modes are enough to justify a second purchase.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (44 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: BradHummr
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 7, 2009 4:26 pm PT
Review:  On October 2nd of the year 2007, 360 gamers were treated with a next-gen version of the FlatOut 
 series. FlatOut Ultimate Carnage is a game where street and offroad racing meld together into a 
 perfect racing shake. I first got hooked on the FlatOut series with FlatOut Head On on the PSP 
 system. After I bought my 360, I knew Ultimate Carnage was a must-buy.
  
  Story :N/A
  
  If you take one look at the box for this game, you can guess that there probably won't be a good 
 story, if a story at all. You shouldn't judge a game by it's box art, but you'd be right. FlatOut 
 Ultimate Carnage has no story mode to speak of. It fills the void of no story by adding names to 
 the CPU racers. Consistant names too, so you can imagine one of them your rival and try to really 
 mess them up in the next race. The goal of Ultimate Carnage is to make it to the end of the race 
 first and in one piece. In the stunts, your goal varies, but it usually comes down to getting the 
 highest score. I haven't bought a racing game for the story ever, but if you're looking for a racing 
 game with a good story, stray away from this.
  
  Gameplay: 9/10
  
  From the start of the series, FlatOut has always been compared to Criterion's star racing series 
 Burnout. However, it is unfair to compare them as they are both quite different in terms of gameplay 
 and style. FlatOut is a game about massive amounts of dirty vehicle carnage.. Around every corner 
 there are things to knock down and destroy, every track is littered with thousands of items to 
 drive into and crash. Every vehicle in the game is fully destructible in real-time. If someone 
 said the words 'down and dirty' near my earshot, FlatOut would come to mind first.
  
  FlatOut is composed of lots of modes with lots of variety. First of all you've got your standard 
 mode in a racing game. This mode is called FlatOut and yes, it's like a 'championship' or 'world 
 tour' mode in most games. In this mode, you progress through a series of vehicle classes, unlock 
 new cars and classes and earn money... used to purchase upgrades and vehicles. There are three car 
 class types. Derby, Race and Street. Derby vehicles are the slowest, but the most durable, Race 
 is all around good and Street vehicles are the fastest, but also the weakest. You progress through 
 the races in the form of cups. You are given a number of tracks and laps to complete, you get points 
 for coming in certain positions (1st = 10pts, 2 = 8pts ect.) and whoever has the most points at 
 the end of the races wins the cup and you can progress to the next one.
  
  Along with the races, FlatOut mode has sub-events. These do not need to be completed for access 
 to the other vehicle classes, but you miss out on money and additional vehicles. Sub-events consist 
 of Time Attack races (Try to beat a certain lap time) and Demolition Derbies (Try to cause the 
 most damage and survive) . Completing these sub-events shouldn't cause you too much trouble. They 
 are well worth the racing credits they hold and you get an achievement for getting gold on all 
 of them! You start on the Derby Class races, but as you beat cups you'll unlock the Race and then 
 Street Class races. The FlatOut mode alone, if you're going for all gold, will easily take you 
 10 hours or more. The only bad thing about FlatOut mode? The credits you earn don't serve any purpose 
 outside of FlatOut mode. You use it to upgrade and buy vehicles, but in the other modes all other 
 vehicles are automatically unlocked. It's a shame you can't show off your efforts in other modes.
 
  
  The next biggest contender for your time is the Carnage mode. In Carnage mode, you are given a 
 large number of events. Be it a stunt, a demo derby, a race, a carnage race, beat the bomb or a 
 time attack. As you complete events, you gain points for them. More points unlock more events throughout 
 the Carnage mode. Carnage mode is perhaps the most challenging mode of the game. You get ranked 
 from nothing to Bronze, Silver or Gold... depending on how well you do on the events. Thankfully 
 you can beat Carnage mode with just all Bronze in everything, but it requires Gold to unlock the 
 bonus vehicles to use in FlatOut and other modes. FlatOut mode lacks some of the better vehicles, 
 so beating FlatOut and Carnage mode at the same time is a good strategy.
  
  What makes Carnage mode so special from FlatOut mode? Carnage mode doesn't let you pick everything. 
 Usually it will choose a track and vehicle for you. Sometimes it gives you a good one, but a few 
 events later you find yourself faced with impossible odds. Some events require perfect scores on 
 some of the stunts! Carnage mode will take a good while to complete, especially if you're going 
 for all gold. However, if you like achievements, Carnage will not disappoint.
  
  FlatOut Ultimate Carnage has a large amount of vehicles for you to drive. From well-worn cars and 
 trucks from the derby class, to the durable and fast vehicles in the race class all the way up 
 to the sleek and shiny machines of the street class. They don't stop there though, no sir. After 
 those classes (Which each contain over ten vehicles) you have the bonus vehicles! These include 
 the trademark FlatMobile, a semi truck cab, a school bus and a gangster car. Aside from those, 
 you even get a brand new set of stunt cars to use during all your stunts!
  
  Each race gives you eleven opponents to race against, smash against walls and use as roadblocks. 
 Every derby has you against another eleven contenders as well. This is a step up from the series 
 normal amount of eight racers (Including you) for every race and derby. The AI is good, but predictable. 
 Every race or derby has the same character names, but depending on the class, they drive different 
 vehicles. While they do stick to the track and avoid you for the most part, they can be frustratingly 
 perfect sometimes. You could be driving great the whole race, only to get messed up by a safety 
 cone at the end. As you frantically reset your vehicle to the track, you find out that even though 
 you were driving perfectly, the AI was on your tail and they speed on past you and go through the 
 finish line.
  
  If you know your vehicles well, you can easily tell who will be the biggest threat just by indentifying 
 their vehicle. Usually they will have a vehicle you don't have unlocked yet and of course it's 
 also usually the best of the class. This means you need to work even harder, as at the start of 
 every race they already have the advantage. Once you get into the good vehicles though, you can 
 leave them in the dust. Lap them, crash them, put on the brakes and let them catch up so you can 
 have a little fun... whatever. The good news? No rubberband system! You know that annoying gameplay 
 trait in a lot of racing games? You get far ahead, your opponents get infinite nitros, or suddenly 
 they get a major speed upgrade. Not in Ultimate Carnage. You can leave them in the dust without 
 worrying about such things. 
  
  The tracks are like a box of chocolates. Some of them are great, some are good, but regardless, 
 they're all covered in chocolate! In Ultimate Carnage, the tracks vary from water canals, to the 
 desert, to the forest, they make their way into town and then they stop and have some fun on crash-oriented 
 bonus tracks. The city tracks as usually fast, but there aren't quite as many crashes. The off-road 
 tracks present lots of crash opportunities as well as more dangerous driving conditions. Every 
 track is well built, some even with shortcuts that can be hard to find and even harder to master. 
 There are lots of different tracks and then there are more tracks built out of interlocking tracks. 
 There aren't many tracks that you will want to remember the name of, to race on them later, but 
 you'll certainly find a track you really enjoy!
  
  The gameplay in FlatOut Ultimate Carnage is superb. It's unique, it's fun and it has a well-rounded 
 challenge level. Whenever you beat an event of race, you feel like it was worth it. The cars have 
 lots of variety and are, for the most part, fun to drive. Every race is unpredictable and even 
 the underdog poses a sort of threat. These are all things I feel make an important racing game 
 and BugBear Entertainment sure hit the target in the dead-center on this one.
  
  Controls: 7/10
  
  If you have read previous reviews about this game, you should somewhat know 
 that a lot of people have trouble with the controls. I'm not going to lie, they take a while to 
 get used to and even hours to get the hang of. The vehicles feel slippery, a lot of them can fishtail 
 way too easily and others couldn't make a turn to save their life. You want the good news? These 
 problems aren't permanent! If you spend some time with this game, maybe pick a favorite car, choose 
 to race on a familiar track. You can master the controls. The game gives you your normal brake 
 and then, a soon-to-be-standard racing game extra, the e-brake. The normal brake slows your car 
 down and then starts into reverse, the e-brake, however, locks up your rear tires so you can send 
 your vehicle sliding around corners.
  
  If you learn how to effectively use both brakes, you can eat up the tracks and the competitors 
 who dare to race against you. Had the game had tighter controls, faster responding cars and a better 
 feeling of weight, the controls would easily go from a 7 to a 9. They take time to master, but 
 they aren't impossible to use.
  
  Sound: 8/10
  
  Music: The music in Ultimate Carnage is mostly punk-rock. Personally, I hadn't heard of any of 
 the songs in the game and only about two of the bands. For the most part I left the songs on, they 
 fit with the action really well and some of them were actually quite catchy! However, there was 
 the occasional song that made me turn the music volume all the way down. There is no option to 
 switch songs, or turn off the ones you don't like. This is a shame, but at least the Xbox 360 gives 
 me the option to play my own music in-game.
  
  Sound Effects: When you play your first race, you can tell the developers put a lot of effort into 
 the sounds. In addition to the usual engine and tire squealing sounds, there have been lots of 
 small details added to make it a truly unique experience! The derby cars have parts that are shaking 
 around, those make noise. As your car gets damaged, if pieces are dragging, you hear that too. 
 When driving over dirt you can even hear all the dirt and the occasional rock hitting the underside 
 of your car! Items against of items is really well done too. What do I mean by that? I mean like 
 metal on metal, metal on cement and metal on wood. I've been playing the game for easily over 30 
 hours and I'm still discovering new sound effects.
  
  The car engines are also very, very close to being perfect. Some cars start out with a powerful 
 engine sound, some barely keeping the motor running and others with quiet motors that really get 
 whirring as you pick up speed. As you get damaged, the make different sounds too! Especially the 
 derby cars. I remember getting so damaged one time, that when I finished the race, my engine was 
 making such a worn-out noise I was amazed. Some vehicles borrow sounds from others (Especially 
 those close in specifications) but most of them are unique.
  
  There is a flaw with the sound effects, however. This has happened in both the FlatOut games I 
 have had the pleasure to play. Because of all the sound effects from all the debris, the tracks 
 and all the vehicles colliding with this, there is usually nonstop sound of stuff hitting other 
 stuff. Sometimes, like when there is a really loud noise and a large amount of other sounds, the 
 sound effects will cut themselves short for the rest of the race. You can hear them start, but 
 soon after they begin, they end abruptly. This only happened to me like once every thirty or forty 
 races, but I feel it was worth mentioning. The music and sound effects add a lot to the game, without 
 them, the total destruction feel wouldn't quite be there. 
  
  Graphics: 9/10
  This is easily the best looking driving game I have ever played, as well as one of the best looking 
 360 games I've ever played. The car models are fantastic! Every vehicle is very detailed down to 
 the tailpipes and rust stains. Even as your vehicle become damaged, it still looks great! The motor 
 becomes visible (not to mention the fan of the motor also... you can see that spinning around in 
 there) , the inside, the underside, everything on the cars looks great, on or off. With the impressive 
 amount of vehicles, you get quite the anatomy lesson on them all.
  
  The tracks go hand-in-hand with the cars. Everything is done in a realistic style, which only adds 
 to the atmosphere. The tracks themselves are stunning. They have some really detailed textures 
 on them, especially the off-road tracks. You can see every speck of dirt and mud flying into the 
 air, as well as trails of dust coming from the other vehicles. If you're behind the pack, sometimes 
 it can be impossible to see because of all the dirt and dust in the air! 
  
  The items that you can crash around also look really good... from a distance. Upon closer inspection 
 you can see how blurry a lot of their textures are. It is understandable though. With thousands 
 of items on every track, I'll take a sacrifice that minor. Who is really going to notice the textures 
 on some items flying through the air while you blow through at a hundred and twenty MPH anyway? 
 The graphics in this game are, simply put, very impressive. The best part? No slowdown! I have 
 raced hundreds of races and only once in a blue moon will there be enough dust and explosions on 
 the screen to slow down the framerate, even then it's only for a second. Bravo BugBear!
  
  Multiplayer: 7/10
  This game supports online multiplayer and offline 'party' mode. Party mode 
 has you passing the controller to up to seven others as you compete for high scores in stunt mode. 
 I was really hoping for a splitscreen mode, but that is not to be found.
  
  I have played quite a bit of the Xbox LIVE online multiplayer and it is a blast! There can only 
 be eight people at once in this mode, but you can choose from any track, stunt or derby to compete 
 in. The matches can be created and found quite easily. I have only run into one person who lagged 
 and it was only the first part of a race before the person was back to normal. After you master 
 the controls, the AI racers won't pose much of a threat, so racing against other players is the 
 way to go. 
  
  The bad? There are player matches and ranked matches. Ranked matches are the only way to get online 
 achievements and I have not found a single person who was in a ranked match or willing to do a 
 ranked match. I'm sure the game was more popular when it was first released, but it's still a shame.
 
  
  Replay Value: 9/10
  I know I have raced every track at least thirty times and I keep coming back for more. The sheer 
 amount of available vehicles and tracks will keep you occupied for hour upon hour. Aside from the 
 time-consuming single player modes, you have the party mode to play with your family and the online 
 multiplayer if you want a real challenge! I have been addicted to racing games before, but after 
 playing FlatOut Ultimate Carnage for so long, it makes my other 'addictions' look like I went over 
 to a friends house to try the other racing games out.
  
  Rent, Buy or Avoid?
  If you couldn't tell by reading the review that is above this, buy, buy, buy! I bought this game 
 for just over $20. The game is well worth it. FlatOut Ultimate Carnage is the most enjoyable racing 
 game I have ever played on a home console. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DJGracie73
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 16, 2008 7:55 pm PT
Review:  I would love to describe an evening with this game, but this is a family site... lets just say that 
 cheech and chong would have LOOOOOVEEED this game. The Mini games make this game worth the full 
 price. (But get it used if you can :) )
  
  The rag doll physics are absolutely hilarous, especially ramming your driver thought the front 
 windshield.... priceless!
  
  The racing is OK, the same as to be expected with any other racer. Typical tracks, typical AI, 
 great environment destruction and sound. The Derby race is awesome, I have had my butt handed too 
 me on several occasions over x-box live, (most reciently by a 12 y/o from England.... jeesh!!) The 
 customization is decent, complex enought for the tinker-er, but not as intense as Forsa Motorsports, 
 but thats not what this game is about.
  
  Pick this up if you (and your friends) need a hell of a good laugh. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eze_sl89
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 20, 2008 9:41 am PT
Review:  Lets start saying flatoutUG is a great game. Its one of those you should have in your collection, 
 but its far from perfect.
  
  Graphics: awesome, smooth textures, beautiful water effects, and overall, the tracks and automoviles 
 are very well designed. great graphics.
  
  Gameplay: addictive. You wont stop playing the minigames or the demolition mode. It feels so cool 
 to blow stuff. Explotions are nicely made and controls are very easy to learn.
  
  Sound/Music: outstanding sound effects, the engine roars and wheels drifts sounds are impressive. 
 Background music is remarkable, theyll infect you with a "speedy sense".
  
  So. Why did i chose an 8.5 to this game? well... let me drop the bomb here...
  
  PHYSICS!!!: 
 WTF? i mean, damn it was such a good game that this feature kind of spoil the whole thing. I mean.. 
 mmm.. is it real that a tool box stay on your cars roof for almost a race? i mean, you drive frenetically, 
 crash several times, drift like a crazy cow... and still.. the objects you step on may stay hanging 
 on your car. 
  It may be possible that when crashing stuff up, a gigantic rock like almost the size of your truck, 
 flies away is if it wheigh 1 Kg.?? wtf? stuff look as if they were made from plastic of some crap 
 like that. 
  
  
  Anyway, this game is still an awesome game. I think its a fusion between MOTOR STORM, BURNOUT PARADISE 
 and GRID. Its like a crazy mixture that manages to be an enjoyable game. Wanna crash, smash, destroy, 
 blow stuff up? GET THIS GAME. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: raiandagr8st
Rating: 5.5
Date: Sep 15, 2008 10:52 am PT
Review:  Flatout ultimate carnage could of been a much better game if it werent nearly exactly the same 
 as the old one. Couple of new people new mode to unlock things but apart from that it is practically 
 the same as the old one except flashier. If it had new game types, tracks, cars etc. it would of been 
 alot better but i found it very boring playing the same game again. The ragdoll olympics is fun 
 but as always it's the same as flatout 2 but for newcomers it is a very fun game not like many 
 other games and it is very playing online but if your a person who bought the previous ones i think 
 you will agree with me maybe you'd have to be a hardcore fan to still love it. But overall i think 
 this game is quite medicore. I know a couple of people will disagree but that is my honest opinion 
 of the game. stff controls aswell hard campaign 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TX360
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 9, 2008 5:01 pm PT
Review:  Introduction
  
  So is this a game that will worry burnout or is it just a terrible racer well read on and find 
 out.
  
  Single player
  
  Ok now im going to give you my honest opinion and if you disagree its ok. This game has some serious 
 problems and come close to ruining the whole experience one of these problems is the amount of 
 objects on the tracks they may be impressive but not only do they distract you they slow you down 
 and every track is full useless crap and it just was not needed.
  Next is the cars now they go quickly but they handle poorly because if you turn into a corner at 
 150km you will go right off and wonder why they call it flatout because this is unacceptable for 
 a game about speed and carnage and it ruins the sense of speed because once you get up to high 
 speed prepare to brake and feel like your playing forza its just not impressive at all.
  
  Flatout does have good points though and one is the graphics they look fantasitc especially the 
 water its stunning and the team have used a fair amount of the 360s power to give you polished 
 impressive visuals.
  
  The track races are poor but flatout succeeds when you play the derbys this is not only entertaining 
 but actually has you nervous especially online and its a laugh most of the time.
  
  The party games like shooting your driver out your window is amusing and challenging and if you 
 get your friends over a good laugh but its not easy so be warned.
  
  closing comments
  Flatout has impressive visuals fun party games but as a racer it just does not click the races 
 are frustrating and the cars handling is just not good enough and the amount of objects on the 
 road is more like a technical excercise rather than essential for the actual game but if you like 
 the look of it rent it and you never know it may be good enough for a buy.
  
  Pros
  derbys are tense
  excellent visuals
  party mode is quite funny 
  
  cons
  Car handling 
 honestly ruins most of the game
  objects on track are just not essential
  frustratingly hard later on in the game
  gets repetatiive after a long while 
::::::

::::::
UserName: peza141
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 22, 2008 7:40 am PT
Review:  Flatout is a great arcade racing racing racing game based on banger racing. It privids fast paced 
 action packed racing mixed with full car damage. 
  
  Flatout mixes racing with party themed gaming such as the minigames where you have to fling you 
 driver into gaint dart boards of using him as bowling ball. 
  The single player mode in flatout is resonably long and in some place quite challenging. As you 
 progress through the career mode you can upgrade you car with performance parts and, if you feel 
 like it just buy a new car altogerther. The game requries some skill as the ai oppents are no pushover, 
 they will slam into when you try and overtake them. Sometimes the rubber band ai gets very frustrating 
 because they seem to pull out massive leads. The graphics are impressive but still not much of 
 an overall improvement from the ps2s graphics. The sheer amount of objects to destroy in each race 
 is neverending. The load times are shorter than forza 2 so i haven't got a clue why gamespot said 
 they were long. 
  
  overall i recommend this game to all of the burnout fans and generally to gamers who like to smash 
 stuff up. This is agood fun laid back racer that you can just pick up and play for 10mins if you 
 feel like it or you can play it for a longer amount of time with its highly addictive racing style. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 43n1m4
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 9, 2008 4:26 am PT
Review:  Need a fast racing game? Do you like destruction? Have you ever had a secret desire to fly through 
 your cars windshield and fly 200 meters in the air to hit a large baseball club?
  
  If you can say 'check' to the questions above, Flatout could be your game.
  Its easy, and very 
 relevant, to compare this game to Burnout - but in reality they are more different than they appear. 
 
  
  First and foremost, Flatout is really two games. It has the singleplayer campaign, which is a typical 
 'career' mode. Unlike Burnout, it is possible to upgrade the cars you drive, and you have to earn 
 money - by winning races -if you want to have better cars. The single player campaign is pretty 
 straightforward, but the velocity and ferocity of the races makes it interesting nonetheless. And 
 requires, surprisingly, some skill, as the courses have some bends and twists, as well as different 
 surfaces, ranging from desert sand to good old tarmac.
  
  The second part of the game - the party mode - is a nice bonus. It concentrates on the aspect of 
 the driver flying through the windshield, which has been the trademark of the Flatout series since 
 the original Flatout.
  The party mode support up to 8 players who plays in turn, so theres no need for an extra controller. 
 The different minigames takes very little time for each turn (around 30 sec.) , so even if you are 
 8 people playing, theres not too much waiting. The different minigames ranges from bowling to flying 
 through rings of fire. Common to them all are the concept of getting the car up to speed, and then 
 (with a press from a button) throwing your driver through the window and then control him in the 
 air. It may sound easy, but Bugbear has tweaked each event, so it requires some reflex skills getting 
 the right angle. Still, the game is not impossible to play, even when you've had the first 5 beers.
 
  
  The graphics are impressive, especially considering the amount of debris, clutter and breakable 
 objets on each course. Bugbear claims that the amount of breakable objects (and the following debris) 
 is about 8000 per course, and it doesn't seem like an overstatement. On top of that, put in the 
 car damage and shaded surfaces, and you have a very nice looking game. But the amount of debris 
 is also the weak spot of this game, as the debris push your car a bit too much, hitting a broken 
 fence can throw your car off the road and possibly cost you your 1st place - and the amount of 
 debris on the course makes it very difficult to avoid crashing into something. 
  The loading times are relatively short, and the sound would've been great, if not for the rather 
 limited soundtrack. Were talking about mid-class nu-heavy music late 90-ish, and not many of them 
 to boot.
  
  So what do you get for your money?
  
  You get an above-average career mode. Fun, challenging driving. Very good party mode (enjoy it 
 with beer) and the price (in my country at least) is very low. So it may not be a classic, but 
 its recommended.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gribb85
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 26, 2008 1:58 pm PT
Review:  Flatout: Ultimate Carnage is the most recent release in the crash and bang franchise by under-rated 
 developer's Bugbear, for the Xbox 360 and soon to be PC. Flatout: UC emphasizes the more aggressive 
 form of motor racing in the guise of destruction derby's, circuit racing, and indeed stunt driving. 
 There are six different predictable racing environments to be had, snow, urban, country, and town 
 environments with thirty nine different track variations. Races take place amongst 12 (including 
 yourself) racers, amongst obstacle filled environments with ramps, short cuts, and varied debris. 
 This is F: UC's bread and butter but it also brings to the table Derby events, where your racer 
 is placed in the ring with other drivers for the specific purpose to destroy the other races, and 
 Stunt events where the gamer must fling there seatbelt ignorant driver into certain areas to score 
 points. What appears to be a generic racer actually has some original ideas, looks can be deceiving 
 after all. 
  
  Cars are split into four catagorys Derby (bangers) , Race (well looked after bangers) , Street and 
 Stunt cars. The career is split between different events and money is earned via career mode in 
 order to buy new cars and parts to customize your vehicle. It is an established and frankly well 
 trodden formula which is growing tedious in the racing genre, but not so much in this game. The 
 cars feel different enough and the games thirty nine different tracks are spread evenly so as to 
 not become stale, mixing races, time trial events and destruction derbies. There is a long career 
 mode which will take the gamer a considerable amount of time to win every race, and it feels fun 
 for the majority of its length. There is also Carnage Mode which runs alongside the career, including 
 specific events with different cars. All of the games modes are included such as Stunt, Race, Derby 
 and time trials to unlock some of the games more iconic cars such as the batman inspired 'flatmobile.' 
 At this point it would be good to mention that none of the cars included in the game are real life 
 creations due to copyright issues or the fact that Bugbear didn't want the baggage which comes 
 along with destroying trademarks, but this isn't a detriment to the experience.
  
  The Stunt mode involves 12 difference events including bowling, high jump, downhill skiing, free 
 throw and others. They involve propelling your rag doll inspired driver into obstacles for example 
 free throw, involves you propelling your driver through basketball hoops to score points, and stone 
 skipping entails propelling your driver down a pool and keeping him above water for the longest 
 distance possible. It sounds utterly bizarre and it is, and the game serve their purpose as a momentary 
 aside from the games circuit led racing.
  
  The graphics have had an overhaul since Flatout 2 and the car models, environment, and particle 
 effects look good without the game ever straining or stuttering. I have played this game for over 
 40 hours and I cannot once remember any instance where slowdown has occurred even amongst multi-car 
 pile ups in the busier environments. Textures look more functional than incredible, but they embody 
 the atmosphere of the game, without seeming dull or pale. The cars sound like you would expect 
 them but after being treated to Forza sound, gamers might be under whelmed. The music is particularly 
 noteworthy in encapsulating the gaming atmosphere, but gamers must beware it is a strictly 'Emo' 
 affair and unfortunately no diagonal fringe gel is included. 
  
  The previously unpredictable handling of the Flatout series has been expelled in favour of distinctly 
 arcade handling, in which when you move the stick to the left, the car moves to the left, with 
 little friction or feedback. Its not anything special, but it feels good enough for a non simulation 
 title. The handling feels right, the damage effects on the cars are done well and the twelve AI 
 drivers are so angry that you'll be sure they have parenting issues. Drivers which previously felt 
 flat and unresponsive in prrior Flatout's are given new life in F: UC, where you will immediately 
 identify the most dangerous AI opponents to take out and those to leave alone to destroy themselves. 
 Drivers are given names and identifiable paint jobs so you will at least know who you are bumping 
 into a wall, it would be rude not! I swear if I ever run into Lei Bing (named AI Driver) in real 
 life I'm definitely going to steal her car keys, for her sake and my own. It is a nice touch and 
 further immerses the gamer into the crash experience. Another factor which aids the racing experience 
 are the Flatout environments which contain plenty of destructible race objects such as tires, planks 
 of wood, and after the first lap default locations they more across the track and are fully dynamic, 
 so if a car hits a red cone it will stay in the place it has been hit to, until the end of the 
 race, unless hit by another car. Unlike the last Flatout, the different weight of the objects is 
 much more varied this time and accurate. Running into these obstacles can give you boost but at 
 the same time stops momentum and can seriously through you off course. 
  
  The game play isn't perfect for example hitting a tire can flip your car multiple times, and on 
 the third lap of a four lap race, your anger at the game is considerable, but it will be dispelled 
 the next race when that kind of folly effects one of your competitors. The tracks can also at times 
 feel restrictive as despite the game encouraging you to find shortcut's there are places where 
 it will demand you return to the race track via the Y button. It is obvious why the developers 
 would need such a restriction but it is rigidly enforced, you either encourage the gamer to find 
 short cuts or don't have them at all.
  
  The online multi player is where F: UC really shines and is potentially the best reason to purchase 
 the game as you can drive against 8 other players in any of the games previously mentioned modes, 
 including destruction derby's. Laying waste to one of your friends in an arena littered with fallen 
 foes is brilliant, and should at least be experienced once by everyone on Live, lag isn't an issue 
 and as a whole it feels well coded and more importantly working, with few player drop outs. Unfortunately 
 there is no local multiplayer and that is a real shame, not even stunt mode can accommodate split 
 screen which is just plain odd. Surely players can take turns of flipping a seatbelt ignorant driver?
 
  
  F: UC is the culmination of the previous Flatout games from Bugbear, feeling much more like Flatout 
 2 than the original. As a result F: UC is a tried and tested formula and is a chance for 360 owner 
 to experience for themselves what they missed on last generation consoles and PC. It is a well 
 rounded product with multiple game modes and options, and despite interesting omissions is still 
 worth a look. If you enjoyed games like Destruction Derby, and arcade racers such as Sega Rally, 
 Flatout: Ultimate Carnage is definitely worth a look. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wildamnesia
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 18, 2008 9:21 am PT
Review:  Excellent game. The first racing game that I've played where the A. I opponents actually show signs 
 of intelligence and personality. Racing offline feels like you're racing online. Everyone fights 
 dirty and when take someone out they will go all out for revenge. I love that.
  
  The graphics are gorgeous and considering the amount of detail that's on screen it's a miracle 
 that the framerate never dips. Everything looks incredible and the physics are spot on. Pound for 
 pound, I would say this game is quite possibly the best-looking game on the Xbox 360.
  
  The reply mode is slightly disappointing though; there's no option to change the viewing angles 
 and you can't save them or take photos.
  
  The variety in the game is also impressive. There's a ton of things to do and smashing up your 
 car in a variety of different ways never gets boring - NEVER.
  
  If you think you've played this game already on the Xbox - think again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dryden555
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 17, 2008 12:23 pm PT
Review:  I've already played Flatout 2 on both PS2 and PC. Both were excellent games if you like over-the-top 
 arcade racing. The PC version had excellent hi-res graphics and playing the 360 version of the 
 game makes it clear they ported the PC version to this 360 game. The game not only looks great 
 on the 360, it plays at a non-stop fast framerate. The PS2 version was a heck of a lot of fun too 
 though the graphics were grainy even for a PS2 game.
  
  So how's the 360 version? If you havent already played Flatout 2 and you like arcade racing games 
 you really should try out the 360 downloadable demo. It gives you a good sense of what the game 
 offers.
  
  A few things annoyed me though. The added challenge modes in the 360 version are more frustrating 
 than fun. I've never been a fan of timed races in racing games and that's basically what this new 
 challenges are. It looks like the game developers wanted to add something new in order to give 
 the game a new title and they didnt try too hard to come up with anything interesting.
  
  The mini-games just dont do it for me. I love the racing parts of the main game but the mini-games 
 seem more based on luck than skill. The issue is that the physics of crashing your driver out of 
 your car to hit bowling pins sounds like fun, but there just isnt enough predictable accuracy in 
 these mini-games to feel like you are getting a score that is based on your skill.
  
  Many have commented that the cars handle "too floaty" but that was never an issue in any version 
 of these games for me. All you have to do is upgrade the parts on your car and the floaty issues 
 go away. Its really that simple. Upgrade your car and enjoy the fast racing and destructable environments. 
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Toyeboy
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 29, 2007 9:17 pm PT
Review:  I have nearly every racing game for the 360 and I have to say that this is THE funnest yet. I got 
 this thinking it'd just be okay since it got a 7.5 on here. Boy was I suprised. Very low score 
 b/c this game is simply amazing. 
  
  You start out with old ugly demolition cars that are highly detailed. You can choose from several 
 different modes, including race, carnage race, demolition derbys and several others. The races 
 and demolition modes are where this game shines. There are mini games in carnage mode where you 
 eject your driver out of your windshield and you score based upon the objective, such as skipping 
 him on the water like a rock... these modes are funny and a nice little break from the hardcore 
 racing action, but by no means are they the core of this game... not even close.
  
  The graphics, animations, and physics are what help make this game so incredible. Beautiful country 
 environments, excellent water, sunlight, smoke effects, and highly detailed cars with up to 12 
 cars in a race, ALL detailed superbly. The physics and damage modeling is some of the best I've 
 seen in a racing game. Your car may look great at the beginning of a race, but it will have it's 
 bumpers, doors, trunk and hood hanging by a thread by the end, if not scattered on the track already, 
 not to mention huge dents everywhere on your fenders. Tons of objects that you'll hit throughout 
 a race scatter everwhere all over the tracks and stay there the whole race. Fences, tires, bumpers, 
 glass... you name it, and it's probably an object you'll see flying through the air. The most incredible 
 part about this game, is the fact that the framerate is ROCK solid at all times, no slowdown, even 
 when all 12 cars are creating a huge cloud of dirt and debry, you won't see slowdown... this game 
 is just increbidle to see in motion, with everything that's happening on the screen at once. I 
 don't think the graphics could be any better. Simply beautiful!
  
  The cars handle like they should in my mind. Some complain they don't handle very good.... well 
 that's part of the gameplay. Think about it, your in an old beat up demolition car on a dirt track, 
 it's not going to handle like a Corvette on asphalt. If you find it hard at first, keep at it b/c 
 it's very rewarding and fun once you get the hang of it. You do have to use accurate breaking in 
 the sharp corners and in the dirt. The demoliton derbys are a blast for sure. It's pretty straight 
 forward, just hit the other cars and try not to get hit yourself, make them take the blow and not 
 you.
  
  If you are a racing fan, than you need to get this game! You can consider this a very credible 
 review, I don't hand out high scores without good reason. I've played nearly every racing game 
 for 360, and this game really sticks out as one of, if not the best, out of all of them. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: flippy1008
Rating: 3.5
Date: Dec 27, 2007 1:46 pm PT
Review:  I was playing this the other day, and going, what the hell. 8000 destructable items on the track 
 is cool, but they are constantly annoying. They slow you down, they make you fall to last place. 
 Actually that raises a very important point. The game is bloody difficult, and you dont get the 
 choice of changing difficulty, so it took me two days to do 5 cups in the first Flatout mode. Its 
 very hard. The fun looking stunts are one of the hardest modes, although carnage and deathmatch 
 derby are the easiest, if there is an easiest. Split Screen would have done the game proud, cos 
 everyone gets sick of the stunt mode, and it really doesn; t show flatout as racing game as much 
 as a dummy throughing game. We all used to have one, and now its time to spit out and strike a 
 10 in the bowling alley with it.
  - Good Point - Lots to destruct, Sense of Speed
  - Bad Point - Long load times, Hating buying cars, extremely hard (being a true street and track 
 racer and all) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bobmcjim189
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 8, 2007 4:24 am PT
Review:  First of all,
  This game will peeve you off first time you play the championship.
  Arcade races are insanely easy, but when you goto the flat out mode - WHAM - FLIP - CRASH - BOOM 
 And you throw your controller out the window. You will restart like 10 times a race.
  But you will turn your xbox off for an hour, and come back for more, it's extremly addictive, and 
 you will want more and more and more.
  Here I gave it a 5/10.
  
  The graphics are insane,8000 objects per track!
  But a little barrel that you roll over will 
 send you packing.
  4/10
  The sound is nothing special, but it never gets old.
  7/10
  The cars don't have much difference, derby cars are stable but slow, Race cars are fast and always 
 flip, Street cars are insanely fast and unstable.
  8/10
  Arcade Races are fun. but you'll find your always in the lead, derbies are really fun, stunts are 
 fun but sometimes frustrating.
  9/10
  
  A must buy if your a arcade racer fan!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jojowonderdog
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 29, 2007 6:33 am PT
Review:  I never thought I would hear myself saying this about a game, but if you stay clear of the main 
 mode then you will have a blast with Flatout. 
  
  Unfortunately the off-road racing is simply frustrating and not actually fun. But if you mix it 
 with the other minigames and stunts in the Carnage Mode then you realise that Flatout is a game 
 that will last you hours and hours in single player and then gives you even more when your mates 
 come round to play the Stunt mode. 
  
  I hate to compare this game to Burnout Revenge, but it's difficult not to. Although Flatout is 
 great in its own right, so many of the components are the same and unfortunatley it doesn't quite 
 match up to the thrill of BR. As much as I love it, I couldn't help wish that it had the same satisfying 
 drift movement as its on-road counterpart. 
  
  And this is where the main criticism lies. So much more could have been made of this game if time 
 had been spent tweaking the handling of the cars and bringing the graphics (mainly in the minigames/stunts) 
 up to date. Even when you really get into the game, you cant help but notice the PS2 style blocks 
 that bleed into each other and just lazy texture wrapping.
  
  Having said all that, i'm not sorry I got this game. I picked it up used from ebay for around 15 
 ($30) in mint condition. And for that amount of money, I could not be happier. If you own Burnout 
 Revenge then you may not want to have such a similar game in your collection. It works for me though. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AssassinExDeus
Rating: 5.5
Date: Nov 10, 2007 1:37 pm PT
Review:  I am a Flatout nerd! I owned the original for the PC and played it for almost a year. Confused? 
 
  
  If your going to get this game DO NOT get it for the racing end. Apart from its fun crashing physics 
 and cool mini games the game is HARD and when you yell you make even a sailor blush.
  
  The gameplay has three types really. Racing which is divided into various types like racing to 
 win, racing for points... etc. This is very hard since you always fly off the track and die constantly 
 and lose thanks to rubber band AI and physics like a Ice Skating rink. Demolition Derby which some 
 people handle easily and others fail miserably at. And finally the minigames. The best part of 
 the series. 
  
  You drive down various themed games like bowling and just as you hit the end launch your "ragdoll" 
 guy (or girl) out the windshield and towards giant bowling pins! You can flop once in midair for 
 some more height! The mini games are so much fun because every thing makes you yell "OWWWW that 
 had to hurt!".
  
  The controls are pretty easy so no complaints here.
  
  The music and sound are nothing amazing. The breaking bone sound is fun though. It never gets old.
 
  
  The graphics are good, but a little outdated. The games draw is obviously its physics. You can 
 literally destroy everything you smash into! Blow things up, run them over, drive through them! 
 Its a blast! 
  
  Overall the games only fun if you want to screw around with once again... the physics and the mini 
 games. Other then that don't get it. Not to mention you have to unlock everything which is a major 
 pain. So cheats come in handy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sherif77
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 6, 2007 5:25 pm PT
Review:  Okay so I've gotten my 360, I want to fix my need for speed..... like right NOW. Okay so I buy Need 
 for Speed Most Wanted. Pop it in, get a hold of the control, and get hugely disappointed. Its nothing 
 like Hot Pursuit. So can that one on Ebay, than hear they are coming up with Carbon, I'm like WHOOOOOO 
 go out buy pop it in, DAME it sucks more than Most wanted. FOOOOOORZA, I'm like YES THANK U GOD 
 I go out buy the game enjoy it for a month love the drawing section of it that took most of my 
 time cause racing was very unforgiving. I know ppl love to race but being so realistic to the point 
 were u get tapped in the back bumper online sends u flying side way into donut city got old very 
 fast. A few month pass and I hear about this game in one of the Magazines. Surprisingly this game 
 doesn't get much coverage at all, which is a real shame cause its a blast to play. Lets start with 
 what the game does right. Lots of cars, 4 classes for racing. Head on racing, Derby, Death Derby, 
 Stunts, and All is also available online at LAG free racing for up to 8 players. WICKED. I dreamt 
 of 6 players on Nascar 05 and never got it even in Nascar 08 (thanks EA) .
  This game also does one thing very right, FUN. when the leader takes u out he will be taken out 
 just like u did later on by a human player or by the environment. Game is well balanced that you 
 keep racing till the end. Last place can still win it. So ur money is well spent on this game u 
 will have LOTS and LOTS of fun.
  
  Now the bad things. We would have loved a bit more of customization for the cars. I always think 
 to myself if i have a Microsoft gaming system, and a Microsoft Windows PC, why not give me the 
 option to import any type of skin I would like into the game?? Someone in the gaming industry must 
 come up with this idea sooner or later on this system please. Forza would have been great with 
 such an option in it instead of spending hours to make a picture on the cars. That is a + for Microsoft 
 that they should focus on.
  Another thing the game could have done is give the characters in the game voices and some personality 
 to match the art work. I love the wallpaper in the loading screen but I get no reaction out of 
 them when I pump them on the track, or after the race. Something that Road Rash did on PS1 years 
 ago. I also would have love to make up my driver instead of getting the default from the game. 
 Over all the game is GREAT. I would love for them to keep it the way it is and away from EA and 
 their Burn Out games. This one here is great the way it is. The control is great, the graphic is 
 great, car models with damage is amazing. Just keep it the way it is and add more tracks, more 
 personality and maybe a few more speed ways with drafting would be great as well, and give us Flat 
 out 3 Soon, we will all love it even more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mistwaver1985
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 5, 2007 4:40 pm PT
Review:  Flatout: Ultimate Carnage is just as the title reads, ultimate carnage. It's a destructive online 
 racer with a mix of demolition derby and race modes. Nearly everything in the environments is destructable. 
 At first it seems cool, but after the first couple hours of gameplay it seems more of a nuiscence.
 
  
  There are four game types. Flatout, Carnage, Single Race and Online. In Flatout mode you pick a 
 starting car and compete in cups to earn credits. There are several ways to earn these credits. 
 Winning cups, and dominating your opponents. This includes fastest lap, biggest hits, bulldozer 
 (whoever destroys the most of the environment) and so on. With these credits you buy better vehicles 
 and upgrade them to be able to be competitive in the higher level cups until the game ends. That's 
 all there is to it. There also seems to be no incentive to play the single player. Everything is 
 instantly available in multiplayer -- the unlocks you gain in the single player game is for the single 
 race mode. Seems kind of pointless -- you'd think it would be the other way around. While it starts 
 out fun, about half way through the game, you begin to grow tired of the AI thinking they are stuck 
 in demolition derby mode. With the AI slamming into you left and right like you are in a demolition 
 derby, it doesn't take long to quit and go play online against more knowledgeable opponents who 
 understand how the mode you are playing is to be played.
  
  Carnage mode allows you to compete in a bunch of events that puts you in a pre selected car for 
 you to compete in. As you perform in events you earn points, and these points unlock newer events. 
 Similar to how Kudos unlocks new cars in PGR.
  
  And then there is online. The core of the game. There's not much to be said here except that this 
 is where the game shines. It's absolutely addictive. Even more addictive when you make friends 
 and play with them. So much fun it will make you late for work.
  
  The game looks absolutely stunning. It supports up to 1080p resolution, but even in 720p the game 
 is jaw-droppingly beautiful. Flashy special effects, and crispy textures make this game stand out 
 from the other Xbox 360 racing games -- and not to mention, with no jaggies. The smoke and dirt add 
 an extra challenge. The sound is decent. Not the best sounds in a racing game, but they do their 
 job. You know, the same sounds you hear in every other racing game. Engines, tires, and crashes.
 
  
  If there is anything I don't like about Flatout: UC, I would have to say it's the AI. Even as frusterating 
 as it is to be cruising around and to hit a piece of fence laying in the road sending your front 
 end flying in the air and off the track, all of that doesn't come close to matching the annoyance 
 of the AI in Flatout: Ultimate Carnage. Even with 3 different types of racing -- Derby, Racing, and 
 more racing, the AI thinks you are always in Derby mode. And they are bad wreckers. The physics 
 glitches that has been around since the original Flatout only make it more annoying.
  
  What it boils down to is if you're looking for a run addictive game to play online, Flatout: Ultimage 
 Carnage is a fine choice -- if you are looking for something with some customization, and a single 
 player worth playing -- then don't waste your money. Wait for Need for Speed: Pro Street and get 
 that instead. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shadygeneral
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 23, 2007 4:46 am PT
Review:  AAARRRRGGGHHHHH - sorry had to get that out of the way first. Tackle this game at your own risk 
 - loss of sanity may occur to people who arent calm. May cost you many control pads. Right I have 
 finaly got gold on everything. I can now say that the word frustration is made because of this 
 game. When I first played it it was easily a 9/10 game. Loads of fun - lots of cars on track, the 
 environment breaks away satisfyingly &amp; 1000s of trackside stuff to ram thorugh that acts OTT 
 &amp; is a brilliant spectacle. The car defromation is also pretty cool &amp; love the aggresive 
 racing. Then I did the first champiionship - the difficulty suddenly spikes, all the opponents 
 are cheating bar stewards &amp; you will be restarting races quicker than ever. You see if you 
 dont get in first place within the first half of lap one they gain an unatainable lead where its 
 impossible to catch up. so if you crash in the first corner pile up - which will happen many time 
 - hit the restart button. you will spend many hours going over the same part over &amp; over again 
 in frustration. The only redeeming feature being theres no loading times after a restart. Then 
 you hit carnage mode - lots of variety here taking pleasure in destruction - all good yeah? NO. 
 The destruction Derbies get near impossible as do the beat the bombs - especialy the last track. 
 Which you will do mainly from luck. The car will flip or it wont - its a gamble as it does sometimes 
 but a retry on the same run will have you doing 20 flips causing instant fail. Even though you 
 did nothing diferent. All this frustration knocked it down to a 4/10. However I must be a glutton 
 for punishment because i couldnt stop coming back for more. I have no idea how it made me but it 
 did &amp; now its all 100% I can go back to just having fun on it. Now im not taking it seriously 
 anymore Im just having a good time &amp; its just great fun. Never enjoyed a racing game so much. 
 If only they had sorted the difficulty out it could have been so much better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: johnfrusciantex
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 21, 2007 1:06 pm PT
Review:  Remember Flatout? How innovative and fun it was? How ambitious and new? Well Flatout 2 is the same. 
 Without the innovative, new quality to it. The Pro: Better graphics, if that. Party mode is still 
 fun, though too repetitive. The Con: Nothing new. Not as fun, or destructive as hoped. Same enviroments. 
 Repetitive, NO MULTIPLAYER RACING MODE.
  
  Overall: Just rent it if you feel so compelled. Its okay when your playing party mode with a few 
 friends. So it has some plus to it. Just don't buy it. Wait for something like... I don't know im 
 not the race game type. Just wait for something better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PlaTiNuM24k
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 17, 2007 7:37 am PT
Review:  I've been a fan of this game series since the first one, even though i didn't get into the first 
 one the much cause if was pretty blah, not much to it all. Number 2 made up for that mistake, making 
 the racing alot for fun and the crashes alot more hilarious do to. Especially with the new game 
 and stunt modes. I never beat number 2 but me and my friends had a blash with what cars we had 
 and just hitting the **** out of each other and laugh when we'd miss etc. etc.
  
  Ultimate Carnage really stepped it up a bit. Taking after 2 in many ways such as most of the game 
 modes, and the character name and what their rides are. They also have alot, if not all of the 
 original tracks from number 2, plus with the addition of new ones i have not seen before. But with 
 this Flatout, alot has changed, the added carnage mode, 4 new racers and that adds even more carnage 
 to be had, 12 ppl on the track, @$$-kicking fiesta lol, and believe me, that is exactly what I 
 did. Reack havoc to all nomality lol. They have all the original stunts but they hade them all 
 tougher, which is good cause I like the challange. I don't know if there are any new ones yet I'm 
 still going through flatout mode.
  
  The Only real thing I would change about this game is some of the racers AI, seems like most times 
 you get a couple of characters that are front-runners as i call them, drivers that get way ahead 
 and make it hard to rack up alot of wrecking credits cause then you have to chase them down if 
 there is even enough time to do so. That makes it difficult to have any fun, but the derbys calmed 
 me down and took my anger out on them.
  
  I'm looking forward to finishing this game and seeing what multiplayer and split screen play has 
 to offer, i'm really glad i picked this game up cause i was skeptical at first. Way to go guys, 
 keep it up! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pojala
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 12, 2007 12:52 am PT
Review:  Flatout U. C. is the Xbox360 version of Flatout, the whole series, or maybe rather Flatout at its 
 finest. It brings fairly little over Flatout2, and I'd assume this is quite intentional. Don't 
 break what's already working. It does bring a bunch of new stuff over FO2, but quite clearly the 
 target group is us Xbox360 owners, who never had a Xbox1 to play FO2 on. Maybe we could take that 
 claim even a step further and say that it is for all of us who so far never played Flatout at all. 
 And what a brilliant introduction to Flatout it is.
  
  Flatout is a brand of top notch arcade racing, concentrating on wrecking the cars, and unlike other 
 games in the series, wrecking also the track. While the Burnout series concentrate on a max top 
 speed, and does a great job doing that, demolition and thereby race dynamics is the focus of Flatout. 
 The physics model is not that realistic, it is rather tuned for just fun game play. But it is a 
 genuinely functional physics model, unlike the Burnout series, where the race cars feel like moving 
 on a train track and in race collisions or 'take outs' feel like scripted in advance. In Flatout 
 UC all car damage, track damage and pretty neat AI sum up to an infinite amount of outcomes of 
 the same race, just as it should be. And again, it's not always realistic, but still in a way credible, 
 and above all tuned to offer the max amount of fun.
  
  So how does the wrecking work? It works great, both for cars and tracks. Cars have so many breaking 
 parts, both for the pleasure of your eye and also for affecting the actual driving model. But that 
 is pretty much standard for arcade racers. The Flatout value has always been in wrecking the tracks. 
 There are hundreds, thousands if not tens of thousands of dynamic objects on the tracks, all waiting 
 to be smashed into and spread out across the track for the other driver's misery. Many times you 
 suffer from it yourself too, when you pass the spot on your next lap. But this you seldom think 
 about, as there is so much of that stuff - everywhere. Then again, you want to smash into that 
 stuff, because it so cool and you get some more nitro for every yet untouched object (or tens of 
 them) you run into.
  
  The cars are as they should, good physics, from light and fast to heavy and durable. Maybe the 
 basic available cars could be varied more, and the car dynamics really get interesting only online, 
 when you enable all bonus cars too. I'll tell you more about online later in this text. The driving 
 model is simply rewarding, not too hard or realistic, but still a genuine driving model. After 
 spending so much time with the Burnout series, the driving model really stands out in Flatout UC, 
 and makes the Burnout driving model feel like old Lemans for C64.
  
  While the single player career is inspiring, suitably hard and quite rewarding, it would still 
 be only half a game without the online part - which is fantastic! I don't recall a single Xbox 
 Live game that could give you a brilliant online gaming experience even with just 10 minutes spent 
 from turning on the console to shut down. I personally prefer the race modes, but as some gamers 
 find those challenging, there is so much more to choose from. Many times online, there are more 
 demolition derbys ongoing than races. The derby's are a true cherry on top of the Flatout UC cake, 
 just race around headless and run into the other players until you are the only one left with a 
 car that moves. There are also refined gaming modes, like death match style derbies, where you 
 collect frags and are resurrected when once killed. And last but not least, you can also play online 
 the party games.
  
  Party games is another characteristic for the Flatout series, what makes it stand out from all 
 other arcade racers out there. Choose a car, select a stunt, race down the acceleration strip, 
 and launch your driver through the windshield for: high jump, ski jump, bowling, curling and many 
 many more different hilarious minigames. These party games are genuinely of Super Monkey Ball caliber.
 
  
  Sum all this up, and a true classic is born. But please remember, don't do like most reviewers 
 and compare this to Flatout2, as it brings little over that almost a year earlier launched Xbox1 
 version. Rate it as is, as a fresh new experience for Xbox360 owners, which it is to most consumers 
 buying it. My bet is that you will then rate it higher than my 9.0 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spoox78
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 7, 2007 10:43 pm PT
Review:  The re-release of FlatOut 2 with some additional content and online multiplayer has all of the 
 elements of a great fake racer. Unfortunately, almost everything in the game is designed to make 
 you feel cheated. The graphics are nothing to complain about, if you don't mind the same three 
 settings constantly repeated for all the racing events. All the track have been given facelifts, 
 and are now very crisp, seamless, and pleasing to the eye. The framerate is rock solid, no matter 
 how many cars, explosions, scenery objects, and road effects are going on at the same time. Cars 
 steadily shed their parts as they beat each other down , and it can be funny crossing the finish 
 line on three wheels. Sound is a mixed bag for me here. The crunching and scraping of cars is nice, 
 and the sound of opponents being thrown through their windshields is even better. The soundtrack, 
 however, has been washed out since the original FlatOut2. Gone are Papa Roach, Nickleback, Rob 
 Zombie, and Yellow Card. Instead you now get a bunch of wannabe, sound-alike punkers and rockers 
 that leave each track indistinguishable from each other and are entirely uninspired, save for Ditch 
 Kitty. Bring your custom soundtracks with you for this one. The actual game is where I lopped of 
 most of the my score for this game. On the plus side, the controls have been greatly tightened 
 since FlatOut 2. It feels less like piloting a hovercraft and more like driving an automobile now. 
 Also, the loading times are quite short and when restarting there is no loading whatsoever. Unfortunately, 
 that is where the refinements stopped. Bugbear left every single cheating mechanism they had in 
 Flatout 2, and that game rewrote the book on this. First off, every single race in the entire game 
 has you starting out in last place (12th) , no matter if you took gold or didn't finish the last 
 race. Just once it would be nice to even just start off somewhere in the middle, for diversities' 
 sake if anything. On the whole, 9 out of the 11 CPU drivers could give a hoot about winning; they 
 just want to hold you up so that the designated winner (usually the new country cowboy Lei Bing) 
 can get ahead as she races a flawless race. This leaves the game feeling like a constant 11-on-1 
 instead of a free-for-all race. As you play the eternal game of catch-up, you'll follow other drivers 
 as they plow through unthinkable amounts of junk that litter each track; they almost never lose 
 speed. You hit a tin can the wrong way, and you lose 30 KPH off your speed. Said tin can also has 
 the uncanny ability to absolutely -launch- your car into the air and you have to watch all the 
 other cars pass you as you do an inexplicable series of cartwheels, barrel rolls, and roof slides. 
 This happens less and less as you progress, but it can make the first 1/3 of the game very frustrating. 
 One thing that never stops in the invisible magnet that follows you throughout the game. Every 
 time anything goes slightly wrong, you have about a 87% chance of attracting this magnet (percentage 
 taken from in-game testing) . The magnet is perfectly in tune with the front of your car. It is 
 totally confounding and unforgivable the amount of times you end up facing backwards. No matter 
 how fast or slow your spin, whether you do nothing, turn into or opposite the spin, you'll be backwards. 
 You'll even get to watch your car suddenly stop in the middle of a mad spin and go the other way 
 so that you -perfectly-, each time, face exactly backwards. Now you can take the time to turn around 
 again and again, or use the game's extremely punishing restart button, Sure you get a rolling start, 
 but somehow those racers that were leagues behind you are suddenly in front of you again. They 
 think you won't notice with the screen flashing white, but you see it. The extra singe-player content 
 takes form the new Carnage mode, a blatant FlatOut ripoff of Need For Speed's challenge sheet. 
 You are given a specific car and must complete the task at hand. This is where the horrifyingly 
 dull stunts from FlatOut 2 have been moved. Same stunts, same bore, although the music now plays 
 in full force instead of being tinned into 1950's stadium speakers. It's not just stunts, though, 
 now there are deathmatch derbies (like normal but cars have less HP and there are power-ups to be 
 collected) , Beat the Bomb (timed checkpoint races) , and Carnage Races. There are some gems to be 
 found here, like the derby you get to man a big rig and the gold medal in attainable only through 
 fragging the other drivers DOZENS of times, or the carnage race you get to drive a school bus that 
 is an absolute powerhouse and must have a turbine engine under the hood. However, the cheating 
 factor slowly build up as you advance and culminates at the final Carnage race - a race that is 
 so unfair that any court in any jurisdiction would rule it cruel and unusual punishment. The only 
 way to truly score the 100,000 points before time runs out is car-bashing your opponents, and they 
 know that your multiplier is based on current position. For this race everyone is in a car that 
 can exceed 300 KPH. However, you are constantly thrown into a void between racers. If you chase 
 the car (s) in front, you'll put so much distance between the cars behind that you'll never see 
 them again. If you slow down to below 100, they will too. It's like I said before: they don't even 
 act like they care about winning (no matter what their bios say on the loading screens) , and just 
 work collectively to screw you over. All that being said, the game is still somehow at times, thanks 
 to the good sense of speed and - It's just too bad that most of the time winning is more of a thank 
 goodness I don't have to do that again!' than not. Finally, the multiplayer. Here is the biggest 
 saving grace of the game. Since you are racing real people instead of cheap, cheating drones, the 
 game is balanced out and skills are met with skills. You can play any of the game's modes and can 
 set the cars to varying degrees of tuning presets. Lag is minimal and tensions quickly rise as 
 you throw each other through windows of deparment stores or pummel each other to oblivion in deathmatch. 
 While every other fake/arcade racer out there is selling out (Need for Speed, Burnout) , it's nice 
 to see some are still sticking to their guns. If you don't mind putting up with some blatantly 
 absurd cheatingm the single player FlatOut Ultimate Carnage can be fun at times. With a serviceable 
 multiplayer setup and some shining moments in both FlatOut and Carnage modes, Flatout: UC would 
 be a great choice to buy used. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fildo8000
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 7, 2007 2:27 pm PT
Review:  The multiplayer racing is the best around. If you haven't played this game online or networked, 
 then you are missing one of the best multiplayer experiences out there. Because of the reward system, 
 you are never out of the race. The physics based world is the perfect sandbox to allow for some 
 of the craziest high speed action you have ever seen. I experienced no lag with online play even 
 in international races. The graphics are some of the best on the 360. The courses are designed 
 well and the graphics are so crisp that you can see details even when you are at full speed. This 
 actually helps you see where you are going as opposed to some other games that blur the environment 
 when you hit the nitro. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Supertoast_GT
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 7, 2007 2:37 am PT
Review:  The good: * Plenty of things to do online and offline.
  * Graphics are much improved from Flatout 2.
  * Online gameplay is a blast! so many things to 
 do!
  * A $50 price tag!
  
  The bad:
  
  * Connection drops can be frequent on wrong router/modem setups.
  * The game's soundtrack could 
 use an overhaul. (Break out the custom soundtracks!)
  * Not alot of people playing this. Needs more players.
  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
 Flatout: Ultimate Carnage is easily one of the best racers of the year. Like past games in the 
 series, it is more than just a racer. It is a demolition derby-ing, ragdolling, high speed racing 
 machine. Gameplay wise, Flatout UC plays almost identically to it's predicessors. There is the 
 standard mode where you complete races to unlock cars, tracks ect... There is the stunt mode with 
 the familliar ragdoll stunts we all know and love such as the high jump, baseball, bowling, and 
 others. It's a nice place to relieve frustration from the races, and they realy never get old...
 
  
  As far as sound goes, it sounds like a typical racer, tire screaches, crashes, Explosions are all 
 great, although the screams of the unfortunate drivers have gotten a bit old. It's the same screams 
 you hear in low budget films and cartoons. The soundtrack has gone back to nothing but rock music 
 from artists no one has heard of, and they replay alot. Not alot of songs in the soundtrack. One 
 of them has so much sensoring from language that you will instantly hit the back button for the 
 next track, so bust out some custom tunes if you have them...
  
  The graphics have improved considerably since Flatout 2. Though it's running on the same engine, 
 and it's a port, it was extreamly well done. A rare find in a port. The framerate stays high and 
 persistant, there are far more physical objects waiting to be scatterd all over the track, and 
 there are around fourty objects that can come off each car, and they do so nicely. Allthough the 
 hood, and other objects can be right in your line of sight if you are in a first person view. It's 
 usually funny though.
  
  The online modes have drastically improved over Flatout 2. Everything can be played online this 
 time. Up to eight players. It is smooth and lag free for the most part. Due to higher packet rates 
 over the network, some routers and modems will see your online match as a DOS (Denial Of Service) 
 attack and disconnect you from the match at any time. I had this issue until I got a firmware update 
 on my router. An arguable problem with UC's online mode is the stunts. All players run the stunt 
 mode at the same time, with you solid, and the other players represented as ghosts. This is a problem 
 because you can't really watch them do the stunts. All you have to go on is the stats after the 
 match. But on the other hand, eight players doing long stunts such as bowling, one by one, would 
 be time consuming. So a turn based option would be nice. Also, there is no real offline multiplayer. 
 No system link, no splitscreen. There is a party mode for stunts where you pass the controller 
 each turn, but it's just not the same.
  
  Sure, the preblems soud like they would put you off from buying it, but trust me, once you play 
 it, you will have a blast!
  
  Plenty of tracks, plenty of cars, and a lot to do. Flatout UC is a must buy for any fan of the 
 racing genre.
  
  I don't know why Gamespot isn't reviewing this yet though... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thomass60r
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 25, 2007 8:29 pm PT
Review:  Flatout was what i was expecting huge crashes stunning graphics hugely fun online but is this enough 
 to make flatout a must buy?
  
  Well its cheap only &pound;25 and it looks better than lots of other 360 games.
  the career can 
 really frustrate you with AI trying to run you of the track and too many things in your way. The 
 cars handle ok but they feel to heavy and most handle terribly and this start to make flatout seem 
 more slow paced compared to burnout because the cars dont do hugely high top speed and you cant 
 go flying around corners but the graphics are perfect and the amount of carnage on the track is 
 huge who needs burnout or any other racer anymore.
  
  The multiplayer
  
  lots of game modes derbys are fun as hell but the mp can get old.
  
  party mode
  a laugh 
 nuff said
  
  verdict
  fantastic racer but its not the best but still a good fun racer thats worth its purchase 
::::::

::::::
UserName: charley_mcd
Rating: 5.5
Date: Sep 4, 2007 1:12 pm PT
Review:  I got this game with my 360 and I dont think I would of got it for full retail price.
  
  Graphics:8/10 really good graphics and cool effects. The destructible enviroment is also a cool 
 touch but it can get aggrivating. The car models are fun i. e school bus, mob car etc but they arent 
 very detailed. altough most of the time they end up wrecked anyway so it dosent matter!
  
  Gameplay:6/10 Tight controls but the destructable enviroment is a real pain in the ass. Imagine 
 A load of dead elephants dumped onto the track and your forced to drive through them, yeh, not very 
 fun. The AI is smart at the beggining but later on they almost turn kamakaze like-they constantly 
 smash you and keep getting in your way. Upgrading your car is OK but you end up getting the same 
 results anyway so it really is pointless
  
  Sound:5/10 Heavy metal and rock play throughout the game. personally I only like two of them and 
 the others can get repetitive (love that word) .
  
  Story:1/10 There is no story (boo!) but in a pathetic attempt to keep you in the game they gave the 
 characters your racing, names and backstories. It dosent play any part in the actual game so it 
 really is pointless
  
  Online:8/10 playing online is really fun. its a good community and there are plenty of modes to 
 play with friends or strangers. There is hardly any lag to date which keep this online shiny and 
 smooth.
  
  Overall not my type of game but its not like I hate it. And I'd rather have it than not have it. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SUICIDAL_IDIOT
Rating: 9.3
Date: Aug 15, 2007 7:33 am PT
Review:  i usually dont like racing games but this got my attension as the crashes were so great that it 
 did'nt matter that i dont like racing games as the high speed nitro was a thing to be rewarded 
 for my crashes. one of the great parts is but can sometimes be anoying is when i hit a bit stone 
 and go spirling out of control in the air. the mini games stunts are fun for a certain amount of 
 time but when you play them. and on flat out mode it is fun as it is quite easy to get second or 
 first and you feel so good when you unlock new maps and places to derby on or race on. so get the 
 game if you love crashes with racing games combine. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: InsaneBasura
Rating: 9.1
Date: Aug 12, 2007 4:17 pm PT
Review:  The first Flatout was pretty fun and showed promise with its focus destructible scenery. But the 
 series was in its infancy and it ended up feeling a bit sparse and simple. The game design was 
 improved for Flatout 2, which felt like a more complete game. And with Ultimate Carnage, Bugbear 
 has finally delivered on the aforementioned promise.
  
  Which is kind of weird since it's basically Flatout 2.5 and I thought I'd think it was a waste 
 of time.
  
  Instead I think that Flatout: Ultimate Carnage is one of the best arcade racers ever. Especially 
 with a suiting custom soundtrack (OS is kinda of sleazy) and one of the hood views. I've found 
 that rock and blues works pretty well. The Hellacopters - Before The Fall is a perfect match as 
 you fly like a bat out of hell, ramming opponents into trees with a constant flood of fences, benches 
 and other random crap getting scattered all around you. The last time I grinned so much and so 
 stupidly was probably the first time I played Burnout 3. But the difference between Burnout and 
 Flatout is that everything in Flatout feels dynamic and unpredictable, while Burnout feels rigid 
 and sterile in comparison. And repetitive and boring. When you cause a spectacular stunt or crash 
 in Flatout it feels like it happened due to a combination of different gameplay dynamics and your 
 driving rather than a simplistic physics model where the opponent magically wrecks when you hit 
 him hard enough. Example.
  Can't remember the name of the track, but there's this ramp you can risk going over to score some 
 nitro. I say risk because it's kinda dificult to control your car while airborne, you kinda can't. 
 Plus (depending on your view I guess) you can't see what's on the other side. Which is where the 
 random freaky stunt comes in. So there I was, minding my own business racing over the ramp at crazy 
 speeds, sailing through the air. Just before I land I see a car wrecking, rolling and flying over 
 my windshield, just inches away from making contact. It was probably more awesome than it sounds.
 
  
  I don't know what the AI did to wreck at that precise moment, but it made for a moment of random 
 crazy fun. **** like that happens. It's more involved, more alive, more emotional, more fun. Yes 
 indeed, as far as I'm concerned it's Burnout's time to play catch-up.
  
  Another reason for that, which a lot of people seem to either forget to mention or perhaps don't 
 even notice, is the AI. Everyone just talks about physics this and damage that, but the AI in this 
 game is f-ing crazy. Literally. The best example would be this one encounter from the demo.
  
  Was next to an opponent and decided it'd be neat to push him off the track, and so I did. Sadly 
 I managed to crash head on into a bus while doing so. I reset the car and drove off. Wait a minute, 
 wasn't that car driving the wrong way? So after the race I checked out the replay to see what that 
 was all about. Turns out the guy got real pissed after I pushed him off-road. When he got back 
 on the track he actually turned the car around, mauled through a row of benches and headed straight 
 for me. He misjudged my car's acceleration when I drove off, realized he was gonna miss and pulled 
 the handbrake, did a damn 180 and barely missed my bumper. It was just pure crazy bananas. I still 
 can't believe he did that. Wish you could save the replays. Stupid Bugbear.
  
  Another thing that deserves to be mentioned is the equally crazy graphics. I have a 55 HDTV, meaning 
 whatever flaws and imperfections there may be will be magnified. Perhaps I'm distracted by the 
 incredible amounts of stuff going on at the same time, but I can't bloody find any. In fact I find 
 myself pausing the replays just cause it looks so damn good. The lighting is occasionally amazing. 
 What makes it even more impressive is the aforementioned amount of things going on at once, there 
 are 12 cars rampaging through the tracks, tossing debris and particles all over the place, and 
 the framerate never ever drops. The only thing that's kind of bad is that it's locked at 30FPS 
 rather than 60FPS. But in the grand scheme of things that's very forgivable. I have played Motorstorm 
 and the DIRT demo, they both pale in comparison.
  
  Granted it does have a couple of minor flaws (can't save replays (patch please?) , bit crap OS, 
 bit difficult) but it's nowehere near enough to counter the amount of pure awesome it contains. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: uglybob80
Rating: 9.4
Date: Aug 10, 2007 2:11 pm PT
Review:  I had got pretty tired with Dirt after only a couple of weeks and so sold it on. I had Project 
 Gotham Racing 3 and that did me a while but I felt I needed another challenge.
  I spotted Flatout and noticed those words that lit my eyes Destruction Derby . That was one of 
 my favourite games for the PS1 but it had some annoying flaws. I have went online with this game 
 and suffered no lag whatsoever, great fun playing against people.
  The other modes is a Career mode which will take you a while and Carnage Mode which I could best 
 describe as a dive in and have fun challenges. Some of the challenges are inspired. The stuntman 
 is used to propel into dartboards, knock down bowling pins, shoot into the net in soccer, punted 
 over for a field goal and a couple of others. The Destruction Derbies are my favourite though and 
 these are varied as they pre supply you with a vehicle so you cant choose. The hardest derby is 
 when they give you the lightest car against meatier machines. I got the game on Monday and I have 
 found it hard to put down. It is not a graphical masterpiece by any stretch of the imagination 
 but you just wont care and it is fun and challenging. I chose the learning curve to be 2 to 4 hours 
 as even after looking at the tutorials in the carnage mode stuntman, its takes a few tries to figure 
 out the best way to propel your man.
  Buy this game, you wont be disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gizzuk
Rating: 8.8
Date: Aug 3, 2007 4:09 pm PT
Review:  After playing the oh-so serious forza 2, which to be quite honest wasnt my cup of tea i decided 
 to splash out on flatout for the 360 after playing the first two versions on PC. Again i wasnt 
 dissapointed, the races are neva ever dull, and as for the fantastic mini games, well me and my 
 mates have already had our share of fun out of the crazy stunts. The graphics are top notch, and 
 the smashes look awesome, as do watching the replays. The career mode offers plenty of racing fun 
 while the new carnage mode is great too! Overall i love this game, just non stop fun from start 
 to finish. Highly recommended 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xdsk
Rating: 7.8
Date: Aug 2, 2007 5:50 am PT
Review:  After spending a fair few hours playing this game I was very impressed with the graphics and the 
 destruction animations, furthermore I enjoyed the varied track type and destructible environments.
 
  
  I personally feel that the physics employed within the destructible environments is this games 
 only major flaw, im constantly frustrated at hitting a small chair or bin and careening out of 
 control (when seconds earlier the AI racers just cruise right over them)
  
  I was very impressed with the carnage mode, which reminded me of the Destruction derby franchise 
 on the PS.
  
  The mini games within carnage mode are inspired, from the High Jump to Curling all are excellent 
 fun but require a bit of practice to perfect.
  
  Overall a very good arcade racer with a lot to offer (lets hope they patch up the physics glitches) 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TWOC2689
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 26, 2007 7:37 am PT
Review:  I wasn't a fan of the first Flatout but then the second one came out and again I wasn't bowled 
 over too buy it. But when I looked at the price when it came out I thought hmmmm and I knew nothing 
 was coming out until August I picked it up paid for it and when I got home I played it within about 
 3 minutes and thought that it was just the simplest game to play but gave such a result.
  
  Graphics- the Graphics are Outstanding and easily competes with DiRT the thing that Dirt hasn't 
 got in the graphical department it Color. The color in this game is bright, lush and really inviting.
 
  
  Controls-controls are so easy but it is a treat to be able to power slide around the corner. The 
 one problem I found was that the X button is used to change the camera but this is easy to over 
 come.
  
  Game play- When you think of arcade racing game you think easy, fun, none threatening and quick. 
 Well Flatout takes these but it into a car chucks it off a cliff pulls it out and gives it a good 
 slap on the back and a beer. This is just carnage in a familiar environment with a rewarding result. 
 When you first play you think Yeeeeeehhhhhhaaaaaa but ten you get the slighted bump for some one 
 and you quickly turn into a psychopathic killer. One aspect I liked was the idea to put character 
 in it with their pictures I like it because I want to see that Im Ramming Paris Hiltons Sports 
 car with a 4X4 Land Rover. Plus it add awesome physics with the trademark of your driver being 
 ejecting from the car without a helmet and being flung around like a rag doll and being ran over 
 by other cars. Also the mini games are sadistically superb with tones of laughs and worries.
  
  Multiplayer-What can I say it is just fun and a great laugh.
  
  Problems- The one thing 
 I will say is that it is just like the last two so if you still own these dont rush out and buy 
 this one because you will be having Deja vu.
  
  In conclusion if you werent some fun and have &pound;30 in your wallet, go and buy this game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fracot
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 8, 2007 3:30 am PT
Review:  Flatout: Ultimate Carnage is not your average racer. It is a great refreshment from the likes of 
 Forza 2 and DIRT. Its plainly just great fun, a game that you can just pick up and play anytime. 
 You dont have to gon on and carry on your career or get a certain time or position you can just 
 play for the fun of it! Which is what games are for arnt they? The point of F: U C is to basically 
 smash things up with powerful, cool cars. There are three things you can do, races, derbies and 
 stunts... derbies being my favourite. The graphics are great and the physics are great - its rare 
 you will come across something you cant smash or knock over! This game is also great fun with a 
 wireless steering wheel!
  
  I was a bit dissapointed with the amount of enviroments and cars - a few more cars and a couple 
 more enviroments would have enhanced an already great game.
  
  If you just want a fun racing game with no strings attached, this is the game for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: checampbell
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 5, 2007 11:36 pm PT
Review:  Honestly can't believe how well this holds up with how much is happening. Great visuals + steady 
 frame rate seems to be getting more rare these days ( developers more interested in screen shots 
 maybe ? )
  
  Game plays pretty good too. The AI is intelligent and aggressive, and with the boost option it 
 adds a stack to the gameplay mechanic.
  
  There are loads of race options and the mini games actually add to the title.
  
  The only small 
 gripe would be the sound, which while not dreadful, is pretty ordinary. Most vehicles pretty much 
 sound the same and perhaps because there are so many things being smashed sometimes sound a mess.
 
  
  Haven't tried the on-line mode and probably never will but still highly recommend this racer if 
 you're after a bit of fun ( remember what gaming used to be ? ) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: davidnoakes
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 5, 2007 3:49 pm PT
Review:  The Flatout series comes to the Xbox 360 console for the first time in the form of Flatout Ultimate 
 Carnage and what a great first attempt it is, Flatout Ultimate Carnage is a console conversion 
 done right!
  
  Flatout Ultimate Carnage for the xbox 360 is an updated version of Flatout 2 on the PC, although 
 this game is relatively similar to the PC version and resembles much of the same features it is 
 however new in many ways.
  
  The game comes with a catchy new title but thats not all, the graphics are one of the noticeable 
 big improvements in this game featuring sharper textures, more realistic vehicles, stunning environments, 
 life like physics and more. The vehicles are equally as good in quality as any other great racing 
 game on the xbox 360 but the plus side is that it includes a incredible damage model, the vehicle 
 can almost entirely be smashed up. The backgrounds and scenery match the graphical qualities of 
 the vehicle and include the same destructable feature. The rag doll physics of the game adds to 
 the dectruction factor, cars can be tossed around left, right and centre, when you crash into obstacles 
 the obstacles bounce realistically and collisions with other vehicles are convincing. Lighting 
 and reflections are yet another major improvement, the water was acceptable on Flatout 2 but in 
 Flatout Ultimate Carnage it is photo realistic along with impressive splashing effects. All this 
 amazingly doesn't come at a cost or compromise, the frame rate is silky smooth even during replays 
 so gameplay can't be interrupted and therefore gives you the full smashing experience.
  
  The sound blends well with the graphics, all of the necessary sounds you would expect are in this 
 game. The background music goes well with the theme of this game, as vehicles scrape against another 
 vehicle you can hear the crunching of the metal.
  
  Xbox live, with the added ingredient of the xbox live online capabilities players can play easily 
 against other Flatout fans across the xbox live system. Unlike the PC version you can earn achievements 
 which is an identity of how good you are and an incentive to play more, achievements also add to 
 replay value, Achievements encourage online play and competition which helps get more out of the 
 game.
  
  The pick up and play style of the game adds a lot of value to the game and will keep you coming 
 back, if you like racing in short bursts, thinking of trying a new game or just like plain fun 
 then look no further than Flatout Ultimate Carnage. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Howell123
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jul 4, 2007 5:33 am PT
Review:  If I had to pick one game that took an aspect of the racing genre and put in a little bit of a 
 aggressive and homicidal aedge to it would be the Burnout series... and Flatout: UC just takes 
 on this idea and makes it even more fun!
  
  Flatout: UC is a game where you have a ton of modes to choose from you have the Flatout mode a. k. a. 
 The campagin mode if you will , the Carnage mode which allows you to perform stunts and derby deathmatches 
 and... they just never get old!
  
  The Flatout mode starts you off with a choice you have a budget pick your car and race and there 
 are 3 different types of cars and levels to the mode. You have your derby cars cheap , durbale 
 just a good way of getting into the racing world, then you have the race cars which are pretty 
 self explanatroy and finnaly the Street cars the pumped up juiced up crazy zany cars that we all 
 want!
  
  During the races, you have a different tactic you either choose to take risks and shunt people 
 from behind (like burnout) or take the nice easy approach only taking risks when you want to and 
 shunting people if you need that little boost either way you will do fine and there maybe a little 
 few tweaks like the handling can sometimes get on your nerves and ofcourse the drivers becasue 
 they just suck basicallly!
  
  For the other part Carnage mode you go stage by stage performing stunts , having derby deatjmatches 
 and jsut ultimate CARNAGE!!!
  
  The online mode for Flatout: UC allows you to do any of the above! which is fantastic you can try 
 and do stunts against other gamers or derby deathmacth em UNTIL THEY ARE WRECKED!
  
  On the whole Flatout: UC by many has been seen as an attempt to try and mimick the Burnout series 
 just by making it a lot more complex... gamers trust me this game for a. aggresive driver............ YUP 
 this game is pretty much your taste! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rhousetec
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 2, 2007 2:15 pm PT
Review:  I bought this, thinking it would be a clone of the original Flatout Game on Xbox.
  I kinda liked it the first time on the xbox but traded it in after a while, as the game lacked 
 something. When I saw an xbox 360 version was coming out, I wasn't too bothered at first , but 
 still, I bought it last week . Wow, what a difference, its not just the graphics - somehow it plays 
 better, feels better. With the demolition derby events, I love the retro feel of going back to 
 the awesome Destruction derby on the PS1 too.
  The racing feels like Burnout Revenge, but more satisfying and less 'don't blink' intensity which 
 can get too much.
  The party games are a hoot, we were laughing for 1 1/2 hours solid on the basketball game. So, 
 Burnout, Destruction Derby and much better version of Fuzion Fenzy rolled into one.
  Good work - I love it ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: metalheadchesse
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 29, 2007 12:37 pm PT
Review:  This game delivers on all fronts: The graphics are amazing, and give some spectacular crashes, 
 the music in the game is superb with some really good tracks, and the races get to be pretty intense.
 
  
  The game's difficulty is pitched just right, and buying and upgrading cars really pays off, but 
 towards the end of Flatout mode, the games career mode, your really going to have to pull some 
 sick moves to get the gold.
  
  In addition to this, there is carnage mode, you get given a particular car, and must score as much 
 as possible in one of several different tasks, including Ragdoll stunts, beat the bomb, destruction 
 derbys and carnage races. The multiplayer is this game may not be the main focus, but there sure 
 is alot of fun to be had, especially with a bunch of friends.
  
  So overall this game realty stands out to be a great 360 racer, with no real strong bad points 
 at all, defiantly pick this one up if you liked either of the other Flatout games. And at &pound;30, 
 its a real bargain! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bonzaimaster
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 28, 2007 2:56 pm PT
Review:  Give Forza and Dirt a miss. This is the game to get! The handling is awesome, the graphics are 
 truly amazing (with no slowdown at all) and it's also got excellent support for the Microsoft Wireless 
 Wheel.
  The game modes are varied enough to keep it interesting for a long time. Online play also seemed 
 totally lag free. The only aspect of the game that could do with tweaking is the sound. The cars 
 dont sound meaty enough to me.
  I have only hope that this game does not get lost in the hype machine of Forza and Dirt. It deserves 
 to be played! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stuarthanley
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 27, 2007 3:50 am PT
Review:  I took a chance by purchasing this game as it was only &pound;29.99. WOW. What an amazing game. 
 It has the multiplayer that Colin Mcrae Dirt SHOULD have had, it wipes the floor with Burnout and 
 is a hell of a lot more fun than Forza 2. It works perfectly with the Wireless Wheel (Note to anyone 
 else producing racing games: THIS is how its done!)
  The AI is brilliant. The other racers actually try to ram you off the road and do not stick to 
 the usual fixed racing line like in Forza.
  The damage modelling on the cars is the best I've ever seen and to have literally (and I mean literally) 
 thousands of pieces of scenery bouncing around the track, obstructing your view or causing you 
 to take evasive action (and every piece remains on the track lap after lap!!!!) needs to be seen 
 to be believed.
  Anyone who is second-guessing themselves over purchasing this game. Dont hesitate. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: groove200
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 25, 2007 12:23 pm PT
Review:  This was fantastic on the original xbox but now with its new coat of paint and brilliant online 
 modes its a must buy for anybody who likes FUN in their games.
  
  I really have yet to see a driving game with better graphics than this , it even beats Motorstorm 
 in my books. The sheer amount of stuff going on on-screen , with 12 cars and 8000 destructable 
 objects on each map , without a hint of framerate problems or any tearing is truly breathtaking 
 and a programming masterpiece.
  
  The game modes are varied , from races , to destruction races where the aim is to score as high 
 as possible by crashing into everything , destruction derby bowls , olympic type games , beat the 
 bomb , the list goes on and on... and the best thing is they all come together perfectly in a neigh 
 on perfect online mode where everthing is customisable.
  
  Burnout , smurmout , this game beats that series into a cocked hat , and it deserves to be known 
 as the BEST destruction and fun driving game on any console. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shannow
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jun 24, 2007 9:46 am PT
Review:  If there is one genre that is not lacking on the 360 it's the motorsport one.
  Our bellies are bursting with Project Gothams, Forza, Dirt and Need For Speeds and here comes another 
 gut busting slice of break horsepower madness in the shape of Flatout Ultimate Carnage. This title 
 snuck on me like a special forces soldier, i had no idea of it's existence never mind a release 
 date.
  I'll keep this short and sharp, this game rocks.
  Game play is varied, mechanics are spot on, music is subject to appreciation and the visuals are 
 top drawer.
  I think this could be the bastard child of Burnout and Destruction Derby!
  Something that could hurt this tiltle is it's release date, coming so some after Forza and Dirt, 
 in Europe at least. aint going to do it much favours which would be an injustice.
  I urge all flag waving patriotic game players to rally to the cause and deliver this title the 
 success it so richly deserves.
  One criticism though, where the hell is the rumble? AWL 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Haz_4x4
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jun 24, 2007 7:21 am PT
Review:  I bought this game the second day it came out with my mate who also bought the game, not to mention 
 i have had my experience with flatout before i owned the first 1 on ps2 and loved it, thats why 
 when i heard that a new one was coming out for 360 i was already on my way looking on websites 
 for pics and videos, now onto the game where do i start,
  the awesome stunt modes are so fun such as royal flush and darts with the ragdoll good stuff
 
  the single player o. k not great but i would say its good.
  i would say that the online is the best part of this game you really get into and have a laugh 
 with everyone theres not arguments what so ever its all laid back fun especially in the destruction 
 derby bowls they are fantastic fun,
  this game has good graphics stupidly fun gameplay and class online
  fair does to empire and bug 
 bear they have really pulled this 1 off. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sycosi
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 23, 2007 12:58 pm PT
Review:  After playing and being utterly disappointed by, the yawnsome and over hyped and reviewed, Dirt 
 and dull Forza 2I wasn't to hopefully about another driving game.
  
  Well who wrong could I have been. When I first got Flatout and saw the trailers I had my doubts 
 that it was going to be a glitchy, sluggish framerated mess. Nothing could be further from the 
 truth!!! The graphics are well detailed, crisp and fluid even during the most chaotic clashes. 
 The cars handle really really well. The overall content of the game also has a huge amount of revisit 
 factor with the usual varied races and destruction derby's with added stuntman side games which 
 are really amusing.
  
  Overall this game is like a more playable and varied Burnout with better variety. This excellent 
 game is everything the godawful Full Auto 2 just wasn't. So if you loved Destruction Derby on the 
 Ps1 and want the next gen version get this!! Superb gameplay, great graphics, excellent online 
 gaming, loads of variety of game modes, excellent value for money and more!! Brilliant!! 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
